OF THE NAILS. 157 root'Si ' lts>al Hiiro,,, s transparencr rolonged bond ') to curve down. mis of the end of the nail is reflected under its inferior surface, and uunites with the free parts of this surface. On the sides, there exists P'ait^,. I pposteriorly a disposition similar to that which is observed at the ■ ' rroot, and anteriorly to what exists at the free extremity. The nails have no other connexions than those which have been ildescribed above. It is from not having correctly examined them, it'that some anatomists have admitted a connexion between them and jtlthe periosteum and tendons. 331. It has been admitted by some with Blancardi, that the nails are formed of agglutinated hairs. Others are of opinion that ithe nails result from the superposition of horny scales or lamina*, the outermost of which has the whole length of the nail, while the others successively diminish in length, which produces a successive increase of thickness in the nail from the root to the free extremity. These opinions however are rather modes of accounting for the for- rmation of the nails, than results of observation, which in fact dis- ccovers nothing in the nails but a horny substance, hard and dry Ijaat the exterior, and mucous at the interior. Neither vessels nor rnerves have been found in the nails. They consist of a thick and ilhhorny layer of the corpus mucosum of the skin. 332. The nails are transparent, flexible and elastic, they tear transversely notwithstanding their fibrous appearance in the oppo- ijssite direction. Their chemical properties are those of coagulated (lialbumen. They appear to contain also a little phosphate of lime. They have the greatest resemblance to horn, and are utterly des- titute of irritability and sensibility. The power of formation, or :the continual growth by a kind of vegetation, is the only organic ■ ™ tpam s thick, red and mderthe lunule, small id close lately to them. [ bod)' by the Mcosamfom v\uch is very | of the dermis toes, which are . dermis are ir- and vital phenomenon which is observed in them ; and even this ich receive (he' lPnenomenon *s foreign to them. The materials of their formation ; are continually secreted and execreted by the dermis. This matter ! applied to the adherent extremity and surface of the nail, like that i of the secretion of the silk-worm becoming concrete in proportion as iit is excreted, and being continually added to that which has pre- i ceded it, pushes it before it, and thus elongates the nail by jux- : taposition and not by intus-susception. It is therefore a true ex- < cretion, the materials of which once deposited, are never absorbed again. The nails, arm, support and protect the extremities of the fingers and toes. 333. The nails begin to appear about the middle of the fcetal life, and at birth are still very imperfect. In the coloured races, the colour is subjacent to the nail. In many animals, on the con- trary, the coloured layer of the corpus mucosum is confounded with the horny layer in the composition of the claws and analogous parts. The parts which most resemble the human nails are the claws of the carnivora, &c, which surround the dorsal surface and sides of the last phalanx, and curve towards the plantar surface; and the hoofs of the ruminantia, &c, which envelope the whole extremity of the last phalanx. The nails of the human feet some- times acquire a great development, and assume a curved direction, which makes them look like claws. receiving the I- There, in the* ntioer