OF ANIMALS. 19 mit to the parts which they sustain the motion which they have re- ceived from the muscles. In the vertebrate animals, the latter office is performed by articulated and mobile bones situated in their interior, and which for this purpose arc furnished with a great mass of muscles, which are wanting in the invertebrate ani- mals, or are attached to their hardened skin. 27. The organs of sensation, in the most simple animals, have ■no distinct existence, the whole body appearing to receive the im- pressions, as it executes the motions. In the animals which have an external skin and an internal skin, different from the rest of the mass, and all above the polypi are in this condition, the skin, be- sides absorbing nutritious matters, receives the impression of ex- : ternal bodies. In those which have the skin very soft and differ- ing little from the rest of the body, it is equally sensible in all its parts. But the skin which is moistened in many animals with mucous or sebaceous matter, is in a great number of them furnished with an epidermis, hairs, horny scales, or calcareous crust, and thus becomes an organ of defence or support. In this latter case, some parts remain destitute of these envelopes, are possessed of great mobility, and form particular organs of touch. Of this kind are the tentacula of the echini, those of the mollusca, the antennae of i insects, and Crustacea, the filaments of certain fishes, &c. The organ of taste does not occur distinct in all animals that di- gest, and yet the sensation seems to exist in all. Nothing is seen in the radiated animals at the entrance of the alimentary canal, that seems to constitute the organ in question. This is equally the case with respect to the mollusca and the articulate animals. In some insects, however, the extremity of the proboscis or palpus is supposed to be the organ of taste. Lastly, it is even far from being the case that all the vertebrate animals have a tongue or- ganized in such a manner as to render it proper for exercising this function. The organ of smell seems to be wanting in a great number of animals ; yet the insects, Crustacea, and arachnides are sensible to smells, although the precise seat of this sensation is unknown. This is also the case with the mollusca. In the vertebrate ani- mals themselves, the nasal fossae do not perforate the face in all the classes. The organ of hearing, or the ear, does not exist in the lower classes of animals, and sound appears to be perceived by them on- ly as an impression of touch. Of the articulated animals, all of which hear, the crabs are the only ones in which the ear has been perceived. In them it consists of a bag filled with a gelatinous lymph, receiving a distinct nerve. Among the mollusca, the ce- phalopoda are furnished with this organ, which exists in all the vertebrate animals, and in them presents numerous varieties. In all animals light exercises an action upon the whole skin and upon all the parts that are exposed to it, but vision takes place only by means of the eye. The radiated animals are destitute of