OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE Si layer varying in thickness, and extended over the whole body. It represents rounded masses in the orbit, in the substance of the cheeks, in the interior of the pelvis, on the fore part of the pubes, around the kidneys, &c. These masses are pyriform and pedicel- late, at the fore edge of the omentum, in the fatty appendages of the intestine, and at the level of the apertures which occur at the exterior of the peritoneum. In the omentum, the fat is disposed under the form of a network or of narrow bands which follow the course of the vessels. 156. Although the fat is not so generally distributed as the cel- lular tissue, it yet occurs in a great number of places. The vertebral canal contains a small quantity of it externally of tlie dura mater. In the head it exists plentifully, especially in the face, in the parotideal cavities, the cheeks, Sec. The neck presents more of it behind than before. In the thorax, the exteri- or and interior of that cavity presents a remarkable quantity of it, as well in the vicinity of the heart as between the pectoral muscles and around the mamma;. The fat of the abdomen is principally situated at the exterior of the kidneys, in the pelvis, in the substance of the mesentery, the omentum, and its appen- dages. In the extremities, the fat is more abundant opposite the joints, in the direction of the flexure, as well as in the places, which arc exposed to constant pressure, as the hips and the soles of the feet. The adipose tissue possesses a different arrangement in each par- ticular organ. That which lies under the skin always exists, un- less in cases of extreme emaciation, and is prolonged into the are- olae of the dermis ; we do not find any under the mucous mem- branes. The serous and synovial membranes are doubled, on the contrary, by this tissue, particularly in the substance of their folds ; the adipose tissue which surrounds the muscles, in like manner, penetrates into the substance of those which are divided into dis- tinct bundles, as the glutaeus maximus, &c. In the lobulated glands, it is observed in the intervals of the lobes. The sheaths- of the vessels generally contain very little of it. The great nerves, such as the ischiatic, contain small masses of it between their fibres. The fasciculated ligaments presents similar masses between their bundles. Lastly, in the bones, the fat is considered separately. 157- The fat is entirely wanting in certain parts, as under the skin of the skull, nose, ear, and chin, where the median line is en- tirely destitute of it. There is very little also between the skin and the platysma myoides. Scarcely any is to be seen- opposite the insertion of the deltoid muscle, which always causes a depres- sion at that part, even in the fattest subjects. This fluid is equal- ly wanting around the long and slender tendons, and in the inter- vals of the muscles which perform great motions, as between the triceps and rectus femoris anticus, the biceps and brachialis ami- cus, the gemelli and solcus. The substance of the viscera is gene- rally destitute of fat; there is none in the walls of the stomach or