OF ANIMALS. 11 N ner. priaci- eats of l» dis-. i Mil Iti by /me- te of T3- beei- punc- i fill- it of • ers be- a the ,e de- recur I the m . & being longer, the radiated form becomes cylindrical. The cylin- drical Echinodermata, the intestinal worms, and the Annelidcs ex- tihibit this transition of the radiated form, of which they still parti- cipate, to the symmetrical form and the articular arrangement, which they also present; and the Tunicata, the transition of the radiated form to the symmetrical form without articulation. The symmetrical form occurs, with some slight exceptions, in all j tithe other animals. In this form, the body is divided into two simi- I Uar lateral parts or sides, by a median plane ; but it is subdivided irinto two other very different parts. In the Mollusca, the body is unever divided into segments, and there are no articulated feet. 1 These animals are inarticulated. The other symmetrical animals, on the contrary, are articulate, in other words, their trunk is di- v vided into segments capable of moving upon each other, and their L limbs, when they have any, are divided into several parts by arti- tables. Jjcculations. The articular arrangement first occurs in the cirripeda, I * which in all respects belong to the mollusca. Its principle is also f found in the cylindrical echinodermata and in the vermes ; but this 1 kind of form belongs more especially to the annelides, insecta, crus- i tacea, and arachnides, which for this reason are called articulated animals, and to all the osseous or vertebrate animals. Thus the \ various forms exhibited in animals may all be referred to the follow- ing : the symmetrical or binary form, with or without articulations, i the radiated form, and the simple globular filamentary forms, &c. 17- The external form of animals presents other differences also. The body is divided into the trunk, a central part which contains the organs essential to life or the viscera; and the appendages, parts which are in general subservient to motion and sensation. The trunk is divided into the trunk proper or middle part, and the extremities, which are the head and the tail. The trunk itself is sometimes subdivided into the abdomen and thorax. The head is the part which, besides the mouth, contains the principal nervous ganglion, or brain, and the organs of the particular senses. The thorax, in the articular animals, is the part of the trunk to which the limbs are attached. In the vertebrate animals, it is the part which contains the heart and lungs. The abdomen always con- tains the principal organs of digestion and generation. These dif- ferent parts of the trunk, which do not always exist, present differ- ent varieties. In the radiated animals, the acephalous mollusca, and the intes- tinal worms and annelides, the trunk, which is reduced to its mid- dle part, consists of a single cavity which contains all the organs. In the cephalopodous mollusca there is a distinct head. This is also the case in the insecta, Crustacea and arachnides, which have more- over a thorax, sometimes distinct from the head and abdomen, and sometimes confounded with one or both these parts of the trunk. In the vertebrate animals the head is always distinct, but the tho- rax is sometimes confounded with the abdomen. The appendages also present numerous varieties. In some infusory animals, there