OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 113 : and foot, the forehead, the scrotum and the lips of the vulva. The i cdo^es of these areola are continuous, the first and largest, with the subcutaneous fibrous tissue; the second, with the more or less i dense cellular tissue; the last, or smallest, with the very loose tis- sue that exists in the regions in which it is observed. The areola itself is filled by an adipose cellular tissue, and traversed by the vessels and nerves of the skin. The bottom of these alveolar cavities i is perforated by very small apertures, which correspond to the exter- i nal surface of the skin. This surface, which is in general smooth, presents, in various places, small papillar eminences, which are much more distinct upon the denuded dermis, than when seen i through the epidermis. 298. The papillar body and vascular net-work of the skin, which have been improperly described as distinct layers of that i membrane, belong to the outer surface of the dermis, the papillae,* • which were discovered by Malpighi, admitted, figured, and de- i scribed afterwards by Ruysch, Albinus, and fmany other anato- i mists, and of late years by Gautier, under the name of granula- tions, and called in doubt by Cheselden and several others, are ' very small prominences on the surface of the dermis, generally of a i conical form, distinctly visible in the tongue, disposed in double 1 lines, and very perceptible in the palm of the hands, the sole of i the feet, and especially in the pulp of the fingers ; still distinct, 1 but irregularly distributed, in the glans, nipple, and labia ; but so i small and indistinct in the rest of the skin that they are rather ad- i mitted to exist there by analogy than actually observed, and are in i a manner blended in the surface of the dermis into a vascular and ineivous net-work. These papillae, in the places where they are very distinct, evidently consist of a projection of the dermis, which i is very soft, highly vascular, penetrated by numerous nervous fila- i ments, destitute of neurilemma, and of vascular ramuscules, hav- i ing there an erectile disposition which will be described in Chapter i IV. In the places where the papillae are less distinct, although i the composition and texture of the surface of the dermis may be l essentially the same, there are fewer nerves, and the vessels, which are very numerous, form a net-work. The blood constantly pe- i netrates, but in variable quantity, into the vessels of the surface of t the dermis. In ecchymoses of the skin, it goes farther, and is i infiltrated into the corpus mucosum. Delicate and penetrating in- fections, after filling the papillar and vascular bodies of the skin, ; also sometimes spread out beyond them.t 299- The texture of the dermis is that of an areolar web more or lless condensed. The fibre which forms it is peculiar to itself. It iwas considered by the older anatomists as intermediate between the i muscular fibre and the aponeurotic tissue. Some have pronounced * Iliitlzc de Papillis cutis toclui imcrvknlilus. Lugd. Eat. 1747- Albinus, dbad. Annul. l,ih. III. cap. ix. ct xii. ■f See Proehaska. IMsquhitio anal. phyt. organhmi, &c. Vienna;, 1812, 4to.