82 VIOLENCE OF OPERATION, PRODUCING ABSCESS. There are, however, other sources of injury besides the forceps. Such as I have seen, from that and other causes, with all the failures which have occurred within my observation, shall now be faithfully narrated. CASE I. Fatal abscess of the Pelvis, from a lacerated Bladder by the Forceps. A Sexagenarian from the country, tall, and very little worn in con- stitution by the presence of a large stone, which he had carried some years in his bladder, came under my care to have it removed. It was my maid- en operation, and I was surrounded by experienced friends. From repeat- ed examinations made in the rectum, and by sounding, it was evident that the stone was beyond a common size, and preparations were made accord- ingly ; the muscles were fairly and freely cut, and the prostate gland divi- ded by a full sized gorget. The stone-breaker was at hand. It was not difficult to lay hold of such a stone; the difficulty was in bringing it through its narrow channel with safety to the patient. I made gentle effi^rts in the proper direction, put my finger upon it between the blades of the forceps, in the rectum, and this examination assured me that it would never pass, without more force and laceration than was consistent with the patient's safety, and with my notions of the mode in which this operation should be performed. In vain was the opening into the bladder enlarged by the bis- toury, and a more powerful exertion made;—^the stone would not pass. I looked round for the stone-breaker, I begged that it might be handed to me. "My dear Sir," with a pinch on the elbow, " try again," was the reply on one side. I did so, reluctantly; another more powerful, though imsuccessful pull was the consequence, and again I entreated imploringly for the stone-breaker ; "Nonsense, don't be afraid, I have used ten times more force than you now do," was the answer from another side, (it was true, but his patients rarely survived;) one effort more, indeed, succeeded in bringing forth the stone, which was of the mulberry kind, and weighing about five ounces and a quarter, and after the patient had been upon the table three quarters of an hour. The last adviser was not a little proud of so speedy a proof of the soundness of his advice,—but he should have waited the result.