41 OBSERVATIONS ON THE TREATMENT. whole range of human acquirements; it is called upon in this particular ex- ample, of one perishing from food sticking in his throat, to shew itself, and come forth with such aids as the nature of the frightful case will permit to be employed. This very nature requires instruments, for the surgeon cannot escape from this trying example of his power, this touchstone of his skill, by consigning his patient to the tomb, " having done all he could" by pre- scribing the unfortunate being a dose of physic !! This is one of the cases that calls for instruments, for downright surgery—knowledge of the parts, —manual dexterity, and nothing else; physic here is altogether worthless, or nearly so, and may indeed be " given to the dogs," with as much propri- ety and utility as to the patient. This however, is speaking of medicine as a principal in the treatment of stricture generally, whether of the urethra, rectum, or oesophagus. It certainly cannot have any pretensions to so high a rank; but as an auxiliary, it may occasionally be useful. There may be cases, for example, of stricture of the esophagus, where around it may have been deposited great quantities of lymph, from an in- flammatory action of its vessels; a simple thickening, without any malig- nant character being annexed to it. In such a case, mercury, or other medical agents, may be useful in exciting the absorbents, in aiding the instrument, which, at one and the same moment, be it observed, may be employed in dilating, or destroying the stricture, and in exciting by its irritation, the neighbouring vessels, to remove the hard thickening in question. The treatment by instruments, that of dilatation or destruction, must ever be the cure of strictures, if cured at all. Medicines can have no power over structural derangements, like the bridle, or membranous obstructions. Ask the hospital surgeon, whether he ever thinks of medicine, in the great variety of strictures of the urethra, which fall under his treatment, and which he almost constantly cures ? It may be said that the case is different in the oesophagus. I do not see it. The extreme rarity of the real, or permanent stricture of the oeso- phagus, makes it impossible, from that cause, for us to draw our conclusions altogether, and with precision, from so confined a field of experience. But G