CAUTION REQUISITE IN BLEEDING CHILDREN. 92 cold, and somewhat torpid, with a very feeble pulse;—and from this state he never recovered, although cordials and opium were given to him. There was some, but very slight, tenderness of the abdomen on the following day; the patient was bled, and took opening medicine, and, of course, treated for peritonitis,-^but he died on the fourth day from the date of the operation. On inspecting the body, no signs of inflammation could be detected in the bladder or peritoneum,—^all was pale and healthy. The bladder was, indeed, thickened, but this must have been the work of times past. That this boy perished from the effect of a long continued and worry- ing operation upon his nervous system is sufficiently clear from the dissec- tion, and also from the circumstance that he never rallied, but remained cold, with the peculiar torpid and fatal heaviness upon him, which is seen when little children are sent into hospitals, with dreadful burns about the trunk of the body. The destruction of the power of the brain and nervous system, by the violence of the shock, is the cause of death in both instances. There is much variety of opinion as to the propriety of bleeding after lithotomy. Some practise it, and strongly recommend that it should be had recourse to upon the detection of any tenderness about the abdomen, notwithstanding a feeble pulse. There was certainly tenderness in this case. For my own part, and from experience it is stated, I should be slow of bleeding after lithotomy, whilst evidence of decided prostration of the ner- vous system remained, in the shape of languor, indifference to external ob- jects, sleepiness, and diminished temperature, even should some tenderness be present. Above all things, it is presumed, the surgeon should be cautious in bleeding children under these circumstances, and especially gentle in his treatment of them during operation. It is very true, that in lithotomy children do better than grown persons; more recover. But this is to be accounted for on the ground that the operation in them is comparatively nothing. The stone is always small, and the operation throughout is much easier and quicker to perform, and, therefore, the little patient has less to