46 SIMPLEST FORM OF THE FALLING OF THE BOWEL. kind,) by attending to the rule of encouraging the bleeding to occur, before the departure of the surgeon, or his assistant, when the vessel may be secured. Mr. Hey, and others too, who operated exactly after his manner, had occasionally inflammatory symptoms succeed the operation. This must have been the effect of cutting away without scruple, and often deeply and roughly, the little blue tumors at the verge of the anus, many of which Avere formed by the extremity of the anus itself. There is no occasion for this to be done; the gut ought not to be unnecessarily cut, and in this point Mr. Hey's operation may be improved. A deliberate dissection will always be capable of separating the loose skin which you require for excision, from the bowel itself, which should be tenderly and carefidly returned. Out of the fifty cases in which I have operated, I have not seen one where the ope- ration was followed by inflammatory symptoms, nor (with one exception,) Avhere it did not succeed in entirely curing the prolapsus. Prolapsus Ani is frequently combined with other affections. I will now take leave to give a case of its most simple form, and after- wards a few others to illustrate its varieties, or when in conjunction with other aflfections, some of which, it will be seen, were the true causes of the prolapsus itself. It is a subject, on which less has been written than its importance requires, and is, perhaps, less generally understood, than it de- serves to be. With this belief, I may be pardoned for recording a few of the more interesting examples out of my own experience, which has been considerable. CASE I. The simplest form of the falling of the Bowel. A Gentleman, about fifty years of age, when taking exercise in walking, would have the bowel descend to the extent of two or three inches beyond the verge of the anus, and also after a stool. Some bleeding would then take place from its surface, the effects of the squeezing of the sphinc- ters. The pain on these occasions was so intolerably severe, as to oblige him, even in the field, to lie down instantly upon his back, and reduce the protrusion, which he could always effect, by gentle pressure. The repeti-