DEATH, FROM AN ATTEMPT TO EXTRACT A SMALL STONE. 87 the bladder, he should desist from all violence, of a kind likely to bruise or tear—the stone should be relinquished, and an examination of the extent of the incision, already made, be carried into effect. These will then be en- larged, according to the circumstances, in those points where the stricture or bridling exists, or where the first incisions have been incomplete, or in- adequate to the size of the stone. After all, operators, in this difficult case of a large stone, are to be pitied,—it must either be extracted, or left behind,—the want of success is more the fault of the operation (when the lateral is chosen) than in a want of skill in the surgeon. CASE IV. Fatal case, from injuries to the Sladder, in aHempting to extract the remnant of a stone. This was a young man of eighteen years bf age, who had for some years been suffering from a stone in the bladder, and having made up his mind to have it removed, placed himself under the care of a good operating surgeon for that purpose. Nothing could be better than the style in which the operator reached the bladder, by his superficial and deep incisions; the prostate cut, (with the knife,) the forceps introduced, and the stone seized. Unluckily, it broke in the gripe of the instrument, and notwithstanding the means em- ployed, which lasted for a very long period, the fragment of stone was left in the bladder. A few days passed without developing any very bad symptoms, there were, indeed, some slight pains about his loins, and a little tenderness about the lower part of the abdomen, but not of a kind to require active treat- ment. Soon, however, irritative fever shewed itself,—he wasted, and died a fortnight after the operation. The difficulty of using the forceps, of catch- ing hold of the stone, in this case, probably arose from a portion of the bladder having contracted upon it; for the forceps would seize the point of the stone repeatedly, and as frequently slip from its hold. This contraction, however, did not subside, as it is said to do, after some time had elapsed, for the operation lasted nearly two hours without