40 OBSERVATIONS ON THE TREATMENT. After the stricture has been opened, or sufficiently broken up by the dilator, so as to require no force from a pointed bougie, this last mentioned instrument may be used as a mere dilator, to finish ; there being sufficient room left for its safe, that is, easy introduction. Should the patient be starving, and the process of dilatation slow, he may be nourished readily by the apparatus used in the second case, before described. The hollow tube will easily pass the stricture, of a size suffici- ent to inject through it liquid food into the stomach. Should nothing else be at hand, a hollow metallic bougie will do very well for this purpose. Curve the instrument to the shape of the throat, (having previously opened its extremity, by cutting holes on its side,) and adjust its mouth to the pipe of Weiss's syringe, and, having passed the stricture, the food may be pumped into the stomach. The cjuantity given should not exceed three ounces at a time, which may be repeated several times in a day. If more be given, the diminished power of the stomach will not be able to digest it, and its rejection will be equally certain. For its powers must be reduced in cases of stricture where the patient, for a long period, has been accustomed only to small quantities of food, and that perhaps chiefly of a liquid kind. Overloading the weak stomach therefore, in this particular case, should be most scrupulously avoided, for, should vomiting be excited, in the weakened condition of the patient, this act itself would be directly injurious; and fatal, should the spasm of the glottis be excited by the irritation of food brought back to the pharynx, whilst the patient was, perhaps, in a recum- bent position. It is very true that the treatment by instruments of the subject of the foregoing Note, is so difficult and perilous, that many of our most eminent surgeons decline their employment. But what is to be done ? or rather, are we to do nothing, but merely stand by the unfortunate patient, and witness, with calm and culpable indifference, his gradual approach to the grave for want of food, or rather the power of swallowing it; and this ina- bility too arising out of a mechanical obstruction in the tube, whose office it is to convey the food to the stomach! If surgery be an useful and a noble science, and surely it is at once the most solid and brilliant of the