20 REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. These phenomena are doubtless the effect of certain modifications of the nervous influence, the variety of which are as endless as the task of seeking out their explanation. The terms, irritability, morbid sensibility, &c. merely express the fact. In Takell, the bronchocele bore no marks of inflammation, yet it was exquisitely sensitive to the touch, producing spasm, but in a less degree than the leeches; the effects of the seton exceeded both. The treatment of the spasmodic stricture of the glottis consists in the speedy removal of its cause. If this is not done with decision and rapidity bronchotomy becomes necessary. In general the period of its duration is short, but should there be a regular difficulty of breathing independent of it, as from pressure on the larynx, or trachea, or from these canals being diminished, either by change of structure, or lymph occupying them, the danger of suffocation from the violent spasm is greatly increased. Where there is pressure, the surgeon should be on the alert, for this may both be the cause of the spasm itself, and increase its danger. In the example of the Hospital patient of whose disease is an annexed sketch, this was probably the case. (See Plate.) The pressure mechani- cally obstructed the air passage in some measure, but the spasm finally closed it in so rapid a manner as to leave no doubt of its operation. This case also will serve to shew that the surgeon ought not to be sa- tisfied with a visual examination, where the causes of great difficulty of breathing in affections of the throat remain undiscovered. The fauces may appear sound, and yet in the depth of the pharynx may be concealed the true cause of the mischief. The most minute and careful survey should be made with the hand and eye of the interior and exterior parts of the throat, in all cases where the source of the spasm is doubtful. The pharynx in an adult is about two inches and a half long, as mea- sured from the plane of the tongue, to the commencement of the oesopha- gus ; and nearly the whole of this portion of it may be explored with the finger, if the jaws are well fixed asunder by a proper speculum. The fore finger of the right hand introduced between the molares, as far back as the corner of the mouth (on its right side) will admit of, may command the whole cavity.