HEMORRHAGE AFTER OPERATION FOR THE PROLAPSUS ANI. 49 CASE II. Prolapsus Ani, with the power of the Sphincter extinct. The operation for which was followed hy a bleeding, which nearly proved fatal. The lady of a military man of rank, living at a fashionable watering place, consulted me, by the advice of her physician, for a falling down of the bowel of an immense size, and which was almost constantly prolap- sed, as even standing for a moment would effect its descent. The lady was old, and of a very relaxed habit. The protruded part was replaced easily, and the clenched fist would, with equal ease, have fol- lowed through a sphincter which had no trace of the power of contraction left. There was nothing unsound in the canal of the gut, nor stricture of it; which last affection I have seen to produce a protrusion of the lower part of the bowel. In this case, the cause was, probably, the long continued action of purgative medicines, in which injurious habit she had indulged for many years. There was very little of loose integument about the verge of the anus, and from this circumstance, together with the destruction of the power of the sphincter, there were but slight hopes of a cure, though there might be of some amendment, from an operation. I explained this to the husband, who, however, at the desire of the physician, wished that a trial might be made. Lodgings were procured, and it was done. Taking some points of slightly projecting skin for a guide, considerable portions were raised from the inner margin of the anus, so that a wound was left which nearly surrounded it; no bleeding then took place, and after a compress and bandage were applied, I left the patient in bed, under the care of a pupil, to attend particularly to any hemorrhage that might pro- bably ensue from so extensive a circumcision of skin. He remained with the patient for an hour, but unluckily, a feeling of false modesty prevented him from examining the bandages before he left. About two hours afterwards, I was sent for in haste—she was said to be bleeding to death. Though cautious in taking the necessary steps to prevent, secondary hemorrhage, yet was the surprise at the spectacle before H