FROM CYNANCHE TONSILLARIS. 9 glottis excited by the irritation of this pressure, that so suddenly closed life. Were it otherwise indeed, the case would not be of less value. It is however probable, that the current of air was greatly checked by the pres- sure of the tumor on the larynx, and with this belief it is easy to conceive, that the actions of the muscles of the glottis would more easily close the avenue to the lungs. The first of the following cases will shew suffocation produced by acute inflammation of the throat, in the form called Cynanche Tonsillaris, by exciting spasmodic stricture of the glottis ; and the second is a similar example, in which however the patient was saved by the decisive means employed. CASE V. Spasmodic stricture of the glottis, from Cynanche Tonsillaris. Mr. , of Ch n, in this county, aged about 40, had been ac- customed for years to inflammatory sore throats. In April, 1829, he was attacked by this affection, and for which he consulted his usual medi- cal attendant. He reports that there was general redness and swelling of the fauces, a difficult, and painful deglutition, with the general disturbance of the sys- tem called fever. There was no great difficulty of breathing, though it was noisy; as this process was carried on in a great degree through the nose. The treatment recommended by my friend Mr. was such as an intelligent practitioner would always direct, but which from some cau- ses unknown to me, were either never carried into effect at all, or very imperfectly. Unfortunately too, the patient lived in the country. He took some opening and saline medicines, which was the extent of the remedies to which he chose to submit. For two days he appeared to be doing as well as persons with sore throats usually do, but on the fourth, a sudden and convulsive difficulty of breathing came on, as he Avas sitting up in bed, and he fell backwards, in- stantly suffocated before assistance could be obtaiired. No inspection of the body took place. c