127 IN CONJUNCTION WITH A LARGE HYDROCELE. could not be felt. The tumour approached so near to the ring, that, had not the vessels of the spermatic cord been greatly enlarged, this part could scarcely have been detected emerging from it. It was much heavier altogether than a hydrocele of that size could be ; emitted nowhere any transparency, and was entirely devoid of pain, even when considerably squeezed. There was an obscure fluctuation when struck on its base, and its surface was traversed by numerous large veins, like to those which are found on the surface of large vascular tumours. The patient was perfectly healthy, and of a robust appearance. He said, that about eight years ago he first distinguished a small swelling on the scrotum, which came without injury, but he does not recollect whether it commenced from the bottom ; that, in four years, it grew to a size equal to the present, bore the same form, and possessed the same unyielding- firmness:—that about this period, he found one morning, on aw aking, that a great change had taken place in it,—that the upper portion had suddenly become soft, and, from a circumscribed swelling, had spread itself about the scrotum, and that there was a very considerable alteration in the colour of the skin. In time, however, the tumour again became firm, and of its present appearance. It was explained to the patient that there was probably a fluid in the upper portion of the tumour, and that by drawing this oflT, the other cir- cumstances of the case, which were unusual, would probably be revealed. About a pint and a half of coffee-coloured fluid escaped through tlie canula of a trochar, introduced with considerable difficulty a little above the transverse indentation, leaving the tumour about two-thirds of its ori- ginal size. A probe was now passed, which encountered a hard resisting substance at the bottom of this large cavity. To prove the nature of this, it was necessary to cut up freely the front of the scrotum, but this was done with unexpected difficulty, for the cellular membrane beneath it had become thickened to the extent of half an inch on all sides, forming the front parietes of this great cyst. From the bottom of this great cavity was turned out half-a-pint full of substance resembling coffee, and now became visible the smooth shining appearance of another tumour, against which the probe had struck.