7i PERITONITIS, FROM A BLOW, BINDING THE INTESTINE CASE IV. Peritoiiitis conjobied with Hernia, hut not produced by it. Henry Robbins, a stout young- man, on the thirtieth of December received a kick from a horse, on the right side of the belly; he vomited soon after, and was in constant pain from the time he received the blow to the period when I saw him, which was on the third day. He was bled very largely, (the blood cupped and buffed) and sent to the Hospital. He had stools on the fourth day, on which day, the pain continuing, with occa- sional vomiting, tension, and tenderness of the abdomen, he was again bled. On the sixth day his bowels acted well, under purgatives; he had occasional pain only, the tension was as much as ever, but he had not been sick. On this day it was observed that he had a scrotal hernia on the left side, the opposite one to the accident. This, he said, had been there for some time past, but that it disappeared when he lay down. The hernia was now incapable of reduction, and it became a question whether it was not the cause of all the symptoms, rather than the kick. I was called to a consultation. The tumour was of considerable size. It had descended low in the scrotum, and had a tense feel, was uniformly smooth in its surface, which latter circumstance led me to suspect that it could not be omental. I de- livered my opinion against the operation, and in favour of the symptoms being" produced by inflammation from the blow, on the following grounds; 1. That the symptoms immediately followed the infliction of the blow. 2. That if the symptoms proceeded from strangulated hernia, the pro- trusion must be either omentum, or the side only of an intestine; it could not be a circle, because the continuity of the canal was uninterrupted; now the part had not the feel or character of omentum, whilst the size and length of the protrusion prohibited the notion that it was the side only of an intestine. 3. That the firm feel of the protruded part, and the slight tenderness which it possessed, might arise from the peritoneal inflammation, or the effect of the blow having induced the inflammation of the intestines; that this inflammation would naturally affect the portion of the intestine within the