17 FROM PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION OF THE NECK. CASE XII. Spasm of the Glottis^ from Phlegmonous iiflammation on the external part of the neck. Elizabeth Ward, of Beaufort Ward, Gloucester Infirmary, a very fine young woman, was seized with a severe pain deep in the left side of the neck, about mid-way between the angle of the jaw. and the sternal extre- mity of the clavicle. The spot was exquisitely tender to the touch: there was a slight swelling, and the cicatrix of an abscess which formerly occupied the same point. She had not long endured the severity of the pain before her breathing became very difficult, in fits, with a whiffling or wheezing sound, and her voice was scarcely audible. Five dozen of leeches in two days to the throat, with general bleeding, and blistering, certainly relieved her, but not deci- dedly. On the third day she still breathed badly, though better; before the leeches were applied the fits of difficulty of breathing were more violent, it was now a more regular, though subdued, and moderate action. She swallowed with pain and difficulty. On the fifth day from the date of the attack, she says she heard something give way in her throat, and that afterwards she breathed, spoke, and swallowed better. From this time these symptoms vanished, though the inflammatory attack in the neck which preceded them, occupied in succession other parts of the body after- wards, as the chest, hips, and shoulder joints; in the knee it required the most severe and active treatment, to prevent suppuration. Additional Cases from enlarged Tonsils. CASE XIII. Garret Ward. Anne Golding has both tonsils enlarged, so as nearly to shut out from view the channel of the pharynx. The patients say, that frequently in the night, she jumps wildly from her bed, tossing her arms, breathing with a loud noise, and with great difficulty. In a very short time she will lie down again and go to sleep; indeed, sometimes she appears not to be awoke by the extraordinary movement she performs, but totally unconscious of it. At all events she soon awakes again to repeat the same actions. D