CHlRONie TUMOliB ON THE CHEEK FROM CARIOUS FANGS, 65 It is somewhat odd, that I should never have seen this chronic tumour opposite to any other teeth than the first molares of the lower jaw, out of many cases that have fallen under my notice, though doubtless it must oc- cur from the irritation of other teeth, as well as the first molares. The history of this affection will, on enquiry, be found to be this— the carious fang- excites some inflammation in the socket, which generally suppurates; the pressure of the matter induces the ulcerative process out- wardly, for its escape. But, during this process of painful irritation, that portion of the cheek which is immediately opposite the disturbance in the alveolar cavity, sympathizes slowly with it, and the chronic abscess, or tu- mour in question, is the consequence. The effect on the cheek may take place, from the irritation of the dis- eased tooth, before the inflammation in the socket has advanced to suppu- ration ; or this last may not happen at all, or so slightly as to escape the recollection of the patient. I will give one CASE. Anne Kirk (see sketch) had an ov?l kind of swelling on her left cheek, covering the lower jaw, which she said had been there for five months. It was a pale, greyish red elevation, in patches or projections, and very like the appearances of those frequent scrophulous abscesses on the neck of very feeble growth, which will burst in time, by a small opening oozing a little serum, but not wholly discharging their contents, so that the swelling is sustained. On putting aside the cheek, the crown of the first molar tooth in the lower jaw, just opposite the swelling, was observed to be missing; the heads of the fangs were visible, and there had been, about three months ago, (two months subsequent to the swelling of the cheek) a gum abscess, the little pouting mouth of which was also visible. Some very slight pain had been felt in the remains of the tooth, which were now extracted; the fangs had attached to them a portion of fungous growth. The patient was desired to sponge the swelling with salt water, and to take steel medicines, which advice arose out of a belief that this effect of a tooth irritation takes place mostly in strumous subjects. K