48 OPERATION AND AFTER TREATMENT. readily vary his movements. The gut was now brought down hy straining, with the folds of loose skin more apparent. It was replaced sufficiently to keep it clear of the knife, and a full sized rectum bougie passed a little way into its canal, but not so far as to carry back the folds of loose skin at all out of the view of the operator. The bougie of a full size is useful on this occasion, for as the patient should have to bear down, to bring the whole of the loose skin outside the anus, the gut would descend at the same mo- ment, were it not for the instrument, I selected five of these portions of integument, passing a thread though each, and drawing these in succession with some force along the bougie which kept the gut back, they were excised very close to the plane of the surrounding parts. The wound was well washed with cold water, the gut completely restored to its natural position, and an appropriate compress and bandage applied to support it there, as the tendency to its descent is always increased by the operation, until the excisions are contracted and healed. A pupil was left in attend- ance, to see that there was no hemorrhage, to which this operation is rather liable, and of which nearly a fatal example will be found in a succeeding case. In the evening the patient complained of violent pain. On exami- nation, the gut had descended in his attempt to pass air. The pain was doubtless the effect of the pressure of the sphincter. The gut was replaced with a globular compress fixed over the site of the anus, with an injunc- tion to the patient, to restrain his inclination to pass wind. It is better to keep the incised part quiet, for the purpose of healing firmly. To obtain this object, the patient should have no stool for some days, unless called for by inflammatory symptoms, which I never saw occur after the operation, although from the collection of air in the intestines, wan- dering pains about the belly will sometimes take place, and might be con- founded with inflammation, were it not that the usual signs of its existence are wanting. That the cut parts may be more completely undisturbed for some days after the operation, it is better to give no solid food for a day before it, and to clear the bowels well. The contraction of the anus in this case was so great in the healing of the incisions, as to be somewhat inconvenient in passing the stools. A bougie used occasionally remedied this, and the patient has been entirely cured for some years of his distressing complaint.