PRODUCING PERITONITIS. 83 The shock of the operation the hardy veteran sustained; its immediate danger passed away,—but he soon fell off, and ultimately sunk under irrita- tive fever, at the end of the fifth week from the date of the operation. The irritation was a large abscess in the cellular membrane, between the bladder and rectum, and which doubtless arose from the injury done to the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, which were in rags, or frin- ges, bedewed with pus. The result of the foregoing case was of service, though not to the patient. I became particularly cautious of committing the slightest violence beyond what was absolutely necessary, rather cutting- even the bladder, than allowing of any force in extracting the stone from it; and the effect was, that the next nineteen operations were successful ones. The stone, in this case, was too large to be removed with certain safety, though there would have been more chance of success with less violence. We may call for, as was done in the foregoing case, and then look at stone-breakers,—but to use them is, perhaps, quite a different matter. Mr. Earle's is the best. The lithrontrite appears to be inadmis- sible, from its want of power over large stones. CASE II. Fatal Peritonitis from a lacerated Bladder. My second, and ultimate loss, was a young man of twenty-two years of age, and who was a good subject for the operation, that is to say, that no tendency to organic disease could be detected in him. The following note, taken after the operation, will explain enough of the circumstances for the present purpose. "No man should cut for the stone when he is ill; the feeling of lassi- tude, weakness, and want of decision, will creep into the operation. A slight oversight in the design, or defect of vigour in the execution, are quite enough to give a fatal turn to its termination. To-day I was not sufficiently alert, the gorget was overlooked, it did not cut well close to tlie beak, nor was it broad enough for a large adult, so that the right side of the prostate was not completely divided. The muscles too, in the deep hol- low between the ischium and anus, were not sufficiently or decidedly cut,