ANOTHER, FROM A LONG SEARCH. 91 question, therefore, that sounding or ascertaining the presence of a stone in the bladder, by the surgeon and consulting surgeon, should be an act per- formed many days before the operation itself is executed, and that this pre- liminary measure, to any considerable extent, should never be allowed on the same day with the final operation. On the present occasion, a sharp dispute arose between the operating and the consulting surgeon, as to the propriety of cutting the patient, upon the strength of the fact, that a stone had been distinctly felt by the opera- ting surgeon, some days before the one on which the operation was to be performed. *' If," said the consulting surgeon, " it was there a few days before, it is there now." There could be no denying of this position, and yet the operating surgeon was right in refusing to cut this patient, without the consulting surgeon having satisfied himself also of the presence of a stone. In this particular case he was more than commonly right, in sav- ing, by his firmness, the operation from the discredit of a failure, but more especially, the unfortunate child from great additional punishment in an useless and terrible operation; for, as the remark and advice of the con- sulting surgeon was given subsequent to the sounding, the operation itself would have been, probably, both cruel and unavailing. CASE VI. Death, from continued violence in seeking for a small stone, after the Sladder was opened. A surgeon made his way very skilfully into the bladder of a little boy, in which a stone was distinctly felt, and he could, on the introduction of his finger, occasionally touch it. The forceps were introduced, with closed blades, and the point of the instrument every now and then would strike upon the stone, but when the blades were opened, and the surgeon endea- voured to grasp the stone, he found it constantly eluding their gripe, or slipping out of them. The operation continued in this way for nearly half an hour, the patient complaining greatly of how much he was hurt; but at length the forceps seized the stone securely, which was extracted with the utmost ease,—for its size was singularly small. The boy was put to bed, struck heavily by the operation,—he was