FUNGUS AFTER PUNCTURE. 131 thickened, and diseased. The ulceration of the scrotum, which began from the puncture, was very considerably enlarged, probably of the size of a crown piece, and out of this the fungus pullulated like a cauliflower, and overspread a great portion of the scrotum. "20th. The fungus was grown so large, and its discharge was so very offensive, that he consented to my proposal made some time since, to remove the disease as far as it extended. The whole of the scrotum on the diseased side, with part of the integuments of the penis, were removed. The testis and tunica albuginea were sound and not excised. The integuments were brought together after the operation, by sutures and sticking plaister, and in great part united by the first intention; but when the same was nearly healed, another fungus began to sprout, and continued enlarging until it had attained nearly the size of a new-born infant's head, and had the same kind of discharge as before. The loathsomeness of it, and the rapid decay of his strength, and flesh, made him submit to a second operation, when I took away the testicle, though it appeared sound, removed the spermatic cord as high as the ring, and also all the integuments and cellular substance, to the division in the tendon of the external oblique. This was done June 14th, and by the 26th of August the sore was perfectly cicatrized. Never- theless, on the 8th of October my attendence was required again,—another tumour, about the size of a filbert, appearing about the middle of the cica- trix, which was rather towards the bottom of the scrotum: I removed this on the 10th. When the wound occasioned by this operation was nearly healed, a fresh fungus sprouted out. This again increased rapidly. He could not be prevailed upon again to submit to the knife, but was persuaded to go to Bath, and place himself under an empiric, who promised him a cure by caustic. He suffered a great deal under his hands, the fungus as I heard repuUulating as fast as it was destroyed. "Sunk miserably in three or four months." Had the operation of castration been done at the time of the puncture, presuming the enguinal glands to be free, it is probable that the patient's life would have been preserved.