THE DA"NGERS OF THE BOUGIE. to speak with more precision, I believe that false passages from the ceso- phagus are made in one half the cases treated, and should this be true, whether abbreviation of life is not the consequence must be left to the con- sideration of the reader. To improve the treatment, by diminishing its danger, is the object of the present note, which proposes a new instrument to the profession, designed by the author, and executed with the usual ability of Mr. Weiss. But before describing the dilator for the oesophagus, it may be proper to consider, briefly, the character of this particular and important obstruc- tion of the passage of the food to the stomach. There are generally two kinds (it is not meant here to consider spasmodic affections of this tube) of the true, or firm stricture of the gullet. The first appears to be a contraction or puckering of the inner lining, very like what occurs so frequently in the mucous membrane of the urethra. There appears but little thickening in its neighbourhood, the contraction is formed of a mere transverse fold of the membrane itself at a particular point, leaving an aperture in the gullet, sometimes in the centre of its canal, and often close by the side of it, and the re- mainder of the tube blocked up. This may be called, therefore, the membranous stricture, but though of a slighter texture than another form of real stricture of this part, yet is it capable of resisting a bou- gie, and turning its point in a wrong direction, especially if the fold of the membrane constituting the stricture be thrown diagonally across the canal of the cEsophagus; for in this case the point of the already bent instrument will slide over the edge of the fold, and rest against the side of the tube itself. A little more force than usual now applied, and it passes quite through the substance of the oesophagus. The other form of firm stricture to which the gullet is liable, is a dense, cartilaginous thickening of its coats, which assumes a tumor-like character in the side of it, surrounding the canal more or less, according to the extent of the disease. It may be what it has been called, a schirrous stricture; but I have never seen the membranous septa intermingled with this substance when a section has been made through it, nor has it during life the symptoms of schirrus : neither have I seen this cartilaginous stricture conjoined with ulceration in the substance o^the oesophagus, as