107 HEMORRHAGE. CASE XII. Hemorrhage during and after Operation. Infirmary, April 14, 1818. In operating upon a healthy young man, the stone broke under the first gripe of the forceps. Half an hour was oc- cupied in extracting the pieces, which was done as gently as possible, some- times using the forceps, and then the scoop. During the whole period a con- derable hemorrhage was going on, and when the removal of the stone was accomplished, I looked after the vessel. It lay deep under the pubes, and certainly was of considerable size, as it bled rather profusely. Though it was apparently too deep for the perineal artery, yet it could not be the pu- dic itself, for the blood gushed from a point directly under the arch of the pubes, and of course far from the ischium. A large rectum bougie covered with oiled lint, held by an assistant, suppressed the bleeding. Seven hours after the operation, a rush of water forced out the instrument, which, it appears, was held improperly and slight- ly; the hemorrhage returned, and he lost, in a few minutes, about half-a- pint of blood. The instrument was replaced. It was removed on the third day, and nothing particular occurred until Sunday morning early, (sixth day from the operation,) when a profuse hemorrhage took place, by which the patient lost perhaps three pints of blood;—it ran through the bed, and the sheets and bedding were soaked in it. The instrument was again re- placed, and well supported in its position, but was removed ultimately on Monday, the following day, the man complaining of exquisite soreness in the part. No further return of the hemorrhage followed, and he was dis- charged cured. CASE XIII. Example of an irritable bladder, ascertained by the effects of sounding upon it; increased by rather more violence in operating than should have been alloived;—the residt,—abscesses in all possible directions. Case draicn by the Hospital pupil, C. P. " Charles Mathews, aged twelve years, admitted May 23rd, 1822, has been subject for many years to pains across the lower part of his abdomen, at the end of the penis before and immediately after making water, which will sometimes stop suddenly. There is a thick deposit of mucus in the bottom of the vessel into which he voids his urine, which is often tinged