OPERATION FOR IT. 47 tion of his sufferings in this way, for years, at last led him to his surgeon. By straining, as at stool, at my request, the gut was brought into view, in folds, forming a tumour about the size of a small lemon, surrounded at its base by several loose projections of purple looking integuments, which the gut, in its descent, had brought more completely into view than it could have been before such descent took place. He was now in dreadful pain; the bowel was of a dark red, or purple tone of colour, from the pressure of the surrounding sphincter. From this circumstance, together with the fact, that the bowel never descended on rising out of bed in the morning, and only after much straining at the water-closet, or in walking exercise, I sus- pected that this muscle was still strong, but not sufficiently so to prevent the gut passing through it. On reducing the prolapsed part, this was found to be the case. The sphincter, irritated by the protruded part, which had just re-ascended, still acted sharply upon my fingers, now engaged in an examination of the inte- rior of the gut. It was sound; neither could a stricture, which should be carefully sought for, be discovered. The smooth and natural feel of its canal indicated no other affection, and the anus now presented, on one side of it, only a small blue projection of integuments about half an inch in depth, whilst, during the descent, several elongated portions of a similar character surrounded it. I informed the patient, that there was no doubt of his being entirely cured by an operation, and explained to him that this object was to strengthen and assist the weakened sphincter, to restrain the bowel in its proper situation by a firm barrier; that from the circumstance of there being considerable power in that muscle, I thought that the mere removal of two or three folds of the loose skin, which appeared principally when the gut was down, would suffice, without the necessity of more extensive excisions of it, which are required when the power of the sphincter is more diminished. He consented to the operation. The day before, the bowels were well cleared, and he took no solid food, The patient lay with his belly upon an elevated table, the feet upon a raised footing, so as to bring the buttock sufficiently near to the eye of the operator, who should stand ; for in operations about the anus especially, the surgeon will find this position more convenient, in order that he may more