77 THE ADHESIVE PROCESS, FROM A BLOW. pable, from its adhesions, of being otherwise treated) would have saved life, at the expence of an artificial anus. Or, had the influence of the blow upon the rupture been clearly made out as a probable cause of the strangulation or obstruction, by inducing an inflammatory action of the intestinal canal, and thus increasing the difficul- ty of the circulation through the hernia, either by the adhesion of the bowel to the sac, (which would limit its own action,) or by filling it with secre- tion, and thus, again, by increasing the bulk of the hernia, increasing also the difiiculty of returning it into the belly;—it is not unlikely, that very early and vigorous means, local and general, employed to remove the inflamma- tion, might have saved the patient by preventing its effects. But as the case stood at the time of the patient's admission, it was too late to em- ploy these means, and nothing besides freeing the circulation of the bow els through the hernia, by some operation, could have had a chance of saving life. Had even the one actually practised, though not intended, been done earlier, the chance would have been still greater. CASE VI. Strangulated scrotal Hernia, with an encysted Hydrocele of the chord in front of it taken for the sac of the Hernia, with other atwmalous circumstances. After making his external incision very low on the tumour, the sur- geon thought, after some dissection, that he had reached the sac, and accordingly opened it in a cautious manner, when his belief was confirmed by the escape of a considerable quantity of serum from the cavity. This was slit up extensively—its parietes were very thick. The contents of this supposed sac appeared to be ccecum, for there lay, at the extremity of this last named resemblance, a part, which looked like the appendix vermiformis. Insuperable difficulties, however, at the neck of this supposed sac, in- terrupted the regular progress of the operation—the hernia could not be returned—the operator divided the tendon, and quitted his patient. Some time afterwards, in consequence of the symptoms of strangula- tion remaining in all their force, another examination was made of the parts concerned in the operation.