PERITONITIS, FROM A LACERATED BLADDER. 94 groove of the convexity of the staff. However, I resumed my knife, and divided the urethra and a very small portion of the prostate, and then the conductor passed with ease. The stone was readily laid hold of by the for- ceps, hut the resistance was so great, that it was not ivithout spending some time, and using much violence, that 1 could extract it. The man bled very profusely, immediately after the coming away of the stone. However, after his legs were untied, and his thighs brought to- gether, the hemorrhage very much diminished, and he was sent to bed. He complained immediately of great pain just above the pelvis. After he was put to bed an opiate was given to him. A very little weeping of blood from the wounds was observed. An hour after I left him I sent my pupil to examine if it continued. He brought me word, that there was a conti- nuance of the hemorrhage in an increased degree, and that the man was in great pain. I immediately went to him, and found him in the condition described. I perceived that the discharge, though thin, was not urinous, and, therefore, 1 concluded that it was chiefly the serum oozing from coa- gulating blood, and consequently that there was a considerable lodgment in the bladder. I gently dilated the wound, and had the mortification to find my opinion confirmed. I brought away a large quantity of coagulated blood. The poor man expressed a sense of great ease, but then the blood flowed most copiously through the external wound. I introduced my fin- ger covered with lint, and took other alike ineffectual means to restrain the hemorrhage. Dr. Cheston was so obliging as to lend me his assistance. I tried a cannula covered with lint dipped in astringent liquids, and a variety of methods, with little or no benefit. The man lost an immense quantity of blood. At length we left the wound to itself, and applying a solution of sal ammonia cold over the belly, and over the wound, and rags wetted in the same to the hypogastrium and between the thighs, the hemorrhage was entirely suppressed. The pain, however, continued. It increased during the night. The next morning his belly was sore, and somewhat tense. He was immoderately thirsty. He was sick, and troubled with frequent and feeble eructations. " He continued to grow worse and worse, and died on the fourth day. " On dissection there was a considerahle laceration of the bladder, in a variety of directions, though none of them extensive.