IRRITABLE BLADDER CARRIED INTO 108 with blood. On the twenty-fifth, he passed a small stone about the size of a pea, which he threw away without having shewn it to any person. (Mr. F. endeavoured to sound him on the day of his admission, but found some impediment.) The stone, he says, was of a brownish colour. For two days after this he continued tolerably free from pain, though not entirely; his water was also clearer, and he seldom experienced a sudden stopping of the stream whilst making it. The symptoms gradually returned; the water too deposited a thick sediment as before. June 4th. Mr. F. to-day passed a small sound, and distinctly (as did several of the bystanders,) felt a stone. No violence was used. During the evening of this day he was in considerable pain, attended with some tenderness of the belly. 5th. This morning the sediment was considerable at the bottom of the pot, and streaked with blood. The boy appears of a very irritable habit generally, like his bladder; it was with the utmost difficulty that the sound could be passed, on account of his violent struggles. Mr. F. ex- presses himself unwilling to undertake the operation, in consequence of the great irritability of the bladder, and the bloody discharge continued since the sounding. 7th. He has continued much the same, suffering greatly at times. He thinks he makes water at least twenty times during the twenty-four hours. July 3rd. The sounding has been again repeated, and the same severe symptoms have followed. The performance of the operation has been again deferred in consequence. 15th. The patient having lost the additional symptoms from the sounding, the operation was this day performed, after a declaration from Mr. F. that it was not a promising case. The transversalis perinsei was tied, in consequence of rather more than usual hemorrhage. The opening into the bladder was made by the gorget, but upon grasping the stone with the forceps, it was found that the open- ing was scarcely large enough to admit of its passage, but some violence, though little, was exerted, when this difficulty was overcome, and the stone extracted. It was of considerable size, of a soft, white, gritty nature, simi-