CURED BY THE ACUTE INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. 139 left, there is evidently a fluctuation, but it is not tender to the touch. It is probable this affection of the testis is a sympathetic one, derived from an injury done to the loins. In the summer of —, in wheeling a barrow, heavily loaded, down some steps, the machine was likely to get from his hands, and in a violent attempt to stop its rapid progress, he felt "a snap" close to his spine, just above the ilium;—it was so acute as nearly to induce fainting—followed the course of the spine of the ilium, and terminated in front of the abdomen. Some discharge of blood ensued, as he said, through the anus. It was about six months after the foregoing accident, that he distinguished his left testis to be much enlarged. It was not then painful, but became so in about five weeks after he first noticed the enlargement. The right gland then became aflfected, and painful in the same way. He received relief by the use of the bougie, and rest, as already mentioned. Two blisters are to be applied over the part of the back where the in- jury was received, and another upon the right testis. Feb. 11th. He has had more blisters, and there is an evident reduc- tion of the right testis." The man got tired, and left the Hospital. He became, however, as bad as ever, and was again under my care. The testes were both large, and he wanted them removed. In the left there was apparently a hydrocele, in addition to the enlarge- ment, as in Hyatt's case already described. He was treated in the same way. A slough was made with the potassa fusa of the size of half-a-crown, which was followed by an escape of fluid, inflauimation, fever and profuse suppuration. It, however, reduced not only the left gland to nearly its na- tural size, but the right was also diminished. The hole made by the slough, when the inflammation subsided, was filled with peas, and after a time the patient went home well satisfied ivith both his testicles, which he intended to leave behind him. Circumstances of course must be weighed by the surgeon, before he would copy so bold, and perhaps it may be thought, so rash a practice as