CONTENTS. Anomalies of Strangulated Hernia . . . . . 66 An Enterocele, with its sac contained in the sac of an Epiplocele, and behind these a Cystocele ......... 66 Strangulated Femoral Enterocele, with unusual adhesions to the Omentum . . 69 Strangulated, irreducible, congenital Hernia,—the Testicle distinguishable externally 71 Peritonitis conjoined with Hernia, but not produced by it . . . . 74 Strangidated Scrotal Hernia, produced by an injury from the patient's watch . 76 Strangulated Scrotal Hernia, with an encysted Hydrocele of the cord, &c. . . 77 On Failures in Lithotomy ....... 79 Fatal Abscess of the Pelvis, from a lacerated Bladder by the Forceps . . 82 Fatal Peritonitis from a lacerated Bladder ...... 83 Immediate Death from extraordinary Violence in the Use of the Forceps . . 84 Fatal Case, from Injuries done to the Bladder in extracting the remnant of a Stone 87 Death from sounding for a Stone ....... 89 Death from continued violence in seeking for a small Stone .... 91 Death from Peritonitis,—the effect of a lacerated Bladder, from Violence in Operation 93 Case of Peritonitis, from Violence in Operation,—from which the patient partly recovered, though he ultimately perished of Abscess of the Pelvis and Kidney . . 9o Case of Peritonitis, excited by long-continued attempts to find the Stone with the Staff before Operation : two Stones,—one sacculated; a piece left in that situation safely 101 Cystitis from sounding,—Hemorrhage during Operation,—Bladder full of Stone . 104 Second Operation for Stone on the foregoing patient ..... 105 Hemorrhage during and after Operation ...... 107 Sounding, upon an irritable Bladder, followed by Abscesses . . ... 107 Dilatation or Aneurism of the Posterior Aural Artery, accompanied with severe Neuralgic Symptoms; cured by Operation .... 112 Wound of the Radial Artery, as it passes under the Tendons of the Thumb . . 118 On a Chronic Encysted Tumour found near the Testis . . 121 Chronic encysted Tumour above the Testis ...... 124 Large chronic encysted Tumour in front of a large Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis 12G Fungus Hjematodes after Puncture ....... 130 Encysted Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord ...... 132 Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord, which was mistaken for a Rupture . . 133 Inflammation of the Testes,—often inducing Effusion, Abscess, and Fungus 136 Inflammation of the Testis cured by the acute inflammatory process . . . 137 Deformity from a Burn, where the Chin is bound to the Breast . . 141 Case of Imperforate Vagina . . ^ - ■ • 143