FAILURES IN LITHOTOMY. 80 should not be in a hurry; and this especially when he cuts with a knife a man with a fat, and a deep perineum. It is sufficiently difficult and in- convenient, in such a case, to manage, with precision, the movement of the knife, so that its cut shall be just what is wanted for room, and no more. But, in a hurry, and taking for granted a great deal, viz. that you have made the prostratic opening sufficiently large, without your finger, at such a distance, being exactly able to demonstrate the fact—it will at last be dis- covered, in attempting to extract the stone, that room is yet wanting, and then the neck of the bladder receives a fresh assault—more violence is ad- ded,—^the knife is resumed to touch and retouch,—till room enough be obtained. To avoid this, in such a case of a deep perineum, the superiority of the gorget is manifest, if of the requisite breadth and length for the subject. It reaches its object—makes a clean cut at once—sufficient to allow of the passage of nineteen stones out of twenty, without further violence being- necessary. If the Journals give correct reports of the mode of operating by the most eminent of the profession; the principle of non-violence is either not allowed, or if allowed, not always acted upon. Nay, further; it is scarcely defended; for one of the most experienced and successful of lithotomists is quoted as a person who disregarded, as unnecessary, this principle altoge- ther. To assist in doing away the lamentable and dangerous effects of such doctrine, the subsequent cases are chiefly recorded. For surely no fact is more unquestionable, none can be more important, or better worth remem- bering, than that it is to a rough, worrying, and violent method, that the greater number of failures, in this operation of lithotomy, are to be ascribed. The greater the violence, the sooner is the work of death accomplished. The nervous system, in some examples, shook to its foundation, will scarcely maintain its power over the frame sufficiently long to allow the sufferer to reach his bed. He dies at once, withered by the stroke. In others, this first danger being overcome, inflammation is excited in the peritoneum, bladder, or cellular membrane, between it and the rectum, and they perish soon of peritonitis, or more slowly through the irritative agency of suppuration.