11 FROM CHRONIC ENLARGED TONSILS. CASE VII. Spasm of the Glottis, from chronic enlargement of the tonsils, on ivhich acute itiflammation had supervened. Beaufort Ward, Infirmary, March 10. As I passed through this ward, the hard, noisy, and troubled breathing through the nose of a girl sleeping, struck my ear as resembling that which is heard when the air passage is en- cumbered with enlarged tonsils. I have said troubled, for as I approached her bed, she would suddenly spring up asleep from it, uttering a feeble cry of distress as if in fear of choking, and then quietly regain her pillow. " There is in this young girl's (Martha Hooper's) throat, a chronic en- largement of both tonsils, of an unusually large size ; they nearly block up the opening into the pharynx, as was done by acute inflammation in the former case. " "But here, also, is some active inflammation, which always attacks these enlarged tonsils whenever she takes cold: this is the case at present. "There is the induration of the chronic, (but there is also great tender- ness to the touch,) and the scarlet blush of the acute upon the whole of the fauces. She has pains in her neck, and around the back of her head, which are increased whenever she attempts to swallow. "She is hot, thirsty, and has a quickened pulse, "The patients say, that in the night she will suddenly start out of bed, and act and breathe in the most extravagant and alarming manner, her eyes appearing to start from her head, both hands working in the air, as in fighting, and her breathing accompanied by a singular sound. "She declares that this extraordinary difficulty of breathing never takes place, except under the present circumstances of the throat being in- flamed by cold, that it occurs only when she sleeps, though getting up will not always relieve it, for the fit has frequently lasted a full half-liour after she has risen. She is sixteen years old, and has never menstruated." Just as I had finished my note, my friend and colleague entered the ward where the patient was, and prescribed leeclies^to the outside of the neck, with some smart purgative medicine.