MR. HEY INVENTED THE EXTERIOR OPERATION. 44 reduction. The miserable patient, wasted by bleeding, and incapable of motion, (which increased all the evils,) was left in this disgusting and help- less state, with the bowel hanging from his body, for the remainder of his days. But Mr. Hey saw the magnitude of the evil, and projected an ingenious remedy. He took notice that the circumference of the anus did not always return to its natural smooth appearance, after the reduction of the bowel had been effected, in these cases of prolapsus, but that it was usually occu- pied by a thin pendulous flap of skin, or blueish tumour. He discovered, also, that in such cases the sphincter ani was in a state of relaxation. On these facts he planned his operation, which has been the foundation at least of much improvement in the surgery of the anus. "The relaxed state of the part," says this excellent surgeon, "which came down at every evacua- tion, and the want of sufficient stricture in the sphincter ani, satisfied me that it was impossible to afford any effectual relief to my patient, unless I could bring about a more firm adhesion to the surrounding cellular mem- brane, and increase the proper action of the sphincter. Nothing seemed to me so likely to effect these purposes as the removal of the pendulous flap, and the other protuberances which surrounded the anus. I hoped that the inflammation caused by this operation would produce a more firm adhesion of the rectum to the surrounding cellular substance ; and I could not doubt that the circular wound would bring on a greater stricture in the sphinc- ter ani." This operation succeeded. It may be modified according to circum- stances, but the principle is undoubtedly Mr. Hey's. By way of distinction, I will take leave to call it the Exterior Operation for the cure of the prolap- sus ani of adults, in opposition to another mode, which acts upon the gut itself. This last may be denominated the Interior Operation for curing the prolapsus ani, and I believe that Mr. Copeland is entitled to the merit of its invention. The bladder and bowels having been emptied, the patient is desired to make efforts, to protrude the inner membrane of the bowel, which precedes the prolapsus. The surgeon now examines the prolapsed part, and selects a point or two of the inner fold which looks redder than others, and may perhaps bleed. This fold is drawn out by an assistant with a tenaculum, on the full stretch, and around the root of it the surgeon casts