OPERATION FOR PROLAPSUS ANI. 55 suffering for some time previous to it. Very slight febrile symptoms have come on, and no inflammation, except at the part which she keeps wet with the ward lotion. She describes the pain which she experiences as an ach- ing and burning sensation. There has been no descent of the gut, nor any feeling like it, since the operation. 2nd. This evening she expressed a great wish to take some aperient medicine, on account of a pain, and burning sensation, which she thought would be removed by relieving her bowels. Ordered, Olpi Ricini Joz. 3rd. The nurse having given her a much larger dose than was order- ed, it has operated violently, producing six stools, with great pain, but no descent of the gut has taken place. 4th. To day she expresses herself as being quite comfortable. 8th. Having had no stool since the third, she took an aperient draught last night, which has operated well, without giving her much pain. She appears much better than before the operation, and says she has not been for a length of time so free from pain, as since the operation. She goes about the ward commonly, and did not keep her bed strictly, for more than three days after the operation. Discharged cured. On examining the parts prior to this woman's discharge, there was a very slight appearance of the gut, when she strained, on the side of the anus where the bit of loose skin had been left; but which Mr. F. said was of no consequence, and would disappear as the wounded part became firmer.' The three following cases will shew the necessity of ascertaining, as far as can be done, the causes of prolapsus ani, before its radical cure by operation be attempted, and especially of examining the whole of the rec- tum, to make out whether a stricture exist in any part of it. To be content with an examination to the mere extent of the finger, is inadequate, and improper. A bougie should be passed its whole length, adapted, by bending it in warm water, to the curves of the gut. A stric- ture in it will be seen to be capable of protruding the extremity of the bowel, by the great efforts it causes the patient to make, to obtain an evacuation; a fact which I do not remember to have seen recorded, as among the causes of the falling down of the gut.