FORCEPS KILLING THE PATIENT OUTRIGHT, 84 SO that a straitened channel was left for the exit of the stone. Both these original errors were amended, though feebly and inefficiently,—illness was at the bottom of it,—the division of the right side of the prostate was com- pleted, and the bridles of muscles touched with the knife. These subse- quent corrections were not enough to prevent more violence being done than should be permitted in this operation. It was ten minutes before the stone was extracted; and though I have seen infinitely more rough exertion em- ployed, without harm in the result, yet do I fear for this poor fellow," The weight of the stone was four ounces. This patient died of peritoneal inflammation five days after the opera- tion, in spite of the most early attention, and vigorous means employed to subdue it. The angle of the left division of the right side of the prostate gland was torn, proving that its division by the gorget had not been quite accom- plished. Some pus occupied the cellular membrane in its neighbourhood, and the small intestines were glued together by active peritoneal inflamma- tion, which pervaded the whole cavity of the abdomen. This man, possibly, might have been saved, had the incision of the prostate and bladder been made more free for the passage of the stone, instead of wrenching it from its bed by the forceps; although, when stones arrive at a large size, there must be some doubt about the result, should the lateral operation be performed. CASE III. Immediate death from extraordinary violence in the use of the Forceps. The spectator in an operation room must always feel more than the operator himself, who is busy with his work, and, indeed, who should see nothing else but that this is well done. A healthy, middle-aged looking man walked into the operation room, with a cheerful, and somewhat of a bravado manner, to be cut for the stone. Without any assistance, he mounted the table, and offered his hands and feet to be tied, with the air and countenance of one entering the prize- ring, and whose mind had a full determination to win the fight or perish.