DIAGNOSIS. 128 This was the tunica vaginalis, containing the true hydrocele, but with a singularly hard feel. A lancet was buried in it more than half an inch, before the fluid was reached, which then, with great force, jetted through the thickened membrane in a full stream across the room. A bistoury enlarged the opening in this rough texture with difficulty, and from its upper por- tion I raised a piece which was full three quarters of an inch thick. Some notion, indeed, may be formed of the change this tmiic had undergone, from the fact that four arteries were tied from its cut sides. The testicle was sound. About two pints of water escaped from its tunic. A piece of oiled lint was laid in the large opening made by the removal of the piece already men- tioned. On the third day considerable inflammation supervened; on the fourth the tumour had arrived at half its original size, and he complained of great pain in his back, and fever; but in a few more days these symptoms were reduced in the ordinary way, and on the fourteenth, the tumour having greatly subsided, the state of the part was examined. The tunica vaginalis was adherent in most points to the testis, but was everywhere still full three quarters of an inch thick. The cyst in front of it had nowhere closed, and from it was pressed a considerable quantity of pus. On the twenty-fourth day from the operation, the cyst, showing no disposition to close, was injected with a solution of sulphate of zinc. The tunica vaginalis was much thinner. Thirty-seventh day,—the injection had failed to close the cyst, and a large seton was passed through it, but ultimately, great thickening of the scrotum having taken place over the se- ton, it was withdrawn, and its hollow residence opened with a bistoury. The finger being passed over the surface of the remaining cavity, discover- ed that the thickening of its side was rapidly passing away; and, in seven weeks from the operation, I took leave of this patient, who remains perfect- ly well. The circumstance of this tumour having long existed without pain, and having an indentation across its centre, that it had fluctuation, though obscure, made it look like a hydrocele of some sort; but, then, its great weight, and almost incompressible firmness,—produced by the thickened sides of the cyst and tunic,—but more especially the enormous veins, were