EXAMPLE OF A LARGE ENCYSTED TUMOUR. 126 that organ, as seen in the upper tumour? It was uniformly too smooth, and the pain unlike that of scirrhus,—it had not the rapid growth, size, or shape of the hydatid testis,—it did not accord with the local or constitutio- nal character of fungous hsematodes, or with the hydro-sarcocele, which it was ingeniously supposed to be, with the water at the bottom of the testis instead of the front; but to those who believed the tumour at the bottom to be the testis, the difficulties disappeared, and the diagnosis was simple. This belief was very fairly founded upon the greater degree of sensibi- lity it possessed over that of the neighbouring parts, and the peculiar kind of it. Assuredly, the testis, in this case, did not assume the distinct form observable in the encysted hydrocele of the cord, nor did the chronic tu- mour itself resemble that affection,—so that the diagnosis, though not diffi- cult to clear out, by attention and repeated examination, yet was it suffici- ently so, at first sight, as to deceive very intelligent observers. CASE II. Lai'ge chronic encysted Tumour, in front of a large Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis, with an immensely thick tunic. Mr. , of Longhope, consulted me on account of an immense tu- mour of the left side of the scrotum, for which he had undergone a variety of treatment, under different medical practitioners. It was as big as a human head, globular, and without having anything of the pyramidal shape, the transparency and lightness of an ordinary hydrocele. It rose knobby, though smooth, and bulging towards the abdominal ring, and its inferior portion bore the same projecting character,—but between these two projections there was an indentation passing across the tumour, about its middle. The two masses were nearly of an equal size, and were both hard to the touch, but the inferior was clearly the hardest. This irregularity, or comparative hardness of surface, to a cursory observer might, at first sight, look like the character of fungus hsematodis; but a more careful manipulation could trace the hardness to extend over the whole surface of the lower mass, whilst in the upper mass a comparative softness pervaded vmiformly its entire extent, leaving no alternate points of hard and soft in either tumour, as is seen in fungus haematodis. The testis