104 CYSTITIS FROM SOUNDING. CASE X. Cystitis from sounding. Hemorrhage during Operation, bladder full of stone. From the case book of Mr. R. Fletcher, Jun. "Charles Pride, aged 50, was admitted into the Gloucester Infirmary, with the usual symptoms of stone in the bladder, and, upon being sounded, a stone was discovered. His bladder was so exceedingly irritable, that each time after sounding, which was twice done, he complained of great pain in the lower part of his belly, with tenderness of it, and vomited repeatedly, and his urine deposited an unusual quantity of mucus: so far did this go, that both times he was obliged to be freely leeched, put in the warm bath, and purged. On account of this great inflammatory irritability of bladder, Mr. F. did not think it right to encourage him with much hope from an operation; but, at the patient's own request, he performed it. Af- ter cutting into the bladder, Mr. F. discovered with his finger, that there were two very large stones in it. There appeared to be no room for the forceps, and, from the size of the stones, it was deemed necessary to enlarge the opening in the bladder more than is usually done. Luckily, both the stones broke under the forceps, and were extracted by means of that in- strument and the scoop, in somewhat less than half an hour. Their weight was about six ounces. One other circumstance may be noted in this operation; the transverse perineal artery bled so profusely, that, from the size of the stream, it might have been mistaken for the pudic itself. It must have bled nearly a quart during the operation. It was tied, but, being in the track of the operation, the ligature soon slipped off, and the operation was continued without re- garding it. From this cause, and the length of the operation, the man be- came low, and cold, and required some brandy. During that evening he was comfortable. Early the next morning he began to vomit high- coloured green matter, but was in no pain, except what was occasioned by straining to vomit, in the lower part of his belly, and wound. His bowels not being open, he was ordered a powder of Pulv. Rhei, gr. viij. and Pulv. Zingib. gr. v. with an effervescing draught. On seeing him in the after- noon, it appeared that he had thrown up the powder, and could keep no- thing on his stomach; another was ordered, but that he also rejected. An