CONTENTS. On the Sources of the Spasm of the Glottis . . . . 1 Fatal Spasm of the Glottis from an Ulcer in the OEsophagus .... 2 Fatal Spasm of the Glottis from Bronchocele ..... 5 Spasmodic Stricture of the Glottis, from the irritation of a strumous Abscess . . 6 Fatal Spasm of the Glottis, from a chronic Abscess of the Pharynx ... 8 Spasmodic Stricture of the Glottis, from Cynanche Tonsillaris ... 9 Cynanche Tonsillaris, with Abscess, exciting Spasm of the Glottis ... 10 Spasm of the Glottis, from chronic enlargement of the Tonsils, on which acute inflamma- tion had supervened . . . . . . . .11 Suffocation from a Venereal Ulcer in the Throat, exciting the Glottis . . 12 Violent Spasm of the Glottis, from Phlegmonous Inflammation of the Neck . 13 Spasmodic Stricture of the Glottis, from a small irritable Bronchocele . . 15 Spasmodic Stricture of the Glottis, from Laryngitis • . . . .15 Spasm of the Glottis, from Phlegmonous Inflammation on the external part of the Neck 17 Additional Cases from enlarged Tonsils ...... 17 Spasm of the Glottis, from the irritation of an elongated Uvula ... 18 On Strictures of the CEsophagus, and the Dangers of the Bougie . 2(} Membranous Stricture. Death from a False Passage made by the Bougie . . 29 Firm Cartilaginous Stricture . . . . . . . .31 Death accelerated from a false passage made by the Bougie through the Pharynx . 38 On the Falling Down of the Bowel in Grown Persons ... 43 The simplest form of the Falling of the Bowel ..... 40 Prolapsus Ani, with the power of the Sphincter extinct. The Operation for which was followed by a Bleeding, which nearly proved fatal . . . . 49 Prolapsus Ani, irreducible from the extensive Adhesion to the surrounding- Skin of the Anus. Cured by operation ....... 51 Prolapsus Ani, with Adhesion of the Gut to a portion of the Skin, forming a Tumour 62 Prolapsus Ani of long standing, a Tumour suspended from the inner margin of the Anus 53 Prolapsus Ani, conjoined with Stricture of the Rectum, which produced it . . 6(> Prolapsus Ani, with Stricture of the Rectum, which produced it . . .58 Similar Case,—cured for a time by Operation; but the Stricture having been overlooked, a Procidentia followed, with Fistula in Ano ..... 60 Prolapsus Ani, from Stricture of the Rectum . . . . .61 Chronic Abscess on the CHEEii, from the irritation of a Carious Fang . 64