7 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE GLOTTIS. I examined the fauces carefully; there were slight appearances of mu- cus or lymph, studding them, but no swelling or inflammation of the ton- sils, uvula, or in the pharynx: as far as I could see, all these parts had a natural appearance. As the father stated the spasm to have lasted but a very short time, I contented myself with blistering the front of the neck, and ordering some rhubarb and quinine, as vestiges of stuma were visible in the remains of abscesses in the knee and side of the spine; and finally, that he would keep a person to run to me, should the spasm return. The boy had a most emaciated appearance. From the generally stru- mous character, I was led to suspect an ulcer of the larynx. Jan. 10, " This miserable looking little boy is again before me. He yet breathes with a wheezing and ringing sound, and his voice is hoarse; but there has been no violent attack, or difficulty of breathing since I last saw him. " His neck in a line with the thyroid cartilage, has considerable fullness and tenderness to the touch, and in turning it round for examination, he complains of great pain, especially in bending it backwards. " His fauces on a first view still look sound, but in keeping the tongue well down, I think I see a small swelling by the side of the spine, on the back of the pharynx, which leads me to pass my finger deep in the throat. " The whole of the lower portion of the pharynx, appears as far as I can reach, to be filled by a soft swelling, and I do not hesitate to believe that this is a scrofulous abscess, of the same kind as those which have already occurred on the outside the spine, and leg. "With a little difficulty a view is obtained, and the abscess opened, which immediately fills the boy's mouth with the thin and imperfect pus, that characterizes the contents of this kind of suppuration. " From this time, and for about a day, his breathing was almost natural. " March 16. Last night the difficulty of breathing was so great, and spasmodic, as induced his father to bring him to me to day. The abscess deep in the pharynx has re-filled. It is again opened, and a tea cup full of bad pus escapes. The relief to the breathing is complete and in- stantaneous. "