4 SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS. The following cases, are examples of this spasmodic affection of the glottis, some of which ended fatally, whilst others recovered, upon the removal of the particular irritations which produced it. That those who survived, had the same affection as those who perished, can only be infer- red from the fact, that their symptoms were precisely alike. From the fatal cases sufHcient evidence is adduced, and quite as much as the nature of the subject will admit of, that suffocation did not take place from ob- structions acting within, or from without the windpipe, though occasion- ally these causes may co-operate with the spasm, and perhaps of themselves be capable of bringing about the fatal event. But practically it is of little consequence how this may be, the object of the cases being to shew, in addition to what is already known on the subject, that so dangerous a spasm does exist, may arise from many irritations, and that we cannot be too diligent in tracing their sources, or decisive in destroying their fatal power. CASE I. Fatal Spasm of the Glottis, from an Ulcer in the Oesophagus. The following note was taken, on the admission of the patient, into the General Hospital at Gloucester. *' Abigail Tarret, aged 18, has complained for some weeks past, of a pricking pain and difficulty in swallowing, and of late she says her breath- ing is become difficult, especially at times. She has a constant pain in her throat, neck, and side of her head. There is some swelling, with hardness and rigidity of the muscles of the neck, and lymphatic glands. Pulse M eak and slow. She can swallow no solids, liquids pass with great diffi- culty, and in small quantities at a time. She is greatly annoyed by large quantities of mucus in her throat, which she spits out with difficulty. The least movement of her head is intolerable. " The treatment need not be par- ticularized. In about a month after her admission, she died suddenly; her breathing having previously become alarmingly serious. The only morbid appearance to be found on dissection, was a large ulcer in the CESophagus, about an inch below the situation of the cricoid cartilage. The larynx was free from all disease.