THE LINING OF THE BLADDER PRONE TO INFLAME. 89 Nothing can be more dangerous than rubbing, or perhaps pinching the bladder, for an hour or two, with the blades of the forceps. Leaving the stone to its chance of a natural exit, had we sufficient moral courage to do so, would be incomparably preferable to this treatment. On the whole, therefore, and in a case similar to the foregoing, I should prefer relinquishing the fragment of stone, rather than continue a violent irritation in searching it out, or in vain attempts to pluck it from the spasmodic grasp of the bladder. There is an evil to be apprehended in both practices, but the least in that which requires the least violence. The spasm of the bladder, which holds the stone, may subside; and in such a case, the stone might be expected to offer itself at the external opening. The spasm, indeed, is more likely to yield after the teazing of the bladder has been withdrawn, by a cessation of all further attempts. This was certainly the case in the foregoing example. As long as the excite- ment from the operation lasted, so did the spasm which held the stone. It is, indeed, a law of all spasmodic actions, that they last not long if their source be removed; and this would seem to be an additional argument for leaving a fragment of stone in the bladder, at least for a time, under the circumstances already described. That the mucous lining of the bladder is prone to inflammation, to a degree that can not be sufficiently impressed upon the mind of tlie surgeon, is clear, from the following interesting case, which is an additi- onal proof of the caution and gentleness required in the treatment of this viscus. CASE V. Death, from sounding for a Stone. A very engaging little boy, of six years of age, was brought to a Hos- pital, with symptoms of stone in the bladder. He was sounded twice by the receiving surgeon, who satisfied himself, on both occasions, of the ex- istence of a stone. A day was fixed for removing it, and a large party of medical practi- tioners were assembled, to view the operation. The boy was placed in position, tied, and the sound introduced; but the operating surgeon could N