THE OMENTUM CUT AWAY WITHOUT INFl,AMMATION, 73 Portions, discoloured and indurated, were removed by the knife, and as the back part of the sac became exposed, a substance was discovered, looking like intestine. It was the spermatic cord, with its vessels very large and varicose. The operator now endeavoured to return the re- mainder of the intestine into the belly, but its bulk was still so great, that he failed in his attempt to pass it through the ring. Being unwilling, as he said, to enlarge the opening, that the patient might be better secured from the risk of a future descent, he now preferred cutting away the whole omentum, excepting, indeed, a very small portion of it, which slipped into the belly. During the attempt to reduce the protruded part, the patient com- plained of severe pain. The wound was closed Avith stitches. On the fol- lowing day there was pain in the belly, and some fever. The upper stitches were cut, and he took opening medicine, which acted. For many days his pulse was 120—he complained of some soreness and pain along the chord. When the wound had nearly closed he spoke of pain and ten- derness also in the iliac region, and some swelling and hardness were certainly to be felt there, which disappeared altogether on his being leech- ed and purged. Discharged cured. The case is interesting, from the testis being found so readily behind the protrusion, which writers on this subject say cannot be done—from the circumstance of the spermatic chord being enlarged as to look like intes- tine, which, to a young operator, might have been embarrassing^—from the extraordinary strength, size, and extent of the bands of adhesion of the omentum, which last was cut from the sac—and from the very extensive dis- section and rough usage of the parts not being followed by any considerable inflammation — of which this case is a second example. For it is very probable, that the pain and tenderness near the iliac region, some days subsequent to the operation, was from a piece of omentum in a state of inflammation from another cause; viz. — it regained the abdomen, with rather a large ligature placed, somewhat roughly, upon one of its divided vessels, and the end of which was left out of the wound. L