78 ENCYSTED HYDROCELE IN FRONT OF A HERNIA. It was discovered that the substance which appeared to be the vermi- form appendix of the ccECum, was the testis, with its vessels, very much dwindled in size, and which lay at the extremity of the hernial sac in such a way as to make it appear like the ccecum itself. The hernial sac, therefore, was yet to be opened, which was accord- ingly done—the tendon cut again, and the hernia, which was a portion of the ilium, returned. The patient recovered. The perplexing and irregular circumstances of the foregoing case arose out of the novelty of an encysted hydrocele of the chord being found in front of the hernia, without the chord itself occupying that situation. The hernia, in descending through the loose cellular membrane between the chord and the cremaster muscle, had condensed some watery cysts against the latter, in such a manner, that a complete encysted hydrocele was the result, containing about two table-spoonfuls of a serous fluid; the escape of which had deceived the operator into a belief that he had opened the true hernial sac. The cremaster muscle, with the condensed cellular texture, formed a very thick and strong front to this watery tumour, which was moulded thinly by an old hernia over its own front, so as not to disturb its smooth convex cha- racter. This latter circumstance, together with the immobility of the whole tumour, composed, as it was, of two distinct parts, which it was impossible to distinguish from each other, left the operator without any other guide, than the knife, to ascertain the real composition of the mass. When the knife had penetrated the watery cyst, and the parts were further opened, he was still further misled, and confirmed in his belief, that he had entered the sac of the hernia, from seeing the dwindled testis and hernia lying to- gether, in a condition to resemble the ccecum with its appendage. The subsequent history of the case will, however, serve to shew the necessity of vigilance—of extreme care and deliberation in opening herni- ary tumours. To avoid confusion in making out the identity of parts, the natural ones ought first to be traced. Had the testis been sought for in the foregoing example, the enquiry must have led to its detection at the extre- mity of the protrusion, which then, in its turn, would have undergone a more rigorous examination, and its real character have been quickly deve- loped.