FATAL ABSCESS FROM LACERATION. 97 spots, as of inflammation, appeared here and there on its mucous coat, which, however, seemed in no place to be ulcerated. " The wound which was made by the operation, and which, probably, had been somewhat increased in magnitude by ulceration, (for the sides of the wound had sloughed,) appeared to be larger than I expected, or intended it should have been; for the prostate gland was completely cut through, and the incision was continued quite through the neck of the bladder, the orifice of one of the seminal ducts was obliquely wounded, notwithstanding the great care which I took in directing my prostate knife. " One kidney was very little altered from a natural state, its pelvis, however, and the beginning of the ureter, were very much enlarged. The other kidney was merely a leathery cyst, full of matter, but a great deal di- minished from its natural size. In the neighbourhood of the bladder, the intestines were adherent one to the other, and appeared to be considerably inflamed. Upon tearing the adhesion through, the posterior part of the pelvis was found full of thin pus, probably there was a pint and a half of that fluid. The sacrum was even bared by its action, and the rectum was loosened from its attachment to it. " jRemarlcs. It is a good maxim for a surgeon, when he has lost a pa- tient after an operation, always to suspect that, in performing it, he was guilty of some error or oversight. For if he persuades himself that he has done every-thing right, he is precluding himself from the very chance of im- provement. Now, to criticise upon my own operation, I suspect that I made the wound with my knife too deep within the pelvis, by which means the peritoneum was too much exposed, and probably was bruised in the extraction of the stone; secondly, I suspect that I did not make my wound far enough in the urethra, that is towards the bulb, but that, if anything, I leaned too much towards Raw's method of cutting, instead of rigidly ad- hering to Cheselden's lateral method, as described by him, but more par- ticularly by Bromfield. " I rather think that in small subjects the neck of the bladder is com- pletely divided, almost always, though in adults that is not the case, on account of the greater size of the prostate." o