IRREDUCIBLE PROLAPSUS ANI, FROM ADHESIONS TO THE ANUS. 51 CASE III. Prolapsus Ani, irreducible from extensive adhesion to the surrounding skin of the anus, cured hy operation. JVIrs. . ^ aged forty-four, the mother of many children, had a prolapsus ani for four years, and during the whole of this time, she did not think the gut ever went back, but has remained projecting in concen- tric folds from the anus, like a small bunch of red roses, in the centre of the loose skin which surrounded it. Upon examination, I found the bowel adherent in several points to the skin, which circumstance retained it thus w^ithin the sphincter, and in a state of constant prolapse. This muscle how- ever, was amazingly relaxed, exhausted from the long residence of the gut within it, so that after having reduced this part with much trouble, I could easily pass two or three fingers through the former. The gut, either from its external adhesions, or the inefficiency of this weakened muscle, soon descended. During the short time, however, of its replacement, I observed the circular folds of skin about the anus, which were about half an inch in length, and it was evident, from the great relaxa- tion of the sphincter, that they must be removed very extensively, and close to the plane of that distance which is between the outer margin of the anus, and the termination of the intestine. I saw also that I should have some trouble in dissecting this skin away, and separating the intestine from its points of adhesion with it. After clearing the bowels well on the previous day, and permitting the patient to take slops only of gruel and milk, I pro- ceeded to the operation, endeavouring first to remove the gut out of the way, by reducing it, and then restraining its descent by the introduction of a large bougie, whilst I dissected the skin freely away, by the side of the in- strument, from the anus and bowel. But still the gut would descend, or was pulled down by the adhesions by the side of the bougie in places, and I therefore ultimately had the intestine held aside by the assistant, whilst those adhesions were separated, and all the loose skin freely removed, which was pulled out forcibly from the anus with a tenaculum. It was cu- rious to see, as soon as the incisions were completed, the muscular coat of the intestine, together with the relaxed sphincter, begin to act vigorously, and carry the gut into its proper place, and retain it there with ease, whilst