DEATH FROM MERE SOUNDING. 90 not now feel the stone, although he took the proper motions with the in- strument for that purpose. The boy's bladder was full of water, the penis having been closed, and abundance of milk and water drunk about an hour before the scene which was now passing. " Let me try," said the consult- ing surgeon; he did so, but very roughly, and for no short period of time, with no more success than the operating surgeon. Another and another tlien tried, in succession, but nobody could feel the stone,—and the whole assemblage of eight or ten visitors would have continued to hunt for the stone in this unfortunate boy's body, had not the operating surgeon very properly interposed, by saying, " stop, gentlemen, if you please ; this is my patient, and I fear you will do his bladder no good by proceeding further to-day." He was right, though his decision came too late. The little boy was carried to bed, complaining that his belly ached, and from that bed he was doomed to rise no more. Peritoneal inflammation of a very active kind followed, and in spite of the utmost attention, and early vigorous treatment, he died, on the fourth day from the date of the sounding, ask- ing piteously and affectionately, though without avail, for his far distant mother. On examination of the body, it was found that the inner lining of the bladder was highly inflamed, spotted red every-where, and that its perito- neal covering, at the fundus, was glued to the intestines, which were, on all sides, inflamed, and smeared with lymph. In addition to this melancholy illustration of the necessity of treating with caution and forbearance the human bladder, it teaches also another kind of practice than that which is common in our operation rooms. If sounding for a stone is sufficient to kill the patient, without the ope- ration of lithotomy itself being performed, it is clear, that sounding at all, immediately before the operation, is a bad practice, if continued beyond the period of a ready and immediate striking upon the stone. The movements of the sound in the bladder must irritate its mucous lining, nay, very possi- bly inflame it in some degree, and then comes the succeeding and more violent irritation of the operation itself; and who could wonder if, under such circumstances, fatal inflammation should follow ? There can be no