MEMBRANOUS STRICTURE. 29 CASE I. Membranous Stricture. Death from a false passage made hy the IBoiigie A maiden lady, aged sixty, who for nearly thirty years had been afflict- ed with severe forms of dyspepsia, and who had taken opening medicine almost daily for the whole of that period, now began to complain to her medical attendant of nneasiness about her throat, and across the lower part of the neck, with painful and difficult deglutition. Soon afterwards I M as consulted, and upon expressing an opinion that there might be a stricture of the oesophagus, she sat down to allow me an examination. With some difficulty I got through a stricture beyond the cricoid car- tilage, with a small-sized black instrument, but not until I had turned its point considerably to the left; it then appeared to grate over a rough surface. She remained in Gloucester a few days, during which time I passed the same instrument twice, after which she swallowed better, and returned to her home in the country, with a supply of bougies, to be now used by her family surgeon, a cautious and most respectable practitioner. I heard no more of this patient for a fortnight, when her surgeon wrote thus ;—"I sometimes can pass the instrument, and sometimes cannot; a little blood is occasionally spit up, and the glands on each side of the neck swell. She does not swallow so well." Soon after this another opportunity of examination was allowed me. She complained of increased pain across the root of the neck, and a tight feeling as if a cord was drawn around it. Suppuration was advancing in front of two lymphatic glands, one on each side the neck. I could pass a bougie of only half the size of the one I used before, but not without diffi- culty. She did not appear to swallow worse than when I last saw her; but there was, she said, a variation in this respect; at times she could swallow much better than at others. I recommended the anticipated sores from the bursting of the abscesses to be made into issues, and that the bougie be passed cautiously three times a week, and to increase the size gradually if possible. It was a month afterwards before I again heai'd of this lady; her