76 OBSTRUCTED SCROTAL HERNIA EFFECTED BY CASE V. Strangulated or obstructed scrotal Hernia, produced hy an injury from the patient's tvatch. A man, about fifty years of age, was brought to the Infirmary, with a strangulated scrotal hernia of four days' standing; his pulse was very low, his belly very tense, obstructed, and tender to the touch ; he had hiccough, and a cold clammy sweat pervaded his body. It was, indeed, an unfavourable case for an operation. The tumour was not bigger than a small egg, and when the strangula- tion took place, (in falling,) it appeared that his watch was struck forcibly against it. Was it not the cause of the strangulation or obstruction of the bowels ? In dissecting down to the sac, the external investment of it and the sac itself were so agglutinated together, that no distinction of parts could be made out, and in cutting a portion of the sac upon the director, the in- testine itself suffered, which was closely glued to the sac, and doubtless hung with it upon the point of the director. From this unavoidable accident taking place, the opening in the gut was, justifiably, considerably enlarged, so as to allow of the escape of the contents of the bowels. The nature of the adhesion of the intestine with the sac was afterwards examined, and found so complete, that the head of the probe could not be insinuated between the two substances. It was remarked that every touch of the knife, in dissecting down the sac, produced extraordinary bleeding, and doubtless this, as well as the re- markable adhesions between the sac and intestine, were produced by the blow of the watch. He died the fourth day from the operation, and I should imagine from the effects of the inflammation on the powers of life, excited by the stran- gulation, or the blow, before the operation was performed. All signs of inflammation passed away, as the contents of the abdomen flowed freely through the wound. He appeared to sink like a man ex- hausted. It is probable, therefore, that an earlier puncture into the bowel (inca-