18 SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS FROM AN ELONGATED UVULA. CASE XIV. Garret Ward. Hannah Portlock has similar chronic enlargement of the tonsils, and the same train of symptoms which indicate the spasm of the glottis take place in the night, Avhich is attested by all the patients in tiie neighbourhood of her bed. They are both intended for operation. CASE XV. Spasm of the Glottis, from the irritation of an elongated Uvula. A steward of Colonel Berkeley's complained to me of a very odd attack he sometimes experienced in the night, and to which he had been accustomed for some years. " It don't last long," he said, "for if it did I should be suffocated, but it alarms me exceedingly." In truth, he then spontaneously described the spasm of the glottis so accurately, that it was clear he was the subject of it. From the attack occurring in the night du- ring sleep, which impelled him to rise suddenly to seek relief, and that this relief always followed this change in his position, exactly after the manner of the spasm of the glottis produced by the irritation of an enlarged ton- sil, I was induced to take a careful survey of the fauces. There was no enlargement of the tonsils ; but there was an uvula so remarkably elonga- ted that it instantly arrested my attention. Its point was so long as to lie horizontally upon the tongue, and the whole of the fauces had a chronic, deep red, and relaxed appearance. Mr, L. in illustration of the condition of the uvula, said, that he had almost a constant feel, as if something stuck in his throat which he could not get down. On further enquiry, he had the more ordinary symptoms of indigestion, as flatulence, and irregularity of bowels. As this gentleman was sleeping upon his back, the great length of the uvula fell backwards, sweeping and irritating the epiglottis, and thus exci- ting the muscles which surround the glottis, to their spasmodic action. I wished to amputate the extremity of the uvula, to which the patient would not consent. He was then subjected to a tonic stomach treatment, and the use of powerful astringents to the fauces.