125 FROM ITS GREAT AGE. smooth, and you might pinch it with impunity. There was no transpa- rency or fluctuation in it, which can always be discovered in the encysted hydrocele of the cord. I had no hesitation in believing the lower division of the tumour to be the testis, and, in accordance with this belief, to plunge, or rather attempt to plunge, a trochar into its superior part, for in reality it could not be done, although the instrument was new, and urged with force;—such was its hardness of forty years' growth ! The pupils believed the testis was being bored, but that could not be, as the patient complained of no pain. At last a lancet succeeded in penetrating this cyst, which the trochar could not, the sides of which were enormously thickened, and which contained about three ounces of bloody-coloured substance, of the thickness of jelly. When emptied, this cyst appeared like a coarse leather bag, which might, by squeezing, be corrugated into thick folds over the face of what was either another tumour like itself, or the testis, as it lay immediately be- hind this first cyst. In truth this was the case. Another tumour of the same kind occu- pied the whole of the back of the scrotum. The tumour below was, as sup- posed, the testis, now distinct enough by the removal of the contents of the tumour from its boundaries. Two months passed away before the hollow of the cyst filled up, when all that remained were some ragged folds of skin in its place. It was pro- posed to treat the tumour, in the usual situation of the testis, in the same way, but he was content with the reduction of the front swelling, and the pain, and left the hospital. There could be no doubt that this posterior tu- mour was a cyst like the anterior one, proved by the same smooth hard feel and insensibility that distinguished it from the testis, which it had pushed downwards, but whose natural position would have been the spot occupied by itself. Many believed that the small transparent-looking tumour at the bot- tom of the scrotum was not the testis; and to these, the difficulties in pro- ving the character of the larger and upper tumour would be increased; for, believing this latter to be a diseased testis, and the former a collec- tion of water, the question would come,—what, then, is the condition of