3 SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS. quently but a short-lived existence, medical men do not often have an op- portunity of witnessing its wild, peculiar, and distressing character. The following was written down, soon after leaving the bedside of the patient. When first seized with spasm of the glottis, the patient starts up suddenly, tossing his arms in wild affright; an expression of terror, as if at- tacked by some dreadful enemy within, sits upon his countenance; the eye- brows are raised over balls that are starting from their sockets ; the shoul- ders rise and fall, as with an open mouth, and incredible exertions, air is drawn through the nearly obstructed tube, with a singular and alarming sound. Not a word is uttered, enough of the understanding is left in this moment of terror, to induce a belief in the unfortunate patient, that one would be fatal. But as the violence of the spasm subsides, he tells you in monosyllables as well as he can, that he has been nearly choked. This communication is sometimes made with a voice that causes you to start;—a deep, unnatural growl rises from the throat; or it is a fearful bro- ken whisper, that still bespeaks terror, though now on the decline. As this terror continues to fade, the expression of the whole man assumes a differ- ent character. Apprehensive of a return, he seizes the bed clothes with his hands, which before were tossing in the air, that he may not be taken un- prepared, and with one or the other, he will occasionally point to the thyroid cartilage, as the seat of all his sufferings. A pale, haggard, and subdued countenance, on which are seen a few drops of cold perspiration, is before you ; the mouth half open ; the breathing yet hard. The eye-balls indeed have in a measure retired within their sockets, but the eyes themselves, as the understanding rallies, wear a mingled expression of keen, watchful in- telligence, which follows your every movement, with restless anxiety. On your countenance and actions, are bent all the powers of the sufferer; a steady gaze meets you every where ; if the bearing be calm and determined, there is hope, but if you betray a wavering countenance, and an inclination to reach the door, you will be detected, and your patient, should he reco- ver, will put you down as nobody, or as ope of little value in the hour of danger and difficulty.