54 PROLAPSUS ANI, WITH A CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. accustomed to take place, not only when striving at stool, but also on her using any exertion, such as walking, or lifting weights, and has often des- cended on her first getting up in the morning. She describes the pain which she has been used to suffer, during the time when the gut was down, as having been exceedingly severe. Oct. 30th being appointed for the per- formance of the operation, she took, on the preceding evening, Ol. Ricini ^oz. which produced her three or four evacuations. Before performing the operation on Tuesday morning, the 30th, Mr. F. desired her to get down the prolapsus, which she did by striving as at stool. The parts then presented the following appearance. The gut which came down in the centre was distinguished by its folds of a bright red co- lour, and was surrounded on all sides by a loose, corrugated fold of grey integuments, about an inch in depth. From the right side of this, and deep within the verge of the anus, there hung, by a long pedicle, a cartilaginous tumour, about the size of a large garden bean. On one side of the orifice, a smooth, light purple, shining surface presented itself—part of the mucous lining of the intestine. Mr. Fletcher cut away the small tumour at the farthest end of its pe- dicle, and then introduced an elastic gum bougie, of a large size, a little way into the rectum, Avhich carried up the gut out of the way, and left the instrument surrounded by the above mentioned loose fold, or curtain of integuments. Through the two most projecting points of this curtain, which were nearly opposite to each other, Mr. F. introduced successively two curved needles, armed with double ligatures. He then drew forwards one of the ligatures, and with the scalpel cut away the loose integuments which it drew forwards. The same was repeated on the other side. The bougie being now withdrawn, the remaining parts slowly retired within the orifice, leaving no marks of the incision. A small part of the ring of loose integu- ments was not removed. The patient, feeling rather faint from the pain of the operation, lay down for a few minutes on a bed in the room, and after- wards went down into her ward. Scarcely any bleeding ensued. She took no medicine of any kind, but was ordered to be kept upon slops. Nov. 1st. To-day she is much better; she got some sleep at intervals last night, which was not the case on the night following the operation; she says that she has felt less pain since the operation, than she has been