PORTION OF BLADDER CONTRACTED ABOUT THE STONE. 105 enema of Magnes. Sulph. and gruel was then administered, but it returned without any faeces; several others were given him, but with the same want of effect. Pulse this day about 120, and feeble; tongue furred and white. In the evening he complained of slight pain in the bottom of his belly, with slight tenderness. Twenty leeches to be applied to the part. He was very much depressed, and said he felt convinced he should not live till morning. In the morning it was discovered that the nurse had not applied the leeches, in consequence of the patient expressing a dislike to them. He had vomited greatly during the night. The leeches were applied di- rectly, but did not draw much blood. A Croton Oil pill was then given him, his bowels not having acted; this also he threw up;—pulse uncom- monly quick, and very feeble,—tongue brown. In the afternoon his pulse was imperceptible; — Mr. F. ordered brandy to be given in small and re- peated doses. In the evening his pulse gradually rose, and in the course of the night he had stools. He recovered. Mr. F. considers the brandy to have saved him, by maintaining the powers of life until the bowels acted." But for the brandy, given freely, he must have gone; so low was he brought in the first instance by the profuse hemorrhage, and the long con- tinued teazing operation of extracting such a large mass of broken stones, and afterwards by the constant vomiting which succeeded the operation. But the hemorrhage might have saved him from the dangers of inflamed bladder and peritoneum, for the former was remarkably prone to inflame from the mere irritation of gentle sounding. CASE XI. Second Operation for stone on the foregoing patient. A portion of the Sladder contracted around the stone above the pubes. Samuel Pride returned to the hospital, after his former discharge and recovery from the foregoing operation, with more stone formed in his blad- der. He was repeatedly sounded, and a calculus demonstrated to be there; but no cystitis followed this preliminary operation, as was the case before p