140 CAUSTIC SAFE TO EMPLOY the foregoing". At all events, he would carefully make out, before he treats his patient so roughly, whether it is really this innocent enlargement of the testis with which he is about to deal. The affection commonly begins in the epididymis, and creeps slowly over the testis itself, which it enlarges and hardens, leaving it of its natu- ral shape, excepting only that the convexity of the gland is increased. Sir A. Cooper says this progress is made, without pain. I have certain- ly seen it accompanied with pain, when preceded and caused by the in- fliction of violence. It may be confounded with fungous haematodes of the the testis. "But the excessive hardness in the first stage," says Sir A. C, "and the yielding and obscure fluctuation of fungus in the second, distinguish it from chronic enlargement of the testis." To which may be added, that in the last affec- tion the patient is in good health; nothing of the frightful expression of countenance of the fungus can be distinguished, nor can there be seen the dilated veins of the latter spread over the surface of the tumour. It will be recollected that the caustic opening into the tunica vaginalis was made in the fungous cases, where there existed the intervention of water between the power of the application and the body of the testis. I have, however, used the same caustic, rubbed freely upon the fungous growth of the testis itself, which sometimes succeeds its suppuration in these sluggish inflammations of it, without any mischievous consequences; and hereafter I should not scruple to employ it, to produce the inflammatory process in these simple and innocent enlargements, in cases proper for a trial of such treatment. CASE III. Reynolds, aged twenty-five years, received the kick of a horse on his right testis, which was followed by swelling and pain in the organ, and which were reduced by the usual means. Some months afterwards it enlarged again, without any additional ex- citing cause being known to the patient;—^burst, and threw out a fungus ; and he appeared at the house with an insensible, firm fungus, growing out of, or attached to the testicle, somewhat like the head of a closed cauli-