SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE GLOTTIS. 14 go the clothes with his right hand, and pointing to the front of the larynx, said in a hoarse and husky whisper, " 1 shall be choked." This gentleman had been subject to sore throats, indeed he had lately had one, the effect of cold on a night exposure. At present there was no vestige of any inflammation about the interior of the throat, though he now swallowed with difficulty: but on the exterior there was a general swelling across its middle, more especially on the left side, a little below the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, deep and immediately over the carotid. The swelling had ascended high in the neck, making it look generally of a colossal size. At the point near the thyroid cartilage there was a redness, tenderness to the touch, and pain, marking the presence of phlegmonous inflammation. The pulse was quick; he was hot and thirsty. Fifty leeches v/ere applied to the inflamed parts, and a strong purgative given. Thi ee hours afterwards I visited this patient. The bleeding had been profuse, and his respiration w as infinitely more calm ; though once, and for a minute, since my last visit, he struggled so much for air, that his atten- dants thought he would have gone. This character, indeed, had prevailed throughout; respiration always difficult, but at times the convulsive strug- gle and stricture about the larynx, frightful. I watched the mode of breathing for nearly half an hour; and being satisfied that the regular difficulty, mingled now and then with spasm was greatly diminished, and that I saw no violent spasm of the glottis, I left, with instructions to be sent for, should the respiration become worse, I heartl no more of the progress of this patient, till I visited him eight hours afterwards. The breathing was nearly natural, the swelling in front of the throat greatly reduced, and the skin become pale. There appeared, however, a little hollowness of the point, which was red, near the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The spasm of the glottis did not return: but a day or two afterwards, I understood that the patient brought up some offensive matter, making it probable that suppuration in the cellular membrane of the neck had taken place, and found its way into the pharynx.