ON BOUGIES FOR THE (ESOPHAGUS. 35 The schirrous thickening may only occupy one side or point of the tube, and in regard to the exasperation of the schirriis into cancer, we must first have evidence of the existence of the former state, which is not to be ob- tained, unless in one particular case, where the surgeon could not be mistaken. If the patient has an ulcerated schirrus (cancer) of the oesophagus, he will spit pus mixed with blood, there will be pain of a lancinating nature about his throat—his pulse will quicken—his look be cadaverous—and he will more quickly emaciate than can be accounted for by the diminished quantity of food he swallows. In such a case, the chance of success from any instrument would indeed be but small, and the friends of the patient should know that nothing more than relief could be expected here. But, would a surgeon be justified even then in retiring from the patient; in doing- nothing, in letting the tube be closed by the disease, without making an effort to widen it for the passage of food—for the prolongation of life— when he has full probability that it is in his power to carry this measure into effect ? In the worst possible case therefore of the stricture of the oesophagus, I am decidedly of opinion that a surgeon would not do his duty, who did not attempt to remove it, at least so as to clear a road to the stomach. Life is always dear to the majority of mankind, and a prolongation of it is frequently desirable. In the foregoing case of cartilaginous stricture, there cannot be a doubt of its prolongation, and even a strong probability of an ultimate cure being effected, had an instrument, such as I have the honour of submitting to the profession, been employed. The coarse and uncer- tain movements of the metallic sound ca et Ui, in improving the passage, were so decided and remarkable, as to induce the patient and his friends to believe that a cure was certain. How much more efficient would an instrument be, whose operation musl^have a precision, a power of dilating more or less, or even of lacerating, according to the will of the operator ? The instruments now employed in the treatment of strictures of the oesophagus, are the Bougie, made of cloth and wax : the Probang, or in- strument with an ivory ball and whalebone handle: the Elastic Gum Bougie: the Caustic Bougie.