100 MEDIAN SECTION FOR A LARGE STONE. sanction of my betters, and the improbability, nay, impossibility of doing otherwise, in the lateral operation, with a stone—impenetrable—and nearly as hard as flint. Upon the detection of a large stone, (and no man should undertake lithotomy without being previously acquainted with its probable size,) I would relinquish all thoughts of the lateral operation, for with our present knowledge, that mode allows of no certain method of disposing of such a stone. With all their disadvantages,—and they are such as will not admit of comparison with the lateral operation, when the stone is not very large,— I would prefer the recto-vesical, or median section, when it is of a great size. If the fears of fistulous remains, or injury of the seminal ducts, should make surgeons reject the first, the last method is free of such objections. The bladder is opened the shortest road, the wound admits of the greatest di- latation, being exactly in the centre of the outlet of the pelvis, and sur- rounded by soft parts only. As to the danger of wounding the seminal ducts by the first method, it is by no means an accident confined exclusive- ly to the recto-vesical section, inasmuch as in Case VIII. of these notes, it will be seen that this important vessel was cut by a first-rate lithotomist, in performing the lateral operation. This last, however, in a general way, is probably superior to all other methods of cutting for a stone; but, in the particular case of a large stone, the median section, the last pointed out by Professor Vacca, is the one which would oppose the least obstruction to its passage, and where the operator could not be embarrassed, in the delivery of the stone, from having cut a large vessel, which, in this mode of opera- ting, is altogether impossible;—and which circumstance is of great import- ance, and vastly in its favour,—for nothing can be conceived more embar- rassing, among all the difficulties of lithotomy, than to encounter, at the same time, great hemorrhage and a very large stone. The four following cases are not failures, though approaching that way; and they are, perhaps, sufficiently interesting in some other points to be re- corded. The two first will further shew how prone the mucous lining of the bladder is to inflame from rough sounding, though accustomed, with impu- nity, to bear the irritation of the stone. They also furnish examples of a sacculated stone left in the bladder, of hemorrhage during and after opera- tion, and of part of the bladder contracted round the stone.