OPERATION—THE ENTEROCELE RETURNED. 67 upper portion of the sac, with a substance at the bottom of it, which had a form somewhat resembling a fold of intestine, but an external appearance very dissimilar; the polished lustre and demi-vascular character, on a near view, looking more like an investing membrane. I was in doubt as to its nature. The stricture of the tendon upon the omentum was liberated. A closer and more minute inspection showed the substance to have a dark chocolate colour, but lying so deep and obscured among the masses of adherent omentum, that it was a puzzling enquiry, especially by candle- light, to make out more than the probability of its being another, and an inner hernia, with its sac, enclosed in the one which had just been opened. The surface was certainly not intestinal, and its very deep and shadowy tone of colour made me respect its tender connections with the omentum, at the neck of the sac, which would be of value in retaining the substance in its present situation, should there be occasion to cut a mortified intestine. A few horizontal scratches with the scalpel, into this substance, were followed by a smart gush of water. Its nature was now, of course, ascer- tained, and by a careful cutting up of the large portion of intes- tine, of a deep brown colour, was discovered. It shone, however, too brilliantly to be dead, and was returned, after dividing the stricture which was in the neck of the sac, and some recent connections the bowel had formed with its upper portion. But what was to be done with the enormous mass of omentum, adher- ing on every side to its sac by numerous, and almost continuous points of firm, long-standing bands of membranous substance ? Some of these bands, less firm than others, and probably of recent growth, were torn with the finger, and others dissected away. But I found, as the dissection approached the neck of the sac, that the task of destroy- ing its union with its contents, with anything like precision or certainty, was hopeless, and would have been dangerous : no distinction of the one or the other could be made out; both were blended in one mass ; and, in con- sequence, the omentum was left in the wound, with the exception of the detached portions. These were cut away as lumber, and several vessels were tied at the divided edges. The mass of substance left in the wound was still considerable.