FATAL ABSCESS FROM LACERATION. 96 ed a little of his belly. The next morning, his pulse being frequent, and his belly somewhat tense, I took from him about eight ounces of blood;— by the time of his having lost it, his lips became pale, and he shewed signs of faintness, and soon after was a little sick, and a profuse sweat broke out. His pulse grew a great deal quicker, and smaller, and it is scarce credible how rapidly the peritoneal affection increased. Before the bleeding, he could bear his belly to be struck gently, or to be handled without pain. It was not much swollen; but within half an hour after the blood had been drawn, the abdominal region became universally very much swollen, tym- panitic, and exquisitely sore to the touch. He appeared to be in a great deal of pain, and his countenance grew expressive of great distress. His pulse was uncommonly quick and feeble, probably at least 180. He had had no stool since the operation. His urine was freely discharged through the wound, and some had passed through the urethra. "Clysters were given him, a blister was applied to the false ribs on one side, and a sinopism to the other. Warm fomentations of poppy heads, decoctions, and crude Sal Ammoniac, were used to his abdomen for an hour or two; but they seemed to do mischief, and to increase the pain and the swelling. Infus. Senn. cu. P. I. was given him, and afterwards some Ol. Ricin. after using the fomentations for two or three hours. Finding they afforded no relief, I changed them for Spt. Vin. Camph. cu. Tinct, Opii, applied cold, which seemed to lessen both the soreness and the pain. The next day he was better, the soreness of the abdomen was lessened. The twenty-first day after the operation he died. In the course of seven or eight days he was very much amended, having natural stools, and a great part of the urine passing through the urethra. His abdomen being free from pain, but his pulse was always quick, his appetite did not return, he had generally upon him a thirst, and his tongue was in general whitish, nor had his abdomen a natural feel; so that it was pretty evident there was some latent mischief, though of what kind I could not tell; beside, he every day grew more and more emaciated. His nights, though not painful, were disturbed. The nurse observed that his water was often whitish. " Upon opening his body, I found the bladder contracted to a very small size, so that its cavity would not have contained more than two or three spoonfuls of urine. It was nearly half an inch in thickness;—red