REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. 23 and somewhat indistinct form, in the manner of the lip-like character of the gum abscess, as seen between the cheek and the jaw. The best instrument for opening the abscess of the tonsil is a liroad lancet concealed in a sheath, called the pharyngotomus. With the aid of a speculum, which furnishes a good view, and a steady hand, it may be used effectively and safely; but there is mischief to be apprehended from carelessness, as well as from gross ignorance, even in this very simple ope- ration ; it would be the former, were a surgeon to point his instrument towards the angle of the jaw, and plunge it deep into the carotid, because he would not be at the trouble of gaining a good view: it would be some- thing else, of an infinitely worse character, should he do this in ignorance of the situation of that vessel. And yet it has been struck more than once or tivice, and the unfortunate patient sent to his account without warning by the very hand that should have saved him. Of course the pharyngo- tomus should be held in a straight line from one of the lateral incisors opposite the abscess, to the back of the pharynx, and striking the abscess only when the operator is certain that the mouth of the canula is resting fairly upon the spot he wishes to tap. Should the abscess be deep in the pharynx, as in the case of Hopton and the hospital patient, a curved instrument must be used, the fore-finger of the operator leading the point of tlie canula to the abscess, as far towards the back of the pharynx by the spine as possible, thus acting be- hind the larynx. The prominence of the tumor will assist. The chronic enlargement of the tonsil, (of which I have seen fourteen examples within the last year, in girls only,) will frequently, by obstructing the air through the pharynx, affect respiration; and supposing that the en- largement should not be enormous, an attack of inflammation will not gene- rally increase the difficulty by increasing the size of these glands, but then there is the irritation of the inflammation and suppuration to be dreaded, and should the glands in their chronic state be of great bulk, inflammation superadded will further increase it, and suffocation might take place from a few minutes assault of this terrific spasm of the glottis. It will be right, therefore, where acute inflammation seizes the en- larged tonsils, to subdue it by the most vigorous means, as speedily as possible. ^