REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. 24 It was pleasing in the hospital patient, Hooper, to witness the depar- ture of this spasm, as the treatment reached and dissipated the inflamma- tion which produced it. The occurrence of the spasm during the season of sleep, in these cases of enlarged tonsils, is probably referrible to the posi- tion of the patient, to the languor and relaxation on that state of thorough abstraction from worldly trouble: thus the tonsils fall cumbrously back- ward, and encroach upon the pharynx. The attack of spasm, however, does not always subside on the erect position being regained, a proof that the dangerous action of these muscles cannot always be instantly allayed, when once excited. Nor is the supervention of violent spasm during sleep only produced by the falling back of enlarged tonsils, for it is seen to occur in many cases of laryngitis where the tonsils were not affected; and in Mr. C. (see Case XI.) this was strikingly the fact. When the tonsil becomes so large as seriously to interfere with the process of respiration and swallowing, and no local or general treatment is found capable of effecting its reduction to an innocent size, it becomes necessary to remove a large portion of it, for it does not appear that it is absolutely required to remove the whole gland; and from what I have seen, tliis cannot be done without risking more bleeding than is desirable in so narrow and remote a spot. Hence it is, that when the mode of removal by excision is adopted, some surgeons are content with a section of it, having a natural repugnance to cut deep in the dark, confined cavity of the fauces, so far from the aid of the fingers. Patients too, frequently dislike the knife, and I will shortly describe how I have been in the habit of using the ligature with perfect success. Cheselden used to pass a curved needle, armed with a double ligature, through the base of the enlarged tonsil, by which the part was divided into two portions. The threads were then separated, and the two belonging to the upper portion were passed through a canula, (Levret,) which was carried close to the tumor, and retained there by twisting the ligatures around its bars. The otlier half was then treated in the same manner, and the threads on each tightened daily. This is a difficult operation to perform, especially where the jaws are not fixed by a dilator, and Mr. Chevalier somewhat improved it, in making a hole through the tonsil by means of a broad curved needle fixed in a long handle, and through that the double ligature was passed, appended to a bent probe, in the original manner of