DIAGNOSIS. 12:2 It may here be remarked that the hydrocele of the cord will also have a similar appearance to the foregoing, should there happen to be any water in the tunica vaginalis, which sometimes happens,—but it will be to the eye only. The chronic encysted tumour, to which I now allude, is very hard and of long standing, has a smooth surface, is devoid of pain, and insensi- ble to the touch, and, from the colour of its contents, it is probable that it is the aged remains of coagula, and therefore, its origin may generally be traced to some injury of the part. Occasionally, however, this tumour will arise spontaneously, or at least, in cases where no injury has been inflicted. DIAGNOSIS. This tumour may be distinguished from hydrocele and its varieties, by its want of transparency, its age, the hard incompressibility and weight, and the want of fluctuation; for though there is a fluid, yet it is very thick, the cyst which contains it is also so thick as not to admit of that motion being perceived through it. Its long existence will scarcely permit the pa- tient to remember much of its early history,—unless it arose from a blow. From hernia it may be distinguished from its never changing its size suddenly, or disappearing, which hernia will generally do at times, and by the peculiar impulse given to hernia in coughing, which act will not at all affect this tumour. Where the position of the testis is much obscured by the growth or situation of the tumour, and its guidance wanting, this tumour may be taken for a scirrhous affection of that organ, especially if the swel- ling be of a small size. But the hardness of the former is smooth on its surface, of the latter, knobby, and the cord is thickened. Both affections are slow in their progress, but in scirrhus there is an affection of the health, and lancinating pains shooting along the cord to the back. In Ihe tumour there is no pain, unless the part should have received fresh injury, and then it will be of the character of that pain which precedes suppuration, and which is altogether unlike the pain of scirrhus. That it is sometimes taken for a diseased testis is clear, for it must have been a tu- mour of this kind that a surgeon mistook for the testis, and removed the lat- ter in mistake; as described by Sir A. Cooper, in his beautiful work on the testis.