85 AFTER A LONG AND TERRIBLE OPERATION. though the possibility of the last was not at all in his contemplation. Scarcely would he submit to have his eyes bandaged,—he appeared as if he wished to behold the whole of that process which was to restore him to health and to his family! There are some operators,^—or let us rather say there were, — who, with but little knowledge, can, by a talent of imitation, perform the mecha- nical movements of an operation with singular boldness, rapidity, and effect, provided they meet with no irregular or embarrassing circumstance to dis- turb this beautiful harmony. But, should any unexpected and frightful event suddenly break upon the view of the hitherto brilliant man, then, he becomes astounded,—and is all abroad at the very moment when complete knowledge of the subject, the most perfect self-command,— the entire un- derstanding—are necessary to the poor patient's safety. It is then, too, the alarm and confusion commences; the requisite knowledge, and consequent coolness, are not at hand; desperate force is substituted for skill, and the patient is in the most imminent danger;—that is to say, in more danger from the operator himself, than from the disease which he attempts to remove. In the present instance, the operator made his first incisions clean and correct; he reached the bladder, felt the stone, and, in a twinkling, intro- duced an immense pair of forceps into the passage. But there was evi- dent difficulty or obstruction in their entrance to the bladder. Some more plunges were made with them,—still their room for action was evidently confined; at last, they griped the stone; but, from the wide separation of the handles, it was evident that the stone was either very large, or held in the forceps by its long axis. "This is a very large stone, Doctor, it won't come without a great deal of force;" a great deal of force was immediately applied, (and that not in the best direction,) but to no purpose,—the stone would not pass. The operator rested; the patient was calm, and complained not! The labours of the former, (his strength being recruited,) now re-commenced with re- doubled vigour, and an air which imported a dreadful determination to suc- ceed. His right foot was placed, in preparation for this really awful strug- gle, against a chair, which was supported by a pupil;—the scene became animated, though horrible. The straining and creaking of the forceps, as they occasionally lifted the suffering wretch from the table, (they twice