FROM PHLEGMON OF THE NECK. 13 He walked about the City with his mother, that day, in search of a recommendation, and down to the Hospital with it, and went to bed there at the usual hour, breathing no worse than usual. In the night the House Surgeon was called to this man, who was said to be suffocating. This was the fact; he died immediately after swallow- ing, with great difficulty, an opiate, given to him for the purpose of allay- ing the extraordinary spasmodic breathing, with which he had been sud- denly seized. It is not improbable, tliat the attempt to swallow this draught hastened his fate, by irritating afresh -the already excited glottis. A large sloughy ulcer occupied the lower portion of the back of the pha- rynx, and had extended itself to the back of the larynx, but the rima glottidis was free from disease, and its channel of the natural size. CASE IX. Violent spasm of the Glottis, from phlegmonous injlammation of the Neck. Patient saved. I was requested to drive with speed to a gentleman, who was said to be suffocating. I had scarcely entered the house, when it was reported, that the violence of the attack had somewhat subsided, though the patient was still gasping for breath. He was sitting nearly upright on the bed, and on my name being an- nounced, he fixed his gaze anxiously upon me, as if to enquire what relief he might expect, from a close scrutiny of my bearing and personal appear- ance. The expression of the countenance had also the wild horror of one who had just escaped some frightful personal danger, and who was yet momentarily expecting again to be overtaken by it. The Spasm of the Glottis was here plainly to be seen, in the occasional convulsive catches of his breath, though its violence had in a measure pass- ed away. He grasped, as he sat, the bed-clothes with both hands, and his mouth was open, drawing in air with great difficulty, his shoulders rising and falling as he did so, the eye-brows raised, the balls starting forwards, and a cold dew upon his pale face. As I approached the side of the bed, he let