50 HEMORRHAGE AFTER OPERATION FOR THE PROLAPSUS ANI. me, from so trivial an operation, only exceeded by the shock it excited, and the train of painful feelings which followed. My own responsibility, (for in this operation it was justifiably stated there was no danger, or risk of life,) the rank of the patient, and her obvi- ous and immediate danger, from the error of the pupil, created feelings which may be better conceived than described. She was lying upon her back—motionless, or with a little tossing of the arms, muttering incoherently a few broken words—cold—with a blanched and ghastly expression of coun- tenance—pulse scarcely to be felt. The bed smelt strongly of blood, and on turning down the clothes, she lay soaking in it; the steam from which rose, and yielded, by association, a horrid and sickening impression of her fate. I first poured down her throat a large quantity of brandy, and then proceeded to examine the wound. It did not bleed. More brandy was given, she was well covered with blankets, and had bottles of hot water applied to her feet. A small vessel at length shewed itself on the right side of the anus, which was secured. The pulse rose, warmth ensued, and with great attention, and abundance of stimuli, she became safe, after an immense loss of blood, at seventy years of age, from the bleeding of a small artery, of some hours' duration. Happy would it be for reckless young operators, to meet with so salu- tary a lesson in early practice. It would not be soon forgotten: thus teaching, better than rules, the necessity of the most rigorous attention to the precautions for the prevention of secondary hemorrhage, and to an early detection when it does take place, which last was here altogether overlooked by the pupil. The operation succeeded in restraining the prolapsus better than was expected. The bowel descended in some degree after the healing of the wounds, when she was at the water-closet, to the extent perhaps of one fifth of its former size. With the aid of a spring truss with a spherical pad, the prolapsus ever afterwards was very tolerably manageable; the patient could now walk about without its recurrence.