145 LENGTH. CLOSED VAGINA OPENED UP ITS WHOLE thra, in the same state as at birth. Her pelvis and mammae had expanded fully, and the sexual feeling was not wanting. From the latter circumstances, therefore, it was probable that the inter- nal organs of generation were in existence, although not the least proof, or even probability existed now, nor could be ascertained to have existed, that the catamenia had ever collected, or had even been formed. The absence of all swelling about the lower part of the belly, already noticed,—-the condi- tion of the fossa magna,—the freedom of the functions of the bladder and rectum,^—appeared to warrant a belief that no menstrual flux had ever been secreted; and it was, therefore, probable that the w hole passage was obli- terated, into which this fluid must have been poured, if one had existed. Under these circumstances, the case presented but a gloomy prospect of success from an operation, and the idea of one was rather discouraged in the mind of the unfortunate patient, who, however, being resolutely disposed to the measure, I consented to endeavour to make a road to the uterus. The patient was placed and tied in the lithotomy position. The fore-finger of the left hand was introduced into the rectnm, for ex- amination of that part, but discovering nothing unusual, it remained there as a guide to the after steps of the operation. Choosing a point in the cen- tre of the solid substance which occupied the position of the fossa magna, exactly midway between the centre of the enlarged mouth of the urethra, and the inferior commissure, and at an equal distance from the nympha^, the point of a double edged-scalpel was introduced to the depth of an inch, and the opening enlarged at the same moment, upwards and down- wards, so as to make room for the finger. Nothing followed the punc- ture besides a few drops of fresh blood; the resistance w as equally great to the point of the knife, the whole extent of its action. The fore- finger of the operating hand now occupied the hole made by the knife. All was shut and closed around its point; and yet there was a certain feel—of a reticular kind of texture, though much too firm to tear asunder, that gaA e some hope; the knife was resumed, and the forc-finger recalled from the rectum to assist in the dissection. This was carried on to the depth of two inches, keeping the point of the knife in the centre of the supposed passage, between its upper and inferior floors, sometimes pushing the parts out of