146 CLOSED VAGINA OPENED UP ITS WHOLE LENGTH. the way of the knife, as the latter made its slow progress. I felt, however, tliat I was engaged in very blind work,—if Scylla was avoided, there was imminent danger of falling upon Charybdis; if the knife kept clear of the poor woman's bladder, it was in danger of penetrating her rectum; and wishing to avoid this mischief altogether, I bethought myself of a large rectum bougie, to be driven with a mallet. The room already made by the knife admitted a large gum elastic instrument to be urged forwards to the extent of about two inches and a half. Fairly lodged in the hollow, the heel of the bougie received several severe taps with a hammer, that made the patient start again and again, but by which ground was evidently gain- ed. The operation succeeded well. In about a week, repetitions of this practice of tapping succeeded in reaching and discovering the uterus, which was perfectly formed, and in a healthy condition. The woman returned home,—soon after menstruated,—and has since been rewarded, for some severity of suffering, with a more peaceful home, and also, as I understand, with the birth of two children. Among some of the peculiarities of the foregoing case are, the great length of time the consolidation had existed before its removal,—its strength and extent,—and the long period which elapsed between the-usual date of the first secretion of the menstrual fluid and the time of the operation, with- out any secretion having been effected. In ordinary cases this fluid is col- lected and retained above the obstruction, and its existence is announced by the various inconveniences it creates. Here was no collection, and there- fore, no inconvenience. It is true the health was bad, and that it was res- tored by the operation; probably allowing of the action of the natural means for exciting the long lost functions of the uterus, and an exit for its secretions. The novelty of the method of operating, and the curious route of the penis, are, perhaps, worthy of remark. The enormous dilatation of the ure- thra, (the effect of its strange direction,) and the incontinence of urine it produced, soon diminished,—and twelve months afterwards, no vestiges remained of their existence. JEW AND WINGATE, PRINTERS, GLOUCESTER.