STRICTURES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS, ETC. 28 authors have described under probably the just term of schirrous ulceration of the gullet. At ail events, whatever may be its character, it is the business of a surgeon to make his way beyond it, that a road to the stomach be opened for the passage of food, ; for be the result what it might, it would be cruelty to leave a poor wretch with his throat shut up, when it is in our power to open it. The cartilaginous is a very rare form of stricture compared with the membranous one, and the last itself is not an every day occurrence in our hospitals. Deep in the throat, and remote from the eye and the hand, these affecr tions require, for safe practice, the most delicate tact, caution, and experi- ence in the employment of instruments, which only are capable of giving relief. If they are used roughly and heedlessly, mischief must ensue; and even in more careful hands, unused to this portion of the surgery of the throat, the most lamentable effects will sometimes follow, as will presently be shown. Nothing can be more common in hospitals, than to see the pupils passing bougies down the throats of patients who are reported to have strictures of the oesophagus. The instrument will pass easily, and the physician or surgeon takes credit for the discovery and cure of a disease that never existed. These are spasmodic affections of the tube, which sympathise w ith a disordered stomach ; they yield to a slight pressure of a bougie, and do not at all resemble the stubborn, permanent obstruction, which comparatively is seldom occurring. The first of the following cases is an example of the stricture begin- ning in the inner lining of the oBSophagus, which assumed a bridle-like form across that tube, in such a way as to leave an opening to the left of it, through wdiich a bougie would pass. But sometimes its point would hitch behind this bridle when the stricture did not admit it, and by daily attempts in this direction, ulceration was doubtlessly effected here; a little more force than usual was then merely required to force the instrument through the front of the tube into the wind-pipe. See the annexed sketch.