34 REMARKS ON THE SCHIRROUS CARTILAGINOUS STRICTURE. tlie false passage, passes over its small orifice without entering it. But such advantages do not exist, where a false passage has been made from the oesophagus; no mechanical power for a moment keeps open the stric- ture, for none can safely reach it, from the danger of its taking the new road. There is no natural dilating power from the direction of the stomach, which would be the safest road. The only one left is so full of danger, that no prudent traveller would venture to encounter its perils. The bougie would follow the track of the new and ruinous opening it had al- ready made, and food itself, the only natural means of temporary dilatation, could not be safely employed, for in the patient's attempt at swallowing, it would enter the trachea, (should the opening be in that direction,) and there excite a degree of inflammation in its mucous lining, that would greatly assist in bringing about a fatal termination, as in the case of Miss B. already described. A false passage, therefore, from the oesophagus, is a much more impor- tant accident than one from the urethra; so teeming with mischief, and disappointment in the treatment of this interesting though desperate case of real stricture of the oesophagus, that too much pains cannot be taken in the formation of instruments, or in their employment, to avoid such a mishap. In the female patient, the stricture was strictly membranous. There cannot be the least suspicion of malignancy in the nature of this case, and therefore I feel no hesitation in believing, that her life would have been saved by the destruction of the stricture. This might certainly have been effected by an instrument wliich could pass the stricture safely, and after- wards by its construction, and in its retreat, possess the power of breaking asunder the folds of membrane constituting it. In a case like the second, there may be doubts about the complete suc- cess of any instrument, but still in this, the one described would be superior to all others, inasmuch that it may be used with perfect safety, as far as the danger of making a false passage is concerned. It may be objected, that in the case of a schirrous obstruction of the oesophagus, that the part would not dilate, and that the disease might be exasperated by the use of the instrument presently to be described. But it does not always happen, that there are no dilatable points left in the circumference of the oesophagus.