CAUTION NECESSARY IN OPERATING. 134 who, takmg the complaint for a rupture, had ordered, and he had worn, a truss. But it appeared that his friends were dissatisfied with the ineffici- ency of the instrument, and wished to have the opinion of a hospital surgeon. An oblong tumour, between three and four inches in length, occupied the right side of the scrotum, but it did not reach to the bottom of it. It was more tense, and appeared larger, when the patient was erect,—was easily diminished by pressure towards the ring,—would finally pass through it, and appear reduced like a common scrotal hernia. But a close observa- tion detected it to have lodged above the ring, in the direction of the spermatic cord, where it formed a distinct swelling. No pressure there would carry it further into the abdomen; but, upon withdravt'ing all pres- sure in that direction, the tumour reappeared in the scrotum. The testis and spermatic cord could be distinguished at the lower part of the scrotum to be independent of the tumour, to which the act of cough- ing did not communicate any impulse. It was transparent when a candle was employed. There was a feeling of fluctuation, as though a fluid was contained in a very thick cyst, which appeared not to be quite full. This cyst was plainly traceable from the scrotum to the ring, its parietes feeling and slipping under the finger and thumb like an intestine. Perhaps the pressure of the truss, by inducing some absorption of the fluid within this cyst, and extending and spreading out its own parietes, gave both this cha- racter of looseness in its texture, and of its being partially filled. The facility with which the spermatic cord could be felt after the tu- mour had descended from the ring, and no impulse being given to the swelling by coughing, sufficiently distinguished it from hernia, whilst the distinct independent position of the testis, (somewhat behind the swelling,) and the obscure fluctuation, with the other characters already described, clearly marked this tumour to be an encysted tumour, or hydrocele of the cord. On the cyst being opened with a lancet, it was found to be at least a quarter of an inch thick, and containing about two ounces of bloody- coloured fluid. The wound was enlarged by a bistoury to the extent of two inches, and a portion of the cyst cut away; in the act of doing which, it was found firmly adherent to the spermatic cord throughout the whole length. Considerable suppuration followed, with a degree of inflammation