118 HEMORRHAGE FROM THE RADIAL ARTERY, CONTROLLED, unless in very bad cases, where the ligature of this vessel may be depended upon as a mere auxiliary only, to check the force of the current whilst other means are employed. And could not the finger upon the vessel, on some of these occasions, accomplish this with as much safety and efficacy, for the short time required, as the ligature ? No surgeon's library can be complete without Mr. Hodgson's invalu- able work on arteries, where may be found cases like the following, which, indeed, are perpetually occurring, and which shew, that, although the liga- ture on the trunk may control or diminish the current of blood through a distant branch, yet, it will not always stop the bleeding from it altogether. This requires further aid, in the shape of compression or final ligatures. CASE. Wound of the Radial Artery, as it passes under the tendons of the Thumb. From Mr. W. Fletcher s Case Book. Thomas Tyler, aged twenty-one, a carpenter, wounded the radial ar- tery with a chisel, just as it passed under the tendons of the thumb. He immediately went to a surgeon, who merely brought the edges of the ex- ternal wound together by sutures. In a week afterwards, the blood gush- ed from the wound violently, and in jets, when it was controlled by the finger. Another surgeon was sent for, who, examining the nature of the case, placed a ligature upon the radial artery, above the wound, and, in case of bleeding, a tourniquet lightly upon the brachial. In three days afterwards the artery again broke out; the dressings were removed, the blood was cleansed away, and pressure made upon a false aneurismal sac, which was discovered to have formed at the wound in the artery. Dur- ing this hemorrhage he lost a large quantity of blood, which rendered him extremely weak. In a few days the bleeding recurred. Another ligature was placed upon the artery, above the former, with no effect, the blood issuing from the lower end of the vessel, where no ligature had been placed; when a ligature was passed beneath the artery, lower down than either of the former, by means of a needle. On Sunday, the sixth of March, he came into the Hospital, blanched, and incapable of standing, and as it was not deemed fit to meddle with it unless bleeding recurred, the act was waited for. On the Thursday follow- ing it took place. The dressings were removed, and the wound freely ex-