CURED BY THE ACUTE INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. 137 has gathered up an impression in his mind that the disease must be incu- rable, and then he applies to a surgeon, for the purpose of castration. It is^in this state of indolence and hardness, with some effusion of water into the tunica vaginalis, that I have seen the supervention of artifi- cial acute inflammation and suppuration cure this most obstinate swelling. CASE I. Infirmary, Gloucester. James Hyatt was admitted into this hospital, covered with ring-worms, and with a chronic inflammation of the left testis, of considerable size,—marked by a convex or rounded form, remarkably smooth or polished on the surface. The ring-worms soon disappeared under the usual treatment of causti- cation, and the blue pill as an alterative; but the enlargement and inflam- mation of the testis, indicated by some pain, increased during this treatment. It was subsequently reduced by leeching, but the organ itself was left hard, and, though free from tenderness, much enlarged. He had experienced considerable pain in his loins, which were not so much relieved by leeching the testis as by blisters on the back itself. The effect of the inflammatory action was the effusion of water in front of the testis, which was discharged by a puncture, but its enlarge- ment remained stationary. Various attempts were now made to reduce the great size and hardness of the testis, but without any success. The patient confessed that he had a gonorrhoea some time before his admission. From this circumstance an urethral origin was suspected, and, in consequence, a sound was directed to be passed twice a week,—the pa- tient at the same time to keep his bed, and undergo a slight mercurial course. No benefit resulted from these means, which were fairly tried for two months; and as the man's health was very indifferent, he was sent into the country with the testis as large as ever, yielding a little pain upon pressure, but scarcely any at other times. In six weeks he returned to the hospital, the health improved, but the testis of the same size as when he quitted it,—- in its front, another and larger effusion had taken place. T