REMARKS ON FALSE PASSAGES. 33 thus easily fed; he rose and staggered with convulsive energy, and with- out assistance, to the bed-post, on which he held with both hands, and waited, with an eager and open mouth, for the meals that were to save him. They did not save him. He 1)ecame sick in the night, and died in the act of vomiting; probably through the intervention of a spasm of the glottis, excited by the pressure of the regurgitated food at the bottom of the pharynx. Sectio Cadaveris. He was generally free from diseased appearances, except about the gullet. The stricture would be considered by many (and perhaps it was) an example of schirrus affecting this part, but there was no other evidence in proof of this, than that a section through it discovered a hard, M'hitish, cartilaginous thickening, occupying a considerable portion of the circle of the cesophagus. (See Plate I. Fig. 1.) But there was no ulceration near it, or any where in the canal; nor did the cut surface of the thickening give the appearance of the membranous septa common to schirrus. The rugous, strongly marked character of the cesophagus above the stricture, compared with its smooth appearance below it, serve to shew the great efforts made by its muscular coat to pass food through the obstruction. Remarks. In the first of these cases, it is sufficiently clear that the patient's life was shortened by the making of a false passage with the bougie, into the windpipe. It is probable that a false passage thus made must always prove fatal; for, besides the difficulty of knowing when an instru- ment might be clear of it, and in the natural track of the cesophagus, there would also be another danger in the delay of waiting for the healing of this new opening, before attempts could again be made to find the natural channel; a delay that, in an enfeebled patient, would probably be ruinous. The stricture must be daily and rapidly closing, the chance of success constantly diminishing, as there would Jl^e no power, even in occasional di- latation, to delay for a short time the fatal narrowing of the tube. In the urethra the case is different. The stream of urine, though diminished in size, passing frequently along its canal, would probably assist in checking- its final closure from a stricture, when an interruption to the use of the bougie became necessary, from a false passage having been made by this instrument. This stream too, coming in a contrary direction from that of F