MAIN STRICTURE IN THE SAC OF THE ENTEROCELE. 68 Both herniae were of long standing, the omental the oldest. The young surgeon, (the son of the patient,) who was present, stated tliat his father had been able to return part of the protrusion for years past, which must have been intestine, as the remaining, and irreducible part, he was sure was omentum, from being often accustomed to its feel. The wound was closed with sutures, and thirty drops of laudanum given him. From the very doubtful condition of the gut, all opening medicine was forbidden, that it might not be disturbed in the process of adhesion to the upper opening of the ring. For the same reason very little liquid food was allowed. He recovered, without the supervention of any inflammatory symptoms. It has been strongly recommended, by some highly distinguished wri- ters on ruptures, and men of experience, not to expose the contents of the sac of a large and old irreducible hernia, which might become strangulated, from a fear of exciting inflammation in such an extensive surface by the ne- cessary dissection and violence; which inflammation, by being continued into the belly, would probably destroy life; but to be content with a division of the stricture, by passing the knife under the tendon, on the outside of the sac. Whatever may be the value of this advice generally, it is undeniable, that such practice, in the foregoing case, must have cost the patient his life, as the stricture in the inner hernia was formed by the neck of its sac, and must have been left untouched by the external liberation of the tendon only, without opening the tumour. This last step could only have released the omentum, the stricture upon which was the least important. This gentleman called upon me a year or two after the operation, when he said, that the truss, with which he had been fitted, rested easily upon the ring, without giving pain to the soft bed of omentum in which it lay, but it did not quite keep back the intestine, part of which slipped down behind the pad into the scrotum: but, he added, it was very odd that it should always have disappeared whenever he made water. The observation struck me. On examination, there was a tumour in the upper part of the scrotum,