53 PROLAPSUS ANI, ADHERENT TO A PILE. side was whiter; the line of adhesion was distinctly visible on a narrow in- spection. But for this sort of careful inspection, the purplish, hardened ap- pearance of the tumour, partially obscured by skin, might have confound- ed it with the hemorrhoidal excrescence, and thus have consigned it to the knife or ligature. The squeezing of the sphincter, when down, made it of its purple hue, and often to drop blood; the pain from the same cause was excruciating, and remained until the part was reduced to its situation with- in the bowel, above the sphincter. When the tumour was reduced beyond this muscle, there was yet some remains of its size in the canal, but this, I was satisfied, was the effect of pressure, and deposition of lymph, which the part had undergone when down, gorging and thickening the whole mass of tumour: but in this also was seen a difference in character from the simple prolapsus ani. There was no other morbid change within the gut. The operation consisted in separating, by dissection, the fold of skin from the intestine, removing it only at that point, to a certain extent, suffi- cient to ensure an union to the sphincter by the adhesive process, which would also strengthen that muscle, and somewhat narrow the aperture of the anus. The sphincter acted vigorously from the irritation of the cut, and ra- pidly carried the gut out of sight, into its proper place. Upon examina- tion, there was still left a portion of the tumour on that side of the bowel, within its calibre, but I knew, from experience, that this would quickly disappear, a circumstance that I have always known to happen in every case of tumour within the bowel, which has been formed by the pressure of the sphincter, when that part of the bowel had been much down. The operation prevents any further descent, and the remains of the tumour dis- appear by absorption within the gut. The lady was cured by the operation for the prolapsus. CASE V. Prolapsus Ani of long standing, with a tumour suspended from the inner margin of the atms. From my sons Case Book. ' Elizabeth Hunt was admitted into the Infirmary, under Mr. Fletcher, in October, 1827, on account of a prolapsus ani, with which she had been afflicted for nearly twenty years. For several years the prolapsus has been