37 ON BOUGIES FOR THE (ESOPHAGUS. Moreover, there is always some swelling and inflammation of the tube, in the use of the caustic, and in a narrow stricture the difficulty of swal- lowing from this cause is always increased, and sometimes deglutition is altogether suspended. The necessary delays thus occasioned in so urgent a case is no small objection to the armed bougie. In the cartilaginous stricture of Mr. W. (Case II.) which was nearly an inch long, and a quarter of an inch thick, it would have taken the caustic two months to have travelled through it; making a fair allowance for the delays necessary for the separation of its sloughs ! ! And supposing the stricture to have been narrow where its use commenced, whether the interruption to swallowing either liquid or solid food by the inflammation excited, would not have starved the patient, long before the period when the stricture itself would have had this effect, must be left to the consider- ation of the reader. But the circle of the canal in the foregoing case was not at every point cartilaginous, these more dilatable points would have been discovered by one of the divisions of the dilator, and the patient thus have had immediate relief in the power of swallowing, as actually occurred when merely a common metallic sound was employed. The use of the armed bougie is never followed by such immediate relief, which in an urgent case is an objection to it, and if it ever does succeed, it can only be through a tedious, uncertain, and highly dangerous process. Its first effect, by inflaming the passage, is always mischievous. The best of the bougies which act from the point is that made of the elastic gum, but unless it be stiffened with cold, or still farther by freezing, a firm stricture will turn it back, and if stiffened too much, it has all the mis- chief, or nearly so, of the common bougie, for its point must be urged, and if placed wrong, it may thus be driven any where but through the stricture. I had once occasion to see it so driven through the lower part of the pharynx into the neck, amongst the^great vessels, around which it excited suppuration. (See the drawing.) It might have wounded the carotid artery, the jugular vein, or the eighth pair of nerves. Lower down in the tube, it might have been pushed through into the mediastinum, or into the thorax. Nothing therefore can be more dangerous than forcing a stricture of the oesophagus with a pointed instrument.