38 DEATH ACCELERATED FROM A FALSE PASSAGE BY THE BOUGIE. CASE III. Death accelerated from a false passage made hy the Bougie through the lower part of the Pharynx. This portion of the pharynx hangs loose, and readily admits the point of a sharp, conical, bougie, to be entangled in the folds always found in it above narrow obstructions of the oesophagus, somewhat in the same mode as it would hitch in a membranous stricture of it lower down. Under such a circumstance, the texture of the part, thin, and capable of little resistance, admits the pointed instrument to penetrate its substance, upon the appli- cation of a very little force. This patient had stricture of the gullet, impassable to a bougie, im- mediately opposite the cricoid cartilage, which had been teazed and inflamed by armed bougies to such an extent, as not to permit the smallest quantity of solid food, and very little of liquid, to pass the obstruction. In attempting to pass a stiffened elastic gum bougie, with a sharp point, it was conceived by the surgeon that he had succeeded. On the fol- lowing day the patient's throat was swollen enormously, a large abscess followed, and, as no food could be swallowed, he soon perished, from the combined effect of starvation, and the irritation of the abscess. The perforation in the pharynx, and the dangerous spot where the point of the instrument had rested, are indicated by a common bougie passed through the opening. (See Plate.) The instrument I have projected, as a substitute for pointed ones, may be used as a lacerator of the stricture, or as a mere dilator of it. It acts from its sides. It is made of metal, curved to the shape of the throat. The size of it is small, so as to allow its point to pass through any stricture with certainty, and without the slightest force. I have never met with a stricture of the a?sophagus in life or in death, that would not readily permit the passage of so small an instrument. The stricture which destroyed the patient, the subject of the second case, admitted a metallic sound of twice the size of the dilator, although it