22 REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. tumors that go under that appellation, the bleeding should be general, from a fear of rousing the fitful activity of the laryngeal muscles. Should the spasmodic stricture of the glottis be excited by acute in- flammation of the fauces, whether advanced to suppuration or not, as in the cases of Surman, the Hospital patient, Martha Hooper, and Mr. A , the most active, local, and general means should be employed in the first instance; whilst in the last, a fair and broad opening in the abscess, will be sufficient to do away the irritation and the danger. Very powerful general means, and scarifying the inflamed part freely, w ill very frequently prevent suppuration, and surely such should be accom- plished, in all cases of extensive inflammation of the mucous lining of the fauces ; for if we allow a large abscess of the tonsils to form, the passage for the air through the pharynx, Avill be more or less obstructed mechanic- ally, and vastly add to the danger of suffocation, should a spasm in addi- tion take place. If however an abscess forms about the tonsil, notwithstanding the local treatment of scarification, or leeches to the outside of the throat, accom- panied by a rising difficulty of breathing, no time should be lost, the pati- ent's jaws should be well separated with a speculum, the tongue depressed, and an accurate examination be made of the fauces with the eye and finger. The abscess generally points, or rather slightly bulges through the velum, on the side inclining to that on which the tonsil is most aflected. With the mouth fixed by a speculum, the fingers will usually be able to distinguish a fluctuation, and although it may be somewhat obscure, yet the surgeon should be satisfied of the fact. Unless pains like these are taken, the pharyngotomus will be at work at random ; several plunges may be made unsuccessfully with it, there being generally no such distinct pointing to lead the eye as in abscesses in a different structure. Surgeons have again and again punctured the tonsil, and retired from the patient with a belief that suppuration had not taken place, leaving him to an imminent risk of suffocation, the abscess remaining altogether un- touched, and hourly rising in magnitude and danger. The examination had not been sufficiently minute to detect its real position. An abscess of the tonsil will sometimes take place on the back part, skirting it in a long