OPERATION FOR THE IRREDUCIBLE PROLAPSUS. 52 all my attempts to accomplish this with my own fingers were unavailing. The stimulus of pain, coupled with the liberation of the adhesions, was probably the source of this renovated vigour. When it is desirable to make the adhesive process as firm and as con- tracted as possible, I am in the habit of laying pieces of sponge upon the anus, and filling the hollow of the buttock with it, so that considerable pressure is made upon the part, which is already contracted or tucked up: the muscular action is assisted in retaining that tucked-up character by the external pressure. On the night succeeding the operation, she had some pain about her sides when she inspired deeply, was frequently sick, (indeed nothing remained on her stomach) but her pulse was not at all quickened, and she was free from heat. From these latter circumstances, but especially from there being no tenderness about the abdomen when pressed, it was clear that the symptoms did not arise from inflammation, but from simple irrita- tion. Her stomach, she said, was unusually disposed to sickness when in health, and irritation of any kind was likely now to excite this organ. On removing the pressure with the sponge and bandages, she spoke of instant relief, and soon after, indeed, all the irregular symptoms vanished. This was probably the cause of the vomiting. I kept this lady lying down that no superincumbent weight might keep the healing parts on the stretch, and she recovered, with the anus as smooth as it ever was, though the aperture required, from its small size, a little enlargement occasionally, with a candle, to make sufficient room for the fseces to pass. CASE IV. Prolapsus Atii, with adhesion of the gut to a portion of the shin near the Anus, forming a tumour. The subject of this case was a maiden lady of forty years of age. The tumour was about the size of a double walnut, and a close examination proved it to be the lowest portion of the bowel adherent to a portion of loose skin just within the anus. The inner side of the tumour formed by the intestine had a very deep red, or purplish tone of colour, the external