119 BUT NOT STOPPED, BY LIGATURE ON THE TRUNK. posed; pulsation was distinctly felt, and indeed to be seen in the wound. Pressure upon the trunk of the radial stopped the pulsation at the wound, and as the wounded point of the vessel was very difficult to reach, a liga- ture was applied on the trunk of this point; but, on the next morning, (Friday,) bleeding again took place from the wound in the vessel. The ulnar artery was now tied; in a few minutes afterwards pulsation was dis- tinguishable in the sac. On seeing this sure sign of a fresh bleeding,—though the pulsation was not so strong as before the ligature was applied,—the surgeon put a sponge compress exactly on the wounded vessel, the pressure of which was regu- lated minutely, by the pad and screw of a tourniquet placed over it, observ- ing, that, as the pulsation was diminished by the ligature, he thought com- pression would now succeed, which it did perfectly in this example. Had this wounded radial artery been secured at both its extremities if divided, or on both sides the wound in it, if not divided, there could have been no bleeding, from the anastamoses being entirely excluded, by the closeness of the ligature, to the injury of the vessel. This case, with many others, serves to confirm what has been said and long since observed, that ligatures upon arterial trunks will frequently do no more than merely restrain the impetus of the blood through their branch- es. Though sometimes useful, this will often prove too expensive, as well as an unnecessary auxiliary in operation. The part of the foregoing case of aneurism of the posterior aural arte- ry, which belongs to its history, after the return of the patient to the hospi- tal, is so far distinct from the portion of it before described, as in no way to interfere with the fact, that the disease was cured by the two ligatures. It is probable that the affection of the nerves was local or original, and not sympathetic, which is the general form of tic douloreaux, as exemplified when a symptom and effect of gastric irritation. The cases narrated by Dr, Warren, in the Boston Medical and Surgi- cal Journal, were very similar to the neuralgic portion of the preceding case. They too were local and original affections, or they could not have been cured by excision. The difficulty must be in discriminating between really original, and