6 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE GLOTTIS. On examination of the tumor, there was found a cyst, which arose from the centre of the right lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, which con- tained about a small tea cup full of a fluid resembling ink. The lateral lobes themselves were considerably enlarged, but the right the most so. The larynx was perfectly healthy in its appearance, the membranous covering of the epiglottis, sacculi laryngis, and chordae vocales, was totally free from inflammation, or its effects. I shall now give the following cases of spasmodic stricture of the glottis, arising from chronic abscesses in the pharynx. CASE III. Spasmodic stricture of the Glottis, from the irritation of a strumous,^ or chronic abscess of the Pharynx. Hopton, aged nine years, was brought in his father's arms for my advice, on account of the symptoms now to be described. The poor child with his mouth half open, breathed slowly with a wheezing noise, and in a slightly laborious, though regular manner. He spoke with reluctance, and then in a grave whisper. His father said, he has complained of a pain in the throat, especially in swallowing, and also of pains about the sides and back of his head ; but that he would not have brought the child under these circumstances alone, had he not been indu- ced to do so, from an attack of an extraordinary kind, which occurred to the boy in the night. He was suddenly seized with great additional dif- ficulty of breathing, he threw out his arms in a convulsive manner, the eyes stared with a wild fullness, and he laboured to draw in air, in a way as to frighten himself and wife. It was a long, deep inspiration; but he held his breath so long afterwards, that they thought he was dead; yet af- ter a while he would inspire again, but so reluctantly, that it seemed as though he did not like to part with the air, fearful that he should obtain no more. This mode of breathing happened only when he slept, which he al- ways did in nearly an upright position.