62 PROLAPSUS ANI FROM STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. cribes to this substance. The strainings at these periods are very severe; she never suceeeds now without the previous employment of powerful pur- gatives, and when occasionally some time back, an evacuation was procured without such aids, the size was not more than one third of those noticed when in health. After success has been obtained by medicine the protrusion or sub- stance appears externally in the greatest quantity. If she strain at times when physic has not been used, a slight protrusion only is the effect, ac- companied with general bulging about the orifice of the anus. At these times of striving, there is a sensation of obstruction and tightness below the umbilicus, as if the contents of the bowels could pass no further. When medicine has acted fully, this sensation wholly dis- appears for a time. She is flatulent, but little or no air passes through the rectum. On inspecting the anus, a hemorrhoidal tumour only appears on the right side of it. But when the lady is instructed to bear down in imita- tion of the act of impelling the motions, a large fold of the bowel makes its appearance, which is the substance the patient speaks of that constantly follows an evacuation, and which she conceived to be the cause of the ob- struction, by filling up the passage. Suspecting from the great difficulty of procuring evacuations; the straining; the constant sense of stoppage low in the belly, and the small size of the natural stools, that there is a stricture, that the prolapsus is a secondary affection, I now attempt to pass a bougie, properly softened and adapted to the curves of the bowel, and discover a stricture of a very obstinate kind, at five inches from the anus. No instrument will pass it. This is, doubtless, a bad stricture, and is probably the effect of an at- tack the patient experienced twelve months ago. I attended her at that time, when labouring under a most severe bowel affection, which was dis- tinguished chiefly by incessant vomiting of green matter, acute pains across the belly, and most obstinate constipation. This patient has now a sinking at her stomach, great flatulence and uneasiness after dinner, languor, and other signs of indigestion, which symptoms may arise from the disturbance of the digestive organs, from the obstruction in the intestine, or may, in part, be the effect of the low and