FEAR OF LOSING THE STONE UNREASONABLE. 86 pulled him off it,)—his wild, agonizing shrieks, and entreaties for forbear- ance, after continuing for nearly two hours, gradually became more faint, and sunk, at last, into a piteous moan,—and when the stone was shown to him it was doubtful whether he saw it, or was even conscious that a pe- riod had, at length, arrived to sufferings that never were exceeded in mortal man. He expired in a few minutes after being carried to his bed. The body was not examined. The operator was naturally a quick and clever man, with a great deal of tact; but he here met with a stone of more than five ounces in weight, w ithout having previously made himself acquainted with the case by re- peated examinations, which would have enabled him to plan his operation better, so as to meet the peculiar difficulties which a very large stone must create. Upon looking at the gorget, I thought it certain, that it could not, from its small size, have completely divided the left side of the prostate, moreover, it cut only on one side, so that room was lost on the right side of this gland. The operator too, having seized the stone, appeared to be unwilling to part with it, fearing it would be difficult to find again; al- though he must have felt a stricture or binding upon it, which would require great force to overcome. He appeared to be mentally whispering to himself, " If I let it go I may not get hold of it again, and it shall come now it is in my power," and with this wrong understanding of the princi- ples of this operation, the fatal pulling was continued. This feeling of apprehension, of fear of losing the object of his anxiety, too often occupies the mind of the operator, especially in the case of a deep perineum, where the stone is at a great distance from the finger, and not easily felt or commanded by it. But no woman's fear can be more unrea- sonable, no surgeon's more ruinous,—for it leads to acts of desperate vio- lence. The road to the bladder cannot be lost after the forceps has once entered its cavity, and the stone will be as easily seized a second or a third time as it was at first,—at least, it will be seized, by steady and gentle efforts. If any considerable sense of stricture, therefore, should be felt at the prostatic opening, when the operator attempts delivery of the stone from