THE WHOLE OF THE LOSSES WERE FROM 98 As in the former case, so it will be seen in this, that the great loss of blood did not prevent the occurrence of peritoneal inflammation, which was probably the effect of the rough use of the forceps ; and this was evident by the sloughing condition of the wound into the bladder, or the points on which the instrument acted: or, to take the operator's ow n explanation, it was vi- olence or bruising of some sort, unnecessarily bestowed, either by the knife, or in the extraction of the stone. Nor w as Mr. Trye an unlikely person to commit such sort of violence occasionally. A good operator generally; in lithotomy he was a master. But like many other operating surgeons of great eminence, distinguished by the splendour and success of their undertakings, his high qualities of boldness and decision—the offspring of a superior anatomical education — would sometimes run a little wild, and be mischievous. Knowing what he could do, he was now and then somewhat proud of his really fine talent, and gave his patient no quarter. In plain English, he was rough ; and at times and seasons when roughness might well have been spared;—but, in his rough- ness, lay the stern proof of his uncommon excellence, as an operator, —a rare union of science, with a cool,—calm courage,—that was never known to flinch, — or be for a moment disturbed, by the most embarrassing cir- cumstances of blood and difficulty. The foregoing eight cases are the whole number of deaths (with the exception of one) which followed the operation of lithotomy, or attempts to perform it; and the whole that perished out of fifty-nine operations which have been performed within my knowledge. They all died from violence. Whilst it is admitted that the success of the operation, in the number of lives saved by it, was greater than usual—yet it may be safely affirmed, that, with the exception of the first, and perhaps the third case, the entire loss of life arose from a violence that may be deemed unnecessary; which, with ease, coolness, and constant reference to the principles of the opera- tion, might have been avoided, and the patients' lives saved. It may so happen, indeed, that, in irritable subjects, the ordinary vio- lence of a well conducted operation would be sufficient to excite some of those fatal affections which destroy life from lithotomy. But, amongst the