106 DISLODGED WITH THE END OF THE SCOOP. the first operation of lithotomy, nor was the stomach disturbed by it, which was remarkably the case on the former occasion. The operation was now performed a second time, and no difficulties experienced in the early stage of it. The muscles and prostate were freely divided, and the stone was just touched with the tip of the fore-finger,— deep,—but very high, and above the pubes. The discovery of its situation was not made very readily, and then the forceps could not dislodge it,—^for it was evidently grasped or enclosed by some fold of the bladder. A little suspension of all earnest efforts was allowed, with a hope that the contrac- tion might cease, employing the time in very gentle efforts of the forceps, to catch the stone between their blades, but in vain,—they constantly slipped over a small portion of its surface. The contraction around the stone did not relax—the stone retained its situation. Determined to use no violence, and to cease all further annoyance of the bladder with the forceps, they were thrown aside. With the tip of the fore-finger of my left hand as a guide, the handle of the scoop was-conduct- ed to the lodging of the stone. By greatly depressing the handle, the ex- treme point of it was inserted over the calculus, and with a few gentle eff- orts,—exactly after the sweeping or curved manner of the vectis working under the pubes, upon the occiput of the child, in delivery,—the stone was turned out of its enclosed or sacculated position, and fell to the bottom of the bladder, whence it was easily removed on a second introduction of the forceps. The bladder was well cleared by the syringe in both operations. Dis- charged cured. "Where, as in the foregoing stone lodged above the pubes does not come readily with the forceps, straight or crooked,—the attempts with them should be discontinued, and some other contrivance adopted to dis- lodge the calculus, with the least possible violence to the bladder. Any slightly curved instrument, with a rounded edge and point, and of sufficient length,—which could be passed over the stone and beyond it,—would pro- bably have the power of throwing it down to the bottom of the bladder, when the forceps might be safely resumed. At this time,—sixteen months after the last operation,—Pride has again symptoms of a stone.