5 SPASM OF THE GLOTTtS* CASE 11. Fatal Spasm of the Glottis, from JBronchocele. • Takell, aged 14, was admitted into the Gloucester Infirmary, for a bronchocele which had existed for seven years. Of late, she said her breathing had become considerably affected, es- pecially at times. From the beginning of an examination of the tumor, (during wl)ich she complained of its being exquisitely tender to the touch,) her breathing became much affected, and towards its conclusion, it assu- med the character of the spasm of the glottis, Avith which I was not then much acquainted. She said the tumor had been frequently painful, but of late almost constantly so, that at such times it would not bear touching, and that it has recently increased in size. My note taken at the time says, " she draws in air with uncommon dif- ficulty, whilst handling the tumor, (which is painful to the touch, but not hot) her countenance has a pallid, and anxious expression, she has never menstruated, but her breath is perfectly good. " " She is to be freely leeched daily till the pain and tenderness be sub- dued, and then, a small seton is to be passed beneath the skin which is over the situation of the right lobe of the thyroid gland, but it is not to en- ter the substance of the tumor." The bite of the leeches, produced the same train of extraordinary symptoms, which followed the manual examination. She sprung up in bed throwing the leeches from her, at the same time raising the shoulders, and tossing her arms about wildly. In this position with an open mouth, and protruded eye-balls, she drew in air with a laborious exertion, quite astonishing, and a frightened expression and haggardness of feature, painfvd to look upon. The leeches were repeated three times, always followed by a repeti- tion of this paroxysm. The nurse spoke of the great tenderness of the tu- mor, when handled in leeching; but there was no inflammatory redness of the skin, or increased temperature. The seton was passed. From this period there was certainly no amendment; the remainder of her life, was a succession of the struggles to get air, and as swallowing increased their violence, she attempted to take food no more, and died before the prepara- tions for bronchotomy could be completed.