123 DIAGNOSIS. If the testis could always be satisfactorily felt, this would be decisive, that at least the affection could not be of that organ. But, when the de- tection is not effected, the tumour might be confounded with another dis- ease, by a very careless observer of it, viz. the first stage of fungus haema- todis. This last, like the tumour, has, in this stage, a smooth surface and hardened character; but the former is of some years' existence, and does not change its appearance, ^—whilst the nature of the fungus is comparatively rapid in its changes: the hardness possessed by it quickly passes into its latter stages, which are marked by softness, (frequently equal to a common hydrocele,) by a discoloured skin, the surface of which will soon be cover- ed by large veins, and by a disturbance of the health, with a sallow, hag- gard, and peculiar expression of countenance. If the testis can be discovered at the bottom, or near the encysted tu- mour, the distinction becomes very easy; not only from the last objection, but from all others to which the testis is liable. For, this organ being dis- covered at the bottom of the swelling, the only affections with which the chronic tumour could be confounded would be the encysted hydrocele of the cord and hernia, the character of which last has been already described. The situation of this tumour above the testis, and about the cord, its hard and insensible feel, its age, (with which its hardness will correspond) its origin, (most commonly from an accident,) its obscure fluctuation, should its age be not very great, will serve to identify its nature: though it might, even with this knowledge, be confounded with the hydrocele of the cord, where it is combined with hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, should the sur- geon be rapid or careless in his manipulations. It could hardly be taken for an haematocele,—though it takes its rise probably in the same way;— and if by that term is understood a bloody collection in the tunica vagina- lis, for the situation of the chronic tumour is somewhere about the cord, either in the front or behind it. Hence in the haematocele the testis is not distinct and of its natural size, as it is engaged in the general swell- ing. In the chronic tumour it lies separate from the swelling, and may commonly be discovered immediately below it. But if, as some authors have described it, a species of haematocele may arise in the situation of the cord, from a rupture of the spermatic vein, then it can be supposed that blood so extravasated may, in the course of time, with the gradual thickening