SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS. 8 There was no more return of the spasm, but the boy died some weeks after he had escaped its danger, of strumous disease of the lungs. Unfor- tunately being from home at the time, there was no opportunity of inspect- ing the pharynx. CASE IV. Fatal Spasm of the Glottis, from a chronic abscess of the Pharynx. A middle aged man, for some time past, had laboured under a great difficulty of breathing, and swallowing, of soreness in his throat, and con- stant pain there. His respiration was accompanied with a deep hoarse voice, not very unlike the barking of a dog. On inspecting the fauces, nothing unusual appeared, except that the tonsils seemed to lie remarkably far backwards, and that they were at an unusual distance from each other, making the opening of the pharynx sin- gularly large. This opening was at least two inches across. One morning his difficulty of breathing increased suddenly to a vio- lent and alarming degree, and in half an hour he died like one suffocated. On a post mortem examination, there was discovered a chronic ab- scess deep in the pharynx, situated about two inches from the fauces, and containing about two ounces of pus. This abscess very much lessened the size of the canal through which the food was to pass, and also made great pressure on the larynx. This man was a patient of one of the former surgeons of the General Hospital here. It appears little was done for him, because the affection in his throat was not known or suspected. It is nevertheless true that his life might have been saved, had the surgeon taken the necessary precaution of obtaining as much knovv'ledge with his finger, as it could furnish him, A speculum would have controlled the mouth, so as to have admitted a deliberate examination of the lower position of the pharynx, and a curved pharyngotomos would have penetrated the abscess. The preparation of which there is an engraving annexed, will shew that the larynx was not closed by the pressure of the abscess, (though its capacity was much diminished) and that it was the spasmodic action of the