COMPLETELY OPENED BY OPERATION. 144 plaints as one of another description, which was bitterly complained of at home, and which made her life miserable in the neighbourhood. "In troth, your honour," said the eloquent old lady, in a subdued tone, ap- proaching close to my person, laying her finger impressively on my arm, and at the same time, with great feeling, turning her back upon the pa- tient, "in troth, your honour, this poor thing is married, but she has got Externally the parts had a well-formed and natural appearance;— though an urinous odour was very distinguishable. On separating the labia pudendi, and surveying carefully all within them, the orifice of the vagina appeared unusually high up; that is, much nearer the glans cli- toridis than it should be. On a more minute inspection, the real condi- tion of the parts was as follows. The fossa magna was entirely walled up, from the inferior commissure to the opening which, at first view, appeared to be the orifice of the vagina, but which, in reality, was the orifice of the urethra, very flabby, and enor- mously enlarged, and which was then in the act of bedewing with urine the parts below. The wall of substance thus filling up the fossa magna was solid and unyielding, giving no idea of there being a hollow behind it, oc- cupied by a moveable substance, as in the more common closures of the orifice when the catamenia are collected in the passage,—nor was there any fullness of the lower part of the belly, or pressure upon the bladder or rec- tum, from collected blood, which interfered with the functions of these parts. Nowhere could the probe detect any opening, by which, as in the coherent nymphse of children, a passage from the neighbourhood of the ori- fice of the urethra could be traced behind the cohesion to the canal. But into this said orifice of the urethra, first the probe, then one and two fin- gers passed into the bladder with the greatest facility, the woman evincing no pain or surprise at the rough liberties thus taken with her bladder. The very extraordinary size of the urinary orifice and canal, is best ex- plained by a hint at its equally extraordinary cause,—by shortly reminding the intelligent reader that this young woman was a married person. On enquiry, it appeared that she never had been subject to any attack of an inflammatory nature about the genitals, which were, saving the ure-