FEMORAL ENTEROCELE, OBSTRUCTED' BY OMENTAL ADHESIONS. 69 and as he had not lately made water, I begged him to do so, in my pre- sence ; in an instant the tumour was gone—it was a hernia of the bladder, which had passed from the pelvis, in consequence of the great relaxation of the parts, induced by the double hernia, which of course had preceded and caused it. Mr. B. had in his own person, therefore, a curious assemblage of diffe- rent herniae, a triple rupture on one side; an enterocele, with its sac en- closed in the sac of an epiplocele, and behind these had descended the cystocele. CASE II. Strangulated Femoral Enterocele, with unusual adhesions of the Omentum, ivhich prevented its return. It was a fat female patient, who resided at Climperwell, in this coun- ty, and who had laboured under symptoms of strangulated hernia for three days when I saw her. She was extremely weak, vomited stercoraceous matter incessantly, had no motion, with great pain at the stomach, and considerable tenderness of the abdomen. In the bend of the right groin was a tumour of an unu- sual shape for a hernia. It was more than five inches long, and extended from the inferior spine of the ilium, to the top of the thigh. Its greatest breadth was in the middle, where it might be nearly two inches wide, gra- dually tapering towards the extremities. In cutting down to the sac, a prodigious thickness of fat was divided, and as the dissection was cautiously continued, a bit of this was touched which appeared rather whiter and harder than that previously cut. In fact it was a piece of the omentum, touched with the knife, which encoun- tered no sac in front of the hernia, none at least was visible; probably it was so blended with the fat as not to be distinguished by the most careful examination. With some trouble a finger was introduced into a cavity, and run up upon the face of a small portion of omentum. Having exposed the long tumour within the sac, partially concealed by this omentum, it certainly had a singular appearance. It lay like the colon in size, of a whitish colour, and about five inches long; and yet, upon