102 SACCULATED STONE LEFT. blister was directed, to cover the whole of the lower portion of the abdo- men. He was placed in the warm bath after the leeches dropped off; the bleeding was considerable. In the evening, he had had ten stools; his belly was much less swol- len, he had been vomiting twice, the pain and tenderness much diminished. His pulse, 78, was reduced to 45. Tongue still furred, brown, but not dry. A clyster, with a little infusion of senna and sixty drops of lauda- num, was ordered. On the following morning (the sixth from the opera- tion) the swelling and pain of the belly were nearly gone; he had been sick once,— had had five stools,—pulse 73,—slept four hours. On the fifth day, in the evening, his pulse had risen to 88, and struck sharp and forcibly against the finger; his tongue was dry, and he was more restless, he had had one stool. Seventeen ounces of blood were taken from his arm, twelve leeches were applied to the epigastric region, where he confessed, upon a close cross examination, that he felt some pain and ten- derness. I say cross examined, because it was clear he wished not to be bled any more. He was desired to take sulphate of magnesia every hour until he was purged. On the sixth morning his pulse was softer, though nearly as frequent; his pain, he declared, was gone, he had had twelve stools; his belly was no- where tender, tongue more moist. For the first time, this old man's countenance began to wear rather a haggard look, but his eye was still bright, he spoke firmly, and with confi- dence that he should recover. He was right. Strength was regained slow- ly, and he was ultimately discharged cured. The foregoing case may be interesting, from the extent of the means successfully employed to remove the peritonitis in so aged a person, and from a sacculated stone being left in the bladder with safety. In four days he lost thirty-five ounces of blood, had fifty-four leeches, and was freely purged;—moreover, he endured great pain. But here was a calm, courageous, and somewhat indifferent state of feeling, and if dan- ger was apprehended, little was cared about the result. The patient had not the irritable quickness, the varying and wearing hopes and fears of the sensitive mind, which sees danger in every change, and suffers death many times before its real approach. Had he possessed the latter character, his