120 PAIN IN NERVE RETURNS, AFTER A MERE DIVISION OF IT. sympathetic affections of the nerves, which, however, ought to be done be- fore a surgeon would be justified in recommending so severe an operation as the excision of the nerve itself. The disease of the artery, in the foregoing case of Chambers, was the probable source of the affection of the nerves, for the same train of painful effects about the head was observed in two cases of aneurism by anastamosis, which are described in the Med. and Chir. Trans, one by Mr. Dalrymple, and the other by Mr. Travers. There was, however, a difference in the result, when the aneurism was destroyed. In the two examples alluded to the pains passed away with the disease, never to return. In the case of Chambers they did return, though entirely suspended for a time by the cross-cut, and destruction of the vascular tumour;—but they were not removed, to return no more, until the skull-scraping process probably carried away the offending branches of nerves. The suspension of pain by the cross-cut, was characteristic of the ner- vous disease, and was followed by the same result as a similar operation formerly done on the sub-orbitary nerve, when affected by tic douloreaux, viz. as soon as the divided nerve re-united, its morbid sensibility returned. Since the foregoing case I have read another in the Med. and Chir. Review, of Mr. Syme's, which exactly resembled it. The treatment was different. Mr. Syrae placed a ligature on the cardiac side of the tumour only. The effect was, that the disease returned, from the communication of vessels on the other side of it: which return would probably have been prevented by placing a ligature on that side also close to the tumour, which plan succeeded so well in the case of Chambers. I say probably prevent- ed, because it is possible, though not very likely, that vessels of communi- cation might even then have crept in between the two ligatures, as must have been the case with Mr. R , described by John Bell, supposing that the surgeon in that case had really tied the diseased portion of artery at each end of the tumour. In Mrs. T , Mr. Syme's patient, the same noises in the head and the same kind of pains existed as in those of Messrs. Dalrymple and Travers, and in the foregoing case of Hester Cham- bers,—but which, unlike the last, departed altogether with the destruction of the aneurismal tumour.