ai PROLAPSUS ANI FROM STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM, There was an abscess on the right side of the rectum, that appeared to have arisen from the painful irritation of the gut, which was discovered to have descended and resided almost constantly within the occasionally pain-^ ful gripe of the sphincter, but never passed through it so as to be seen externally. The operation for the prolapsus, therefore, had either been incomplete, (enough of skin not having been removed to produce a sufficient contraction or check to the descent of the bowel,) or this latter circumstance was the effect of great straining at stool, from some causes seated higher in the canal. This cause was probably a stricture, from the small size of the stools, their difficult passage, the filling of the colon with air above the left groin, which was often painful, and from this air never, or scarcely ever, passing downwards. But I was compelled to attend to the abscess first. This, with the gut, which was bare from the destruction of the cellular membrane in its neigh- bourhood, was opened, and some portions of loose skin removed, which were very distinct in the usual place. Before the wound was healed, this lady came to Gloucester, to be sa- tisfied on the score of the suspected stricture. One was discovered at four inches and a half, which is not wholly removed, though a bougie of a mode- rate size is passed three times a week. No recurrence of the procidentia has taken place hitherto, and it is probable that none will, since the patient can have no occasion to strain so much, (from the removal of the obstruction in the gut,) and the barrier at the sphincter is firmer and more complete. In my own practice, the prolapsus ani has occurred much more fre- quently in females than in males, in the proportion of seven to one; a fact that may probably be accounted for on the ground of their relaxed texture, and indulgence in physic, which must ever weaken and relax the parts con- cerned in this very distressing and disgusting complaint. ADDITIONAL CASE. Prolapsus Ani, from a Stricture of the Rectum. Feb. 28. Mrs. , of this city, consults me for an appearance at the anus, and for a great difficulty in passing her motions, which she as-