95 FATAL ABSCESS PROM VIOLENCE. " It seemed that the hemorrhage was from the bladder, but this we could not fully ascertain. The peritoneum was generally inflamed, but there was no other unnatural appearance. "I do not, upon a review of this case, see any thing which could have been done in addition to, or variation from the means used, unless it was that I should have made a more free wound in the muscles, (/' 1 had been aware of the size of the stone. For though the resistance was apparently altogether in this bladder, yet it is probable that the wound in that organ would have been sufficient, and the opening would have dilated, if I had, by a very free and large incision through the muscles, removed all support to resistance, which the bladder itself had given." There can be no doubt of the original incisions being imperfect in this case, that room enough was not obtained by them to transmit the stone easily, and that the attempt to force a passage, lacerated the bladder, and produced fatal peritonitis. The hemorrhage was great, but had no share in producing the death of the patient. On the contrary, it was a likely means of preventing or checking the growth of the peritoneal inflammation which followed; and that it did not accomplish this desirable event, furnishes an additional, and most powerful reason for our being constantly upon our guard to avoid vio- lence, which may produce an inflammation, so often intractable, and quickly fatal. In the present case it was scarcely controlled by the loss of more than three pints of blood;—its undoubted origin was the violent working of the forceps. The case has other points of interest, which the reader will readily discover and appreciate. CASE VIII. Case of Peritonitis from violence in operation; from ivhich the patient partly recovered, thoug h he ultimately perished of Abscess of the Pelvis and Kidney. " I cut a boy of ten years old. He lost a good deal of blood in the ope- ration, from a branch of the pudica. In the evening his pulse was fre- quent, but in other respects he was doing well. In the night he complain-