REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. 25 Cheselden. But even this method is sufficiently difficult and tedious. The orifice of the hole through the gland cannot always be easily discovered by the head of the probe, and then you have to tighten each thread separate- ly. The mode I have adopted is one which renders all inconvenience to the operator from the irritability of the fauces impossible. This is done by first separating the jaws of the patient by means of a dilator, so that when the fauces are teazed by the fingers of the surgeon, the first shall not be bitten, nor the latter interrupted in his operation by the patient shutting the mouth. Before the dilator is fixed, a packer's noose, made of small w hip-cord should be prepared. This is effected by making a single knot upon one end of the thread; this end, with the knot, is to be brought forward upon the other, so as to make a single noose upon itself, including the other, and to be drawn tight upon it close to the first knot. The free end of the thread is then to be passed through the ring of the simple instrument used by Mr. Chevalier, to tighten the knot. See his plate, 3rd Vol. Med. and Chir. Transactions. So far, I go with Mr. Chevalier. The dilator is now fixed ; the jaws are well open. The assistant seizes the tonsil with a double hook, on which hangs the noose. This last, with the ring appended to it, is held by the surgeon himself. Now the assistant must pull the tonsil from its loose bed in a diagonal direction across the mouth; its base becomes elongated, the noose is slipped over it, and carried by the fingers of the surgeon close around it: the l ing is then run up to the gland, and the ligature tightened, which is repeated daily till the tonsil drops off, which it does in a few days. It may be supposed that this simple mode of noosing a tonsil could not be carried into effect where the base of the gland is very wide. But it is surprising how forcibly pulling out this pai t from its bed, will contract the base of it by elongation. Now and then it may so happen that tlie base would be too broad for the noose; I can only say, however, that I have never yet met with a tonsil with a base that would not yield to elongation, and, therefore, that could not be noosed in the w^ay described. If the surgeon be bold, and dexterous with his fingers, the whole ope- ration is done with a rapidity and effect very different to the long and worrying mode pointed out by Cheselden, or the ingenious improvement of Mr. Chevalier. E