59 PROLAPSUS ANI FROM STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. as anterior to the operation. So far the operation had been useful; but she declared that the difficulty of passing her stools was more great and distress- ing than ever. To a question whether for some time previous to the falling of the bowel, she had been accustomed to costiveness and difficulty in the passage of her stools ? she replied without hesitation, that for years this had been the case, and also that her stools were very small in diameter, and scarcely ever passed without the aid of medicine. On examination, the anus had a natural appearance, but on request- ing her to bear down, a portion of bowel descended surrounded by a pendu- lous flap of skin, so that, on returning the protrusion, the fingers easily followed in its track. The sphincter was relaxed, but there was nothing within the reach of my finger that could impede the passage of the faeces, nor was the gut itself unsound. A bougie, however, previously softened and bent, discovered a stric- ture, at a distance of five inches, which has hitherto resisted all attempts to pass it. This lady has wandering pains about the lower parts of the abdomen, loins, and lower in the back. The whole alimentary canal is disordered from the interruption given by the stricture of the rectum to the perfect circu- lation of its contents:—the stomach is injured, digestion is imperfect, and there is considerable pain in the left groin. The head sympathises with this disturbance of the digestive organs—she is nervous—confused—and giddy. March 10. A bougie at length passes the stricture, and when the operation for the prolapsus has been performed, she will probably recover, after years of suffering. This case furnishes another example of the propriety of tracing, if pos- sible, the causes of prolapsus ani, and especially whether there be a stricture of the rectum, which, by inducing great striving at stool, will produce it, or at least, in co-operation with the more ordinary causes, will have a prin- cipal share in producing it. No examination of the rectum, (of a kind likely to discover a stricture at a distance of five inches from the anus) was made by the eminent sur- geon who had here operated for the prolapsus.