70 PREVENTS THE RETURN OF THE BOWEL WHICH IS OPENED. close inspection, the fine ramifications of blood-vessels, which distinguish an intestine were not visible. At its upper extremity, near the ilium, it had adhered so strongly to the sac, as to require considerable force to se- parate the two parts. At last, after a minute examination, it was sufficiently clear that this was a piece of intestine surrounded by omentum, which fitted it like a glove upon a finger, so closely as not to obscure the natural round and smooth character of intestine; in fact, upon tracing the omentum towards the inferior portion of the prolapsed part, I came upon the intestine, which was of a darker colour, nearly black, and contrasted strongly with the dirty white colour of the omentum, which was glued to it. It was impossible to separate any point of the omentum from the in- testine ; the most delicate and careful dissection would have been unavail- ing. The prolapsed part was so tense and incompressible, that, apparently, the angle was very acute where the gut doubled. The femoral ligament, under which the rupture had passed, was cut. Not the least impression could even then be made upon its contents, which were probably air, and some effusion. The obstruction of the gut was, therefore, still entire. Again and again, but in vain, was an opening sought for, by which I could make a beginning to clear the gut of its obstinate companion, that so closely and fatally embraced it. I carried my finger into the belly in all di- rections, for information—to tear asunder—but to no purpose. The parts were left in the wound unreturned, after being well satisfied that no stricture from the ligament or sac acted upon them; though it was to be feared that those from the adhesions would continue to interrupt the passage through the doubled intestine. On the following day the symptoms of strangulation remained the same—pain in the belly—^vomiting and constipation—with the addition of great tenderness of the whole abdomen—a haggard and subdued expression of countenance—feeble pulse, and great prostration of strength. Delay now would have been worse than trifling. An incision was made, into the prolapsed part, of three inches long, and some faeces escaped, but so little, that it was probable that concealed adhesions interrupted, at some unknown point above, the circulation from the belly to the opening now made in the bowel.