GENERALLY FROM THE FORCEPS, 61 If hospital surgeons, who do this operation most frequently, were to report the failures they have witnessed, and the circumstances which atten- ded them, much might be done towards abbreviating the sufferings, and preserving the lives of patients. The history of failures is, perhaps, more valuable than that of successful cases. Dissection will trace the causes of death, with the errors committed, and point out how, in future, they can be avoided, so as to lead to more precision, and certainty of a successful termination. A broken down sufferer of many years, who has made up his mind to submit to a terrible operation, the climax of pain and punishment, relying on our skill, judgment, and humanity, for its being safely done, should be considered as a patient of the whole profession. He has placed life, his last and most precious stake in its hands; and every member, whose expe- rience allows him an opportunity, should not hesitate to contribute his mite to its preservation, by recounting, as warnings, the failures that he has beheld. It will be found that their main source is violence, generally, though not always from the forceps, on whose blade should be engraven the motto, " Gardez bien." This violence is often unnecessary, for it is better to cut, than to bruise or lacerate, in the extraction of large calculi; to cut the bladder again and again, than to tear it open. On this principle was derived the great success which attended the operations of that cele- brated lithotomist, Klein. That it is the forceps which is the great agent of destruction, in the larger number of cases, is clear, from looking carefully over the sizes of the stones extracted by the late Mr. Martineau. He encountered no very des- perate cases,—he was thus as fortunate as he proved skilful. Out of eighty-four cases, the two largest stones weighed each four ounces only, and one of these patients was lost. Why ? Because the for- ceps had too much to do in the extraction. When the stones were small, which in his great experience was remarkably the case, the forceps had very little to do. Hence his extraordinary success, and the detection of the true source of destruction. Mr. Martineau, therefore, could never be justly quoted as an authority for violence in lithotomy. He seldom had occasion, from the size of the stones, to employ it; but when he had, he lost his patients like other surgeons. M