32 CARTILAGINOUS STRICTURE. several times without success. Indeed, after the last time, he could swal- low nothing, and it was discontinued at his own request. In vain was an elastic hollow tube attempted, or the ivory balls with whalebone handles ; all were turned back by the stricture. The w^eak whalebone one bent against it; and to use another suffici- ently strong to overcome the obstruction, or rather to have a mere chance of doing it, would have injured the back of the pharynx, against which it must have rested heavily to be bent, the spring of the material always tending to act partially and with great force, on every point down the track of the oesophagus, on the posterior surface of that tube. I now curved as a last resource, a large hollow urethra metallic bougie, to the shape of the fauces, and having first taken an accurate mea- sure of the distance of the stricture from the teeth, and marked it upon this new instrument; I attempted and did succeed in passing the ob- struction. With the side of the instrument (it was certain no harm could be so done,) I rather freely acted right and left, to make more room. This was obtained; he swallowed almost immediately. For a week afterwards he got down some ounces of meat in a day, and drank his ale freely. In truth, flesh and strength were gained. But he became too sanguine, and therefore careless, went out and caught cold. I had passed the instrument every other day, without there being occasion for any farther lateral motions of it, and all was doing well, when on this day, the eighth from the dilatation, the bougie would not pass ; the patient was feverish, his throat was sore and the fauces swollen. Now the larynx sympathised with the inflamed fauces, and he breathed laboriously. In his weakened state it was painful to be obliged to bleed him, and yet I felt justified in leeching the outside of the neck I could not willingly venture to pass the instrument to make room whilst the glottis threatened a spasm, which, in his reduced condition, would have proved instantly fatal: and thus he became suddenly weak, and it was evident he must perish soon, if something were not done. I however again attempted and succeeded in introducing the tube, and, as it occurred to me in the instant, I fed him through it with egg wine, first with an ear syringe, and afterwards with Weiss's pump. But it was too late; his courage, though of the finest order, was useless; his eye glimmered with joy at the prospect of being