DIAGNOSIS BEST CLEARED BY STUDY AND OBSERVATION. 12& embarrassing; he could not say whether the tumour begun at the bottom of the scrotum. The indentation across its centre proved to be the border or termination of the cyst, where its edges rested upon the true hydrocele with its thickened tunic, as it formed the lower mass of tumour. From the extraordinary size of the veins, a cursory observer might have confounded this great scrotal tumour with fungous haematodes of the testis, if he did not immediately recollect that this circumstance might be ac- counted for, from the great mass of solid material soliciting an unusual quan- tity of blood to the part, which, in its return, must necessarily enlarge the veins. There can be no doubt that the appearance is more peculiar to vas- cular tumours, especially to the fungus hsematodis, but then an enquiry into the history of this particular tumour would clear away all suspicion. It had not the feel of the fungoid disease of the testis in its early stages, nor its size or shape, nor the occasional lancinating pains, nor the peculiar, sallow, hag- gard, and horrifying expression of countenance of that fatal affection. The great length of time too which the tumour had existed without change w as a proof of its innocence; though Sir A. Cooper says that this malignant fun- gus will maintain its harmless character for years;—but surely while it does so it cannot properly be called fungus hsematodis. Sir A. Cooper states, that such is sometimes the difficulty of distin- guishing affections about the testis, that he sees no harm in puncturing doubtful tumours with a lancet, to ascertain their nature. If in some cases the patient sustains no injury from such practice,—its adoption is unques- tionably an admission of our ignorance of those minute and delicate fea- tures of character which belong to such affections, and by the knowledge of which they can be distinguished from each other. Such knowledge may probably be always acquired by attending closely to their early history, and the subsequent progress, together with careful and repeated manipulations. Perhaps it is to be regretted that such high authority should have de- livered an opinion which may be mischievous; inasmuch as the young- surgeon instead of taking the slow and laborious method of deep investiga- tion, might be tempted to thrust his lancet into this important part, in all cases that may appear the least doubtful, and quote the influential name of Sir A. Cooper as his authority. s