45 THE INTERIOR OPERATION. a silk ligature, which is drawn gufEciently tight to produce adhesive inflam- mation, which unites this fold of inner membrane to the muscular coat of the rectum above, after the reduction of the fold and its ligature has been effected. For, after the ligature has been cut close to its knot on one side, the fold of intestine is returned to its proper place through the anus, leaving the other portion of the ligature hanging out of it. This will come away in a few days, with the stools, the passing of which is very painful for a few times. Great pain will often follow this operation, which is very alarming, requiring opium in considerable doses; but it is asserted that no danger is annexed to it from the supervention of inflammation. I cannot well under- stand this; the gut itself is tied, and tightly, and pain, the effect of this violence upon so delicate a part, always follows, and if inflammation under such circumstances does not sometimes succeed, it is a very surprising cir- cumstance. At all events, the pain and suffering after this operation is an objection to it, of which the exterior one is devoid, when properly done. To wound,, irritate, or commit violence Tipon the tender bowel is surely wrong; you can succeed without any such serious inflictions of injury. In general it may be, as it is said, that this interior operation does not produce danger. Some persons may have been bled in a vein repeatedly, without danger following, and then, upon wounding its inner lining in another, it inflames, and he dies of phlebitis. In the same way, I must suspect that inflammation may now and then be propagated along the mucous lining of the bowel, and enteritis succeed; but here there is no such obligation to injure this lining, which in bleeding is unavoidable. Another objection to this mode of operating is, that in a large prolap- sus, the fold or folds taken up by the ligature must be more extensively done, increasing the risk of inflammation in a proportionate degree: and lastly, when the ligature employed has not been drawn sufliciently tight to ensure the adhesive process, the complaint will probably return, which I understand is a frequent occurrence. To the external operation by excision there is one objection—it is sometimes followed by hemorrhage. Out of fifty cases, I have seen only a single example of this kind in which there was danger. But this very danger could have been avoided, in that, (as it can in all others of the