115 CURED BY EXCISING OR REMOVING THE NERVES. It seemed highly probable, in this case, that there was a morbid affec- tion of some nerve; and it was conjectured that it must have its seat in the portio dura of the seventh pair. Sometimes her pulse was frequent, but it was always small. No treatment was of service. She remained in the house till the latter end of December, when she was advised to return to the use of leeches, and to apply them to the parts frequently. This was done, but without relief. The woman at length begged that some operation might be performed by way of attempting her cure, her sufferings being dreadful; and one was executed, from the experience of the relief she had found from the former operations. It was determined, not only to make an incision, but to re- move a portion of scalp and pericranium, to scrape the skull with a rugine, and make perforations in it; not indeed through the substance of the bone, but perhaps as far as the diploe. On the twenty-third of January this operation was performed. The scalp was removed for the space of three inches in length,—beginning at the mastoid process, and going upwards,—and half an inch, or an inch, in breadth. The cranium was bored with a terebra, to produce, if possible, exfoliation and granulations. All her pain left her immediately,—but in the evening, noises in the head, giddiness, deafness, and other symptoms which have been described as succeeding the last operation, took place, though in a slight degree. Leeches were repeatedly applied to the mastoid process. The pain in her head soon left her, and returned no more in the part which had lately been the seat of it; but, before the wound was healed, the pain became vio- lent, and in a line close to the posterior and inferior boundary of the mas- toid process. March 20th. A deep incision was made, about two inches in length, on the lowermost edge of the mastoid process,—beginning from that point, and carrying it backward,— going so deep as to cut some of the fibres of the trapezius. The pain instantly ceased; but a singing in the ear, ear-ache, together with some of the former symptoms, returned in a slight degree. April 9th. She was discharged, perfectly cured. May 5th. This young woman remains well, but she has no sensibility in the greater part of the scalp on. the affected side of the head.