99 A ROUGH METHOD OF OPERATING. foregoing cases at least, there is no proof that such was the fact. Marks of unnecessary injury were visible in all which were examined, and which satisfactorily account for the death of the patients. But, to prove that ex- cessive irritability of constitution, excited by a more gentle operation, was the cause of one or other of the destructive morbid affections which destroy life after it, it would be necessary to shew that no marks of excessive vio- lence could be traced upon the parts by dissection. There is one particular case in which the mark, or proof, is left only in the constitution. Circumstances will sometimes arise, which will unfor- tunately cause a protraction of the ordinary or necessary violence to be continued for a very long period. Here the nervous power is exhausted by the long continued irritation; the patient never rallies, but, in a few days, drops, without a struggle, into the grave. In the first case detailed, or that of a large stone, but where the open- ings by the knife were made very free, the violence used in extracting it cannot well be called unnecessary; for, unless there are certain means in the power of the surgeon to break the stone, (which is not the fact,) he must either pull it away by main force, or leave it in the bladder. The last is rarely done, if the surgeon's personal strength is sufficient to accom- plish this deed of butchery. But such is human nature, that it is much to be feared the patient's safety is not enough considered amidst the desperate and excited feelings of the moment, which occupy the mind of the sur- geon : — self-love and pride are awakened, and he will too often be eagerly thinking,—if he thinks at all,—of success, come how it will, rather than al- low his reputation to be disgraced, by not obtaining possession of the stone. This, in the refined language of modern times, would be called a moral weakness,—but perhaps there is an error in the term, could it be shewn that, at such a fearful period, the surgeon was quite master of his understanding. But why, it is humbly enquired, is the lateral operation performed at all, where the stone has been ascertained to be above the safe size for ex- traction in that direction? It is surely any-thing but a scientific operation to force a rough stone, by such a route, as big as your fist, through an aper- ture, in a delicate and important part of the human body, only one inch wide ! But, if you have done this yourself?—True ; and all I can plead is the