STRANGULATED, IRREDUCIBLE, CONGENITAL HERNIA. 71 Convinced that by removing all stricture upon this part, within reach, and opening it freely, so as to give an opportunity for the contents of the bowels to escape, (by the confinement of which the symptoms were sus- tained,) it was presumed that all was done that the present state of our knowledge would warrant, I took leave of the patient, with a painful con- viction that I should see her, living, no more. With some surprise a summons was received on the following day, to visit her as soon as possible. All her bad symptoms were gone. More than three quarts of fiseculent matter had passed away through the opening in the bowel. She recovered, at the time, with an artificial anus. With any other subsequent circumstances of the case I am unacquainted. Her death oc- curred within twelve months after the operation, but from causes unknown to me. Had it been possible, it would not have been good practice to have returned the intestine bound up in coils by such close and universal adhe- sions, which appeared when my finger passed through the inguinal canal, to be continued onwards beyond its reach into the abdomen. The air and secretions within the bowel, pent up by these adhesions, vastly increased the bulk of it, so that to have returned it would have been impossible, and if possible, imprudent. I can, however, conceive a case of some forms of adhesion, confined to the sac, and within sight, which prevent the return of the part after the liberation of the stricture, where pricking the intestine with a needle, and emptying it, with the chance of returning the part thus diminished in bulk, leaving the little openings towards the wound, would be preferable (though probably dangerous) to the certainty of saving life at the expence of a disgusting artificial anus. CASE HI. Strangulated, irreducible, congenital Hernia, in ivJiich the Testicle was distinguishable externally. The Omentum removed. A man from Painswick was admitted under my estimable predecessor with a scrotal hernia, of which the following history was given. That he