PERITONITIS, FROM LACERATED BLADDER. 93 endure- For the explanation of the greater success of lithotomy in children cannot be in their superior power of bearing suffering. Their irritability is greater, their nervous system sooner excited : and hence, in dentition, and in irritations within the alimentary canal, are we often obliged to witness the most distressing sufferings. It is probable that the majority of deaths from lithotomy, in young children, is from the blow inflicted on the ner- vous power by the necessary severity of the operation, and not from in- flammatory actions set up by it. In the second part of these sketches will be detailed some fatal cases, arising out of the irritability of children, especially from the application of blisters, and this will be done without any intention of supporting or advo- cating, by their publication, the practice of Mr. St. John Long, whose pa- tients, however, were not children, though a certain impertinent noble lord has,—possibly from a highly culpable belief in their credulity,—most un- gallantly bestowed that term upon them. In the same part will be detailed a successful method the author em- ployed to pass a stone from the bladder, of the size concerned in the fore- going case, without cutting, or forceps, but which could not consistently appear here, in the midst of a note devoted to failures. CASE VII. Death from Peritonitis, the effect of a lacerated Sladder from Violence in the Operation. The two following cases are in the words of my predecessor, who, it is well known, was an excellent and a successful lithotomist. " I operated, in lithotomy, on a tall, well made man, twenty-nine years of age, who had been upwards of two years suffering severely from the stone, but, though somewhat emaciated, and apparently of an irritable con- stitution, he appeared by no means an improper subject for the operation. " In the introduction of the conductor I met with some resistance. I am not certain whether it was from my not having divided the muscles with sufficient freedom, and consequently the urethra close to the prostate gland, or from my pressing the beak of the conductor with too much force against the