124 GREAT HARDNESS OF THE TUMOUR of its coverings, become the kind of tumour already described. This extra- vasated blood, deposited any-where about the scrotum, may be the origin of similar tumours in any situation about the testis,—which would be detected more or less easily, according to the relative position, and the size and form of the swelling, which it is presumed must long since have become chronic, and marked by the peculiar characters already described. CASE I. Chronic Encysted Tumour above the Testis. Powell Sparrow, aged forty-eight, appeared at the Hospital with a tu- mour of the scrotum, about the size of a very large orange, and of an irregu- lar shape. It was, however, composed of two tumours, for near the lower extremity there was a slight indentation, marking faintly their separation, like that of the encysted hydrocele of the cord with the testis at the bot- tom, but not in so distinct or characteristic a manner. The lower projec- tion was certainly much smaller than the upper, it had a transparent look, and was tender to the touch. The upper swelling was comparatively in- sensible, had an opaque appearance, and felt very hard and resisting. The projection then appeared to be continued to the sides and back of the scrotum, around which could everywhere be felt the same kind of firm, and insensible mass. Of course there was no evidence of the testis being in its usual place; but this organ, I had no doubt, from the tenderness to the touch, was in the projection at the bottom of the tumour. (See Plate.) Upon enquiry, it appears that he injured this part forty years ago, in jumping on a horse, that he then felt an acute pain shooting upwards into his belly, which lasted for an hour, and that he never experienced any pain since that period. Some swelling followed the accident, which remained stationary until a week or two before he applied for advice, when a further enlargement took place, accompanied by occasional slight throbbing pains, with tenderness to the touch. The man himself was in perfect health. The hardness of the upper portion of this tumour was the most em- barrassing circumstance of its character ; it had the impenetrable feeling of a scirrhus, but without its irregularity, or peculiar pains;—its surface was