114 NEURALGIC SYMPTOMS RETURN. entirely. In the evening, soon after the operation, an internal head-ache came on, with a sense of violent burning all over the head, especially in front of it. Her pulse was slow and weak, tongue excessively dry and brown, and she was extremely giddy and thirsty. Some fever medicines were ordered, and a blister. 30th. Eleven, A. M.—tongue moister, but much furred. July 1st. Complains still the same; is, however, less thirsty. Now and then she has catchings of the neck and arms. Nine, P. M.— except- ing that her tongue is moister, she is as ill as ever, and complains of an in- creased burning heat all over her head, but has not the least return or re- mains of the original pain. Cold applications to the head. The head felt hotter to the touch than the other parts of the body. The day after the operation, the edges of the wound looked very pale, and there was no appearance of inflammation or swelling. 2nd. Rather easier, though some pain still continuing.—Blisters to the temples, with James's powders every night. 9th. She has been mending; the appetite is pretty good; her thirst is less ; but she complains still of some pain of the head. 10th. Since the last note leeches have been repeatedly applied to the head, with some relief. She has lost the pain in the part where the late in- cision was made—but it has returned with still increased violence near the spot where the first incision was made and the ligatures passed round the vessel which was enlarged. It has not been mentioned, (though it may be worthy of notice,) that after the last operation, a degree of deafness came on, with the other nervous affections above described. Pressure upon the part now attacked, as in the former instance, suspends the patient's suffer- ings, but the moment it is removed, the pain returns. No unnatural state of the integuments or deeper seated parts can be detected, either by the sight, or the touch. She described her pain as accompanied with a burning heat, very in- tense, in a spot of about two fingers in breadth, and extending from the mastoid process for about three inches upwards, though with less severity, to the top of her head; and penetrating in depth, as she said, "to her very brains."