INFLAMMATION BY MODERATE VIOLENCE. 109 lar to sand-stone, and possessed a volatile effluvia. Cap. Tinct. Opii, g. xxx. 12 A. M.—tolerably free from pain, except a slight smarting at the wound. Pulse rather full. 3 P. M.—patient asleep. 5 P. M.—said he was quite free from pain. The urine has passed freely through the wound. Pulse rather frequent. 16th. 10 A. M.—slept at intervals of about half an hour during the night, awakened by the passage of the water through the wound. 17th. Pulse increased in size and frequency, skin hot and dry, tongue slightly brown, mouth parched, slight tenderness upon pressure on the lower part of the abdomen; relieved by fomentations;—cap. Ol. Ricin. ^oz.—repeated during the evening, the first dose not having the desired effect. Free from pain all night, pulse slower, still thirsty. 18th. Is in much pain, there is tenderness about the abdomen, pulse quick—tongue very white—skin hot and dry—has had three stools, produ- ced by a dose of castor oil during the day. Ordered a warm bath. In the afternoon the pulse was slower, and the tenderness and pain about the ab- domen relieved. 19th. Free from pain, full and quick pulse, tongue cleaner. 21st. Clay-coloured stools, other symptoms as yesterday. 24th. Rather better, appetite improved. 25th. Passed some water through the natural canal for the first time, to-day. August 2nd. He has rigours, his appetite is gone. 5th. In a very weak state, and rather feverish,—wound discharges very freely, and somewhat suddenly. 12th. Wound discharges profusely; Mr. F. said an abscess had burst: looses flesh very fast. 19th. Better,—upon pressure of the belly matter flows out largely through the wound, and apparently through the anus. July 20th, 1823. Several collections of matter have taken place, and burst externally in several places in the region of the bladder, above the pubes, previously to Sept. 31, 1822. He has had, through the winter, a slight, short cough; no expectoration accompanied it. His appetite and general health were for a time bad, but are now much improved, and the