15 FROM AN IRRITABLE BRONCHOCELE. CASE X. Spasmodic stricture of the Glottis, from a small instable JBroncliocele. Elizabeth Cooke, of Corse, had a swelling on the left lobe of the thyroid gland, not bigger than a small walnut, which might be called bronchocele, or a tumor of this gland. She said it was painful when handled, but at or- dinary times not so, except when she took cold, or was otherwise unwell, and then the tumor would increase in bulk, become regularly painful, and exquisitely tender to the touch. At such times too, she said, her breathing became strangely and unusually affected, so as to threaten suffocation, the fear of which brought her to my house for advice. Upon handling this swelling pretty freely, she put away my hand instantly, breathed convulsive- ly, drawing air very distinctly and noisily, through a narrowed glottis. The occasionally increased size of the tumor from cold, which raised the temperature, and increased its sensibility, induced me to order a bleed- ing from the arm; but it appeared that attention to the stomach and bowels, and the employment of tonics, especially the subcarbonate of iron, in doses of two drachms twice a day, was of the most service, in diminish- ing the extraordinary irritability of this tumor. CASE XL Spasmodic stricture of the Glottis from Laryngitis. A medical friend of mine, about fifty years of age, sent for me in the night, with a message that he feared he should be suffocated. I found him sitting up in bed, an expression of alarm on his countenance, and breathing with great difhculty, though regularly, that is, without those sudden exacerbations which indicate spasm of the muscles of the larynx. He however said, that before my arrival he had a more than common diffi- culty of breathing, that terrified him exceedingly, and s,o fearful was he of its return, that he would not permit his daughter to leave his bedside, where she was stationed to prevent his going to sleep, vthe fit, as he called it, having taken place during that period. His pulse was quick, and full;