PULSATING TUMOUR ON THE SIDE OF THE HEAD, 116 It is abundantly clear, that the first operation in the foregoing case succeeded in curing the disease of the artery, which apparently consisted of a tumour, produced, in a great degree, by a simple enlargement or dila- tation of its sides. This vessel probably had given way, and admitted some blood to pass into the cellular membrane, between it and the skin. At this time doubt- less it was that the profuse hemorrhage took place, and to it may also be ascribed the origin of the bloody looking warty excrescence on the outside of the dilated artery. There might have been a congeries of cells, forming this excrescence, and in communication with the vessel, in the manner described by the late Mr. John Bell. Although the exact nature of the disease itself may not have been correctly described by that gentleman, yet the term is correct, for the tumour may be, and frequently is, sustained by anastamosis. The success of the practice in the foregoing case is a proof of the prin- ciple being good on which it was founded, — viz. starving the disease, or intercepting the current of blood into it, by ligatures applied close to the bloody tumour, or enlarged artery, at both extremities; for unless they are so applied, on the immerging and emerging vessel or vessels, there will be room for collaterals to reach the disease, between it and the single ligatui-e, and thus sustain the tumour and promote its growth, which it is well known that the free anastamoses of the scalp are remarkably capable of doing. Even when the principal trunks have been secured, at both ends, or on all sides of the tumour, a vagrant vessel or two may creep in between the ligatures, and in time prevent success, by carrying blood enough to renew the pulsation and the disease. To prevent this, all that art would seem capable of effecting in such a case, where the vascular tumour, aneurism by anastamosis, or active naevus has had its main trunk or trunks secured, would be to endeavour to pro- duce the adhesive or obliterating process in the remaining disease, which, already deprived of its strength, or dangerous arterial violence, by ligature, would the more readily yield to secondary measures. Excision itself would be safer, within the ligatures, now that the wild and dangerous throb of the disease had been subdued. But it is not always desirable to employ it;—the deformity and pain are objections. Neither is