TO THE SAC, MAKING A REDUCIBLE RUPTURE, IRREDUCIBLE. 75 sac, inducing a tense tumour, a degree of incarceration from the filling of the protruded part, and consequent tenderness, all of which would subside, when the belly subsided, by the removal of the inflammatory affections. Finally, as the symptoms were, in some measure, subsiding, from the means already employed, that they should be continued rather than per- form an operation to liberate the intestine, which might be unnecessary; and which, by the infliction of additional violence, would probably destroy the patient, should the existing peritoneal inflammation proceed from the blow of the horse. From this day (the sixth) he continued to mend, he had no return of sickness, his belly subsided, his skin became cool, his bowels acted, and the tongue was moist. He had been bled and kept low. On the fourteenth day I took the following note. " The patient is convalescent, the tumour is full and prominent, but it no longer offers its former firm and resisting surface. Upon a delicate handling it sinks, and all can plainly hear the gurgling of air passing into the abdomen. But I do not think the intestine returns to the belly, because, though the tumour has obviously diminished, yet a considerable swelling now remains. The diminution of size being the probable effect of the removal of the peri- toneal inflammation and consequent stricture upon the gut, and which thus permits its contents to pass upwards into the belly." "With the view of the case described, I can account for the intestine remaining, by supposing, that the peritoneal inflammation, the effect of the blow, had been propagated along that membrane, to the sac of the protru- ded intestine, between which an adhesion had taken place. " This man was discharged, apparently well; the hernia down ; but re- turned to the Hospital on the 2nd of February, with his belly swollen, and acutely painful, at times, over its whole surface. At these times, air was felt moving (as he said) along his bowels. There was evidently a fluctua- tion to be distinguished in the peritoneum. He is now in perfect health, but the rupture still down, irreducibly, which was not the case before the accident.