Ill LITHONTRITY AND LITHOTOMY. With regard to the modern practice of destroying the calculus, of bor- ing, splitting, and hammering it to pieces in its soft and tender residence,— time only can discover the real value of the measure. On a first view,^—it must be admitted that first views are frequently erroneous,—and on reading some of the foregoing cases, the reader may probably conclude, that if it were possible to select another spot, he would not choose the human blad- der as a desirable situation for the operation of stone-breaking. They show that the mere irritation of a sound,—and of the closed forceps, in searching for a stone in the bladder, is sufficient to excite fatal inflammation in that organ,—and, in cases where no evidence existed of previous disease in the bladder or prostate gland, which would have pre-disposed those parts to fatal disorganization, under ordinary operating circumstances. Of course the work of death was effected by the irritation of the instruments employ- ed in lithotomy. Will the lithrontritic instruments, under similar circum- stances, prove less irritating? Three cases out of seven, in one gentleman's practice, perished from inflammation of the bladder excited by them. Picked cases, paraded even before our best surgeons, do not furnish, either in kind or degree, the evidence necessary to decide upon the merits of lithontrity, and how far this innovation is likely to supplant or supersede the ancient and successful practice of lithotomy. Great and unbiassed experience of the most unquestionable kind,—faithful and honest narration of facts, plea- sant or unpleasant,—^of successes and failures, fairly intermingled alike,— with a love of truth,—can only decide the question. Evidence too, selected or not selected, should be taken with great caution, when proceeding from interested sources. Lithontrity is chiefly in the hands of those who either get their bread by it, or wish to do so; and it is too much to expect that nature should be the first to cry out against the gratification of her first wants. There is enough of evidence, however, to shew that the new ope- ration bids fair to become a valuable auxiliary, if not a principal, in the treatment of calculi in the bladder; but the proper persons to mark the boundary of its merits, are those who get their bread from other sources. Surgeons generally, and especially hospital surgeons, whose operating ha- bits, and greater experience in calculous affections, especially fit them for the important office of umpires, should no longer hesitate; for it is unquest- ionably both a matter of surprise and regret, that, up to this moment, not one case of lithontrity has been performed by a British surgeon, in a Brit- ish hospital.