21 REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT. The examination should be done quickly and decisively, or otherwise the irritation of the finger will excite a renewal of these very spasms, or increase that difficulty of breathing, the cause of which it is meant to discover. In acute inflammation of some portion of the mucous lining of the wind-pipe, (laryngitis, or cynanche trachealis,) where the cause of this spasm is the most hidden from view, it happens fortunately that its history and ra- pid course sufiiciently indicate the disease, the catarrhal symptoms, from exposure to cold, cough and fever, difiiculty of swallowing, seat of pain and stricture, distinguish it in the beginning from other causes that may Operate to produce in the interior of the throat great difficulty of breathing. The treatment of the foregoing case should, in the commencement, be vigorous in the extreme, for soon will the rima glottidis or trachea be choaked with lymph, or its lining membrane be thickened so as to furnish a mechanical obstruction to the passage of the air, which must greatly add to the danger of suffocation from a supervening violent spasm. Of the fatal case of bronchocele, whose irritability destroyed the pa- tient, it may be inferred that there was no inflammation about the tumor, from the want of increased temperature, the quiet health of the constitution, and the total failure of anti-inflammatory remedies to relieve it. This ex- traordinary irritability, was, as already hinted, probably neuralgic, like unto that condition of the nerves of the face in tic-douleureux, which suffer a paroxysm of pain, from the mere act of eating, emotions of the mind, or morbid sensibility of the nerves of the stomach, excited by improper food. This kind of irritability is more relieved by attention to the state of the stomach and bowels, and by tonics in large doses, than by remedies cal- culated to remove inflammation, as in the second case of irritable broncho- cele already recorded. The difficulty is in distinguishing irritable organs from inflamed ones. They are both often tender to the touch, and painful. But the former al- most invariably occur in persons who possess a low degree of vigour, as in struma, or in those in whom the nervous system has been disturbed by some of the forms of the affection called dyspepsia. If there be howe\ er an increased temperature, with tenderness to the touch, pain, and fever, there may be inflammation superadded, and bleeding becomes necessary, even to an irritable part; although in the case of irritable bronchocele, or