57. PROLAPSUS ANI FROM STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. On straining in imitation of that act, the whole, or nearly so, of the lower extremity of the bowel passed through the sphincter. I replaced it gently, and attempted to introduce my finger, as usual, into its interior for exami- nation. But at about an inch and a half I found a stricture, so narrow as not to admit at first more than the top of my little finger. By subsequent ex- amination, I found the gut to be contracted as far as my finger could reach from the point already named, and so exquisitely tender to the touch, that more than once the patient nearly fainted from the agony she endured. The gut too had thickened very considerably the whole distance the finger could travel, and was evidently in a state of inflammation. She had been subject to difficulty of passing her motions, with the subse- quent burning pains, for many years, and could seldom well succeed without physic; but the tumour or falling of the bowel was of about three years' standing. I had no doubt, from this description, that the stricture by ex- citing straining at stool had prolapsed the lower folds of the bowel, and that the former should be cured before any attempt was made, by operation, to cure the prolapsus. The opinion given, as to the general result, was a cautious one, from the great change the intestine itself had undergone from its natural feel and thickness. The stricture, fortunately, was dilated by a careful use of the bougie, for four months, so as to admit a full size one to pass nearly eleven inches. During this process the patient was constantly crying out for physic —for calomel—for she was bilious, had a liver complaint, and so forth. But I thought she, and her rectum too, had experienced enough of this medicine, the irritating quality of which, upon this part, being too much overlooked in affections of it. I begged her to be content with small doses of castor oil: after one of which I did the operation for the prolapsus ani, which succeeded very well, so that in five months she got rid of very serious complaints, that had ex- isted for a great many years, and from gloomy apprehensions of premature death, this lady's thoughts took another, and a very different direction—she married—and is now become a fine, healthy young woman. I