113 CURED BY LIGATURE AT EACH EXTREMITY. was continued from the base of the tumour, and which distinctly pulsated. After repeated examinations it was clear that there was an aneurism, or dilatation of a small branch of the occipital artery which runs up behind the ear; and though it was not so clear how this should occasion the wo- man's sufferings, yet it was obvious that the tumour and the pains were connected, and it was, therefore, resolved to tie up the dilated artery. By making one pressure at the lower edge of the mastoid process, and another about an inch and a half higher up on the scalp, the woman's sufferings were instantly suspended. The artery was laid bare between these two points, and at eacli of them a ligature was passed underneath it,—the nee- dle carried close to the bone, and a strong ligature made. The artery cut into was found to be dilated to the size of a goose-quill, as it quitted the tumour. The woman instantly lost all her pain, and could immediately swallow with ease. About a month after the operation she was discharged, perfectly well. Hester Chambers returned to the hospital on the 26th of June, thir- teen months after her former discharge. For the last ten weeks she had again suffered a violent pain in the same side of the head which had been formerly affected; it did not, however, now extend towards the neck or lower part of the cranium, but from a spot two or three fingers' breadth a- bove the point where the incision in the former operation commenced; it then extended obliquely upwards, towards the vertex, and there the pain became constant and most severe. No enlargement of any vessel, in the neighbourhood of the pained part, could be discovered. Pressure, how- ever, applied a little above the seat of the pain, instantly suspended all her sufferings. It was now determined to make an incision, though there was no per- ceptible aneurism or varix. On Monday, June 29th, this was done. The incision, two or three inches in length, was made across the part, where pressure being applied suspended the pain. This was continued through the integuments, and part of the fascia of the temporal muscle, which lay underneath the incised scalp. An artery of the scalp bled freely. After allowing the bleeding to continue for some time, it was suppressed by a button of lint. The moment the incision had been made, the pain left her Q