STRANGULATED, IRREDUCIBLE, CONGENITAL HERNIA. 72 had a rupture in his infancy, whicli was cured, but that some years ago it returned, since which he had never been able to return it into the belly, but that the tumour always remained in the scrotum; that five days ago, in straining, a greater quantity of protrusion took place, to the extent of twice its former size; that he vomited, and had pain in his belly, which symptoms were relieved by opening medicine, and although easier, still there was pain and tenderness about the lower part of the belly near the ring. The tumour was very large, rather long than round: at the bottom and posterior part of it the testis was plainly distinguishable. The whole tumour admitted of very rough handling without giving pain, except at the ring, where there was a substance like a small rope, hard, and tender to the touch. There was evidently a sense of fluctuation. The patient had now no pain or tenderness of the abdomen: the pulse was feeble and quick, although he walked about the ward as if nothing ailed him. A large dose, first of opium, and then of calomel was given, and purgative injections or- dered. On the following day, no stools having been procured, it was repeat- ed, without effect, and as tenderness and pain had returned over the abdo- men, it was deemed necessary to operate, after a trial of the tobacco enema. The operator had expi-essed his belief that the hernia was omental, from the mildness of the symptoms, and from its giving no pain in handling, except at its posterior part, where the tenderness of the testis announced its presence. He was right. It was an immense omental hernia in the tunica vaginalis, with the testis enveloped only in the tunica albuginea. There was some water in the tunica vaginalis. The omentum was discoloured in many parts, and had an assemblage, in places, of hard, round lumps. Strong ropes of adhesion, as large as the little finger, bound it to the tunica vaginalis, and besides these, a large portion of the omentum was strangulated, by a ring of its own substance, low down in the cavity. Through this ring a large proportion of it had slipped, as in intus-susception. Higher up in the sac the adhesions Mere every-where strong, uniting it, by firm bands, to the omentum. All these were torn with the fingers, or cut with the knife. After searching, with the former, the inguinal canal, and freeing all within reach of it, the operator expressed his belief that the whole of the omentum had fallen out of the abdomen, as he could feel the margin of its connection, in the abdomen, with some intestine.