ANOMALIES OF ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. 132 The following- cases, though not examples of the chronic encysted tu- mour, may, as anomalies of the encysted hydrocele of the cord, be worth noticing. CASE III. Encysted Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, resembling externally that of Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis, with the indentation across its centre, and combined tvith the last mentioned affection; with the additional circum- stance of the Testis being adherent to the front of the Tunica Vaginalis. One of Colonel Berkeley's gamekeepers appeared at the Hospital with a large tumour of the scrotum, on the right side, which at first sight, from there being a distinct indentation across its middle, was taken for a hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis, when it assumes that variety of its external character. A closer inspection, however, explained the difference between the two affections. This tumour had its lower division, or inferior mass, larger than the upper, and there was a greater weight and irregularity of shape altogether than belongs to the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In truth, the lower mass, or that beneath the indentation, projected considera- bly beyond the upper. A still closer examination shewed that these two masses were not contained in the same cyst. The face of the interior tu- mour looked thinner and more transparent than tlie upper, and it was real- ly softer. The superior mass, or that above the indentation, was comparatively firmer and more solid to the touch, although evidently containing a fluid. The density, therefore, was the effect of its comparatively thickened parietes. But a chief distinguishing character was the circumstance that the lower mass, when pinched, gave that tenderness or peculiar pain which the testis only can yield when squeezed, and which unquestionable position of it would have induced a belief, that the tumour was nothing more than the encysted hydrocele of the cord, with the testis below it. But then this bo- dy was not distinct, small, and pendulous by itself, but evidently lodged, not in the centre of a mass of swelling, but superficially in the middle of its front face. Believing that the two swellings were of different characters.