58 PROLAPSUS ANI FROM STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. OBSERVATION. The foregoing is a very serious example of the folly and mischief arising out of the practice of prescribing for supposed complaints, the pro- duct of the patient's own judgment or imagination, the real nature of which might have been readily discovered by a proper examination of the parts concerned. No examination was ever made, in this case, until the lady came under my observation ; and even then she said her malady was piles; and they all say so. All the various affections of the anus are so called by the patients. But the medical man ought not to copy the errors of his pa- tient, to believe without evidence or conviction, which will assuredly lead him to prescribe for diseases which exist only in their conjoint imaginations. Here was a young lady who lost many of the best years of her life, and what was worse, spent them in wretched suffering, or in swallowing loads of useless medicine; nay further, who was carried into the very jaws of death, by one complaint of a very trifling nature being mistaken for another of the highest importance to comfort, and to life itself. Had an early examination of the parts concerned been carried into effect, the true affection would have been quickly revealed, and the sad miseries she subsequently endured, wholly prevented. When a discovery of the real malady was at length made, she was cured, without any medicine, in fewer months than years had been previ- ously occupied in pursuing a wrong course. This case then will furnish another valuable lesson, which indeed may daily be taught, if we would learn, viz. — never to prescribe for affections of the anus, without a proper visual and manual enquiry into their real character. CASE vn. Prolapsus ani, ivith a Stricture of the Rectum, ivliich produced it. A lady, about forty years of age, had been operated upon with a liga- ture for a prolapsus ani, by a distinguished metropolitan surgeon, but she now consulted me on account of a return of the complaint, and for some distressing symptoms, which were increased by the foregoing operation. Since this was performed the bowel had never descended in walking, which it always did before, but it did after every evacuation, though not so largely