88 SOMETIMES BETTER LEFT IN THE BLADDER. this subsidence taking place, and that a spasmodic contraction alone held the stone thus firmly, is probable, from its being found loose at the bottom of the bladder after death. The following is the report of the dissection given to me. Sectio Cadaveris. " The intestines, liver, and the whole of the digest* ive organs, were in a healthy state. The right kidney was in a state of suppuration ; the left contained fetid serum. The ureters were enlarged, their coats being much thickened, and highly vascular. The coats of the bladder were full half an inch thick. The internal part of it was every- where covered with black fetid mucus, except the fundus, which appeared more healthy, but inflamed. A piece of stone was found in the lower and back part of the bladder. The prostate gland was hardly any thing else but a mass of fetid matter." This young man unquestionably died from the long continued violence of the operation, in the attempt to extract the portion of stone. The con- dition of the prostate gland, the kidney and bladder, sufficiently proved the fact, that their injuries, by the production of a hectic or irritative fever, destroyed the patient. The operator was placed under trying circumstan- ces,—to take the stone or leave it; choose which he would, there was mischief in his choice. Perhaps, however, too much fear is entertained of leaving a fragment of stone in the bladder; but should not this yield to the greater and more ra- tional fear of lacerating and contusing the prostate and bladder, by a violent operation of long continuance, in a vain attempt to extract it? Why not leave it there, when moderate and well directed exertions have failed to remove it? We know that stones in the bladder have passed away safely through the external incisions repeatedly, many days after a fruitless operation to remove them; but, it is probable, a patient rarely escapes death, whose bladder and prostate have been at once bruised and torn by the forceps, or pinched and rubbed by them, during a long operation. We also know, from experience, that delaying the extraction of a stone, where it would have been highly dangerous to have attempted its immediate removal, has been purposely practised with safety.* * See Covillard,—Observat. Med. Opin. Liv. 4, Collot. Trait sur la Lithot. p. 178.