CARTILAGINOUS STRICTURE. 31 probable that the patient might be nourished through tubes, until the stricture is destroyed by laceration by the side of a proper instrument. CASE II. Firm, Cartilaginous Stricture. Mr. "W . a person about sixty years of age, of intemperate habits, (a spirit drinker,) first felt some difficulty in swallowing his food, about eight months before his application to me. About this time a great por- tion of it was rejected, and he had a hoarse, husky voice. This patient was otherwise in good health. He thought his complaint to be a sore throat, to which affection he had been accustomed; when he was informed of the probable nature of his malady, and the necessity of an examination with a bougie, he became alarmed, went away, and I saw no more of him for a month. At this time his swallowing had become more difficult than ever. I passed a bougie about the size of my little finger Avitli such difficulty through a stricture, as to give an impression of its being firm and resisting to an unusual degree. I continued the use of the instrument two or three times a week, sometimes passing it, and at other times I could not do so, which I attributed to the supervention of spasm on the part, as an event likely to happen in a patient like this, who possessed a remarkably irritable mind. I found, however, the difficulty increase, the point of the instrument presently turned back by the stoutness of the stricture, and I was reluctant- ly compelled to use a smaller one, which, like the former, I sometimes could pass, and at other times I was not able to do so, from the stricture bending it back. He could now swallow nothing but liquids, for although the bougie fairly reached the stomach, still it was plain that the powers of deglutition were not sufficient to impel food through the small aperture of the stricture, and soon, even of liquids he could only swallow at different times in the day a glass or two of port wine. He was thus (notwithstanding frequent strong broth enemas,) sinking fast into the grave, and scarcely able to sit, when I usecj, the armed bougie