THE DILATOR, HOW TO BE USED. .39 was impassable to solid food. The drawing will best explain the structure of the dilator for the oesophagus stricture. A ball of steel is at the point of the instrument when it is closed; by turning its handle, this ball se- parates the instrument into three divisons, ascends in the centre of them, and in its route, enlarges the size of the dilator, as may be required either to dilate or to destroy. Its use should be prefaced by an accurate exa- mination of the seat of the stricture, which is usually behind the cartilages of the larynx, and most commonly below the cricoid. The head of the patient being thrown well back, and the jaws fixed asunder by the mouth dilator, a middle sized brown bougie, curved and made soft in hot water, should be passed down the pharynx to the stricture, which is gen- erally distant from the edge of the dentes incisores, about six or seven inches, or according to the stature of the patient, or length of the neck. The stricture struck, its distance should be marked by the thumb nail on the instrument, as it lies under the teeth. The soft point of the bougie will have received some impression from the stricture, and you may judge from this, and from the slight force you have employed, what sized dilator may be required. Having selected the proper size, the distance of the stricture from the teeth may be marked upon it with a small dentist, or Lancashire file, or any other mark ; the exact admeasurement being copied from the soft bougie employed in the examination. The ball of the closetl dilator should now be placed against the back of the pharynx, down which it should be permitted to slide till it reaches the stricture, or when it is ascertained that the mark is immediately below the edge of the teeth. If it should pass the stricture readily, but perceptibly, for an inch and a half, or till the file mark be over the tongue, it lias gone far enough, and the operator taking the instrument in his left hand, near to its handle, should turn this last with his right, and its point will now be expanded, according to the width that may be required. It is now to be slowly, and steadily withdrawn through the stricture, wlUch in its retrograde passage, it either tears or dilates, according to the judgment of the operator, from his know- ledge of the quality or narrowness of the obstruction. If he wishes to dilate only, he will open the dilator slightly in the first instance, and, should the patient not then be enabled to swallow on its being withdrawn, he will repeat the introduction, and increase the dilatation until sufficient room be obtained—to admit of the passage of food to the stomach.