30 FALSE PASSAGE MADE BY THE BOUGIE. medical attendant reported tlms ;—"she is much reduced, and complains of being unable to swallow any solid food; liquids only will pass. I have now and then been able to pass the same sized bongie, but invariably after I have succeeded she complains of a pain between her shoulders, in the throat, and about the sternum. I observe that she sometimes expectorates matter with an oflensive smell." I was requested to see her. The abs- cesses had burst, but were not yet made into issues. The glands behind them were hard, and appeared to strike deep into the tliroat. On exami- nation with the bougie I discovered more room at the point of the stricture than could be expected under the circumstances, and enough, I should have supposed, to allow of the passage of considerable morsels of solid food. The point of the instrument gave considerable pain at the situation of the increased opening, w hich reminded me of the pain suffered when an urethra bougie has made a new passage from that canal. She attempted to swallow, and it appeared that some small solid morsels passed, but milk returned. Invariably, however, this act of swallowing induced coughing, and great quantities of mucus were brought up by the mingled act of retching with coughing. She said, feebly, " I think it w^ent down, but it comes up again with this nasty stuff." She now too was worried by con- siderable difficulty of breathing, and I took my leave of her, I was sure, for the last time in life. The print will best illustrate the dissection. The stricture itself was nearly impervious, and was formed by a diagonal fold of the inner membrane across the canal of the oesophagus. There was, however, no diseased appearance near this new arrangement of the inner membrane forming the obstruction: but a considerable opening made by the bougie was evident, connecting the oesophagus and wind-pipe. The mucous membrane of the latter was greatly and extensively inflamed, and its channel filled w ith mucus, among which was one or two very small sub- stances, looking like pieces of food of some sort, that had been forced in this direction through the opening or false passage. There were no other diseased appearances likely to shorten life. Whilst the foregoing case is an example of the extreme danger of the pointed bougie used in the ordinary manner, the following case will illus- trate some points of interest in the firm cartilaginous stricture, the inade- quacy of pointed or spherical instruments in such cases, and how far it is