PERITONITIS FROM SOUNDING. lOX CASE IX. Case of Peritonitis, excited by long continued attempts to find the Stone with the staff before operation. Two stones; one sacculated,—a piece left in that situation safely. Garret Ward, Infirmary. I performed lithotomy, February 19, 1817, upon Holliday, of Nailsworth, a man seventy-three years of age, but of good constitution. Tliere was considerable difficulty in feeling the stone with the staff, and attempts were indiscreetly made by many surgeons who were present, for a considerable time,—so that a fear was expressed that injury might be done to the bladder. There was nothing remarkable observed in the operation, excepting that besides a large stone, the bladder also contained a smaller one encyst- ed. I felt it projecting immediately above the pubis, where it was evident- ly firmly fixed. A long pair of dressing forceps broke off the point in the attempt to extract it from its bed, and the remainder was left behind, whicli the nail of the fore-finger could plainly distinguish to be on a level with the sides of the cyst and the bladder. No further attempts were made to dislodge this stone. The severity of the sounding, (which led to this decision,) was not forgotten. It was not desirable to add more irritation to what had been already endured, and the stone was permitted to remain undisturbed in its habitation. In the night, after the operation, he had severe pain just above the pubis, where was likewise some swelling; his skin was rather hot, — the tongue somewhat furred. Pulse hard, and about 100, Thirty leeches were ordered to this part of the abdomen, and, when they ceased to bleed, cold rags were to be constantly applied. In the evening, the pain was much diminished, and the swelling gone. No stools. Sulphate of magnesia every other hour, until the bowels should act. On the third morning, it was reported that he had vomited twice in the night: the belly was swollen more than before, very tender to the touch, and painful. Tongue furred, and pulse 111. He had taken two ounces of the sulphate, and had only one stool. Eighteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, twelve leeches were applied to the abdomen. A purgative clyster was given: and when the leeches had ceased to bleed, a