36 ON BOUGIES FOR THE CESOPHAGUS. In a firm stricture, the danger of the cloth and wax bougie is very evident. If it be softened in water, such a stricture will turn its point backwards, or aside, and it is therefore inefficient. If it be not softened, but allowed to retain its original firmness, for the purpose of breaking the obstruction, its danger is conspicuous. Should the point not happen to rest exactly on the small aperture of the stricture, (and who can say, at such a distance from the eye and hand, where it may so rest) and the sur- geon, imagining that it is rightly placed, proceeds to use some force, the oesophagus must then be penetrated. I have known this happen in two instances from the use of this bougie, although, in both it was curved to the shape of the throat, and in the hands of steady surgeons. The pro- bang, made of the ivory egg-shaped ball, and whalebone handle, is alto- gether incapable of forcing, or passing a firm stricture of the oesophagus, and its peculiar spring-like structure, in other respects makes it act parti- ally. A weak whalebone handle would bend against a stout stricture, and, if this objection was obviated by using a strong handle, the force employed by the operator to bend the spring to the curve of the throat, would act upon the ball, and this again upon the back of the pharynx, giving great pain, and doing violence on its road to the stricture. Moreover, the action by the ivory ball under such a circumstance as a stout handle being employed, would be extremely partial, that is, it would act on the obstruction at the back of the canal only, leaving untouched or unoccupied by its point the front or sides of the canal. This instrument appears to be fitted for the mere purpose of a probang; to overcome food lodged in the oesophagus, or to wear out by its gentle pressure, the spasm of a temporary stricture. With regard to caustic bougies, the same objections against their use in urethral strictures hold with especial force against their employment in the oesophagus, or perhaps it would be more correct to say, there are still more powerful ones to be added why they should be rejected in the last case. For example. The membranous stricture of Miss B. was diagonal, and its edge, which was very firm, would probably have turned a caustic bougie, softened by heat of the part, against the thin side of the tube.