138 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE TESTIS. Conceiving this indolent enlargement to be a nidus for future mischief, and the loss of the part,—and that it had been alike proof to anti-inflam- matory means, mercury, and the treatment of the urethra;—Si directly op- posite plan was ordered, or that of active stimulation. A slough was made with the potassa fusa through the skin of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis, of about the size of half-a-crown. On the separation of this slough, some two or three ounces of fluid escaped from the tunic; inflammation followed, and considerable discharge, with general swelling, redness, and heat of the scrotum, and shooting pains along the cord. These symptoms subsided under the ordinary means, and the front of the eschar was converted into an issue. In one month after the issue be- came active from the application of the caustic, the patient was discharged cured—an effect probably brought about by throwing the indolent and en- larged part into a state of active inflammation, and suppuration from the neighbourhood of its surface. CASE II. "Infirmary, December 20th. Edward Parry, aged forty, has both tes- tes enlarged to a very great extent, and possessing all the characters of the simple chronic inflammation of this part. They are without preternatural heat, smooth and regular on their surface, bulge roundly down their front, have now and then a dull pain, and sometimes a little shooting along the cord, which spreads itself over the lower part of the abdomen and loins. He has never had a gonorrhaea, nor was this part ever injured by a blow. The passing of a sound neither indicates a stricture, nor much tender- ness at any point of the urethra;—nevertheless, as he says that twelve months ago a bougie passed regularly relieved him, the sound is directed to be passed twice a week. He is to be freely leeched, lie in bed, and un- dergo a slight mercurial course. Jan. 29th. This man is no better. That is to say, the testicles are as large as ever, though without pain. On the lower part of the front of the