XXI deep sleep of long continuance, not easily disturbed, and often terminating in deatk. There are also certain sub- stances wliich, when applied to the body, not only do not excite the nervous system, but plainly lay us asleep, and render us unfit for sensation ; of this kind are those called narcotics, as opium and the like ; among which also we may reckon witic, when taken in too great quantity. Watching itself is also a cause of sleep ; as when a man is awake, he is always exercising, more or less, the organic powers of his body, by which the nervous influence is diminished, and thus the more violently the body is ex- ercised, in the same proportion is the person wnder the necessity of sleeping. Sleep is deficient in many dis- eases ; for there are few which do not excite pain, anxiety, or uneasiness sufficient to prevent the ap- proach of sleep, or to disturb it. Want of sleep will hurt in diseases as w ell as in health, and for the same reason, but in a greater degree and more quickly in the former than in the latter. Too much sleep, on the other hand, produces many mischiefs, rendering the whole body lan- guid, torpid, and lazy, and it even almost takes away the judgment. It also disturbs the circulation, and diminishes most of the secretions and excretions. Hence plethora, fatness, flaccidity, and an inability for the common affairs of life. The causes of this excess are, either the usual c?,uses of sleep above-mentioned increased beyond mea- sure, or some fault in the brain, or a compression of it by aa extravasation of the humours; or, as it would sometimes appear, from great debility produced by some unusual cause, as in those who are recovering from typhus fevers and other diseases. In these instances, however, this excess of sleep is by no means hurtful, nor even, perhaps, in those cases where an excess of grief continued for a long time, or a great fright, has produced a surprising and un- expected somnolency. Many people have accustomed themselves, and that not •without a great deal of injury to their constitution!, to sleep too much. Nor are there pxamplcn wanting of tl^ose who