XX therefore, is not only useful, but absolutely indispensable for the preservation of life and health, and contributes most essentially to the alleviation, as well as to the total removal, of disease. The want of it is equally hurtful, and in many different ways, to the nervous system. It renders the external as well as the internal organs of sense, and those of every kind of motion, unfit for the perfoimance of their offices. Hence the sensations are either annihilated, or become imperfect or vitiated; and hence imbecility of mind, defective memory, a kind of de- lirium, mania itself, pain of the head, weakneis of the joints, imperfect or inordinate action of the vital organs, quickness of the pulse, heat, fever, depraved digestion, atrophy, leanness, and an increase or perturbation of the secretions * and excretions.t Sleep may be prevent- ed or totally interrupted, from a variety of causes; such as strong light, noisCj pain, anger, joy, grief, fear, anxiety, hunger, thirst, vehement desire, motion of the body, memory, imagination, intense thought, &c. On the other hand, it is brought on by a slight impression of the organs of sense, or none at all; by the humming of bees, the noise of falling water, cold, and insipid discourse; in short, by any such exercise of the memory as is neither too laborious nor disturbing for the mind. Too great an impulse of the blood towards the head, such as often happens in fever, prevents sleep ; hut a free and equal distribution of the blood through the whole body, especially the extreme parts, frequently brings it on. Whatever weakens the body also favours sleep ; and hence various kinds of evacuations, the warm bath, fomentations, sometimes heat itself, are useful for promoting it. It comes on easily after taking food, &c. Cold produces a * Secretion is meant to express tliat function by which an organ se- parates from tlie blood the constituent parts of a fluid that docs not exist in it with its characteristic properties. t Excretion is applied to the separation or secretion of those fluids from the blood of an animal that are supposed to be useless, such as urine, perspiration, &c.