xHv The diseases in whlc}> the cold salt water is most service- able, are those of the cachectic kind—in green sickness— profuse discharges—chronic inflammation of the eyes- aptitude to abortion—convulsions and rickets of children— in preventing the paroxysms of agues—in removing the debility consequent on febrile diseases, and the long-con- tinued use of mercury—in a variety of those chronic affec- tion?, termed " nervous complaints," &c., particularly when its salutary effects are assisted by the moderate use of wine, or such other aliment or medicines as are adapted to tlie age, sex, constitution and complaints of the patient. In scrofulous affections and the enlargement of bones or tendons, commonly called white swellings, sea air and sea bathing afford considerable benefit. -The internal use of sea water, although it has little or no effect on some dis- eases of the skin, removes worms from the intestines of children, and prevents their reproduction; but as children can seldom be prevailed upon to take a sufficient quantity of any nauseous medicine however beneficial, other mean* should be resorted to. Sea water is also usefiil in gravel— jaundice—fistula in ano—and is an excellent purgative, when taken in sufficient quantity, in paralytic complaints. The external use of cold water affusion is of singular use in the treatment of scarlet fever* at the commencement. It * Dr. Carrie mentions, in his Medical Reports, that he found the aflta- sion of cold water to extinguish incipient scarlet fever in repeated in- stdnces, so as to prevent either efflorescence or any affection of the tliroat from taking place. The plan followed by Dr. C, if he was called in at this early period, where the patient feels steadily hot, and the shivering having gone olT, was to strip him quite naked, ond to dash four or five gallons of the coldest water over his naked body; and the heat returning, Dr.C. adds, that it is sometimes necessary to use it ten or twelve times in twenty-four hours. During this time cold water and lemonade should be used as drinks, and the bowels opened, if necessary, by the submuriate of mercury. The affusion, in a few cases, he thought it advisable to assist by the diaphoretic power of a solution of farlarisrd antimony. Dr.C. adds, that, in 160 cases, he uniformly followed this prnt- ticc, and with " a degree of success so nearly invariable, that he eonld not contemplate it without emotions of surprise, as well .is of s.itisfaetion." Dnring the hot stage of scarlet fever he rrcommcnds sponging the body all over with cold water and vinegar, fcc.