Books publislied by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 8 2. The SPORTSMAN'S REPOSITORY; com- prising a Series of highly-finished Engravings, rcpreseiiiing the House and the Dog in all their varieties; executed in the Line Manner, by John Scott, from original Paintin^is by Marshall, Reinagle, Gilpin, Stubbs, and Cooper : accompanied with a com- prehensive, historical, and systematic description of the different Species of each, their appropriate Uses, Management, and Im- provement ; interspersed with Anecdotes of the most celebrated Horses and Dogs, and tiieir Proprietors; also, a Variety of prac- tical Information on Training, and the Amusements of the Field. By the Author of British Field Sports." Beautifully printed in Quarto, and embellished with Forty highly-finished Copper-plate Engravings, and numerous Wood Cuts. Price 31. 3s. in boards. It may also be had in Six Parts. Price lOs 6d. each. 3. THOUGHTS on FOX and HARE HUNTING ^ in a Series of Letters to a Friend. By Peter Beckford, Esq. With numerous illustrative Notes by the Author. A new and elegant Edition, iu One Volume, 8vo. Price I4s. boards. %• The Publisbersbeg leave respectfully to recommend the preicnt Edition of Mr. Bectford's valuable Work, to the notice of Sporting Gentlemen. It will be found to surpau all prcteding Edition], in eleganu of paper, printing, and illustration. The Author's Notes, also, which have long been umitted, are here introduced, and render this Edition peculiarly desirable. 4. An ESSAY on HUNTING; comprising Hunting, Lawfulness, Benefits, Pleasure, Pastime, Game, Scent, Houndt^, The Horse, Huntsman, Sagacity, 6cc. &c. &c. Copied terhatim from the Original Edition, printed in the year 1733, and elegantly printed in 8vo. Price 78. boards; or, in 4to. 12s. VTe consider the SporUag World much indebted to those who luve caused the rc-printing of this Work; the style is excellent. Some of the Author's ideas may,since its first publication (i 733), have been controverted,or become obsolete, through the benefits^of modern experience; but good sense, combined with practical knowledge and a playful fancy, arc apparent in every sub- ject which the Author touches on; and we candidly express our belief, that few modern Volucics will afford the reader more pleasure.—£^rt/n; iUnfoxiiK. 5. SPORTING ANECDOTES, original and selected, (many of them concerning our late King); iiicludiug numerous Characteristic Portraits of Persons in every Walk of Life, who liave acquired notoriety from their Achievements on the Turf, at