Books pubtished by Sherwood, JoneSy and Co. 7> 1. BRITISH FIELD SPORTS > embracing Practical Instrnctions in Sliouting, Hunting, Coursing, Racing, Fishing, &c.; witli Observations on the Breaking and Training of Dogs and Horses; also, on the Management of Fowling Pieces, and all other Sporting Implements. By William Henry Scott, Author of tlie " Sportsman's Repository." In One large Volume, 8vo, Price ll. 18s. in boards; or on Royal Paper, with proof Impres- sions of the Plates, 31. 3s. •«« This Work is beautifully printed on fine wove Paper, hot-pressed, and illustrated with upwards of Fifty highly-finished Engravings;—Thirty-Four on ("opper, executed in the most characteristic Style of Excellence, by those emi- nent Artists, Scott,. Warren, Greig, Tookey, Davenport, Ranson, and Webb; from Paintings by Reinagle, Clennell, Elmer, and Barrenger; the remainder are cut on Wood, by Clennell, Thompson, Austin, and Bewick. That we have had several good and elaborate Treatises upon particular divi- sions of Field Sports is readily acknowledged; but we have had no Work of a portable nature, comprehending the whole of them. This inconvenience, however, is removed by the present Publication. The • Bkitisb Fiei/D Sports* IS divided into Sections, each forming a Subject which is treated separately and •systematically, with all the necessary Legal Information appertaining to it. The Author's object has been to present, in as compressed a-form as real utility would admit. Instructions in all the various Field Sports in Modern Praeticej thereby forming a Book of general Reference on the Subject, and including, in One Volume, what could not otherwise be obtained without purchasing many expensive ones. The means he has possessed for accomplishing so desirable '. purpose, he trusts, have enabled him to produce such a Work on the Subject )f Field Sports, as, in point of Paper, Printing, Illustration, and Embellish- lent, is not to be equalled in the English Language. " I; givCT Uf pleasure to observe the respectability of the Work, entitled " BRITISH FIELD PORTS." la this kingdom, the Sports of the Field arc highly characteristic and interesting. \» gentlemanly diversions, they have been pursued with an avidity as keen, and a taste as uni- crsal, as the relish of Nature's beauties. A corresponding value is set on them, and an appro -tate polish is added by lime and practice; the various minutie in the knowledge of which, -id the technical distribution of this knowlcdce, together with Facts, lastrucUons, and Anecdote* ..-m the b»»U of tWs valuable BubUcalion,"—J'a/ mtr'/ Journal.