xxxix and preventing the fluids from stagnating too long in the cellular interstices of the fleshy parts. Sleep (see p. xix) is the great restorer of strength; as during this time the nutritious particles of the food appear to be chiefly applied to repair the waste, and to replace those that have been exhausted from the labour and exer- cise of the day; * but too much sleep has many incon- Teniences, both with respect to body and mind, as it blunts the senses, and encourages the fluids to stagnate in the cellular membrane; whence corpulency, and its inse- parable concomitants, languor and weakness. The proper time for sleep is night, when darkness and silence naturally bring it on : sleep in the day-time, from noise and other circumstances, is in general not so sound or refreshing; and to some people is really distressing, as creating an unusual giddiness and languor, especially in persons ad- dicted to literary pursuits. Custom, however, frequently renders sleep in the day necessary ; and in those constitu- tions where it is found to give real refreshment, the pro- pensity to it ought to be indulged, particularly in those ad- vanced in years. The lime requisite to restore the waste occasioned by the return of the day will depend on the activity of the habits, and on the health of the individual; it cannot in general be less than seven, and need not exceed nine hours.t *" Regular and sufBcient sleep serves, on the one hand, for repairing the Ids: powers, and, on the other, for lessening consumption, by lessen- ing vital activity. Hence the lives of people who are exposed to the most debilitating fatigue,are prolonged to a considerable age, when they enjoy sleep in its fullest extent.''—Struve's Asthenology, tivo. 1801, p. 199. + "All-healing sleep soon neutralises the corroding caustic of care; and blunts even the barbed arrows of the marble-hearted fiend—ingra- titude." " When the pulse is almost paralysed by anxiety, half an hour's re- pose, will cheer the circulation, restore tranquillity to the perturbed spi- rit—dissipate those heavy clouds of ennui, which sometimes threaten to eclipse the brightest minds, and best hearts.—Child of woe, lay thy head on thy pillow (instead of thy mouth to the bottle), and bless me for di- recting thee to the true source of Lethe—and most sovereign Nepentlik for the sorrows of human life."—(Pepiic precepts.)