Books published hy Sheru ood, Ji/mts, and Cff. DO]MESTIC ECONOMY, AGRICULTURE, AND RURAL AFFAIRS. 1. JENNINGS'S DOMESTIC CYCLOPiEDiA, be- ing a complete Code of Family Information. Just completed in IJ Parts, (wliicli may be liad by one or more at a time,) price 2s, 6d each, forming '2 large Volumes, Octavo, price ll. 14s. boards, an Original Work, entitled the FAMILY CYCLOPAEDIA, being a IVIanual of useful and necessary knowledge, alphabetically arranged; •comprising all the r«cent Inventions, Discoveries, and Improvements in Doiiifslic Economy, Agriculture, and Chemistry; the most ap- proved methods of curing Diseases, with the mode of Treatment in cases of Drowning, other Accidents, and Poisons ; observations on Diet and Regimen; a comprehensive account of the most striking objects in Natural History, Animate and Inanimate; and a detail of various processes in the Arts and Manufactures : also, a concise View of the Human Mind and the Passions, with their particular application to our Improvement in Education and Morals. By J. JENNINGS. This Original and Valnable Work is printed in double Columns, on good Paper, and contains I upwards of Fi/ieen Hundred Pages of Information, immediately (connected with the pursuits of Domestic Life. By means of 4Closc printing and a large page, it comprehends as much matter fas is usually found in six Volumes of an ordinary size, and cannot I fail, it is presumed, of being considered a most valuable addition to la Family Library. The Family Cyclopadia, by JAMES JENNINGS, con- ttains a large mass of information, on subjects connected with \thti domestic economy of life. In matters of science and art, <tbe author has made his selections from sources of the best taiithority. The original materials supplied by himself are credit- table to his observation, good sense, and benevolence. Almost every topic of general interest will he found in this comprehen- Mve and judicious compilation, treated in a clear and familiar nanner. As a book of daily reference in the common concerns ,t' life, it will be found to afford iniportant assistance, and its L^reat practical utility will, we have no doubt, ensure it a ready 'itroduction, and a favourable reception, in every intelligent ,;mily. In addition to the great heads of domestic economy,