xliii The first action of cold is to produce a sudden torpor of the skin, and to determine the vohirae of blood from the external to the internal parts; hence if a person be dis- posed to inward bleedings, spitting or vomiting of blood, or apoplexy, the first application of cold to the skin, may produce the complaint. No one disposed to consumption ought ever to use the cold bath: in such cases, sea air and sea bathing— and SEA WATER Internally, accelerate the disease. All persons weakened by disease to a certain degree are in- capable of bearing the concussion of the cold bath; the utility of which arises from its secondary operation, e.g. the irritability is. accumulated in the vessels of the skin, which are stimulated to act more strongly ; the balance of blood is restored to the external surface, and kept up there; and a glow of heat ensues. Those disposed to gouty affections should not use the cold bath; by which is meant every degree of cold under 850, which always proves more or less tonic in its opera- tion. In many cases, where the patient is too weak to bear a bath of 40o, one of 65 acts like a charm: thus rheumatism is benefited by whatever strengthens the sys- tem, and particularly the skin; the first degree, i.e. 40o, will bring on the paroxysm, while a bath 65°, is an excel- lent preventive: hence the Matlock and Buxton waters are so useful. Cold water, as well from its tonic power as from its gravity, tends to remove the debility incidental to the in- habitants of cities and large towns, who breathe an im- pure atmosphere, give way to luxurious habits of living, or lead sedentary lives. By accelerating the motion of the blood, and promoting the different secretions, it braces and gives permanent vigour to the system—purposes w hich are conceived to be most effectually answered by the ap- plication of SEA "WATER, not Only oil account of its greater specific gravity, but also because it is a more powerful stimulant, promoting the discharge from the skin, and ren- dering people less liable to the influence of cold.