Books published by Shertcood, Jonef, and Co. 5 7. The CODE OF AGRICULTURE; including Observations on Gardens, Orchards, Woods, and Planta- tions. By tlie Right Hon. Sir John Sinclair, Hart. Third Edition in one Large Vohime, 8vo. Price ^1 4s. in boards. This Third Edition is considerably improved by a number of Valuable Remarks, communicated to the Author by some of the most intelligent Farmers in England and Scotland. The Subjects particularly considered, are 1. The Preliminary Points which a Farmer ought to ascertain, before he undertakes to occupy any extent of Land. t. The IVIeans of Cultivation which are essential to ensure its saccess. 3. The various Modes of improving Land. 4. The various Modes of occupying Iiand. 5. The Means of improving a Country. ** sir Jobn Sinclair's' Code of Agriculture' is one of Use inoit valuable books of the year. In point of fact, it concentrates the knowledge amassed during the experience of a lung life, passed amidst the best opportunities of collecting information ; and exhibits the results in a form condensed with great logical acumen, of all the Labours and Publications of modern writers on Agriculture. It merits, therefore, a place in the library of every Gentleman and Farmer in the Country, and of every individual who has any turn for Agricultural pursuits."—Monttly Magatcine. 8. A SYSTEM of SHEEP GRAZING and MA- N.AGEMENT, as practised in Romney Marsh. By Daniel Price, of Appledore, Kent. In 4to. Illustrated with Plates, price 2l. 2s. in boards. 9. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on the Parturition of the COW, or the extraction of the Calf, and on the Diseases of Neat Cattle in genci-al; with the mo.'rt approved Methods of Treatment, and best Forms of Prescription, adapted to Veterinary Practice. By Edward Skellett, Profcs.sor of that part of the Vettrinaiy Art. In one large Volume, Octavo, price J8s. plain, or ll. 7s. with the Plates accurately coloured. Illustrated with thirteen highly-finished Engravings. 10. Tlie GRAZIER'S READY RECKONER, or a nsofiil Guide for Buying and Selling Cattle ; being a complete set of Tables, distinctly pointing out the Weight of Black Cattle, Sheep, and Swine, fioiu three to one hundred and thirty Stones, by measuremenl; with Directions, showing the particular parts where the ('attic are to be measured. By George Ren toy. Farmer. A new Edition, corrected. Price s!s. 6d, sewed.