Xlll or the small-pox ; or by the drum of the ear becoming rigid or relaxed ; or from its being corroded or ruptured; or the driira of tlie ear, or the eustachian tube may, from certain causes, be obstructed ; or some of the little bones or membranes, or some of the muscles of the labyrinth, may be affected with concretion, spasm, palsy, or torpor; or, lastly, it may happen from diseases of the brain or nerves. Hence deafness is often a nervous disease, com- ing on suddenly and going off spontaneously. For the same reason, also, it is common in old people, all of whose solid parts are too rigid, while their nervous parts have too little sensibility. A very common disease in the sense of hearing is, when certain sounds, like tliose of a drum, a bell, the fall of water, &c., are heard, without any tremor in the air, or without a person, whose sense of hearing is sound, hearing any thing. This disease is called by physicians tinnitus •aiirium (ringing in tlie cars). It is, for tlie most part, a :slight transient disorder ; but sometimes it is most obsti- mate, long-continued, and troublesome; arising frequently drom tlie slightest c.iuse, such as any tiling partially stop- iping up the auditory passage, &c., so that access is in part -denied to the air, whence it happens that the latter strikes the membrane of the tynipaitum or drum, or perhaps the interior parts unequally, and with too much force ; hence that resounding noise, or ringing of the ears, heard by the most healtliy when they yawn. Ringing of the ears and deafness accompany many diseases, the latter particularly accompanies typhus fevers. The former may arise without any vehement affection of the mind ; sometimes from dis- OJdersin the stomach; from a rheumatic disorder affecting the ears and head.; in fact, both may arise from a variety of causes, which, unless they are removed, do not admit of-being cither certainly or easily cured. SI G PIT. iVlany'disorders or varieties of this sense are often ob- served. Those persons are called short-sighted who cau-