Vlll lates the affected part, and by degrees the whole body; produces a great flux of blood to the part affected, by in- creasing the action of its vessels; and it seems also to in- crease the sensibility of the part affected to future impres- aions. It often stimulates to such motions as are bolli necessary and salutary. Hence pain is sometimes to be reckoned among those things which guard our life. When very violent, however, it produces too great irritation, in- flammation, and its consequences, fever, and all those evils which flow from too great a force of the circulation ; it dis- orders the whole nervous system, and produces spasms, ■watching, convulsions, delirium, debility, and fainting. Neither the mind nor the body can long bear very velie- ment pain; and, indeed, nature lias set certain limits be- yond which she will not permit pain to be carried, without bringing on delirium, convulsions, syncope, or even death, to rescue the miserable sufferer from his torments. Long- continued pain, even though in a more gentle degree, often brings on debility, torpor, palsy, and rigidity of the affected part. But if not too violent, nor accompanied with fever, sickness, or anxiety, it sometimes appears to contribute to the clearness and acuteness of the judgment, as some people troubled with gout have testified. ANXIETY. Another disagreeable sensation, quite different from pain, is anxiety—it is also more obtuse, and less capable of being referred to any particular part. Care, however, must be taken not to confound this anxiety, which we treat of in a medical sense, with that which is spoken of in com- mon discourse. The latter docs not at all depend on the state of the body, but belongs entirely to the mind ; and arises from a sense of danger, or a foresight of any misfortune. The former is truly corporeal, and derives, no less than pain, its origin from a certain state of the body. It it very possible, notwithstanding this difference, for both these Kinds of anxiety to be present at the same lime, or