2 Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. agricultiiie, and cliemistry, this work points out the best modes of rtiring diseases, and obviating the effects of sudden accidents ; and presents also an outline of the mind and passions, witii a view to tlie improvement of morals and education.—i»/«n</i^u Ulaimz'tie, July, 1821. 2. A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL AGRICULTURE; including all the Modern Improvements and Discoveries, and the Result of all the Attention and Inquiry which have been IjestoweJ on this important Science during the last Fifty Years; the whole combining and explaining, fully and completely, the PniifciPLES and practicji of Modeiin Husbandry, in all its Branches and Relations. AVith an Appendix of the Laws relating to Agriculture, particularly of the Relative Rights of Landlord and Tenant, Forms of Leases, Setting out Tithes, &c. &c. By R. W. DICKSON, M. D. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE BOARD OP AGR/CULTURC, <&:C &C. In tWO large Volumes, in Quarto, illustrated with upwards of One Hundred Engravirtf^s, (Thirty of which are coloured from Nature,) representing improved Imple- ments, the various Grasses, and the principal Breeds of Sheep and Catfle, from Original Drawings. Originally published at six guineas; but the stock liaving passed into the hands of the present Proprietors, they have reduced its price to four guineas, thus rendering it the cheapest as well as most comprehensive work on the subject extant. This Work includes fwry Branch of the important Art to which it relates,particnUrly the best Methods of Planting Timber of every Description, and the improved Management of Live Stoclc, with a Description of Implements and Buildings; the Theory of Soils and Manures; the best Methods cf Inclosing, Embanting, Road-malting, Draining, Fallowirig, Irrigating, Paring and Burning; the improved Cultivation of Arable Lands, at d of all Kinds of Grain, Artificial Grasses, &c.; presenting the most useful and comprcheniive Body of Practical Information ever offered to the Public on the interesting Science of Agriculture ; a Science which is so intimately connected with the Welfare and Happiness of the BRITISH EMPIRE. Reliance is placed on the Support of Noblemen, Clergymen, Country Gentlemen, and intelli- gent Fai men, In this Undertaking, which is calculated to remove the Obstacles that have hitherto presented themjclves to the Introdu'.tlon of Agricultural Improvements. 3. The FARMER'S COMPANION, being a com- plete system of Modern Husbandry ; including the iati i-t Improve- ments and Discoveries, in Theory and Praclii-e. Extracted and Abridged from the above Work, by the same Ai thor. In two Volumes, loyalSvo. Second Edition, I'rice two Guineas, in boards. Tlie leading feature of excellence by which tliis work is distin- guished, is tliat minuteness of Piacticul Detail, which renders it singularly adapted to the purposes of Atiriculture. The whole scope of its contents has a constant and iiiiniediatc ronuexion with the daily pursuits of the Farmer, tlie Implements of Husbandry he employs', the Modes of Agriculture he adopts, and the systcui of Pasture and Feeding he pursues. These inultifatious topics are all treated with simplicity and clearness; so that ihe \\ ork presents an ample, but distinct display of every subject connected with tiie practical objects of a Farm. It is illustrated with upwards of One [Jundri'd Ei<pacings, representing; improved Implements for larmiug, vadous Breeds of Cattle, Sheep, &c.