XV ceives nothing distinctly or with great pain, from the same causes that induce a similar disorder in the other senses. It is made dull, or even totally annihilated, by age, from causes dependent on the change of structure and function, on this account, from age. It is also depraved, by things appearing of a different colour from what they actually are. There is also another kind of depravation of the sight; when, without any light being admitted to the eyes, sparks, small drops of flame of a gold colour, and various other colours, are observed to float before us. This is ge- nerally a very slight and transient disorder, common to those whose constitutions are very irritable, and arises from the slight impulse, as it would seem on the retina, by a more violent beating, than usual, of the vessels. A fiery circle is observed by pressing the eye with (he finger after the eyelids are shut. The same reason, perhaps, may be given for those sparks which are seen by persons labouring under the falling sickness, and increasing to the size of an Immense and luminous beam before they fall down in con- vulsions. A similar beam is also testified by those who have revived from hanging and drowning, in consequence, doubtless, of the vessels of the head swelling and compress- ing the nervous parts of the bead, from the suppression of respiration, &c. SQUINTING. There is another defect of vision which remains to be mentioned ; namely, squinting. A person is said to squint who has the axes of the eyes more oblique than usual, and directed to different points. It is an evil, for the most part, born with the person, and often corrected by those attempts which an infint makes to see more agreeably and distinctly ; and this without even being conscious of its own defects. It is also easily learnt, especially in infants, and without their knowledge, by that kind of imitation which has a great influence over the human race, more particularly in their tender years. It is by no means, however, to be unlearned when once acquired. It may