XXVll breath, aud the strong efforts made in coughing, a great deal of blood is collected in the lungs, the vessels of which are frequently distended and sometimes broken; hence, not unfrequentlj a violent and sometimes fatal discharge of blood. It is, however, oftener the cause of a slower, though equally fatal disease. "What is more, a frequent and troublesome cough, without any great discharge of blood, or even without any at all,may injure the texture of the lungs to that degree, particularly sliould their struc- ture happen to be more tender than usual, as to lay the foundation of an almost incurable consumption. And, the passage of blood being impeded by long-continued and vio- lent coughing, it must necessarily flow through the veins to- wards the head ; hence redness and lividness in the coun- tenance, discharges of blood, palsies, apoplexies, arid sometimes fatal convulsions. Lastly, by a violent cough the abdominal viscera are compressed with remarkable violence ; and, if any part happen to be weaker than usual, a rupture, prolapsus of the womb, abortion, or si- milar accidents may happen. Even when the cough is more gentle, if it happen to be troublesome and frequent, although we have nothing of this kind to fear, still the pa- tient is by no means free from danger, as he is tliereby agitated, fatigued, has his constitution broken, is deprived of rest; lias a fever brought upon him; his lungs are shaken and irritated ; digestion and all the other functions are deranged, till at last the patient sinks under a com- plication of maladies, which but too often set the skill of medicine at defiance. (See Catarrh and Consumption, p. 107). . SNEEZING. Tliis affection is somewhat similar to cough, consisting of a very full inspiration, to which succeeds a most violent expiration, by which the air is driven out through the nos- trils with considerablf! force, sweeping the passage through them as it goes out. It is a convulsion much more violent than a cough; and is, besides, very difficult to be stopped b2