Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 9 the Table, and in the Diversions of the Field : the whole forming a complete Delineation of the Sporting f^Vorld. By Pierce Eg an. Embellished with a characteristic Frontispiece, representing Eight Varieties of Sporting Amusements. Price 9s. boards, or I'^s. elegantly bonnd. 6. SCOTT'S SPORTSMAN'S POCKET-BOOK; THE SPORTSMAN'S CALENDAR; or, Monthly Remem- brancer of Field Diversions. By A\ . H. Scott, Antlior of* Bri- tish Field Sports.'' Elegantly printed in a neat pocket size, and hot-pressed. Price 5s. in boards. 7. SOMERVILLE'S celebrated Poem of the CHASE; to which is annexed, liis Poem of Field Sports ; with Memoirs of the Author, and an Essay on the Chase. By Edward Top- ham, Esq. Illustrated with Engravings, by Mr. Scott. Price 6s. in boards. 8. SONGS of THE CHASE; including some also, on RACING, SHOOTING, ANGLING, HAWKING, AR- CHERY, &c. Handsomely printed in foolscap 8vo. with appro- priate Embellishments. Second Edition. Price 9s. boards. 9. The SHOOTER'S COMPANION; or, Dlrec tions for the Breeding and Management of Setters and Pointers, and for the Treatment and Cnre of Diseases, to which all Dogs are liable, witii an Historical description of Winged Game. The Fowling-lPiece, considered particularly as it relates to the Use of Percussion Powder. The various methods of making Percussion Powder, and the best pointed out. Of Scent:—the Olfactory Organs anatomically explained; with the Reason why one Dog's Sense of Smell is superior to another's. Shooting illustrated ; and the Art of Shooting Flying exemplified, and clearly laid down. The Game Laws, and every information connected with the Use of the Fowlinji-Hiece. By T. B. Johnson. New and Improved Edition. Price 9s. iu boards, with Plates. Thlj i* » well written and well arranced production \ toRtainine much Interesting Inform, tion, not only to the profciicd Sportfman, but to thoie who may occaiionally tcek thii fascinatinc recreation. We may add, that It i» not the production of any ordinary Sport«man, but of •ne who can enjoy the pleasures of the Library as well a* thoK of Ibc Field, asd can wield » Pen *i well ai a FowUng.Piece,"—ii'f'O' C*r»nit/#.