6 Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 11. The HORTICULTURAL REPOSITORY, con- taining Delineations of the best Varieties of the diffej ent Species of English Fruit; to whicii are added, the Blossoms and Leaves, in those instances in whicli they are considered necessary:—accom- panied with full Descriptions of their various Properties, Time of Ripening, and Directions for Planting them, so as to produce a longer Succession of Fruit; such being pointed out, as are par- ticularly calculated for open Walls, and for Forcing. IJy G. BROOKSiiAVlf, Author of the " Pomona Britannica." lUustrated by beautiful Coloured Plates, on which the Fruit ii represented in :tf natural size : the whole VTorlc comprehending nearly Two Hundred Specimens of the choicest Species. In two Volumes, royal 8vo. price 61. lOs. in boards, or may be had in Twenty-six Monthly Parts, by one or more at a time, at the original price of 5s. each. %* This Work is the result of several years' practical obser\'ation. Its obvious utility and general interest, will instantly occur to the reader ; it being a curious fact, that while an enlarged Uste for Botany has been directed, both scientifically and popularly, to every branch of its extensive province, this particular department has been most neglected, the proper selection of rruit Trees being generally very imptrfectly understood ; a deficiency which it is the object of the present work to supply. 12. A TREATISE on the Improved Culture of the STliAVVBERKY, RASPBERRY, GOOSEBERRY, and CUR- RANT, in which are pointed out the best Methods of obtaining ample Crops of those Fruits. To which are prefixed. Descriptions of the most esteemed Varieties. Iliustrcted by four coloured' Plates, representing the choicest Specimens of the Fruit, drawn iu its natural size. By Thomas Haynes. In 8vo. price lOs. iu boards. 13. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on Brewing the various sorts of Malt Liquor; with Examples of each Species, and the mode of using the Thermometer and Saccharometer : the whole forming a complete Guide in Brewing every Description of Ale and Beer. To which are added, General Instructions for making Malt, and Tables of the Net Duties of Excise on Strong and Table Beer, payable by Common Brewers in Town and Country. By Alex- ander MoRRiCE, Common Brewer. Sixth Edition; with the Laws, ("now first added,) relating to Brewers and Maltsters. By John Williams, Esq. Price lOs. 6d. boards. 14. The FAMILY DYER AND SCOURER, being a complete treatise on the Arts of Dying and Cleaning every article of Dress, Bed and Window Furniture, Silks, Bonnets, Feathers, &c., whether made of Flax, Silk, Cotton, Wool, or Hair; also Carpets, Counterpanes, and Hearth Rugs. Ensuring a saving of Eighty per cent. By William Tucker, late Dyer and Scourer in the Metropolis. Second Edition, price 4s. 6d. boards.