xxvi imperfect and obstructed, by reason of the contraction of the glottis. Cough is excited by any kind of acrid sub- stance, either chemically or mechanically applied to those passages through which the air enters. These are lined with a membrane so exceedingly delicate and impatient of stimulus, that it cannot even bear the touch of the mildest substance, such as a small drop of water, without throwing the muscles, serving for respiration, into a violent conTul- sion ; the glottis, at the same time, contracting by means of the sympathy between it and the neighbouring parts. In this manner the air is thrown out with such violence, that it drives the irritating substance along with it; and thus a cough becomes not only useful, but absolutely neces- sary for the preservation of life, as being able to free the lungs from every kind of irritating substance or foulness, which might eventually bring on a suffocation. Hence a cough is almost an inseparable companion of every inflam- mation of the lungs, as well as of every difficulty of respi- ration ; and even frequently accompanies the entrance of the purest air, when the wind-pipe and air-cells of the lungs are excoriated, or become too sensible. Examples also are not wanting, where a violent and troublesome cough has arisen from an irritability of the nervous sys- tem, or even of some particular part, for instance, of the ear, stomach, and intestines, the liver by inflammation, &c. Coughing may also be voluntarily excited, and then may be managed at pleasure. Even when involuntary, it may be moderated, or supressed, by a contrary effort; thongh a violent fit of coughing cannot by any means be resisted. When once excited, the cough goes on until the irritating substance is expelled, or the sense of irritation annihilated, or perhaps overcome by some sensation more uneasy than the cough itself; after which the irritation again returning at a certain interval, the cough also returns. Hence we are taught a method of allaying and quieting this most troublesome malady, though frequently it is not in our power to remove the cause of it altogether. A very violent cough is often dangerous; for, by the retention of the