KING’S College LONDON Library llill KC5M0 R0dO.A6£ 200825118 KING’S COLLEGE LONDONDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21300963_0002■» I ,1 ). V* -■ fi-vr0^ Y^- # /THE SURGICAL WORKS OF JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. &c. See, KlN-tfS COLLEGE HOSrlTA medical SCHOOL. VOLUME THE SECOND. ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD j MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS ; tumours; AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. Z 0 JVJ) 0 N: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. i8i I.^£>4>i'Va. KCOWiO |i..050.rt5E Strahan and Prefton, Printers-Street, London.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON INJURIES OF THE HEADj AND ON MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS. BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETIES OF PARIS, PHILADELPHIA, &C. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL, AND TEACHER OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1810V *\l nr/*"- v-#H • rt ^ r -% ,..Oy .ov ^ y'ii'i:i!t<. t.U ^ »:. J. /’■' .. 4^7 "(T-r •’':*• r •.Tf> ; • ■ r *‘" 7 ^ 0.f« « i<X A , . . « «'4 W* w ^ 1 . in-- '■ ' .6 * *'J i j-v/'j.'! ;7 iU . .ti .rvf v'?/ » > . j ■ I I i .i.Z ' i. V. ■ ' ' i ^' ■ . ' - _-.. • .. , .4 rfl, . /• • . • • . V 4 • * • il -I . • f J •-? ■.V^. -W’ - ■’ - . . k't-. * ' - ■ -I , • ^ «IlK . . t • C , • . 1 i wj '>r« ^ • v' * • • • ^ *-s '' - ■ , I** •• ^ •• € • V’.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. COLLEGE HOSPIT.^L, “ MEDICAL SCHOOL ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SECTION L When the Members of the Academy of Surgery in France, and Mr. Pott in England, feverally inculcated to the fur- geons of their refpedlive countries, the pro- priety and necefllty of trephining the cranium under various circumftances confequent upon injuries of the head, they probably recom- mended a too free and frequent performance of that operation. Such appears to be the opinion of many refpedlable writers who have publifhed fince their time; particularly of M. Default of Paris, Mr. Deafe of Dublin, and Mr. John Bell of Edinburgh. But al- voL. III. JB though2 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD.^ though thefe writers unite in cenfuring th« frequency of the pra6licej they are very far from being agreed in other refpefts j and many material points feem to me to require flill further elucidation. Believing that the obfervations, which I have had an opportunity of making at St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, enable me to throw fome light on this important and in- tricate fubje6l, I am induced to fubmit to the public a Ihort account of feveral cafes that occurred there, and the inferences which I drew from them. The difficulties conne6ted with this part of furgery are fufficiently proved by this circum- ilance, that, notwithftanding it has at all times excited the attention of furgeons of the greateft talents, and poffeffing the moft exten- five field for obfervation, much difference of opinion ftill fubfiffs, and the pradlice that ought to be followed in particular cafes yet remains a matter of difpute. It is not, indeed, probable, tliat any part of medical fcienceON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 3*. fcience can in a fhort time receive all the improvement of which it is capable; for, in proportion as we advance in knowledge, we are led to remark many circumftances in the progrefs of a diforder, which had before pafled’ without notice, but which, if known and duly attended to, would clearly point out to us the nature and remedy of the complaint. Hence, the records of former cafes are of much lefs value, as the fymptoms about which we are now anxious to inquire, have in them been entirely overlooked. I was led to this remark by reading the Works of Hildanus, Wepfer, Du Quefnay, and others, wherein are to be found a num- ber of iuterefting cafes, which I have been precluded from mentioning, as the nature of them cannot be exadlly afcertained in confe- quence of this deficiency. Although I have been for many years at- tentive to the treatment of perfons who had fuffered injuries of the head, and alfo to the examination of the parts after death, where tlie cafe has teiminated fatallyj I fldli perceive B 2 Jq /4 OTJ INJURIES OF THE HEAD. fo many circumftances which require invefti- gation, that I entertain no hope of ever being able to obtain, from my own experience, all the information which is wanted. I hope, however, that the hints offered in this Eflay may have the effedt of inducing furgeons to pay a cloler attention to cafes of this kind, and that thus, by their united obfervations, the public may at length become poffeffed of that knowledge, which the labours of an in- dividual could never fupply. In the accounts which we have of the for- mer pradlice in France, it is related, that furgeons made numerous perforations along the whole track of a fracture of the cranium; and, as far as I am able to judge, without any very clear defign. Mr. Pott alfo advifes fuch an operation, even with a view to pre- vent the inflammation and fuppuration of ' dura mater, which he fo much appre- hended. But many cafes have occurred of late, where, even in fradlures with depreflion, the patients have done well without an opera- . i tiomI ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 5 tion. To confirm the accounts' that have been given of fuch cafes, and by this means to countera6l, in fome degree, the bias which long -accuflomed modes of thinking and a6ling arc apt to imprefs on the minds o.f pra6litioners, I fhall relate the hiflories' of five cafes, that occurred at St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital in the fpace of twelve months; and afterwards offer a few remarks upon the fubjeef. The principal circumflances only of each cafe are related j for, as ^ many examples of the fame kind are to be found in various furgical books, a minute detail of particulars feem to be unneceffary,. • ^ Cafes of FraBure of the Cranium with Dei- prejfion^ which terminated favourably, al- though no Opevfltion was performed, CASE I. A woman, about forty years of age,- was admitted into the hofpital for a wound on her head. About a week before fhe applied for advice her hufband had knocked her down with a brafs candleftick. She was ff unned by ? 3 the6 ON INJCTRIES OF THE HEAfi. the blow, and lay for feme time lenfelefs j but, on recovering, flie felt no other incon- venience than the forenefs occafioned by the wounded integuments. She had fuffered fome flight indifpofition fince the accident. On examining the head, the right parietal bone was found denuded about two inches in extent; a fra6fure of the-fame length was alfo to be felt; and the bone on one fide of the fradlure was deprelTed about the eighth of an inch. — She remained in the hofpital a fortnight, without any bad fymptom oc- curring, and was then, at her own defire, difeharged, although the wound was not perfe6lly healed. CASE II. A boy, about twelve years old, received a kick from a hoffe in Smithfield, which ftun- ned him; and he was immediately brought to the hofpital. The integuments of the fore- head were divided by the injury, and the lower part of the os frontis, and fuperci- liary ridge of the frontal bone depreffed at lead: a quarter of an inch below its original level7 ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. CASE level; the depreffed portion meafurlng about an inch and a half in length. It is obvious that the bone could not be thus deprelTcd without a frafture of fome part of the bafis of the fkull occurring at the fame time, on which account the cafe might be confidered as more dangerous. — In lefs than two hours he had recovered from the im- mediate effedt of the blow, being at that time perfectly fenfible. Fourteen ounces of blood were taken from his arm; his bowels were emptied by a purge j and faline medicines, with antimonials, were diredted to be given. He went on tolerably well for two days, at the end of which time, evident fymptoms of confiderable irritation of the brain took place. He now complained of pain in his head; flept little; and, when dozing, often ftarted, or was convulfed in a flight degree. To remove thefe fymptoms, he was bled twice, took opening medicines occafionally, was kept quiet, and without light, and was allowed only a fpare diet. By continuing this plan for about three weeks, he perfedlly re- covered.8 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. CASE CASE m. A man between thirty and forty years of age, received a blow on the forehead from a brick thrown at him, by which the frontal bone was fraflured about half an inch above the orbit: the fradlure meafured two inches in length, and the upper portion of the bone was deprefled about the eighth of an inch. He was not even ftunned by the blow, and walked to the hofpital without alfiflance, complaining only of forenefs in the wounded integuments. Sixteen ounces of blood were immediately taken from his arm j he was con- fined (much againft his inclination) to a fcanty and liquid diet, and was purged every fecond day. — This patient did not experience any illnefs j and the wound foon healed. CASE IV. A boy, about thirteen years old, had a fraffure, with deprellion, of part of the tem- poral and parietal bones. By fimilar treat- ment, he alfo efcaped without any material ill confequences i but in this cafe, part of the injured bone exfoliated.9 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. CASE V, A girl, i:hlrteen years old, had a confider- able frafture, with depreflion, of the left pa- rietal bone. She was not brought to the hofpital until ten days after the accident. When admitted, fhe was feverifh, had pain in her head, and the little deep fhe got was very much difturbed: but, by the ufe of bleeding, with antiphlogiftic medicines and regimen, fhe foon got perfe6lly well.^ The cafes above related are not offered to notice on account of any Ifriking peculi- arity attending them, but merely to fhew that fuch are not unfrequent, as they all occurred within the courfe of a year. From amongft a great number of fimilar cafes, I fhall fele6t the two following, as the fymptoms attending them were more violent than ordinary. . CASE VI. A lad, feventeen years of age, had his head prefled between a cart-wheel and a poft; by which accident the fcalp on both fides was turned downwards, fo as to expofe the lower halfJO ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD.; half of the parietal bones, the fquamous part of the temporal, and alfo part of the frontal and occipital bones 5 about a quarter of the crafiiuui being thus completely denuded. The periofleum was in feveral places ftript off from the fkull, the fcalp much bruifed, and the pofterior and inferior angle of the left parietal bone was beaten in. The vifi-' ble part of the deprelTed portion was an inch in length, and more than an eighth of . an inch below the level of the cranium ^ but the fradfure extended along the fquamous part of the' temporal bone towards the balls of the flcull; it could not, however, be traced, as the temporal mufcle had not been removed from that part by the injury. — The fcalp being cleanfed was replaced, retained in its fituation by Hips of fticking-plaller, and a flight prelTure by bandage was applied. The boy was perfedtly fenfible, his pulfe regular, and not quickened. He had bled conlider- ably from the temporal artery, which had been divided by the accident: eight ounces of blood were, however, taken from his arm j and fome purging medicine was adminiftered next morning, which procured three or four ftools.ON INJURIES OF THE HEAB. II ftools. — The next day {Friday), his pulfe beat nearly 120 in a minute; his Ikin was hot and dry j and he complained of pain in his forehead. T welve ounces of blood were taken away, and four grains of pulvis anti- monialis ordered to be given three times a day. On Saturday, the former fymptoms ftill continued, and were rather increafed. The antimonial powder made him fick, or at lead; increafed his difpolition to be fo. Four- teen ounces more of blood were taken from him j the vibratory feel of his pulfe not being altered until that quantity was taken away: the blood, on ftanding, appeared very buffy. His fkin, notwithflanding all this, ftill re- ' mained extremely dry; fome antimonial wine was given, which produced vomiting. On Sunday, his pulfe was evidently lowered by the evacuations he had undergone, but it was ftill quick, and fufficiently ftrong. The pain of the head remained as before. Having a 'fufficient number of ftools, and the ftck- nefs ftill continuing, the antimonial powder was omitted. He was bled, however, in the vena faphena, and his feet and legs were afterwards immerfed in warm water j during which,II ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD# which, he, for the firft time, perfpired copi- oufly. A blifter was alfo applied to his neck. — Thefcalp united, with only a trifling fuppuration over the fraftured part of the bone j and to this ready union, the lowering plan, by preventing inflammation, feems very materially to have contributed. The matter colledled over the fradlure was dif- charged by a puncture, and the boy got well, CASE VII. A lad, eighteen years of age, had the fqua- mous part of the temporal bone beaten in j the fradlure ran horizontally, about a quarter of an inch above the zygoma, and could be diftindlly traced with the Anger, introduced through the torn fcalp and temporal mufcle, for two inches. The upper part of the bone was deprefled about one-eighth of an inch; and it was impolTible to trephine below the fradlure in order to elevate the depreflbd por- tion. The lad had recovered from tlie im- mediate flunning occafioned by the injuryj nor was there any fymptom that indicated material derangement of the fun6lions of the brain from the prefTure which it fuftained. HeON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. I3- He was bled largely, and took a purging me- dicine, and was moderately well on the fol- lowing day. On the fecond morning he was again purged j and when I faw him at noon nothing materially wrong appeared j but when I came to the hofpital at eight in the evening I found he had gradually .become delirious, and that he then could fcarcely be kept in bed. His fkin was hot, and his pulfe frequent and ffrong. Thefe fymptoms could be attributed to nothing but inflammation of the brain j he was therefore immediately and largely bled. He now became quiet and manageable; but the next morning his re- plies to all queftions were incoherent, his pulfe frequent, his Ikin hot, and his tongue dry. The bleeding and purging were re- peated, and at night a blifter was applied to his neck. On the following morning he was ileeping and feeble, but his anfwers were rational; as the frequency and fulnefs of his pulfe increafed in the evening, he was again bled. The inflammation of the brain was now fubdued, and the patient gradually re- covered. The wound healed without any exfoliation of bone, and wheji he was dif- chargedX4 on INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 6 In charged from the hofpital there was not the moft trivial circumftance which could induce us to fufpeft that the brain had fuftainedany injury from the accident. His deep was found and undillurbed, and the hidden mo- tion of his head in any dire6lion occafioned no giddinefs or inconvenience. It appears very clearly, I think, from thefe cafes, as well as from a great number of others to be found in books, that a flight degree of prefllire does not derange the fundtions of the brain, for a limited time after its application. That it does not do fo at firfl is very obvious; as perfons are often perfedlly fenhble^ and free from head-ach and giddinefs immediately after the injury. Whether it may not pro- duce fuch an effedt at fome remote period, is not fo eafily determined, fince this cannot be afeertained but by a continued acquaintance with the perfons who had received the injuries. All, however, whom I have had an oppor- tunity of knowing for any length of time after the accident, continued as well as if no- thing of the kind had ever happened to them.ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 15 In Mr. Hill’s Cafes in Surgery, two inftanoes of this fort are related ; and Mr. Hill knew both the patients for many years afterwards, yet did not perceive any inconvenience to to arife. It deferves to be mentioned too, that one of the patients was a failor, and therefore, probably, led a life of irregularity as well as of exertion. The refiilt of cafes of this kind, which I have met with in authors, does not lead to the apprehcnfion of any future mifchief: nor, is it eafy to con- ceive that the prelfure, which caufed no ill ■ effefls at a time when the contents of the cranium filled its cavity completely, fliould afterwards prove injiuious^ when they have adapted themfelves to its altered fize and fliape. Severe illnefs, indeed, does oftendn- tervene between the receipt of the injury and the time of its recovery ^ and many furgeons might be inclined to attribute this to prefTure; but it equally occurs where the depreffed portion is elevated j feveral inftances of which I ihall have occafion to relate, and many others are to be met with in authors. This is 'a circumftance which nothing but very extenfive experience can flisw in a true light. ■ • If,l6 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. If, for inftance, a furgeon who was pre- polTeffed with the opinion that elevation of the bone is neceffary in every imlance of de- preffed cranium, fliould have afted upon this opinion in the firfl, third, fourth, and fifth cafes, and afterwards have employed proper evacuations, his patients might, per- haps, have had no bad fymptoms, and he would naturally have attributed their well- , doing to the mode of treatment which he had purfued: yet thefe cafes did equally well without an operation. If the fame furgeon had been witnefs to the difturbance which arofe in the fecond, lixth, and feventh cafes, he would, without doubt, have attributed them to the continuance of prelTure made by the bone j yet thefe cafes alfo did well by medical treatment only: and when the fymp- toms which come on thus, are of the inflam- matory kind, they may generally be removed by the fame means. Many cafes alfo are to be met with in books, and fome are related in the fubfeq uent part of this Eflay, where not only great but even fatal mifehief enfued, not- withftanding the brain had been relieved from prefllire at an early period. Another furgeon, 3 prejudicedINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 1/ prejudiced againft the ufe of the trephine, might, with equal injuftice, confider the mif- chief, which enfues in certain cafes, as entirely- owing to the operation. The degree of prelTure, which the brain can fuftain without great injury to the fyftem, may probably, vary according to the difpofitioii of that organ to be affedled by it, the fud- dennefs of its application, and the diredlion in which it is made: and although it muft be very difficult to obtain any precife know- ledge on this fubjedl, yet there is great reafon to believe that the brain can bear more pref- fure without injury to it, than was formerly fuppofed. The firft of thefe circumftances feems evident; for in fome perfons a flight preffiire produces fevere fymptoms j whilft, in others, a much greater degree is borne with- out inconvenience. We can rarely judge of - the effedls of prefTure when any part of the cranium is beaten in by a blow; for in that cafe the fhock generally occafions flupefac- tion. Internal haemorrhages, perhaps, afford us the befl criterion whereby to determine the effedls of prefTure on the brain. The VOL. III. c eighthI l8 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. eighth cafe will ferve as an illuftration of this remark, where it appears that a confiderable hcortiorrhage muft have taken place before it ' deprived the patient. of his faculties j for he walked home, undreffed himfelf, and went to bed, after the trunk of the middle artery of the dura mater had been ruptured. In cafes of apoplexy alfo, the haemorrhage is generally very large before it produces thofe confe- quences which deftroy life. The authorities quoted by Morgagni, as well as his own obfervations, fliew that people may recover from apoplexy even after a confiderable effufion of blood has taken place. 'But as the records of fuch cafes are not common, and as it appears to me that further confirmation of them would be highly 'ufeful, I have obtained permifiion of Mr. Wilfon to mention a remarkable cafe of this kind, which occurred to his notice. — A gentleman fell down fuddenly, and re- mained for fome time in that lethargic flate which is ufual in apoplectic cafes j but after- wards gradually recovered his faculties both of mind and body, and continued to exercile themON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ig them very perfe6tly for two years, when a fe- cond attack of the fame kind took place, and deftroyed him. Upon opening the head, tlie caufe of his death became evident; for a large quantity of blood was found in the ventricles, and at the. bafis of the cranium. But what feemed particularly worthy of attentioii, was a cavity in the right hemifphere of the brain, extending from the front to the back part of the cerebrum, being more than four inches in length, and more than an inch in breadth, Within this cavity were contained flakes of coagulated lymph, and a bloody-coloured > fluid, which Mr. Wilfon, whofe abilities and accuracy of obfervation entitle his opinion to the fullefl; credit, was convinced were the re- mains of the blood extravafated at the firfl: attack. I alfo examined the brain of a gentle- man, with whom, for the lafl: five years of his life, I was intimately acquainted. When I firfl: knew him, he was flowly recovering from a fevere fit of apoplexy, which had paralyfed the left fide of his body. Though he could not raife his left arm to his'head, nor move his left thigh and leg with free-* c 2 dom. \ I2t ON INJURIES OK THE HEAU. dom, yet he walked about moderately'well^ and could work in his garden. Every winter he was fubjeft to fits of the gout, and every fummer to fuch a plethoric and inflamma- tory ftate of the vefTeis of the head as to threaten another apoplexy. He was once immediately and mofl; completely relieved from very diftrefTing feelings from the latter caufe, by the abflra^Hon of ten ounces of blood from the temporal artery. The laft fit of apoplexy, which I have mentioned, was the third, with which he had beefi afflicted. The firfl aft'e6led his fpeech, the fecond his right arm, and the third produced the effe6ls which I have related. His bodily and mental powers remained however veiy vigorous, even during the five lafl; years of his life. On dilTe6l:ion three apopleftic cells were found. One was fituated fuperficially in the left lobe of the cerebellum, one in the left hemifphere of the cerebrum, and one, which had probably been the caufe of the lafl: and greatefl: degree of paralyfis, in the middle of the right hemifphere of the brain. Nothing but the membranes, which immediately inveft the brain, covered the effufed fubftance, which hadON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 21 had become of a gelatinous nature. I do not exaggerate, when I fay, that this cavity was large enough to have held fix ounces of blood. Though a flight degree of prefftye does not immediately affedl the funflions of the brain, yet it may aft in another way;— it may excite inflammation of that organ, as it does of other parts of the body. Its power in this refpeft, however, will probably lefTen by the part becoming accuftomed to it; and the cafes on record, where fraftures with de- prdfion have done well, as well as thofe of recovery from apoplexy, are proofs, that the caufe which in the firfl: inftance was injurious by its prefiiire, may continue to exifl with- out inconvenience. Such cafes ought furely to deter furgeons from elevating the bone in every inftance of flight depreflion, fince, by the operation, they muft inflift a further in- juiy upon their patients, the coilfequence of which it is impoflible to eftimate. — From all, therefore, that I have learned from books, as well as from the obfervations I have made in praftice, and from reafoning upon the c 3 fubjeft.22 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. fubje6l, I am difpofed to join in opinion with thofe furgeons, who are againft trephining in flight deprefTions of the fkull, or fmall extra- vaiations on the dura mater. In the latter, it is probable the compreffing caufe will foon be removed by abforption; and in the former, according to the obfervations of Mr. Hill * and Mr. Latta -f*, the bone will regain its natural level if the fabjedf be young. In adults, however, and efpecially in perfons of advanced life, this circumffance cannot be expedred; fo that in them the accommoda- tion of the parts to each other, neceflary for preventing future mifchief, muft .be effedled by a correfponding alteration in the form of the brain. A circumftance, however, frequently oc- curs, that may render the furgeon doubtful as to what courfe he ought to purfue; this happens when, at the fame time that the fkull is flightly depreffed, the patient labours under the effedls of concufTion. The circum- ffances, which generally ferve to diftiriguifli * Cafes in Surgery, p. 113. f Praft. Syft. of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 172. thofeON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 2.3. tliofe two injuries, will be noticed hereafter. At prefent it is only neceflary to obferve, that, as the effefts of the latter gradually abate, a little delay will enable the furgeon to decide upon the nature of the mifchief, and take his meafures accordingly. Where the patient retains his faculties, nothing farther is necef- fery than a continuance of the antiphlogiftic plaiij and fliould any inflammation after- wards take place, the fame means, employed in a degree proportioned to the urgency of the fymptoms, will in moil; inftances be fuc- cefsful without elevating the bone. This O happened in four of the fix foregoing cafes, which are related without any view to this particular point. — But if, from a. peculiar difpcfition of the brain to be affected by preffure, the torpor of that organ fliould continue; or if, after inflammation of the brain has taken place, the preffure fliould then appear to be particularly injurious, the elevation of the bone ought not, I think, to be deferred. And from fome of the cafes related by Mr. O’Halloran, in the fourth volume of the TranlacHons of the Royal Irifli Academy, it appears that this operation, if c 4 notS4 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. not too long delayed, will give effedlual relief under fuch circumftances. The older furgeons certainly trephined unnecefTarily, in confequence of their belief, that the brain was an organ of fo delicate a ftru6lure, that the leaft degree of prelTure would be highly injurious; whilft others, from having witneffed the frequent ill fuccefs attending the operation, and from having obferved that many patients had recovered unexpedledly when it was omitted, feem in- clined, too generally, to reprobate the prac- tice. Under thefe circumftances, it appeared proper, by the recital of inftances to ftiew, what kind of cafes would probably do well without having recourfe to it. With this view I have laid before the public the pre- ceding cafes j and I wifti, in conclufion, to offer in this edition, a few additional Re* marks on the circumftances which would in* fluence my condu6t with regard to the im* mediate performance, poftponement, or omif- fion of the operation. The preceding cafes ftiew, that in general there is no neceffity for trephining in fuch fra£lures of the Ikull as occurred in them. ItON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 25 It may further be ftated as an argument againft the hafty performance of this opera- tion, that it is likely to aggravate the in- flammation of the brain, which in the ma- V jority of cafes comes on in confequence of the injury. If it can be fliewn, that injury done to the fcalp and bone, where there is no fra6lurc or concuflion may fometiraes be produflive of inflammation of the brain, it would then follow, that the injury inflicted on thefe parts in the operation of trephining would probably aggravate the inflammatory fym- ptoms, which are to be expe6fed to fucceed to all violent blows on the head. To fhew that diforder of the brain is likely to take place from its fympathy with the parts which contain that organ, I relate the following cafes. CASE VIII. A coachman Handing on a fmall ladder to clean the top of a carriage, flipt and fell, with his head againft: the window, which was drawn up at the time. The window- being thus broken, the fharp edge of the glafss6 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. glafs divided and turned down the fcalp to a confiderable extent from off the parietal and frontal bones. In this ftate he came to my houfe, with the arteries bleeding profufely. I tied two of them, replaced the fcalp, and fent him to tlie hofpital: the next day he did not appear much indifpofed ; but after another day or two had elapfed, he fuffered much from inflapimation of the fcalp, part of which was even in a iloughy ffate. The patient had, at the fame time, violent fever, and great diforder of his flomach and bowels. Small dofes of calomel and gentle aperients were given for the latter affedlions •, and he alfo took faline, and other febrifuge medi- cines. After about a week had elapfed, the fcalp aflumed a much better appearance, the inflammation having fubfided,and the houghs being detached. Neverthelefs, his febrile Hate became aggravated, and a kind of deli- rium and fymptoms indicating inflammation of the brain, came on, which venaefedtion did not fubdue. The patient died, and his liead being examined, it was found, that the brain and its membranes had under- gone confiderable inflammation, which, from 7'*' theON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 27 the degree of effafion between tlie tunica arachnoidea and dura mater, and between it and the pia mater, appeared to have lafted for a confiderable time. CASE IX. A man had the fcalp bruifed and torn down from off the frontal bone by the wheel of a cart. He was not ftunned at all by the accident. The bruifed fcalp monified and tlie bone was left bare. He remained in the hofpital waiting for exfoliation, and as he had no illnefs, but little attention was paid to him. After about two months, however, he became weak, and ultimately delirious, and died; on examination an abfcefs con- taining about one ounce and a half of pus was found in the front lobe of the cere- brum, beneath the dead bone, and full half an inch from tlie furface. If then irritation and inflammation of the fcalp and bone may fometimes produce fimi- lar affe6lions . of the brain and its mem- branes, this very circumftance affords an argument for performing the operation in a certainSS ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. certain defcription of cafes, in which, indeed, its neceffity may not be immediately appa- rent. I allude to thofe cafes in which, though the bone be but flightly depreffed, and may not occalion decifive fymptoms of prelTure, yet it may be broken into many pieces, and the fcalp be fo bruifed, or other- wife injured, as not to be likely to unite by ad- hefion. Inflammation and fuppuration mufl: now enfue in the fcalp, and fome of the pieces of the bone will probably perifh, and mufl: be detached by tedious procelTes, which may induce difeafe in the fubjacent mem- branes of the brain, as well as in that por- tion of the organ which they invefl:. I have therefore deemed it necelfary to trephine in fome cafes of this defcription; and I think it will be ufeful to relate briefly one cafe of this kind. It will alfo ferve as a contrail; to to that which immediately fucceeds to it, CASE X. A drunken woman was knocked down on Blackfriars Bridge, by a blow with a cane, which had a round leaden head, about an inch in diameter. A circular piece of bone was beatenON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Ctg beaten In to the depth of a quarter of an inch, and ftarred or broken into many fragments. By dividing the fcalp, I had the power of reflefting a portion of the integuments, fo that I could trephine the bone, and remove the fhattered and depreffed pieces. I alfo took out a clot of coagulated blood as large as a walnut. The wound was clofed by (licking plafter, a comprefs laid over the part, and bound on by (licking-plafter. The patient was largely bled, and a dofe of purga- tive medicine was given. It was difhcult to determine whether the (leepy and ftupid (late of the patient was chiefly the effe6l of the injury or inebriety. She complained loudly during the operation. The next dav, when the (Indents of the hofpital wifhed to examine whether the dref- fmgs were difplaced or not, (lie refufed to per- mit them; but on my entering the ward, (he faid, aye, now he is come, you may examine if you pleafc. I need only add further, that a treatment calculated to prevent and con- trol) inflammation was ftridlly perfevered in, and that the patient (hortly became per- fedlly well. CASEON INJURIES OF THE HEAm CASE XI. June 3, 1802. A coachman, twenty- three years of age, was thrown from his box. The middle of the anterior edge of the right parietal bone was fradtured, and a piece about the fize of a hxpence was (lightly depreffed. He foon recovered from the (fun- ning occafioned by the fall, and did not come to the hofpital till the fucceeding day^ As he was perfectly well, he was but (lightly bled, and no bad confequences of this injury appeared for two months. At this time he came again to the hofpital, complaining of (pafms in his left arm. The wound, which was not yet healed being examined, the de- prefled bone was found to be loofe, and was removed, which alleviated the fpafms. Soon afterwards a portion of the external table of the (kull alfo came away. In the middle of September his health feemed much deranged, and he continued to get weaker till the middle of Odtober. The dura mater had gradually become protuberant, and covered with a fungus; it at la(t gave way, and coagulated blood was difcharged, mixed with detachedON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 31 pieces of the fubflance of the brain. The left arm had now loft its* fenfation, though the patient could feebly diredt its motions. On the 17th of O6lober the patient became very ill, and much bloody ferum was difcharged from the wound. He was delirious during the night, but on the next day underftood all queftions - propofed to him; blood and brain were difcharged tlirougli the wound. On the evening of the 19th he died. There was found a vacancy in the membranes of the brain, oppofite to the deficiency in the bone, through which the effufed blood and injured brain had been difcharged. In other thefe membranes were porfedtl found. The whole right hemifphere of brain feemed to be reduced into a pulpy and fetid mafs, compofed of a mixture of blood and brain; except that the cortical fub- ftance, to the depth of about half an inch, remained found. This large cavity communicated with the left ventricle under the fornix. It may be further ftated as an argument againft the immediate performance of the operation /ON INJURIES OE THE HEAD. Operation of trephining, in cafes where its neceffity is dubious, that it deprives the brain and its membranes of that natural fup- port which they receive from the bone. Un- der thefe circumftances, when inflammation comes on, the volume of the parts contained in the cranium, will be fo confiderably aug- mented by the prasternatural diilention of their veflels, and fubfequent effufion of fluids, as to be protruded up into one aperture. The dura mater is likely to give way, and the pia mater becoming expofed, will be more fubje£l to inflammation. It now fuflains the preflure which was formerly fupported by the dura mater, and in its turn ulcerates, and the brain will protrude and produce fungous excrefcences. Thefe circumftances are more particularly likely to happen in children; in them, indeed, the dura mater is fo firmly conne6ted with the bone, that it is rarely feparated by accidental violence, and it is even difficult to tear off the bone, when it has been perforated by the trephine. The argument againft immediately trephining the cranium, unlefs urged to it by great neceffity, applies, therefore, more ftrongly toON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 33 to cafes of children than to hmilar accidents occurring in adults. Thefe remarks (hew the neceffity for the moft copious evacuations after the oj)eration of the trephine, in order to prevent as much as pollible the augmenta- tion of the bulk of the contents of the cra- nium by fubfequent inflammation and effu- fion, and which is productive of the preju- xiicial effeCts above fliated. With a view to obviate thefe, the plan of treatment inftituted by Mr. Mynors of Bir- mingham, highly deferves imitation. Having, by a Ample divifion of the fcalp, gained room for the application of the trephine, and removal of the depreffed bone, he clofed the wound attentively, and the fcalp united by adhefion to the dura mater on which it lay. A gentle prelTure, fuch as would give to the membranes of the brain that fupport which they were wont to receive from the bone, feems alfo likely to be ufeful. There are, doubtlefs, fome depreflions of the Ikull that it would be abfurd not to elevate by an immediate operation, for in VOL. III. j> them34 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. them the prefTure on the brain would of itfelf be produdtive of fatal confequcnces. The arguments which I have dated againft the immediate performance of the operation, apply therefore, in my opinion, only to dubious cafes to thofe in which, perchance, upon the fubfidence of the inflammatory Jymptoms, the prelTure may be found not to be fo great, but that it may be borne with- out detriment, though there is a rifque that it may be detrimental. Under thefe circumflances, by poflponing the operation, we avoid the aggravation of the inflammatory fymptoms which imme- diately fucceed to the injury, and thofe con- fequences which arife from leaving an aper- ture in the cranium into which the contained parts are likely to be protruded, I fay, by poftponing the operation, becaufe, if upon the fubfidence of the inflamiuatory fymp- toms, the prelTure by itfelf is found to pro- duce prejudicial elTedts, we are ftill at liberty to perform it, nor is it likely to be attended with that violent inflammation which arifes from the injury and operation conjointly. ThereON INJURiES OF THE tlEADi ^here miift be dubious cafes^ for a degree of prdfure which might be borne in one per- fon without inconvenience, may, in another, Gccahon a torpid if ate of the brain, or other fymptoms requiring its removal. Mri. O’Hal- loran’s cafes appear, therefore, to me very Valuable, beCaufe they fhew that the opera- tion of trephining will fucceed under thefe circumftances ; and, I know, that it has been twice performed of late in London with per- fedl relief of thofe fymptoms for which it Was required, and without being followed by any inflammation which was not readily Controlled.ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD, SECTIOJ^ II.' Injuries of the Head attended with f,xtra^ct^' fat ion of Blood upon the Dura Mater. In the three following cafes the Ikull was broken, and depreffed at the part which co- vers the middle artery of the dura mater, by which means that veflel was lacerated. The attention of furgeons has not been fufficiently dire6led to this event, although it is of the ntmoft importance j for the life of the patient might often be faved, if the nature of the accident were known, and the bone Ipeedily perforated. — Thefe cafes likewife difplay, in a very ftriking manner, fome of the eftedls caufed by great prelTure on the^ brain. CASE XII. A man was knocked down hy the iron hooks of a crane, *\yhich fell upon his head from a confiderable height. He was ftunned at firft, but foon recovered his powers of mind and body fo far as to walk home, un- drefs himfelf, and go to bed. A furgeon wagGN INJURIES OP THE HEAD. >was feiit for, who, on his arrival, found the jnan fenfelefs, and in a deeply apopledlic ftate. The patient was immediately brought to St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, when the func- tions of life feemed neaidy fufpended, as he was almoft without fenfation, his breathing being flow, irregular, and ftertorous, with an unequal, intermitting pulfe, and cold ex- tremities.— The fcalp covering the right parietal bone was wounded j and on divid- mg it more extenfively, a fradture with de- preflion was difcovered, running obliquely acrofs the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, over the temporal bone, and extending to the bafis of the cranium, before the maftoid procefs, Several perforations with the trephine were made along the courfe of the fradture, apd the deprefled portion taken away. A furprifing quantity of con- gealed blood was found upon the dura mater j the coagulum being not lefs than an inch and half in thicknefs, and fix or feven inches in circumference. On the removal of this coagulum, the brain, which had been in- dented by its prelTure, remained in the fame ftate as before, nor did it ever regain its ori- V 3 .15^ ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, agulated blood 5 I therefore made the next glnal level ^ fo that the patient experienced but little benefit from the operation, and h@ died about twelve hours after receiving the blow, The dura mater, in this cafe, was not torn through in any part 3 fo that the blood could not have come from any veffel within that membrane. The fource of fuch a profufe haemorrhage, however, could not be doubtful,^ when it was known that the fradture crofTed,^ and had probably wounded, the principal artery of the dura mater; yet that veffel did pot bleed after it was expofed.| CASE XIII, A boy, about fourteen years of age, fell from a fcaffold near two flories high, and pitche-d on his head. When brought from Iflington to the hofpital, he appeared to b^ almoft in a dying ftate. The anterior inferior- angle of the parietal, and part of the frontal bones, were found depreffed. A piece of the cranium being taken out widi the trephine, I difcovered beneath it a large quantity of co-"on injuries of the head. 3? perforation nearer to the trunk of the princi- pal artery of the dura mater, from which I concluded that this htemorrhage had taken ^)lace. Having gently removed fome of the coagulum, and introduced my finger into the aperture which had been made, I pafTed it as far as the fecond joint, before I could toudi the dura mater. Fluid arterial blood now guflied out in fuch quantities as to keep the bone covered on which I was next to tre- phine. I ran no rifque, however, in per- forming the operation; for the dura mater was deprefled fo much that it could not be injured. But to guard againft even the pof- fibility of fuch an accident, I introduced my finger between the dura mater and flcull, and then perforated the bone with the trephine. Having thus removed a third piece, which was diredly over the principal artery, I took out about four ounces of coagulated blood j upon which the dura mater quickly rofe to its original level, and the hsemorrhage from the wounded artery ceafed. I now entirely removed the deprefled portion of bone, and thus uncovered all the dura mater which had |)eeri detached 5 fo that I could diftindtly feel D 4 Us40 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAS>, its conneclion with the cranium all round. •i This fatisfied me that no more extravafated blood was left behind.— The lad, who at the beginning lay quite infenfible, with a feeble, intermitting pulfe, and laborious interrupted refpiration, became reftlefs, and expreffed fen- fations of pain towards the latter part of the: operation. Being now afked, how he found himfelf? he replied, very well j Whether his head ached ? he anfwered, no j If he was fure that he felt no pain ? he faid he was fure, and v>/iflied we would leave him alone. — I now took twelve ounces of blood from his arm, and he was put to bed, where he paffed the night quietly. The next morning his bowels were completely emptied by a purge j and faline medicines, with antimony, were given, fo as to keep the fkin in a gentle ifate of per- fpiration. During the day he was fleepy, and lay quiet j anfwered queftions 'very ra- tionally, and complained of pain and giddi- nefs in hi's head. — The third day he was difturbed, and lefs rational. Eight ounces of blood were taken from him, and a bliiler was applied to his neck. Thefe means re- lieved him greatly, and he became quite tranquilQN INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 41 tranquil and colle6led. — On the fixth day, fymptoms of irritation again took place, and were again relieved by fimilar treatment. The dura mater had granulated, and the whole wound looked healthy. Eveiy thing went on remarkably well until the fifteenth day, when the patient was feized with rigor and pain in his head, and the healthy afpedt of the wound was alfo changed. The fol- lowing day, there was perceived, in the middle: of the expofed dura mater, an aperture through which a protrufion of the brain, arofe, covered by the pia mater, which retained its natural appearance. In lefs than twenty- four hours this tumor increafed to the fize of an orange; its furface was dark-coloured, and irregular, and the pia mater no longer diftinguifhable. The following morning the boy died; and his friends had removed the body from the hofpital before I knew of his deceafe. I regretted very much that I could not ex- amine the nature of this fungus or hernia cerebri, as it was a phaenomenon which I had more than once contemplated with furprife, andON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 42 and the nature of which I was afterwards for^ tunately enabled to afcertain, CASE XIV. A man was knocked down in Smithfield by a brick-bat, thrown at him by fomc villians againft whom he had appeared as evidence upon a trial. He was immediately brought to the hofpital; but in a ftate of profound apoplexy.'-— The right fide of the frontal bone, and the lower part of the parietal, were beaten in^ the area of the depreffed piece being two inches in diameter. After making three perforations in the circumference, I was enabled to remove the depreffed portion. I then took out a large handful of coagulated blood, which lay upon the orbitary procefs of the frontal bone, and had fo preffed back the anterior lobe of the brain, that I could, with my finger, touch the tranfverfe fpinous procefs of the fphenoid bone. The brain now rofe flowly, in confequence, I fuppofe, of the blood gradually finding its way through the compreffed veffels 5 and the man began to fliew figns of returning fenfe. — He was bled, and his bowels were emptied by a purge.ON INJURIKS OF THE HEAD. 43 The next day he was fo far recovered as to give an imperfeft account of the accident 3 but on the third day, he died convulfed. On diffeflion, fome blood was found be- tween the dura'and pia mater, and traces of in- flammation appeared on the latter membrane, Mr, Hill, of Dumfries, relates a cafe (the fifth), where the artery of the dura mater was ruptured without either fradture or de- preflion of the Ikull j and when he trephined a fecond time, four days after the accident, be found fo large a coagulum of blood lying Vipon that membrane, as to make him afraid of removing it all at once: but on taking out a few ounces of it, the patient, who had hitherto lain in a ftate of apoplexy, looked'up^ pn being fpoken to, like one awakened from fleep, — knew, and named every body, and raifed the arm belonging to the oppofite fide, which had been paralytic from the time of the accidept, In Mr, Latta’s Surgery alfo, a fimilar cafe (as fhewn on dilfedlion) is related, in which44 ON INJURIiiS OF THE HEAD. an uncommon flownefs of the pulfe, and coma without llertor, were the fymptorns produced. Thefe cafes fliew that a fra6turc of the fkull is not likely to be followed by an equal degree of extravafation in every part, as the yeffels eonnedfing the dura mater to the cra- nium are, in mold parts of that membrane, of a fmall fize. If thefe are accidentally rup- tured, a flight haemorrhage enfues, which foon fdops, and only a thin ftratum of coagulated blood is found when the bone is removed. But if the fradlure happens in the track of the principal artery of the dura mater; if the trunk, or even a conliderable branch of that veflel be torn, the haemorrhage will be pro- fufe, and the operation of the trephine be- come immediately neceffary to preferve the life of the patient. In the three cafes that I have related, the operation was done very fliortly after the accident: in the firft cafe, the brain was fo compreffed that it did not regain its level; in the third, it rofe llowly as ION INJURIES OF THE HEAD; 45 as the blood found its way through the vef- fels j and in the fecond, it rofe quickly, and the fundlions of the brain were as quickly reftored. It can fcarcely be doubted, then, that if the operation had been performed in. thefe cafes as foon as it became neceffary, when, perhaps, only one inftead of many ounces of blood were poured forth from the torn veflel, the'lives of the patients might have been preferved. It is of great importance to diftinguidi ac- curately the nature of fuch cafes; and the diftindHon is not difficult when there is an inteiwal of fenfe between the blow and the ftupor occafioned by the effufed blood. In the firft related cafe, for inftanCe, the nature of the accident was made fufficiently evident by this drcumftance. But though we are affured that the patient labours under the effeds of compreffion, we cannot, in many inftances, know the fituation of the com- preffing caufe. In other cafes, again, where there is no interval of fenfe after the accident, we are at a lofs to determine whether the fenfelefs ftate be the effedl of compreffion or ofON INJURIES OF THE tlEAD^ of concuffion. Every fiirgeon inuft ackiloW?» ledge that it would be a very defirable thing to afcertain when blood is effufed between the dura mater and the Ikull; for if the extras vafation has happened in the more interior* parts, a furgical operation is not likely to afford relief Now, if the extravafation which compreffes the brain, be fituated im- mediately beneath the bone, I think there are figns by which it will be difclofed 5 and as fufficient notice has not been taken of thefe, I widi particularly to call the attention of furgeoils to them. * In thofe cafes, which I have feeri, where blood waS extravafated between the dura and pia mater, and a divi- fion of the former membrane was made for its difchai'ge, in fome inftances the ferous part of it only could be eva- cuated ; for the coagulum was fpread over the hemifi phere of the brain, arid had defeended as low as pof* fible towards its inferior part; in others, though a portion of the eifufed blood was difeharged in a fluid ot grumous ftate, a confiderable quantity which was coagu- lated remained behind, fo that very little relief was obtained by the operation. It feenis then, that extfava*- \ fation between the dura mater and the cranium is almofl; j the only cafe which admits of being remedied by the ufe | ^ of the trephine. I have«N INJURIES OF THE HEAD. '4/ I have already faid, that, unlefs one of the large arteries'of the dura mater be wounded, the quantity of blood poured out will pro- bably be inconfiderable; and the flight com- preflion of the brain which this occahons, may not be attended with any peculiar fymp- toms i or perhaps it may occafion fome flu- por, or excite an irritation difpofing the fub- jacent parts to become inflamed: but both thefe efledls will gradually abate, nor will any inflammation enfue, if proper means are taken to prevent-in It is indeed highly pro- bable, that, in many cafes which have done well without an operation, fuch an extrava- fation has exifted. But if there be fo much blood on the' dura mater as materially to de- range the fundfions of the brain', the bone, to a certain extent, will no longer receive blood from within; and by the operation performed for its expofui e, the pericranium mufl; have been feparated from its outflde. I believe that a bone fo circumftanced will not be found to bleed; and J am, at leafl, certain, it cannot, with the fame freedom and celerity as it does when the dura mater remains connedled with it internally. I need> . ^ 48 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD; need hardly fay, that, in the cafes which I have related, there was not the lead: haemorrhage. But it is right to mention, that I have alfo twice been able, by attend- ing to the want of haemorrhage from the outfide of the cranium, to afcertain the extent to which the dura mater was de- tached within; and very frequently, when fymptoms appeared to demand a perfora- tion of the fkull, I have feen it contra- indicated by the haemorrhage from the bone, and, as the event has proved, rightly. ' When the bone has remained long bare, the cafe may become perplexing. I once fcraped a portion of the cranium which had been fome time denuded, and found that it bled in fuch a manner, as, in my opinion, fufficiently to point out the ad- helion of the dura mater, and of courfe the inutility of employing the trephine * In aged perfons, and In thofe in whom the circula- tion has been rendered languid by the accident, the mode of diftin£Hon which I have pointed out, may indeed be iefs conclufive; Where49 ON INJURIES THE HEAD. Where the extravafation on'the dura mater is but fmall, it will probably not require any operation. A flight haemorrhage from the bone, which may happen from the anaftomo^ fing of the veffels within its fubflrance, will not, in this cafe, lead to any injurious error. But from what I have obferved, I am in- clined to believe, that even a fmall effufion of blood will diminifli the haemorrhage from the fuperincumbent bone. ' Mr. Pott had an idea, that the bone would perifh when the dura mater was detached for • a conflderable fpace from its infidej and fome cafes which he has related, feem to favour this opinion: but many other cafes to be met with in authors, and many which have occurred to my obfervation, prove that the opinion was not well founded. .Indeed we cannot fuppofe that the bone would perifli from this caufe j for it flill receives blood, not only from the anaftomofmg of veffels within its fubftance, but alfo from the pericranium ex- ternally ; and the fuccefs which has of late attended the operations for aneurifm in the lower limbs, fhews that parts of great bulk VOL. III. , E andON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SO and vafcularity will continue to live when their ufual fupply of blood is very much diminifhed. If, however, the dura mater fhould be detached for a confiderable extent from the infide of the IkuH, at the fame time that the pericranium fhould alfo be ftripped from its outfide, I am inclined to believe that a portion of the bone would, in that cafe, die and exfoliate.ON INJURIES O? THE HEAD. 51 SECTION III. Cafes of Fungus^ or Hernia Cerehri. CASE XV. MAN, about forty years of age, was knocked down, and had a confiderable part of the parietal bone, near the coronal future, depreffed, by a ftone falling on his head from a high building. A portion of bone was taken out, and the depreffed piece elevated. The patient, after this, feemed to obtain great relief from the ftupor under which he had till then laboured. But the next day, he became very reftlefs and delirious, and frequently endeavoured to get out of bed. Evacuations were prefcribed, and a buffer applied to his head, by which means the fymptoms were leffened, but did not entirely go off j they continued near fix days, only vai7ing fomewhat in degree. His ftrength was now very much reduced; and though he became more tranquil, he was ffill delirious, and a coma fupervened, which increafed52 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. increafed daily. — On the tenth day, upon uncovering the wound in order to drefs it, a hernia cerebri appeared, riling through an ulcerated opening in the dura mater. The tumour at this time was not larger than a pigeon’s egg; the pia mater, ftretched over its furface, was inflamed; and a turbid ferum oozed at its lide from beneath the dura mater. On the following day, the tumour had acquired the fize of a hen’s egg, was flill fmooth on its furface, and apparently ready to burff. On the day after, before the time of drelTing, the man died. — Upon examin- ing the tumour now, it was found larger than before, and of a dark colour, with an irregular granulated furface; which appear- ance feemed owing to coagulated blood which adhered to its furface, as the part had bled fo much, that oiie half the cap which the man had worn, was rendered quite ftilF by it. In raifing the top of the Ikull to infpedt the con- tained parts, the tumour was in fome degree torn from its bafis. The pia mater was in general much inflamed, and, as well as the dura mater, was deficient at the place where the tumour protruded. A part of this tumour being53 , ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. being cut ofF where it was lacerated, appeared to confift of coagulated blood of a fibrous texture. The brain was now taken out, and the tumour carefully examined, when it was found to be of the fame nature throughout, and to have originated within the fubftance of the brain, about an inch below the furface; but I could not difcover the open velTel from which the haemorrhage had proceeded. I The appearances, on dilTeftion, clearly ex- plained the caufe of the fymptoms which had taken place, and rendered it evident, that the difeafe under which this man had chiefly la- boured, was inflammation of the pia mater. The nature of the tumour, alfo, was not lefs fatisfadlorily pointed out. It was plain, that, in confequence of the brain being in- jured to fome depth beneath the furface, difeafe of the veflels, and confequent effufion of blood, had enfued j that the effufion was for a time reftrained by the fuperincum- bent brain and its membranes; but thefe gradually yielded to the expanfive force ex- erted from within, and at lafl: giving way altogether, the fluid blood oozed out and E 3 con-54 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD# congealed upon the furface of the tumour# It appears very probable, that the difeafe fre- quently defcribed by the term hernia cerebri, confifts,as in thisinftance, of a tumour formed by coagulated blood j for an organized fun- gus could hardly be produced in fo Ihort a time as that in which thefe tumours are ufually formed. CASE XVI. A carpenter, while at work in a newly- built houfe, was crufhed by a part of the wall falling in upon him. His abdomen was bruifed, his clavicle broken, and his head wounded. Beneath the wounded fcalp, the right parietal bone was found fra6lured and deprefled. He was flightly comatofe for many hours after being brought to the hof- pital, yet anfwered rationally to thofe quef- tions that were put to him. As the coma, however, remained, and his pulfe did not beat with the freedom that is ufual, the fur- geon under whofe care he was admitted, thought it right to trephinehim. Accordingly, one perforation being made, the deprefled bone was elevated. No blood was found uponON INJURIES OF THE HEAD.* 55 Upon the dura mater, nor did any thing in- dicate the propriety of ufing the trephine a fecond time. The patient was largely bled; and faline medicines, with antimony and opium, were given. As he complained much of pain in his belly, fomentations were ap- plied to this part, and clyfters adminiftered occafionally. He was again bled on the fecond and fourth days after the operation. At the end of a week^the antimony was omitted, on account of his weaknefs j and he leemed to get rather better, until December 7, twelve days after the accident, wheii_a hernia cerebri appeared, rifing through an aperture in the dura mater, oppofite to the perforation in the Ikull. It increafed rapidly in fize, and exhibited the fame appearance defcribed in the foregoing cafe. — Two day$ after this, the patient died. On examining the head, the dura mater was found every where adherent to the Ikull j but on its inner layer there was a fecretion of pus. The hernia cerebri, which had pulhed up through an ulcerated opening in the dura mater, was of a tibrous texture, and evidently E 4 formed56 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. formed of congealed blood depofited in the medullary part of the cerebrum j the con- j;aining cavity being about an inch diameter, and its parietes appearing to be the fubftance of the brain condenfed by preflure. I was equally unfuccefsful here in my fearch after the veffel, whence the blood had iffued. The ventricles of the brain were full of a ferous fluid mixed with blood, and a large abfcefs was alfo found in the fpleen. — In this cafe, the mental faculties were not deranged as in the former. Both the fymptoms and diflec- tion fliew the difeafe to have confifted in the effe61:s of concuflion, with inflammation of the dura mater, and fubfequcnt effufion into the ventricles of the brain. The opinion I had formed refpecling the nature of hernia cerebri was now confirmed; and I think it received additional illuftration from the following cafe, although the difeafe was in a different part of the body. — A patient in the hofpital had a difeafe in the head of the tibia, from whence there arofe an an unhealthy fungus, which Mr. Blicke re- moved j and afterwards, the bone was kept bareON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. . 57 bare by cauftic applications, in hopes that a reparation of the difeafed parts would take place. The patient, however, became fe- verifh, and his health was much impaired. On the ceffation of the fever, there fuddenly arofe, within the wound, a fungus-like fub- ftance, about the f ze of a large apple, which feemed to fprout from the bone j it was of a livid colour, and its furface appeared as if covered with Houghs. I took off the tumour, which was nothing but coagulated blood, with the knife; and fome blood oozed from its bafis, but the haemorrhage was flopped by the application of lint. In a few hours, however, a limilar fungus-like tumour arofe. As both the fize and fituation of the open velTel were unknown, and as the patient could neither fupport the lofs of much blood, nor the irritation which an extenfive wound, made in fearch of the artery, together with that arifmg from the difeafed bone, would infallibly produce, it was judged bell to remove the limb. This was accordingly done; and upon injecting water into the popliteal artery, it was found to be a branch of that velTel which had given way. 6 It5^ OiJ' INJURIES OF the HEAD, It feems that Pare, and the furgeons wha lived about his time, often miftook the tu- mours that arofe out of the cranium, for* aneurifms, on account of their pulfatory mo- tion. M. Louis, in the Mem. de VAcad. de. Chirurgie^ tom. V. has well diftinguifhed the nature and treatment of thofe proceeding from difeafes of the dura mater or bone. There may, perhaps, be tumours of various kinds arifing from the pia mater and brain; but if there are fuch, I believe they have not been difcriminated j and the accounts given of many of them by authors, are fimilar to thofe juft recited. They have generally been treated of under the name of fungus or hernia cerebri j and if the effufed blood of which they confift, ever acquired vafcularity, they might then deferve that title: but none of thofe that I have juft noticed were of an or- ganized ftrudlure. — Their formation feems to proceed from an injury done to a part of the brain by conculTion or contufion, which has terminated in a ciifeafed ftate of the veffels, fimilar to what occurs in apoplexy. The morbid ftate increafmg, one or more veffels give way, and an effafion of blood into the c - fubftanceON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 59 fubflance of the brain enfaes, which, if the fkull were entire, would probably occafion apoplexy, but, where there is a deficiency of bone that allows it to expand, prefles the furface of the brain and its meninges through the vacant fpace. ‘ The dura mater foon ulcerates, and the tumour pufliing through the openings, now increafes with a rapidity proportioned to that with which the hemor- rhage takes place within. At laid, the pia mater, and the ftratum of the brain which cover the elfufed blood, are fo extended as to give way, and the blood oozes out and coa- gulates. — Thus, the quick growth, and all the other phenomena obfervable in thefe tumours, are fatisfa6torily accounted for. The plan of treatment to be adopted with tumours of the kind vAiich I have deferibed, is next to be confidered ; but as I have had no opportunities of acquiring knowledge as to the treatment of thefe difeafes, fince I be- came acquainted with the nature of them, I can only offer a few general remarks on - this fubjeft. Where6o ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Where no bad fymptoms precede the ap- pearance of the tumour, or where they go entirely away upon its being freed from the confinement of the dura mater, it may, per- haps, be moft prudent not to interfere in the treatment of the complaint: for probably the haemorrhage will ceafe, and the coagulum will drop off in pieces or gradually wafte away, and be no more renewed -j*. All that appears neceflary, then under Inch circum- ftances, is to cover the tumour and fore with fome mild drelfing, carefully avoiding all prelTure, which both reafon and experience fhew is likely to be attended with bad confe- quences. Should the bulk of the tumour, however, become inconvenient, or render prelTure from the drelfings unavoidable, the pradtice which prefent experience has fliewii * See a cafe m the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, vol. I. p. 98, where the tumour continued to increafe for fourteen days, and had acquired the fize of a goofe’s egg, when it dropped off in pretty large pieces. A fimilar cafe is related in the Medical Mufeum, vol. iv. p.453. Fabrlcius Hildanus relates a cafe in his Fifteenth Obfervation, where the tumour arifing from the brain became, in 24 hours, as large as a hen’s egg, and after- wards gra4ually difappeared. toON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 6 I to be moll fuccefsful, con fids in occafionally paring off the tumour with a knife. In this manner Mr. Hill treated feveral cafes with fuccefs. But if the tumour continues to increafe, and if the patient fuffers a train of bad fymp- toms, apparently arifing from irritation and preffure made on the brain, fomc further attempt to relieve him /eems to be required. Under thefe circumftances, we have reafon to fufpe6l that the coagulum, from want of room to protrude, is enlarged internally ; or that by plugging up the orifice in the bone, it prevents the efcape of fome fluid colledled within the cranium^. The obvious mode of * Mr. Hill, In relating a cafe of this kind, fays, that he was obliged to (have away the tumour, and pulh a lan» cet into its root as often as the ftupor and other fymp- toms (hewed that matter was lodged there, by which the patient was uniformly relieved, and afterwards reco- vered.”— (See his Cafes in Surgery, p. 91-2.) But very different was the event in two fimilar cafes (one is recorded by Scultetus, in his Armamentarium Chirurgicum, Obf. XIX.; the other in the Lond. Med. Journal, vol. x. p. 277-)) in which repeated attempts were made to prevent the62 ON INJURIES or THE HEAD. The of relief here appears to be, to enlarge the opening in the bone in proportion to the extent and increale of the tumour. Many furgeons have objected to the removal of much of the cranium, left protufions of this kind fhould enftic ^ but it is evident that thefe tumours, arife from an injury and con- fequent difeafe of a part of the brain, the event of which muft be more fatal if the bone were entire. A large removal of bone was formerly a frequent event j but a protrufioii of this kind very feldom took place. But although, by thus allowing a free efcape to the effufed blood, we may prevent the injurious effedts of its preflure on the brain, yet the degree of haemorrhage may endanger the life of the patient. the growth of the tumour by compreffion: one patient died at the end of a month j the other not until nearly fix months after the accident. In the brain of each there was found, upon difleftion, a large cavity, which had been formed by the accumulation of a fluid that could not efcape, on account of the aperture in the bone being clofed by the tumour.ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 63 / The quantity of blood eftufed will depend on the magnitude of the veflels, or on their difpofition to bleed. As the difeafe is gene- rally fituated not far beneath the fur face of ' the brain, there is lefs rifque of its proceeding from the former caufe. If it arifes from the latter. It is very likely that the diftention caufed by the confinement of the effufed blood would irritate the veffels, and keep up their difpofition to hasmorrhage^ therefore the treatment already recommended is likely to diminifh it. But fhould the quantity^of the hsemorrhage feem to threaten the life of the patient, I fhould think it moft proper to take away the coagulum, and to expofe the cavity in the brain, in order to learn whether fuffering fome hidden lofs of blood to take place, together with the expofure of the bleeding veflels, might not produce a bene- ficial change, and a ceffation of the haemor- rhage. I am induced to propofe this mode of'condudf, from reafoning founded on ana- logy: for in other parts of the body a haemorrhage will fometimes continue, not- withftanding a confiderable preflure made by U large quantity of coagulum, together with* that64 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. that which the refiftance arifing from the clofure of the external opening, and that which is occalioned by the dreilings, con- jointly produce. Yet, upon expoling the bleeding furface, the haemorrhage will ceafe, and never afterwards be renewed. I am Hill further induced to propofe this plan of treatment, becaufe I do not perceive any other which carries with it a probabi- lity o-f fuccefs. The impropriety of attempt- ing to reftrain the haemorrhage by prelTurc has been fliewn; ligatures cannot be applied, and. ftyptics are known, by experience, to be dangerous.. I {hall extradt one cafe from the firft vo- lume of the Memoires deVAcademie de Chirur^ gie to fhew that the removal of the coa- gulum is not likely to be attended with any alarming confequences. — A young man re- ceived a blow on the right parietal bone, which occafioned a fradture j fome bone was ♦ See the Memoire of Mr. Du Quefnay, loth Ob- fervation. removedON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 65 removed, and a hernia cerebri was afterwards produced, which was repeatedly pared down with the knife. On the thirty-fifth day from the accident, the patient having intoxicated himfelf, while in this ftate, flipt his hand under the dreffings, and laying hold of the protruding coagulum, tore it away with vio- lence. The next day the furgeon found, that almoft the whole of what he conlidered as corrupted brain, was removed, and a vacancy left,' fo deep, that he could fee nearly to the corpus callofum. From this time forward the parts went on healing, until they got quite well j but the patient continued to la- bour under a paralyfis of the left fide, which had fupervened the day after he received the blow. It is obvious, from the nature of the fub- ftance of which the tumour is compofed, that flyptic remedies applied to its furface can have fcarcely any elfea in lelTening its bulk, and none at all in putting a hop to its growth; and experience fliews, that the more a6live of them are not only ineffeftual, but highly dangerous. Hildanus, in his Fourteenth VOL. III. F Obf, F66 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAI>. Obf. relates the cafe of a man who died irs confequence of an empiric having dreffed a tumour of this jfcind with alum and calcined vitriol. And Mr. Hill tell us (p. 198), that, after fhaving off the protruding part, he once fprinkled the balls with fome blue vitriol, and another time v/ith red preci- pitate j but found that “ his patient had a very bad day after each of thefe j” no doubt, in confequence of their being dilTolved by the difcharge, and infmuating themfelves between the tumour and the edges of the flcull, fo as to get into contadl with the fenfible parts within; for, that it was not owing to their effedt upon the tumour, is evident from its indolence wlien he had removed it with the knife ® The foregoing cafes explain a particular kind of pro^ trufion, which feems to me to have been frequently de- fcribed by authors, and of which they ferve as fpecimens. Such occurrences cannot be obferved without furprize ^ the fuddennefs of the protrufion fcareely admits the fup- pofition of the protruded part being organized. It was never meant by the recital of thefe cafes to deny, that the furface of the brain, w^en expofcd and irritated would throw out a vafcular fungus j it was only Intended to defcribe a fpecies of thofe appearances wliich had been denominated67 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SECTION IV. ConcuJJio?! of the Brain. A s I am of opinion that the effe6ls of con- cuflion have not been juftly defcribed by authors, and as the fymptoms related by them are not, according to my experience, thofe which ufually occur, I have therefore felefted two cafes out of a great number tliat I have leen, in order to drew what have ap- denominatcd fungus or hernia cerebri. In all the cafes of true fungus cerebri which I had feen when I firft O % wrote the foregoing account, the fungus grew fo flowly that it could not be miftaken or confounded with the appearances which took place in the cafes I have cited. Since that period, I have feen cafes in which the fungus grew much more rapidly, yet none in tliat degree which would make it liable to be confounded with the appear- ances defcribed in the prefent fedlion. The curative indications in the true fungus cerebri feem to be, to diminifli thofe caufes wliich occafion the brain to be thruft upwards againft the bone, and to apply gentle prefTure from without, fo as to give that degree of fupport which the part ought naturally to receive from the dura mater bone. F 2 pearedON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, 68 peared to me the common confequences of this injury; and I lhall afterwards offer fome remarks refpefting the treatment of this affection. CASE XVII. Harriet Silverthorn, aged twenty-three years, flipped down flairs, and flruck her occiput againfl fome of the lower fleps, by which the integuments were divided about half an inch in length, but the wound was not deep, nor were the furrounding parts much bruifed. She was taken up fenfelefs, was bled, and the next morning conveyed to St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital. When brought in, file was fcomatofe; could not be made to anfwer any queflions; yet fhe drew back her arm when pinched, and feemed very uneafy when the wounded parts were prefied upon. Her breathing was without flertor, but per- formed at fome interval, as if flie did not wifh to infpire until obliged by neceffity. The pulfe, which was full and labouring, in- termitted every fourth or fifth flroke.—Eight ounces of blood were immediately taken away, and an opening medicine given, which procuredON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 69 procured three ftools, after which file was ordered a mixture, containing aqua ammonias acetatae, and antimonial wine. — The next day {Friday), 'fhe was rational, put out her tongue when defired, and faid fhe had no pain in her head j her breathing was more regular, and her pulfe free from intermiflion. {Saturday,) flic was ftill more fenfible, and gave fome account of herfelf; complaining now of head-ach, and general uneafinefs. The mixture was continued, the purging medicine given again, and a blifter laid on between her fhoulders. — {Sundayd) her pulfe was harder j fhe was fenfible, but refllefs; complained of pain in her forehead, fat up in bed, and wanted to go home. ' Six or eight ounces of blood were taken from her temples, and the mixture ordered to be continued as before. — {Monday,) fhe was much more compofed j but as die had ftill fome pain in her head, a blifter was applied to it. — (Tuef- day,) fhe had flept quietly during the night, anfwered rationally, but with quicknefs, and eagerly defired to go home. As the blifters appeared to have been ferviceable, that on her neck was renewed.— {Wednefday,) file was7© ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. was perfedly quiet, and in every refpedi: bet- ter ; nor had fhe, after this, any complaint worth mentioning. CASE XVIII. A Frenchman, twenty-feven years of age, who had been many years in England, and (as it afterwards appeared) fpoke our lan- guage perfedtly, had met with fome accident (but in what manner, I know not), in confe- quence of which he was brought to the hof- pital. He was then very comatofe, and ex- prefled much uneafmefs at being roufed from that ftate j yet he put out his tongue when bid, but did not give a rational anfwer to queflions put to him, and his replies were made in his native language. His pulfe was regular, Ifrong, and about 96 in a minute. Ten ounces of blood were taken from his arm; and after being purged, the common faline mixture, with antimonial powder, was ordered to be given. In the night he grew delirious, got out of bed, and tore the ' bandage from his arm; in confequence of wdiich he loft a good deal of blood before it v/as perceived. This, hovv^ever, feemed of ufe to"on injuries of the head. 7* to him ; for he became more tranquil after it, and lay quietly dozing till morning. Next day, he was more rational, and complained of pain in his head. When I told him thtit if he kept quiet, he would foon be well, he faid, he hoped fo; and appeared felicitous to know what fhould be done to him. flis pulfe was only 8o, and not ftrong. A gentle laxative was given, and a blifter applied to his head. — On the third day, he was much more fenfible, fpoke with clearnefs, and mentioned the pain being in the fore-part of his head ; yet, when I alked his age, he told me he was but fixteen years old. — ’Tuefday (fourth day), he appeared more excited and wild; his tongue was dry, but his pulfconly 75. Nine ounces of blood were taken from the temporal artery. — Fifth day, his pulfe was only 70, and perfectly natural; yet he had pulled off the drefling from his blilfers, and feemed to be veiy irritable. — Sixth day, ftill pain in his forehead, pulfe rather quicker, but tongue not furred. After this he gradually reco- vered, without any particular fymptom oc- curring, and without any other medical treatment. F 4 It « ®ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. It is not likely that, in either of thefe cafes, extravafation, at leaft to any confider- able degree, had taken place within the head, lince in neither of them was there ftertor, dilatation of the pupils, or infenfibility. They may, therefore, I,think, be confidered as exhibiting the fymptoms which attend fimple concullion. The foregoing cafes were indeed inftances of but flight concufTion to what the brain fometimes fuffers, and which proves fatal. To difplay the fymptoms which occur in the worfl cafes, I relate the follow- ing inflance. CASE XIX. W. Thomas, about thirty years of age, fell from the top of a brew-houfe, a height of at leaft 8d feet. His hand being ftretched out, firft fuftained the fhock, by which the carpal bones were feparated, and driven upwards, fome before, and others behind the ends of the radius and ulna, the articular furfaces and periofteum being at the fame time forced off the latter bones. I mention thefe parti- culars to fhew the great violence of the fail. ,The man’s head afterwards ftruck the ground, asON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 73 as appeared by a bruife on his face j but the cranium was not injured. When brought to the hofpital, he appeared almoft deprived of life, his body being cold, and his pulfe fcarcely to be felt. The gentlemen then at- tending, put his feet into warm water, and gave him an opiate. After this he gradually became warmer, and it was obferved that there was not much dilatation of the pupils, and but little ftertor in refpiration. I faw the patient next morn- ing, at which time his Ikin was very hot, and he perfpired copioufly. His breathing was repeated at regular intervals, but the expira- tions were made with unufual force. The pulfe was extremely irregular, both in fre- quency and in ftrength; generally about 140 in a minute. His .pupils were moderately contrafted, his eye-brows drawn into a frown as if he fuffered pain. When I fpoke to him foftly, he did not anfwer. I pinched his hand llightly, but he did not move; but when I repeated this a little harder, he drew it away with feeming vexation. He difliked that his eyes fhould be examined. When by p ,1 Ipeaking74 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. fpeaking loud, I roufed him^ and inquired if his head ached, he anfwered. Yes. I got him to fwallow fome opening medicine, which emptied his bowels 5 and four leeches were applied to his temples; but they extracted very little blood, and I thought his pulfe countermanded any further evacuations. In the afternoon, he appeared better. His pulfe was more regular, and his fkin of a more natural temperature; his pupils, how- ever, were more contracted, and his fenfibi- lity increafed. I tried the eifeft of giving him forty drops of tin6t. opii, thinking it might diminifli fenfibility, and keep him quiet for fome time, during which the vafcular fyllem (which feemed to be particularly de- ranged) might perhaps regain its powers. The opiate increafed his difpohtion to deep, ^nd he appeared to fufier lefs pain; but in the evening, his pulfe was more feeble and frequent, and his fldn hotter, and quite wet with perfpiration. Wine was now given to him, but without any apparent benefit; the powers and adlions of life gradually dimi- niflied., ^nd before morning he died. OnON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 75 On difTc6lion, there appeared every mark denoting violent inflammation of the brain and pia mater, of fliort duration. The minute arteries of the pia mater were turgid with blood 3 in many places there was the appear- ance called blood-fhot, which was alfo to be feen in the lining of the ventricles. Dark- coloured, and in fome places, bloody, coagu- lable lymph filled all the recefTes between the tunica arachnoidea and pia mater. On divid- ing the fubftance of the brain, all its vefTcls appeared as if injedled with blood. I am inclined to believe that the medical treatment of this patient did him neither much good nor harm. The means employed feem to have acted on him as on a perfon in health. The opening medicine rendered him cooler, and quieted a little the difturbed adtions of the fyftem. The opiate made him more ftill, and difpofed him to deep. ^ I leave it to practitioners to confider, whe- ther cordials would have been of any fervice in this cafe. Would they not rather, by fti- mulating the nervous fyftem, have increafed the76 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the difturbance of the fenforium, and, by ex- citing the heart and arteries, have tended to aggravate the inflammation of the brain. I add another cafe, becaufe it is remarkable for the violence of the fubfequent inflamma- tory fymptoms. The cafe was attended by Mr. Sheppard of Chew Magna, who was, at the time it happened, drefling pupil to Sir Charles Blicke at St. Bartholomew’s hofpital. To liis judicious and unremitting attention I cannot but attribute in a great degree the iritimate welfare of the patient. The account which I have drawn up, is taken from Mr. Sheppard’s notes. _ CASE XX. David Davis, a robuft man, thirty-five years of age, was admitted into St. Bartho- lomew’s hofpital on the 21ft of November 1799. He had fallen from a confiderable height on his head, and had bruifed and wounded the fcalp, but without fradturing the bone. He was, when brought to the hofpital, fo far infenfible, as not to be affedled by flight imprelTions, and his exre- mitiesON INJURIES 0? THE HEAD. 77 mitles were cold. Plis feet were put into hot water, and, after fome time, he became warm and more fenfible, and the pupils of his eyes contracted as in common. Twelve ounces of blood were taken from tlie tem- poral artery, and a purging medicine given. On the following day, the pulfe being full and hard, fixteen ounces more of blood were taken away, and the purging medicine re- peated, which procured feveral ftools, and a bliller was alfo applied to the nape of the neck. Notwithflanding thefe meafures, how- ever, he became delirious, and his Ikin felt hot, and he complained of pain in his head. Twelve ounces more of blood were therefore taken, and three grains of pulvis antimonialis giveji every fourth hour. November 24. The delirium ftill 'con- tinued, but the patient lay more quiet: bis pulfe was 120, and full, therefore twelve ounces of blood were taken, and as the de- lirium and ftrength of the pulfe ftill con- tinued, in the evening the bleeding was re- peated to the extent of twelve ounces. His bowels were alfo emptied by magnefia vitri- olataON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 78 olata and fenna. Afterwards he had thirty drops of Tindl. Opii given him at night. He flept fome hours in the night, and next morning his pulfe w^as lefs hard, and only 96 in a minute; his anfwers to queftions were alfo much more rational, and delivered in a lefs loud and quick tone of voice than before, For during the greater part of the delirium he had been very unmanageable, rolling about in bed and endeavouring to get up, and fpeaking in a loud and fierce manner. Towards the evening the fymptoms again in- creafedi his pulfe was 120, and harder and fuller than in the morning; his fkin was • hot, and he complained of thirlf. He had taken purging medicine in the morning, which had operated. Three grains of anti- monial powder were now given eveiy fourth hour, and his feet put into warm water, in ' hopes of procuring perfpiration : ten ounces of blood were taken from the temporal artery, and the opiate repeated at night. 25th. The patient had dept during great part of the night; his pulfe 100; he com- plained of cold, though his fkin was hot; and ofON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 5 and of great pain in his head. More ftools were procured, and twelve ounces of blood were taken from the temporal arteiy. He now took fix grains of pulv. ipecac, comp, every four hours. 26th. He had Been delirious during the former part of the night, but had flept to- wards the morning j in other refpedls he was much as before. In the evening, as his pulfe would bear it, twelve ounces of blood were again taken away. 27th. Pulfe fofter and frequent. He had three ftools from medicine in the evening. The delirium feemed to have a little fubfided, and he was much inclined to deep, fo that it was difficult to obtain an anfwer from him. 28th. A blifter was applied to his head, and in the evening his pulfe becoming full, ten ounces of blood were taken from him. T wo grains of opium were given him at night. 29th. He had flept well but complained, of his head, and of difficulty in fwallowing,8o ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. and in the evening had hemiplegia of thfr right fide of his body. 30th. He had flept but little, the bowels lax, the pulfe fmall and frequent, the hemi- plegia continues. We had thus far been endeavouring, by the mod: powerful means, to fubdue a vio- lent inflammation of the brain, and could fcarcely have be faid to have accomplifhed our defign, when a new affe6Hon called for attention. I think it can fcarcely be doubted, that the hemiplegia was the effedt of prefTure made by an effuflon of fluids, in confequence of inflammation, operating probably chiefly . on the left hemifphere of the brain, fo as to paralyze the oppofite fide of the body. Under this perfuafion, and without expedlation of fuccefs, I dire6led that two drachms, by meafure, of ftrong mercurial ointment fhould be rubbed in on his arms and legs night and morning, and that five grains of the pil. hydrarg. with one grain of opium, fhould be given three times a day. Thefe means were continued for three days without any flrik- ingON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 8l ing amendment being perceived, but on the fourth (Dec. 4.) he ftretched out his right arm when required, and he was able to fwallow without difficulty. As he was get- ting better, the fame plan was perfevered in till the 9th, when the mercury had affedted his mouth, and produced a diarrhoea. He now knew all thofc perfons who attended him, and his ftate was furprifingly altered. During the inflammation of the brain he had been very unmanageable, and his replies and expreffions were fierce and loud. Now he was extremely tradlable, and wept whenever he was fpoken to. His pulfe was very feeble, and beat but 90 in a minute. It feems right to mention that a few days after- wards, when he was flowly recovering, one of the wounds of the temporal artery gave way, and he lofl perhaps fourteen ounces of blood before it was perceived. This circum- ftance of courfe made him weaker, and in- creafed the frequency of his pulfe, but it did not much impede his recovery, which, though very flow, was very perfe^f. Extenfive Houghing of the integuments of the nates had taken place, which it does not feem re- voL. III. G quifite82 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. quifite to mention, but inafmuch as it tends to fliew the reduced ftate to which he had been brought. Indeed if this patient had not poffeffed a vigorous conflitution, it feemed fcarcelypoffible that he could have furvivedthe debility which this difeafe and the treatment conjointly produced. The extent of the evacuations, that fur- geons are obliged to make in inflammations of vital organs, is fuch, as would deter the unexperienced from purfuing them, and mufl: aftonifh thofe who have employed them with fuccefs, that they could be borne with fo little apparent injury. It can only be ac- counted for by confldering the difeafe as the ftimulus which keeps up the actions of the conflitution under fuch exhaufting meafures, as would occafion them to fmk but for this excitement. ‘ The opinions, that prevail amongftfurgeons refpefting the treatment of concuflion, are very different. Many late writers advife fti- mulating cordials, fuch as wine, and volatile alkali, to be given j while others purfue a diredlyON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ,83 (Ure6lly oppofite condaft. Nor do they agree in the account of the fymptoms, which they confider as depending on this fpecies of injury. Mod writers reprefenf the fubjedl, as if the deranged date of the brain, which is the immediate confequence of -the fhock, continued to the termination of the patient’s illnefs or of life j while, in the cafes given by Mr. Pott, the fymptoms appear to proceed more from the indammation which enfues, than from the concudion. The whole train of fymptoms following a. concudion of the brain, may, I think, be properly divided into three dages. The JirJi is that date of infenfibility and derange- J ment of the bodily powers, which immediately '• fucceed the accident. While it lads, the pa- tient fcarcely feels any injury that may be in- di6led on him: His breathing is dildcult, but in general without dertor j his pulfe in- termitting, and his extremities cold. But fuch a date cannot lad long; it goes off gra- dually, and is fucceedcd by another, which I confider as the fecond dage of concudion. In. this, the pulfe and refpiration become better, ^ • G 2 and84 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. and though not regularly performed, arc fufficient to maintain life, and to diffufe warmth over the extreme parts of the body. The feeling of the patient is now fo far re- flored, that he is fenfible if his Ikin be pinched; but he lies ftupid, and inattentive to flight external impreflions. As theeffefts of conciiflion diminifh, he becomes capable of replying to queflions put to him in a loud tone of voice, efpecially when they refer to his chief fuffering at the time, as pain in the head, &c.; otherwife, he anfwers incohe- .rently, and as if his attention could not be excited, or was occupied by fomething elfe 5 he is, in fliort, like a man in a heavy deep. The concufiion of the brain, laftly, produces a date of inflammation of the organ, and this confiitutes the third flage, which is the mod important of the feries of effe6ls pro- ceeding from this caufe. I Thefe feveral dages vary confiderably in their degree and duration ; but more or lefs of each will be found to take place in every indance where the brain has been violently diaken. Whether they bear any certain pro- portionON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 8^': portion to each other or not, I do not know. Indeed this will depend upon fuch a variety of circumftances in the cpnftitution, the in- juiy, and the after-treatment, that it muft he difficult to determine. With regard to thetreatment of concuffion, it would appear, that in the firft ftage very little can be done. From a loofe, and, I •think, a fallacious analogy between the infen- fibllity in fainting, and that which occurs in concuffion, the more powerful ftimulants, fuch as wine, brandy, and volatile alkali, are commonly had recourfe to, as foon as the patient can be made to fwallow. The fame reafoning which led to the employment of thcfe remedies in the firft ftage, in order to recall fenfibility, has given a kind of fandtion to their repetition in the fecond, with a view to continue and increafe it. But here the pradrice becomes more evidently pernicious. The circumftance of the brain having fo far recovered . its powers, as to carry on the animal fundtions in a degree fufficient to maintain life, is G 3 furely8(T ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 6 If furely a ftrong argument that it will con- tinue to do fo, without the aid of fuch means; which tend to exhauft parts already weakened, by the violent adlion they induce. It feems probable that thefe ftimulatlng liquors will aggravate that inflammation which mufl: enfue fooner or later. The accefs of it, in the cafes which^ I have related, is fufficiently evident; and its cure is to be effedled by the common methods. The great benefit of evacuations was, in thofe cafes,, very evident. Indeed, it appears to me, that there is no complaint which requires fuch means to be more rigorcufly 'profecuted, than an inflammation of the brain or its membranes. ’ In addition to the reafoning which I have offered here, I would obferve, that furgical books abound with cafes in which fuitable evacuations have been freely employed in concufTion, with the heft effects; while the advocates for a contrary practice have refted their arguments upon vague theory, and communicate no particulars of their fuccefs.ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 8/ * If the foregoing Ccifes exhibit the genuine marks of concuflion, the adminiftration of cordial medicines, which has been fo much recommended, appears to be very ill adapted to the relief of fuch an injury. I have feen fo many additional cafes of concuflion, fo exadlly correfponding to thofe formerly related, that I am more fully fatif-' fied of the truth of the reprefentation which has been given of them. I have in confe- quence been led more and more to wonder, that a contrary plan of treatment to that which has been fo uniformly fuccefsful, could ever have been recommended, and to conjedlure what cafes could have occurred, in which fuch oppolite pra6lice mufl; not have been flirikingly prejirdicial. Probably I may point out fuch cafes j and as I do not find them defcribed in books of furgery, be- caufe they have not been deemed fufficiently important, it may not be improper briefly to mention them. A young lady was {looping in a clofet, and rifing up fuddenly and forcibly flie {truck her G 4 head88 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. head againft a flielf. The blow occafioned extreme pain, but did not ftun her. She went down ftairs without mentioning the accident, and after fitting with her friends for a fhort time ft-ie fainted. As it was in the evening flie went to bed, but could not deep for pain in her head, and the next day her pulfe was very languid, and her extre^ mities cold j flie complained of great pain when the fcalp was flightly touched, and faid there was a fenfation as if cold water was dropping on it. She took fome gentle open- ing medicine, which relieved thefe fymptoms, but fhe could not fit up for many days, and it was a confiderable time before flie recovered from the languor, which the blow had occa- lioned : but neither fever, nor failure of fen- fation, or of intelle6f, took place in the flighted: degree. I have feen many fimilar cafes, and in one the patient faid his fenfations were fuch as would induce him to believe that his brain was loofe, and moving on the infide of the flcull. All thefe cafes were relieved by flight evacuations, as gently open- ing medicines, leeches, or cupping, though I am inclined to believe that a contrary plan of^ ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 89 of treatment, which has been recommended in concuflion, might have been purfued with- out material detriment. Cafes of this de- feription are to be confidered as arifing from nervous fymptoms, attendant upon flight injuries, rather than as effefls of ferious con- cuffion. Mr. Pott, in fpeaking of concuf- fion, fays, that he never knew patients re- cover from the immediate confequenees of it, without an imperfection in fome fenfe, or part of the body, remaining. The refult of my own experienee has been very different; and yet I am ready to believe that fuch events may not unfrequently take place, as I know from examination, that the fubftance of the brain is fometimes lacerated and diforganized in violent concuflions. I have, however, examined other cafes of fatal ccncuffions, without obferving any fuch Icfion of the fubftance of the brain. It has hitherto teen confidered as a defir- able object, to point out any marks by which we might diftinguifli. between compreffion and concufTion of the brain; but I believe no9© ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. no fuch ciiteria^ have yet been commu- nicated to the public. If we judge of the fymptoms of comprefTion from what occurs in cafes of apoplexy, or from cafes like thofe which have been related of the rupture of the middle artery of the dura mater, (in one of which cafes it was evident, that concuffions had no fliare in producing the fymptoms,) wc muft, I think, be of opinion, that prelTure on the brain occafions infenfibility partially, or generally, and in a degree proportionate to its quantity. In extreme cafes, fuch as I have cited, the in- fenfibility is manifefted by every circumftance. The pupil of the eye is dilated, and cannot f be made to contra61; even by, a ftrong light. The refpiration is flow and ftertorous, and the pulfe proportionately flow and labour- ing. There is no vomiting, which would indeed indicate fenfibility of ftomach. The limbs are relaxed, as in a perfon juft dead. No flruggles take place, nor figns of fenfa- tion appear during the operation; but on the preflTure being removed, fenfation and intelligence are immediately reflored. InON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 9I In concuffion, the infenfible ftate is of fhort duration, and during its continuance the body is generally cold, and the pulfe feeble and intermitting. Afterwards the fkin is hotter than ufual, the pulfe and refpi- ration more frequent; the former often inter- mits, and the latter has not the ftertor of apoplexy.The pupil of the eye is not * dilated, but rather‘contradled. The coun- tenance exprelTes pain or uneafmefsj and vomiting occafionally takes place. The ftate of the patient is like that of a heavy and uncomfortable deep; yet, being roufed, figns, even of intelligence, appear. In fradlures of the bafis of the fkull, how- ever, it muft be acknowledged, that the fymptoms are often deceptive. In general the fymptoms refemble thofe of concuffion, yet fometimes a degree of infenfibility * But the abfence of ftertor muft not be relied on as a proof that there is no comprefhon; for Morgagni relates dilTecftions of apople«fHc perfons, where the effuGon was confiderable, yet no ftertor had occurred ^ aud I have feen cafes where it took place only in a very flight degree. may9^ ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. may be obferved like that produced by prefTure, when no preffure has really taken place. I cannot better reprelent to the reader what I conceive of the value of the diftinc- tions which I have made, between the fymp- toms of compreffion and concuffion of the brain, in ordinary cafes, than by relating briefly fome of the particulars of a cafe fent me by Mr. Davies, furgeon of Tetbury, who was formerly an induftrious and intelligent fludent at St. Bartholomew’s hofpital. The cafe alfo, in my opinion, deferves to be re- corded for* other reafons, which I (hall after- wards mention. A young woman was knocked down by a blow on her head, and the place where the blow had been received was denoted by a foft fwelling of the fcalp. She lay in a ftate of apoplexy, and appeared like a corpfe. The pupils of her eyes could not be made to con- tra6l by the approach of a ftrong light j her olfaftoiy nerves were unaffected by the mofl: pungent odour; her ears were equally infen- fible to found j flie manifefted no uneafmefs uponON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 95 5 aperture upon being fliarply pinched j her pulfe was fmall and intermitting, and her breathing fcarcely perceptible j and a cold and clammy moifture covered her Ikin. Mr. Davies immediately divided the fcalp, and finding' the bone fra6lured, he trephined it. There was no blood upon the dura mater, but that membrane was thruft up into the aperture made by the trephine. The dura mater being divided, about five ounces of blood was fuddenly difcharged, and the patient rofe up in bed, as if waking with affright. Her pulfe and refpiration were foon relieved, and became natural. A plan of treatment calculated to prevent and fub- due inflammation was ftridUy purfued, and the patient did well without any remarkable occurrence taking place. From what'has been already faid it may be inferred, that I do not confider the divifion of the dura mater as a flight evil. It is, doubtlefs, the duty of a furgcon, when he has been urged to trephine, on account of ftrong fymptoms of preffure, to divide that membrane, if it be thrufi: upwards into the94 ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. aperture which he has made. I have faid that frequently the blood is coagulated, or fo thickly grumous, that the whole of it can- not be difcharged. In the prefent cafe, how- ever, the promptitude of the furgeon’s con- du6l enabled him happily to difcharge the effufed blood whilft it remained fluid. / f y95 ON INJURIES OF THE fl2AD. SECTION V. Injlammation of the Pia Mater The inflammation of the dura mater, which occafionally fucceeds to injuries of the head, has been well defcribed by Mr. Pott. ^ Patients labouring under this complaint are feverifli, have a conftriftive pain in the head, but continue rational, and* give a clear ac- count of their fymptoms, until matter forms, or inflammation of the internal parts enlues. This is what we might naturally expecf from the ftruflure of the dura mater, the manner in which it is fupplied with blood, and its veflels having little conncdlion with the brain. When the pia mater becomes in- * In the former edition, I related in this fc£tion cafes of inflammation of the pia mater, in which this difeafe occurred diftindlly, and terminated fatally, in order to authenticate the fpecific fymptoms-attendant on it. As many of the foregoing cafes, however, are inltances of tins difeafe coming on after concuflion or fra£l:ure, and yet occurring as a diflinfi; difeafe, and uncombined with fymptoms arifing from the peculiar nature of the injury, I tliink a further narrative of cafes fuperfluous. flamed,'$6 ON ?njT?ries of the head. flamed, as the brain derives a confiderablc portion of its blood through the vefTels of that membrane, the difeafe is inftantly com- municated to the cerebrum, and deranges its fun6lions. This derangement varies in' its nature and degree, accordingly as the in- flammation of the pia mater is more or lefs violent; as it is confined to the furface, or extends to the internal parts; as it produces a greater or fmaller fecretion of fluid which comprefTes the brain j or as it is more or lefs blended with the effefls of concuflion. The ftate of the patient will vary conflderably un- der thefe different circumfliances. If the in- fiammation be violent and general, the patient will be irrational and difturbed, having his mind ftrongly affefted by wrong ideas, and endcavoifring to a6l in confequence of them. If the inflammation be moderate, and affe6t the furface only, he will be irrational, iin- eafy, reftlefs, and perhaps endeavour to get out of bed, but without the violence of mania. Should a moderate inflammation be blended with the effe6ls of concuflion, he will have lefs appearance of irrationality, will lie pretty quiet, and inattentive to flight impreffions, as appearedON INJURIES Ot THE HEAD. 97 appeared in fome of the cafes related.—J am not able to particularize every variety that may occur in the fymptoms j but in all, there muft be more or lefs derangement of the powers, both mental and corporeal, depend- ing upon the degree of inflammation, 6cc.* — The fymptoms, which chiefly characterize the complaint, are thofe of an increafe of fenflbility; the pupils of the eyes are con- tracted ; the patient often withdraws his ' arm on being touched, and his pulfe and tongue denote general as well as local inflam- mation. It feems of the utmofl: importance, that thofe means which in general cure in- flammation, fhould be profecuted very vigo- roufly at the commencement of this com- plaint j fince otherwife, although they may check, they will not overcome it. Large blood-lettings, brifk purging, and extenfnc counter irritation by bliflers, ought to be * An unufual infirmity of the bodily powers is fome- times obferved, accompanied with tremors, low delirium, and exceedingly rapid pulfe; yet, on dilTc£Hon, a flight ^inflammatory appearance of the pia mater and brain is all that can be difcovered. Such a ftate fometimes occurs after an abfcefs has formed in the brain. VOL. III. H employed98 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. In employed at the very commencement; for^ if omitted, the difeafe will then become efta- blilhed, and the powers of the body will foon be too much funk to admit of the fame active treatment at a later period. I have here reprefented the general effects of inflammation of the pia mater when it arifes from external violence. ^'In other cafes, indeed, where it comes on, as it were, fpontaneoufly, or without any powerfully exciting caufe (in which cafe it generally falls under the care of the phyfician), it has ap- peared to havq affe6fed the brain but little, and to have been very flow in its progrefs, and ina6five in its nature. In fuch cafes it has produced a depofition between the tunica arachnoidea and the pia mater, or a collec- tion of ferum between the former membrane and the dura mater. Under thefe circum- ftances, I have learned that the rationality of the patient has been fcarcely deranged. And as fuch a ftate of difeafe may occur after an accident, I have thought it right to men- tion it in this place.ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. P9 - In the generality of cafes of injury done to the head, the fymptoms of concufTion, oompreflion, and inflammation are fo com- bined as to appear inexplicable. It is only by an attention to thofe rare cafes, in which the fymptoms of each appear diflin6lly, that we are likely to increafc our knowledge of their fpecific eflc61:s., i conclude this review of the effeff of injuries done to the head, by obferving, that whatever may be the nature of the injury which the brain may have fuf- tained, ftill the diforder induced in that organ muft produee a proportionate diforder in the funclions of the digeflive organs, and the re-, aftion of the latter atfe6lion mufl: aggravate the former. Some remarks on this fubjeff are in- ferred in the lirfl: volume of thefe obfervations. To corroborate further the ftatement there given, and to bring this fubjecl before the reader’s mind on the prefent occafion, I relate the following cafe, which occurred about two years ago. CASE XXL A young gentleman received a fevere wound on the forehead, which laid bare the s. H 2 bone.ICO OH INJURIES OF THE HEAD. bone, and ftunned him. By ven<efe6lion and the ufual treatment, the immediate ill confequences of the injury were mitigated and fubdued j fo that the wound healed, and he was confidered to be convalefcent. He was not, however, well; he had ftrange nervous feel- ings about his headj and after three months he became very much difordered. Calling at a friend’s houfe, he difcourfed wildly, and became fo delirious, that they were obliged to confine him in bed by means of a ifrait waiftcoat. Ten ounces of blood were taken from him, and I was defired to vifit him. His pulfe beat more than loo in a minute; his fkin was hot and dry; his tongue was furred, but it could not be diftindlly feen j he fhewed no figns of underfiianding to any queftions that were put to him; he rolled his head about; and breathed altogether by means of the ribs, without moving the dia- phragm. When I prefied even fiightly be- neath the enfiform cartilage, he feemed to fuffer greatly, and became fiightly convulfed. The blood which had been taken from the arm did not indicate inflammation, and I was therefore induced to cbnfider the fymp- tomsV H 3 evacu- MHD'OA,- SOHQ0L. ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. lOI toms as arifing from nervous irritation, caufed, or aggravated, by diforder of the digeftive organs. As it was impoffible to get the patient to fwallow, we formed two grains of calomel and lo of jalap into an eledluary, by means of a little honey, and befmeared the back part of the tongue with it. The fame medicine was repeated after fix hours. The fecond dofe produced two copious difcharges from the bowels, after which his head was fo much relieved, that when I called on him the following morning, he was perfeflly rational, and his pulfe was tranquil. I then queftioned him particularly refpefting the kind of pain in his head ; and, he told me, that it was not fevere, nor ac- companied with throbbing; that it was con- fined to the part which had been wounded, and it was conftant. As the purgative medi- cines had not begun to operate till towards the morning, I thought that their effedls might continue, and therefore only advifed, that he fhould take faline draughts in a ftate of effervefcence, during the day; and food of an unftimulating quality. No more102 ON INJURIES OF THE HEA0. evacnation-s however took place from the bowels, and in the afternoon the patient again became delirious, fo that when I faw liim in the evening he did not feem to under- ftand any thing that was faid to him. He lay, however, much more quietly than he had done on the preceding evening, only occa- fionally moving his^ head to one fide or the othei*, and then feeming as if he was looking for fome objedf by the fide of the bed. The jalap was now again given him, with the addition of one grain of calomel. The me- dicine operated twice in tire night, and next morning he was again perfe6lly rational. We now infured the continuance of difcharges from the bowels, by dirediiing him to take fome common purging mixtures, if his bowels did not a6l in fix hours. The delirium did not return, and the patient foon became as well as he had ever been hnce the accident. Yet ftill his digeflive organs were not in a healthy date. His tongue was much furred j his bowels either coftive or purged, and gene- rally in the latterftatcj and the fecretionof bile was either deficient in quantity, or faulty inON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 103 in quality. He remained in this way for many months, though various kinds of me- dicines were given for his relief. At laft a fpontaneous diarrhoea occurred, and as I was informed by his phyfician, his bowels afterwards regained their natural tranquillity and fundtions.ON INJURIES OF THE HEArEN 16-4 7 SECTION VI. Cafes cf Difeafe of the Bone a?id Dura Mater^ difeafes of the cranium, and confe- quent affedtions of the dura mater, have been well deferibed by fome French and Ger- man furgeons*. But as they have not, I believe, been explained by Englilli writers,. I fliall confirm the accounts which we have received of them by additional cafes 5 and afterwards fliall offer fome remarks on this fubjedt. CASE XXII. A man, between thirty and forty years of age, was falivated for complaints in his head, luppofed to be venereal. There were two tumours of the fcalp j one a little before the coronal future, and the other a little above the pofterior fuperior angle of the left parietal bone. The man’s health was greatly reduced by the courfe of medicine he had undergone, \ * Vide Monf. Louis’’Memoire, in the fifth volume of the Mem. de I’Acad. de Chirurgie, and Haller^s Difputa- tiones Chirurgicse. asON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. I05 as well as by the difeafe, which had confider- ably increafed during the ufe of mercury. The integuments covering the pofterior tu- mour had ulcerated j and a probe could be paffed under them, fo as to difcover a cpnfi- derable extent of bare and carious bone. The furgeon, under whofe care he was admitted into the hofpital, divided the integuments, and perforated the difeafed bone, which was found feparated from the dura mater. That membrane alfo had a very morbid appearance, being covered with a foft fubftance of a dirty reddifh colour. On prelling down the dura mater with a probe, to fee if it was detached to any extent, nearly a table-fpoonful of healthy pus iffued from beneath the bone, about an inch behind the part perforated. The furgeon thought this might be fufficient to relieve, and therefore deferred making another perforation. But the man, who had lain ftupid, though not irrational, and had fubfultus tendinum accompanied with great debility, grew fliortly after delirious; in which ftate he continued about two days, when he became convulfed, and died. Onlo6 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, On diffeftion, purulent matter was found on the dura mater, beneath both the carious ' portions of bone. The membrane alfo, which was detached, was much thickened, fo as in fome degree to indent the furface of the brain. The pia mater was generally in- flamed ; and a larger quantity of fluid than ufual was found in the ventricles. CASE XXIII. An old man was admitted into the hofpital for a complaint of giddinefs and pain in his head. Upon examination, a tumour was perceived over the left parietal bone, into which an incilion was made, and a good deal of matter difcharged. The pericranium was found to be detached for three inches in length, and two in breadth. In the middle of the bare bone, which feemed to be dead, and really was fo, granulations of a healthy appearance had fprouted out. Thefe arofe from the dura mater, and had made their way through the bone. The patient’s health, which was moderately good at the time of his admiflion into the hofpital, gradually de- clined i and, after about fix weeks, the pain^ ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. in his head became particularly fevere. From this time he became gradually comatofe, took no food, and foon died. On dilTeaion,'the dura mater, beneath the carious bone, was found detached, and had granulated. Much pus lay between the left hemifphere of the brain and the falx; and the whole of the dura mater covering the right hemifphere was lined with healtliy pus, which adhered to its furface, and ap- peared to have been fecreted by that mem- brane. The cafes of difeafed bone, which require perforation of the cranium, have not been fufficiently treated of by any Englifli writer. Mr. Pott has, indeed, noticed the difeafe and death of portions of the Ikull, that fucceed to contuiions; but he has not fufficiently explained the affedtions of the membranes of the brain, which even thefe difeafes fome- times occafion. The circumftance, which feems particularly to have attradled his atten- tion, is the inflammation and fuppuration in the diploe, which proceed from injury donelo5 ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD, done to the bone. The exiftence of that complaint, however, is eafily known; for while there is a fixed pain in that part of the bone, there is no general inflammation, or but very little, of the dura mater. The dif- eafe continues, too, a much longer time without producing any ferioufly bad fymp- toms, than any diforder of the internal parts could do. When matter is formed in the diploe, the pericranium will certainly feparate from the bone, and the external table of the Ikull will undoubtedly perifli. In a cafe lb clearly marked, the conduct to be purfued is obvious, which is, to remove a portion of the external table with the tre- phine, fo as to difcharge the matter colledted in the diploe, without which no relief can be obtained. I have feen, in feveral cafes where the operation was performed early, that the external table came away within the circle of the trephine, the matter was dif- charged from the medullary part of the bone, and the internal table remained found and entire, covering the dura mater. Granula- tions foon arofe, and the patients got well, with the exfoliation only of a portion of the outer•V ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. I09 outer table. The mifchievous confequences of delaying the operation, when once the dif- eafe is known, muft be evident 3 for the matter colledted within the bone, having no natural outlet, will prefs on every fide, firft gradually deftroying the diploe, fometimes extending itfelf over almofl the whole of the cranium, and at laft occalioning the partial abforption of both tables, fo that the Ikull after death fliall be found perforated with a number of holes, like a piece of worm-eaten wood. Thefe holes afford a difeharge to the matter, which not only oozes out be- neath the pericranium, but alfo infinuates itfelf between the fkuli and dura mater; till at length the patient finks, worn out by the irritation and fever which this painful and extenfive difeafe creates; unlefs, as it fometimes happens, he is previoufly deftroyed by inflammation attacking the membranes of the brain. Suppuration of the diploe, and the death of a portion of the bone, are the common effedts of injury done to tlie cranium j and fuch a morbid ftate may indeed occur at fome diftance *no ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. diftance of time from the receipt of the in- jury. But the difeafe, which the cafes reprc- fent, generally arifes without an obvious caufe. An affedlion of the dura mater is almoft the neceflary confequence of fuch a difeafe in the bone. In fyphilis it probably takes place later than in any other inftance; for that diforder attacks the outfide of the llcull, which it gradually deftroys j the inner table and the dura mater remain found till the laid. But when, as in the complaint I am now confidering, the whole bone is in- volved in difeafe, we can no more expeft that the dura mater Biould remain unaffedled within, than that the pericranium fliould con- tinue found and attached without; for that membrane may be regarded as the periofteum to the internal table of the fkull. It is well known that, in general, the dura mater fepa- rates, and becomes thickened from a depofi- tion and fubfequent organization of coagu- lable lymph between its layers. This thicken- ing is fometimes confiderable, fo as to form a tumour which caufes an indentation in the cerebrumj as happened in a very remarkable degree in the cafe of the Sieur le Gallois, 8 relatedON INJURIES O? THE HEAD. Ill related by M. Louis*. Sometimes the dura mater fecretes pus, which being confined with- in the cranium, produces inflammation of the brain, &c. At others, granulations arife from the irritated membrane, and, making their way through the bone, form thofe tumours fo well defer!bed in the Memoir juft referred to. This took place in one of the cafes I have related ; and is a remarkable in- ftance of the power which granulation s_ poffefs of removing bone. The difeafe, however, does not confine itfelf to the part firft attacked; for if the irritated ftate of the dura mater be not appeafed, thickenings will take place in other parts of that membrane; or the inflam- mation becoming more extended, fuppuration may be produced even over the oppofite hemifphere of the. brain, as happened in both the cafes which I have related. I do not mean to fay, that in every cafe of difeafed cranium, even where both tables of the fkull are equally afFeifed, the perforation * See Mem. de I’Acad. de Chirurg. tom. v. It alfo took place more llightly i|||pne of the cafes which I have related. of13 2 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, of the bone is indifpenfably required. I know it often happens that the bone exfo- liates, witliout any bad effects having been produced. But furely no furgeon, who perceives the danger of delay, would hefitate to remove all the dead portion of bone, if fymptoms denoting general irritation of the dura mater take place. The beft event that can be ex- pedled, is, that the bone will at length exfoliate without much pain to the patient, or injury to his conftitution. By removing the dead bone, and giving an early and free difcharge to any matter colledted beneath it, the irritation which it occalioned will be taken away, the difeafed ftate of the dura mater will gradually fubfide, and healthy granulations arife from its furface; nor will any further difeafe occur in other parts of that membrane. M. Louis tells us, at the con- clufion of the Memoir already quoted, in what manner experience had taught him to treat fungi of the dura mater; He fays that “ the whole of the tumour fhould be expofed, “ which cannot happen till|(he bony circle whichON INJURIES or THE H£AD. U3 which conceals its bafis, is removed j and “ that afterwards means (hould be employed ** to dcflroy the flefliy excrefcence Al- though the deftrndion of the fungus might be ]>roj)er for the fake of exj>edition, and although it can j>erhaps be attended with no harm, hy wliatever means effected j yet it may not be neceffary. Like other animal fungi, it will j)robably ceafc to grow, and foon difappear, when the irritation which occafioned it has been removed. In cafes of tumours rifing from within the fkull, it is of confequence to determine from what )>art tliey j)r<x:eed. In general, they will be found to fpring from the dura mater, and to be the effect of difeafe in that mem- brane, induced and kept up by irritation. Surgeons liave endeavoured either to reduce them by cauftic; to reftrain them by pref- • T}i€ excellej)t effeO;8 of fuch bold but judicious prac- tic« are well Ihewfi in a cafe related in tlie ytli Paper of Haller's Difputatiojies Cliirurgicae, vol. i. in which a piece of difeafed bone, fix inches and a lialf in circum- ference, was removed. VOL. III. i I furejSI4 ON INJURIES or THE HEAD. fure; or to take them off by a ligatufe or the knife; and the excrefcences have either ceafed or continued to grow, according as the irri- tation which gave rife to them has been re- moved or not. If the former happened, the furgeon has fometimes attributed undeferved merit to the means he had employed for the cure. Thofe tumours which come from within the dura mater, may poffibly differ in their kind in different difeafesj and of thefe I have fpoken in a former part of this Effay. What I have written muff appear very de- fedfive, if it be confidered as regarding the effedls of injuries of the head in general. But my intention has been only to endeavour to illuftrate particular points of pra6lice, by a relation of cafes feledfed from a confider- able number of each kind. I fhall next relate a cafe, in which, though the brain was not the immediate fubjedt of the injury, yet it became affefted in confe- qiienceON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. IIJ quence of it, and I think the cafe deferves to be recorded, not only on account of fcveral ufeful fa6ls and hints relative to pradfice which it affords, but alfo because it may eventually tend to throw light on the eco- nomy and difeafes of the brain. 0 CASE xxrv. A man was gored in the neck by a cowJ The horn entered by the left fide of the cri- coid cartilage, and penetrated as far as the vertebrae; it then paffed upwards on the bodies of thofe bones, nearly as high as the bottom of the fkull; afterwards it came out behind the angle of the jaw, expofing, and in fome degree injuring the parotid gland in its paflagc, and lacerating the fkin of the face as high as the middle of the ear. In its courfe it had paffed beneath, and torn the internal carotid arteiy, and all the primary branches in front of the external carotid artery. The former veffel was not, however, entirely rent afundcr, fo that the general courfe of the artery, and its connexion with the cra- nium remained in the ufual flrate. Notwith- ftamiing the fize of the veffels which had I z beenIl6 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. been torn, they did not immediately bleed j the wound was therefore clofed and bound up. The blood w^as foon obferved to flow in flreams down the neck, nor could any general prefllire upon the wound prevent hemorrhage. In this ftate the man was conveyed to St. Bartholomew’s hofpital, but he had loft a large quantity of blood before his arrival. The patient was laid upon a bed, and be- fore the wound was opened, one of the ftudents firmly comprefled the trunk of the carotid artery againft the lower cervical ver- tebrae. We found upon the firft infpedlion of the wound, that' this preflure prevented any hemorrhage; yet upon the occaficnal motions of the patient, and upon accidental variations in the prefllire made on the veflel, the blood guflied from the bottom of the wound fo fuddenly, and in fuch quantities, as to prevent any accurate examination. The man was very unquiet j he complained much of the prefllire, and was greatly diftrefled by a fenfation of fuffocation, which compelled him conftantly to attempt to expedtorate. Under thefeON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. II7 ♦ thefe circumftances our firft endeavours were to tie the more fuperficial arteries; but the edges of the v/ound being lacerated, the firft ligatures which we endeavoured to make tore away portions of the flefli, and did not fecure the veflels. The fituation of the patient became every moment more defperate, he really feemed choking, his extremities became cold, and his pulfe was fcajxely to be felt: his ftruggles alfo, which could not be controlled, made the prefllire on the trunk of the artery very pre- carious. It was deented neceflary to enlarge the wound to get at the trunk of the carotid artery, and an incifion was made between that veflel and the trachea, in a diredlion parallel to each of thefe parts. I had now the power of pafiing my finger beneath the trunk of the carotid artery; and of effedlually comprefiing it between that finger and my thumb, which was placed oppofite to it, up6n the integuments of the neck, f I had now leifure to examine the wound with my other hand, and felt that the pharynx I 3 hadJ l8 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAO. had been feparated from the vertebrae of tha neck, and had fallen againlb the larynx: the irritation of the-latter organ was probably the caufe of the fenfation of fuftocation which the patient fuffered. There did not appear any reafon to believe that the pharynx was wounded ; for though, the patient was con- ftantly fpitting, the mucus was not mixed with blood. Finding that the moment I re- mitted the prelTure of the carotid, the blood gufhed out from fo many orifices, and in fuch a torrent from the bottom of the wound, I refolved to pafs a ligature round the trunk of the carotid at the part where I had been compreffing it, and which was about an inch below its divifion. This ligature I ,thought might be made to ferve as the tourniquet in amputation, for I could with it comprefs'the artery fo as to prevent the wounded parts becoming obfcured by blood, and by flacken- ing it I might gain information with regard to the fituation of the ruptured veffels, Should it become neceffary at any time to tie the carotid artery, am convinced that it ]|:nay be done without much difficulty or dan-ON INJURIES OF tHE HEAD. II9 ger, even without an accurate difTeftion of the part. If the incifion be made on that fide of the artery which is next the trachea, where no important parts can be injured, as was done in the prefent inftance, the finger can then be pafled behind the artery fo as to comprefs it. The veffel being fufficiently bulky and firm, to make its form and outline diftindlly perceptible, a needle may then be pafied behind the arteiy, as near as poflible to that edge of it which is next to the in- ternal jugular vein; there can be little rilk of wounding that veffel, or of including in the ligature the 8th pair of nerves which lies between them. In attempting to fecure the carotid artery, I paffed behind it in the man- ner deferibed, a blunt hook with an eye in the point, and having previoufly introduced a ligature into it, I drew back the inftruraent and thus cnclofed the artery. When I compreffed the veffel by tighten- ing the knot of the ligature, I did it llowly, ’ and with a watchful attention to the fuffer- ings of the patient; for I cannot but fuppofe that had the nerve of the 8 th pair been in- j 4 cludedj120 ON INJURrtS OF THE HEAD. eluded, his complaints would have fufficiently denoted that circumftance. But the com- preflion of the ligature did not feem to make the 'lead: difference in the general date of the patient, whilff it completely prevented the further effufion of blood. With a knife and differing forceps I then expofed the lacerated veffels, and found that the primary branches of the external carotid artery had been torn oft from the trunk. By drawing upwards the ligature which encircled the trunk of the artery, I made the internal carotid tenfe, fo that its courfe and ruptured date could be didindtly felt. The ligature on the trunk was dackened, and the gufh of blood further confirmed the laceration of the internal carotid artery. I had now the alternative of fecuring the ligature, which I had already made on the trunk of the vedel, or of tying the branches feparately. I preferred the for- mer, and it fhould be obferved, that the man had now lain ten minutes or more, without any blood being carried to the brain by the left carotid j and during, that period he had recovered from his extreme famtnefs, ap- peared perfedUy fenfible, and as well as could 13. be /ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. I2X "be expected, confidering that the perfon had loft fo large a quantity of blood. The ligature being now made fecure, the wound was brought together by ftripes of plaifter; and in this date warm milk was given to the patient to drink, in order to learn what would be the effeft of his efforts to fwallow, and to afcertain as far as pofTible, whether there was any wound in the pharynx or oefophagus. The patient fwallowed about a quarter of a pint of this fluid with difficulty, and with the frequent excitement of coughing. No milk however came through the wound, and I concluded that all the difficulty of degluti- tion arofe from the unnatural ftate in which the mufcles of the pharynx were placed, in confequence of their detachment from the vertebrae. Thefe circumftances happened be- tween 4 and 5 o’clock in the afternoon, and when I faw the patient again between 9 and 10, his date feemed greatly amended. He had feveral times taken warm milk, and the difficulty of deglutition had abated. His pulfe was now moderately full and flrong, and not very frequent. It therefore appeared, that the apparently dying ftate of the man, * which122 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. which at one time had alarmed us, proceeded rather from the fudden. difcharge of blood, than from the quantity, however conliderable, which had been loft. The patient alfo ap- peared tranquil, and perfedtly rational, and though prevented from fpeaking much, he exprefled himfelf fatisfied in this fttuation. On the whole I was led to form a favour- able expedfation of the progrcfs of the cafe, as far as related to the effedfs which a liga- ture on one carotid would have on the economy of the brain. I was next morning mortified to learn, that the patient had been unquiet and feverifh during the night, that he had become delirious, that he had been feveral times affedled by flight convulfions, which had increafed j and that when liquids were now given to him, they palled through the wound, and he could fcarcely fwallow any thing. The pulfe of the patient was now about 130 in a minute, and hard, and his Ikin was hot. He lay inattentive to external objedls, but probably not infenfible, for the pupils of his eyes were contradfed, and when the lids were opened in order to examine them,123 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, them, he fliut them quickly, and as it were, impatiently. It had been remarked, that the left fide of the body was more convulfed than the right. As we had it not in our power eafily to give medicine, I introduced a fmall hollow bougie through the right noftril into the oefophagus, and immediately inje6fed half a pint of milk and water, and 60 drops of tinclure of opium j that I might learn the effefts of that medicine under the prefent circumlfances. The patient fliortly after broke out into a moft profufe fweat, and the convulfions were quieted by the opium. The convullions, when thus mitigated by opium, might be deferibed as violent tremors of the left fide of his body, but the right fide re- mained motionlefs; to which curious fadf I particularly attended, I placed his right arm acrofs his breaft, from which fituation it did not afterwards ftir. I could not, however, perceive any diftortion of the face to the. oppofite fide, and the pupils of both eyes were equally contradled. When I faw the fweat124 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. fvveat break out on the taking of opium, and the nervous irritation diminifh by its ope- ration, I was then more forcibly ftruck than J had been before with the fimilarity of this patient’s fituation, to that of a perfon furfering from the effedls of concuffion of the brain, fome time after the accident, when the in-r flammation often fucceeding to it had begun to take place. I even queftioned if it might not be right to take blood from the temporal artery, which was feen beating violently.. I thought, how- ever, the general opinion would be againft fuch practice, and I only applied a blifter to the head. Twenty drops. of tindlure of opium were directed to be given to the pa- tient every third or fourth hour, with a view to mitigate the convulfions, which it appeared to do. Milk and water was alfo occalionally given, in proportion to the degree of per- ipiration. No remarkable change of fymp- toms took place, but the ftrength of the pulfe gradually declined, and at lo o’clock at night he had a fevere convulfion fit, and imm.e-?ON INJURIES- OF THE HEAD. I25 immediately after died. His death happened about thirty hours after the ligature had been made on the carotid artery. The body was examined on the following day. The brain appeared to have fuffered a confiderable degree of inflammation. The veflels of the pia mater appeared as if they , were injedled, and in many places upon the furface of the convolutions of the cerebrum, there even feemed an efPuflon of blood pro- ducing that appearance ufually termed blood- Ihot. There was- a very confiderable depo- lition of gelatinous fubftance between the tunica arachnoidea, and the pia mater. The veflels pafllng through the fubftance of the brain, though fuller than common, were not particularly turgid. A confiderable quantity of water of a light brown colour, and flightly turbid appearance, was found in the ventricles, whilft the firmnefs of the fides of thofe cavities fufhciently indicated that the colledtion had not preceded the accident. On examining the neck, the carotid artery was found to be the only part included in ' the ligature. The fuperior thyroideal, lin- gualn6 ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. gual and facial branches of the external caro- tid, were torn off from the trunk, and the internal carotid was rent acrofs, as has been already mentioned. Neither the trunk of the 8th pair of nerves, nor the great fympathetic, nor thofe of the tongue, appeared to have fuffered in- jury. The fuperior laryngeal, and the de-> fcending branch of the 9th pair, were the chief nerves injured by the accident. Thefe circumftances are mentioned to enable the reader to form his own judgment on the probability of the fymptoms which occurred being produced by nervous injury or irri- tation. \ That the diforder and death of this man are not to be attributed to the quantity of blood which he had loft, appears clearly to me, not only from the degree of plenitude and power of the vafcular fyftem which re- mained, but becaufe I had feen many patients in the hofpital, who had divided moft of the primary branches of the external carotid artery in the attempt at fuicide; and who, 2 afterON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 12^ after furviving a few days, periflied in con- lequence of the lofs of blood which they had fuftained, but with a train of fymptoms very different from thofe which occurred in the prefent in fiance. Some perfons may, perhaps, be inclined to attribute inflammations of the brain to ner- vous injury or irritation. I have taken notice of all the injury difcoverable by dif- fedlion, and have further to obferve, that we frequently fee larger nerves lacerated in wounds without the produdlion of fucli fymptoms, and the tranquil flate of the patient, till the inflammation of the brain came on, oppofes fuch an idea. Upon re- fiedlion, I can form no other opinion of the cafe than that which firfl flnick me, which is, that though the flopping the fupply of blood to the brain did not for feveral hours produce any apparent derangement in the fundlions of that organ, yet fuch a flate was gradually occafioned by it, and which was attended like the effedls of concuffion of the brain, with inflammation. It further appeared, that when the combined effedls refulting from the derange-t ia8 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAB, derangement, and the inflammation wer^ manifeflred together, the flate of the patient much refembled that of a perfon who had fuffered concuflion. Miafmata which im- pair and difliurb the energies of the brain, occaflon fever and inflammation of that organ, fo that there appears to me nothing wonderful in the inflammation which oc- curred in the prefent inftance. It is right, however, to mention, that the carotid artery has been fince tied in this city, by Mr. Tra- vers, without fuch effedls as I have defcribed taking place. >, Mr. Travers has obligingly communicated to me the following particulars of this cafe, which I herehnfert: “ The cafe to which you refer, I confider “to be an example of the difeafe which “ Mr. J. Bell has denominated Aneurifm by “ Anaftamofls. It was a tumour, refem- “ bling the Nsevus, of a livid colour, and “ comprelTible, projefting from the orbit, “ pulfating formidably, and gradually work- ing the eye out of its focket. PrelTure aggravatedON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, 129 “ aggravated the puKc, and gave infupport- able pain. In examining it, I put my ** thumb on the carotid of the fame fide', “ and the pulfe inflantly ceafed. Seeing “ that it grew faft, I prevailed on the patient, “ a women of eight-and-thirty, to allow me “ to tie the common carotid artery, which “ I did laft May twelvemonth. She fuffered “ nothing more than I have ufually feen follow other operations for Aneurifm, and was abroad at the end of a month. The / tumour ceafed to pulfate, but for fome time retained a vibratory thrill, which it has fince totally loft. It likewife ftirunk to about half its former fize, and became “ folid and incomprefiible, in which ftate it has ftiice remained. I may alfo add, “ that the patient was greatly aftli6led with “ pain in the head prior to the operation, and “ that it has completely removed that pain.” The different ftatcs of the two Tides of the body, in the cafe which I have laft re- lated, ought not, I think, to pafs wi hout further notice! Although the right fide, could not be pofitively Taid to be paraly- voL. III. K tic136 ON INJURIES O? THE HEAI3. tic, yet, in my opinion, it approached to that Hate. It has been already obferved, that a double conftrudlion might be put upon the fymp- toms; yet as the inflammation of the brain was equal on both fides, we might naturally expe6l the whole body to fufler equally. Should the ftate of the right flde have been, as appears mofl; probable, an approach to a flate of paralyfis, it mufl: furely be con- fidered as peculiarly curious. An effuflon of blood in the left hemifphere of the brain Vvould affedl the oppoflte fide of the body in the fame manlier, that cutting off the fupply of blood to the left flde appears in this inftance to have done. I forbear to fpecLilate on this fubjedt: the fa6l which I have mentioned feems to deferve notice, and though at prefent it mufl: fland alone, it may receive future confirmation, and when thus fupported, be applied to the elucidation of pbyflolog)^ I have thought it right to record this cafe, not merely becaufe it is curious, but becaufe■Cli INJURIES OF THE HEAD. IJI iDCcaufe it affords fome ufeful pradlical hints, as to the conduft to be puffued when a perfon has divided the large primary branches of the carotid artery in an attempt at fui- cide. It may be allowable alfo to mention, in relation, to this latter fubjedt, the great advantages which appear to me to arife from the immediate introdudlion of a fmall claftic catheter, paffed through the right noftril, down the ccfophagus, nearly as far as the ftomach, (in the manner pradtifed by Deffault, in the cure of a perfon wounded by a piftol ball,) when the pharynx or larynx are injured. A patient in fuch a flatc is not under the neceflity of frequently fwallowing nourifh- ment, which act tears open the wounded parts, and cauies inflammation in them, and produces fuch a fecretion of mucus as excites almofl: conftant cough, increafing the diflurb- ance of the wounded parts. The introduction of a fmall elaftic catheter may be eafily accompliflied in the firft in- ftance, though not without difficulty, after K 2 the13* ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the fenlibility of the parts has been increafed by inflammation, and from the benefit I have feen derived from it I fliould not hefitate to do it in all cafes of extenfive wounds of the throat.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. ON THE ILL consequences SOMETIMES SUCCEEDING TO VENESECTION. public is much Indebted to Mr. Hun- ter for a judicious account of the appear- ance and effecls of the inflammation of the vein, which fometimes fucceeds to venae- fedtion. The ill confequences which occa- fionally follow that operation are numerous and diflimilar j and they have never I believe been clearly and colledtively flated and ex- plained. The cafes recorded of fuch com- plaints are difperfed in various periodical publications i and frequently, the nature of the difeafe appears not to have beenunderftood by the perfon who relates its hiftory. In pro- portion as I have feen more varieties of thele difeafes, my own knowlege pf them has K 3 become134 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL become more clear and limplej and as I believe, I can communicate ufeful informa- tion, I have ventured to offer to the public the following obfervations and opinions. I have been alfo incited to this talk, becaufe the account in his Syftem of Surgery, which Mr. Benj. Bell has given of thefe complaints, appears to me confufed j and the pradlice recommended improper. I am hurt to cen- fure the works of any author, but this either muff be done, or injurious error muft remain; iincontradi6fed. When from want of attention, or from other caufes, the wound inflidfed in vensefec- tion does not fpeedily unite, the motions of the arm occafion attrition of its fides againft each other, and inflammation of the wounded,, or contiguous parts, is likely to enfue., I fhall give a brief account of thefe different com- plaints, in the order in which I believe they mofl frequently happen. Of Injla'niirt-ation of the Integuments^ and fub-^ jacent cellular Subfances. The inflammation and fuppuration of the: cellular fubftance in which the vein lies, is. the.'CONSEQUENCES OP VENESECTION. I35 the moft frequent occurrence. Of this every furgeon muft have feen repeated inftances; they may alfo have remarked, that on the fubfidence of this inflammation, the tube of the vein is free from induration: neither does the ftate of any of the furrounding parts in- dicate their previous participation in the dif- eafe. The nature of every excited inflam- mation will vary as the caufe which produced it, and the conflitution of the patient fliall de- termine ; it will therefore be unneceflary to par- ticularly notice the varieties of its appearance. Sometimes the inflammation wDl be more indolent, and will produce a circumfcribed and flowly fuppurating tumour. Sometimes it will be more diffufed, partaking more of the nature of eryfipelas : and fometimes its violence, and rapid termination, will evidently diftinguifh it to be a phlegmon. If the lancet with which the patient was bled fliould have been bad; if it lacerated rather than cut the parts through which it pafled j if the conflitution of the patient be irritable j and more particularly, if fuffident attention be not paid to procure the union of the divided parts, but the motion of the K 4^ ar^n156 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL arm be allowed: the irritation, which thc- fri6tion of the oppofite edges of the wound muft occalion, will mold probably excite in- flammation. The treatment proper to be purfued in -this complaint is manifeft, and diftinguifh|d by no peculiarity j I fliall there- fore poflpone what I have to fay on that fub- je6t, until "I have noticed the other varieties of thefe difeafes. Of Inf animation of the abforbing Vefels. The next frequent complaint which I have fgen is inflammation of the abforbents: it however [fometimeb accidentally happens, that one furgeon meets with many cafes of a fimilar nature, fo that were he to judge merely from liis own obfervation, he might con- clude that difeafe to be common, when the collefled experience of others would deter- mine it to be a rare occurrence. I am inclined to fufpe6t, that my obfervation has been thus partial, fince Mr. Hunter has hot publicly noticed this complaint. I think I cannot give a better hiflory of the commence- mencement, appearances, and event of this difeafe, than by relating three cafes, of the circum-CONSEQUENCES OF VENESECTION. circumftances of which I took an account. It is right, however, to mention, that I have feen two others, of which I took no minutes j and which I am unwilling to relate only from recolleftion. CASE. A lady was bled in the vena mediana bafi- lica; the wound did not heal, nor was fuffi- cient attention paid to preferve the arm quiet. Eight days afterwards, I was confulted, in confequence of the patient being alarmed, by the appearance of two fwellings; one was fitu- ated about the middle of the arm, over the. large velTels, the other on the forearm, about the mid fpace between the elbow and wrift, in the integuments above the flexor mufcles. The upper fwelling meafured rather more in circumference than an egg, the other was of fmaller dimenfions j they were not very pain- ful, they were moderately firm in their tex- ture, and fo exactly refembled thofe tumours which form round irritated lymphatics, that no doubt could be entertained of their na- ture. The orifice made by the lancet was not healed, the Integuments for about one- fourthX3S ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL fourth of an inch furrounding it, were in a flight degree inflamed, and thickened. No induration of the venous tube could be diftin- guiflied, either at this time, or after the fub- fidence of inflammation. The account which I obtained from the \ patient, of the attack of this complaint, was, that the wound inflamed, became painful, and dilcharged matter; that the gentleman by whom flie was bled had drefled it with falve, but did not reftrain her from ufing her arm; tliat about five days after the operation, fhc had felt pains fliooting from the orifice, in lines, up and down her arm, and upon prelT- ing in the courfe of this pain, its degree was increafed. This account induced me to ex- amine the arm attentively, and I could plainly feel two indurated abforbents, leading to the fuperior tumour, but could not perceive any extending to the lower one. The wounded part was drefled with mild falve; a bread and milk poultice was applied to both tumours, and the arm was fupported by a fling, and retained withoutmotion orexertion. The integuments furrounding the orifice loft their difppfition to, CONSEQUENCES OF V.EJ^jESECTIQN. 1^9 to inflame, and the wound gradually healed; during five days, the tumours underwent no evident alteration ; the poultice was changed to one of bread, water, and a folution of acetate of lead, under which they quickly diminifhed and difperfed. CASE. A man about 35 years of age, was admit- ted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, under the care of Mr. Pott: he had been bled in the country, about a fortnight before his admif- fion; fince that time he had been extremely ill, and was with difficulty conveyed to Lon- don. The Hate in which he was admitted, I fhall defcribe: His whole arm was greatly fwollen, the wound made by the lancet was not united, the parts immediately furround- ing it did not feem to be affedled by diftindt inflammation; but partook of the general tu- mefaffion. Two large abfceffes had formed, one fituated near the inner edge of the biceps mufcle, about the middle of the arm; and the other, on the infide of the fore-arm. The pa- tient told us that he had been bled, on account of a pain in his fide j that the orifice, inftead ofbit tHE dCCASIONAL ILL of healing had feftered, that he had for a time purfued his daily employment, notwithftand* ^ ing the pain which he fufFered j that this, however, foon became too violent to be en- dured } the fwelling and pain extended to- >vards the armpit, where the glands became enlarged. Inflammation next attacked the forearm, and after fulfering extreme pain and fever, thefe abfcefl'es had formed, and fince that time his illnefs and pain had in fome degree abated. Mr. Pott opened both ab- feefles, and direiffced his whole arm to be co- vered with a poultice. The patient was kept in bed, and medicines likely to alleviate inflammation were preferibed. In about four weeks, the arm was reduced nearly to its natural dimenfions. The orifice, through which he was bled, had united, and the wounds by which abfeeffes had been opened were nearly healed. The parts furrounding them, however, ftill remained thickened, and alfo all the integuments on the infide of the arm. In thefe thickened integuments, three- chord-like fubffances, evidently abforbents, were to be diftinguifhed; they extended from the punftured part to the fuperior abfeefs, 10 andCONSEQUENCES OF VENuESECTION. I4t and again above this, two were continued even to the axilla. Two other indurated abfor- bents alfo were extended from the pun6tured part to the inferior abfcefs. The punctured vein being attentively examined, was found to be a little thickened, both above and below the orifice; it had, however, no conne6lion with thefe chord-like fubftances, which were fuperficial, and their appearance, courfe, and every other circumftance, clearly fhewed them to be indurated abforbents. The hard- nefs of thefe veflels, and of the integuments had much diminilhed, and the patient had re- gained the ftrength of his arm, before he was difeharged from the hofpital. CASE. A poor man was bled, in one of the bleed- ing-lhops of this city. His operator dipped fome rag in the blood which he had taken, applied it to the orifice, and bound it on the arm with a tape. The patient felt much pain in the wound, even from the time of the operation, and experienced much diffi- culty in moving his arm. As the rag ftuck clofely to the orifice, he was unwilling to re- move142 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL move it; however, on the third day, the violence of the pain induced him to take it oft; he then found the parts fiirrounding the pundlure inflamed and hardened. The patient had alfb fuffered much pain, which extended towards the axilla, and one of the glands there was fwollen. He anointed the arm with .fome ointment, but the pain fo in- creafed, that he could fcarcely bear it to touch his fide. The integuments about the middle of the arm were elevated by a tumour, which was painful when prefled ; the bafe of it was not circumfcribed, but was gradually .lofl in the furrounding parts. In this fitua- tion he requefled my advice. I gave him fome mild falve to drefs the wounded part; I diredfed him to keep conffantly applied to the integuments, covering the inflamed lymphatics, fome cloths wetted with the cold folution of acetate of lead, to keep his arm completely fupported by a fling, and to take fome gently purgative medicine. This he did, the inflammation gradually fubfided; and the wound made by the lancet healed. ^3 ItCONSEQUENCES OF VENESECTION. I4S It might be fufpefled, that in the cafes which have been related, the lancet which was employed was envenomed; and that the abforption of virulent matter was the exciting caufe of inflammation: the defcent of the difeafe to the inferior abforbents, in the two iiift cafes, oppofes that opinion; and it is further invalidated by the obfervations which I fiiall proceed to offci*. Since the ftrudturc and functions of the abforbing veflels have become fo well known, the atten- tion of medical pradtitioners has been diredled to their difeafes, and much novel informa- tion has been acquired. That which relates to the prefent fubjedf, 1 fhall endeavour briefly to ftate. Phyfiology fliews to us, that the ^bforbents poflefs much fenfibility. Pradical obfervatioii ftrengthens this opi- nion : the celerity with which thefe veflels inflame, when they have imbibed noxious matter, and the pain which is fufibred in confequence, fufliciently prove this circum- ftance. Their frequent inflammation, in confequence of diflurbance of the general conftitution, may be however regarded as an additional argument. A common cold pro- duces144 THE OCCASIONAL ILL duces a painful tumefa6Hon of the abforbent glands j and in fome fevers, thefe parts are particularly obnoxious to difeafe. There is another circumflance, which de- ferves attention; when the abforbents be- come inflamed, they quickly communicate this difeafe to the cellular fubftance, by which they are furrounded. Moll furgeons have remarked thefe veflels when indurated, to appear like fmall chords, perhaps of .one- eighth of an inch in diameter; this fubftance is furely not the flender fides of the veffel thus fuddenly augmented in bulk, but an induration of the furrounding cellular fub- ftance, to which the irritated veflel has com- municated inflammation. The formation of a common bubo is another inftance of the power, which thefe veflels poflefs, of in- volving the furrounding parts in their dif- eafe ; at firft one or two glands are found to be inflamed, but they foon become undif- tinguifhable, in the general inflammation of the furrounding fubftance. This inflamma- tion either is difperfed, or it terminates in fuppuration: and on the fubfidence of the generalCONSEQUENCES OF VENiESECTION. 145 general tumour, the originally difeafed glan^^ again become diftinguifhable. I now wifh to fliew, that their inflamma- tion, in confequence of local injury, is de- ducible from two caufes: one, the abforption of acrid matter; and the other, the effedl of irritation of the divided tube. Of the in- flammation arifing from the abforption of morbific matter, every one is apprized j but that which is the effe6l of irritation, has been lefs remarked < When virulent matter is taken up by the abforbents, it is generally conveyed to the next abforbent gland j where, its progrefs be- ing retarded, its ftimulating properties in- duce inflammation j and frequently no evi- dent difeafe of the veflel through which it has pafled can be diftinguifhed. The abforption of fyphilitic and cancerous matter affords frequent proofs of this aflertion. There are, indeed, fome poifons fo acrid, that the veflel which admits them inflames throughout its whole extent; yet ftill the glands are prin- cipally affeded. When inflammation of VOL. III. L the L' • -ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL '|Jieal)forbeft ts happens in confequence of irri- tation, that part of the veflel neareft the irri- tating caufe generally fuffers moft; whilft the 'glands, heing remotely fituated, partake lefs of tiie inflammation. The inflammation is alfb of a different kind, and, I think, can be difcriminated: when it arifes from poifon ar- •refted in the part, the gland is firfl: indurated, and a phlegmonoid inflammation follows j ‘.but if irritation be the caufe of its enlarge- ment, the tumefa6lion more fpeedily takes place, the gland is more painful in its early jftate, but has lefs tendency to fuppurate; the enlargement more refembles that of the lym- phatic glands of the neck, which is the con- 1 fequence of taking cold. When the inflammation arifes from irrita- tion, it will be expedfed, and I believe it will be found, that the continuity of the veflel will be apparent: but it does not follow, that the greatefl; difeafe will be immediately ad- joining that part which has fuftained the in- jury« The cafes which have been related fliew that inflammatory tumours often form in the middle of the arm and forearm, 12 whenCONSEQUENCES OF VENiESECTION. 147 when the wound of the abforbent is at tlie bend of the elbow. Were it necclfary, I could relate feveral cafes where fuch tumours were formed from injuries done to the fingers, or m confequence of fretting ulcers of the leg. When they arife from the latter caufe, it might be fuppofed that fome acrid matter had been imbibed ; yet, I think, in that cafe, we fiiould find the glands the principal feat of the difeafe. It has been proved, that the abforbents frequently inflame far below the part where the,veflcl has fuflained an injury, and where the inflammation could not be occafioned by abforption. Thefe obferva=- tions I thought it right to infert, to illuflrate the cafes which have been related; and alfo to excite more general attention to the difeafes of thefe important veflels. Of lnfammatlo7i of the Vein. After the account which Mr. Hunter has given of the inflammation of the vein, (in the Medical and Chirurgical Tranfadfioils) no additional information from me will be ex- pefted, nor is it perhaps required. If the wound of the vein does not unite, an inflam- X- 2 mationI 148 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL I mation of^that veffel will probably follow *• which will vary in its degree, in its extent,: and in the courfe which it purfues. One degree of inflammation may occaflon only a flight thickening of the venous tube, and an adhefion of its fides j more violent inflam- mation may be attended with the formation of more limited, or more extenflve abcefles 5 the matter of which may fometimes mix itfelf with the circulating fluids, and produce dan- gerous confequences : or it may be circum- fcribed by the thickening and adhefion of the furrounding parts, and then like a com- mon abfcefs make its way to the furface. When the inflammation of the venous tube is extenflve, it is, indeed, very probable, that much fympathetic fever will enfues not merely from the excitement which inflamma- tion ufually produces j but alfo, beeaufe irri- tation will- be continued along the membra- nous lining of the vein to the heart. If, however, the effe6l of the excited inflamma- tion has luckily been to produce adhefion of the fldes of the vein, at fome little diftancc from the wounded part, the inflammation- will here ceafe; its further tranfmifTion will byCONSEQUENCES OF VENiESECTION. I49 by the adhefion be prevented. The effect of adhefion of membranes, in preventing the cxtenfion of inflammation along their fufr faces, is frequently apparent, and has been well explained by Mr. Hunter on another cccafion. In one cafe, Mr. Hunter applied a comprefs on the inflamed vein, above the wounded part, and he thought that he fuc- ceeded in producing adhefion, for the inflam- mation extended no further. In thofe cafes, where the inflammation does not continue equally in both direffions, but defcends along the courfe of the vein, it is probable that its extenfion in the other diredlion is prevented by adhefion. I have thus briefly and imperfedfly traii- fcribed Mr. Hunter’s opinion, that the pre- fent Eflay might not be altogether deficient in information relative to this fubjedf. I have feen but three cafes where an inflam- mation of the vein fucceeded to venaefedfion; they, however, confirm tlie foregoing obfer- vations. The vein did not in either cafe evidently fuppurate. In the firfl, about three inches of the tube inflamed both above and L 3 belowJ5® ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL below the orifice; it was accompanied with much tumour, rednefs, and pain of the cover- ing integuments, and much fever, the pulfe. was rapid, and the tongue furred. After the inflammation had terminated, and all tumour had fubfided, the vein did not fwell when comprefTion was made above the difeafed part. The fecond cafe was of a fimilar na- ture, but lefs in degree. In the third cafe, the inflammation was not continued in the courfe of the vein towards the heart, but ex- tended as low as the wrift. I have no doubt, but that adhefion of the fides of the vein was the caufe which prevented the extenfion of the difeafe, equally in both diredtions. The nature of a difeafe being known, the treat- ment is commonly evident. The diminu- tion of inflammation in a vein is to be at- ' tempted by the fame general means as in other parts. As the membranous lining of the vein is continued to the heart, and as inflammation very fpeedily fpreads along fuch furfaces, unlefs prevented by adhe- fion; the application of a comprefs at fome diftance from the pundfured part, in order to unite the inhamed fides of CCONSEQUENCES OF VENESECTION. IfX • L 4 the vein, appears to be particularly ju- dicious. I am induced to fuppofe, a cafe may occur' in which the vein may fuppurate, and in which a total divilion of the tube may be proper pracfice; not merely to obviate the extenfion of the local dileafe, but to prevent the colledfed pus from mixing with the circulating fluids. - Infammation of the Fafcia of the Forearm. As far as my obfervation has extended, the next frequent ill confequence which fuc-^ ceeds to vensefeftion performed in the arm, is an inflammation of the fubjacent fafcia. When this complaint occurs, it perhaps ariies not merely from the contiguity of the fafcia to the pundtured and irritated parts, but it is probable that it was wounded ’by the lan- cet in the operation. I hope that the cafes which I fliall relate, and thofe to which I can refer the reader, will convey fufflcient in- formation of the fymptoms and effects.of this difeafe. CASEON THE OCCASIONAL ILL 152 CASE. A man, aged 40, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, under the care of Mr. Pott: he had much pain and difficulty of moving his arm, in confequence of in- flammation fucceeding to phlebotomy. The wound inflidfed in the operation was not healed j the furrounding integuments were mot much inflamed, but he could neither ex- tend his forearm nor his fingers without great pain. The integuments of the forer- arm were affedfed with a kind of eryfipelas; when flightly touched, they were not very painful, but when more forcibly comprefTed, fo as to afledt the inferior parts, much pain was fuflered. The patient complained of pain, extending towards the axilla, and alfo towards the acromion, but no tumour of the arm in either direftion was perceptible. A poultice was applied to the arm, opium was given at night, and aperient medicines were occaflonally preferibed. The pain in the arm increafed, and it was attended by much fever. After a week had elapfed, a fmall and fuperficial coHe61;ion of matter tookCONSEgUENCES OF VENiESECTIONT. 155 took place a little below the internal condyle; this being opened, but little pus was dif- charged, and fcarcely any deereafe of tumour or pain followed. About ten days after- wards, a fludluation of matter was diftin- guhhed below the external condyle; an inci- fion was here alfo made, which penetrated the fafcia of the forearm. Much matter immediately gufhed from the wound, the fwelling greatly fubfided, and the future fufferings of the patient were comparatively of little confequence. This opening was, however, inadequate to the complete dif- charge of the matter, which had probably been originally formed beneath the fafcia in. the courfe of the ulna; its pointing at the upper part of the arm, depended on the tenuity and comparative non-refiftance of the fafcia at that part. The colledfed pus defcended to the lower part of the detached fafcia, a dependent opening for its difeharge became neceflary, after which the patient recovered, without any circumftance being lobferved worth relating. The cafe which I have juft related, and that in which two large abfeefles had formed, attended with in- 8 durated I154 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL ■' durated abforbents, occurred nearly at the fame time at the hofpital, and they both fell under the care of Mr. Pott. In the le6fures of that eminent furgeon, 1 had heard dan- gerous and fatal conlequences attributed to the injury of a nerve in venaefeftion, but I learned no other diftinftion of cafes. Thefe cafes firfl: excited my attention to this fubje6l, and as far as I know, fuch difcrimination as that which I now offer to the public has not been attempted. I havefeen one other cafe of inflamed fafcia, but I neglefted to take notes of the fymptoms j I therefore can onlyx fay, that at the time they appeared fo clearly to charafterize it, that I entertain'no doubt of its nature. No inflammation of the vein or abforbents ap- peared, the integuments were not much afTeffed, but the patient complained that his arm felt as if bound or compreffed, and that he fuffered much pain if he attempted to ex- tend it. The inflammation fubfided without the formation of matter 5 and after much time had elapfed, the pliability of the arm was gradually regained. I the lefs regret myCONSEQUENCES OF VENESECTION. 155 my deficiency of experience on this fubjeSl, as I can refer the reader to the fecond volume of the Medical Communications; he will there meet with two cafes, which I believe he will acknowlege to be inflammations of the fafcia; attended, however, with fomc peculiarity of fymptoms. The firff cafe is related by Mr. Colby of Dorrington, in Devonfhire; the other by Mr. Watfon. The inflammation of the fafcia, in the latter cafe, was followed by a permanent contracfion of the forearm. From this cafe, I think we have acquired ufeful knowlege: fhould a fimilar contradlion of the forearm from a tenfe ftate of the fafcia in future occur, it feems reafonable to fup- pofe, that it may be completely relieved by detaching the fafcia from the tendon of the biceps, to which it is naturally connedled. This, I conclude, was the caufe of the pcr- fe6l refloration of free motion, in the cafe firfl: related by Mr. Watfon. On this fub- jedl I will not enlarge, but fubmit the opinion to the judgment of the reader. TheON the occasional ill 556 The treatment of an inflamed fafcia, the confequence of venaefe6Hon, has in it no pe- culiarity. Doubtlefs, thofe general means which are reduclive of inflammation fhould be employed. Of local treatment, quietude of tlie limb, and a ftate of relaxation of the inflamed part, will tend to leflen difeafe; but as foon as fome abatement of inflammation is procured, the extenflon of the forearm and fingers ought to be attempted, and daily per- formed, to obviate that contra<Stion which might otherwife enfue. Of the ill Cojifequences fiicceeding to a wounded Nerve. In order to complete, in fome degree, this Elfay, I have attempted to difeufs the pre- fent fubjeft; though, I acknowlege, I have no pra6lical information to communicate. I believe thefe accidents to be of rare occurrence, fmee thofe of my medical friends, to whom I have applied for information,. had never feen a cafe, the fymptoms which they could decifively pronounce to arife merely from an injured’nerve. Mr. Pott in his lectures ufed toCONSE^iUENCES OF VEN-ffiSECTION. I57 to fav, that he had feen two cafes in which the patients had fuffercd diftrafting pain, which was followed by convulfions, and other fymptoms which could only be afcribed to nervous irritation. He attributed thefe effects to a partial divifion of the nerve, and recommended its total divifion as a probable remedy. Dr. Monro, I am informed, relates fimilar cafes, in which fuch treatment has proved fuccefsful. I rely on the difcrimina- tion of thefe eminent men, yet I feel con- vinced, that the greater number of furgeons have been deficient in diftinguilhing thele difcafes. A wounded nerve, afting as a caufe, muft alv/ays produce fpecific and charadle- riftic fymptoms and effefts. I need not infifi; on the necefiity of difcrimination in thefe complaints; thofe who have defcribed the fymptoms refulting front an injured nerve,, have rcprefented them as at all times immi- nently hazardous, and frequently fatal. An operation is here demanded; from it we have reafon to expe«51; immediate mitigation of the patient’s fufferings, and his future perfect xefioration* Yet this operation in any other of•158 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL of the complaints before treated of* would be .unneceflary, and perhaps detrimental. I fhall arrange what I have to fay on this fubjeft in the following manner: Firlt, I fhall explain what nerves are fubje6l to in- jury ; fecondly, I lhall inveftigate what; are the effedts likely to be produced by fuch an accident; and thirdly, I lhall enquire, what means are mod: likely to afford relief. Firlf, The two cutaneous nerves a/rethofe which are expofed to injury. I dilfedted them in feveral fubje6ls with attention, and found fome irregularity in their diftribution j mod frequently all their branches pafs beneath the veins, at the bend of the arm; but fome- times, although the principal rami dill go beneath thefe vedels, many fmall filaments are detached before them, which it is impof- fible to avoid wounding in phlebotomy. As I believe many furgeons retain but an in- didindt remembrance of thefe nerves, and as I have never feen them accurately depidled, •in any anatomical book, I thought I diould doCOHSJQUENC£S Of VEKT/ESECTION. ' do an acceptable fervice, by giving an engrav- ing of them. I therefoi'e made two drawings; of them: one exhibiting their moft fimplc courfe; the mother, their moft complicated diftribution. Thefe, I conclude, are the only nerves liable to injury : it may be fuf- pe6led, that the median nerve might occa- fionally l)e woundedbut its fituation, I think, makes this opinion improbable. If, however, a doubt Ihould be entertained on, this fubje6l, an.attention to fymptoms foon difpel it; when a nerve is irritated at any part between its origin and termination, a fenfation is felt as if fome injury were done to the parts which it ftipplies. If, therefore, the cutaneous nerves were injured, the inte- guments of the forearm would feem to ftjffer pain; but if the median nerve was wounded, the thumb and two next fingers would be affected with pain. By referring to the plate, it will be feen, that if the patient be bled in the vena me- diana bafilica, the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve arc expofed to injury 3 or, if the v^ena rtiediana cephalica be opened, the branchesI tSo «N THE OCCASIONAL ILL branches of the external cutaneous nerve may be wounded. Secondly, I wifli to enquire what are the ills likely to arife from a wounded nerve. —- Whoever reflefts on the wonderful minute- nefs of the nervous fibrils, and confiders their perfedf diftindtnefs from each other, although conne6fed by a common covering of cellular fubftance, will' fcarcely imagine a partial divifion of a nervous fibril. If I fought to exprefs myfelf ftridlly on this fubjedl, I fhould fpeak of a partial divifion of a packet of nerves. But I lliail ufe the commonly adopted language, and call thofe chords nerves, wdiich are really compofed of multi- tudes of feparate nerves. I firfi: beg leave tc^ examine the opinion which has prevailed, of a nerve being partially divided. Admitting, that a nerve be partially divided, would it not, like a tendon, or any other fubfiance, rmite ? I think there can be no doubt but that it would :■ I am induced to this opinion by confidering, that nerves of equal fize with the cutaneous nerves of the arm are diftributed in confiderable numbers through- out' CONSEQUENCES OF VEN.ESECTION. l6t out the body. In the many operations per- formed, and in the wounds daily occurring, I think it would be ftrange if a partial divi- fion of a nerve fliould not happen, yet no peculiar fymptoms are obferved ufually to enfue. The pain which fome people fuffer from bleeding, in my opinion, indicates an injury done to a neiwe. If the reader refers to the plate, he will perceive, that in fome cafes it is impoffible to avoid dividing branches of nerves in phlebotomy, as fome- times they pafs before the vein. Thefe branches are fo expofed, that I fhould be furprifed if they did lot many times fuffer a partial divifion. Surely, however, a half divided nerve would unite with- out caufmg a general derangement of the nervous fyflem. Yet it is poflible that an inflammation of the nerve may acci- dentally enfue, which would be aggravated, if it were kept tenfe, in confequence of im- pcrfeft divifion. In the cafes related by Mr. Pott and Dr. Monro, I believe, that fome days elapfed after the inflidtion of the injury, before any' alarming derangement of the nervous fyflem enfued. Inflammation of voL. III. M the M162 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL the furrounding parts alfo appeared. Thefc pbfervations make it evident to me, that the difeafe confifts in inflammation of the injured nerve, in common with the other wounded parts; and this inflammation, I can conceive, to happen with or without a total divifion of the nervous chord. I fliould confider a cafe of inflamed nerve as an objedt of great cu- riofity j every one, I think, will admit, that it is likely to communicate dreadful irritation to the fenforium; and every one will per- ceive, that a cure will probably arife from intercepting its communication with that important part. Thirdly, I proceed to enquire what is the mofl: probable method of relieving the effedts arifing from, an inflamed nerve. The general opinion is, that the nerve is only partially divided, and that a total divifion would free the patient from a continuance of his fuffer- ings. Mr. Pott fuppofed that the wounded nerve was fituated at one or the other extre- mity of the wound which had been made in the vein j he therefore propofed,to divide it totally, by enlarging a little the original orifice. ItCONSEQUENCES OF VENJESECTION. 16^ it is however poflible, that the point of the lancet might injure a nerve lying beneath the vein* This will be eafily underftood by referring to the plate. Mr. Bell diredls an ex- tenfive tranfverfe incifion, to be made through the original wound; but if the injured nerve be fituated at -fhe upper extremity of the orifice, it will remain unafFedted by this ope- ration* Mr. Bell alfo advifes the incifion to be continued to the bone; but this appears to me dangerous and unneceflary. If the injured nerve be inflamed, I think it doubtful, whether even a total divifion of it, at the inflamed part, would effedlually relieve the general nervous irritation which the difeafe has occafioned. To intercept the communication of the inflamed nerve with the fenforium, does however promife perfefl relief. This intention can only be accom- plifhed, by making a tranfverfe incifion above the orifice in the vein. The incifion need not be very extenfive, for the injured nerve muft lie within the limits of the original orifice, and it need only defcend as low as the fafcia of the fore-arm: for all the fila- M 2 mentsi64 on The occasional, Sjc. ments of the cutaneous nerves lie above this fafcia. The vein which had been opened, and fome filaments of the cutaneous nerves, are all the parts of confequence which will be divided in this operation. The proximity of the divifion of the nerve to the vein, muft be regulated by the fuppofed extent of the difeafe. However, as the extent of the in- flammation of the nerve is uncertain, I fub- mit it to the confideration of furgeons, whether it may not be advifeable, in fome cafes, to divide either of the cutaneous nerves, flill more remotely from the injured nerve. I find little difficulty in detecting the trunk of thefe nerves in the dead fubjedb, and I fhould fuppofe but little would occur in the living ftate j for the compreffion of the tour- niquet, would prevent any obfcurity which hemorrhage might caufe. II ^ ' il^fi <>/- t^' >i^*J. ’ , •. '■ ' 'm m7; ■iV?Sl!^ 'o ' ?‘®| *,i- \ <>« 'lA %i.K -, .♦>■>- * * * *4 ' , t«‘ C/M>;W-4Vr‘ I'’ '-:• I' • ' '' d • ■.■*-*" >'- .’l**/l. ••’ill ^ •- ' ’I ■ f .•■I {(? •^ - I *•! , ‘ I ‘ » « Vv • i- - ^ ■ -'-■'.■-t-rTTT ' .4. 'A i-u • r ■* ‘ [#T' j' -t' 'JV- w - '•’ ^ -at ■ . * * ■' '» ^•»f . I - r- - ys.^ ♦ - « .- b‘ * ’ -r r» . I ■ >r»7 , t ’.. ^ V -f •> !^H I ♦*< i. -1 ' T > ” V • ' * f t ** ' i <4' I ^I Nervus cutaneus externus. Explanation of the Plate, '" A Vena bafilica. ‘B Vena cephalica. C Vena mediana. D Vena radialis. E Vena cubitalis. F Vena mediana bafilica. G Vena mediana cephalica. H Nervus cutaneus internus./ l66 ON THE OCCASIONAL ILL General Obfervations on the ill Confequences Jhmetimes fucceedtng to Vencefedlion. I think it very probable that thefe difeafes would lefs frequently happen, did not the lituation of the veins ufually opened gontrir bute to their occurrence. The common offices of life fo confl:antly demand the em- ployment of the arm, that its motion be- comes almoft inevitable. tJnlefs the orifice made by the lancet has been attentively clofed; the effedl of this motion will be to feparate the edges of the wound from each other, and to prevent their union by the lirft intention. Some flight degree of in- flammation'will enfue; the continuance of motion of the arm caufes a fridlion of the inflamed furfaces againfl each other, and thus the difeafe is increafed. Under thefe circumftances, if the conftitution of the patient be irritable, the inflammation will extend itfelf, although it may ftill be con- fined to the cellular fubflance, and integu- ments j or, perhaps, it may be tranfmitted to that part which has fuflained moft injury in theCONSEQUENCES OF VENiBSBCTlON. l6j M 4 the operation. The vein, the abforbents, the fafeia, or the nerve, may in that cafe fuffer peculiar diforder. Although the injury done by a bad lancet may contribute to the pro- duction of difeafe, yet I think it probable, that a patient improperly bled, would fuftain no injury, if the treatment of the wound was judicious j whilft another, on whom the operation had been dexteroufly and well performed, would be liable to thefe ill confe- quences, if the proper attention to unite the wound was negledted, ’ In the account given of thefe difeafes, they have been reprefented as they occurred fepa- rately; doubtlefs, in fome cafes, they may be combined. The principal curative indications appear to be, to mitigate the inflammation about the orifice, and to preferve the arm fupported in a motionlefs ftate. I need not enlarge this account, by deferibing the modes of appeaf- ing inflammation and irritation, as they are well known to every fqrgeon.• • 'T.f , ; iv-- > . M ?• i‘. '■')]».. i frrf h . .■•’ "'■ .V.'iv-: 1:.' i' ' ' 7 ;. it V viiii U - *■ * ' *■’ #’ i. i €‘A.'h (iL'in: t(h /■ '- * "/ion,! i. p- :/j. I'., f 'ji av'' ^ '-’r ■ ..i y/ h'.-/07' J'' T • , >M ' ‘f. /' 0:iir, \tV r:f;» • « 4 <f . /« f r!: ." '^' ' '•- Ifl* )l:-' ;mJ !'• ' • j.l' ■ ■ '.' r- • v>i^j/,'.- i. :i >rxi • .• ,.■. .':. : •.« •. . • » ' : j '' ^ ' _•_ J i I # <• / I f‘ -iln- ;.'!!; i:^:.:‘ ,. • ,,, _ ’j(ii w) *it ?0 •';'' "’'b T; :' ' 44.' Ij ;tT -'"'i ' Av;;;i ;■• ••• yi yfnxi 'f'i’ti " T('’ :.{‘ r- !> - V • ”''••'•• .• 6- ■ . '• ■ * t ' • " ■'•‘til’ . . f * ' I' fi: / 5 / • . . V . ^ ^ ■ •. ‘ i : . -k ii ■.')C«’*,rr>i >/■(( *’?■; 3 ifiV'’ >.r : ■ -H. ‘I’f -.-fr' 'i CCn/jJf.-' ■•?;*;: r; / * r ^ 5 'r;. b.'i;., . j-;:’ t :^:IT ■ .'7v ■ 1:. ■ S',W, ^ > > ' • ^ . •- ■** ’ * * 1 ■ * ^ • ■ • ’ V ► !• •. :' \.^a*:rti:i.i.h ,,;ii < I |{^v ' ■» V ; ’ ' .•>- .,v -yru^ \ '^afl9 emphyfema SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS, ON EMPHYSEMA. TV yfucH praife is, in my opinion, due to John Bell, for the clear and fpirited defcription which he has given of the ftate of ' the lungs in one kind of emphyfema. The following cafe is related, to corroborate his remarks, and alfo to lead to others which I am defirous of offering to the public on the fubjeft of emphyfema in general. CASE. A poor woman, about forty years of age, was run over by a mail-coach, one of the wheels of which paffed lengthwife over her back, and fradlured feveral of her ribs on the right fide. When brought to the hofpital, fhe breatlied with much difhculty, and anON EMPHYSEMA. 170 emphyfema of the integuments had taken place. An opening was made through the fkin to let out the air i and the emphyfema did not afterwards fpread. The patient was bled largely; but the difficulty of breathing had increafed to the third day, at which time I fir ft faw her, in company with Mr. Harvey, under whofe care fhe was. She had pafted the preceding night without the leaft deep, and breathed at this time with extreme difficulty; indeed it feemed as if fhe could not long continue the labour of fuch imperfeft and diftrefsful refpiration. It was fuppofed that one fide of the thorax was filled with air; and as it was fufpedled that the oppofite lung / might be opprefted by this caufe, it was agreed to extract the air from the right fide of the cheft.' With this view, Mr. Harvey made an opening into the thorax, in the fol- lowing manner: He firfi made an incifion about two inches in length, through the in- teguments, near the middle of the feventh rib, and oppofite to its lower edge. He then drew the fkin upwards, fo as to expofe the intercoftal mufcles which connedl the upper edge of this rib to the one above it. Thefe heON EMPHYSEMA. I7I he cautioufly divided, as he next did the pleura. At the time this was efFedled, I believe the patient was in the a6l of expiration; for a blaft of air evidently iffued from the thorax; and afterwards, whilft the integuments were hept retradled, and the aperture in the pleura confequently uncovered, the external air con- tinued to rufli in during the enlargement of the thorax, and to be forced out again during its contra6lion. But when the divided Ikin was allowed to defcend to its natural fituation, and thus the opening of the pleura was co- vered, no farther paffage of air took place; and all that could then be perceived, was a .deprefiion of the integuments oppofite to the aperture in the thorax, occalioned by the prelTure of the atmofphere during the en- largement of that cavity. I had got ready a large injefting fyringe, and introducing the pipe into the eavity of the chefl, I drew up the pifton, and thus exhaufted the air, till I found I was flopped from proceeding by the lung which had rilen up and applied itfelf to the mouth of the fyringe. The fkin was then immediately brought down over the aper- ture in the thorax, and ferved like a valve, toON EMPHYSEMA. 172 to prevent the further ingrefs of air into that cavity. About ten ounces meafure of air might probably have been extra6led by the fyringe. As this quantity of air cOuld have occupied but a fmall fpace when compared with the fize of the thorax, it was probable , that the back part of that cavity was filled with fluids. — Nothing further, however, was done at this time j and fhortly after the poor woman fell afleep, and breathed with com- parative eafe for nearly fix hours. But the difficulty of breathing again increafed during the night, and at noon on the following day, was nearly as great as ever. Mr. Harvey and I agreed, however, that it would not be wrong to infpedb the thorax, to fee if the lung had collapfed, or if we could by any means afford relief to the patient. Upon feparating the adhefion which had formed between the Ikin and fubjacent parts, and introducing a finger through the aperture in the pleura, we found the lung adhering to the infide of that membrane 5 but upon flightly varying the patient’s poflure, fome turbid bloody ferum flowed from beneath the lung. When we had difeharged as much of this fluid as wa/ ON EMPNYS2MA* I73 we conveniently could, the external wound was clofed j but the patient continued to breathe with increafing difficulty till about midnight, when {he died. DiJfeBion. On examining the body, no air was difco- vered in the cavity of the cheft. The right lung was partially inflated, and the anterior part of it clofely adhering to the pleura cof- talis, as far as the place where the opening had been made. About three pints of bloody fluid lay in the hollow of the ribs pofteriorly, and about half filled the cavity of the cheft on that fide j the furface of it being nearly on a level with the opening which had been made to exhauft the air. Upon the furface of this fluid, the half-inflated lung feemed to float. — I looked for the place where the lung had been wounded by the injury j but cannot fay that I could perceive it. It was, however, certainly healed ; for the lung bore inflation without letting the air efcape from it. The pleura was covered with coagulated lymph. The cells of the lung contained a quantity of fluid, and the whole fubftance of it was ofOK EMPHYSEMA. 174 of a livid colour. The cells of the lung of the oppolite fide of the cheft alfo contained more than their ordinary quantity of fluid j its veflels were turgid, and it was hard and thickened in feveral places ; which was probably owing to former difeafe. There was likewife more than a ufual quantity of turbid ferum in the left cavity of the thorax. It feems to me highly probable, that there are two ftates of the lungs in emphyfema, one of which, indeed, can rarely be proved by exa- mination, fince the patients in general do well. I have, however, met with inftances in which patients affedted with emphyfema from a wounded lung, died > of other injury, and thus been able to afcertain that the lung had not collapfed. I once alfo met with a proof of this fa6l in a patient who furvived, and I will'relate the circumftances of the cafe. . CASE. Mr. Crowther requefted me to fee a poor man who was brought into a work-houfe with fradturcd ribs, accompanied with a 4 greatON EMPHYSEMA. >75 great degree of empliyfema. The integu- ments covering the upper part of the left fide of the thorax and neck, were elevated to a great degree by air thatfeemed confined in one cavity, and not diffufed in the interftices of the cellular fubftance. The integuments of the face were alfo confiderably inflated. The pulfe was very frequent and fmall, and refpiration quick and difficult. The extre- mities were cold. All thefe circumftances had taken place fo rapidly, and were ap- parently increafmg with fo much celerity, that I thought it right, for reafons which will be mentioned afterwards, to make an opening into the cavity, of the thorax which I accordingly did, between the 7th and 8 th ribs, where the digitations of the ferratus anticus mufcle meet thofe of the external oblique. The external wound was made in the manner defcribed in the foregoing cafe. The lung was in contad with the fides of the cheft, nor did it recede when expofed. Should fuch an occurrence ever take place, a furgeon has the means of preventing its happening to any injurious degree, by in- ftantly doling the wound. We next made a punc-ON emphysema* ij6 a pim6lure through the diflended Integu- ments on the front of the cheft, about op-» pofite to the collar-bone. A blaft of air efcaped, and they fubfided to their original level. The diffufed air was exprefled in fome degree from the integuments of the face and neck through the fame wound. A bandage was now applied round the walls of the cheft, fo as' to prevent their motion and the cfcape of air into the cellular fubftance, and the patient was afterwards bled. No more emphyfema occurred, and the patient did as well as in a cafe where the ribs are merely broken, and the lungs uninjured. I cannot fatisfaclorily account for the great quicknefs and difficulty of refpiration that took place in this cafe, except by attributing it to the agitation of the patient’s mind, alarmed by ■the inflation of his neclc and face. I have feen fo many cafgs of emphyfema, attended with very little difficulty of breath- ing, or other inconvenience, indeed, proceed- ing in a manner fb like cafes of fradtured ribsOH EMPHYSEMA.' I// ribs unaccompanied witli wounds of the lungs, that I cannot fuppofe patients were in thefe cafes reduced to the neceffity of breathing with one lung only. Thefe pa- tients indeed were all treated in the man- ner recommended and pradlifed by Sir "Wil- liam Blizard. Obferving the great pain and irritation which the conftant motion of the fradtured ribs occafioned, he was induced to difregard the emphyfema, and to confine tlie motion of the ribs by a tight bandage, in the fame manner as when the lungs are un- injured : afterwards the patients were largely bled, and other evacuations were freely made. This pradlice he has fince continued with general fuccefs. The preflu re of the ban- dage in general prevents the air from efcap- ing out of the wounded lung, and pervading the cellular fubftance. It will, perhaps, appear probable to many furgeons, that, for this veiy reafon, the air will be likely to in- finuate itfelf between the two pleurae, and thus occafion a collapfe of the lung. I do not, however, fee any good reafon for fuch a fuppofition. The two pleurae remain in their natural flate of contadtj and there is no fpace- VOL. Ill, N178 ON EMPHYSEMA# fj)ace for the air to pafs between them. So frequently alfo arc there adhefions between the furface of the lung and the {ides of the thorax, that I think, in fome of the caies of emphyfema which I have feen, this circum- ftance mufl; have occurred, and that if the lungs had receded from the lides of the thorax^ the fymptoms would have indicated the lace- ration or flretching of thefe adhefions. An idea has generally prevailed among furgeons, that if the pleura coftalis were divided in the living fubjedf, the lung would immediately collapfe, as it is ufually found to do in the dead one. But M, Bremond * has {hewn by experiments, that not only when an opening is made into the cavity of the thorax, but even when {bme of the ribs are removed, the lungs Bill occupy their natural fituation, and are e\^en -thruft up into the opening during expiration. Mr. Norris has alfo lately {hewn, by experiments undertaken for this purpofe, as well as by obfervations on the effects of accidents, that fiequently the lungs do not collapfe when * Memoirs de I’Acad. des Sciences, 1739. th_5179 ON EMPHYSEMA. the cavity of the cheft is expofed in the living animal *; and I have alfo had occafion to obferve, on dividing the pleura coftalis in a cafe of fuppofed hydrothorax (in which, how- ever, no water was found), that the expofed lung did not collapfe; a circumftance which, 1 think, ought to encourage us to a more fre- quent performance of fuch an operation. In otlier experiments, however, the lungs have been known to collapfe j and the circum- flances, on which either of thcfe effe6ls de- pends, are not perhaps well underftood. For thefe reafons, I believe, that in moil cafes of emphyfema fucceeding to broken ribs, prelTurc by bandage not only liinders the air from diifuiing itfelf through the cel- lular fubftance, but ferves to prevent it from cfcaping out of the wounded lung, and of courfe facilitates the healing of the wound, which would be prevented by the conflani; tranfmiflion of air. Its early application, therefore, will often prevent a very trouble- fome fymptom, whilft, at the fame time, • Memoirs of tJie Medical Society of London, vol. it. f • 44°*-l8o ON EMPHYSEMA. by keeping theTra6lured bones from motion,; it greatly leffens the fufferings of the patient. In fome cafes where the lungs are wounded by the ribs, the air does undoubtedly get into the cavity of the thorax, as happened in the cafe of the poor woman already mentioned, and as I have feen in other inftances. When the air paffes from the wounded lung into the cavity of the cheft, and -the lung becomes in confequence collapfed, ftill the fymptoms and progrefs of the complaint will differ from the effect of circumftances which have not been much attended to. When the wound in the fides of the thorax allows of the expulfion of air from that cavity during expiration, and does not admit air during infpiration, it is not to be fuppofed that the wound of the lung can heal; for the cavity of the thorax muft, under thefe circum- ftances, be filled from the wounded lung every time that it is enlarged during infpiration. But this ftate of circumftances, wliich is fo particularly injurious, and which ufually takes place when the lung has collapfed in the ^ON EMPHYSEMA. l8l the manner defcribed, it is the bafinefs of the furgeon to remedy : and it may be accom- piiflied in two waysj Firft, by preventing the efcape of the air from the cavity of the cheft, in which cafe the neceflity of its being tilled from the wounded lung will, in a great meafure, be done away. And as I know furgeons have apprehended, that if an out- let was not given to air from the cavity of tlie cheft, the oppofite lung might become opprefled, I beg them to refledl a little on the ftate of refpiration under thefe circum- Ifances. To examine this fubjedt, let us fuppofe the thorax expanded, and one of its cavities filled with air, at which time the patient attempts to make an expiration; what will be the elfedt ? The air cannot return through the wound in the lungs; and v/e have fuppofed that it cannot efcape riirough that in the pleura coftalis. The mufcles 'of refpiration are unable then to produce any confiderable change in the dimenfions of the cavity, with- out an exertion produftive of pain, which it is not probable that they will make j the in- N 3 adtiveON Emphysema.' a6tive diaphragm will not be thrufl: up into the hypochondrium as in natural expiration, and the ribs will remain nearly ftationary ; but in proportion to the degree of the ex- piratory effort that is made, the air may be condenfed, and the mediaftinum thruft to the oppofite fide of the cheft. But no injury will arife from this prefTure, neither can it happen in any great degree j for both fides of the cheft being diminifhed at the fame time, a flight compreflion of the oppofite lung cannot be detrimental, fince it helps to exprefs the air from it,-r-the very effedt which is now required 5 and as that lung is preffed inwards by the fides of the thorax, it will countera6t any great prefTure naade on the mediaftinum. Upon infpiration taking place, the condenfed air will expand and fill the enlarged cavity, and the mediafti- num will regain its natural fituation; fo that the fundHon of the found lung is fcarcely, if at all, impeded by the compreflion which takes place on the oppofite fide of the cheft. In whatever ftate the lungs happen to be when they arc wounded, a bandage, if it can be183 ON EMPHYSEMA* he borne, feems therefore to me extremely ufeful. By means of it, the pain and irrita- tion, which the motion of the fraclured ribs mult otherwife occahon, are, in a great mea- fure, or entirely, prevented. In that ftate of the lungs which I have firil deferibed, the prelTure of a bandage prevents emphy- fema, and docs no harm; in the other, it not only prevents emphyfema, but does good, by keeping the collapfed lung at reft, and thereby free from the necefTity of con- ftantly tranfmitting air. Patients, however, will not always be able to wear a bandage when one lung is collapfed (particularly if any previous difeafe has exifted in the other), as it equally confines the motion of the ribs on both fides, and as every poflible enlarge- ment of the cheft becomes necelfaiy for the due admifllon of air into the lung which ftill executes its funftions. Under thefe circum- ftances, if the emphyfema continues (and its continuance muft always denote that the wound in the lung is not clofcd), I fliould efteem it the beft pradtice to make a fmall opening into the cheft, fo that the external air might have free communication with that N 4 cavity j1S4. ON EMPHYSEMA. cavity ; and then the injured lung muft re-i main motionlefs till its wound is healed, and the mediaftinum will, in every ftate of the thorax, preferve its natural fituation. As almoft all the circulating blood muft, in fuch cafes, be tranfmitted through the veffels of one lung, if the quantity of that fluid be not greatly diminilhed, the pul- monary veffels will become turgid ; a larger effufion of fluids will therefore tdke place into the air-cells and cavity of the cheft, and thus the function of the a6ting lung will be materially impaired. This reafoning illuftrates what experience has already deter- mined, viz. that the prefervation of life in thefe cafes depends on the moft copious blood-letting. The cafe, which I have related, clearly fhews, that the collapfed ftate of the lung affords an opportunity for the wound of its furface to heal; and when this defirable event is accomplilhed, the air which is at that time in the cavity of the thorax, will be fpeedily abforbed, and the ^ lung will again acquire1S5 ON EMPHYSEMA.- acquire its former fize and fituation. But fliould the fun6Hon of it be more imme- diately neceflary, from a difeafed date of that on the oppofite fide, or from otlier circum- ftances, it may be more quickly reftored by exhaufting the air, in the manner dc- fcribed. If the cavity of the cheft contain a quantity of fluids, and it is thought right to extract them, it cannot well be done by varying the poflure of the patient fo as to 1ft them run out of .the opening that has been made : the difficulty with which refpiration is performed, will render fuch an attempt almbfl: infupportable to the patient. It would therefore be better to introduce a hollow bougie, or fome fuch injflrument, into the pofterior part of the thorax, there connect it to the fyringe, and thus extract the contained fluids. I need fcarcely add, that the fame method may be employed with advantage for the extraftion of water from the cavity of the chefl; in hydrothorax. The great advantage of retaining the lung in a collapfed ftate is, if poflible, more ftrik- jngly fhewn wlien thofe bodies have fuffered a greaterlS6 ON EMPHYSEMA, a greater degree of injury than can occur to them from the fradlure of a rib. I have feen cafes in which bullets have paffed through the lungs, near the root of thofe bodies, and where many of the large veffels were confe- qiiently torn, in which the blood has been poured into the cavity of the cheft, has con- denfed the lung by its preffure, and thus fjppreffed the haemorrhage. The injured veffels might, under thefe circumilances, unite; and the blood being let out of th^ thorax, the lung might gradually be re- ftored to its former fundtion. Yet in the cafes which I was a witnefs to, the patients died of inflammation and fever; but the particular nature of the circumftances was unknown during the life of the patient; and of courfe the condudl appropriated to them was not purfued. The fluid contained in the cavity of the thorax had in thefe cafes undergone a degree of putrefadlion previous to the patient’s death j which flate required its difeharge, But fliould this be attempted in other cafes, it becomes very eflential to keep the thoraxON EMPHYSEMA. 187 thorax filled with air, left the lungs fliould become prematurely inflated, the newly- healed part lacerated, the haemorrhage re- newed, or inflammation induced j and the furgeon would be able, I believe, without much contrivance, to regulate the inflation of the lungs, as circumftances feemed to in- dicate. Surgeons ufed formerly to keep canulae in the thorax in thefe cafes, with a defign to give an outlet to fluids; but fuch means might have been beneficial by preferv- ing the lungs collapfed; and they might have been continued from being found ferviceablc, though the manner in which they became fo was unknown.\ vyt ' . . ^ r . . V ■ •,.* ' ■ i ’ • f ■ »»••. • • t i . , j . . • Tj ‘ ... ’ ... - , V.*, • >. 1, • ■?. j'- ' ^., « • To»-,y‘\ » '.Jf ' 6. ( vr/*" ’.7 ' • ■ • ^. f •. ■ - ^ ^ ^ ^ .r . •.^ .r O? , ■■ -r : .:. r:r, Y .. t. ir 7i:f'T.r ^r.h-rrpi ,:i;‘ 'i :ijj; i ; oTrK5 v./rv-'ii? ■ • ■ » ■ '■ > - ': ■ : ^ ; . J . V- . , V 4_ ■ ' . ■ ' '■' f" j. ■ ■ . . . ^ 5"^' .A--: * ;. •>-■• • ’•■•' V > , . • f ’^V§£?3Tti •■ : ■ ■■ , ■ ■ ' •■ t % :h1j ’i- , ’ ■ • ft* I ■ ■ ■ - 4. 13 ' the ■T -::i SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. ON THE OPERATION OF PUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER. Ti yrR. Home, to whom the profeffion is much indebted for many, important improvements in pradlice, has of late pub- lifhed fome cafes of the pundlure of the bladder from the re6tum, which, in opinion, are of the gicateft importance. They not only exhibit that operation as more limple and fuccefsful than perhaps was generally believed, but if the operation be as fuccefsful in the hands of other furgeons, it prefents an eafy mode of relief to a great number of unfortunate patients, who have generally been left to die in mifery. I mean thofe who have ftridlures impaflable by bougies, and who are fo irritable that they cannot bear150 OM THE OPERATION Gf the application of cauftic, on account of the retention of urine which it occafions. In fuch cafes the pun6ture from the re6lum appears moft eligible, becaufe the bladder is contradfed, is in general irritable, and will not perhaps afcend high enough to admit of being pundtured above the pubes. But there are cafes in which the operation by the redlum cannot be performed, and by frequently meeting with thefe I have been compelled to pundlure the bladder above the os pubis, and the event of the operation has been fuch as would have led me to prefer it to any other that I had feen pradfifed. The chief cafes to which I allude are thole of enlarged proftrates, where the catheter has been forced into the fubftance of the gland, and has torn it confiderably; confequently that inllrument enters fo eafily into the falfe 'palTage as to render it almoft impollible to make it take the right one. Indeed in cafes of ftridlure, where falfe palfages have been 'made, and the proftate has been found, the perception of the bladder from the redlum has been fo indiftindl that I have been de- r terredPUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER. I91 terred from pun6turing it; and in one caic I made, a dividon in the perinseum, and having paffed my finger beneath the arch of the os pubis a confiderable way, I could ob- tain no fuch diftindt perception of the blad- der as would authorife me to pufh in a trochar. But I punftured it above the os pubis, and drew off a confiderable quantity of urine. I have therefore been led to con- clude, that in fome diftended bladders, there is a kind of receffion of them from the peri- naeum, and that when they become diftended they afcend proportionally higher into th abdomen. In the greater number of cafes in which I have punctured the bladder above the os pubis, it has been on a fudden call to the hofpital, or fome poor houfcj and I havo had little further concern with the patient than what related to the performance ©f the operation. Sometimes I have been in doubt if there was much urine in the bladder, and this cir- cumftance has deterred me from pundluring, exceptON THE OPERATION Of except In that fituation in which I coulil poflefs an afliirance that I felt the bladder, and could puncture that vifcus : and thefe doubts cauled me in fome inltances to punc- ture the bladder with a lancet; and in fome cafes I have not left any canula in the blad- der, ill confequence of the efcape of the. iV'ine preventing me from readily finding the opening which I had made. Several of tlic patients died, but in every inftance the ope- ration relieved their fufferings ; and I have never feen any effufion of urine into the cellular fubftance, or any other bad confe- quence refult from the operation; nor do I think that fuch events are likely to happen, if it be rightly performed. The death of the patients was fairly to be imputed to the delay of the operation, or the degree of dif- eafe which previoufly exifted in the urinary organs. In feveral patients who recovered, the progrefs of their amendment was fimilar to that which took place in the cafe, which I am about to relate. I did not, however, preferve any detailed account of them, - for, as I have mentioned, the patients could fcarcely be faid to be under my care. I have requefledPuncturing the urinary bladder, ioj tequefted the laft gentleman, with whom I attended a patient under thefe circumftances, to give me a particular account of his cafe, and on the accuracy of his narrative I can place perfeft reliance. This cafe I lhall re- late, in order to have an opportunity of com- menting on the mode of pundluring the bladder above the os pubis. CASE. A gentleman, between fixty and feventy years of age, had a retention of urine from an. enlarged proftate gland, which obliged his furgeon to draw off the urine night and morning. This was done during ten days, when the difficulty of introducing the cathe- ter, which had gradually increafed, became' infurmountable. I was therefore obliged to pundture the bladder, and the only place in which this operation could in the prefent inftance be performed, was above the pubes. I therefore made an incifion about two inches in length through the integuments, and be- tween the mufculi pyramidales abdominis, fo that the lower part of the wound laid bare the top of the fymphifis pubis. On intro- voL. III. o ducing194 ON THE OPERATION OF ducing my finger into this vacancy I felt the diftended bladder. The fenfation produced by preffing againft the diftended bladder is I think fo,peculiar, and fo different from any thing elfe which could occur in this fitua- tion, that if an operator has once felt it, he will not hefitate in deciding that it is the bladder againft which he prefies. The thick- nefs and tenfion of its coats, and its fluid contents are the chief circumftances from which this peculiar feel feems to arife. When I firft began to perform this operation, I was deterred from ufing a trochar by a fear of being mifled by my fenfations. I cautioufly pundlured the bladder with a lancet, defign- ing to introduce a catheter through the wound i but the urine guflied out fo vio- lently, and the bladder became contradfed fo fuddenly, that I could not difeover the wound which I had made j yet under thefe circumftances, the. tirine paffed from the aperture in the bladder, through the external wound, and was not diffufed into the cellular fubftance. Indeed neither obfeiwation nor reafoning would induce me to fuppofe that ' fuch an occurrence is probable, whilft there isPUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER. 195 is a free external opening. The apprehen- fion feems to have arifen from the extenfive diffufion of urine, in cafes where the ure- thra has given way. But in fuch cafes, the urine is actually injedled into the cellular lubftance, and with great force, by the blad- der, in confequence of tlie channel out of the body being clofed up. If the external wound in this operation were to be clofed, and the exit of urine prevented by this means, then it is probable that the urine would be forced to pervade the cellular fub- ftance. It may be afked, if urine is in any way likely, according to the common phrafe, to infinuate itfelf into the furrounding cellu- lar fubftance.'* I fhould think not. The operator fhould be cautious not to make any feparation of the bladder from the back part of the fymphifis pubis, that there fliould not be even a cavity into which the urine might gravitate. He fhould alfo leave the external wound free and open. The firft effedl of the operation will be an inflamma- tion, which will confolidate the furrounding cellular fubftance, and prevent the ready impulfion of urine into it. The ftimulating o 2 qualities196 ON THE OPERATION OF qualities of the urine will augment this in-» flammation, and thereby increafe the effedl. Indeed the ftimulus of the urine often oc- cafions a floughing of the furface of the wound, which however makes no alteration in the general circumfiances of the cafe. In later operations I acquired more confidence, and a belief that I could diflinguifh the bladder from any thing elfe by its feel j and one cafe which occurred tended further to em- bolden me in the performance of it. Being called on a fudden to relieve a patient, who had had his urethra lacerated, and being urged to pundfure the bladder by feveral gentle- men who were prefent, and who were cer- tain that a confiderable quantity of urine was detained: though I could not feel the bladder diftended above the pubes, I con- fented, as the patient was in imminent dan- ger, to perform the operation, and having pundlured the bladder with a trochar, four or five ounces only of urine were difeharged. However a large quantity of urine gradually flowed through a canula which was intro- duced. The patient died, and was exa- mined, when the caufe of this occurrence 31. - became■ PUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER. I97 became apparent. A large cyft made by the protrufion of the internal coat of the bladder, had been formed between the bladder and the reclum, which contained the greateft quantity of the retained urine. The orifice, by which this eyft communicated with the bladder, did not exceed in dimenfions the barrel of a common quill. It alfo appeared that, though the bladder itfelf could not in this cafe be faid to have been diftended, yet the front of it only was wounded by the trochar, and the back part was uninjured. To return from this digrelTion to the ope- ration in the cafe which I was relating: after I had, by an incifion between the pyrami- dales mufcles, enabled myfelf to pafs my finger along the upper ^art of the fympliyfis pubis, fo as to prefs againft the diftended bladder, I introduced a common trochar of the middle fize, in a diredtion obliquely downwards- There is an advantage, as Saba- tier, in his Medicine Operatoire, obferves, in introducing an inftrument in this direction, for it accords with the axis of the bladder, and is therefore not likely to injure the op- 03 pofiteipS ON THE OPERATION OF pofite fide of that organ. When I found tliat the inftrument had penetrated the cavity, I withdrew the ftilet within the canula, and then pufhed the canula obliquely down- wards, fo that about two inches of it were Introduced into the bladder. On withdraw- ing the ftilet of the trochar, the urine gullied out with great force, but I prevented its efcape, by placing the thumb of my left hand againft the mouth of the canula, and then introduced through it in the fame oblique diredlion, a middle fized hollow elaftic catheter, till it met with refiftance by touching the bottom of the bladder. After the urine was difcharged, the canula of the trochar was withdrawn over the elaftic ca- theter, which was left in its fituation, and the end which came out of the wound v/as bent downwards towards the pubes, and at- tached, fo as to be kept motionlefs, to a circular bandage put round the body of the patient. The wound, which was funnel- fhaped, being wide externally, and gradually contradling to the bladder, was covered with linen, fpread over with fpermaceti falve. The urine flowed not only through the catheter.PUNCTURING THE URINARY BLABBER. I99 catheter, but by the fides of it. A flight inflammation occurred round the wound, fuch as would doubtlefs tend to confolidate the furrounding cellular fubflance. The furface of the wound in this cafe did not even flough, at leafl: in any evident degree. Four days after the operation the patient got up, and walked about his chamber, and feeling himfelf comfortable and well, he did not go to bed again till night. At the end «f a week fome few drops of urine came through the urethra, and the quantity thus difeharged daily increafed. At this time as the catheter feemed to be clogged up with mucus, it was withdrawn, and another was introduced with perfedt facility. In about three weeks, as the urine came pretty freely through the urethra, the catheter was with- drawn, and the patient voided his urine by the natural channel. In fix weeks the exter- nal wound was perfedlly healed, and the patient was as well as before the retention of urine took place. Since the publication of the preceding cafe, I have many times performed the fame , o 4 operation,ON THE OPERATION OF 200 operation, and without obferving any thing contradidlory to the ftatement which I have given. I fhall briefly relate the particulars of one of the cafes, CASE. A gentleman, who came from the country, was feized with retention of urine, and the medical man to whom he firfl: applied for relief was unable to draw off that fluid. Before I made any attempt, I firfl intro-, duced a bougie, which, I think, ought in all cafes to fie done, in order to examine the flate of the parts prior to the introdudlion of more rigid and injurious inflruments. It palTed into theproflate, but could not be made to proceed further. A fmall fized catheter much curved, or bent upwards towards the point, was next introduced, which entering the bladder, the urine difcharged. Upon attempt- ing to withdraw the catheter, I found that I could not do it without employing confider- able force, fo firmly was it compreffed by the neck of the bladder. I examined the pro- llate per anum, and did not find that gland materially enlarged, fo that I conclude the difficultyPUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER, HQl difficulty of introducing and withdrawing the inftrument arofe from an enlargement of what Mr. Hunter called the valvular part of the proftate, and Mr. Home defcribes as its third lobe. Being fully aware of the improbability of my being able to introduce a catheter night and morning to draw off the urine, in this cafe; I employed for that purpofe, at my next viht, a flexible var- nifhed catheter, and left it in the bladder. This gave pain to the patient, and did not long remain in the cavity of the bladder; I was therefore under the neceflity of attempting to draw off the urine twice a day with the com- mon catheter. I fucceeded in doing this for feveral days, each time encountering a diffi- culty in introducing the inftrument, which vvasfurmountedby keeping the point of the in- ftrument clofely incontadl with the upper part of the canal; and I continued to experience conflderable difficultv in withdrawins: the inftrument after the efcape of the urine. One morning, however, I was unable to accom- plhh the introdu6Hon of the catheter, and felt myfelf obliged’to pundlure the diftended bladder. The operation was performed as in202 ON THE OPERATION OF in the preceding cafe. A month elapfed be- fore the patient voided any urine by the na- tural channel. The quantity of that fluid which was difcharged through the urethra when he wanted to make water was at firfl; fmall, and gradually increafed in another fortnight to about four ounces. After this evacuation, the plug being removed from the tube inferted at tlie pubes, fix or eight ounces of urine were difcharged from it j it therefore appeared, that the bladder had but very partially regained its pov/er of expelling the urine. When this operation is per- formed, we can know with fome degree of accuracy when the bladder ’ has fully re- gained its powers ; and, confequently, when we ought to remove the tube. The patient was very anxious to return into the country, and I knowing the great impediment that exifted to the expulfion of the urine in his cafe, dared not to remove the tube i nor has it appeared proper to do it flnce that time. He has now kept the tube in his bladder, I believe, more than two years. He has lately complained much of the badnefs of the varnifli with which the tubes are covered; andPUNCTURING THE URINARY BLADDER. 203 and it is greatly to be regretted, that in this country, no one has the art, or takes the trouble, of varnifliing thefe catheters as they are done in France. On the T'ic Douloureux. As the public attention has been of late excited to that painful affeftion of the nerves, called Tic Douloureux, I fhall in the next place relate a cafe of that difeafe, which lately came under my care, becaufe it feems to me to elucidate the nature of the diforder, to demonftratc the degree and kind of advantage which is likely to refult from the divifion of the trunk of the neiwe, and alfo to illuftrate fome circumftances in the anatomy and phyfiology of the nervous fylfern, of which I have not as yet met with any fatisfa6lory explanation. CASE. A lady became gradually affedted with a painful ftate of the integuments under and adjoiningON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. 504- adjoining to the inner edge of the nail of the ring finger of the left hand. No injury to the part was remembered which could have brought on this difeafe. The pain oc- curred at irregular intervals, and was ex- tremely fevere during the time of its con- tinuance, which was for a day or two, when it ufually abated. Accidental flight injuries always occafioned great pain, and frequently brought on thofe paroxyfms, which however occafionally occurred fpontaneoufly, or with- out any evident exciting caufe. In all thefe particulars the difeafe corredlly refembled the Tic Douloureux of the nerves of the face. As the pain increafed the difbrder feemed to- extend up the nerves of the arm. After the patient had endured this painful affec- tion for feven years, flie fubmitted to have the fkin, which was tlie original feat of the diforder, burned with caufiic. This appli- cation gave her intenfe pain, and on tfie healing of the wound flie found her fuffer- ings rather augmented than diminifhed by this experiment. After four more years of furffering fhe confulted.me, when the circum- fiances of the cafe were fuch as to render anON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. Soj ail operation indifpenfably neceffary. The pain of the part was intolerable, and it extended all up the nerves of the arm; and this general pain was fo conftant during the night, as to deprive the patient of red. The miifcles of the back of the neck were occa- fionally affedfed. with fpafms. The integu- ments of the affedfed arm were much hotter than thofe of the oppofite fide, and fometimes the temperature was fo increafed as to caufe a burning fenfation in them. Under thefe circumftances, I did not helitate to divide the nerve of the finger, from which all this diforder feemed to originate. I laid it bare by a longitudinal incifion of about three quarters of an inch in length, from the fecond joint of the finger, and divided it oppofite to that joint,' by a curved fliarp pointed bif- toury which was conveyed under it. I then took hold of the nerve with a pair of forceps, and refledfing it downwards, I removed a portion of it half an inch in length, that the pofiibility of a quick re-union might be prevented. The wound was brought toge- ther by flicking plafter, and it united by adljefion: but the upper part of the wound, oppofiteZo6 ON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. oppofite to the upper end of the nefve, became (lightly inflamed, and was very pain- ful ; however the appearance of inflamma- tion gradually went off in the courfe of three weeks. After the operation I pinched the originally affedled integuments (harply with my nails, without caufmg any fenfation^ but if in fo doing I moved the finger, then pain was felt. I found it difficult to con- vince the patient that the (kin at that part was adlually devoid of fenfation, for fhe (fill continued to feel fimilar fenfations to thofe which formerly occurred, though in a much diminifhed degree : but (he became gradually as perfedlly convinced as any medical man could be, that thefe fenfations arofe from the irritated (fate of the end of the nerve, above the place where it was divided. The pain- ful afteftion of the neiwes of the arm (till continued, though confiderably lelTened in violence; however, it was fufficiently fevere to make the patient apprehend that little per* manent benefit would arife from the opera- tion. This pain continued occafionally about four months, with varying degrees of feve- rity, but the temperature of the (kin was not r hotterON THE TIC DOULOUREUXir. 207 hotterithan that of the oppofite fide, as it had been before the operation. At the expi- ratioh of three months, the patient afcer- tained that the integuments at the end of the finger a6tually felt when any thing was ap- plied to them, and this proved a new fource of alarm. More than nine months have now elapfed fince the performance of the ope- ration, and the general pains in the nerves have become very trivial j but the fenfation of the integuments at the end of the finger has during that time gradually increafed, and the Ikin has now its natural fenfibility, fb as accurately to diftinguifli the tangible proper- ties of any body applied to it. If alfo tlie originally affecled part be comprelTed (lightly, painful fenfations refembling thofe which formerly occurred take place. The obfervations of Dr. Darwin relative to ocular Spectra, and the experiments of Mr. Home on the contra6fion of divided nerves (contained in tlie Croonian Ledture, inferted in the Philofophical Tranfadtions for the year 1801) have given a kind of demoii- ftration that there is a fubtile and mobile matterdo8‘ ON the Tic DOtTLOtfilEUX. matter fuperadded to the vdfible fabric ot nerves, and fanction the ufe of the yet noVel terms of the irritability and irritable adtions of nerves, and I fhall therefore employ them in the few fubfequent remarks which 1 have to offer. / . . T'he cafe above related appeared to me tcf merit pablication, becaufe I believe it is not a common occurrence for the tic douloureux to happen any where but in the face. In the inftances related by Mr. Home iiihisCroonian ledlure, the difeafe was the effedt of an injuiy done to the tliumb 5 and it is reafpnable to fuppofe that it would not have taken place without a predifpofition to it in the conffitu- tion of the patients. It is alfo not unfair to conclude that the difeafe thus occafioned was of a more general nature, and lefs con- fined to the extreme branches of the nerves, and therefore lefs fufceptible of cure by an operation. The cafe, which I have related fhews, as indeed miglit have been concluded , a priori, that though the fource of the irri- table ftate of the nerves in the tic douloureux may be cut off by an operation, yet that the generalON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. 209 general irritable a6tions of thofe organs, which had been excited, and had continued for a long time, would not immediately ceafe, though they might, as happened in this iiuftance, gradually fubfide. The fpeedy return of fenfation, which is both accurate and acute in the prefent cafe, muft furely be deemed a curious circum- ftance. It cannot be attributed to a reunion of the divided nerve, fince fo large a portion of it was removed j for I believe in fimple divifions of the nerves by accident, fenfation is flow in returning. It muft, I think, be admitted, that fenfation in the prefent in- ftance took place through the medium of the communicating branches of thofe or- gans, and probably its fpeedy renovation was the effeft of their unufually adtive or irri- table ftate. Nerves ftrikingly refemble arteries in their modes of communication j fometimes they conjoin even by confiderable branches, fuch as muft be manifeft, in common diffedlions; • but they communicate in furprizing numbers VOL. III. P bv210 ON THE TIC DOULOUREUX, by their minute ramifications. This circiim- ftance is not perhaps fo familiarly known to profeffional men, fince it cannot be perceived unlefs in the courfe of a very minute dilTec- tion, and to underftand how numerous thefe communications are, the reprefentations given by the German authors, of their delicate and laborious difle61:ions, may be advantageoufly confulted The communications of nerves feem alfo not to have excited much attention amongft phyfiologifts j at leaft I have not met with any probable conje6lure concerning their ufe. I fiiall therefore take the liberty of mention- ing as briefly as polfible, what has occurred to me on that fubje6t. The opinions of Mr. Hunter refpe6ling a fubtile matter inhering in the brain and nerves, and diffufed throughout the body, are, I believe, generally admitted, though varioufly expreffed. Now if the brain and * See Meckel’s Reprefentation of the Nerves of the Face,, or Frotfcher’s of the Cervical Nerves, in Ludwig’s Opera Minora, or Walther’s Plates. nervesON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. 2II nerves be fuppofed in thofe animals who pof- fefs them, to be the chief if not the foie or- gans for the preparation of this fubtile mat- ter, then it appears as neceffary that the nerves fliould communicate, as that the arte- ries fhould do fo. For if the continuity of the taink of either of thefe organs were de- ftroyed, the parts, which its branches fupply, would perifh were it not for their communi- cation with the minute branches of other adjacent trunks. It is probable that one of the advantages derived from important organs being fupplied from plexufes of nerves is, as has been fuggefted by Soemmerring, that fuch elTential organs fliould never want that animation and influence, which they derive from the nerves, even fliould cafual obftrudlion take place in fome of the trunks leading to fuch a plexus. But parts lefs eflential to life, equally require that fuch interruption of the nervous energy fliould be guarded againfl:. Have we not a plexus formed in the axilla, prior to the diftribution of nerves, to the upper extremities ? do not the facral nerves form a plexus, in order to form the ifchiadic or pofterior crural nerve ? p 2 andON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. 212 and' may not the fame circumftance be af- firmed with refpeft to the anterior crural, and obturator nerves, fmce they arife from the complicated union of the lumbar nerves, with a branch of the firft facral nerve? The reticular communications of the minute nerves may not only ferve the purpofe which has been fuggefted, but, as appears from the prefent cafe, the aftions which take place in the extremities of the nerves may, by them, be propagated to the fenforium, and thus produce fenfation. Whether, in the prefent inftance, the original painful a6Uons of the extremities of the nerves may again recur, and be continued throughout the com- municating branches to the fenforium, the future progrefs of the cafe will determine. The Lady, whofe cafe I have related, died about four years after the operation, of dif- order of the digeftive organs, to which fhe was habitually fubje6l. Indeed, from what I have fince feen of cafes of Tic Douloureux, I am induced to believe, that this diforder is as much conftitntional as either Gout or Rheu- matifm. I have known patients afflicted with1 I ON THE TIC DOULOUREUX. SIJ with it get well, either fpontaneoiifly, or in confequence of the adminiftration of medi- cines which were likely to relieve or coun- teradt nervous irritability. On the Removal of loofe Subjlaiices from the Knee Joint. I fliall next relate a cafe in which fome of thofe loofe fubftances that are frequently found in the knee-joint were removed by an operation; becaufe I think the cafe contains many interefling particulars, and becaufe it will afford me an opportunity of offering a few obfervations on the neceflity and mode of performing fuch an operation. Mr. Hey has of late recommended a bandage to keep thefe bodies ffationary, and has related feveral inftances of its efficacy, and of courfe of its preventing the neceffity of undertaking a feiious and uncertain operation. When loofe fubftances exift in the knee-joint, and are lodged on either fide of the patella,' they produce but little inconvenience y but when P 3 they6N THE REMOVAL Of &I4 I they flip under the ligament of the patella, and become interpofed between the condyles of the os femoris and the tibia, they impede ' progreflion, and caufe pain, and fo much injury as to bring on inflammation in the joint. If the extenfor tendons, the patella and its ligament, can, by Mr. Key’s ban- dage, be kept ftcadily prefled againfl: the cor- refponding parts of the joint, then thefe bodies mufl: remain ftationary on one or other fide of the patella, and the patient will be exempted from the inconvenience and in- jury which their motion in the joint occa- flons. Under thefe circumftances the necef- flty for an operation is obviated j but in the cafe which I am about to relate the bandage was of no avail, for reafons which will ap- pear in the relation. It is not improbable alfo that though thefe bodies may occafion much irritation at firfl:, yet that the joint becoming accuftomed to their Aim ulus may afterwards be lefs aftefted by their prefence, which circumftance ought to be adverted to and afcertained before- an operation be under- taken. CASESUBSTANCES FROM THE KNEE, 215 , CASE. A man, about forty years of age, having fallen from a ladder, and injured his knee, fuffered afterwards a good deal from inflam- mation in the joint. The joint became much better, but never perfedtly recovered ; and after a year had elapfed he flipped in walking, and again injured his knee. From this time he became fenfible of the prefence of two moveable bodies in the joint, which incommoded him confiderably. They fre- quently, in walking, got between the con- dyles of the os femoris, and the crucial liga- ments, giving him great pain at the time, and produced heat and inflammation of the knee afterwards. He bore this inconveni- ence for fevcral years, till at length, coming to London, he refolved to fubmit to the operation for their removal if it were re- commended. When I faw him there was a confiderable quantity of fynovia in the joint, the knee was hotter than that of the oppofite limb, and in this ftate he faid it ufually was. There was no difficulty in bringing the two loofe fubflances to the P4 inner216 ON THE REMOVAL OF inner fide of the joint and it required only to put that part in a depending poiition, and thofe bodies defcended by their gravity through the fluid, and were eaflly fixed in the fituation to which they had fallen. I could bring them on the inner furface of the internal condyle of the os femoris, which is of confiderable extent, and by placing the points of my finger fo as to defcribe a por- tion of a circle, I could prevent them from pafling again into the cavity of the joint al- though the limb might be moved, and the patient prefs firmly againfi: them with his finger, as if he meant to pufli them into the joint. Yet when my fingers, which thus confined them were removed, the flighted: touch caufed them to difappear, and to glide with velocity into the general cavity of the joint. This is the fituation, and the manner in which I think thefe bodies can be mofl: con- veniently and certainly fixed. The inner furface of the internal condyle of the-os fe- moris prefents an extenfive and nearly plain furface, which terminates in front and at its upperSUBSTANCES FROM THE KNEE. 217 upper part by an edge which forms a portion of a circle. If the points of the finger be firmly prefled upon this edge fo as to form a kind of line. of circumvallation round thefe t bodies, they cannot pafs into the joint in this direflion, nor can they recede in any other, on account of the tenfe ftate of the internal lateral ligament. Here thefe fubftances are near the furface, and may be diftindtly felt; and there is nothing to be divided in order to expofe them, but the integuments, fafeia, and the capfule of the joint. Mr. Cruik- fhank fays, that Mr. Hunter preferred re- moving thefe loofe bodies at the upper part of the joint, as there, the bag which con- tains the fynovia has lefs of the nature of a capfule. Mr. Ford, in a cafe which required, the operation (and which is related in the Medical Obfervations and Inquiries), ex- tradled the fubftance on the outer edge of the patella j and if the fubftance is large, it may undoubtedly be extradfed in this fitua- tion. In the cafe, which I am going to re- late, it would have been imnoflible to fix the 1 loofe fuhftances in any other fituation than that which I have deferibed, and in my opinionSI8 ON THE REMOVAL OF opinion that fituation muft in moft cafes be preferable to any other, for the re^fons which I have mentioned. I did not hefitate to undertake the removal of the bodies in the prefent cafe, as they could be fo fecurely fixed. For the patient had tried bandages without any advantage, which perhaps was owing to the quantity of fluid in the joint preventing them from a6l- ing in the manner mentioned above. His fufferings were very confiderable, and the neceflary reftridlion in exercife extremely in- convenient. I thought it right to reduce the inflammation of the joint as much as poflible, prior to the operation, and with this view diredled the application of leeches, and of linen kept conflantly damp with Goulard’s wafli: fome aperient medicine was alfo given. By thefe means, in the courfe of three days, all the fluid was removed from the joint, and it was as cool, and free from pain and inflammation as the other kneej but when I endeavoured to get thefe bodies into the fituations in which I had formerly fixed them, I found all my eflbrts were in vain. ThereSUBSTAKCES FROM THE KNEE. 219 There was no fluid for them to defcend through, and though one of them could be got into the fituation which we wiflied, we could not, after trying nearly an hour and an half, fucceed in getting both of then; ■upon the condyle of the os femoris. I was therefore obliged to let the patient walk about a little, that fome more fluid might be effufed into the joint, and then I could bring them both'into the fame fituation, and fix them as readily as before. The operation was done in the following manner. Sir Charles Blicke, who aflifted me, prefled the integuments of the knee gently towards the internal condyle, and then applied his finger in the manner I have deferibed, round the circular edge of the bone. I alfo drew the integuments gently towards the inner ham-ftring, and divided them longitudinally, immediately over the loofe fubftance, to the extent of an inch and an half. This withdrawing of the integu- ments from their natural fituation -w^as de- figned to prevent a diredt correfpondence in the fituation of the external wound, and that ofON THE REMOVAL OF 220 of the capfule of the joint; for when the inte- guments were fuffered to regain their natural pofition, the wound in them was nearer to the patella, than the wound which was made in the capfule. The fal'cia which covers the joint being expofed by the divilion of the in- teguments, it was divided in a firnilar direc- tion, and nearly to the fame extent. The capfule was now laid bare, and I gently divided it to the extent of half an inch, where it covered one of the hard fubftances, which fuddenly flipped through the opening, and by preffing gently upon the other, it alfo came through at the fame part. The bodies, which were thus removed, were about three quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch in breadth. They .had a highly po- liflred furface, and were hard like cartilage. The fluid contained in the joint was preffed towards the wound, and about two ounces of fynovia were difcharged. I then drew the wound of the integument gently towards the patella, prefled the two Tides together, and clofed it accurately with flicking plafter, en- joining the patient to keep the limb as free from motion as poffible. NoSUBSTANCES FROM THE KNEE. t2t No inflammation took place in the knee, cither on that day, or the following ; but on the fecond night after the operation the pa- tient fuffered a good deal of pain, and in the morning the joint felt hot, and was diitended with fluid as it had been before the operation. I now removed the dreflings, and found the wound was clofed; but I felt very apprehen- five leff, the inflammation of the joint con- tinuing, the colledlion of fluid fliould alfo increafe, and by diftending the capfule, caufe the wound to open. Having already feen in this cafe the beneficial effects of evaporating waflies, which by diminifhing the heat of a part check its tendency to inflammation, I was defirous of re-applying them. In order to prevent thefe applications from loofening the Iticking-plafter, and caufing the expofure of the wound, I made ufe of an expedient, which I have frequently employed, and which from its utility I think deferves to be mentioned. After having fupported the fides of the wound in their fituation by adhefive pi afters as at firft, I put over them a piece of linen which extended beyond them in every diredlion. This linen was made to 9 adhere122 ON THE REMOVAL OF 7 - patient adhere to the furrounding fl^in, by fmearlng over the edge with a folution of fealing-wax in alcohol, and afterwards varnilhing the linen over with the fame folution. The al- cohol having evaporated, and the fealing- wax remaining, no liquid could penetrate and detach the fticking-plafter. This is the fame varnifh with which fonie parts of elec- trical machines are coated, and its power of remaining unaffedfed by moifture and mode- rate warmth is well known. Folded linen kept damp with laudanum and water was now applied, in the propor- tion of an ounce of the former to a quart of the latter. This wafh I prefer, for thepur- pofe above mentioned, to Goulard’s wafli j for the precipitated powder contained in the lat- ter is apt to fill the interflices of the linen, and prevent its imbibing the wafli, fo that the requifite evaporation does not go on. Thefe applications quickly diminifhed the heat of the knee, and the quantity of fluid contained in the joint fpeedily decreafed.. The wound was daily dreffed, and in a week was firmly healed i and in a fortnight theSUBSTANCES FROM THE KNEE. 223 patient might be faid to be well. He has fince the operation walked as much as he was accuftomed to do, and has not found the leaft inconvenience. I have fince the publication of the pre- ceding cafe, fcen one of the fame kind, fo curious on account of the number of loofe bodies contained in the capfule of the knee- joint, that it feems to deferve being men- tioned. I do not exaggerate, when I fay, they muft much exceed a hundred in num- ber, and feel like fhot of various fizes, dif- tending the capfule on either fide of the patella. There is no fluid in the joint, nor do they prevent the patient from taking or- dinary exercife. 4ON THE TREATMENT OF a 24 On the Ti^eatment of one Species of the Naevi Materni. I fliall relate two cafes, and fay a few words on the treatment of this complaint, which is a congenital deformity, confiiding of a cluller of enlarged velfels, filled, and occafionally diftended by the influx of blood from numerous furrounding arteries. The ' deformity to which I allude is fo well known, and fo frequent an occurrence, as to pre- clude the neceffity of any defcription. Mr. John Bell has of late propofed an ingenious theory of its formation, and has denominated it an aneuryfmal enlargement of the velfels, in confequence of their anaftomofes. There can be no doubt that the repletion, diften- tion, and confequent enlargement of the dilated velfels depends upon a kind of in- flammatory acflion of the furrounding arte- ries ; for, if that be wanting, the mark ceafes to enlarge, and if prefent, it increafes in fize in proportion to the degree of inflam- matory adlion. In many cafes thefe marks having increafed to a certain degree, ceafe toTHE "SJEVI MATERNI^ 225 to enlarge; they then remain flationary, or gradually diminifh, till they almofl difap- pear. This occurrence is not fo frequent as to induce furgeons to expect fuch an event, or to prohibit, in confequence of fuch ex- pedlation, their removal. For, if they con- tinue to enlarge, the operation mufl be commenfurat to their fize. The confe- quences of their burfting are alarming and vexatious. It is not, however, my intention to fpeak of thefe affedlions in general, but only to flate what, perhaps, may in fome inflances be done with fuccefs, when the re- moval of the unnatural flrudlure cannot be accompliflied. For this preternatural en- largement of velTeis is not always cutaneous. I have feen it occupying the whole fubflance of the cheek, neither appearing beneath the Ikin nor the membrane of the mouth; I have met with it in the orbit of the eye, and have found it covering the whole of an extre- mity, or nearly one half of the trunk of the body. If any means can be purfued, under fuch circumflances, to cheek the progrefs of the complaint, they furely deferve attention. I was lately fo fortunate as to fucceed in VOL. III. 0^ fuchsa6 ON THE TREATMENT OF fuch endeavours, in cafes, the relation of which is my chief objeft at prefent. CASE. A child about two months old was brought to St. Bartholomew’s hofpital, with this un- natural enlargement of velfels, diftributed every where beneath the fore-arm, from the wrift to the elbow. In a Ihort time it had fwollen to that degree, that the cir cumference of the affe6led fore-arm was twice the fize of the other. The velfels were large and con- torted j and to give the reader an idea of their appearance, I may mention that the child’s mother affirmed that they refcmbled the en- trails of a pig, with which fhe had either been frightened or difgufted during her pregnancy. The Ikin was of a dulky hue, and had not its natural fmoothnefs of furface. The heat of this fore arm was much greater than that of the correfponding found one. Prelfurc forced the blood out of the velfels, and for the time diminilhed the bulk of the limb, and made it of a paler colour. The child’s mother lives at Turnham Green, where Mr, Graham, an ingenious furgeon, whoTHE n;evi materni. aa/ 5fvas for a long time a ftudent at St. Bar- tholomew’s Holpital, alfo relides. I requefted this gentleman to take charge of the cafe, and try the effedl of the following plan of treatment, which it feemed to me right to inftitute. Firft, I was defirous of afcertaim* ing whether a permanent and equal preffure would not prevent the diftenhon and confe- quent enlargement of the turgid veflels; fecondly, whether reducing the temperature of the limb would not diminifh the inflam- matory a61;ion, upon which their repletion feemed to depend. Thefe two intentions ad- mitted of being readily accompliflied. A many-tailed bandage of flicking plafler feemed adequate to effe6l the firfl, and wet- ting the limb with water the latter. Thefe meafures were judicioufly carried into effedl by Mr. Graham ; the preflure was firfl made ilightly, and afterwards more forcibly, as the part feemed to bear it without inconvenience. A roller was applied over the plafler, and kept wet, if the limb felt hotter than na- tural, fo as to regulat? its temperature. The ■ fuccefs of thefe meafures exceeded our mofi; ianguine expedlations. The fize of the limb 9^2 gradually2a8 ON THE TREATMENT OF gradually diminiflied, and its temperature became natural. After fix months, Mr. Gra-* ham removed the bandages, which it was^ not neceffary to continue any longer. The limb was in fome degree waited, from pref- fure and difufe, but it foon gradually re- acquired its natural fize. After the bandages had been left off for a month, I faw the child. The Ikin was pale, and had a llightly Ihriveiled appearance. The contorted veffels felt like folid chords interpofed between it and the fafcia of the fore-arm. CASE. A child had this unnatural Hate of the veffels in the orbit of the eye. They gra- dually increafed in magnitude, and extended themfelves into the upper eye-lid, fo as to keep it permanently doled. The cluftered veffels alfo projeded out of the orbit, at the upper part, and made the integuments pro- trude, forming a tumour as large as a wal- nut. Of courfe, the removal of this dileafe did not appear pradicable. I was confulted on this cafe by Mr. Hurlock, to whom I re- lated the fuccefs of the former experiment. PreffureTHE N-®VI MATERNI. . 229 Preffure to any extent was here evidently impoffible: but the abftradlion of heat, and confequent diminution of inflammatory ac- tion might be attempted. I recommended that folded linen, wet with rofe water, fa- turated with alum, fhould be bound on to the projedled part, and kept conftantly damp. Under this treatment the dilbrder as regularly receded as it had before in- creafed. After about three months it had gradually funk within the orbit, and the child could open its eye. Shortly afterwards all medical treatment was difcontinued, and no appearance of this unnatural ftrudftire remains. A third cafe of a very extenfive mark of this defcription, covering the back and flioul- der, got well, as I am informed, by the fame treatment. I have not, however, been able to learn the particulars. It appears to me probable, from the foregoing cafes, that if the preternakiral diftention of the velTels could be prevented, the blood v/ould coagu- late in them j and thus this unnatural con- textureS3d ON THE TREATMENT, &C. texture of veffels, being rendered impervious, might become obliterated. Since the publication of thcfe cafes, which is more than four years ago, I have feen many inftances of fuch afFe6lions, and they have ceafed to grow, and afterwards Ihrunk, and been no longer objedls of any confe- quence when treated in the manner that I have deferibed. I have only in one cafe been called upon to perform an opera- tion for the removal of the fwelling, which had attained'' a very eonfiderable magnitude before I was confulted refpedting its treat- ment.[ 23> ] On Hemorrhoidal Difeafes, i Mr. Hey of Leeds, in his highly valuable Oblervations, delcribes his mode of treat- ment of the procidentia ani, and that chap- ter of his work appears to me to deferve particular praife, becaufe I have not found the fame treatment recommended by other writers; and becaufe, from tlie accounts of the patients tliemfelves, it has relieved them from very great inconvenience and fuffer- ing. Wifhing to corroborate the ftatement there given, and to add my mite of obferva- tion on the practice that is beft adapted, for the relief of fuch difeafes, I may mention, m the firft place, that my attention to this fubje6t was particularly excited, even during my apprenticefliip to furgery, from witnef- j(ing the fufferings of thofe who underwent what I may call the natural cure of piles. When thefe organifed bodies are large and numerous, they'impede the expullion of tho faeces, and the ftraining confcquent to this impediment everts tlie bowel. When, at length,232 ON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES, length the patient is unable to reftore the parts to their natural fituation, the piles mor- tify and drop^ off, and then the bowel retires, leaving the patient confiderably relieved from the difficulty and pain attendant on the ex- pulfion of the faeces. The editor of Mr. Pott’s work fays, that Mr. Pott was remark- ably fuccefsful in removing haemorrhoidal ex- crefcences, by ligature * ; in fome cafes fuch means may doubtlefs be proper j yet it has appeared to me, that tying haemorrhoidal excrefcences is produdlive of all that tem- porary diftrefs which is obfervable in what I have terrned their natural cure; and as there is a general diforder in the fundfions of the alimentary canal in all fuch cafes, the irri- tation occafioned by the ligature aggravates this habitual diforder, and produces fome- times very alarming fymptoms. \ With thefe fadts before me, I was led to examine the ftrudlure of thofe piles which had been removed by a ligature, or which I * See Sir James Earl’s edition of Mr. Pott’s Works vol. iii. accidentallyON HjEMORRHOIDAL diseases. 233 accidentally met with in the dead fubjedt; and I found them to be merely flelhy fub- ftances, polTefiing no veffels of confiderablc fize, nor fuch as Ihould deter us from cut- ting the excrefcences away. It is now twenty years fince I firft began to remove them freely with the knife or fcilFars, and I have never met with any circumftance to deter me, whilft the relief of fuffering, which the operation lias afforded to. fome, and the fcarcely to be expe6led, and complete cure which it has effe6led in many, has been highly gratifying. Piles have been fuppofed to be owing to a dilatation of the haemor- rhoidal veins, and that thefe veins are fome- times enlarged, is evident from anatomical examination, and from cafes which occalion- # ally occur in pra6fice. In a recent attack of an haemorrhoidal affe6fion, fomething occa- fionally protrudes from the anus, which when pun61;ured emits a continued ftream of blood, as a vein does when opened. When the blood ceafes to flow the protruding part fhould be replaced, and maintained in its natural fituation. * 7 The234 ON HiEMORRHOlDAL DISEASES. The origin and formation of internal piles, ISy I think, limilar to thofe which are exter- nal. When from irritation about the rec- tum, an external pile forms, a fwelling fud- denly occurs beneath the thin fkin, near the verge of the anus, and the part is heated and painful. If the fkin be divided, the fwelling is found to be caufed by effufed blood j and if the clot be removed, there is no ftream of blood emitted as from a vein. If the wound be fmall, blood again colledfs beneath the fkin, and the fwelling is repro- duced. If the bowels be regulated, fo that the ftate of irritation, which is the caufe of thefe produdlions, be mitigated or removed, and if the flightly painful and heated fwell- ing be cooled by evaporating walhes, the effufed blood is frequently abforbed, and the diftended fkin appears loofe and pendulous. On the contrary, if the irritation continues from there being fome permanent difeafe on the infide of the bowel, then the effufed blood becomes an organized fubftance, and a permanent external pile is formed. The orifice of the anus is often furrounded by tumours of this kind, which, however, do notON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES.' 235 not require to be removed, and are only in- dicative of internal irritation. In like man- ner blood is effufed beneath the bowel juft above the fphindler, and forms an internal pile. If it be divided, coagulated blood may be re- moved from beneath it, with the fame events as occur in external piles. The effufed blood is Tometimes abforbed, and the pile difappears; but, more generally, it becomes an organized fubftance, and increafmg in bulk, whilft others alfo form, they are pro- ductive of thole inconveniences that have been reprefented. « Though the everfion of the bowel may, in many cafes, be attributed to the efforts made to overcome the mechanical refiftance, which thefe tumours oppofe to the expulfion of the faeces; yet the everfion is not, in general, to be folely attributed to this caufe. It arifes alfo from an irritable and ftriving action of the bowel, which produces a kind of intuffufeeption. Thus plaits of the bowel often defeend in an irritable aCtion of the part during the expulfion of the faeces. I have known many cafes of the following defeription. A perfon having feme diforder of23^ ON HJEMORRHOIDAL DISEASBS. of the bowels, and having an urgent call to void the feces, has fuffered afterwards great pain for a number of hours. The next eva^ cuation has been attended with limilar confe- quences, and thus the patients have con- tinued for a confiderable time, ignorant of the caufe of their fufferings. On intro- ducing the finger, I have difcindUy felt, and fairly replaced a fold of the bowel, and the patient has been immediately relieved from all uneafinefs; and by repeating the fame a6l, when required, and keeping the bowels regular by a mixture of caftor oil and mucilage, with cinnamon water, they have fuffered no uneafinefs fubfequent to the alvine difcharges, and in a fhort time this faulty a6lion of the bowel has entirely ceafed. But if a patient remains ignorant of the caufe of his fufferings, and does not adopt this mode of relieving them, the fold of the bowel becomes irritated and thickened by the preffure of the fphiii6ler mufcle; it enlarges and becomes in form adapted to this unna- tural fituation, and thus we often meet with folds of the bowel forming hjemorrhoidal tumours. When a pile, or any hasmorrhoi- dalON Hi^lMORRHOlDAL DISEASES. I37 dal tumour becomes inflamed and fwollen, it has a tendency to draw down more of the bowel, and increafe the difeafe. The everfion of the bowel thus produced from haemorrhoidal affeftions, mufl: be con- fidered as a different cafe from that procc- dentia or prolapfus ani, which takes place in- dependently of fuch affeftions, and it is to the treatment of the former only that this paper relates. In the firff volume of thefe obfervations, I have mentioned, that to me, all kinds of irritation inducing local difeales in the lower parts of the bowel, appear to be the effe6ts of a general diforder in the fun6lions of the alimentary canal; and that the correction of the general affe6tion is effential to the cure of the local difeafe. If the bowels can be got to regularly carry down and difeharge the re- fldue of the food once in twenty-four hours, the {training from coftivenefs, and that irrit- able and repeated a6lion attendant on purg- ing, both of which muff be injurious to the local difeafe, will ceafe to aggravate it. The patient43S ON'HJEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES. 12 regularly patient fhould bathe and anoint the pro- truded ^parts with ointment, and careRilly replace them above the gripe of the fphin6ler. Under thefe circumftances haemorhoidal tu* mours, and the procidentia ani often become of fo little inconvenience, as not to induce a patient to wifh for a more radical relief. But, if from the magnitude or number of thele hasmorrhoidal tumours, fuch an op- polition fliould be created to the expullion of the faeces, that the bowel is forced down at every attempt to difcharge them; if from the inflamed and ulcerated ftate of haemorrhoidal tumours, they keep up an irritable a6lion of the parts tending to maintain and aggravate the difeafe, then an operation feems to be required. I fliall now defcribe, in the briefefl: manner poflible, the treatment and mode of operating which I have found mofl: fuccefsful in thefe difeafes. Firfl:, it feems eflential, prior to undertaking any operation, to get the bowels into the habit of regularly evacuating the re- fufe matter of the food daily, and the liverON H25MORRHOIDAL DISEASES. regularly fecreting a due proportion of heal- thy bile, adly. The bowels ought to be perfe6lly cleared before the operation; and this may be accompliflied, by giving to tlie patient fuch a dofe of medicine as has been found, by experience, to be likely to anfwer this purpofe without inducing a continuance of irritation and purging. The bowel being everted to the utmoft by the efforts ufed in evacuating tlie faeces, and the parts cleanfed by bathing with tepid water, the piles fliould be taken hold of by a double hook, of a breadth correfponding to the length of the pile, and when drawn upwards from the bowel, it may be removed by a pair of feiffars. A protruded and thickened plait of the bowel may be feized in the fame wayj but I think it is better to ufe the biftoury in removing it, becaufe the depth to which the feiffars may cut is uncertain. The incifion made by the knife refembles two curved lines joined at each extremity. The length of the incifion fhould, both for the removal of piles and that of plaits in the bowel, be longi- tudinal, in the direction of the bowel. If,240 ON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES- If, therefore, there be a tranfverfe fold of the bowel of confiderable extent, I think it bed: to take away two elliptical portions in the long axis of the redlum, rather than at- tempt more completely to remove it by a ■wound made in another direction. The haemorrhoidal tumours being re- moved, the wounds fhould be fuffered to bleed as long as they are difpofed to do fo, and afterwards the parts fhould be com- pletely replated by means of the finger, pre- vioufly anointed. As irritation is a princi- pal caufe of haemorrhage from the fmall vefiels, and a^ that is. likely to be occafioned by any part of the bowel being lodged within the gripe of the fphincler, and compreffed by that mufcle, this' part of the operation fhould be particularly attended to. The patient fliould now be fpeedily placed in an horizontal pofition, the nates fliould be ex^ pofed, and the parts furrounding the anus fhould be frequently bathed with cold water, to check inflammation and confequent hs- , morrhage. FrequentlyON HuEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES.i 24! Frequently from the apprehsnfion of the vexation and trouble of a fubfequent he- morrhage, the furgeon is defirous, after an ope- ration, of tying every veflel that could pof- fibly pour forth blood; yet after the patient is put to bed, and becomes warm, particularly if there be any circumftance caufing local irritation in the wounded'parts, hemorrhage even to a confiderable degree enfues. The wound is opened and bathed, and often no veflel is difeovered bleeding, or requiring a ligature. Diminilhing the temperature of parts is one of the mod: potent means which we pod'efs of lelfening inflammatory adfion, and this feems to be beft accomplifhed by the continual evaporation which is going on when parts are frequently wetted. Formerly I met with much trouble from hsernorrhage, particularly on account' of the blood effufed into the redtum, creating an uncontroulable propenfity to difeharge it per anum j and in this a6t the wounded parts became .again protruded and injured. Since, however, I adopted the mode of treatment which 1 have deferibed, I have witnefTed no inconvenience of this kind,. In general, the patients feel VOL. III. R very24-2 ON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES. very comfortable, and the anus feems as if there were no difeafe. When the parts have been for fome time tranquil, and the ritk of haemorrhage has ceafed, the parts need no longer to be bathed or expofed. I The patient fliould be reftridfed in his diet: the food diould be of the moft nutritive quality, and fuch as is likely to leave the ieaft refidue, but the quantity fliould be as fmall as poffible, becaufe it is an object to keep the rcftoj'ed parts undifturbed for as long a time as pollible. If the opening me- dkine, which haa been given with a view to dear the bowels, before the operation, fhould be likely to affed: them aftenvards, fbme opium may be adminiftered to prevent it. Under thefe circumftances, I have known patients lie for eight or ten days undifturbed, and during' that time the wounds, it is pro- bable, had nearly, if not entirely, healed, as the fubfequent difeharges from the bowels were effeded without haemorrhage, or the defcent of any part. However, as thefe pa^ tients have a difordered Itate of the digeftivc organs.ON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES, 243' organs, fenfations feemingly requiring fome alvine dilcharges for their relief, will indue® us to give fome opening medicine long before that period. Experience in the cafe of our patient fliould have previoufly taught us, by what dofe of medicine we might calculate, with fome degree of certainty, to procure one fufficient and lax motion, which fhould be parted with by the patient with as little effort as poflible. It is better that the pa- tient fliould not attempt to evacuate tlte con- tents of his bowels till his fenfations become urgent. When a fufficient difeharge has taken place, if any thing has defcended,’dt ought to be carefully replaced as it was after the operation. A fmall dofe of laudanum may be given to flop any further effect from the purgative medicine. Now, though fuch ope- rations, conduced on the plan which' I have deferibed, have been productive of the bene- ficial effects which I have reprefented in the beginning, it is wrong to promife too much, to patients in general, becaufe the irritable and difordered ftate of the digeftive organs, which is habitual, and which has produced the difeafe may keep up a difor- R 2 dered2,44 ON HEMORRHOIDAL DISEASES^ dered ftate of re6lum afterwards, and occa- fion new difeafes to form of the fame nature. i ^ ' I ' V. * '' J f * ' ! Oil Fijlula in the Perineeum. \ -..Towards the conclufion of the fecond part or volume of'thefe obfervations, when fpeaking of the effects of difeafes of the urethra, I had defigned to infert a chapter explanatory of fome drcumflances relative to thofe abfcelTes and difeafes, which frequently take place, and lay the foundation for fiftulae in perinaeo.. In confequence of my being much hurried by bufinefs at that time, it was, omitted, yet thinking that ’ its publication may be ufeful,. I infert it at the conclufion-= of the prefent voluraei, ' . • t It is well known,, that abfeeffes form in. the vicinity of the urethra, when it is in an irritable Hate, but there are fome circum- ftances relative to their progrefs, which per- haps have not been' generally or fufficiently ' . . attendedON PiSTULiE IN THE PERlNiEUM. 245 attended to. When matter forms in the courfe of the membranous part of the ure- thra, or in the neighbourhood of the bulb, it does not produce inflammation of the ikin, or break like a common abfcefs; on the con- trary, the fkin is but little affedted, and as the matter increafes in quantity, it appears kept down as if it were colledfed beneath a fafcia. Under thefe circumftances it in general comes forwards, in the courfe of the fpongy fubftance of the urethra, and bulges out in the middle of the fcrotum, forming there a tenfe protuberant fwelling. I have fometimes known the matter make its way backwards, and prefent itfelf between' the thigh and buttock, a little below the reclum. Thefe circumflances indicate, that there is a fafcia fpread beneath the Ikin of the peri- naeum, over the fubjacent parts j yet, I think, the limits of this fafcia can fcarcely be afcer- tained by difledlion. The knowledge of its exiftence appears to me of importance in explaining many occur- rences which take place about thefe parts, though its denfity and ftrength varyijiig R 3 in246 ON FISTULA IN THH PERINiEUM. in different perfons, the fadVs which I am endeavouring to reprefent will vary in de- gree in different cafes. The abfceffes of which I am fj^eakiiig arc often fimple, no urine having efcaped from the iirethra^to give rife to them, though fome- times after they have been opened, urine is found to pafs through the cavity of the abfeefs in a greater or lefs degree. Thefe abfcefics ought of coiirfe to be treated as colledlions of matter beneath fafeias in. general; they fliould be opened at an early period, to prevent their enlargement. A free opening is proper, becaufe the fkin being only flightly difeafed, and having a great propenfity to heal, will fometimes pre- vent the free efcape of any matter or urine, which may be in the cavity of the abfeefs. The cavity will then become diftended and enlarged, perhaps in a diredfion between the redfum and the thigh, requiring another opening to be made in that fituation: yet, in general, I have not found it neceffary to di- vide the {kin throughout the wdiole front of the abfeefs. TheON PISTULiE IN THE PERlNvEUM. 247 The complicated finufes, which form in fome cafes of fiftiilje in perinaeo, do not appeal- to me to arife from fuch fimple cafes, but from the urethra ulcerating in many parts. Anatomical examination has fhewn this to be fadl in feveral cafes which I have infpefted. The ulceration,'' or giving way of the urethra, is, I think, generally underftood to be the confequence of a llridture affording fo complete an obftacle to the paffage of the 'urine, as to occafion the canal to inflame, ulcerate, or flough above the impediment. It is very evident that this is not unfrequently the cafe, yet I do not believe that furgeons in general, are fufficiently impreffed with the knowledge of the following fadt, that the urethra may ulcerate in various parts from irritation, even whilft there is a'fufficient channel for the free exit of the urine. The following cafes are related in proof of thisfadl: '■ CASE. A gentleman had been attended for a typhoid fever for between a fortnight and three R 4 w-eeks.«48 ON FISTULA IN THE PERINjEUM. weeks. A clyfter was ordered for hirn; but the perfon who was defired to adminifter it, could not readily introduce the pipe j and, on examination, it was difcovered that there was a confiderable induration, difcoloura- tion, and fwelling of one buttock, by the fide of the anus. On this account I was dehred to fee the patient, and the appearance of the part inftantly induced me to fay, -that fome urine had efcaped-from its natural channel, and caufed the indammation which had been produdtive of thefe peculiar appeatr ances. > The powers of the patient’s mind were weak' and wanderings yet, when I afked him in a loud voice, whether he had any difficulty in voiding his urine ? he replied, Oh, I told you, it was my firft grievance. Yet I faw him void his urine freely, and in a moderate-fized ftream. Perceiving that there was fluid beneath the thickened and difcoloured integuments, I divided them, and difcharged a confiderable quantity of putrid matter, urine, and floughs. The patient became, for a time, much better, and urine paffcd freely through the wound; yet he afterward? gradually funk, and died. In this cafeON FISTULjE in the PERINiEUM. ^49 12 out. cafe, the urine mu ft have efcaped from its natural channel very high up, and have been forced into the cellular fubftance connecting the bladder and the re<ftum, producing that peculiar inflammation, wirich probably occa- fioned the typhoid fever. CASE. - ' A fimilar occurrence happened to a patient whom I had previoufly a!ttended on account of ftrictures in his urethra, and which had been fo far relievetl, that a moderate-flzed bougie could be pafied into the bladder,- and he voided his urine freely in a moderate-fized ftream. He had for fome months difcon-f tinned the ufe of bougies previoufly to the event which I am going to relate. He was feized with a kind of low fever, but his atten- tion feemed to be dircdfcd to the feat of his difeafe, fo that it became remarked at an early period, that the integuments of the buttock, by the flde of the reclum were in- flamed. The fimilarity of this cafe to the preceding one induced mefto make an inci- . flon through the fl:in and fubjacent fub- ftance to fome depth, when a confiderable quantity of foetid matter and urine guflied450 ON FISTULA IN THE PER1N.EUM. out. I faw this patient void his urine, which he did with apparent freedom, and in fuch a ftream'as I have defcribed. He was relieved by having an outlet given to the urine and iriatter, which continued to pafs freely through the wound; yet he afterwards gradually funk, and died. To my great regret, I was pre- vented from examining the parts after death, in both of thefe cafes. CASE. .' A patient who had fuffered for more than a fortnight with flow fever, in which his in- telleffs were fo impaired, that he communi- cated no information to his medical attend- ant refpedfing the nature of his diforder, was obferved to have a fwelling near his left groin, which was fuppofed to be a common abfccfs. This difeafe increafing, and fliew- ing no tendency to break, after a few days, I was defired to fee the patient. The fwelling then was as large as an orange, but oblong, extending from the groin down the front of the fcrotum. The colour and induration of the fkin, in fuch cafes, are in general fo pecu- . liar, as at once to imprefs the opinion, that cfFufed urine has been the caufe of the in- flamma-ON FISTULA IN THE PERlNiCUM. 25I flammation and abfcefs. I without hefitation cut through the thickened integuments, and difcharged about fix ounces of putrid pus and urine. A quantity of doughy cellular fub- ftance foon afterwards protruded through the wound, which gradually feparated and came away. The patient’s intelledVs foon became clear, all fever left him, and he foon regained his ufual ftate of health. In this cafe, I con- clude, that the urethra had given way on its left fide, in front of the fafcia, which covers and binds down the parts beneath the Ikin of the perinaeum, and in the vicinity of the abfcefs. I mention this opinion to lead us to form a probable conjedlure as to the caufeof the urine becoming diffufed, in fome cafes, beneath the integuments of the pubes and abdomen. i When circumfcribed abfceffes form, it is probable, that the quantity of urine which dcapes from the urethra is fmall, and that by its irritation it occafions adhefion of the furrounding cellular fubftance. In the cafe juft related, the quantity muft have been fufficient to have occaftoned the death of a confidarable quantity of cellular fubftance. ‘ When-252 ON FISTULA IN THE PERINJEUM. When the urine is diffufed, and injeded into the cellular fubftance extenfively, fcarifica- tions afford but an ineffeclual outlet to it. The pradlice moff appropriate to thefe cafes would be, at as early a period as pofTible, to make a wound down to the aperture in the urethra, fo that whatever urine may efcape from the canal fhould run freely out of the wound, and be no longer forced to pervade the cellular fubftance. Yet it is difficult, nay,, perhaps in fome cafes impoffible, to 'know where the urethra has given way; and one object which I had in view in relating thefe cafes, was to,induce others to refledt, and to endeavour to afcertain, by experience, how and where we ought in different cafes, to make fuch wounds as will afford free dif- charge to the urine, and prevent the horrible * cffedts of its becoming extenfively diffufed through the cellular fubftance. Our conjec- tures refpedting the fituation of the aperture, will be much affifted by the hiftory of the cafe.. If the fwelling and inflammation began at the top of the fcrotum, near the pubes, it is probable, that the difcafed aperture of the ure- thra is in front of the perinseum j if it began onON F»STUL>E IN THE PERINEUM, 255 on one fide; it is probable, that the opening of the urethra is on that fide. Were furgeons fully awai'e of the nature and urgency of the cafe, and bold enough to do what' is required of them j that is, to cut through the fwollen and inflamed paits,^'till they ex- pofed the tube of the urethra, I am con- vinced many lives might be faved. If the mteguments of the peringeum be affefted, it is probable, that the aperture in the urethra is as far, or farther back than that part; yet I'efpedting this point we may err, it fre^' quently happening that tlie aperture in the. uretlnra is far back, and yet the integuments of the perinaeum may contain no urine,-*the fafcia, which I have fpoken of, preventTnjg: that fluid, from afledfing them. * ' *■ I (hall briefly relate two more cafes to exr. hibit other varieties of thpfe difeafes. CASE. A gentleman, who was more than,feventy years of age, but of a ftrong c’ohftitution,: who had never found any difficulty in void- mg his urine till a few“ days before the occnr- rence, which I am about to relate, and who adtually254 ON JIStUL^ IN THE PERINEUM. a^lually did void it freely in a full llream, after his urethra had given way, fo as to allow of the efcape of a confiderable portion of the urine, was fuddenly feized with fhivering and fevere indifpofition. The patient did not complain of any thing being wrong about the fcrotum, or urinary organs, till about two days, when he mentioned that his telficles were fwollcn. When I faw him, the fcrotum and integuments of the penis were much diftended and mortified on the furface in feveral large irregular black patches. The diftenfion of the fcrotum was not merely occafioned by urine, it was em- phyfematous alfo from air extricated by putrefaction. The integuments of the pc- rinseum were fcarceiy afteCled. The patient faid that the fwelling had begun from behind, and on the left fide. I concluded, that in this cafe, the urethra had given way in the periuseum, and that the' urine had palTed in the courfe of that canal, between it and the fafcia, which I have fpoken of, till it arrived at the loofe cellular fubftance of the fcrotum which it readily pervaded. I know this-to ' have been the faCl in fome fimilar cafes 2 wliichON FISTUL7E IN THE PERINEUM. *55 which I examined after death; and I con- clude it to be owing to the refiftance of a fafcia fpread beneath the Ikin, that the in- teguments of the perinaeum are not affeftcd, even though the urethra has given way be- neath them. As the obje6l of furgery is to make an external wound oppofite to the orifice in the urethra, I purfued a practice in this cafe which I had found fuccefsful in feveral others of a fimilar nature, and which I was led to adopt, from difeovering that the aperture in the urethra was, in fome cafes which I examined, much farther back than the part where the urine firft appeared to have pervaded the cellular fubftance of the ferotum. 1 made a wound about two inches and a half in length, through the integuments and fubjacent cellular fubftance of the perinseum and back part of the ferotum, in the diredfion of the urethra, but more to the left fide. The, wound need not extend farther back than the bulb, and ftiould, I think, come for- wards fo as to divide the integuments of the back part of the ferotum, where the fwelling ftrft takes place. The objedl of this wound ^ fascia of the perinseum, and25<5 ON riSTULJE IN THE PERIN^EUM. publifh one of them, and I will add another and the operator may now feel the groove wliich intervenes between the Ipongy fub- ftance of the urethra and the crus penis. Now, in cafes of this defeription, I have proceeded to divide the fafeia, which is fpread over thefe parts, fo that I could more dif- tin6lly pafs my finger into the groove which is fornied between them, and gently elevate the fafeia from off the fpongy fublfance of the urethra. I did fo in the prefent cafe, and was anxious that the patient fhould void his urine, that I might fee if it came through the wound which I had made, but he was unable at that time to difeharge any. How- ever, afterwards when he made water, it continued to pafs freely through the wound in the perinseum. Having formerly been perplexed v/ith re- H:ard to fuch cafes as I have laft deferibed, and having now operated in many fimilar mlfances, with the fame event; that is, with a perfeffly free difeharge being afforded to the utine which efcapes from its natural channel, I thought it might be ufeful to _ON FISTULiE IN THE-PERINiEUM. *257 VOL. III. s I found of a different kind, to fliew the neceflity and propriety of our endeavouring at once to give a free difcharge to the urine, by making an external wound, which communicates with the aperture in the urethra. CASE. ‘1 A gentleman of feventy years of age, was affedted with a kind of intermittent fever, for which he was attended ,by a phyfician, from whom he concealed that he had any difeafe of his urethra. After fome weeks, however, the patient informed him one morning, that he had a flight fwelling of one teftis. On this account I was defired to fee the patient, who refided a little way from London. The fwelling of the fcrd- tum at that time was not larger than a large apple; it was fituated at the back part, of the bag, and on the right fide, and its appearance was very demonffrative of its nature; I urged, the patient, but in vain, to permit me to divide the fkin, but he faid he would allow no operation to be done, unlefs in confequence of the opinion of other furgeons in confultation.358 ON FISTULA IN THE PERINEUM. I found that he had for the greater part of his life been in the frequent habit of palling bougies for himfelf, and that he was uncer- tain of his ability to introduce even a very fmall one. As no confultation could be held on his cafe, till the following day, I called on the patient in the evening, taking with me an extremely fmall flexible varnilhed catheter, hoping that I might be able to pafs it, or if I Ihould fail, that I might be allovved to give a free exit to the eftufed urine. At that time, however, I found the whole fcro- tum uniformly diftended to a very great lize, and the integuments of the penis fo fwollen and projedling, that it was impolTible, \vith- out an operation, to difeover the orifice of the urethra. The patient having appointed other furgeons to attend on the fubfequent day, was refolved to abide the refult of their opinion, before he would fiibmit to any wound being made. On the enfuing day, feveral large irregular mortified patches had formed on the integuments of the ferotum and penis, and the patient was fo funk and con- fufed in his intelledts, that an operation was, I believe, deemed ufelefs by all prefent, except myfelfi-ON FISTULA IN THE PERINJEUM. 259 myfelf. I knew the patient was in other er* fpefts healthy, and I had many times feen the whole Ikin flough off from the genitals, and the patients furvive and do well. As, how- ever, an operation was the only refource, it was performed. We drew the patients legs and thighs out of bed, and turning him on his face, the perinseum prefented itfelf in fuch a manner as to admit of my performing the operation. The integuments of the peri- naeum were now greatly fwollen, which cir- cumftance I had not obferved before. I made a wound in the direftion of the one made in lithotomy, and cut through between two and three inches of cellular fubftance cedematous with urine, before I could touch the bulb of the urethra, or other parts fitualed beneath them. I raifed the tumid integuments from off the fubjacent parts with my finger, but ftill no urine flowed. I then endeavoured to pafs my finger by the fide of the bulb to- wards the proftate, in the direflion of the urethra; and in a few feconds, about three pints (as I fiiould guefs) of highly putrid urine, mixed with purulent matter, was fuddenly and forcibly projeffed. Being now I aflureda6o ON FI3TULJE IN THE PERINEUM. alTured that the bladder could readily dif- charge the urine through the external wound, I cleanfed and dreffed the parts. The patient got into his bed without aflift- ance, and exprefled, with vivacity, all that comfort and relief which every one experi- ences from the evacuation of a much dif- tended bladder. The mortified patches of fkin feparated, yet fufficient remained to give a covering to the genitals. Great quantities of mortified cellular fubftance came through the apertures left by fepara- tion of the fuperficial doughs. I was able to introduce a very fine elaftic catheter, and by enlarging its fize, weekly, the urethra regained its natural calibre in all its parts; fo that the patient voided his urine in a larger ftream, and with more freedom and force than he had done for fifty preceding years. It feems right however to add, that after two years, the ftream having again diminifhed he had recourfe to bougies, and met with oppofitipn from the ftridtures which had contra6ted again during that in- terval. Strahan and Predon, Printers-Screet, London.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS O N TUMOURS, AND ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. By JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETIES OF PARIS, PHILADELPHIA, &C. ' ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL, AND TEACHER OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY. L 0 N D 0 N.- PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW.I • tl.. : 8V!OiTAV^Jia?,ao aAoio^ua V 1 KO > i V. ,4i fi 0 O t/- U T tto a4A : T'i'‘ ' i’ ' '»V'V' i-! '' • ■■ A'. '• .v^;',;-^ v-f ,:‘j' ■'"■ '. >,aeBHr>2BA‘3Aai4Uu^. .•-., •j ' . ~ . ", ■ oil / ' /iliUL •*u l.SXHO JArt-itp.U « iV.«M VlfACJ-r. k . .YitiiaKjfc t.'. ■■'" '»6:* J; ■■ ,-* ■■ ‘■••‘ •>♦/'',■ ■■*.'^Af^>''f'P L .> . ^I^JIO t.'Jl ui .li;;-’ti tVA-Jz-iKCi diTU^ •Jfter; -. #•■ '^V ■ • ’ » ^1 < . ■SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. V An Attempt to form a Classificati6n of , Tumours according to their Anatomical StruBure. HE obfervations, which I have had an opportunity of making in St. Bartho- lomew’s Hofpital, on the various tumours which occur in the human body, have been fo numerous, that I have almoft felt myfelf under the necefhty of forming fome claflifi- cationof thofe difeafes. This claffification I have attempted according to their anatomical ftrufture, which allows, at the fame time, of a correfponding arrangement of thofe pra6li- cal remarks that have been promifcuoufly Gollefted. I have long felt fo fenfibly the advantages refulting from an orderly arrange- ment of this extenfive fubjeft, that I have taught it for fome years in my Lectures ii\ the manner exhibited in the following pages. VOL. IV. B lam2 A CLASSIPlC'ATrON' I am far, however, from being fatisfied with the method which I have adopted j. but it is the beft that I have been able to devife; and, at leaft, it has this utility, that it admits of a number of important cafes being arranged in a perfpicuous manner, and prevents that obfcurity which a total want of order necef- farily creates. My motives for laying this paper before, the Public are; firft, a conviction, that an extenfive knowledge of this fubjeCt, fuch a knowledge as would lead to an attempt at claflification, and to afcertain the peculiarities which characterize the different fpecies of tumours, can only be obtained by thofe who have very ample opportunities of obfervation,. But it is probable that, when the fubjeCt in general has been furveyed;. and its parts pointed out, thofe parts, may be difcrimi- nated and examined with accuracy and ad- vantage, by perfons who have' not had oppor- tunities of contemplating the whole, zdly. The minds of medical men having of late? been laudably excited to inveftigate the nature of cancer, in hopes of difcovering fomething fervice-OF TUMOURS, ^ ferviceable in that dreadful difeafe, it be- comes right to remark, and it will appear from the following account, that there are many local tumours and ulcers, as in- tractable in their nature, and deftruCtive in their progrefs, as cancer, which are liable to be confounded with that difeafe, but which ought to be diftinguilhed from it, before any progrefs can be made in this difficult part of medical fcience. The fociety for the invefti- gation of the nature of cancer have enquired about the anatomical ftruClure of that difeafe, and about other diforders which have a re- femblance to it. In the prefent paper I have attempted to reply to fuch interrogations, as far as my knowledge enables me. It appears to me, that, in order fully to inveftigate any fubjeCl with advantage, a great deal of colla- teral knowledge is required, which ferves, like light fhining from various places, to illu- minate the obje6f of our refearches. I am not without hopes that this paper will tend to point out the required diftinClions,' and furnifh fuch collateral knowledge. B z Jxi4 A CLASSIFICATION In engaging in a new undertaking, I am likely to expofe my own deficiencies of in- formation ; and by adopting a new and per- haps injudicious arrangement, and employing new and perhaps unfit terms, I may lay my- felf open to criticifm and cenfiire. I am not unwilling, however, to encounter thefe rilks, when I have it in view to bring a difficult and iiiterefting fubjedl fairly before the public j in hopes that, by exciting the atten- tion and engaging the labours of many per- fons, it may, at length, acquire that perfec- tion of which it is fufceptible, and which could never be brought about by the exer- tions of a few individuals. The fubje6l of tumours occupies a con- fiderable fpace in the works of the antient writers on medicine. They feem, however, to have confidered the fubjedt, rather with regard to its name than its nature; for we find a great variety of diffimilar difeafes coi- ledled, I cannot fay arranged, under the fame general title. The error has defeended to us, and even in Dr. Cullen’s Nofology we find difeafes5 OP TUMOURS. , difeafes of arteries, veins, glands, tendons, joints, and bones, brought together under one order, and defignated by the fame name of timours. Some of thefe alfo are merely enlargements of natural parts; whilft others are entirely new produ6lions, having no exift-^ ence in the original compofition of the body, We have, I believe, fufficient knowledge of the nature of thefe difeafes to clafs them more fcientifically; and as this has not yet, as far as I know been done, I lhall endea^ vour to fupply the deficiency. In the definition which I mean to give of tumours, I fhall trefpafs as much,againfl the ufual import of the word, as nofologifts have hitherto done in their clalFifications againfl the nature of the difeafe. For I fhall refliidt the furgical fignification of the word Tu- mour” to fuch fwellings as arife from fome new produ6lion, which made no part of the * Plenck publiftied, 1767, a work Intltled “ Syftema Tumorum,” which I have not feen, but I conclude that it does not refemble the prefent attempt; fince no arrange- ment, like that which I have made, is to met with in th? Encyclopedic Mcthodique. » 3 originalB A pLASSlFICATiO.Wy original compofition of the body; and by this means I fhall exclude ^11 fimple enlarge- ments of bones, joints, glands, &c. Many enlargements of glands are however included in the definition, as they are found to be owing to, a tumour growing in them, and either condenfing the natural ftru6lure, or caufing the abforption of the original gland. Sometimes alfo the difeafe of the gland feems to produce an entire alteration of ftrudture in the part j the natural organization being removed, and a new-formed difeafed ftru6lure fubftituted in its ftead. In either of thefe cafes the difeafe of the gland is defigned to be included in the definition; and the pra6tical remarks which follow will equally apply to the fame kind of difeafed ftrudture whether it exift feparately by itfclf, or occupy the fituation of ^n original gland. The ftrudlure of tumours is alfo a part of morbid anatomy which deferves to be examined j fiince (as it did not come within the fcope of the under- taking) it has not been fully difcufled by Dr. Baillie in his very valuable treatife on that fubjeff. Yet as he has given reprefenta- tions of glandular parts enlarged by a difeafed ftru6lureOP TUMOURS* 7 ii:ru61:ure of an entirely new formation j fo I iliall have the advantage of referring the reader to his accurate and expreflive repre- fentations of fome of thofe appearances which it is my purpofe to defcribe. There is an obfervation of this judicious and accurate writer which I fliall take the liberty of in- ferring, fince it juftly appreciates the degree of utility of inveftigations like the prefent: he obferves, “ that the knowledge of morbid ftrudlure does not lead with certainty to the knowledge of morbid adlions, although the one is the eftedt of the other j yet furely it lays the moft folid foundation for profecuting fuch enquiries with fuccefs* In proportion, therefore, as we fhall become acquainted with the changes produced in the ftrudlure of parts from difeafed adtions, we fliall be more likely to make fome progrefs towards a knowledge of the adrions themfelves, although it mufl: be very ffowly.” The incipient ftate of tumours will natu- rally firfl: engage our attention; and thofe, which perhaps form the befl: example and illuftration of the fubjedl, are fuch as B 4 hangA classification hang into cavities from the membran- ous furfaces which form their boundaiies. The caufe of tumours having a pendu- lous attachment attradted the attention of Mr. Hunter, who made the following re- marks on the formation of one on the inner furface of the peritoneum, as is related by Mr. Home in the Tranfadlions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chi- rurgical Knowledge, Vol. i. p. 231. “ The cavity of the abdomen being opened there appeared, lying upon the peritoneum, a fmall portion of red blood recently coagulated; this, upon examination, was found connedled to the furface upon which it had been depofited by an attachment half an inch long, and this neck had been formed before the coagulum had loft its red colour.” Now had veffels fhot through this flender neck, and organized the clot of blood, as this would then have become a living part, it might have grown to an indefinite magnitude, and its nature and progrefs would probably have depended on the organization which it had affumed. I have in my polTelfion a tumour, doubtlefs formed in the manner Mr. Hunter has dc- j I fcribed,9 OF TUMOURS. fcribed, which hung pendulous from the front of the peritoneum, and in which the organization and confequent aftions have been fo far completed, that the body of the tumour has become a lum^ of fat, whilil the neck is merely of a fibrous and vafculai texture. There can be little doubt, but that - tumours form every where in the fame man- ner. The coagulable part of the blood being either accidentally effufed, or depofited in confequence of difeafe, becomes afterwards an organized and living part, by the growth of the adjacent veffels and nerves into it. When the depofited fubftance has its at- tachment by a fingle thread, all its vafcular fupply muff proceed through that part; but in other cafes the veflels flioot into it irre- gularly at various parts of its furface. Thus an unorganized concrete becomes a living tu- mour, 'Which has at firft no perceptible pe- culiarity as to its nature j though it derives a fupply of nourifhment from thefuiTounding parts, it feems to live and grow by its own independent powers j and the future ftruc- ture, which it may acquire, feems to depend ©n the operation of its own veffels. When ■ . theED A CLASSIFICATION the organization of a gland becomes changed into that unnatural ftru6lure which is ob- fervable in tumours, it may be thought in fome degree to contradid thofe obferva-^ tions: but in this cafe the fubftance of the gland is the matrix in which the tumour is formed. The ftru61;ure of a tumour is fometimes |ike that of the parts near which it grows. Thofe which are pendulous into joints, are of a cartilaginous or offeous fabric i fatty tumours frequently form in the midfl of adipofe fubftance, and I have feen fome tu- mours growing from the palate, and having a {lender attachment, which in ftru6lure re- fembled the palate. Sometimes, however, they do not refemble in {Iru^lure the parts from which they grow. The inftance jufl mentioned, of the pendulous portion of fat growing from the peritoneum, will ferve as a ^roof; the veifels, which had {hot into it, made the tumour into fat, whilil the neck was of a fibrous and vafcular firudture. I have feen oifeous tumours unconnefted with bone or perioileum 5 and indeed, in general, the31 OF TUMOURS, the ftruclure of a tumour is unlike that of the part in which it is produced. Therefore we feem warranted in concluding, that in many cafes the nature of the tumour depends on its ownadfions and organization; and that, like the embryon, it merely receives nouriflir pient from the furrounding parts, If, then, the coagulable part of the blood be from any caufe effufed, if the adjacent abforbents do not remove it, and the fur- rounding veffels grow into it, the origin of a tumour may be thus formed. It may be right to refleft a little on the caufes which may qccafion a depofition and confequent organization of the coagulable part of the blood; as fuch refledlions throw light on the nature and growth of tumours, and lead to the eftablidiment of principles, which arc applicable to tumours in general. The de- pofition of the coagulable part of the blood may be the effedl of accident, or of a com- mon inflammatory procefs*, or it may be the * It will probably be ufcful to llluftrate this fubje£I by the recital of a c^fe ; — CASE.12 A CLASSIFICATION the confequeiice of fome difeafed ‘acHoii of the furrounding veffels which may influence the organization and growth of the tu- mours. In the former cafes, the parts furrounding the tumour may be confidered Amply as the fources from which it derives its nutriment, ^ whilll it grows apparently by its own inhe- rent powers, and its organization depends upon a61ions begun and exifting in itfelf. If fuch a tumor be removed, the furround- ing parts, being found, foon heal, and a com- plete cure enfues. But if a tumour be re- moved, whofe exiftence depended on the difeafe of the furrounding parts, which are CASE. A medical pra£titioiier bruifed the upper part of his thigh againft the pummel of a faddle, in confequence of his horfe ftarting. The bruife and flight inflammation attendant on this accident foon difappeared, but after fome months, he perceived a fmall tumour, which gra- dually increafed, till it acquired a confiderable magni- tude. He came to London, and had it removed. It was an adipofe tumour, and had a diftiiift capfule inclofmg it, formed by the condenfation of the cellular fubftance in which it had grown. flill*3 OF TUMOURS, Hill left, and this difeafe be not altered by the ftimulus of the operation, no benefit is obtained: thefe parts again produce a dif- eafed fubftance, which has generally the ap - , pearance of fungus, and, in confequence of being irritated by the injury of the operation, the difeafe is in general increafed by the means which were defigned for its cure. It appears therefore that in fome cafes of tu- mours, the newly formed part alone requires removal, whilft in others the furrounding fubftance muft be taken away, or a radical cure cannot be effe6led. There is yet another circumftance deferv- ing attention, before I proceed to the particu- lar confideration of the fubje61;; which is, that a tumour once formed, feems to be a fuf- ficient caufe of its own continuance and in- creafe. The irritation, which it caufes in the contiguous parts, is likely to keep up that increafed aftion of veffels which is neceftary to its fupply; and the larger it becomes, the more does it ftimulate, and of courfe contri- bute to its own uicreafe. Suppofef4 A dLASSIFICAtiOl^ Suppofe then a tumour to have formed^ and increafed j it will continue to grow arid to condenfe the futrounding cellular fub- ftance, and thus acquire for itfelf a kind of capfule* Tumours are more clofely or loofely conne6led to the furrounding parts; which circumftance feems to depend upon the de- gree of ftimulus which they occafion, and the inflammation which they thus excite* This irritation perhaps may be the caufe why fome tumours, which are flow in their firfl: increafe, grow rapidly after they have ac- quired a certain fize. Thefe preliminaiy obfervations will be re- ferred to, when the different kinds of tumours are defcribed. When the hiftory of different kinds of tumours is fpoken of, there will be frequent neceflity to advert to the effedfs of medical treatment upon them j it therefore feems right to premife a few words upon that fubjedf. It can fcarcely be doubted that when tumours form and grow, there exifts an increafed ftate of adtion in the adjacent vef- fels.OF TUMOURS. fels, atid the firft curative intention in thefe difeafes will therefore be to reprefs as much as pofllble this unufual exertion of the vef- fels, which gives rife to the formation of a tumour, and, by its continuance, caufes its increafe. I know of no local meafures to dimlnifli an increafed or inflammatory adlion of any part of the body more rational in theory, or more efficacious in pradtice than thofe of taking away the two great caufes of animal adlions, the blood and heat of the difor- dered part. The former is generally accom- plifhed by means of leeches applied in its vicinity, which fliould be repeated as cir- cumftances indicate; and the latter, by the application of folded linen, wetted with fedative lotions, by which a continual eva- poration and conflant abflraftion of heat is kept up from the furface of the fkin. The effeft of this lafl mode of treatment is much more confiderable than at firfl fight might be fuppofed. It operates on parts far be-r neath the furface. As heat is fo tranf- 12 miffibleX CLASSIFICATIOK miflible a fubftance*, fo in proportion as the temperature of the Ikin is diminifhed by evaporation, it derives heat from the fubja- cent parts, and thus are their morbid adlions leflened-f. If by fuch means the growth of a tumour be fufpended, another curative in- dication naturally arifes, which is to pro- mote the abforption of the new formed fub- ftance. * Though this expreffion may not be corre£t, the idea which is defigned to be conveyed by it, will, I believe, be imderftood. f The regulation of the temperature of difeafed parts, feems to be an important objedb in the treatment of local difeafes ; and it is very poffible, that by producing eva- poration from the furface we may chill them. Patients, therefore, ought be apprized, that our object in the ufe of evaporating walhes, is merely to prevent an unna- tural degree of heat. It is not neceflary that the walhes fliould be applied cold to accomplifh this obje£f. A chilly fenfation imparted to a portion of the fkin may afFe£l: the whole furface, and produce that afFedfion which we call a cold. In many cafes, a bread and water poultice feems to me the belt application we can employ, both with a view to abftraft fuperfluous heat, and on account of its fobthing properties. It is indeed a local warm bath, and, like the bath, it induces a gentle perfpiration from the furface. ThisOF TUMOURS. ^7 This indication is generally attempted by the ufe of ftimulants, fuch as fridlions with mercurial ointment, preffure, and eledlricity, or by means which alfo excite fome counter irritation, as rubefacient plaf^ ters, folutions of falts, blifters, and iifues. Both reafon and experience equally demon- ifrate the impropriety of ufiiig the ftimulat- ing plan till the difeafe is firft tranquillized, and in a degree fubdued. It is reafonable to expedl that ftimulating meafures will increafe the adlions, which are going on in the dif- eafed part; and experience proves that dif- eafes are often increafed by thofe very means which, had they been employed at a proper time, might have effected their cure. This may be elucidated by a fa6l which is, I believe, generally known and admitted, that if a blifter be applied for the cure of a pleu- rify before evacuations are made ufe of, and the adivity of the difeafe be thus checked, it aggravates the difeafe; if afterwards, it fpeedi- ly effeds a cure. If a tumour or any local difeafe be for a time benefitted by ftimulating difcutients, and the difeafed adions recur in it with a degree of adivity; it is better to VOL. IV. c defiflrS A CLASSIFICATION defill: from this latter plan of treatment, and adopt again the former one, till the dileafe is by fuch means rendered inactive. I am fo well convinced of the neceflity of attending to the time and circumftances in which thefe remedies are applied in order to give them their real efficacy in the cure of local difeafes, that I have been induced to dwell longer on this fubjecl than may per- haps to fome feem neceffary. When a blifter is made permanent, or a feton or iffue is made in the vicinity of a difordered part, it is in fadt producing a new but curable difeafe, in order to detradl from an old one, over which we have lefs controll. But here the fame obfervations apply. We ffiould not produce a new difeafe till the adtive ftate of the original one is diminilhed> and till it is, as it were, rendered dormant j for otherwife the irritation of the intended remedy will rather tend to the aggravation than the cure of the diforder j it will alfo increafe the febrile difturbance of the confti- tution, by adding to the caufes of irritation. It ffiould alio be borne in mind, tiiat the 6 intended19 OF TUMOURS. intended remedy is a difeafe of our own creating; and, if it be a painful one, that it may, by difturbing the conftitution, do more harm in this way to the original difeafe than good by its counter-irritation. S uch are the local means of treating tumours, as well as other local difeafes, and to thefe I fhall have occafion to refer. I cannot fpeak of the general means ufually employed to ope- rate on thefe diforders without entering into a long, and, I think, an unnecelTary difcuflion. In attempting a claffification of tumours, I fhall fnppofe that they may be made to con- flitute an Order in the clafs of local dieafes in nofology j and the meaning of the word may be reftridfed, in the manner fuggefted, to fubftances of new formation, which-made no part in the original ftrudlure of the bodyj the order may then be divided into genera, and the firft genus may be denominated from its mpft obvious charadfer, (that of having a firm and flefliy feel,) Sarcoma, or Sarcomatous tumours. This genus contains many fpecies, to a defcjiption of which I next proceed. The firft c 2 of2'0 A CLASSIFICATION of which I fhall treat, being apparently coni'"' pofed of the coagulable part of the bloody rendered very generally vafcular by the growth of veflels through it, without having any noticeable peculiarity in their diftribu- -tion, may therefore be called Cojnmofi Vafular^ or organized Sarcoma. The names by which I have diftinguiflied ' the different fpecies of farcoma have been obje6led to, becaufe they ai’e derived from internal circumlfances, and not from any* information, which can be acquired prior ta' an operation. I have not, however, been able to devife any better mode of denomi- nating thefe tumours : for all the fpecies muft agree in the external charaflers, thofe of an increafe of bulk, and a flefliy feel. If, however, an arrangement of tumours were once made, fo that the hiftory of each fpecies could be particularly remarked, we might perhaps be able, from this circum- ftance, to form a probable opinion of the na-' ture of the tumour, and of the mode of treat-' ment which it would require j and, by advert- ing to the flru6lure of the removed tumour afterOF TUMOURS. ,2>I after an operation, we might determine whether it would be right to remove or leave the contiguous parts. It is defigned, then, to include under this title all thole tumours which appear to be compofed of the gela- tinous part of the blood, 'rendered more or lefs vafcular by the growth of veffels through it. The veffels which pervade this fubftance are, in different inftances, either larger or fmaller, more or lefs numerous: they are dif- tributed in their ufual arborefcent manner, without any defcribable peculiarity of ar- rangement. This kind of tumour feems to be the moft fimple in its nature ; many, per- haps all, of the varieties of tumours, were at firft of this nature. The fatty tu'mour lately mentioned was doUbtlefs at firft a common vafcular fubftance; but the veffels fecreted fat • in the body of the tumour, whilft the'’neck underwent no fuch change. They are fuch tumours, then, as are orga- nized throughout, but without diftinguilh- ;able peculiarity of ftrudture, that are meant fto be confidered under this title. This c 3 ftrudturgA CLASSIFICATION 23 ftruclure is met with not only in diftinft tu- mours, but likewife in the teftis, mamma, and abforbent glands. In the teftis I have feen the veftels, very numerous and fmall, difperfed through every part of the tumour. In the mamma they feem to be rather large • than numerous, and the organization ap- pears lefs complete. When this kind of tumour has attained a conftderable ftze, the fuperficial veins appear remarkably large‘j on which account, to- gether with their curioufly meandering courfe beneath the fkin, they cannot fail to attract attention. Perhaps the weight of the tumour comprefles the deeper feated veins and obliges the blood to return in larger quantities through thofe nearer the furface j or perhaps tliefe veftels undergo a kind of fympathetic enlargement j for they do not appear to be diftended by the blood which they contain. Thefe tumours are generally dull in their fenfation j enduring even a rough examina- tion by the hand, and eledlric ftiocks, without becoming painful. 1 fufpedf that it is this kind of farcoma, which fornetimes, though rarely.23 OF TUMOURS. rarely, fuppurates; but as, when that event takes place, even partially, the reft of the fubftance is, in general, fpeedily removed by abforption, I have had no opportunity of afcertaining this circumftancc. Thefe tumours generally grow till the Ikin is fo diftended that it ulcerates, and expofes the new-formed fubftance; which, being as it were obliged to inflame, and not being able to fuftain difeafe. Houghs and falls out; fometimes portions feem to be detached, and come away without floughing. In this man- ner is the difeafe occafionally got idd of; but fuch is the conftitutional irritation at- tending this procefs, and the difgufting foetor and frightful appearance of the part, that the furgeon generally recommends, and the patient fubmits to its removal at this jundf ure. As Cafes will probably convey more in- formation in lefs words than defcription or narrative, and as they identify the kind of difeafe which is meant to be defcribed, and inform, as it were by example j I defign to relate one ^or more cafes of each kind of c 4 tumour24 A CLASSIFICATION tumour, and thus curtail as much as I can my defcription of them. CASE I. A woman, between forty and fifty years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, on account of a confiderable tu- mour which had grown on the infide of the knee, and had fo concealed the tibia, that it could not be felt. She remembered it when of the fize of an egg, but could give no in- formation to our inquiries, whether in that ftate it was fixed to the bone, or moveable upon it. It meafured two feet in circum- ference, and had been gradually increafing between three and four years. • The veins were large, and formed an appearance like network on the furface. As the tumour advanced in fize it had gradually prevented her moving about till it entirely confined her to her bed. In this fituation it was not painful till within half a year before her admifiion into the hofpital; when, from the fenle of diftenfion of the fkin, and tlie inflammation induced in that part.25 OF TUMOURS. part, file became reftlefs and feverifh, and loft her flefh confiderably. At length, the Ikin ulcerated, and the expofed tumour in- flamed and floughed at different times, fo as to leave a cavity in it of the fize of a pint- bafon. From the fldes of this cavity there 's\'’as poured forth a moft copious and foetid difcharge; fhe had frequently loft blood from the veffels laid open by ulceration or flough- ing; and, on her admiffion into the hofpital file had a confirmed hedlical fever through^ weaknefs and irritation. The ftate of the patient’s health, the magw nitude of the tumour, the uncertainty of its origin, (for it was fuppofed to have arifen from a difeafed bone) made amputation ap- pear the only means of prefervdng life. Upon an examination of the amputated limb, \vhich was previoufly injedled, this tumour was found to have no conneffion with the bone or joint upon which it lay. The lower part of the tumour was covered by a thin capfule, mlide apparently of condenfed cel- lular fubftance, and it was loofely conne6fed \Q the parts on v/hich it lay 3' but on the fur- faceA CLASSIFICATION 26 face of the tumour next the fkin the capfule firmly a'dhered to it in ccnfequence of the inflammation which had taken place. The fubftance of which the tumour was compofed appeared to have been originally of a coagu- lable nature, and the vefTels which ramified throughout it, appeared to be rather large than numerous: yet this appearance might have arifen from an imperfeft injedtion. ' This Angle cafe Is fufficient to convey all the general information on this fubjedf, which I have obtained. It is unneceffary to add parallel inftances, and I am unwilling to load the account with minute particulars, left they fhould obfcure the principal fadfs. Probably from the want of knowledge I may have included, without difcrimination, many va- rieties in this fpecies of tumour j and, per- haps, further obfervations will furnifli more fpecific diftin61;ions in thefe difeafes. The fubjedl is but begun; and the difficulty of the inveftigation will, I hope, apologize for the fmall advances which I have been as yet able to make. Adipofe• OF TUMOURS. 27 Adipoje Sarcoma. This is a very common fpecies of farco- matous tumour, and is formed moft com- monly on the front, or back part of the trunk of the body, and fometimes in the extremities. Although it is generally formed in the mi did of cellular and adipofe fubffance, there can be little doubt that its origin is like that of other tumours j that, in the firft inftance, it was coagulable lymph, rendered vafcular by the growth of velfels into it, and that its future ldru6lure was the confequence of their arrangement and a6fions. That this was the cafe in the pendulous tumours mentioned in the preliminary obfervations (page 9.) feems to be certain. The dildindf origin of fuch tumours is made fufficiently evident, by obferving, that they have always a thin capfule of common cellular fubftance, which feparates them from the contiguous parts. This capfule feems merely to be the efie6l of that condenfation ofA CLASSIFICATION ) of the furrounding cellular fubftance, which the preffure of the tumour occafions. As the ■ growth of adipofe tumours is regularly and llowly progrelTive j as nothing like inflam- mation in general accompanies their increafe; their capfiiles afford a ftriking inftance of an inveflment acquired fimply by a flight con- denfation of the furrounding cellular ftruc- ture, unaffedfed by inflammation. The cap- lule, which is very thin, adheres but flightly to the tumour : and the principal comiedlion appears to be by vefleis, which pafs through it to enter the fubflance of the tumour. Thefe vefleis are fo fmall and the connedlion fo flight, that no difledlion is required to fcpa- rate it; for when the tumour is to be re- moved, the hand of the operator can be eafily introduced between it and its inveftr ment, and it is thus readily turned out of its capfule. The vefleis of adipofe tumours are neither large nor numerous; they are readily torn when the reparation alluded to is attempted, and they fcarcely bleed after it has been effedted. It is natural to fuppofe when the 12 greaterO? TUMOUR&* 31^ greater part of a large tumour has been de- tached, and no veUel of confequence has been divided, that fome principal nutrient artery will afterwards be met with ; and this fuppofition produces an unneceffary hehtation on the part of the operator. There is in- deed no fpecies of tumour that can be re- moved with fo much celerity, with fuch ap- parent dexterity, or with fuch complete fe- Gurity againft future confequences, as thofe of an adipofe nature. In fome inftances, how- ever, when inflammation has been induced, the capfules even of thefe tumours are thickened, and adhere fo as not to be fe- parable without difficulty from their furface. To certify this remark I may mention the cafe of a man who had an adipofe tumour growing beneath the Ikin of the nates, in which the preflure from fitting occafioned inflammation, and this kind of tenacious ad- heflon of the capfule to its furface. This circumflance made the feparation of the fkin from off its furface difficult, when the extir- pation of the tumour was undertaken j but, after that was accompliflied, the bafe of the tumour was lifted up and removed with great facility5® A CLASSIFICATION facility, and almoft without the ufe of the Jknife. The under part of this tumour had not a regular furface, but proje6led in por- tions fo as to have a lobulated appearance > a circumftance which is not unfrequent, and which deferves to be mentioned. From the occurrence of inflammation likewife thefe tumours fometimes adhere to the contir guous parts j of which circumftance the cafe which I am about to relate affords a curious example. I have known feveral fatty tumours grow- ing at the fame time, in different parts of the body of the fame perfon. I fliall take the liberty of giving an ac- count of the extirpation of a very large tu- mour of this kind; as the cafe is particularly interefting, and ftiews that the circumftances ufually met with are unaltered by the fize of the tumour. CASE II. A healthy middle-aged man had a tumour formed apparently beneath the fafcia of his thigh,OF TUMOURS. 3*" thigh, which he remembered when it was no bigger than an egg. It had increafed by a regu- lar and ilow progrefs, in little more than four years, to a very, great magnitude, fuch as may be eafily fuppofed, when it is told, that it weighed, after removal, between fourteen and fifteen pounds. It had been attended with no pain during its increafe, and was now only inconvenient by its bulk. The furgeons who firfi; faw this patient wQuld not undertake any operation, feeling an uncertainty as to the nature and con- nexions of the tumour} though they all agreed that, wlien the fkin gave way, there was but little chance of the poor man’s fur-. viving the confequences of fuch an expofure. Confidering from the hiftory of the cafe, that the tumour muft have been removable in the firfi inftaiicej believing, from its freedom from pain and irritation, that it was of no malignant nature, and that an operation was only alarming from its magnitude; I recom- mended the patient to fee the moft eminent furgeons in London, before he returned in defjpair to the country, from whence he had come32 A CLASSIFICATION come for relief. Mr. Cline gave him more dire6t hopes of fuccefs than he received elfe- where, and he went into St. Thomas’s Hof- pital to fubmit to the operation. When Mr. Cline had divided the fkin and fafeia of the thigh, the tumour was eafily turned out j but it had unfortunately acquired a ligamentous adhelion to the orbicular liga- ment of the hip, which could not be fepa- rated withoutj in fome degree, injuring that part. This attachment appeared to be about half an inch in breadth and about one fourth of an inch in length. The caufe and nature of this firm attachment to the ligament of the hip, feems the only circumfiance peculiar to this cafe, or requiring explanation. It ap- pears to me eafily accounted fotj by fuppofmg the tumour to have compreffed and irritated that part, and thus to have occafioned an ad- hefion, at firfl of a glutinous nature, but which afterwards becoming organized, had afflimed the flrudlure of the parts, from whence it proceeded. In like manner tumours growing near, and comprefTing the furface of hones, frequently occafion a degree of exoflofis. NoOF TUMOUR3. 33 No haemorrhage followed the removal of the tumour. The wound at firft appeared difpofed to "do wellj but the patient became feverifh, and it did not unite by adhelion. There were alfo fome fymptoms indicating inflammation about the hip-joint. The man, however, furmounted thefe difficulties, and, after fome months, was difcharged from the Hofpital. There were two circumftances in the ope- ration attended with danger ; one, the flze of the wound, which could hardly be expedled to unite by adhefion, on account of the irri- tation which, from its extent, muff: be created; the other, this unlucky attachment to the ligament of the joint. It is to be lamented, that a difeafe, fo readily removable in its com- mencement, Ihould have been fuffered to ac- quire a magnitude, which alone was a fource of danger. Since the publication of the firfl: edition of thefe obfervations, I have feen an abfeefs form in the fubfliance of an adipofe tumour. Earthy matter was alfo depofited on the fides of the VOL. IV. D cavity3^' A CLASSIFICATION cavity which had contained the pus. I have alfo fcen ofleous matter depofited within the fubftance of an adipofe tumour. Pancreatic Sarcoma. The next fpecies of farcomatous tumour, which I diall deferibe, refembles in appear- ance the pancreas, and, on that account, may be named (if the etymological import of the word be not confidered as prohibitory) Pan- creatic Sarcoma. This new-formed fubftance is made up of irregularly fhaped maffes; in colour, texture, and lize refembling the larger maftes which compofe the pancreas. They appear alfo to be connecled with each other, like the portions of that gland, by a fibrous fubftance of a loofer texture. This kind of farcoma, though fometimes formed diftinftly in the cellular fubftance, more frequently occurs in the fe- male breaft,. perhaps originating in lymphatic glands j and, as cafes of this kind fufficiently illuftrate its nature and progrefs, and appear more interefting in proportion to the im- portance35 OF TUMOURS. pbrtance of the parts concerned, I (hall feledt fome inftances of it, in this part, to fhew thofe circumftances which feem moft important in the hiftory of this fpecies of farcoma. I fhall, however, firft relate a cafe of this difeafed ftrudlure occurring in the lymphatic glands beneath the lower jaw, and afterwards fpeak of its progrefs, when it takes place in or near to the female breaft. CASE III. A man came to St. Bartholomew’s Hof- pital from Oxfordfhire, with three difeafed lymphatic glands, each of the fize of a very large plum. They were htuated beneath the bafis of the jaw, upon the mylohyoideus mufcle. They refilled the attempts which had been made to difcufs them; and had not been removed from an apprehenfion that a dangerous hiemorrhage would take place in - the operation. The glands had gradually, though very (lowly, attained their prefcnt magnitude, for the difeafe was of fifteen' years duration. The furrounding parts were ■ D 2 not3^ A CLASSIFICATION 6 blood: not afFe6led. Sir Charles Blicke undertook and accompliflied the removal of the dif- eafed gland, the ftrudture of which was exadlly fuch as has been defcribed. This cafe is related in the firft place, as it lliews moll clearly the ufual charadferiftics of this fpecies of difeafed ftrudfure j v/hich are thofe of flowly increaling, of not being prone to in- flammation, or tending to fuppuration. It may not be improper to mention though it is irrelevant to the prefent fubjedl,. that, in the operation, the external maxillary artery was unavoidably divided. It did not, however bleed immediately after the opera- tion, fo that this circumftance was not per- ceived j and the edges of the wound were brought together by one future, and accu- rately and firmly doled by fticking-plafler. Shortly afterwards the patient felt a fenfe of choking, which increafed to a flate almofl: of complete fuffocation. Indeed it feems probable that this might really have happened before any one could have come to his afliftance, had not fome of the plafters fortunately given way, and afforded fome difeharge to the07 TUMOURS. 37 blood: for a very great quantity of coagu- lated blood had colledted within the wound, and comprelTed the tiachea and pharynx to a greater degree than would readily be believed by thofe who had not witnelTed the fa6t. This circumftance is mentioned to fliew the impropriety, when there is any chance of haemorrhage, of clofing wounds fo ftri611y by fticking-plafter, as to allow no exit to any blood that may be effufed ; and it is particu- larly unfafe in circumftances fimilar to thofe of the foregoing cafe. If the haemorrhage be but fmall in quantity, and the efcape of tile blood be prevented, it feparates the fides of the wound which fhould lie in clofe contact, and therebyprev'^ents their immediate union; and, if it be confiderable, it deferves to be remarked, that, fo far is the comprelTion which the confined blood muft make on the arteries, from which it was poured, from flopping the bleeding, that it feems to be a flimulating caufe, exciting an haemorrhagic aflion in the vefTels. This remark is mani- fefted by the prefent, as well as by many other cafes in furgery. D a ThisA CLASSIFICATION 3* This kind of farcoma frequently forms amidft the mammary gland, a little above, and on that fide of the nipple, which is next to the arm. Its appearance would lead one to fuppofe, that it was a lyrnphatic gland^ which is ufually found in that fituation, con- verted into this ftru6lure j but fometimes it feems like a diftin61; tumour. It is the ap- pearance of the capful e which in veils the tumour, that has led me to form thefe opinions. Thefe tumours leflen in bulk if judicioufly treated j but if they cannot be entirely dif- perfed, they increafe gradually: and when they have attained fome confiderable fize, they are generally removed, from apprehen- fion of the confequences which they might produce, if they were fuffered to remain. If the tumour be indolent, and if it increales flowly, the parts furrounding it, and the glands in the axilla are not affe6led. But fome tumours formed by this kind of difeafed flrudlure, which do not unfrequently occur in the bread;, are, contrary to the ordinary properties of fuch difeafes, of a very irritable nature.39 OF TUMOURS. nature, occafioning fevere and lancinating pain, and producing an inflammatory flate of theikin which co,vers them, fo that it be- comes adherent to their furface. They alfo irritate the abforbents leading to the axilla, and produce enlargement of their glands. From thefe circumftances I fufpedf that thefe tumours may be frequently confidered as cancers. Thefe extremely irritable tumours do not generally attain any conflderable mag- nitudej they are reduced in fize by the treat- ment which has been mentioned, but increafe again, when it has been defifted from. Some- times a tumour of this nature, which was irritable in tlie firfl: inflance, becomes in- dolent after the affivity of the difeafe has been checked by proper local applications, but in other cafes the irritability of the difeafe recurs. The pain is lancinating, and fo fevere as to make the patients feveriih, grow faint frequently, and lofe their mufcular ftrength. When the axillary glands become aflecled, one generally fvvells at iirfl:, and is extremely tender and painful j but afterwards the pain abates, and it remains indurated: another then becomes affected, and runs through the D 4 fame40 A classification fame courfe. I remember an inftance where many of the glands attained a confiderable magnitude. The cafe was confidered as can- cerous, and the tumour, which was of the ftru6lure that has been defcribed, and alfo {Ome of the difeafed glands, were removed, but feveral were left, and the patient did well. CASE IV. A young woman, who lived with me as a fervant, fuffered for more than two years fevere pain, and confiderable conflitutional indifpofition, from a tumour of this kind, which had caufed inflammation and enlarge- ment of three of the axillary glands. Being affured that it was not carcinomatous from its diminution under furgical treatment, I waited in hopes that fome beneficial change would fpontaneoufly take place; but, at laff, by her requeft, and, with the coinciding opinion of Sir Charles Blicke, I removed theoriginal tumour, leaving the difeafed glands in the axilla. The fource of irritation being taken away, the glands gradually fubfided, and the patient foon grew fat, and became, and remained remarkably healthy. I have known many fimilar cafes. WheuOF TUMOURS. 4t When the above account was wiitten, I was unacquainted with thofe fa6ls recorded in the firft volume of thefe Obfervations, which fhew that confiderable tumours of the bread: and neighbouring parts, which refift all locally repellent meafures, may be dif- perfed in many inftances readily, by corredt- ing a difordered ftate of the digeftive organs. I have no doubt, but the occafional fits of pain and langour, which were experienced in the cafe juft related, were the effe6ls of irritability of conftitution, and might have been relieved, and prevented, by means that would have given tone and tranquillity to the fyftem. CASE V. A lady, about twenty-feven years of age, had a tumour between the breaft and tl>e axilla, which had gradually increafed during a year and a half to the fize of a goofe egg. Its growth had been accompanied with occa- fional fits of pain. She had a much furred tongue, and coftive bowels. As no difeu- tient remedies had checked the progrefs of the tumour 3 and, as fome apprehenfions that itsA CLASSIFICATION 42 its nature might be malignant were enter- tained, J was requefted to remove it. After I had done fo, on dividing the tumour, its ftru6lure was found to be of that kind which I have defcribed in this feftion j which induced me, for the comfort of the patient, to affure her, that the difeafe was not can- cerous, and therefore not likely to return. The patient refided in the country, and when llie left town, I exhorted her to be very at- tentive to her diet, and to the regulation of the fun6lions of her digeftive organs. After two years, hie came from the country much alarmed, by a good deal of thickening irrita- tion and rednefs, which had taken place in the parts wounded in the operation 3 all of which, however, foon fubhded, under the ap- plication 'of a bread and water poultice dur- ing the night, and the ufe of alterative dofes of mercury. In another year flie returned again frightened by the occurrence of a fwelling, attended with uneafmefs, on the fide oppofite to that on which the operation had been per- formed. The fwelling was fituated between the bread and the axilla, parallel and conti- guousOF TUMOURS. 43 guous to the margin of the pe6foral mufcle. It was as big as a fmall walnut; and, I have no doubt, was caufed by the tumefaftion of an abforbent gland. It was difperfed by the fame treatment that had been inftituted for the irritation which had taken place about the wound. About three years have now elapfed, and though flie has been occafionally alarmed by pains, yet no other manifellations of dif- eafe have appeared. As I have preferved no notes, and do not perfe6fly recolle6l any cafe, of a tumour of this ftrufture -occurring in a diftincl .form, unlefs fome of thofe about the bread: may be fo confidered j and as I wifli to fhew that all thefe difeafes occur diftin6lly as well as in glands, I lhall, as an inftance of a pan- creatic appearance in a diftin6l tumour, refer the reader to the curious Cafe publifhed in London by Dr. Bouttatz of Mofeow, of a tumour which grew beneath the conjun6liva of the eye, and protruded it between the eyelids. The tumour was feven inches long and three inches and a half in circumference, and weighed two pounds and a half. The ftru(5ture.44 ^ CLASSIFICATION ftniclure, which is reprefented in a plate, anfwers corre6lly to that which I have de- nominated pancreatic; and it had alfo the ordinary charadters of tliis difeafed ftrudlure, which are thofe of flowly and regularly in- creafing, not being prone to inflammation, nor tending to fuppuration. The tumour, as might be naturally fuppofed, was clofely con- ne6led with the tunica conjun6tiva againfl: which it prelTed, but tire bafe of it was cafily elevated from the cornea v/hich {fill retained its, natural tranfparency, and the patient regained his fight on its removal. CyJUc Sarcoma, The next fpecies of farcomatous tumour, as it contains cells or cyflis, may be named Cyflic Sarcoma; and this fpecies will be ' found to comprehend varieties. This fpecies fometimes occurs as a diilindt tumour, but is more frequently met with in the teftis and ovary. In one kind of difeafe of the teflis, the part is perhaps enlarged to fix times its natural fize, and confiflis of a con- geries of cells, containing a ferous fluid; theirOF TUMOURS. 4S tlieir fize is that of currants or grapes, but of an oval figure. The fides of the cyfiis are fo vafcular as to .be made red by injeftion ; and fometimes the injection is even effufed and tinges the contents of the cyfl. * Dr. Bailhe has favoured us with an elegant and correct reprefentation of this difeafe, in his Series of Engravings intended to illuftrate the Morbid Anatomy of fome of the moft important Parts of the Human Body*. I have known this alteration of firudture the confequence of a blow received on the part; but, in general, it occurs without evident injury. The firm or farcomatous part of an ovary affords a good fpecimeii of the ftructure I am defcribing; the cells are here much larger, and are lb vafcular as' to be made quite red by injection. To fhew that this Ifrucfure is not pe- culiar to thefe parts, I may mention the fol- following cafe : a tumour was taken from the face of a boy by Sir Charles Blicke, which, when divided, was found to confift entirely .* Fic/e FMc. 8. Plate 8. Fig. 2. \ ofA CLASSIFICATION ' 4^ of an affemblage of cells filled with a watery, yet coagulable fluid. In the teftis, cyfts are not unfrequently found,containing a kind of cafeous fubftance. In this cafe too, the fides of the cyfl: are vaf- cular. The cyfts are generally large, and fbmetimes there is but one. I have called the fubftance cafeous, becaufe it refembles cheefe in confiftence, and in colour; being of a yellowifli caft, and of an un61:uous ap- pearance ; but it is not at all un6f uous to the touch.. It may be proper to mention, that this cafeous fubftance is fometime irregularly diftributed throughout the vafcular fubftance of a difeafed teftis, withoilt being confined in diftinft cyfts. I believe this kind of far- cocele is particularly unyielding to medical 'treatment. - Mammary Sarcoma. There is a fpecies of farcomatous tumouj:, which indeed I have not frequently met with, but which fo ftrikingly refembles the mammary gland in colour and texture, that, o wiihiiig47 OF TUMOURS. wifhing to diftinguifli it on account of the following cafe, I have named it Mammary Sarcoma. I have feen this fubftance (which is white and firm, and has a fimilarity of appearance throughout) in the midft of adipofe tu- mours; but my attention was not particu- larly excited to it till the following cafe occurred. CASE VI. A moderately healthy middle-aged woman came from the country to St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital on account of a tumour of the fize of a very large orange, which had grown gradually on the front of her thigh: it lay beneath the integuments and above the fafcia. It was removed by an operation, and the in- teguments covering the tumour were alfo taken away, as in the removal of the can- cerous bread:. The fides of the wound were brought together by fticking-plalfer, and, at firft, feemed difpofed to heal; but afterwards a confiderable induration of the furrounding paj'ts took place, and the wound degenerated intoA CLASSIFICATION 48 into a malignant ulcer, which fpread exten- fively, and was incorrigible by any medical means employed. As the ulcer fpread, fo, in the fame proportion, did the hardnefs of the parts which furrounded it. The pain and fever fo exhauflred the patient, that in about two months Ihe died. This tumour, the appearance of which was exa6lly of the kind that has been defcribed, feemed to have no diftinft capfule, but to be gradually loft in the ftirrounding parts. The whole of the difeafed part feemed to have been removed, yet it is probable that the con- tiguous parts had a difpofition to difeafe, which was aggravated, and rendered more malignant, by the injury of the operation. Could the circumftances have been forefeen, it might have been right to have removed the parts furrounding this tumour more exten- fively, as fuggefted in one of the preliminary obfervations. There is a fimilar kind of difeafed ftruc- ture, but of a fofter texture, which is fre- quently found as a diftin6l tumour, or in » glandularOF TUMOURS. 49 glandular parts perhaps; which might, with propriety, be confidcred as a variety of the fame fpecies of farcoma. It has the fame uniformity of furface, but it is not always of a white colour, being occafionally of a brownifli or reddifli tint. I have feen a fub- fiance of this kind forming a tumbur fur- rounding and comprefling the oefophagus,and caufing a contradlion of that tube. I have feen this kind of farcoma in glandular parts, in which the progrefs and event of the cafe did not indicate the difeafe to be of a noxious nature. The general refult of my obferva- tions, however, has induced me to believe, that this difeafed flrufture is prone to dege- nerate into an intradlable ulcer, which will communicate its difeafe to the furrounding parts, and I have therefore placed this fpecies of farcoma between thofe which feem to pofTefs no malignity, and thofe which follow, and which are of a very deflrudlive nature. I add the relation of a Cafe which oc- curred at St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, fine? the publication of the former edition of th;s j)aper. VDL. IV. F. CASE$9 A CLASSIFICATION CASE VII. A woman about fifty years of age, had a tumour growing beneath the fkin of the perinaeum, that by the fide of the reftum, and that which is external to the labium. It was about feven inches in length, about two in breadth, and defcended as low as the middle of the thigh. Sir Charles Blicke re- moved it, by dividing the fkin on either fide of the tumour length-wife, at the upper part of it. He then diffedfed out the upper part ' of the tumour, which was thin, from beneath the divided integuments, and brought the parallel edges of the fkin together by two futures. The tumours when removed, being divided, appeared firm, white, and fmooth, and ftrikingly refembling the mammary gland. It had no diflinft capfule, The in- teguments adjoining to the tumour inflamed, and indurated, and ulcerated, and a very large'and foul fore was formed. The patient’s health became greatly deranged, fo that little or no hopes were entertained of her recovery. However, after a time, the difeafe ceafed to fpread, and at the end of about three weeks began• Ot TUMOURS. 5^ began to amend. The conftitution became tranquil in proportion, and the fore flowly healed. Tuberculated Sarcoma. The next fpecies of farcoma, which I have to defcribe, may be named Tuberculated Sar- coma. It confifts of an aggregation of fmall, firm, roundifh tumours, of different fizes and colours, conne6fed together by a kind of cellular fubftance. The fize of the tubercles is from that of a pea to that of a horfe-bean, or fometimes larger j the colour of a brownifh red, and fome are of a yellowifh tint. In Dr. Baillie’s Plates there is one of the tubercu- lated liver which exprelTes the appearance of this kind of farcoma as well as can poflibly be done by an engraving. The inftances which I have feen have been chiefly in the lymphatic glands of the neck. The tumours have ulcerated j have become painful and intractable fores 3 and have de- • Vide Fafc. 5. Plate a. E 2 ftroyedA classification 5* ftroyed the patient. The difeafe appears to poflKs ^ very malignant nature. CASE VIII. A remarkable cafe of this kind occurred in St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital in 1797. A man between forty and fifty years of age had a large tumour at the fide of his neck, be-? neath the platyfma myoides. It meafured , about eight inches in length, and four in. breadth. It was hard and irregular on the furface, feeming like a clufter of difeafed lymphatic glands. It was extremely painful, and had greatly impaired his health. He affirmed that it had not been more than fix months fince its firft appearance, and in the courfe of this time, numerous fmall tumours of fimilar denfity and ftrudture had grown beneath the fkin all over the trunk of the body, but chiefly on the neck and abdomen. The fkin and the front of the tumour in the neck had ulcerated, and become a painful phagedaenic fore; and the patient died with hedtic fever, in about fix weeks after his ad- miffion into the hofpital. The ftrudture of all the tumours was alike, and fuch as has beent)F TUMOURS* 53 ' been defcribed: the body was examined by the ftudents of the hofpital, Vvdio faid that there were no tubercles on the vifcera, as there commonly are in cafes of this difeafe.—> As this difeafe is uncommon, it may not be improper to relate another cafe on which I was confulted in the courfe of the laft year, CASE IX* A gentleman had a tumour in the lym- phatic glands of the axilla, which he had taken notice of about a month, and which was fuppofed to be of a fcrofulous nature. I was confulted as to the propriety of his going to the fea-fide. The tumour was of the fize of an egg, and its furface was irre- gular from the projedlion of numerous tu- bercles. This circumftance ftruck me, and led me to enquire if he had no other little tumours in the Ikin. He told me there was. one in the groin, which appeared on exami- nation to be a diftin6f tubercle ; and on fur- ther enquiry, I found that the glands above the ' collar-bone, by the fide of the neck, E 3 ' were54 A CLASSIFICATION were in fonie degree affedled. I had no doubt of the riature of the difeafe, and told the phyfician, that, in my opinion, it would terminate fatally. After about a fortnight, when I faw the patient again, thefe tubercles had multiplied all over the fkin, both in the front and back part of the bodyj they were hard and painful, and gave him the fenfation as if he was lying on a number of hobnails. The difeafe in the glands, both below and above the collar-bon"e, had greatly increafed, and the arm was very oedematous. The difeafe progreflively increafed j the Ikin fcemed to peel off in thin floughs from the furface of the enlarged glands in the axilla; but no floughiiig or ulceration had taken place in the tumour when the patient d'ed, which was about five weeks after I firfl faw him. On examining the body, the tubercles every where had the appearance which has been defcribed; and many fimi- lar tubercles were found on the furface of the lungs, heart, liver, fpleen, omen* turn, and mefentery. The abforbent glands of the mefentery, and the other inter- 15 nalOF TUMOURS. 55 nal abforbent glands were, however, un- affected. Since the above account was written, I examined a body in which fuch tubercles were found very generally fcattered beneath the fkin. The patient was faid to have died of a cancerous uterus, and the cervix was in a ftateof ulceration. The whole uterus wa» difeafed, and the parietes were an inch in thicknefs. The difeafe, however, was not carcinomatous. From this cafe, as well as from others, which are related, it appears, that the fame diforder of the general health may produce local difeafes of a diflimilar ap- pearance or nature*. Pulpy • * Since ihe publication of the former edition, I have feen a cafe, which is to me fo fingular, that I wilh briefly to mention it. A gentleman had a fpot in the (kin, op- pofite to the inferior angle of the fcapula. It had the appearance of one of thofe fpots called petechise. It en- larged, thickened, and ulcerated. The ulcer became foul and intradtable, and the patient came to London with his health much difordered, apparently from local irri- tation. The axillary glands became afFedted, and enlarged to a confiderable fize, and fuppurated. Smaller fpots refembling petechia: came out in various parts of Ids body. E 4 HeA CLASSIFICATION* 5^^ Pulpy or Medullary Sarcoma. The farcoma which is next to be defcribed is generally found in the teftis, and is dif- tinguiflied by the name of the foft cancer of that part. The term cander is objedfionable, becaufe it conveys an erroneous idea of its nature; for this difeafe, though perhaps equally deftrudfive, will be fhewn to be unlike cancer in its nature and progrefs. The tumour, in thofe cafes of the difeafe which I have moft frequently met with, has been of a whitifli colour, refembling, on a He took medicines with a view to regulate and improve the fun£Hons of his digeftive organs, which were much difordered. His general health improved, and under this change the original ulcer greatly amended in its appearance ; the fpots remained fbationary; the parts in the axilla becam.e fo far found, as to make it nearly cer- tain that they had been afFefted only by common irritation, and not by a fpecific difeafe. This tranquil (late lafled about fix weeks, when the original ulcer became worfe ; and by the aggravation of that difeafe, without any in- creafe of the others, his powers became exhaufted, and he died. general57 OF TUMOURS. general and diftant infpedHon, the appearance of the brain. The difeafe is ufually of a pulpy confiffencej and I have, therefore, been induced to diftinguifh it by the name of medullary farcoma. Although I have more frequently met with this difeafe of a whitifli colour, yet I have often feen it of a brownifli red appearance. Which is moft common I cannot decide : the ftrudlure and feel of both are the fame, and their progrefs is alfo fimilar j they are therefore to be con- fidered as varieties of one fpecies. The fliorteft way in which I can communicate a knowledge of this difeafe, and render thofe remarks, which I have to make on it intelli- gible, will be, by relating a cafe in which it proceeded to a very confiderable extent before it deftroyed the patient. CASE X. A tall thin healthy-looking man, of about forty years of age, had, about fifteen years before, a fwelled tefticle from a gonorrhaea > the epididymis remained indurated. Six years afterwards it became enlarged, and a hydro- cele at the fame time formed. Half a pint ofA CLASSiFICATlOl^- of water was difcharged by a pundlure, but itiflammation fucceeded the operation, and ' this teftis became very large. An abfcefs formed, and burft in the front of the fcrotum, and the teftis fubfided in fome degree. Mer- cury was employed to reduce it, but without effeft. The part, however, was indolent, and gave the patient no trouble but from its bulk. About a year afterwards a gland enlarged in the left groin (the fame fide as the teftis) t another then became fwoln in the right groin, and, in the courfe of two years, feveral glands in each groin had obtained a very confider- able magnitude. At this period he was ad- mitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, under the care of Mr. Long. The teftis was, at this time, between four or five inches in length, and about three in breadth j it refembled its natural form, and was indolent in its difpo- lition. The fpermatic chord was thickened, but not much indurated. Four or five glands were enlarged in the groin on both fides j each of which was of the fize of a very large orange; and, when obferved together, they formedST OF TUMOURS. formed a tumour of very uncommon fhapc and magnitude. They gradually increafed in fize.for feveral months, till at laft the Ikin appeared as if unable to contain them any longer. It be- came thin, inflamed, and,ulcerated; firfl in the left groin, and- expofed one of the mofl:^ prominent tumours. The expoled tumour inflamed and Houghed progreflively, till if entirely came away. As the Houghing ex- pofed its veflels, which were large, they bled profufely, infomuch that the ftudents endea- voured, but.in vain, to fecure them by liga- tures : for the fubftance of the tumour was cut through, and torn away in the attempt. Preflu re by the finger, continued for fome time, was the only effeftual mode of reftrain- ing this haemorrhage. The lofs of one gland relieved the dif- tended Hein, which had only ulcerated on the moft prominent part of the tumour, and had not become difeafed. It now loft its inflamed afped j granulations formed, and a cicatrix took place. In the oppofite groin a fimilar occur-6o A CLASSIFICATION occurrence happened. One gland, expcfed by the ulceration of the Ikin, houghed out,, being attended by the circumftances juft re- cited. However before the Ikin was cicatrized, ulceration had again taken place in the right groin, in confequence of the great diftenfion of the fkin from the growth of the tumour j and houghing had begun in the tumour, when the patient, whofe vital powers had long been greatly exhaufted, died. The teftis was inje6led, and, when divided, was found to be of a whitihi colour, and moderately firm confiftence, and was made red by the injedfion in various parts. The tumour formed by the inguinal glands on each fide was as large as a man’s head, and the ftrudfure was very hmilar to that of the tef- tis, but more pulpy. On opening the body the pelvis was almoft filled' with hmilarly difeafed glands, and the vertebrse were hidden by others as high up as the diaphragm^ The difeafe in the upper ones was not, how- ever, fo far advanced as in the others : fome of the former, which lay clofe to the dia- phragm, and were not larger than a walnut,- 9 being.6i OF TUMOURS. being cut into, a thick fluid, refembling cream in colour and conflflence, efcaped, and was exprefled, and the gland was left a con- texture of loofe fibrous fubftance. The ftate of the glands newly affe61:ed fliews, that the adlions of this difeafe caufe a fecretion of fluid like cream ; that this fluid acquires conflflence during its refidence in the part; and that it is the caufe of the in- creafe of fize in the gland. The profufe Iiaemorrhage, which took place during the floughing, fhews that there is an increafe of veffels proportionate to the augmentation in bulk of the difeafed part. The Ample ulcer- ation of the fkin from diflenfion, and the fubfequent healing of the ulcer fliew, that this morbid affedlion is unlike carcinoma, which communicates its difeafe to all conti- guous parts: neither has it the hardnefs nor the difpofition to ulcerate, which charac- terize cancer. The general difeafe of the abforbing glands fliews, that the difeafed affion is readily propagated in the courfe of thofe fufceptible veffels j and the glands of the pelvis being affeaed equally with thofe higher6s A CLASSIFICATION higher up, renders it probable that it in- duces the difeafe, as well by imparting irri- tation to them, as by furnilliing a matter capable of ftimulating them when they have imbibed it; an opinion that will be more ftrikingly verified by the next cafe which I ihall relate This fpecies of farcoma, though it ufually affe61;s the teftis, occafionally occurs in other parts. 1 fhall authenticate this fa6f by the brief relation of another cafe, which will ferve alfo to throw additional light on the nature and progrefs of this difeafe, CASE XI. A boy, about twelve years of age, was brought to the Hofpital for advice, on ac- count of a tumour in the front of his thigh; * The progrefs of what is called the feirrhous teftis, is fimilar to that of the difeafe which I am deferibing, and of courfe very different from that of genuine carcinoma. It is not improbable, that from the fimilarity'of the pro- grefs of thefe two difeafes, and the equal fatality having been remarked, they firft acquired the contrafted names of foft and hard cancers of the teftis. itOF TUMOURS. it had been growing three or four months^ and had then attained the fize of a large orange. The bafe of it was fituated clofe upon the bone. It increafed, notwithftand- ing applications that were employed to dif- perfe it, and the patient became confined to his bed. After fome time the leg became cedematous to a very great degree; the in- guinal glands were enlarged, but not in a de- gree proportionate to the oedema, none of them having attained to more than the fize of a fmall walnut. The parts in the ham were alfo confiderably fwoln. In a fhort time the caufe of the great degree of oedema was manifefted; for the lower part of the abdomen became diftended by a tumour, that feemed to rife out of the pelvis and comprefs the iliac veffels. The boy’s health, as may be fuppofed, gradually declined, and, when ' the difeafe had attained to this (late, he died, • On examining the parts it was found, that the tumour, though it lay clofe to the periof- teum of the thigh bone, had no connexion with it i that it was in ftrudture like the dif- eafe64 A CLASSIFICATION cafe laft defcribed 3 and that the difeafe had extended, through the medium, and in the courfe of the abforbing veffels, downwards to the ham, where the glands were enlarged and formed a conhderable tumour 3 and up- wards into the pelvis, where the internal iliac glands more than filled one fide of that ea^ vity, rifihg out of it, as has been faid, fo as to diftend the lower part of the abdomen. The difeafe had alfo extended fo as flightly to affe6l the lumbar glands. The tumours in the ham and pelvis weie of the fame ftruc- ture as the original tumour. The in- guinal glands, though affedted apparently by the fame difeafe, were not confiderably enlarged, • This cafe alfo fliews the uncommon faci- lity with which this difeafe is propagated along the abforbing veffels 3 and its having extended downwards to the ham, as well as upwards into the pelvds, confirms the opi- nion, that it extends itfelf by imparting irri- tation to the veffels, as well as, perhaps, by fiirnifliing a matter which, if imbibed, may communicate the fame irntation. I have,'o? TUMOURS.' . ^5 I have mentioned, as a variety of this dif- eafe, that in which the colour is different, it being between a brown and that of the blood j bat in texture and organization it does not appear diflimilar. It feems therefore as if the difeafed aftion caufed the fecretion of a fluid, fometimes of a milky, fometimes of a more dufky huej which gradually acquires folidity, and augments the bulk of the part. The difeafed part acquires in general a con- fiderable folidity when it has continued for fome time, fo as fcarcely to deferve the names of foft cancer, or medullary farcoma. - The hardnefs is alfo, in fome inftances which I have feen, increafed, apparently by a thick- ening of the cellular fubflance which per- vades the gland. It feems probable, however, that the fame kind of difeafed action may not be always followed by the like alteration of flrudfure, in the part which it affefts. Mr. Aftley Cooper, in his Paper on Obftrudlions of the Thoracic Du6f, mentions an inftance in which matter imbibed from a teftis affedled Mith a difeafe like the prefent, obftru6led VOL.IV. F thatA CLASSIFICATION 66 that veffel. His defcription of the teftis is, that it was a pulpy mafs, compofed of broken coagulable lymph, and blood-coloured ferum I remember one inftance of the inguinal and lumbar glands being affedfed with a dif- eafe fimilar to thofe juft defcribed, from a difeafed teftis of a different ftrudfure. The teftis was removed in the Hofpital, and was found much enlarged, and vafcular through- out, except where fome foft cheefe-like mat- ter was depofited. Some of the inguinal glands’ enlarged, ulcerated, and floughed out, and the wound feemed difpofed to heal. The lumbar glands were affedted, became ex- tremely painful, and the patient being pre- vioufly much exhaufted, funk under this laft > complaint. He had been removed to fome diftance from the Hofpital, and I could not obtain permiflion to examine the. body till four days after his deceafe. 1 took out the lumbar * Vide Medical Records and Refearches, p. 96. glands67 OF TUMOURS. glands and put them in water j and, the weather being extremely hot, when I exa- mined them the next day, I found that all the unorganized depofited matter which had enlarged them, had become putrid, and was waflied away, leaving the capfule of the gland, and a congeries of flocculent fibres occupying the interior part of it: thefe were • doubtlefs the veflels and connedling cellular^ fubflance of the glands, not indurated (as I have feen it in fome other inftances) by in- flammation. In the advanced ftage of this difeafe, fome- times lymphatic glands out of the courfe of abforption, and of the participation of irrita- tion, become affedled with the fame difeafe ; and a fecretion of this thick cream or bloody- coloured fluid takes place on the furface, or in portions, even in the liver or lungs, or other vifcera. I have heard this circumftance accounted for, by fuppofmg that the abforp- tion of the matter depofited in the originally difcafcd parts was fo abundant as to induce the neceflity of depofiting it in various places; but it fcems to me more rational to attribute F 2 itA CLASSIFICATION 68 it to the prevalence of the fame difeafed difpofition throughout the body. For we frequently find, that folid tumours of fimi- lar ftru6lure exift in various parts of the fame fubje6l> and fometimes^ they rapidly ^multiply as the difeafe advances; as was mentioned in the cafe which is related of ' tuberculated farcoma. Carcinomafom Sarcoma. The laft fpecies of farcomatous tumour which I have to defcribe, is the Carcinoma- tous. It is not here defigned to give a full or diftindt hiftory of Carcinoma,. but only a general and comparative account of thofe cir- cumftances in which it refembles or differs from other tumours. This kind of tumour, on account of its peculiar hardnefs, is em- phatically termed Scirrhus, while it remains entire and free from ulceration. ■ But the word fcirrhus is frequently applied to other indurations, and it feems better, in order to avoid ambiguity, to ufe the fame term to denote all the ifages of this difeafe, naming it carcinoma, in the firft place, and ulcerated carcinoma when tliat change has occurred. This69 OF TUMOURS. This difeafe is not, in every inftance, fo pecu- liarly hard as to entitle it to the name i fcirrhus j and however indurated it may be, it ftill muft be accounted a kind of flefliy tumour; therefore I may be allowed to call it carcinomatous farcoma. I fliall arrange the obfervations which I have to offer under three heads : iff, The hiftory of carcinoma, 2dly, Its anatomical ftru6ture; and, 3dly, I fliall compare this difeafe with others wliich refemble it. I fliall fuppofe the carcinoma to arife in the female bread:, as there it mofl: frequently occurs, and can be befl: inveftigated. It fometimes condenfes the furrounding fubflance fo as to acquire a capfule; and then it appears, like other farconiatous tumours, to be a part of new formation; in other cafes the mammary gland feems to be the nidus for this difeafed a6Uon. The boundaries of the difeafe cannot be accurately afcertained in the latter cafe, as the carcinomatous ftrudture, having no diftinguifliable inveflment, is con- fufed with the reft of the gland. In either F 3 inftance70 A CLASSIFICATION inftance carcinoma begins in a fmall fpot and extends in its progrefs from thence in all direc- tions, like rays from a centre. This obferva- tion will ferve to diftinguifli it from many other difeafes which, at their firft attack, in- volve a confiderable portion, if not the whole of the part, where they occur. The progrefs of carcinoma is more or lefs quick in different inftances. When flow, it is in general un- remitting j at leaft I am inclined to think that the difeafe, though it may be checked, can- not be made to recede by that medical treat- ment which leffens the bulk .of other farco- matous tumours. This circumftance affords, in my opinion, another criterion, by which it may in general be diffinguiflied. This obdurate and deffrudtive difeafe excites the contiguous parts, whatever their nature may be, to the fame difeafed adlion. The Ikin, the cellular fubflance of mufcles, and the periofteum of bones all become affedted, if they are in the vicinity of cancer. This very flriking circumftance in the hiftory of carcinoma diftinguiflies it from moft of the difeafes already deferibed. In the pulpy far- coma the difeafe is propagated along the ab- forbing71 OF TUMOURS. forblng fyftem, but the parts immediately in contadl with the enlarged glands do not afllime the fame difeafed aftions. Neither in the tuberculated fpecies does the ulceration fpread along the fkin, but deftroys that part only where it covers the difeafed glands. It was obferved by Mr. Hunter that a dif- pofition to cancer exifts in the furrounding parts, prior to the a6lual occurrence of the difeafed adlion. This remark, which is veri- fied by daily experience, led to the following rule in praftice: “ That a furgeon ought not to be contented with removing merely the indurated or aclually difeafed part, but that he fliould alfo take away fome portion of the furrounding fubftance, in which a difeafed difpofition may probably have been excited.” In confequence of this communication of difeafe to the contiguous parts, the fkin foon becomes indurated, and attached to a carci- nomatous tumour, which, in like manner, becomes fixed to the mufcles, or other parts over which it was formed. F 4 As I iA CLASSIFICATION 7* a carcinomatous tumour iiicreafes, it generally, though not conftantly, becomes unequal upon its furface, fo that this inequa- lity has been confidered as charadleriftic of the difeafe j and it is a circumftance which deferves much attention. A lancinating pain in the part frequently accompanies its growth j but in fome cafes this pain is want- ing. It attends alfo on other tumours, the ftrudture of which is unlike carcinoma; of which I have given an inftance in fpeaking of pancreatic farcoma. This cannot there- fore be confidered as an infallible criterion of the nature of the difeafe. In that kind of cancer, from which this de- fcription is taken, the difeafed Ikin cover- ing a carcinomatous tumour generally ulce- rates, before the tumour has attained any great magnitude j a large chafm is then pro- duced in its fubftance by a partly Houghing, and partly ulcerating procefs. Sometimes, when cells contained in the tumour are by this means laid open, their contents (which confifl; of a pulpy matter of different degreesOF TUMOURS, 73 of confiftence, and various colours) fall out, and an excoriating ichor diftils from their lides. This difcharge takes place with] a celerity, which would almoft induce a per- fon ignorant of the facility with which fecre- tion is performed, to believe that it cannot be produced by that proccfs. When the difeafed adlions have, as it were, exhauffed themfelves by their vehemence, an attempt at reparation appears to take place, fimilar to that which occurs in healthy parts. New flefh is formed, conftituting a fungus of peculiar hardnefs, as it partakes of the dif- eafed a6fions by which it was produced. This difeafed fungus occafionally even cicatrizes. But though the adlions of the difeale are tl;us mitigated, though th^ may be for fome time indolent and ftationary, they never ceafe, nor does the part ever become healthy. In the mean while, the difeafe extends through the medium of the abforbing veffels, and the glands in the axilla become affedled. The progrefs of carcinoma in an abforbent gland is the fame as that which has been al- ready74 A CLASSIFICATION ready defcribed. The difeafe is communi- cated from one gland to another, fo that after all the axillary glands are afFe^ed, thofe that lie under the collar-bone at the lower part of the neck, and upper part of the cheft become difordered. Occafionally a gland or two become difeafed higher up in the neck, and apparently out of the courfe which the abforbed fluids would take. The abforbent glands, in the courfe of the internal mam- mary veflels, become affedled as the difeafe continues. In the advanced ftage of car- cinoma a number of fmall tumours, of fimi- lai' flrufture to the original difeafe, form at feme diftance, fo as to make a kind of irre- gular circle round it. PIere it is no wonder that I conclude the account of the dreadful effedfs of this perni- cious difeafe. For when it has done fo much mifehief, the ftrongeft conftitutions fink un- der the pain and irritation which the difeafe creates, aggravated by the obftru6lion, which it oecafions to the fundlions of abforption in thofe parts,, the veffels of which lead to the difeafed glands. Towards the conclufion of theOF TUMOURS. 75 the difeafe the patient is generally affected with difficulty of breathing and a cough. In cafes where the external difeafe has been re- moved, the fame fymptoms of difordered re- fpiration take place, and the patients die of internal difeafes. It has been a fubje6t of debate and con- fideration, whether the difeafe of the abforb- ent glands, which takes place in carcinoma, be the effedt of the ftimulus of matter im- bibed by thofe velfels from the original dif- eafe, or of irritation propagated along them. The reafon for fuppofmg that no poifon is imbibed is, that if it were conveyed into the blood, it would produce general difeafe in the conftitution j but no more fever or general diforder is found to exifl in carcinoma than what would naturally be produced by the irritation which the affe6led parts occafion. It does not feem effential to my prefent defign to difeufs this fubjedt at length: it is however right to obferve, that we fcarcely ever fee glands difeafed out of the courfe which the abforbed matter would naturally take, though they are affefted in this manner in difeafes which 10A CLASSIFICATION 76 which can be propagated by irritation. When the glands of the axilla are obftru61:ed by difeafe, the abforbed matter will pafs by anaftomofing channels, into the internal mammary abforbents, and if occafionally one or two glands in the neck are found difeafed, they may become affedled in the fame man- ner, by the fluids being obliged to take a cir- cuitous route There is another circumflance in thehiftory of cancer which deferves attention and invefti- gation; that is. Whether a difeafe not ori- ginally cancerous can become fo in its pro- grefs ? We can only form our .opinions on this fubjeff from analogy and obfervation. Analogy leads us to believe, that fuch an alteration in the difeafed actions may readily take place. Venereal buboes often change their nature after the adminiftration of mer- cury, and become troublefome fores, to which '* It may be proper to enquire, whether thofe tumours, which arife in the circumference of carcinoma, are not caufed by the abforbent matter being made to flop for a time in the veflels, and thus to afford that irritation which induces difeafe in them and the contiguous parts ? 15 that77 OF TUMOURS. that medicine is rather detrimental than be- neficial. Injuries induce inflammation and enlargement of parts, which afterwards de- generate into fcrofulous difeafes. But, though analogy feems fo ftrongly to favour the opinion, I cannot take upon myfelf to fay, that my obfervations have confirmed it. When tumours have been removed, the hiftory of which correfponded to that of can- cer, a cancerous ftrudlure was obferved in them j and, on the contrary, in difeafes of an apparently different nature, a different organization has been found. I once, in- deed, affifted at an operation where the tu- mour was of that kind which I have deno- minated pancreatic ; and I heard afterwards, that the patient died in the country of a difeafe which was reputed cancerous. Again, in inveftigating this fubjedl, it deferves to be remarked, and every furgeon muff, I be- lieve, be familiarly acquainted with this fadt, that many difeafed tumours remain in the breafl: for a great length of time, perhaps during life, without undergoing any change in their nature; or, in other words, without becoming cancerous. ItA CLASSIFICATION 78 It is difficult to convey coiTe6l ideas of the ftru6lure of carcinoma by words, or even by drawings. In the generality of inftances the difeafed part is peculiarly hard, and there are intermixed with it firm whitifh bands, fuch as Dr. Baillie has defcribed and reprefented in his Book and Plates of Morbid Anatomy. There is indeed no other ftriking circum- Ifance, which can be mentioned as conftantly claiming attention in the firruffure of this difeafe. Thefe firm whitifii bands fometimes extend in all dire6lions from the middle to- wards the circumference of a carcinomatous tumour, like rays from a centre, having little intervening matter. Sometimes they inter- fe6l it irregularly; having interpofed be- tween them a firm brownilh fiibftance, which may be fcraped out with the finger. Some- times they form cells containing a pulpy matter of various colours and confiftence; and fometimes thefe bands aflume an ar- borefcent arrangement, ramifying through the difeafed fubftance. Firm white bands, like thickened and com- pa6l cellular fubftance, are feen as the dif- eafe79 OF TUMOURS, cafe advances, to extend themfelves from the original tumour amidft the fat in which it is occafionally imbedded, intercepting portions of fat in the irregular areolae which they form. This circumftance deferves conhdera- tion on account of its pradlical application; for if, after removing a carcinomatous tu- mour, the furgeon attends to the part which has been taken away, he will fee if any of thefe bands have been cut through, and, confequently, whether fome of this difealcd fubftance, which ought to be removed, has not been accidentally left. This circum- ftance cannot be obferved by looking at the bleeding furface of the wound, but may be readily afcertained by examining the part which has been removed. Thefe are the chief circumftances, which I think fufficiently chara6terize carcinoma, and diftinguifh it from other farcomatous tu- mours. The account of them is brief, and much has been omitted, becaufe it was not defigned particularly to difcufs the fubjedl of carcinoma, but merely to point out its dif- tinguilhing chara6lers. I now proceed to fpeakA CLASSIFICATION jfpeak of difeafes refembling cancer; though, in fo doing, I fliall digrefs a little from the principal fubjeft of this paper, that is, to defcribe the diftinguilhable kinds of farcomatous tumours, and give their hiftojy. \ According to the preceding account, car- cinoma, begins in a fmall fcirrhus, which gradually enlarges and afterwards ulcerates. It does fo in the breaft, lip, tongue, and cer- vix uteri; yet it may be enquired if it does fo in every inftance. Parts fometimes fuper- ficially ulcerate at firft, and afterwards acquire furrounding hardnefs, and ftrikingly refemble carcinoma, if they do not ftridlly deferve that name. This is the way in which fome of thofe difeafes proceed, which occur near the fide of the nofe or eye, and which gradually deftroy the parts in which they are fituated, and cannot be cured by any mode of local or general treatment. The intelligent reader will not fufpedt me of confounding thefe more malignant difeafes with fome herpetic ulcera- tions of the nofe; in which the morbid actions gradually ceafe, and the firft affedted partsOt? TUMOURS. Si parts get well whilft the furrounding parts become difeafed. I have known difeafes be- ginning in ulceration, and followed by in- duration, and the growth of fungus extend themfelves unremittingly, fo as to deftroy the patient. I have feen difeafes of this defcription occur in the labia pudendi, fome of which have terminated fatally, whilft others were removed even at an advanced period of the difeafe with fuccefs. Here fome additional difcriminating cir- cumftances feem to be wanted, by which wc may diftinguilh between thefe ulcers and common carcinoma. I have never remarked, that fuch ulcers have affedted the abforbent glands, though I do not feel affured that this occurrence never takes place. It therefore remains to be detennined by future cafes, how far this circumftance may enable us to decide on the nature of thefe difeafes. I fhall next relate the principal circumftances of a remarkable cafe of this kind of difeafe, which will ferve to elucidate the fubjedl, and alfo to exhibit a fpecimen of the difeafes to which I allude. « VOl. lY. CASEA CLASSIFICATION? 82 CASE XII. A man was admitted into St. Bartholo- mew’s Hofpital with a tumour beneath the jaw, having a great degree of furrounding hardnefs, and containing three cells, like thofe of carcinomatous tumours. The hiftory which he gave of the difeafe was very curi- ous : he faid that a rednefs took place fuper- ficially in the fkin, which gathered and burff, and difcharged good matter; that the open- ' ing enlarged, and the furrounding parts in- durated, and thus produced an appearance like a cell in a carcinomatous tumour; then, another portion of fldn became difeafed in the fame manner,' and with the fame confe- quences, till, by degrees, the general tumour had acquired its prefent magnitude. To the truth of this account we had an opportunity , of bearing teftimony; for this occurrence ' took place twice in fucceffion during his re- fidence in the Hofpital j and thus two more cells were added to the general mafs. The inflammation of the fkin, and the fuppura- tion, which was healthy in appearance, took j place beneath the tumour, and made it reach 11 almofl:OF TUMOURS. S3 almoft as low as the fternum. As the pa- tient’s health had confiderably declined by the irritation of the conftitution which this difeafe kept up, and as no amendment of the difeafe had taken place in confequence of the applications or medicines which were employed, he left the Holpital, and went into the countiy. Difeafes alfo, which flrikingly refemble carcinoma in appearance, form in the follow- ing manner. An enlarged lymphatic gland fhall gradually become foft, and contain a fluid. In this ftate it ulcemtes or is opened; but inftead of fubfiding, it inflames; the furrounding parts become indurated; the in- teguments acquire a dulky hue j the opening and cavity enlarge, and aflume the appear- ance of a cyft, from the fides of which fun- gus arifes, and turns over the everted edges of the opening, I have alfo feen, after the burfting of an eneyfted tumour the furround- ing parts indurate, and throw out a fungus, forming a difeafe appearing like cancer, and which could not be cured. C 2 AreA CLASSIFICATION 84 Are fucli difeafes as I have here defciibed to be accounted carcinomatous ? if not. What are the charadlers which difcriminate between them and carcinoma ? As I have no precife or fatisfa6lory information to communicate I forbear to fay any thing on the fubje6l Since the firft edition of thefe obferva- tions, feveral publications have appeared on the fubjedl of cancer, and as there are many circumftances relating to its Hiftory, upon the determination of which, by general ob- fervation and experience, our pradtical rules of condu6l muft be founded, I take this * A patient was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hof- pital, with feveral indurated foul, but fmall fores, about the bend of the elbow, and fome which intervened be- tween it and the axilla. The axillary glands were much difeafed, and the arm was fwollen and hard. She faid that the fores began like common gatherings, and that they hardened after the fkin had given way. That the difeafe began in fuperficial fores, and that the axillary glands were next alFedled. The patient died in the Hofpital; and, on examining the limb, a great number of tubercles were found in it, feveral of which were imbedded in the nerves of the arm. The lung alfo contained a gyeat number of tubercles which appeared to be the effedt of the fam.e kind of dif- eafe afFeding that part. oppor-or TUMOURS. 85 opportunity of prefenting to the public fome additional obfervations with refpedt to it, without prefuming to comment on the opinions of others. I fhall alfo in this account confine myfelf to the difeafe, as it appears in the female breaft. The account of carcinoma that I have al- ready given, is taken from the moft ftrongly characterized fpecimen of the difeafe occur- ring in that part, which is peculiarly hard, and rarely attains confiderable magnitude. There are, however, varieties; and one of the moft remarkable is, that of the difeafe attaining a very confiderable fize before it ulcerates. In this cafe fometimes the integu- ments remain pale and pliant, and a furgeon who firft fees the breaft in this ftate, may doubt whether the difeafe be adlual cancer or common farcoma. The fubftance of the tumour is alfo much lefs hard than in the fpecimen firft deferibed; yet it is more com- pa6l and weighty than moft other difeafes of the fame bulk which are not carcinomatous. If at firft a furgeon may hefitate to decide G 3 uponA CLASSIFICATION 86 Upon the nature of this difeafe, his opinion will in general be fpeedily determined by en- quiry and examination. If the hiftory of the difeafe accords with that of carcinoma; that is . to fay, if it began in a fmall diftridt, and re- gularly and unabatingly attained its prefent magnitude j if the furface of the tumour be unequal, having in various parts produced roundifh projedling nodules, the difeafe will almoft invariably be found to be carcinoma. The fkin will foon adhere to one or more of thefe prominences; it will ulcerate and expofe tlie fubjacent parts, and the future progrefs of the difeafe, will fo exadtly accord to that of the harder and fmaller fpecimen which I have defcribed, as not to require a feparate defcription. In general, however, the abforbents are much lefs liable to become affedted in the latter variety of this difeafe. Having thus reprefented the extreme varie- ties of carcinomatous difeafes, I need fcarcely cbferve, that there will be intermediate de- grees. ‘ In carcinoma, as in other difeafes, it appears to me, that the hiftory and progrefs87 OF TUMOURS. is more declarative of its nature than any circumftance which we may be able to difco- ver by the fight or touch. There is one circumftance in the hiftory of carcinoma which may prove very perplex- ing to the obferver, and tend to induce him to difbelieve that there is any regular pro- grefs belonging to this difeafe. I allude to the occurrence of cancer in parts previoufly difeafed in another manner. Analogy, as I have faid, would induce us to believe, that this might be a frequent occurrence j yet I cannot fay that my obfervations have led me to think, that it very commonly takes place. Cafes of tumours, which have re- mained indolent for twenty or more years, becoming cancerous at an advanced period of life are not unfrequently met with; and when tumours form in or about the breaft at an advanced period of life, though the progrefs at the beginning may aflure us that they are not carcinomatous, yet they may become fo, after the lapfe of but a few years, or even a ftiorter period of time. The impreftion which the confidera- e 4 tion88 A CLASSIFICATION tion of fuch circumftances has left on my mind (in conjun6lion with the information which I think I poffefs relative to the general health of a patient liable to cancer, and which I will prefently communicate,) is, that the patients who are fubjeft to fuch an occurrence, might have been liable to the formation of a cancerous difeafe at the fame period, even if no difeafed ftru6lure had prcvioufly exifted, and formed a nidus for the cancerous a6lions. That they are more likely to begin in parts previoufly difeafed, I readily admit 5 and that it may be prudent and pro^ per to remove fuch difeafes as I now allude to, under the circumftances which I have mentioned, and fliall ftill further defcribe, is an opinion in which I readily concur; yet, if an idea, that moft or many difeafed ftruc- tures might become cancerous was generally prevalent, it would doubtlefs lead to the per- formance of many unneceffary operations. In the firft volume of thefe Obfervations, I have given an opinion, which I am inclined even more fully and ftrongly to repeat, that a great umber of tumours in and about the femaleOP TUMOURS. 89 female mamma arife from a difordered ftate of the health in general, and confequently that the moft judicious and effedlual mode of difperfing them, is by corredling that general diforder. Such cafes are very numerous, and very important, as the reader may fee, by referring to the few that I have printed j yet all, or moft of thefe, would be conftgned to removal by the knife, were the idea which I have mentioned to become prevalent. When, however, a tumour that cannot be difperfed by the means to which I now refer exifts in or about the breaft, and which we feel afiured is not of a carcenomatous nature, it may be well to remove it, becaufe it is often a conftant fource of difturbance and alarm- to the patient’s mind; and, I am ready to admit, that it is likely to be a nidus in which cancerous adlions may be engendered in a conftitution predifpofed to that difeafe. How- ever I feel myfelf fully warranted in aftert- ing, from my own experience, that many of them will remain in the fame ftate for a great length of time, and even through life, with- out becoming cancerous. That9<3 A CLASSIFICATION That cancer, like moft other local dif- eafes, owes its origin to a difordered ftate of the health in general, is an opinion which I do not expedl to be controverted. We ex- prefs it even by faying, that there is a pre- difpofition to cancer. Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that cancer was fo far local, that if all the difeafed part, or that which was fo con- tiguous to it, as to have felt its influence, and to have acquired a predifpofition to difeafe, were removed, the patient would be as ex- empt from cancer in that part as if it never had occurred. This opinion, deduced from his own experience, is very important; it fhews us how we ought to operate when an operation is to be undertaken. I am ready to admit the truth of this opinion to the extent affirmed by Mr. Hunter; but though the patient may be as exempt from the difeafe as if it never had occurred, that ftate of conftitution which induced it originally, may after a certain lapfe of time caufe it to form again or may produce the fame dif- eafe * If after the removal of cancer, when the operation has been properly performed, the cicatrix remains healthy for91 OF TUMOURS. cafe in other parts of the body, or a patient may die of other ills or difeafes attendant on a cancerous conftitution. In our prefent ftate of knowledge, we are not, I believe, able to diftinguifh any pecu- liar circLimftance as characleriftic of a can- cerous conftitution. We obferve in it thofe circumftances which indicate a difordered con- ftitution, and augment the diforder by each reciprocally aggravating the other 3 I mean irritation, weaknefs, or fome undefinable dif- order of the nervous funftions 3 and' fuch ftiforder in the funftions of the digeftive or- gans, as I have defcribed in the firft volume of thefe Obfervations. I fee perfons having the fame evident affeclion of the health in general, fubjefl to tumours in and about tlie for five or fix years, or even for a fliorter period, and then becomes indurated and carcinomatous; it appears to me more confident with what we know of the action of this difeafe, to fuppofe, that it has originated again in confequence of the difeafed propenfities of the conftitution, rather than that it has lain dormant fo long, and is but «ow awakened, breaft.A CLASSIFICATION 92 breaft, which are not cancerous, and to thofc which are cancerous. What additional circumftances lead to the eftablifhment of cancerous a6Hons in the local difeafe thus induced, we have yet to learn. Previoufly to the occurrence of cancer the nervous diforder, and that-of the digeftive organs, have, in general, been greater in degree, and longer in duration, than they are found to be antecedently to other difor- ders. Some patients having cancer die of organic difeafes in the head or abdomen. If the nervous and vifceral diforders are a6live and confiderable, the progrefs of the local difeafe will be, in general, proportionately rapid and deftru(51:ive j and if, on the con- trary, thefe diforders are mild, and lefs in degree, the progrefs of the local difeafe will be proportionally flow and gentle. In con- firmation of thefe obfervations, I may men- tion, that I have feen feveral inflances of cancer proceeding fo mildly, that the pa- tients have; lived many years with little fuf- fering or inconvenience from the local dif- eafe.93 OF TUMOURS. cafe, and particularly where attention has been paid to regulate the fun6lions of the digeftive organs With ** There can be no fubje£l which I think more likely to interefl the mind of a furgeon, than that of an en- deavour to amend and alter the ftate of a cancerous confti- tutioru The beft timed and beft conduced operation brings witli it noticing but difgrace, if the difeafed propenfities of the conftitution are aftive and powerful. It is after an operation that, in my opinion, we are moft particu- larly incited to regulate the conftitution, left the difeafe fhould be revived or renewed by its difturbance. In ad- dition to that attention to tranquillize and invigorate the nervous fyftem, and keep the digeftive organs in as healthy a ftate as poftible, which I have recommended in the firft volume, I believe' general experience fan£lions the recommendation of a mere vegetable, becaufe lefs ftimu- iating diet, with the addition of fo much milk, broth, and eggs, as feem neceflary to prevent any declenfion of the patient’s ftrength. Very recently, Dr. Lambe has propofed a method of treating cancerous difeafes, which is wholly dietetic. He recommends the adoption of a ftrict vegetable regimen, to avoid the ufe of fermented liquors, and to fubftitute wa- ter, purified by diftillation, in the place of common w'a_ ter ufed as a beverage, and in all articles of diet in which common water is ufed, as tea, foups, &c. The grounds upon which he founds his opinion of the propriety of this advice, and the profpe£l of benefit which it holds out, may be feen in his « Reports on Cancers,” to which j refer my readers.94 A classification with a view to imprefs the conti'ary fa6V on the mind of the reader, I will briefly relate two cafes in proof of it. CASE ^— - -- - - • - - - - - - - . - - - - My own experience on tlie efFefts of tills regimen is of courfe very limited, nor does it authorife me to fpeafc decidedly on the fubjedl. But I think it right to obferve, that in one cafe of carcinomatous ulceration in which it was ufed, the fymptoms of the difeafe were, in my opi- nion, rendered more rnild, the eryfipelatous inflammation, furrounding the ulcer, was removed, and the life of the patient was, in my judgment, confiderably prolonged. The more minute details of the fadls conflitute the fixth- cafe of DrrLambe’s “ Reports.” It feems to me very proper and defirable, that the powers of the regimen recommended by Dr. Lambe, lliould be fairly tried, for the following reafons : ill. Becaufe I know fome perfons who,- whilft con- fined to fuch diet, have enjoyed very good health j and I have further known feveral perfons who did try the efFe£ls of fuch a regimen, declare, that it was productive of conflderable benefit. They were not indeed affeCted with capcer, but they were induced to adopt a change of diet to allay a Bate of nervous irritation, and correCt diforders of the digeftive organs, upon which medicine had but little influence. adly. Becaufe it appears certain, that In general the body can be perfectly nouriflied by vegetables. 3dly. It feems fufficiently afcertained, that difeafes haye in fome perfons been excited by water, and there- foreOF TUMOURS. 95 CASE XIII. A lady came from the country with a cancerous tumour in the breaft, and took fome medicine, probably arfenic, by the . ^ defire of a female quack, which brought on the mod; violent ficknefs and purging, with death-like faintings. It was uncertain for feveral days whether die would furvive its • effedts. Inflammation was induced in the local difeafe to fuch a degree, that the cancer floughed, and came out, and violent erifipela- tous inflammation extended itfelf from the fkin of the bread: to a great extent. The fides of the cavity, however, threw forth a cancerous fungus, and in this diate fhe re- turned into the country. fore it is defirable, that whatever is ufed fliould be made as pure as poffible, 4thly. Becaufe all great changes of conftitution are'more likely to be efFe£Ied, by alterations of diet and modes of life, than by medicine. 5thly. Becaufe it holds out a fource of hope and con- folation to the patient, in a difeafe where medicine is known to be unavailing, and furgery affords no more than a temporary relief. CASE9^ ■ A CLASSIIICATIOK CASE XIV. A lady about forty-fix years of age, afkcd my opinion refpedting a fmall lump in her breaft. She was very nervous and agitated, and her bowels extremely difordered. She faid fhe had fometimes twenty difcharges from her bowels in twenty-four hours, and that the fecretion of bile was as faulty as poflible. After about fix weeks fhe called upon me again, having been in the country : the me- dicines which fhe had tried had been pro- dudlive of little or no good. Her converfa- tion was equally defultory and agitated. Her pulfe very frequent. The lump was en- larged to about the fize of a walnut, but had no figns by which I fhould have known it to be cancer. Hearing that her furgeon in the ■ country thought it cancerous, and believing that an operation in her prefent flate was in- admiflible, I recommended her to take the opinion of another furgeon. I did not now fee her for fome time, I believe about two months, when the tumour had become as large as an orange, and had thrown out a fungus, which protruded in nodules. The 12 tumourOF TUMOURS. 97 tumour had, flie told me, become foft, and feemed as if it were gathering; and thefe pro- trufions took place afterwards. Her general health was hill equally difordered, and the furgeon, who had feen her, concurred with me in opinion, that an operation under her prefent circumftances was] inadmilTible. The lump rapidly increafed; and, in the courfe of a few months, became as large as a child’s head, having all the chara6ters of carcinoma. It then ulcerated, and did not afterwards materially enlarge. I need not defcribe how it ulcerated, and how it, oc- cafionally, bled profufely. She gradually became emaciated and feeble, and died exhaufted, without the glands in the axilla becoming difeafed, or any peculiar fymp- to'ms occurring. In order further to elucidate the opinions which I entertain refpefting the conftitu- tional nature of cancerous difeafe, I feleft the following cale. CASE XV. A lady had had a tumour in, or near the right breaft, for more than twenty years, VOL. IV. H whichA CLASSIFICATION 98 which, when llie was between fifty and fixty years, may be faid to have become can- cerous. The patient indeed infifled, that the cancer did not begin in the original lump, but by the fide of it. No local treat- ment arrefted its progrefs; and, in a fiiort time, it became cognizable from its indura- tion and irregularity of furface, as a decided cafe of cancer. The tumour, and a con- fiderable portion of the furrounding parts, were therefore removed. The wound healed healthily in a fiiort fpace of time, and the patient left London. She had always been, to ufe her own exprefiion, extremely bilious, yet the difcharges from the bowels were but rarely tin6lured with good bile. She had pafied gall ftones. Her bowels were very irregular in their fun6lions, being frequently very coflive, or the reverfe. Whilfl: I had attended her, fiie had taken five grains of the compound calomel pill every fecond or third night, and kept the bowels as regular as poflible. She faid, that her health had been greaLly benefited by thefe attentions, and I urged her ftill to continue them. For a year or more, after file left London, fiie was well, the cicatrixOF TUMOURS. 99 iCicatHx remaining perfectly foft and fmooth. Having occafion to travel after that period during the winter, and being badly accom- ■ modated at the inns flie met with on the road, fhe caught cold, and became very feverifli and unwell. The cold, die faid, had fixed itfelf on the lungs, for a cough, and a difficulty of breathing continued, and iincreafed, fo that in a little more than a year Ifrom its commencement it dedroyed her. About fix weeks before her death, die came tto London, when die told me, that fince the ‘time of her catching her dreadful cold die lhad found a lump begin to form in her other 1 bread, and that the cicatrix had afterwards 1 become difeafed. The tumour in the left 1 bread was of a globular form, of about an iinch and a half in diameter, it was hard, 1 weighty, and nodulated upon its furface. It \was mod chara6feridically cancerous, but iwhat I diould term a dwarf or dunted fpeci- imen of that difeafe, fuch as we fee produced \when the powers of the conditution are rmuch Icd'eiied. This, and the correfpondeiit tfa6tof cancer diminidiing when the powers cof conditution decline, diould be noted, or elfc H 2A CLASSIFICATION TOO elfe a furgeon might attribute fuch effe6i:s, the confequences of natural caufes, to the medicine which he employs. The upper part of the cicatrix, on the oppofite fide, had indu- rated and ulcerated, but not to a confiderable degree. I was not permitted to examine the body, which I much wihied to have done, becaufe, I believe, the extreme difficulty of breathing could not have been occahoned by any thing lefs than organic difeafe of the lungs. I have, however, examined the bodies of cancerous patients who died with difficulty of breathing, without difcovering difeafe in j thofe organs. The fymptoms fubfequent to operations, being the refult of that excitement of con- ftitution which the thoughts and injury of the operation occahon, often exhibit, in a very ftriking manner, the difeafed propen- fpies of the conftitution. I think it may be ufeful briefly to relate thofe which oc- curred after the removal of a cancerous tumour in a cafe whiffi I lately attended. The pa- tient poflelTed what might, in general, be called a good conftitution, and great forti- tude,OF TUMOURS. lOI tude, fo that die bore the operation without the leaft complaint. Yet during the day preceding the operation, flie had a flight lumbago, as flie called it, which I believed to be the effeft of that anxiety of mind which the thoughts of undergoing the operation rnuft occafion. In the evening after the tumour had been removed, fhe complained of a defire, and of an inability to void urine; Hie had alfo fenfations in the throat like hyfferics. Her pulfe was 8o. She had no deep during the night, but had voided half a pint of urine, which had no ftriking pecu- liarity of appearance. Saline draughts had hitherto been given, and flie was now defired to take of ol. ricini, mixed with mucilage and cinnamon water, every fourth hour till a ftool was procured. She took feven draughts without any effecf. The pain in the back increafed, and during the fecond night was fo fevere, that fhe groaned very conflantly from the pain. On the third morning, I found her very ill, yet her pulfe was not more than 90, neither was her fKin hot. She had voided no urine for the laft 30 hours ; pain continued from the back down the H 3 thighs?02 A CLASSIFICATION thighs, but the abfence of fever convinced me, that the pain in the back and fuppref- fion of urine could not be the effeft of nephritis. Thinking, as I had done from the beginning, that the kidneys were fympa- thetically affedled by the ftate of the bowels, and that the pain of the back depended on the ftate of thofe organs, I now ordered her a pill of extradf of colocynth, and a draught of Epfom falts, every fourth hour, inftead of the caftor oil. In the evening difcharges from the bowels took place; fhe had five ffools, and the pain in the back had nearly ceafed. Feeling very languid, and having had no fleep during the two preceding nights, fhe took 20 drops of laudanum, and a little nitrous sether, in water. This medicine pro- duced great heat and uneafinefs in the ftomach; and though fhe flept a little from the opium, her fleep feemed to be attended with more difturbance than benefit. She voided fome urine during the night, which was like extremely muddy water. As the difcharges from the bowels had ceafed, and did not feem likely to be renewed, ihe began again with the caflor oil draughts, by which anOF TUMOURS. i03 an evacuation of the bowels was procured in the courfe of the day. The urinary fecretion continued, and was augmented in quantity. As the ftools were not properly tindtured with bile, three grains of the pilul. hydrarg. were ordered to be given every fecond night for the future. Dyfpcptic fymptoms and flatulence now claimed our chief attention. She complained of great acidi:y, of diftention, and tendernefs at the lower part of tlie epigaftric region. For this fhe took chalk mixture, with aromatic confection, and after- wards magnefia; which latter medicine feemed afterwards fufficient to keep the bowels in a gently lax ftate. In about a fortnight her bowels were in a comfortable ftate, and in about three weeks the urine was clear, and fecreted in the ufual quantity. On the eighth day, when the dyfpeptic fymptoms were fevere, the patient had gout in her finger and toe, to which flie had been previoufly fubje6t. It is right to mention, that prior to the operation, the urinary fecretion had never appeared to her to be irregular either in quantity or quality, and that her bowels had been readily affedted by rather flight dofes of medicine. The fame cir- ri 4 . cumftances104 -A classification cumftances were obferved after the fabfidenec of the diforder occafioned by the operation. I have fatisfadtion in adding, that though the wound fuffered during the continuance of the conflitutional difturbance, it after- wards healed rapidly and fmoothly, fo that at the end of fix weeks, it had the appear- ance of a fear in perfectly healthy parts. If cancer be a conflitutional difeafej if patients affe6led with it have occafionally other difeafes of a fatal nature j if in fome inftances, when there is no organic difeafe, the nervous fyflem is fo irritable, and the digeflive organs fo difordered, as to render any operation perilous; thefe circumflances mufl render every furgeon who perceives them reludlant to operate, and uncertain as to the event of the cafe. They fhew the neceflity of folicitoufly attending to the con- flitution of the patient after an operation, with a view to prevent the .recurrence of the difeafe, or its formation in other parts, They explain how it happens, that the operation frequently accelerates the death of the patient. I have known a patient die foon after an operationC? TUMOURS. 105 operation for the removal of a cancerous tumour of no great magnitude, merely in confequence of the fhock imparted to tlic conftitution by the operation. I have known other cafes, in which the difeafcd ftate of the wounded parts fcemed to have been the chief caufe of the fpeedy death of the patient. I therefore concur in opinion with thofe fui- geons, who think, that in many inftances an operation for the removal' of cancer would be ralh and unjuftifiable. Yet, liowcver nu- merous and momentous the deterring rea- fons may be, I think they Ihould not pre- vent our operating in many cafes. If the whole of tliefe difeafed parts, and thofe which, from contiguity with them, may have been lb far influenced as to acquire a difpofition to difcafe can be removed, it furely ought to be attempted, provided the conftitution is not fo difordered, or dif- eafed, as to prohibit the operation. We ought to bend our minds attentively to make out the charadleriftic figns of cancer, that we may know it at an early period, and when the difeafeis in a fmaH'compafs, and the opera- tion on that account lefs formidable. To forbearA CLASSIFICATION io6 forbear to operate is to confign the patient to hopelefs mifery. F umigations with carbonic acid gas, weak acids, and frefli vegetable juices, corredl the icetor, infulions of opium lefTen the pain, and oxyds and faline preparations of iron feem to expedite the deftru6fion of the difeafed parts, and cleanfe the fore j yet I have not feen any fuch efFe6fs from local applications as leads me even to hope that any may be difcovered that will cure the local difeafe. The ulceration and felf-deftroying procefs of cancer is fo horrible a procefs, that it may be ftated as an argument for the operation, that a patient gets rid of a quantity of dif- eafe upon eafier terms by having it removed by the knife, than by fufrering it to pro- ceed in its natural courfe. When the fear or furface of a wound after an operation, becomes indurated and cancerous, the patient fuffers much lefs pain, and there is much lefs feetor in the difeafe thus formed, fo that the patient’s fuft'erings are, on the whole, much diminiflied. But if the patient’s conftitution beOF TUMOURS. 107 be moderately good, and if the operation be performed at a fufficiently early period, I have known life prolonged for five, fix, or more years; and when, after that lapfe of time, the cicatrix has become difeafed, the actions which enfued have been indolent, and the patients have gradually funk, and died, rather from fome circumftances connefted with the ftate of the general health, than from the degree of the local difeafe. There are tumours, the ftru6lure of which may not correfpond with any of the defcrip- ticns that I have given. I feel, howevej*, un- able, from my owm obfervations, to depift any other fpecies. It feems to me, that thefe difeafes refemble colours in this refpeft, tliat a few of the primary ones only can be difcri- minated and exprefied, whilfi: the interme- diate fhades, though diftinguiflrable, by clofe attention and comparative obfervation, do not admit of defcription or denomination. There are fingle tumours, in the compo- fition of which feverai of the above-defcribcd ftruftures may be found, and, perhaps, fome part of which may not correfpond to any de- fcriptionA CLASSIFICATION 10? fcription tliat has been given. If, however, thehiftoiyof thefe diffimilar difeafes, which appear in the form of tumours, were accu- rately recorded, and their ftruaiure noted, we might perhaps from the former be led to judge of the latter; and thus attain a know- ledge of the intrinfic nature of the difeafe wdiich would enable us to a6l rightly in pradlice» Encyjled Tumours, In the clafs of local difeafes, and in the order of tumours, cuftom feems to have placed the genuS of Encyfted Tumours, next to thofe of the farcomatous kind. The ar- rangement indeed appears proper; for they are fo allied in appearance, and in the fen- fation which they impart on examination, that they are not unfrequently miftaken for each other; and yet, in general, the encyfted tumours have fufficiently diftinguiftiing cha- racters to enable a furgeon to determine their nature prior to the performance of an opera- tion. The diferiminating charadlers are, —-a regularity of furface and ftiape, and a pulpy feel.109 OF TUMOURS. feel. Yet moft furgeons will, I believe, ac- knowledge, that they have feen tumours difperfed, which they have taken for wens; and have even, when they have removed them under that belief, difcovered the dif- eafe to have been a foft regularly fhaped farcoma, and not a cyft containing a pulpy fubftance. Refpedling the Ifrudlure of encyfted tu- mours I have nothing to remark, but what is, I believe, generally known. The cyfls moft frequently are compofed of many la- mellae, which are fometimes fo compadled, as ' to' be fcarcely diftinguiftiable. Thefe cyfts vary confiderably in thicknefs j being fome- times very thick and tough, and at others ex- tremely thin and tender. They fometimes moft tenacioufty adhere to the contiguous parts, fo as to make it difficult to feparate them; and, at others, they are fo loofely connedled, that, when an incifion is made which lays- bare the cyft, the whole tumour ftarts out without any diftedtion. That the interior furface fecretes the con- tents formed in the cyft, is in my opinion 10 indif-iro A CLASSIFICATION indifp 11 table. That it is a fecreting furface I believe; becaufe, when a wen has fponta- neoufly opened by ulceration, I have feen the cyft produce granulations from its furface. When alfo, the front of the bag has alone been taken away, and the (kin clofed over the back of it, an union takes place between the ik.in and cyft. When alfo a wen has burft, or has been pundlured, fo that a fmall aper- ture has been left in it, which has occa- ftonally given difcharge to its contents; I have feen the cyft fill repeatedly by a fecretion of the fame nature, but more fluid than the contents which were at firft found in it. Some notions have of late been entertained, that thefe cyfts may be of the nature of hy- datids; it may not, therefore, be improper, in order to enable the reader to form his own judgment on this fubjedl, to mention the following cafe. A gentleman had a wen in his cheek, which fpontaneoufly burft, and on which Mr. Hunter tried various ftimulating means to induce the cyft to granulate or adhere, fo thatOF TUMOURS. 11 1 9 lancet. that no further colle6lion might enfae. His endeavours, however, were unavailing; for, after the opening clofed, the cavity of the cyil filled again, and the wen was as complete as before, and had increafed in magnitude. It was fituated unfavourably -for removal, .and the patient was adverfe'to an operation. It lay fo deeply on the buccinator mufcle, as to be as perceptible from the. mouth as on the cheek; and there was a great rilk of dividing the parotid du6f, in an operation undertaken for the removal of the tumour. The de- formity which the wen occafioned, was, how- ever, confiderable, it being as big as the largeft kind of walnut; and the patient was very defirous of having the tumour lefiened, though very averfe to having it extirpated. He had for this purpofe ufed fait and water, which made the Ikin inflame. Having con- fulted me, I told him that if ftimulating ap- plications were to do good, they could only effedl it by caufing the Ikin to ulcerate, and the contents of the wen to be difcharged, as had formerly happened ; all which might be accompliflied in a more direft, and lels teaz- ing manner, by juft pricking the bag with aA CLASSIFICATION I have lancet, and fqueezing out its contents. I thought it alfo probable, that the fmall wound would heal, and that the operation might be occahonally repeated. The patient was pleafed with the propofal, and it was put in execution. The contents were of the con- fiftence which is termed meliceritous, and had a peculiar odour. No inflammation en- fued, and the wound healed; but, after a little time, it opened again, and gave dif- charge to a fmall quantity of watery liquor, of precifely the fame odour as the original contents, and the little pun6ture again clofed up. From that time to the prefent, which is | now fome years, the wound has occafionally | opened, difcharging a fmall quantity of fome- times a more fluid, fometimes a more meli- ceritous fubftance j and, after this difcharge, the aperture clofes, up. This circumftance occurs but feldom j perhaps every fecond or third month. The aperture is fo fmall as not to be difcernible; no plaifter is worn upon j it, and the patient has got rid of a confiderable deformity, upon what he thinks very eafy and fatisfa^lory terms.OF TUMOURS. II appear like horns j as has been Ihewn i have mentioned thefe circumftances to illuftrate the fun6lions of the cyfts of thefe tumours; and to fhew what may be done in fome cafes, as a palliation of thefe difeafes. It is not, however, meant to recommend fuch practice) for, on the contraiy, it will be fhewn hereafter, that *it is dangerous to tamper with eneyfted tumours j and, indeed, I fhould not have ventured on this palliative mode of treatment, in the cafe related, had I not known from the effects of the former condu6l, which had been purfued, that the cyft and contiguous parts were of an indolent nature, and not difpofed to re-a6l in confe- quence of violence done to them. The contents of eneyfted tumours have been denominated from their confiftence, fteatomatous, atheromatous, and meliceritous. To this ancient diftinftion muft be added another: the cyft fometimes fecretes a fub- ftance like nail or horn ; which is protruded wheri the fkin ulcerates, hardens, and is I pufhed forwards in proportion as the cyft t. fecretes more of this fubftance, fo as toII4 A CLASSIFICATION by Mr. Home in the Philofophical Trant' a(5lions. There is yet another curious circumftancc to be noticed with relation to cyfts j which is, that they have fometimes hairs growing from their interior furface. This happens in thofe cyfts which are not unfrequently met with in the ovai'y But though the cyfts of encyfted tumours muft be confidered as pofteftmg the organiza- tion of other parts, and as fecreting and ab- forbing furfaces j yet their veflels are pro- bably very minute, and not endued with a degree of ftrength adequate to the ordinary reparation of injury. If they produce gra- nulations they are flabby, and the fores are not difpofed to heal. It is no uncommon circumftance to meet with wens, that have burft fpontaneoufly, * Some of the tubercles •which occur in the vifcera feem to be formed by the depofition of various kinds of fubftances from the furface of a cyft, which appears to be the firft formed and moft effential part of the difeafe. andI15 OF TUMOURS, I! and have thrown out a fungus, which, like I: a foreign body, prevents the furrounding in- 1 teguments from healing. Mod: parts that are weak, are irritable ' when excited, and apt to affume difeafcd ac- tions. This frequently happens in a ftriking 1 manner in the cyfts of thefe tumours; and ;as, perhaps, furgeons are not fufficiently ; apprized of the bad confequences fometimes (occurring from the inflammation of wens, ; and as it is proper, to (hew the danger of irri*. ! tating thefe difeafes, I fhall relate a few cafes I to illuftrate this fa6l. A woman, about forty years of age, was .admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, 'with a frightful fungus growing on the front <of the belly, below, and to the right of the 1 navel. She had been a healthy lufty woman, Ibut was greatly deranged in health by the jpain and irritation which this had occafioned.' JShe deferibed it as being a wen which had [burft, and her account was afterwards verified :by difTe6lion. The fungus bled, and fhe (could fcarcely bear the foftefl: dreflings to be I 2 applied116 A CLASSIFICATION applied to the part. Nothing mitigated heE fufferings fo much as lint dipt in a folutioii of opium, and kept moift by very frequently fqueezing on it, from a fponge, a fufficient quantity of the folution. Nothing allayed the conftitutional irritation but large dofes of opium. She died exhaufted in the courfe of a fortnight. I removed the cyft. from off the aponeu- rofis of the external oblique mufcle, where it covers the redfus, leaving the tendinous ex- panfion quite clean and unaffedted. The cyft had ulcerated in two fmall places, fo that the fungus which it contained was vifible from behind. A man between forty and fifty years of age, who was in St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, had a wen on his back, which ulcerated, dif- charged an atheromatous fubftance, and after- wards Inflamed, and threw out a fungus. Extenfive ei*yfipelatous inflammation took place in the furrounding integuments, and his conftitution was greatly deranged by irri- tation and fever. When he was almofl: ex- haufledllj OF TUMOURS. * 3 When haufted by thefe circumftances, and before any local amendment had taken place, an- other wen of the fame nature, which he had on his right thigh, ulcerated, and was followed by the fame confequences, and, conjointly, tliey foon deflroyed hinu A gentleman, of a flout make, and about forty years of age, had a tumour, fuppofed to be farcomatous, which had formed beneath the integuments on the lower edge of the pe6loral mufcle. It was attended with fevere pain occafionally, at which time it rapidly in- creafed in fize, and produced a great deal of fever and irritation *, which made him look very fickly, and grow veiy thin, and caufed fome perfone to deem the dileafe cancerous. * Circumftances like thefe fliould, I think, be particu- larly attended to in the hiftory of tumours ; for they may ferve, perhaps, to charafterize the difeafe In which they occur. Tumours of an innocent nature commonly in- creafe in an equal ratio, and do not excite Irritation in the contiguous parts, or in the conllitution. Yet this, as a general rule, has exceptions. Some of thefe have been ftated under the head of pancreatic farcoma, occurring in cr about the mammary gland.ii8 A CLASSIFICATION When the tumour had acquired a magni- tude of about four inches in length, and three in breadth and depth, he fubmitted to its re- moval; the integuments were divided and turned back, and the tumour difTe6led off the furface, and, in fome degree, from under the edge of the pe6foral mufcle. When the tumour was examined, it was found to be compofed of a fteatomatous fub- ftance, contained in a thin capfule. The fub- ftance refembled that which I have defcribed as being fometimes found in cells in the telfis, or intermixed with the difeafed organi- zation of that part. It was firm, and refem- bled cheefe in its yellow colour and un6luous anpeaiance; but it was not un6luous to the touch. The wound made in the operation foon healed, and the patient’s health was reftored to as good, or feemingly a better ftate than before the formation of this difeafe. He alfo regained his ufual athletic form. But in lefs than three months after his recovery, two new tumours formed, one above, and the 13 otherOF TUMOURS. II9 Other below the cicatrix of the wound. The patient did not particularly attend to them till they had attained a lize equal to that of a large walnut. To diffedl out both thelc tumours, and make fo free a removal of parts as to render it probable that no new growth would enfue, feemed to be a very formidable operation j and, as the nature of the former tumour was known, and it was fuppofed that thefe were of the fame kind,- it was agreed to puncture the upper one, to exprefs the contents, and await the event. This was done by a pun6ture of half an inch in length, made by an abfcefs lancet. The contents were exa6tly like thofe of the original tu- mour. Vehement eryfipelatous or irritative inflammation took place, and floughing about the difeafed part: the inflammation rapidly extended to the oppofite fide of the thorax, and then down the integuments of the ab- domen to the groin. The derangement of the conftitution was as violent as the local difeafe, and in about a week the patient died. Thefe cafes are related to fliew the danger of irritating wens, either of an irritable nature, I 4 orA CLASSIFICATlOlsT 120 and or occurring in irritable habits j and becaufe I have not met with fuch cafes defcribed in books in a manner adequate to the importance of the fubjecl. It deferves to be noticed in this brief ac- count of encyfted tumours, that the difpofi- tion to form wens prevails frequently in many parts of the body at the fame time. It is not very uncommon to fee many, even twenty or thirty wens alike in their ftrufture and con- tents in various parts of the fame fubjedf. Nay, the difpofition feems fometimes to be hereditary, and tranfmitted from parents to their children. The fubjeft would appear to me to be in- complete were I not to notice the formation of cavities, containing different fubftances, and which can neither be accounted encyfted tumours, nor abfceffes. The cyfts are like the cyfls of abfceffes ; they are fecreting furfaces, not regular in fhape, but varying according to the form of the parts, amongft xvhich they are produced. They adhere alfo, like the fides of abfceffes, to the circumjacent parts,I2X • OF TUMOURS, and are not eafily feparable from them like the cyfts of wens. Thefe cyfts fometimes contain a kind of ferum and hydatids like the cyfts formed in the liver, and other vifcera. Sometimes they contain a number of granular fubftances of a white colour, having a po- liftied furface, and generally an oval figure, which refemble pearl barley, but the granules are generally fmaller. I have feen the cyfts containing hydatids, in the back and about the hip, on the ftioulder and ^in front of the elbow joint*. I never met with any contain- * The cyfts from which fuch fubftances are difcharged, are, in general, very irritable. If they are kept open for fome time, an alteration feems to take place in the aftions of the part, and they no longer continue to fecrete that matter which forms the granules I have defcribed, nor die fluid in which hydatids are found. As thefe difeafes are not fo frequent as to be familiarly known to furgeons, whofe pra£Hce is not extenlive, I will relate two cafes to (hew die nature and treatment of fuch difeafes. —• Case. A young lady had a confiderable colle£Uon of fluid beneath the biceps mufcle of the arm. It protruded on either fide of the mufcle, and reached to about three inches above the elbow joint. I pun£i;ured it with an abfcefs lancet, and difcharged about fix ounces of ferous fluid, containing a few hydatids. The wound, which' was an inch in length, was drelTed with fpermaceti falve, a bread andA CLASSIFICATION 122 containing thefe granular bodies but about the hip, and, in the thecae of tendons ; I have and water poultice applied, and the arm was fupported by a fling. For a few days ferous fluid oozed from the aperture, when the external wound had clofed fo much as to prevent its efcape. I introduced a probe into the cavity, and afterwards a fmall tent, to prevent the aper- ture in the cyfl; from clofing. This trivial irritation caufed great difturbance in the parts, to a confiderable diflance, which became heated and fwollen, and fo painful, that I dared not to perfevere. The wound was fuffered to heal, which it foon did ; but the fluid collefted again. InftrucTed by this experience, I now opened the cyft with a lancet, introduced a probe-pointed biftoury, and enlarged the aperture to the extent of an inch and a half. This wound was drefled fuperficially; it was three weeks before it clofed, and afterwards no colleftion of fluid took place in the cyft, and the patient remained perfe£Uy vrell. — Case. A gentleman had for many years fuffered great inconvenience from a colledbion of fluid beneath the fafcia of the ring finger, the palmar fafcia, and that of the forearm. The colleftion feem to have begun in the palm of the hand, but had extended itfelf half way up' the theca of the ring finger, and paffing under the carpal ligament, had made its way by the ulnar fide of the flexor mufcles,and protruded the fafcia of the fore-arm in that part wlfich intervenes between the flexors of the fingers and the flexor carpi ulnaris. At this part the fluid was neareft to the furfaee,and it was agreed, in confultation,that it fhould here be opened. I accordingly made a divifioii of the Ikin , aboutOF TUMOURS. 125 liave therefore conjectured that thefe cyfts are enlargements of the burf<e mucofae. about two inches in length, to expofe the fafcia of the fore-arm, which I divided to the extent of an inch and a half. I then diftrafted the mufcles a little, when there gufhed out a large quantity of fluid, containing a number of the larged granules that ever I had feen formed in the (heaths of tendons. Several of them were as big as fmall grapes. By prefling the palm of the hand more were forced out, yet I remained uncertain whether the whole were difcharged. The wound was drefled fuperficially with fpermaceti falve, a bread and water poultice applied, and the arm kept fupported in a fling. Three days after the operation, fearing led fome of the granules might re- main, I introduced the point of a varniflied catheter, and impelled fome warm water beneath the fafcia of the hand. No granules returned with it; but this experiment caufed great nervous irritation in the part, and in the conditu- tion in general. Nothing therefore was further done • that could irritate the parts, and the wound healed in about fix weeks, in the following manner: The (kin on cither fide of the wound became tumid, and threw forth exuberant granulations to fuch a height, that a fwelling as big as half an egg cut lengthwife, projeded above the level of the (kin ; as the granulations from either fide touched, they coalefced, and thus the divided’fafcia was covered. The granulations being afterwards abforbed, the cicatrix appeared like one from a common cut, and the integuments were flat, and in a natural date. I faw the patient two years after this operation, and there had been no new colle£l:ion of fluid. The1^4 A CLASSIFICATION 6 . arm, The greater number of thefe cafes, which I have feen, have ultimately, but vei*y flowly, done well. However fome cyfts, upon be- coming open, produce great and even fatal irritation in the contiguous parts. Some- times cyfts, as Mr. Hey has lately remarked, produce that appearance, which he has called fungus hsematodes. Of this circumftance, as it appertains to the prefent fubjeft, I fhall relate an inftance; but to fpeak more largely of that difeafe, would be deviating from the plan of this paper, and would be unneceflary, as the numerous and accurate cafes, which Mr. Hey has related, fliew that this dif- eafe may exift without being connected with cyfts. A girl about fixteen years of age, who was in St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, had a collec- tion of fluid under the triceps extenfor cubiti, near to the olecranon. When I firfl: faw it, it was not larger than a pullet’s egg, but it increafed, notwithftanding the means which were employed to difeufs it; and, in about twelve months, it prefented itfelf be- neath the integuments on the outfide of the• f »«5 »rm, hi t})« meoi^f fk///f r»a(ciW; a Kttlc ab<^y« tijc ticK/w# r>*e iiitt^tt- a HijUiMM>yMi <A flui4 wa* k:k tiMf vi<;^ «*^j4tcW m tii^ mfi^e of ar/?*, aiAxi Umj fewiwsi to c;^tw4 JiJgh uj^ </n tH^c he^'k j/aft 'yf tiit oi b;acJ#i*, A* tim |>aru ly^^uhiin^ tliC &uvi fe«3W:d ii*^y/'t Sf^y/‘<4 to ittcrcafe m 4o!a«ifioii*, thoiu V} wa^r a/>d dIf<iiiMg« tii«/ tOf)t«iia, iJk </>Hc<>kyii wa^> opWitd wj»<rf« it p</mtcd, sum! a '^umtity <A U:f>Mu v/at dHdia/gtd, On imrodu/ting t}»« ^ywa; ft;saU of co- agiilaUxl bl<xxl taoie ar*d djit» waa £bo uaj(j«ti b/ i'rcat an hafi/v/rrhagt, tiiat it bo (ar/ic rvsccdTafy to eularge tJ*? w(Xiad, ir* o«kr to ikardi for t\yc bltt^big vdkh. In pro- jxyftion as this was done, and more O'ya^u- }ated blood was dttadied from the (ide$ of the cyft, v»hlch liad c'yntahicd bytli it zad tlic fcf um, the liaexnorrha^e iii^^xcafed, arid the blood flor/cn io profuftly from ^ many and fucb large arteries, that It was ii»j>offibk to controul its effuHon, Amputation ftemed unavoidable, and was performed as high up as poHibk, but not dearly above tl:e cyS, lOCOiA classification 126 fome part of which remained amongft the mufcles of the flump. On examining the amputated limb, a thick and firm flratum of coagulated blood was found adhering to the fides of a cyfl, which extended from a little above the olecranon, where it was large, to nearly the upper part of the os brachii, where it gradually tapered to a fmall fize. The upper part of the cyfl was cut off from the reft by the amputating knife, and of courfe remained upon the flump. At firft, the flump appeared to do well, but fhortly after the fides of the wound feparated, confiderabl'e inflammation came on, and a fungus was thruft forth. Great fever and irritation accompanied this local diforder, and the girl died *. The * An unreftrainable haemorrhagic tendency feems to he the eflential charafter of that difeafe, which Mr, Hey has denominated Hsematodes. That it takes place from difeafed ftru£tures is manifeft ; yet I have known it hap- pen without any morbid growth having preceded it. I fliall briefly relate a cafe of this defeription, becaufe the term fungus haematodes feems to be a name commonly now applied to every bleeding fungus, whilft that haematodal difpofition, which Mr. Hey has deferibed, is a very rareOF TUMOURS. -7 The treatment of encyfted tumours re- fembles that of the farcomatous kind. By abflrafUng blood and heat from the part it is probable the growth of them will be flopped, and the difeafe made for a time ftationary. They are not likely to be difperfed; and, as the magnitude is increaled by delay, and the fpcntaneous opening of the cyfl generally leaves a vexatious and intra61able fore, and fometimes is attended with more dangerous confequences, the early removal of the dif- eafe is the beft pra6lical condu6l that can be be purfued. rare occurrence. — Case. A young man, who was out of health, complained of ftiffnefs and pain in the bottom of his belly, and took to his bed, declaring his inability to move about. Suddenly a fwelling formed above the Poupart’s ligament, which rapidly increafed, and the fkin ulcerated. A frightful fungus feemed to prefent itfelf, and an uncontrolable haemorrhage enfued. When the cafe was examined after death, all that bulged out could be removed by the finger or fponge, and appeared to be coagulated blood, rather than fungus, and at the bottom nothing was feen but the abdominal mufcles, which had that bruifed and brownifh appearance which Mr. Hey has deferibed. Another128 A CLASSIFICATION Another genus of tumours is the olTeous, Thofe which hang pendulous into joints are fometimes bony. OlTeous tumours alfo form, though not frequently, in other parts : of this circumftance I lhall relate the follow- ing inftance. A woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital, with a hard tumour in the ham. It was about four inches in length and three in breadth. She had alfo a tumour on the front of the thigh a little above the patella, of lefs fize and hardnefs. The tumour in the ham, by its prelTure on the nerves and velTels, had greatly benumbed the fenfibility, and ob- ftrudled the circulation of the leg, fo that it was very osdematous. As it appeared im- podible to remove this tumour, and, as its origin and connexions were unknown, am- putation was refolved on. On examining the amputated limb, the tumour in the ham could only be divided by a faw; feveral dices were taken out of it by this means, and ap- peared to confift of coagulable and vafcular fubftance, in the interflices of which a great deal of bony matter was depolited. The remainder of the tumour was macerated and dried.129 OF TUMOURS. dried, and it appears to be formed of an irre- gular and compaft depofition of the earth of bone. The tumour on the front of the thigh was of the fame nature with that in the ham; but containing fo little lime, that it could be cut with a knife. The thigh-bone was not at all difeafed •, which is mentioned, becaufe, when bony matter is depolited in a limb, it generally arifes from a difeafe of the bone. This cafe, however, Ihews that the velTels of a tumour may fecrete phofphate of lime, and convert it into an olTeous fubftance, without any manifeft caufe exifting to excite fuch olTific inflammation. Vafcular tumours alfo may dotibtlefs be- come converted into a fubftance refembling cartilage, like thofe found in joints; and their hardnefs might then exclude them from the genus farcoma. I have not however met with fuch inftances. The difeafes which I have been defcribing may be confidered as edifices which are built ,up by difeafed aftions, and in which thofe difeafed aftions continue to refide. The VOL. IV. K adlions130 A tLAS&iriCATlON aftions themfelves do not admit of examina>- tion, though the ftrudlures da whieh they credl. Therefore, as Dr. Baillie has obferved, it is by an examination of difeafed ftru6lure that we mull be (lowly led to a knowledge of difeafed a6lions.i It does not follow as a cer- tain confequenee, that fimilar difeafed a6lioits will, in every inftance, produce precifely the fame difeafed ftrudlure j though it is highly probable that they will do fo in general.- This obfervation would diminifh our furprize if, in fome rare inftances, we found cancer exifting .where a cancerous llrudlure was not llrikingly manifell; or if, in others, a (lru6lure like that of cancer was obferved where no can- cerous adlions were apparent. The feirrh'ous tumours, which form beneath the peritoneal covering or lining of the uterus, have fome- thing of the ftru6lure of cancer, and yet they are not cancerous. In all cafes where tit- mours are formed we mull fuppofe an in- creafe, and, in fome degree, a difordered a£lion of the velfels which form them ; but, in many thefe adlions pofTefs but little dif- eafed peculiarityw As in every cafe of growth, in the re-produdion of deftroyed parts, the gelatinousOF TUMOURS. »3^ gelatinous fubftance of the blood is firft depo- fited, and afterwards rendered vafcular, there- fore I have confidered a tumour formed in this manner as one of the moft fimple kind, and poffefling the lead of difeafed peculia- rity; but I am aware that I may have in- cluded under this general character tumours of effentially different natures. In the adi- pofe farcoma there muft be fome peculiarity in the arrangement and a6tions of veffels which form this tumour ; but it muft be ac- counted a natural rather than a morbid pecu- liarity. The pancreatic farcoma, I fhould fuppofe, differed but little from the firft fpecies. It may be confidered as a new growth charadterized merely by the peculiarity of its appearance, in confequence of its being fepa- rated into many diftiii6l parts, which fome- times cohere by a loofer kind of texture, and fometimes are feparated by a firaier fubftance. The connedling medium appears like the thickened cellular fubftance of the part in which the newly organized matter is formed. Indeed I have fometimes preffed out the fepa- rated portions of this fubftance from the con- ne<fting medium which environed them. In K 2 the13* A CLASSIFICATION, &C. the mammary farcoma I fufpeft fome difcafed peculiarity to exifl:, as has been mentioned in fpeaking of that fubjedt. In the tubercu- lated farcoma the predilpofition to that diC- eafe feems general on the part of the confti- tution. In the medullary farcoma the difeafe feems local, in the firft inftance, and propa- gated by means of the abforbing veffels to their glands, and frequently in a courfe re- trograde to that which the abforbed fluids would naturally take; but in the advanced jftate of the difeafe the morbid difpofltion ap- pears to be general. In carcinomatous far- coma the difeafe appears to begin in a point or fmall difl:ri6t, and to extend in every direc- tion, as rays do from a center, affe6ling every -furrounding part, whatever may be its nature. The difeafed aftions alfo, though they may be at times more violent or more tranquil, .never ceafe. This difeafe is alfo extended through the medium of the abforbing velTels in the direction which the abforbed matter would naturally take.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. ON CHRONIC AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. ( HRONIC abfccffes differ from thofe pro- duced by phlegmonoid inflammation in many particulars. In difeafes of an adfive and violent nature, the contiguous parts be- come affe6led, whilfl: in thofe of. an indolent difpofition they remain free from difeafe, and unaltered in ftrudlure. An abforbent gland, for inftance, may be enlarged to a confiderable fize; yet, if the difeafe be of an indolent na- ture, the furrounding cellular fubftance is- loofe and pliant. On the contrary, if one or two of thefe glands undergo adlive inflam- mation, the furrounding parts participate in the afledlion, and all traces of the glands primarily affedted, are loft in the more gene-, ral inflammation and abfcefs. In phlegmo- nous abfcefles, the inflammation which was 3 m.oft134 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES.,, moft violent in the centre, and had there terminated in fuppuration, had, at the fame time, induced adhefion of the fur- rounding cellular fubftancej and thus, the fides of the abfcels are, as it were, walled in and fupported; and the extenfion of the difeafe in the circumference is to a certain degree prevented. It alfo appears, that it is very much owing to the parts covering the front of the abfcefs partici- pating in the irritation, that the matter fo readily makes its way to the fprface, and is difcharged. On ,the contrary, in chronic abfceffes it generally happens, that very little adhefion of the furrounding fubftance takes place, and the matter is more at liberty to extend itfelf in all dire6tions j at the fame time, the parts covering it do nqt participate in the difeafe, they therefore do not inflame and ulcerate till their difliention induces them to do fo, and fuch a degree of diflention may not take place till the abfcefs has acquired an enor- mous magnitude. Now*35 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. Now, if it could be proved, and I think it pradlicable, that ehronie abfceffes are not from tlieir nature deleterious difeafes, but are difturbing and deftruftive to the confti- tution in proportion to their magnitude, we fhould tlien clearly fee, that the objedts of furgery in their treatment ought to be thofe of preventing their increafe, or reducing their dknenhcms. As inflammation varies in its degree, fo there are many abfcelfes neither ftridtly fpeak- ing phlegmonous nor chronic, but of an in- termediate nature. I think, therefore, it may be ufeful to infert a cafe of purely chro- nic abfcefs, as an illuflration of the preced- ing remarks. CASE I. An abfcefs containing twelve ounces of well-fonned pus took place beneath the integu- ments covering the upper part of the pedforal mufcle j it elevated the fkin, and had formed a globular kind of tumour. This fuppura- tion had been attended with fcarcely any pain, K 4 and136 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. and the integuments, although diftended, were indolent, and appeared perfedlly healthy and natural. I punftured the abfcefs with a lancet conveyed obliquely between the in- teguments and the cyft, evacuated the con- tained pus, and clofed the aperture with flicking plafler: but on the re-accumulation of matter it was no longer confined in a cyfl, but became diff’ufed through the cellular fub- flance leading to the axilla, in which a flight inflammation was produced. I was, there- fore, obliged to make a new orifice, and leave it open, that the fecreted matter might have an outlet, and not extend difeafe, by thus pervading the cellular fubflance. The furface of the cyfls of all abfceffes has the power of fecreting and abforbing their contents. Even phlegmonous abfceffes occafionally difperfe, and many cafes are on record of large abfcefles, which I conclude were of a chronic nature, being difperfed in confequence of the occurrence of a diarrhcea. It appears to me, that the cyfls of abfcefles perform the fame fundtion with refpedl to theirON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, *37 their contents that the membranous furfaces of cavities do in cafes of dropfy. In either inftance, if fecretion exceeds abforption, the difeafe enlarges; if it be equal, the difeafe is llationary; and if it be lefs, the difeafe di- minifhes. f With this view of the fubjeft, and know- ing the danger arifthg from the opening of chronic abfcelfes, I have endeavoured to dif- perfe them, and I have fometimes been fuc- cefsful in my attempts. As an inftance of what may be accompliflied, I relate the fol- lowing cafe: CASE II. A gentleman about twenty-fix years of age, confulted me on account of a very large abfcefs which had formed amidft the mufcles of his thigh. It protruded the fafcia on the front of the vaftus internus mufcle, from the patella to above the middle of the thigh : the pofterior mufcles of the thigh alfo bulged outwards, fo as to give a confi- derable convexity to the back part of the limb. The patient looked unhealthy j he was138 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. was languid and irritable j he had a furred tongue : the adlions of his bowels were irre- gular, and the fecretion of bile was deficient or faulty. I defired him to drink a pint of the deco6lion of farfaparilla daily; to take five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every fecond night, and to pay ftricl attention to keep his bowels regular. I alfo recommended a ban- dage to give fupport to the fides of the ab- feefs. However, it continued to increafe, and in about fix weeks the integuments at the lower part became more prominent than elfewhere, and felt heated and uneafy. Fear- ful of their becoming inflamed, and fruflrat- ing the plan of treatment which- I defigned to purfue, I opened the abfeefs with an ab- feefs lancet, making a wound about three- fourths of an inch in length. About thirty ounces of ferous pus flowed through this orifice, but the current was very frequently obftru<5led by large clots of that flakey fub- ftance which is fo commonly found in fuch abfeefles. Towards the end of the difeharge clots of blood obftrufted the orifices, and they were fo numerous and large, and came out of the aperture with fo much difficulty, that>39 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. that I thought it better to clofe the wound, even before the abfcefs was completely emptied, than run the rifque of irritating the fides of the wound by too much poking, or of admitting air into the cavity of the ab- fcefs. I therefore cleaned and clofed the fides of the wound by fticking plafter, and applied a roller round the limb. The wound healed, and the patient’s health was in fome degree improved. At firft the cavity of the abfcefs filled rapidly, fo that the fafcia pro- truded again. The protrufion, however, did not increafe, and the difeafe feemed ftation- ary. After about three weeks the patient was permitted to take exercife on account of his health, and he generally flept in the country. By thefe means, and with the continuance of his medicines, his appetite became good, and his bowels regular. He then left off the farfaparilla, and took the pil. hydrarg. only, when he obferved that the faeces were not of a proper colour. As the patient’s health amended, the abfcefs decreafed, fo that in about fix months there remained no evidence of fuch a difeafe having exifled. After fome time, the patient went140 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. into the army, where fatigue and irregula- rity of diet made him ill again, and he per- ceived fome fluid in the abfcefs. He, there- fore, felinquifhed this mode of life. On the reftoration of his health, to which the ufe of the fame medical means feemed to be contri- butory, no veftiges of the abfcefs remained; and though many years have now elapfed, no return of the local difeafe has taken place. As chronic abfcefles in general form in confequence of a difordered ftate of the conftitution j and as it is fubjedb to great difturbance when they become open, fo it is requifite to endeavour to improve the general fliate qf health prior to that event. By fuch means I have feen feveral chronic abfcefles difpcrfed; and even if our endeavours have only the effe6l of rendering the abfcefs ffationary, whiifl: the patient’s health is improving, it is produ6live of great srood, fince it enables th® conftitution to en- counter that dlforder attendant on the ab- fcefs becoming open. Such topical applica- tions as will afterwards be mentioned, may be employed at the fame time, with a view to^ ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. I4I to render the abfcefs ftat’ionary, or to dimini fli it, by leffening the fecretion into the cavity, and by promoting abforption from it. I may alfo add, that I have feen feveral abfceffes, which continued to enlarge under fuch ma- nagement in the firll inftance, difperfed by it, after they had been once pundlured. The foregoing remarks and cafes are de- figned to illuftrate the nature of chronic ab- fcefl'es in general, and I now proceed to conli- der the mod: important fpecies of fuch a difeafe that we meet with in practice, I mean the lumbar abfcefs. Some lumbar abfceffes can indeed fcarcely be denominated chronic j they are formed with fo much pain, the pus which tliey contain being good, and fo un- like what is generally found in the cyfts of indolent abfceffes, that we muff fuppofe the difeafe which produced it was of a different nature. I have fecn alfo inflammatory fever induced when fuch an ablcefs has become open, which was an additional proof of its being of a phlegmonoid nature. Such oc- currences are ' indeed very rare: but it very commonly happens that the formation of lumbar14* ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES* lumbar abfceffes is attended with more pain^ and other inflammatory fymptoms, than are incident to chronic abfcefs in general. Whatever the nature of a lumbar abfcefs ttiay be, the furgical treatment of it mufl: be limilar to that of a chronic abfcefs j for as the matter prefents in a part of the body which is fo remote from that where it was originally formed, as not to fympathize with the difeafe; fo the progrefs of the abfcefs, before breaking, will refemble that of a chronic abfcefs. To ufe the language of Mr. Hun- ter, a lumbar abfcefs, where it prefents, is to be confidered as an abfcefs in the part, and not as an abfcefs of the part. As lumbar abfeefles in general defeend along the pfoas mufcle, under Poupart’s ligament, and prefent beneath the fafeia of the thigh, the refiflance of the fafeia affords an additional obftacle to the progrefs of the matter to the furface, fo that fuch abfeefles, if left to themfelves, often acquire an enor- mous magnitude before they fpontaneoufly open. Lumbar■ 7 former <)N LUMflAfi. AB3QES5ES. Lumbar abfceffes alfo, in general are not fimple difeafes j they arife from and commu- nicate with carious vertebrae; which cir- cumftance is, I believe, the caufe of their frequent fatality. The firft eight cafes that I attended, after I had adopted a new mode of opening them, were fimple abfceffes, and not ariling from difeafe of the bone; which led me to believe, that they were more fre- quently unconnedled with difeafed bone than, later experience has taught me. The general opinion of furgeons, in which I entirely concur, is, that lumbar abfcelTes moft fre- quently arife in confequence of difeafes of the vertebrae, and they fliould certainly all be treated as if fuch was their origin. Before I proceed to defcribe the particular treatment which I would recommend in chronic and lumbar abfcclfes, it will be ufe- ful to enquire into the caufe of that confti- tutional diforder, which is fo generally con- fequent to their becoming open. It has been afcribed to the admiflion of air into the cavity of the abfcefs, or to the abforption of pus from it. That it is not owing to the;I44 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. . 8 all former, we infer, becaufe air does not appear' to be ftimulating to thofe furfaces of the animal body, to which it is not naturally applied. The air which' efcapes from a wounded lung, and renders the cellular fubftance emphyfematous, produces no in- flammation of it. Air has alfo been blown into different cavities of the body, to afcer- tain its effeftsf and it has been abforbed from them without having excited any in- flammation. Neither does air appear to be ftimulating to the expofed furfaces of ulcers which are in a ftate of difeafe. Yet, though air leems to have no ftimulating property to . fuch furfaces, and therefore cannot be afligned as the caufe of that irritation and inflamma- tion confequent to the opening of an abfcefs, ■yet it is of the higheft importance in purfuing the treatment which I have recommended in thefe abfceftes, that no bubble of air ftiould be admitted into the cavity, becaufe it would probably caufe the putrefa6tion of the fluid contained in the abfcefs, the abforption of which would be very deleterious. To ftiew the confequences that might arife from fuch an occurrence, and to urge the neceflity ofON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. *45 all that caution which I (hall recommend in opening lumbar abrcefl'es, I relate the fol- lowing cafe: CASE III. A furgeon difcharged a large quantity of pus, containing flakes, from a lumbar abfcefs, which prefented itfelf beneath the fafcia of the thigh. The matter was difcharged through a wound made by an abfcefs lancet,, and in holding open the orifice with probes, in order to give difcharge to fome coagula, a bubble or two of air was admitted into the cavity of the abfcefs. His afliftant per- ceived this occurrence, and mentioned it to me prior to the coming on of thofe fymptoms which afterwards took place. When the abfcefs was emptied, the wound was clofed with flicking plafler, and bound down by many flraps of plafter placed over it. On the third day the patient was attacked by fo violent a putrid fever, that it could be com- pared to no other, unlefs to fuch as is occa- fioned by the plague. The fafcia of the thigh was elevated as much as it had been before the operation j the fkin was very hot, and of VOL. iv. L a dufky14^ ON lumRar abscesses. a dufky colour. On removing the ftraps and coverings from off the wounded part, a large blaft of fmtid air burft from the aper- ture, which was followed by the difcharge of a conliderable quantity of a very offenlive and bloody fluid. The patient lived but twenty hours; and, on examining his body afterwards, a confiderable quantity of bloody fluid was found effufed into all the large cavities. If the notions which have been delivered refpe61:ing abfcefles be corre6f, I mean, that there is continual fecretion, and continual abforption from the cyft, as from a mem- branous fur face, or from that of an ulcer, then it would follow, that the abforption of pus cannot be produdliye of fever. Though abforption of pus is continually taking place, yet n0«fever occurs before the opening of an abfcefs, neither does it come on where ab- fcefles are difperfed, and where fuch abforp- tion mufl: indifputably have happened. It is true, in thefe cafes, the pus is generally inoflenfive in its qualities j it might be con- tended, that though it be admitted into the circula-ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES.' circulation with impunity, yet fome of the foetid matter ufually difcharged from the fur- faces of open abfceffes, being abforbed from them, might prove the caufe of the fever. We do not however find fuch fever pro- duced by the abforption of foetid matter from the fui'faces of large ulcers. We frequently apply the term putrid to fubftances merely foetid, as well as to thofe in a ftate of chemi- cal putrefadlion ; and from this inaccuracy of language, I fufpeft the equal inaccuracy of opinion has arifen, which has led to the belief of deleterious confequences fuc- ceeding to the abforption of matter. [I need not difcufs thefe fubjedls further, be- caufe the enquiry into the true caufe of the fever will furnifh arguments to refute falfe notions. An attentive examination of the 4iibje61: will, I believe, convince us, that the fever depends upon the ftate of irritation and in- flammation which takes place in the cyft of the abfcefs. Firft, becaufe its violence cor- refponds with the degree of local inflamma- tion. Thus, in the old method of opening t 2 chronic148 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. chronic abfcefTes by an incifion of confiderable length, the fever was much more violent than when the abfceffes were fuffered to break of themfelves, or when they are merely pun6lured. Secondly, becaufe the kind and degree of fever accords with the ftate of in- flammation and irritation exiffing in the cyfl: of the ablcefs. Thirdly, When a lum- bar abfcefs opens fpontaneoufly, in a man- ner produftive of the leafl: poflible irritation to the cyfl, the patient fometimes remains for many days without heat or pain in the part, and without fever. Afterwards, when the cyfl has become irritated and in- flamed, and the conftitution difturbed by a peculiar kind of fever, the fymptoms may, and generally do fubfide, and the patient merely feels languid, and flightly hedlical. If local irritation is again excited, again the concomitant fever takes place. The cafes which I fliall afterwards relate will, I think, prove thefe aflertions, and they have induced, me to believe, that the diflurbance of tho conftitution at large depends upon,, and ac- cords with the local difeafe. Such opinions lead to this pradical conclufion, tlrat if we wiili 'ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. I49 wifli to prevent or mitigate the fever, which exhaufts the patient’s powers, we hiould do every thing to prevent and allay the local diforder, which is likely to ai'ife in the abfcefs. There feems nothing myfterious or diffi- cult to account for, in the effe6ls refulting from an abfcefs becoming open. If any of the natural cavities of the body were in the fame date, inflammation would enfue, and would produce a fever correfponding to it in its nature and degree. From the weak and peculiar ftate of conftitution, fubjedt to chronic abfcefs, both the local inflammation and the concomitant fever are in general of a peculiar kind : the local inflammation par- takes of what would, in general, be deno- minated an eryfipelatous nature, and the fever of a violent and rapid heclic. • I have however known the opening of a lumbar abfcefs produdlive of inflammation of a phlegmonoid charadler in the cyft, and then the conftitutional affection was likewife what we term inflammatory fever. L 3 Having /ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 150 Having thus endeavoured to invcftlgatc the caufe of the evils refulting from a chronic abfcefs becoming open, I may further add, that if the opinions which I have formed of them be corredf, the danger muft greatly depend upon the dimenfions of the abfcefs. A chronic'‘abfcefs, beneath the fafcia of the thigh, may be opened, when it contains four ounces of pus; and if the furface becomes irritated and inflamed, it may induce a de- gree of conftitutional difturbance and fever ; yet fuch an abfcefs negledied, may increafe till it holds four quarts ^; and then, if it becomes open, and has the fame degree of local difeafe, and it were granted that it fhould only a6l upon the conftitution in the fame proportion, it muft produce more than thirty times the degree of fever. If alfo we are to afcribe the weaknefs confequent to the opening of chronic abfceftes in any degree to the drain of fluids which takes place from them, it will be in the fame proportion * I have difcharged four ale-houfe quarts full of matr ter from beneath the fafcia of the thigh. greater'ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, ' 15I greater in the latter than in the former cafe. It feems however probable, that it is the violent aftions which exhauft the patient’s ftiength, and not the lofs of fluids; for in dropfies of the ovary a much greater lofs of more nutritive fluids is not attended with weaknefs in any material degree. After this difculTion of the nature and caufe of the ill confequences refulting from the opening of chronic abfcefles, we may proceed to eftablifli rules for their treatment. The firfl; objedt, I think, is to difperfe, if poflible, lumbar abfcefles, becaufe it is mofl: probable that the matter is in contafl. with difeafed bones; and that the inflammation confequent to the abfcefs becoming open, will be communicated to thofe parts. With this view, an ifTue fliould be made in the loins, which is likely to be beneficial by its counter irritation, even when the ab- fcefs is not connedled with difeafed bone 5 but when it is, then an ilTue will be ftill more ferviceable and neceffary. The patient alfo fliould be kept in bed till all inflamma- L 4 ^ tory152 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. toiy tendency, which will be indicated by the increale of the abfcefs, has ceafed. Then exercife in the open air may be permitted, on account of its beneficial operation on the conftitution of the patient*. It fhould in- deed be our unremitting object throughout to invigorate and tranquillize the conftitu- tion ; and the means which I fhould employ for this'purpofe, are thofe which tend to pre- fervc the digeftive organs in, or reftore them to a ftate of health. If the abfcefs becomes open notwithftanding all our endeavours to the contrary, thefe meafures will enable the conftitution tg bear up againft the difeafe; and as fuch local difeafes are the confequence of a weakened and difordered ftate of body, They may, by relieving the caufe, remove at the fame time the effedts, as has been fhewn in the fecond cafe. That lumbar abfcefies may be difperfed by thefe meafures, will be proved by the cafes which I fhall afterwards relate: that we lhall * Probably it would be bell to exercife with crutches, as the lumbar mufcles on the affected fide would then be exempt from tidion. oftenON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. <53 often fall in our endeavours to difperfe them, is indeed highly probable in reafon, and equally proved by occurrences in pradfice. Let us then fuppofe, that a lumbar ab- fcefs treated in this manner continues to in- creafe, that it protrudes the integuments, that they, from diftentlon, become irritated; that their temperature is flightly augmented; what are we then to do ? Are we to wait till evident figns of inflammation appear ? I think not. I would then relieve them frorh diftention, by emptying the abfcefs through a wound made by an abfcefs lancet. I would open the abfcefs for a reafon which appears paradoxical on its firfl: propofal, which i§, that it may be kept clofed. We can empty a cavity, and by healing the wound, keep it afterwards fhut, and no in- flammation enfues. If nature opens the cavity by ulceration, the opening is perma- nent, and the inflammation confequent mult be endured. When I firfl: treated abfceffes in this manner, I pundlured them with a trochar. I now ufe an abfcefs lancet, which is introduced with very little obliquity, fo far thatON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. *54 14 ful that the wound of the cyft of the abfcels fhould be half an inch in length, and that of the integuments of courfe a little longer. A wound of that lize is generally fufficient to give difcharge to the folid flalces which will occafionally block up the opening, without much poking. It is neceffaiy that the flow of matver fhould be uninterrupted, fo that no air fhould gain admittance ^ it is there- fore right to make preffure on the abfcefs in proportion as it is emptied. The abfcefs where it prefents itfelf is emptied before that part of it in the loins is completely fo. The . furgeon fliould then prefs the fides of the wound together with his finger and thumb, fo as to prevent the ingrefs of air, and defire the patient to cough repeatedly, which will impel the "matter from the internal part of the abfcefs into that which is puii6lured. When the abfcefs is emptied as much as poflible, the wound fhould be attentively- wiped, and the edges placed in exadt contadf, and retained in that ftate by flrips of plafter. I interpofe fome lint between the plafler and the furface of the wound, clofing it exaflly •as that made in venaefedlion. I think it life-ON lumbar abscesses. 155 ful to put a fmall comprefs over the part where the orifice is, and give it a flight degree of prefllire by longer ftrips of plafler. It is of great confequence that the patient lie per- fe6lly ftill, and that the plafters are not moved. I think it better not to put on a bandage, becaufe> then the patient may per- ceive whether the plafters are right or wrong. I drefs the wound every fecond day. It generally unites by adhefion, though fomc' times otherwife, for it may difeharge a little, and yet unite firmly. An abfeefs, thus treated, is as free from inflammation as it was before it was punftured. The abfeefs will, however, fill again, and that fometimes even rapidly. In the firft cafes which I at- tended, I pundlured it pretty regularly after the expiratioif of a fortnight, and I found in general, that the abfeefs contained about one-third Icfs of fluid. I have, indeed, been obliged to pundture the abfeefs at firft before the end of the fortnight, becaufe it had become diftended, and I was fearful that the diftention might caufe the newly healed wound to inflame, or unclofe itfelf. After having difeharged the contents of theI5<J ON LUMBAJl ABSCESSES. the abfcefs three or four times, I found that it was not neceffary, nor indeed eafily prac- ticable to punfture it at the end of the fort- night, becaufe it was fo little filled and pro- minent. Since my attention has been more dire6led to the difperfion of abfcefies, I have generally been able, by fuch means as tend to lefien the a6lions, and 'confequent fecretion of the cyft of the abfcefs, and alfo to pro- ' mote abforptfon, to protra6t confiderably the the intervals of time at which it has feemed necelTaiy to pun6lure the abfcefs, lefi: it fliould become diftended. Nay, I have been able, to difperfe many lumbar abfcefles after hav- ing punftured them twice or thrice, though I was incapable of preventing their increafe prior to thefe meafures. ♦ The difperfion of lumbar abfceflTes is the grand object which a furgeon Ihould have in view thrpughout the treatment of them. He Ihould endeavour to difperfe them, but by means which are, at the fame time, calcu- lated to increafe the patient’s ftrength. if, however, the abfcefs increafes, and he is obliged to open it, in order to prevent its becoming*57 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. becoming open fpontaneoufly/ he ftiould ftill purfue the fame meafures; for the necefTity of his puncturing it again is thereby diminifhed, and he gains time, which he employs in endeavouring to in- vigorate the conftitution, and diminifh the difeafc of the bone, upon which perhaps the abfcefs depends. Suppofe, however, he is unable to effect his chief defign, that of difperfing the abfceft; fuppofe after having pun6tured it five or fw times, at long inter- vals, one of the punctures inflames and ulce- rates j it muff, I think, be evident, that great good has been effected by the meafures that have been purfued. After a lumbar ab- fcefs has been pun6tured, the fluids fecreted into it, will flow into that pait where there Vs the leaft refiftaace, which ^is the part that has been punctured. The preffure of refpiration will urge them from the original cavity into the now vacant fpacc, where the abfcefs had prefented itfelf. The original ca\’ity being a long time thus kept empty, will contract into a fmall fiftulous tube. ThofeV 15^ ON LUMBAR ABSCESSED. A 7^hofe wllo are advocates for letting lum- bar abfcelles open themfelves by ulceration, becaufe it imparts lefs irritation to the cyft than a wound occalions, have in this cafe their v/iflies gratified ; a much reduced lum- bar abfcefs does, when treated in this man- nor, open by ulceration. If there be any truth in the reafoning which I have employed, fliewing that the conftitutional diforder will be in proportion to the extent of the furface affefted with difeafe, that furface is now comparatively fmall. It miifi: however be granted, that under thefe favourable circumftances, when the abfcefs leads to carious bones, the difeafe is - generally, though not conftantly, fatal. In- ftances have been known of pieces of moul- dered vertebras making their way through the fiftulous remains of the abfcefs, and obtaining an external outlet; and yet the patient has recovered. As we cannot know whether the bone be difeafed or not, and as thefe abfcelTes fo generally arife from that caufe, we fhould always a6t with a caution fuggefted by the opinion that they doON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 1^9 Uo fo. When the abfcefs has become open by the ulceration of one of the punc- tures, which the furgeon has made in order to reduce its dimenfions, or fo to alter its flate as to increafe his chance of difperling it, the patient muft encounter the rifque at- tendant on the difeafe ; but the furgeon has ftill much to do. The ulcerated part fhould be drelTed with mild falve; evaporating wafhes, or poultices, fhould be applied over it; in fhort, every means fhould be employed to prevent the cyfl inflaming, in confequence of irritation imparted to it from the ulce- rated punfture. Perfe6l quietude feems to be eflential at this period of the cafe, for mo- tion of the loins will induce or aggravate in- flammation in the originally difeafed parts. Sometimes a confiderable time elapfes before the cyfl inflames, and when it does, opium fliould be given to quiet it. Sometimes the irritation and inflammation of the cyfl: fub- fides, and the abfcefs becoming indolent the conflitution is no longer diflurbed, and the patient may be permitted to exercife for the benefit of his general health. Beforel6o ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 8 nent. Before I proceed to the relation of the cafes, from which the preceding views of the nature and treatment of lumbar abfceffes were taken, I think it right to relate the cafe which firft fuggefted to me that mode of opening thefe abfceffes which I recom- mend; becaufe, it fhews that an abfcefs of this kind, attended with even very favourable circumftances, may a prove fatal difeafe if mifmanaged. CASE IV. A young man, about twenty-feven years of age, of a mufcular form, and healthy conftitution, came from the country to the hofpital, to obtain relief from a colle6lion of matter which prefented itfelf in the upper and fore-part of the thigh, beneath the fafcia, and immediately below Poupart’s ligament. The pain which he had previoufly fuffered in his loins, and the impulfe of matter into the tumour Upon his coughing, left little doubt of the original feat of the difeafe. The fafcia of the thigh had yielded confiderably to the colle6ted pus, fo that it did not defcend fo low as is common, but appeared very promi-ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. l6 £ / nent. Although he had endured confiderable pain, he had not fufFered much from fever on the firft formation of the abfcefs. A cauftic was applied on the tumour to give difcharge to the matter, and three days afterwards the efchar was divided. —■ Eight ounces of very perfectly formed, moderately confiftent, and inodorous pus ilfued from the incifion. — The fides of tlie efchar now clofcd up the wound and prevented any further eva- cuation of matter. This the furgeon did not attempt to produce, thinking the delay would be ufeful. For three days no more fluid was evacuated, during which time the young man remained perfe6lly well, and his thigh free from infla- mation. — On the fourth day the efchar be- came fo much loofened in its circumference that part of it gave way, and eight ounces more of fimilar and perfe6lly inodorous pus were difcharged. In twelve hours after this detachment of the efchar, he fuffered much from fever and pain in the part, and the dif- charge became putrid. In two days the fever, VOL. IV. M whichi62 on lumbar abscesses. which was of the he6lic kind, feemed to be eftabliflied, and from the fore there flowed a copious and increafing quantity of foetid pus. His fkin was now hot, his face fluflied, he fweated profufely in the night, his appetite failed him, his pulfe'beat 120 in a minute, his tongue was but little altered from its natu- ral appearance, he had no fleep, and was dif- treflingly reftlefs. — Thefe fymptoms con- tinued about a week without ceflation ; they then appeared flightly to remit, and proceeded for three weeks in the fame manner, with fome little diminution in their feverity j his fl;rength Was now greatly exhaufted, the dif- charge from the abfcefs very profufe, and in this ftate it was thought right to have him conveyed into the country, where I am in- formed he gradually declined, and in about flx weeks more he died. V Cases of Lumbar Ahfcejfes difperfed without being opened. CASE V. I was defired to vifit a young lady in the country, in order to open a lumbar abfcefs, whichON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 163 which preferited beneath the fafcia of the thigh. It was not, however, fufficiently pro- minent to admit of the introdaftion of a lancet with fafety, but there was a very forcible impulfe of matter into it when the patient coughed. The patient was about fourteen years of age j her lumbar vertebrae were bent into more than a femicircle, and it is certain that a great number of the bodies of the vertebrae were deftroyed by difeafe. The countenance was flufned, the pulfe 120; the body emaciated, and the appetite loft. In ftiort, it appeared to me, and the other medical attendants, that fhe was not likely to live. I explained to her father, that the op'ening of the abfcefs would be almoft certain to d^broy her; that if a neceffity arofe from its increafe, it might be punftured at a future period, only in order to prevent its being permanently open. I endeavoured to explain to him the neceftity of attempting to relieve the difeafe on which the abfcefs depended. With this view I recommended reft, and a horizontal pofition, except when exercife in a carriage was permitted for the benefit of her general M 2 health.1 164 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. health. A moderate-lized blifter was allb dire6led to be kept open, by means of the favine cerate on each fide of the fpine. Great attention was alfo paid to improve her health, by obviating errors in the fandtions of the digeftive organs. The patient lived at a confiderable diftance from London, and I received during about fifteen months, fre- quent letters from her father, containing little elfe than expreffions of exultation and thanks. His daughter’s appetite was im- proved, and her Ibrength increafcd^ the he6lic fever had left her j the abfcefs could no longer be perceived; flae had become quite fat and robuff, and had grown two inches in ftature within the twelve months. After this time, the tone of his letters varied. He thought the difcharge from the blifters might produce weaknefs; and, I believe, they were not continued for any confiderable time, though I urged it as ftrongly as I could. The young lady, however, recovered, and had no return of the abfcefs. CASEON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. CASE VI. A man between thirty and forty years of age, came from the country to St. Bartho- lomew’s Hofpital, on account of a lumbar abfcefs, which had made its way outwards, and protruded the integuments of the back, on the left fide of the lumbar vertebras. The Ikin was very prominent, and the circum- ference of the abfcefs conliderable. I think I do not exaggerate, when I fay, that twelve ounces of pus were colledled in the external abfcefs. The patient was feeble, and of a fickly afpe6l, and I thought that the bone was difeafed. I defired him to remain in bed, and to keep open a moderate-fized blifter on the left fide of the loins; endeavouring, at the fame time, to produce, by means of me- dicines, an amendment in his general health. In about two months there was no appear- ance of any external abfcefs. The patient was now defired to get up daily, and walk in the open air, but to lie on the bed when he returned. He remained in the Hofpital purfuing thefe meafures for two months M 3 longer;l66 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. longer j and though there was not the lead: appearance of the abfcefs during this period, I could not perceive much amendment in his general health or appearance. Indeed, as no good feemed to be done by his refidencc in' the hofpital, I advifed him to return into the country, requefting him, at the fame time, to inform me of the progrefs of his complaint or recovery; but I never after- wards heard of him, I was induced to put down this brief ac- count of the preceding cafe at the time, from the furprize which it excited in my mind, as I had expe6fed It to proceed in a very differ- ent manner. Later experience would pre- vent me from feeling furprize at fuch occur- rences, for I have feen feveral lumbar ab- fceffes difperfed by fimilar meafures j I mean, counter irritation, and endeavours to im- prove the patient’s health. Though I could relate the circumftances from memory, and even refer to fome of the fubjedls of them, yet the narrative would be little more than a repetition of the fa6t, and it might tend to induce ION LUMBAR ABSCESSES. l6j M 4 Mr. induce ftudents to expe6l fuch occurrences to be frequent j vvhilft, on the contrary, I am ready to admit, that they probably will be rarely met with in general practice. Cases of htmbar Abfcejfes that have been difperfed after their Contents have been dtfcharged, CASE VII. Harris, thirty-five years of age, had a confiderable colle6tion of matter beneath the integuments of the abdomen, forming a moderately prominent tumour, about three inches in diameter, and fituated juft above Poupart’s ligament. The patient had fuf- fered a great deal from pain in his loins j and the motion of the thigh had been much im- peded, but was now tolerably free. Indeed there was no doubt that the matter had been originally formed in the loins; from whence it was violently impelled, fo as to elevate the prominent integuments of the abdomen, whenever he coughed. — By permiftlon of168 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. Mr. Long, under whofe care he was admitted into the hofpital, I pundlured the tumour, and difcharged about 24 ounces of pus, mixed with fome flakes of a curd-like fub- ffance. The wound healed readily, and no confiderable alteration of his health enfued, though he found himfelf weaker for fome days after the operation. — At the end of a fortnight, I made a fecond pundlurej and let out between fix and feven ounces of a turbid fluid. He now thought himfelf fo much better than after the firfl: evacuation, that he went out of the hofpital j but re- turned again at the expiration of a fortnight, when, by a third pundlure, fix ounces of purulent matter were difcharged; and, after another week, four ounces more were let out. A caufliic was now applied to his loins, and four or five peas ufed to keep the ulcer open; from which time no matter could be difcovered in the abfcefs during the fix weeks that be remained in the hofpital. About eighteen months after this, he was admitted into the hofpital on account of a feverON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 169 fever and fore throat j and it appeared he had never experienced any farther complaint in his loins. This cafe, I think, is very interefting, in- afmuch as it contributes to prove that the cavity of a lumbar abfcefs may be entirely obliterated without the cyft undergoing any of ihofe changes which generally take place when it is laid open, CASE VIII. Elizabeth Smyth, aged twenty-feven, had a lumbar abfcefs, which prefented beneath the fafeia of the thigh. The previous fymp- toms rendered the nature of the complaint indifputable; and as fhe not only fliewed evident marks of a fcrofulous habit, but alfo felt confiderable inability in moving the fpine, there was great reafon to fufpeft that the abfcefs originated from a difeafe in the bone. She was likewife troubled with cou2:h, and drew in very little air when fhe infpired. 14 Her17® ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. Her appetite, too, was often deficient, and Iier bowels frequently difordered. It may alfo be added, that her brother, who greatly re- fembled her, was at this time a patient in the hofpital, under Mr. Long, on account of a fcrofulous difeafe of the fpine, which bad occafioned an affedtion of the medulla Ipinalis. When all thefe circumftances were taken into account, fhe certainly appeared a fubjecl by no means capable of fuftaining the irritation and diforder which the burfting of a lumbar abfcefs might be expcdled to pro- duce. I therefore pundtured the abfcefs im- mediately, and difcharged from it twenty ounces of flaky matter: and having healed the wound, I gave her emetics of vitriolated zinc and copper, and afterwards of ipeca- cuanha, twice or three times a week, for fix weeks. At the end of this time, there was fo little matter in the abfcefs, that I thought it too fmall to be pundlured with fafety; and as her health was too infirm to admit of tlie emetics being continued, I tried to pro- duce abforption of the remaining matter, by pafTmg the eledlric fluid through the abfcefs. IQ VeryON LUMBAR. ABSCESSES. tjt Very fmall ele6lric fhocks * were accordingly fent from different parts by the fide of the lumbar vertebrae, down to the groin, and upper part of the affe6led thigh j and, under this treatment, the contents of the abfeefs foon difappeared; nor did any further col- le£fion of matter take place during the time of her remaining in the houfe, which was nearly two months. The eleftridty alfo brought on the menn;rual difeharge, which for a long time had been very irregular; and her general health was greatly improved be- fore fhe left the hofpital -f-. * Thefe fmall fliocks, which, for the fake of diftinc- tion, I {hall call eleGric vibrations (a term, I believe, generally applied to them), were made by difeharging a fmall jar, the coated furface of which did not exceed fourteen fquare inches: and by placing the ball of the ele£lrometer at a fmall diftance from the conductor, ge- nerally about a quarter of an inch. One of the difeharging rods was then moved about on the upper part of the thigh, and the other on the loins, fo that the eleftric fluid might pafs through the abfeefs. f I have lately heard, that the abfeefs has not appeared again, though a year has fmee elapfed; but the pain in her loins, has (as might have been expedted) recurred. CASE9N LUMBAR ABSCESSES. CASE IX. ’ Elizabeth Hart, about thirty years of age, had fuffered greatly from pain in her loins, for ten months. During that time, matter had been formed, and made its way down beneath Poupart’s ligament, in fuch quan- tity as confiderably to diftend the fafcia of the thigh. She was much reduced in ftrength, and in the appearance of health, by this complaint j but as her conftitution was good, and fhe could move the fpine with facility, there was no reafon to fufpe6l any difeafe of the bone. I punftured the abfcefs, and difcharged two quarts of very healthy pus: and occafionally, after the orifice hadclofed, I ordered her emetics. She could not continue them regularly, how- ever j as,duringtheirufe, her bowels becamedif- ordered, and fhe loft her appetite and ftrength. The accumulation of matter was, notwith- ftanding, evidently delayed by them; for when, at the end of thi'ee weeks, I next pundlured the abfcefs, only one quart of ferous fluid was evacuated. After the fpace of 1ON LUMBAR ABSCESS2S. *73 of a month had elapfed, another quart was difcharged. During this time die had taken emetics occafionally; but her health was far from good, and the pain in her loins was dill confiderable. — I had now witnelTed the beneficial effefts of ele6lricity in the cafe of the lafi: patient, and refolved upon trying it here. It was accordingly employed three times a week, for three weeks. At fird, a fmall colle6fion of fluid in the abfcefs was perceptible j but this was gradually abforbed; and by the end of the third week, there was no longer any pain in her loins, her health was greatly improved, and fhe was able to walk about, without the lead appearance of her former complaint. She was therefore dif- charged from the houfe; but came once a week, for fome time, to be ele^lrified The two lad cafes point out to notice a remedy that is likely to be of much advan- tage in the future treatment of lumbar ab- fceflcs. Myexperienceofit,however,has notyet * This patient remains atprefeut in perfect health ; nor there any reafon to expe£l a rdapfe. enabledON LUMBAR ABSCESSES- 174 enabled me to determine how far it may be generally beneficial. In one inftance where I employed it after the abfeefs had been once punftured, it kept the matter from collefting for a long time; but the patient growing, tired of the confinement, and apprehenfive left the lancet fliould be again employed, left the hofpital without my knowledge. — Of another, and fomewhat analogous difeafe, in which it was tried, though not with com- plete fuccefs, I fliall here relate the parti- culars j firft remarking, that all the obfer- vations which I have made on eleftricity applied to difeafed parts, lead me to conclude, that it a6Is as a ftimulus, which has the peculiar effe<5l of accelerating that procefs which happens to be going on at the time.— Thus, in fome .ftates of inflammation, it haftens fuppuration, whilft in others it promotes difperfion. We fliould therefore always endeavour, previous to the ufe of this remedy, to bring the tumour or abfeefs into that ftate in which its progrefs is flopped, and in which, perhaps, it is rather inclined to recede} and by this rule I have beenON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 175 guided in the application of this remedy to lumbar abfceffes. I have alfo been attentive to proportion the number and ftrength of the vibrations to th« effe6l which they appeared to produce on the abfeefs: their operation feemed to be mofl; beneficial when they occafioned a kind of irritation or flight uneafmefs in the part for a fhort time after their application. B ut if this fenfation amounted to pain, or if it was of too long continuance, I then fuppofe that the ftimulus had been employed in too great a degree. CASE X. Ifrael Brooks, aged twenty-five, about two years ago, was firfl feized with violent pain in his loins, which prevented him fi*om either riding or walking for Ibme time. About three months afterwards, he had the rheumatifm in the joint of one of his fingers, which fiiifted to his wrift, where it pro- duced a thickening and difeafe of that part; and at prefent, all the carpal bones are evi- dently difeafed, and difplaced. This difeafe alfoON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 176 alfo attacked his left knee, where it occa- fioned an enlargement of the joint, which {fill continues. Two months after this, he dif- covered a fwelling beneath the glutaeus mufcle, which has gradually increafed; and fincc that time the pain in his loins has become much lefs fevere, but a fenfation of great weaknefs remains. This abfcefs was fhewn to me at the hofpital, as an inftance of a remarkably large one; and there was no doubt but that it contained between two and three quarts of matter. There was alfo a prominence of the fafcia on the front of the thigh below Poupart’s ligament, accom- panied with evident flu6luation. The feveral gentlemen^ who examined this latter tumour, thought they could perceive an impulfe given to it from within, whenever the patient coughed; whence it was fuppofed to have its rife from a lumbar abfcefs: but whether the abfcefs under the glutaeus mufcle communi- cated with the loins or not, we were unable to determine, as no fuch impulfe could be felt in it. I gave the patient emetics of vitriolated zinc and copper; and kept up an eruption of177 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. of pimples on the fldn covering the abfcefs, by rubbing it with a ftrong foliition of tar- tarifed antimony. Gentle electric vibrations were alfo daily pafTed from the loins through the front of the thigh, and alfo through the glutasal abfcefs. By this treatment, con- tinued for two months, the tumour was very much reduced in fize; that is, as far as could be judged of by the eye; for its fituation prevented any accurate meafurement of it. In fpite of our endeavours, however, the patient’s health had declined lince his admiflion into the hofpital; and in propor- tion as he loft ftrength, his other local com- plaints became worfc. — As it was now fum- mer-time, and he had an opportunity of gojng to the fea, which had formerly been of fervice to him, I pundfured the glutaeal abfcefs without lofs of time, let out three pints of healthy pus, and then healed the opening. His weaknefs increafed confider- ably after this difcharge, and all his other complaints were much aggravated. The eleftricity was ftill perfevered in ; and at the end of three weeks, the quantity of matter in the abfcefs was very fmall; I cannot fup- VOL. IV. N Dofe17S ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES^ pofc it was more than eight ounces. — I very much wiflied to have had an opportunity of making freflr pundlures in this cafe; but tho flate of the patient’s health obliged me^ however reludfantly, to difeharge him from; the hofpitaL • ; I have always found that abfeefles, evacu- ated in this manner, filled' again to one half or two thirds of their original quantity in the fpace of a fortnight r fo that here alfo,. the beneficial effedfs of ele6frieity are, in my ©pinion, fufficiently manifeft. Of late years I have not, however, em- ployed the meafures purfued in the cafes above recorded, but trufted altogether to fuch as feemed- calculated to improve the health,- by tranquillizing and invigorating, the digeftive organs. The refult of fuch management has been,, that, in general,, the abfeefs has difappeared for a confiderable time, after it has been two or three times- punctured. After the lapfe of fome time, however, one of the pun6fures made for the difeharge of the matter has unclofed, eitherON LtJMBAR ABSCESSES. '179 N 2 Of either with or without fome trivial colleclioii of fluid previoufly being formed in the cavity; and, I regret to add, that of late, in ^ general, the difeafe thus circumflanced, has terminated fatally. Yet, I think, it will be admitted, that abfcefles which open in this manner, open in a manner producing the leafl: poflible irritation to the conftitu- tion; and that the previous treatment, which they have undergone, has materially tended to diminifli the rifk commonly attendant on fuch difeafes. I conclude then by relat- ing one cafe of lumbar abfcefs, treated in the manner v/hich feems to me beft, which ter- minated fatally, as an example of what, I fear, will be the frequent termination of fuch xafes. I will add, however, feveral cafes, to fhew, that lumbar abfcefles, when open, are not neceflarily deftru6five dif- eafes, and to fuggefl: the treatment which ought to be purfued under fuch adverfe cir- cumftances*180 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES'. Of Ijumbar Abfcejfes becoming permanently open. CASE XL James White, aged twenty-five years, came from EfTex to be admitted into St. Bartholo- mew’s Hofpital, on account of a lumbar ab- fcefs. He had fuffered much from pain of his loins for twelve months ; and for fome time pafl: had experienced a difficulty in lifting up his right thigh. There was a curvature in the dorfal vertebriE > but that, he informed me, was an old complaint. Yet, from the ge- neral appearance of the man, from the dif- ficulty he had in moving the upper part of the trunk upon the lumbar vertebrae, and from the caution with which he attempted this motion, I could not but fufpe61; a dif- eafe of the fpine. Ifiues were therefore made in the loins j and on the 25th of J Line, I let out two quarts of purulent fluid from beneath the fafcia of the thigh. He had lefs pain in his back after the operation : and though he was teafed with a cough, his ftrength did not fuffer any diminution.— On JulyON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. l8l J-uly 7th, I difcharged from the abfcefs four- teen ounces more, of a turbid brownifh fluid. On the 17th, though the tumour in the thigh was inconfiderable, yet the part firfl: punc- tured was elevated and inflamed. It feemed that the pun6lure in the integuments had healed, while that in the fafcia had not united firmly, but had fuffered the matter to pafs through it, fo as to elevate the fldn. To remedy this, which threatened to lay open the cavity of tlie abfcefs, I was obliged to punftureSt in another place; and eight ounces of fluid were difcharged. The patient was now in much better health than he had been for more than a year, and was able to lift up his thigh without pain. I therefore fet him to exercife the mufcles in the neigh- bourhood of tlie difeafe, thinking that if the exertion did not produce irritation, it might anfwer a good purpofe. With this view, he flood upon the leg of the found fide, and alternately lifted up and let fall the other, until he was fomewhat fatigued. By fre- quent repetition of this exercife, the muf- cles of the difeafed fide acquired confiderable flrength j and in a little time he felt him- N 3 felfi83- on lumbar abscesses. felf (to ufe his own exprefiion) able to go to plough.” The fafcia of the thigh was pun6lured every fortnight for fome time, and afterwards every three weeks, When he had been nearly three months in the hofpital, he became tired of the confinement, and, feeling himfelf Ifrong, was very folidtous to h^ive the abfcefs opened, and fuffered to difcharge itfelf. The difeafe of the fpine made me unwilling to comply with his defire ; and I fent him into , the country for three weeks, that he might afcertain, by the journey, whether he was as jdrong as he fuppofed; thinking that if he bore it without fatigue, it might be of fer- vice to him. At the fame time, I gave him ffridl injunctions not to exert himfelf if his loins or thigh became painful 5 and, in that cafe, to return again by the firfi: con- veyance. It was five weeks, however, be- fore he came back j when I found that the abfcefs had inflamed, and burft, about twenty days after he left town; in confequence of which he became fo ill, that he could not bear removal. He was now in a moft; wretched■CfN LUMBAR ABSCESSES. N 4 difeafe •wretched condition, being fcarcely able to iiurn in bed, from the weak and painful ftate of his loins j his pulfe was rapid, and his ^Ikin hot, and he had occafionally fits of chilli- iiefs fucceeded by fweating. He became con- fiderably better, however, and continued fo for fome time, in confequence of the atten- tion paid to him in the hofpital; but his health again declined j and after feveral re- lapfes, with intervals of temporally amend- ment, he at laft funk, and died at the end of ithree months from his re-admiflion. On opening the body after .death, I found that the abfcefs extended upwards to fome ^ifeafed vertebrae. The difeafed bone, how- ever, did not immediately come into view on lifting up the perko«a«um 5 for the tendinous expanfion, j?vhich covers the bodies of the vertebrae, w^ ftill entire, and formed a kind • of cyft diftended with matter. When this was opened, it was found to contain pus, together with the fragments of three of the bodies of the lumbar vertebree j there being ten or twelve detached pieces of bone lying upon the medulla fpinalis, and furrounded with matter. This was evidently a peculiarON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 184 difeafe of the fpine, which neither cauftics nor any other remedy could alter. It greatly rcfembled that difeafed ftate which fometimes occurs in the carpus and tarfus, in which the fmall bones compoling thefe parts are broken down, and lie confined in a ligamen- tous capfule, furrounded with matter. If the dead portions of the vertebra had not been thus confined, they might have had fome chance of removal j but under the cir- cumftances already noticed, it is mofi: pro- bable that they would remain, and a6f as extraneous bodies, exciting irritation, and increafing the difeafe. CASE XII. *July 1790. John Tucker was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital on account of a Pfoas Abfcefs. His health had been de- clining for more than three years. He had for a confiderable time been an out-patient under the care of Dr. Auflin, who had un- availingly endeavoured to prevent fhe forma- tion of this abfcefs by ilfues made in his back, and by theadminiftration of various medicines. He had fuffered greatly from pain in his loinsON LUMBAR. ABSCESSES. 185 and fever : the abfcefs was very large and had defcended very low on the inhde of the thigh; the integuments covering it were natural; the impulfe of matter into the tumour upon coughing very confiderable. ^His pulfe was feeble and beat eighty-fix in a minute; previous illnefs had exhaufted his conftitution; he had a conftant cough, and undoubtedly much difeafed lungs. — He had little appetite, and was of a coftive habit —• he was of fair complexion, light hair, and blue eyes, and his countenance frequently fluftied: — He was on all thefe accounts as unfit a fubjeft, as can well be fuppofed, to encounter the derangement of conftitution, which muft fucceed to the ordinary evacua- tion of the abfcefs. On Wednefday the 28th of July, I tapped the abfcefs with a fmall hydrocele trochar, and difeharged three pints of pus of good quality, although in a fmall degree more fluid than common. I dreffed the part with confider- able caution. I moiftened the lint which I applied to the orifice <vith tindtura benzoes compofita,LUMBAR ABSCESSjES. s86 Gompbfita, over this I applied fome flicking plafler, which was retained by crofs flips, and afterwards varniflied oveJ* with gum; fome comprefTes of linen were applied over the abfcefs, and gently bound on by a flannel roller. On Thurfday, there was no very percep- tible difference in his health — he had llept and eat as ufual, his tongue was moifl and natural, his pulfe a few flrokes quicker. On Friday, he fi-iid, that he found his loins relieved by the evacuation, that he could per- ceive no difference in his health, and his pulfe was the fame as before the operation. For many days his health remained un- changed, he became he thought a little weaker, , and the frequency of his pulfe had encreafed about four flrokes in a minute. For this little alteration we could readily account, knowing that fome fluids were drained from the circulation into the cavity of the abfcefs, and that fome little exertion of the fyflem would neceffarily enfue. — The abfcefs re- mained without pain, or inflammation, and his ION LUMBAR ABSCESSES. iS/ his conftitution free from fever; his fkin continued in its natural ftate, his appetite was good, his deep found, and his coun- tenance unaltered. Three days after the operation I removed the dreffings from' the pundllired partj it appeared healed; I how- ever carefully renewed the dreffings every third day. Friday, the 13th of Auguft, fixteen days after the firfl difcharge, the tumour having become prominent, I again punflured it, and evacuated its contents. I knew the difcharge would encreafe his weaknefs; yet, if the col- leflion were fuffered to remain it would ffiort- ly diftend the cyft to its former dimendons, and my original plan of treatment would be fruftrated. The quantity of the difcharged fluid was nine ounces; in appearance and chemical properties it much refembled blood. This bloody effufion was probably the confequence of laxity of the exhaling veffels, as there had not been the lead: expreffion of inflammation jn the abfcefs. Before I difcharged the matterON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. i88 matter the fecond time he complained of Ibme pain in his loins; but the following day he faid he was much relieved, and found liimfelf remarkably well. This fecond punc- ture was drefled like the former, and quickly healed. During the time which had elapfed be- tween the fil'd: and fecond difcharge, he had not been confined even to the ward, but often went from the hofpital to fee his friends. This, his cough, the weak date of his health, his difinclination to live in the hofpital, and the obvious impunity with which it was done, induced me to permit. After the fecond evacuation he altogether lived with his friends, promifing to come every week to let me fee the date of his complaint j how- ever, the fecond week when the matter ought the third time to have been evacuated, he failed in his promife. I was now obliged to leave London for fome time, fo that I did not fee the patient again until September the 8th, which was four weeks and five days from the former evacuation; he had re- fofed to have the matter let out during my abfence.ON lumbar abscessed. i8g abfence. I now difcharged in like manner ten ounces of lymphatic exhalation, rather dark coloured and turbid, as if mixed with true pus. The man, during the laft week, had complained of pain in his loins and in his knee, both of which were relieved as ufual by the operation. Before the abfcefs was firft opened the im- pulfe of matter from the loins, on coughing, was extremely forcible, but was now not at all perceptible. It appears to me that a very confiderable advantage is derived from this mode of treating thefe complaints. What- ever fecretion is made in the abfcefs of the loins, will, by its gravity, defeend into the fpace left by the feceded fafeia of the thigh. The abfcefs of the loins being left perfcdtly free from diftention will moft probably con- tra6l to very little dimenfions, if it be not perfedlly abolifhed. Hence in the fubfe- quent treatment of thefe complaints you have only to attend to the difunited fafeia j whilft the cavity in the loins fcarcely deferves notice. September190 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES.' I September 22d, a fortnight after the former evacuation, I difcharged four ounces of fimilar ferous fluid mixed with pus. Dur- ing its evacuation, which was very fpeedy, I had applied my fingers beneath Poupart’s ligament, as if to obftrudt the defcent of any matter from the loins. I then defired the man to cough, but no matter defcended, and the collection. appeared to me entirely con- fined to the thigh. I found fome difficulty in introducing a trochar, when the abfcefs contained fo little fluid. This was remedied by firfl: introduc- ing a lancet through the fafcia, and then conveying the trochar through the aperture made by the lancet. Thus after difcharging the matter four times, the complaint was reduced from a lumbar abfcefs, containing three pints, to a fmall colle6lion of matter beneath the fafcia, containing four ounces.—What communi- cation this had with the loins, and what was the flate of parts there, cannot be deter- mined. 15ON LUMJJ4R AiysCfiSSE?, 19? mined. To appearance there wa? : o collec- tion. If I had now immediately opened the abfcefs, the containing cyfl being fmall, the inflammation probably would not have been confiderable. But the flate of the m.an’s health induced me for a fliort time to defer this final attempt, this radical cure, as I may exprefs it, and to be contented with only eva- cuating the matter when collecled, without fuffering the colle6lion to increafe the fize of the cyfl:. It might be expedled, by repeating the evacuation, that the cavity would dimi- nifh to its total abolition. This would j^j'o- bably happen were the abfcefs in the cellular fubftance j but the inelaftic fafcia cannot con- tra6l, and the fubjacent mufcles cannot be elevated, fo that the effufed matter,^ though very fmall in quantity, would Bill keep them difunited. > * • I had let out four ounces of matter once in O(Bober, and on the 5th of November I opened the abfcefs by an incifion about an inch and a half in length at the lower part. I introduced my finger beneath the fafcia as high as Poupart’s ligament, I defired the patientON LUMBAIV ABSCESSES. 19 s patient to cough, but no matter defcended from the loins, neither could I afcertain any communication. The extent of the detach- ed fafeia was about four inches and a half in length, and nearly four in breadth. The cyft inflamed after opening. The hardnefs and quantity of the difeharge encreafed for four days, and then gradually fubfided. His thigh was ftiff and fore, fo that he could not eafily move it, but he had no particular pain in his loins — his pulfe did not vary — his tongue was not furred — his fleep was not inter- rupted — nor could any derangement of his health be perceived. Granulations grew from the edge of the incifion, and the opening nearly clofed and afforded fcarcely any difeharge. — Yet, on in- troducing a probe through the orifice, I found that the fafeia remained difunited. With a view to produce an union, by exciting in- flammation, I introduced a feton from this lower orifice to the upper part of the eyff. The fafeia again inflamed, indurated, and united, only the track of the feton was un- clofedj and this by the injeaion of fomelumbar abscesses. *93 Tpirlt and water, was alfo foon induced to fill lip. Indifcourfmg with the patient, after open- ing the abfcefs, refpe6Hng his health, he faid, he was ten times better than before it was opened j that until this time he had always been fubjefl to fits of pain, and to a ftate of weaknefs and faintnefs which he could not defcribe. After the perfe61: clofure of the abfcefs, he could extend and bend his thigh with free- dom and eafe j he could alfo readily put his foot upon a chair fct before him. This it would have been impoflible for him to have done during the formation or continu- ance of the abfcefs. This freedom of a6lion the pfoas mufcle indicated confiderable foundnefs of it, and of the contiguous parts. He {fill, however, complained of much rheu- matic pain in his hips, and fometimes in his loins j and as I fuppofcd his conftitution might be affe6ted by the fupprefiion of a long-continued purulent difcharge, and, might attempt for its relief the formation of a new abfcefs, I inferted two fetons in the integuments of the loins, with a view VOL IV. o ©f o154 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES’. of preventing inflammation of the internal parts. They did not, however, relieve his pains; he complained much of their inconvenience, and as he defigned to go into the country, they were difcontinued. I faw him about a year afterwards — no alteration had taken place in the thigh, nor no fixed pain had attacked the loins, but he was flill much teazed with unfettled rheumatic pains.. The preceding cafe was very unfavourable both from the patient’s conftitution and from ^ the degree of the difeafe. Yet, by foui^ times difcharging the matter, which was not at- tended with much more pain than bleeding, it was reduced from a lumbar abfcefs, con- taining three pints, to a fmall colledlion be- neath the fafcia of the thigh, containing four ounces, and without any evident communis cation with the loins. Each time, inftead of fuffering inconvenience, he experienced relief; he had no fever, neither was he reflrained from his ufual occupations. , The195 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. The final opening might have been fooner made, but as this was the firft cafe in which I had purfued this pradlice, I was uncertain, of the event and irrefolutely protradlcd it for two months, in expedlation of amendment of his health. When it was opened no percep- tible fever followed, and it fliortly got well by the treatment which I have related. CASE XIII. Ifaac Dean, thirty-feven years of age, had come from Hampfliire to London, to obtain advice for a Pfoas Abfcefs. He was admitted into the hofpital under the care of the late Mr. Pitts. The account which he gave of himfelf was, that his bufinefs had obliged him to be much on horfeback j that he had formerly, when riding, bruifed his left teftis, which accident had occafioned an incurable difeafe of that gland j he therefore had fuf* fered its removal about two years fince in fome county hofpital. Since that time he , had frequently fuffered much pain in his loins; about eight months before his admif- fioji into the hofpital he had caught cold: the pain in his loins then became more violent and o 21^6 OK LUMBAR ABSCESSES. and conflant, and much impeded the motions of his left thigh. About three months after this attack of fevere pain, he perceived a tumour in the upper part of his thigh, which had gradually increafed until the time of his admifiion into the hofpital. Since the ap- pearance of the tumour, the pain in the loins had much abated. The matter now defcended about four inches beneath Poupart’s liga- ment; and it received a forcible impulfe when the man coughed. The fafcia of the thigh at this part was very pro- minent, and the fkin covering it was more red than the reft of the integuments. The patient’s health was not unfavour- able; his pulfe was rather ftrong, beating feventy-fix in a minute, his tongue rather pale, his hair and eyes dark. Monday, 3d of Odlober, 1790, by Mr. Pitt’s defire I introduced a trochar into the lower part of the tumour, and gave dif- charge to twenty-four ounces of pus, mode- rately tenacious, and containing fome flakes of firmer matter: I cautioufly clofed the orifice,OH LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 197 orifice, as in the former cafe, applied a comprefs, and bound it moderately tight with a roller. I could not in this cafe perceive any alte- ration in the man’s health deferving to be recorded, except that the pulfe was a little quickened: he eat and flept as ufual. I carefully took off the fticking-plafter at the end of three days, and renewed a limilar drefiing. On Thurfday, 13th of Oftober, the abfeefs was now again prominent, and the pun6lure made by the trochar feemed flightly inflamed. As I concluded the diflcntion of the fafeia caufed this inflammation, and fup- pofing that if the prefTure of the matter from beneath was fuffered to continue, it might occafion it to ulcerate, I determined to pre- vent this cffe6l by again evacuating the mat- ter. This I accomplifhed by pafling a trochar into the lower part of the abfeefs, at fome diftance from the former opening; and by this means difeharged between eight and nine ounces of pus, thinner and rather darker co- loured than the former, but not tinged with o 3 blood ,I<)8 , ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. blood as in the preceding cafe. I now care- fully dreffed both orifices, and again applied a bandage. . I cautioufly removed the drelTings, at the end of three days j the fecond punfture had healed, and the firft had loft its difpofition to inflame. After having drelTed the punctured parts, and applied the bandage; I defired him to moiften it with aq. faturn. which I thought by keeping the Ikin cool, would pre- vent its difpofition to inflame. The man fuffered no alteration in his health from this fecond evacuation. On the 25th, at the end of a fortnight, the tumour being again pro- minent, I introduced a lancet into the fafeia, and, through the orifice thus made, the trochar, which difeharged fix ounces of turbid ferous fluid, and I purfued the fame fubfequent mode of treatment. After another fortnight had elapfed the tu- mour was much lefs prominent than before, and there appeared a degree of irritation in the Ikin. The pun61:ures fliewed a difpofition to inflame. I now defired the man to cough, butON LUM3AR ABSCESSES. *99 o 4 hered tut could difcover no impulfe of matter from the loins. This I had not before done, left the exertion fhould affe6t the punctures, which were not fo firmly healed as in the former cafe. As the patient had not fuffered much from difcharge, as his health feemed fully capable of fuftaining the effects arifing from opening the abfcefs, as it was not pro- bable that its dimenfions could fuffer further diminution by delay, on Friday the 23d of November, I opened the cavity by an incifion of about an inch in length, at the lower part^ and immediately pafied a feton thi’ough to the upper part, with a view to infure the union of the fafcia. An ufual degree of inflammation of the fafcia .and ftiffnefs of the affected limb fol- lowed, but he complained of no particular pain in his loins further than general ftiff- nefs. The flight fever which accompanied feemed rather inflammatory than hedlical, his pulfe became a little quicker and harder, and his tongue (lightly furred. Thefe fymptoms gradually abated, and at the expiration of three weeks the fafcia appeared to have ad-300 ON .LUMBAR ABSCBSSEJ, hercd firmly to the fubjacent parts: I there^. fore withdrew the feton. As he now found his health tolerably good, and being, as he thought, recovered from what he confidered as a dangerous com- plaint, and imagining that he was made weaker by flaying in the hofpital, he went into the country, promifing to inform me if any change happened; but I have not fince heard of him. CASE XIV. February, 1791. James Leaver is in the 21 fl year of his age, has light brown hair, blue eyes, dilated pupils, pale countenance, frequently flufhed, and is apparently of an irritable conftitution. About nine months ago he was affe61:ed with a pain in his loins when he moved, which foon became very fevere, even when he was at refl. Tliis pain was accompanied with fever. Four months afterwards he perceived a fmall fwelling in the upper part of his right thigh, which has fince gradually mcreafed, and has now de- fended nearly to the middle of the thigh: heON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 201 he remarked, that he never had the leaft pain in the part where the tumour was formed,^ After the appearance of this fwelling, he no longer experienced the fame degree of unea- finefs in his loins; and fhortly after, he ac- quired the power of lifting up his right thigh, which he had for fome time loft. For four months previoufly to his admifi- fion into the hofpital, he had regularly pro- fufe night fweats, which began about twelve o’clock, but did not prevent his fleeping; when he awoke he found his cloaths very wet, and himfelf very chilly; he had, however, ^n appetite for his breakfaft. On the 5th of February, Sir James Earle introduced a trochar into tlie moft prominent part of the tumour: between two and three pints of healthy matter was evacuated, the wound was immediately clofed, and lint and adhefive plafter were applied. The night fucceeding the operation he dept little, but was free from perfpiration. On each fuc- ceeding night he flept as ufual, but had not in the lealt degree thofe fweats which had beenE02 ON LUMB'AR ABSCESSES. been conftant until the difcharge of the matter. On the 8th of February, he faid he found himfelf no worfe for the operation, he was free from night fweats and flept foundly. His appetite was perfectly good, his bowels unaffedled, and his tongue moifi; and florid. His pulfe, before the operation, was ninety, and for fifteen days afterwards it varied be- tween that and a hundred. February jyth, ten days after the evacuation, his night fweats returned, although in a lefs degree than formerly. February 26th, three weeks after thefirfl; difcharge, the tumour had now become nearly of its original fizej the integuments were much diftended j the part pundtured by the trochar had for three days appeared inflamed; and on the tumour being now comprefled, the cicatrix gave way, and the contained matter oozed from the orifice. The trochar was again introduced through the former orifice, and eight ounces of brownifh matter difeharged. The wound was carefully drelTed,<jai iLUMi»AR Ab&C£t£>E6, ao3 lu lioptfc tiiat as the diftention taken it might dole. After tlie fecond evacuation, the night fweats again ceafed; he idd, he was rather weaker, but no othei alteration in his bt'alth was per- ceived. On the ad of March, while in the a6t of coughiiig, die iinpeifcdly healed wound made by die tiociiar gave way. Very Uttle pus was difeharged, but as it was irapoflible to lital this ulcerated opening, and as die con- tinuity of the cyft was now deftroyed, the mode of treatment hitherto purfued was frus- trated. M uch inflammation of the cyft im- mediately took place, and the conftitudon be- came greatly affected. 'I he next day, if the finger flighdy comprefied the abfeefs, it gave him great pain j but before the cavity of the abfeefs became expofed, the part was per- feedy indolent. When prefiure was em- ployed, a foetid, frothy matter iffued from the ulcerated orifice. Tlie cyft, however, was emptied, and, except w'hen preffed, there was no dijfcharge. Such were the appear- ances of the part. The general diftiybance of304 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, of the conftitiition was alfo very great j his countenance exhibited ftrong expreflions of alarm j if any one approached him he ftarted, and when any one touched him he trembled. His pulfe beat from 130 to 140 in a minute— for two days his bowels were difordered— however, the inflammation of the cyft gra- dually abated, and in like manner the confli- tLitional derangement fubfided. At the end of about eight days, he was much amended, and in about fix weeks the abfeefs appeared nearly well, and his conflitution relieved from febrile indifpofition. In this cafe it is clear, that the fecond dif^ charge of matter was too long delayed, and to me it appears equally evident that the pa- tient derived much advantage from the mode of treatment which had been purfued j for by it the complaint was reduced from a large abfeefs, containing nearly three pints, to one which held lefs than eight ounces. Yet, even in this diminifhed ftate, great derange- ment of the conflitution followed the expq- fure of the cavity of the abfeefs: indeed, I have little doubt, if the abfeefs had been openedON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 305 opened whilft it retained its original dimen- fions, but that the patient would have fallen a vi6lim to the more extenfive inflammation, and more violent fever, which would then have taken place. CASE XV. Elizabeth Ridley, aged fifty-five, had, for one year and a half before her admiffion into the hofpital, fuffered much from bad health; fhe then had a fevere cough, accompanied with much fever. About ten months be- fore fhe was admitted into the hofpital, file had a very acute pain in her loins, which abated, in fome degree, ten weeks after its firft attack j at that time fhe obferved a tu- mour in her groin, which had gradually en- creafed in fize. The pain had been conti- nual, though at intervals it fuffered confider- able abatement: the veins on the fore part of the thigh had become varicous and the leg eedematous. The tumour was of a circular form, about four inches in diameter.—It had much protruded the fafcia, and matter was violently impelled into it on coughing She now complained of occafional pain of her2o6 on lumbar abscesses. her ftomach, of failure of appetite, and a c§i^ive ftate of her bowels; her pulfe was flow and feeble, her tongue,pale, and her health confiderably beneath the natural ftand- ard. On the 8th of November, I pun6lured the lower part of the tumour with a lancet, car- rying it obliquely about half an inch between, the fkin and the fafcia, and difcharged eleven ounces of good pus, but did not empty the abfcefs. The orifice of the fkin arid cyfl did not then correfpond, and on coughing there was flill perceived a confiderable impulfe of matter from the cavity in the loins.—I was unwilling to irritate the cyfl: by the introduc- tion of any inflrument to feparate the lips of the wound, therefore I clofed the orifice with flicking plaifler, and every thing remained quiet till the third day, when, by a fit of coughing, the orifice was burfl open and matter oozed from beneath the plafler. If I fuffered it to remain open, my original plan of treatment would be fruflrated. I there- foor refolved to let out the collected matter, left diftention of the fafcia and integuments fliouldON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 20^ fhould prevent the wound from healing. I again introduced the lancet through the fame orifice, and wounded it fo as to make it bleed and give a difcharge to five ounces of- pus ; the abfeefs, however, did not even now appear . to be completely emptied. The woman fuffered no evident alteration in her health, but became much eafier with refpeft to her loins. The varicofe veins and the oedema of the leg now no longer ap- peared. Thefe fymptoms, doubtlefs, origi- nated from the preflure in the loins, occa- fioned by matter, of which it was very evident there was a large colledHon. On the 18th, the tumour was again punc- tured and eight ounces of fluid evacuated. The matter before had been incompletely dil- charged; now I believe the tumour was en- tirely emptied. This laft difeharged matter was perfedlly inodorous and the thigh unin- flamed. I made this aperture at the fide of the tumour with the edges of the lancet held upwards and downwards, and not tranfverfely as the former openings had been made. This I did20S ON LUMBAR AB3CESSBS. 12 dirainiflied, I did that the efforts employed in coughing might have lefs effedl: in impelling the matter through the orifice, which foon healed. In the following week fhe complained that file was reftlefs and could not fleep, neither had file her ufual degree of appetite; her pulfe, however, was not quickened, nor did any other figns of conftitutional indifpofition appear. No matter was now colledted be- neath the falcia, and after waiting another Week without any apparent colledtion being made, on the 25th of November I intro- duced a lancet through the fafeia of the thigh, with a defign to leave the cavity of the abffefs permanently open, -I did not per- ceive any matter iffue from the opening. As the integuments covering the fafeia were thickened and fliewed fome difpofition to inflame, I diredled the aqua plumbi ace- tati to be applied to them. On the fol- lowing day fome matter flowed through the orifice. The patient fuppofed, if col- ledted, it might be a table fpoonful j nearly the fame quantity continued to difeharge for about a fortnight, and afterwards it graduallyON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 2©9 diminifhed, and the wound healed. She was not afFefted by fever in confequence of this laft opening, and feemed to fujffer very little inconvenience with refpe6l to her health. She, however, complained much of pains refembling thofe of the rheumatifm, which affe6led principally her hips, though fome- times they attacked her loins; for thefe pains fhe was placed under the care of the phyli- cian, and as her conftitution was languid, fhe ’ was recommended to continue the medicines preferibed for her as an out-patient. In this cafe one circumflance appeared to me curious; after I had twice difeharged the contents of the abfeefs, no farther cohesion of matter took place. Yet not becaufe the cavity of the abfeefs was abolidied, but be- caufe from fome little indifpofition of the conftitution the fecretion into that cavity was for a time fufpended. This, however, was rather an advantageous circumftance, for as the cyft was empty, the contradlion of the fides was unoppofed. .TPL. IV. CASEON LUMBAR ABSCESSE'S. i2lo CASE XVII. Charles White, thirty-fix years of age> and not unhealthy, had a lumbar abfcefs„ which prefented beneath the fafcia of the thigh, and which there was no reafon to fnppofe conne6led with any difeafe of the fpine. From this abfcefs I difcharged, by punclure, twenty-four ounces of healthy pus, and healed the orifice. The patient fuffered fome weaknefs and derangement of health; but they were not confiderable. The operation was repeated every fortnight 5 and, by the fifth time of performing it, the quan- tity had decreafed to four ounces. At the end of another fortnight, I made the open- ing to difcharge the matter, larger than com- mon, and did not attempt to unite it, but di- re61:ed a poultice to be applied to the thigh, and the patient to be kept in bed. No perceptible derangement in his health took place in confequence of this. The lips of the wound granulated, which, I think, is always a good fign the fafcia feemed to ad- here to the parts beneath; and in the courfe of a rnonth he was thought well enough to leavePN LUMBAR ABSCESSES. , 211 leave the horpital, although there was ftill feme matter difeharged from the wound. In a few weeks more, the part was entirely healed j nor had he afterwards any return of the complaint. CASE XVIII. William Hankes, when about twenty-eight years of age, had a colle fUon of matter formed in liis loins, which defeended beneath Pou- part’s ligament, and elevated the fafeia of the thigh. The formation of this matter had not been attended with pain; neither were the motions of the thigh impeded dur- ing its colleflion. The elevated portion of the fafeia was about three inches in length, and two in breadth; and the impulfe com- municated to it from the loins, on coughing, was diftinft, though not very forcible.— I pundlured the abfeefs, and difeharged twelve ounces of pus, in which there were fome flakes of coagulum. The wound healed fpeedily, and the patient not only fuffered no inconvenience, but even found himfelf better than before the operation. —. After three weeks’ time, the matter which was collected p 2 gave212 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES- gave fo little prominence to the fafcia, that, when I pun6lured it, I was apprehenfive of injuring the fubjacent parts; and not more than between five and fix ounces of pus flowed from the orifice on this occafion.— As \ the quantity of matter contained in the abfcefs at firfl: was fmall when compared with that in many other cafes which terminated well, as the patient alfo was young, and apparently capable of fuftaining the degree of irrita- tion likely to enfue, I thought there was no great rilk in leaving the orifice unclofed. Accordingly, a poultice was applied over the part} and I hoped that, by thus endeavour- ing as much as poflible to leflen inflammation about tlie wound, I might prevent any con- fiderable degree of it from taking place in the cyft. For fome time the fafcia felt fore, and was painful when the integuments were prefled j but this tendernefs abated in about ten days j the difcharge alfo leffened, and there appeared ground to hope that the patient would foon get well. He was now attacked with pain in his loins, accompanied by fever: the difcharge alfo increafed, and had a foetid fmell. Thefe fymptoms, however, gjadually 10 abated.ON LUMBAR. ABSCESSES. 213 abated, but left the patient greatly reduced in ftrcngth. After a fliort interval, he again experienced a fimilar relapfe and recovery, by which his weaknefs was ftill farther increafed. He had been occafionally troubled with cough, which now became very conftant, but with- out any expectoration 3 and I obferved that he drew in very little air when he infpired.— As the abfeefs difeharged largely, and the ftrength of his conftitution was rather de- clining, I made a large ilTue in the integu- ments of his loins, w^ith a view to leHen the internal difeafe. This feemed to be of great fervice; for the pain of his loins went off, and the difeharge from the abfeefs abated gradually, and at laft became inconfiderable. Still, however, he did not recover his health; and the country air was now recommended by Dr. Latham, who had preferibed for him, during his illnefs, thofe medicines which his diforder feemed to require. He accordingly left the hofpital, and, at the end of ten months, returned to town ; when the wound in his thigh ftill continued to difeharge a fmall quantity of matter. Afterwards, a thickening of the integuments on the front 3 of214 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES.' of the thigh took place; and two or three fmall ulcers formed there, which did not readily heal, hut were fometimes in a better and fometimes in a worfe ftate. — I faw him occafionally, for two years, during which time he had tried the effedt of fea-bathing. His health, however, was not good, though it did not appear to me to fuffer from the remains of the abfcefs, which neither occa- fioned pain, nor hindered his walking. At laft, his ftrength declining, he was again admitted into the hofpital, under Dr. La* tham’s care. He was now much troubled with cough, and hedliic fever j and, under the fafcia of the other thigh, oppofite to the dorfum of the ilium,' a frefh abfcefs ap- peared, which, however had no communi-. cation with the abdomen. The powers of his conllitution wei'e now evidently broken, and he gradually funk, and died. Being greatly hurried during the only opportunity I had of infpefting the body, my examination of it was very curfory. -I can, therefore, only fay that both lungs wer6 irre- gularly and generally indurated 3 that the ca-ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, 215 \'ity of the original abfcefs flill remained opened, bat was contradted into a narrow fiflula leading from the thigh to the middle of the pfoas mufcle. There was another large abfcefs on the oppofite pfoas mufcle, which had not yet defcended to the thigh, where, as has been already mentioned, there was alfo an abfcefs of confiderable magni- tude, but unconnedled with this in the loins. The lumbar vertebrae were perfedtly found. That the death of this man was not owing to the original abfcefs in the loins, is to me very evident. That abfcefs did, indeed, for a confiderable time, -greatly difturb his con- flitution j but it afterwards became indolent, and acquired a ftate incapable of exciting irritation. CASE XIX. Having unfortunately left the minutes which I took of the next cafe that occurred in the hofpital, I can only give fuch a gene- ral account of it as my memory fupplies. The fubjedf of it, Doods King, who was un- ^ 42i6 on lumbar abscesses. der the care of Mr. Blicke, was about thirty years of age, and of a very fickly afpe6t» The abfcefs prefented beneath Poupart’s liga ment j it contained at firft about 20 ounces -of curdly matter, and was pundtured four times, with the ufual progrefllve redudfion in the quantity of matter difcharged; but before the fifth time of opening, one of the pundfured places ulcerated. There was in- deed, from the beginning, in this cafe, a great difpofition in the flcin to inflame and ulcerate, and it was with difficulty I could heal the orifices made to let the matter out. As foon as the cavity had thus become open, a poultice was applied to the part, and con- finement to bed ffridlly enjoined. The patient became fomewhat weaker, but no fever enfued. I did not fuffer him to go about, however, for a long time, left the motion of the parts fhould induce inflammation. The abfcefs at laft became perfe6fly indolent itfelf, and un-irritating to the conftitution ; but it did not fhew much difpofition to heal. —• He was difcharged in this ftate, and promifed to apply again if his complaint became trouble- fome. I faw him about a month after his difmiflion,217 ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. difiniflion, when he mentioned a defign of going into the country j fince which I have not heard of him. CASE XX. Catharine Vallance, nineteen years old, of a healthy appearance, but having a confider- able inclination of her body forwards, from a former difeafe of the dorfal vertebrae, had, for twelve months before I firft faw her, laboured under fevere pain of her loins, ac- companied with fever. There was at that time a large lumbar abfeefs, tl:^e matter of which had defeended to the upper part of the thigh, where it diftended the integuments, fo as to render them prominent and thin. A furgeon pricked this tumour with a lancet, - and let out more than a pint of very healthy pus; by which the bulk of the fwclling was fcarcely diminifhed : but as no more matter would flow, a piece of fticking-plafter was applied over the orifice. Four days after- wards, another furgeon, obferving that the integuments were inflamed, and the punc- tured part much difpofed to ulcerate, made anotherON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, another aperture, at fome diftance from the former, and difchargcd three pints of good pus; which completely emptied the cavity. The laft pundiire being attentively clofed, healed readily ; and the firft loft its difpoft- tion to ulcerate. The young woman con- tinued perfectly in health for ten days, when fome little diftention of the abfcefs again occurring, the firft pun6fure ulcerated j in confequence of which the colle6led matter made its way out, and left a permanent opening into the cavity. Confiderable fever now came on, the patient’s pulfe was rapid, her tongue white, and her Ikin hot and dry ^ but thefe fymptoms abated after a fhort time, and file again recovered her former ftate of health; the abfcefs not falling into any fecondary ftate of difeafe after the inflam- mation went off; not did any he£tic fever take place after the firft derangement of the conftitution had fubfided. Another abfcefs now prefented itfelf, in the fame fituation, on the oppofite fide. As foon as this had acquired fiiflicient prominence to give fecurity to the parts beneath, it was punctured;ON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 219 punctured; twelve ounces of healthy pus were let out, and the orifice was clofed. When the matter collefted again, the wound, made to difcharge it, was fuffered to remain open. The inflammation which took place in the cyfl; in cohfequence of this, was very flight, and hardly affe^fed the confliitution: the parts foon became indolent, difcharging but little matter, and both the abfcefles healed gradually. It is now three years fince that cafe oc- curred; and I have lately feen tlie patient, who has experienced no inconvenience front the complaint fince that period. CASE XXI. A young woman had a lumbar abfcefs pre- fenting in the upper part-of the thigh, from which a furgeon difcharged, by pundfure, nearly a quart of matter, and healed the opening. At the expiration of a fortnight, a fecond pun6lure was made, and twelve ounces of matter let out. The lafl: orifieg was clofed like the firft, but after a few days 14 itON LUMBAR ABSCESSES, 220 it ulcerated, and the cavity of tlie abfcefs be- came expofed. The patient now growing very ill, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hofpital. Her pulfe was weak, but not deficient in ftrength; her tongue white, and her ficin hot and djy: the difcharge from the abfcefs was not great, but the pain of her loins was very fevere. A large poultice was applied to the thigh ; and the common faline mixture, with fmall dofes of antimonials, was given. In the courfe of a week, a con- fiderable change took place j her pulfe, though flill quick, was rather feeble} her tongue moift, and not furred } and (he had frequent perfpirations without any evident caufe: the pain in her loins abated confiderably, and the difcharge from the abfcefs became copious, thin, and foetid. She now began to take the Peruvian bark, and in the fpace of a month gradually recovered from this ftate of debility. Having acquired ftrength enough to fit up, and to walk a little about the ward, file one day imprudently went into the air, and w'alked until file was much fatigued. *The confequences of this were, a return of nr'iii in her loins} with quicknefs and hardnefsON LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 221 hardnefs of her pulfe, white tongue, and hot and dry (kin. As the pain and fever went off, they were fucceeded by an increafed dif- charge from the abfcefs, and irregular per- fplrations, which gradually abating, the ab- fcefs at length became indolent, and no longer affedled the conftitution. Warned by her former experience, fhe now took exercife very cautioufly; and when die found die could bear motion without excitino; irritation in the abfcefs, die went into the country, where die regained her health; the abfcefs healed, and die has fmee continued perfedbly well. When a permanent opening is made in a lumbar abfcefs, the part generally falls into a morbid ftate, and this is accompanied by a fympathetic affedtion of the conftitution, cor- refponding in its nature with the local com- plaint. In the firfl of the two cafes jud: now related, both the local and conftitutional dif- eafe were of a more purely indammatory kind, than in any other that I had ever feen; nor was it fucceeded by that ill-conditioned ftate of the fore, accompanied with a thin feetid difeharge.ON LUMBAR ABSCESSESi tlifcharge, and hedlic fymptoms, which fo qiiently occur in this diforder. In the fecond cafe, as the patient’s general health was tolera- bly good, the difeafe in the beginning ap- proached to the nature of common inflamma- tion, then gradually acquired the ufual flate of thefe abfcefles, but afterwards became in- dolent ; the fympathetic affe6lion of the con- ftitution exa6lly correfponded to the flate of the abfcefs. At firfl the fever was inflam- matory, then hedlicalj and when the local complaint became indolent, the general flate of the patient’s health was no longer affeded. Thefe circumflances flill more flrongly ap- peared after the accidental re-excitement of the inflammatory fymptoms. In order further to confirm the foregoing opinions, I may add; that I have known a confiderable fpace of time elapfe, betv/een the firfl burfling of a lumbar abfcefs and its afliim- ing that morbid flate which is fo peculiar to thofe difeafes, and which produces a corre- ^onding affedion of the fyflem in general. 5 I N I S Strahan and Pi-efton, J’xintcrs-Strect, ijpnd<;n«