, INTRODUCTORY LECTURE TO A COURSE 01 STJRaERY, TO THE MEDICAL CLASS OF GENEVA COLLEGE. BY PROFESSOR BRYAN. ON THE MFE AND CHAEACTER OP BARHON LARREY. Delivered Decemljer 6th, im. GENEVA, N. Y.: PRINTED BY I. & 8. H. PARKER. 1848.CORRESPONDENCE. Geneva Medical Colleoe. James Bryan, M. D. Dear Sir: At a meeting of the Medical Class of Geneva College, on Wednesday evening, Dec. 6th, 1848, the undersigned were ap- pointed a Committee to solicit a copy of your beautiful and instructive Ad- dress for publication. Agreeable with our instructions, we now respectfully request a copy of your Introductory, which we sincerely trust will not be refused. f With sentiments of high esteem, We remain, yours, &c., E. P. LANGWORTHY,^ A. A. BARROWS, R. P. BROWN, 1 S. WEED, ^ C. PATCHIN, E. D. CONE, Committee. Geneva, Dec. 7th, 1848. Gentlemen: Your polite note of last evening is before me. Allow me to thank (through you) the Class of Geneva Medical College, for the value they are pleased to place upon my "introductory," and assure them that in acceding to their request, (which I do very cheerfully) for their sakes, I wish it were much better. Such as it is, it is at your disposal. Very truly and Respectfully yours, JAMES BRYAN. Mr. E. P. Lanowokthy, et al.. Committee.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Gextlemen: There is perhaps no principle better established than that which teaches the superiority of example over precept. The practical illustration of intellectual power as exhibited in the life of a Frank- lin, a Newton, or a La Place, compares only with the development of moral power as displayed in the biography of a Howard, a Paul, or a Washington. In other words, we appreciate much better the principles of science and of morals, when seen in the living, think- ing man, than when taught in abstruse problems or didactic dis- courses. This remark is borne out by the absorbing interest felt in theatrical and pantomimic displays, even when the representa- tion is one of mere fiction. It is the origin of that aphorism of Horace, which says— Segniaa irritant animos, demlssa per aurem, Quatn qua; suut ocalis subjecta fidelibus, etquae Ipse sibi tradit spectator. In obedience to this law of our nature—for the purpose of illustra- ting some of the practical principles of our profession, and of hold- ing up to the young and ambitious student a name and a character worthy of his imitation—I have selected as the subject of the fol- lowing remarks, the life and peculiarties of Bakron Larrey. No man, perhaps, during the last or any other century, enjoyed greater advantages for the observation and practice of surgery and medicine, under so many and varied circumstances, as did the medical friend and devoted follower of Napoleon ; and no man, I venture to affirm, has made better use of his opportunities. It is4 the peculiarity of genius to detect its similitude in others, and we all know that tho " eagle eye" of Napoleon saw at a glance the superior talents of even the lowest soldier about him. It had also the higher power of fascinating and drawing around him every thing liiie brilliancy in intellectual capacity. If there ever was a mental magnet which irresistibly attracted to itself the brighter spirits among men, it was the gigantic mind of the child of Destiny. Larrey was not one of the least brilliant of that splendid galaxy which revolved around Napoleon Bonaparte. Born of respectable parents, Larrey rose from a simple student of medicine to be the friend and councillor of Kings and Emperors, and to practice his profession with honor and renown in the four quarters of the globe. Military Surgery was more particularly benefitted by his untir- ing genius; but like Hippocrates, Sydenham, Rush, Pare, and all other great minds in our profession, nothing that affected the health, physically, intellectually or morally, of his fellow man, escaped his observation, or was considered beneath his persevering attention. Taking in fact the motto of Terence, where he says— Homo sum: huiiiani nihil me alienum puto.—Haul. 11-24. Hence we find him in the midst of war and bloodshed, examining the chemical composition of the wines of Spain, whose deleterious ingredients had poisoned the soldiers and produced the colic of Madrid; in Poland investigating the character and causes of the national disease termed the Plica Polonica; in Egypt, the Plague, the climate, the water, «fec. &c.; in Italy, the epidemic diseases of cattle, which destroyed whole hecatombs of useful animals, and produced disease and famine among the inhabitants. These and many other subjects were made special objects of investigation, which resulted in the forms of memoirs and bulletins, in sound ad- vice and Avise directions to the suffering citizens of these different countries. It is not only, however, for these reasons that I have selected him as the subject of my remarks on this occasion. His duties as Surgeon-in-Chief were peculiarly practical, for with him there was no time to speculate—hence in this portion of his profession we find him eminently distinguished. His Ambulances, which ena-5 bled him to approach the very cannon's mouth and rescue the dy- ing soldier under the very fire of the enemy, instead of waiting twenty-four or thirty-six hours, when life would have been lost by fatal ha^niniorrhage. His superior mode of dressing wounds on the field of battle, and thus protecting the soldier from the dangers attending undressed wounds. His invention of improved instru- ments for the taking up of arteries, and of many other improve- ments in the theory and practice of Surgery, entitle him to a notice at our hands. One more reason why I have selected Larrey as the subject of my introductory lecture. Our country has been and will probably again be at war. The fame of Palo Alto, Resaca de la Palma, Monterey and Buena Vista—with that of Vera Cruz, Chapultepec, Cherubusco and Mexico—are now chronicled with the battles of New Orleans, Georgetown, Princeton and Bunker Hill. The storj' of our prowess has swept across the broad Atlan- tic, and Europe is forced to acknowledge our equality to her in the stern virtues of war. This being the case, America calls upon the medical profession to sustain in science her renown in arms. She calls upon us as physicians to fly to the rescue, and show the world by our skill and humanity, that medicine in our land of free insti- tutions keeps pace with the progress of the age. Some of those who hear me, may and probably will be called to serve their country, by binding up the wounds of her soldiers, and saving from an untimely faie the brave defenders of her glory. Let your knowledge and acquirements be fully equal to the task— let the alumni of Geneva Medical College not be wanting in the hour of trial: but let them stand on the field of battle, like Miner- va when she sprang from the head of Jove, " armed at all points." About the age of thirteen, (says Barron Larrey in his memoirs,) I left Beaudean near Bagneres, Adour, Upper Pyrennes, the place of my nativity, to repair to Toulouse with a view of studying physic under the direction of my uncle, Alexis Larrey, first Surgeon and Physician to the General Hospital of that city, and corresponding associate of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris. After hav- ing finished my elementary studies in the College Esquile, and in the schools of medicine and surgery of Toulouse, I determined to6 visit the University in order to acquire that Itnowledge which is essential to the profession which I had embraced. I arrived at the metropolis in August, 1787, a few days after the celebrated Louis, perpetual Secretary of the Academy, had an- nounced that a public examination would be held for the selection of a certain number of auxiliary surgeons for the navy, for the de- partment of Brest. This proposition was so consonant with my inclinatians for travelling, that although I might be obliged to aban- don my original design, I did not hesitate to become" a candidate, and had the good fortune to obtain one of the proposed appoint- ments. I immediately set out for Brest, where, after further ex- amination, I was to receive my rank. The officer of the auxiliary medical staff of the navy also accompanied me. I was appointed chief surgeon of a King's vessel at the age of 21 years, contrary to custom, as I had never before been in one. Soon after, I em- barked as first surgeon on board the frigate Vigilante, commanded by the Chevalier Sagues de Tours. While waiting for the period of our departure, I passed the winter in giving lectures on Anato- my and Surgery to the young students. I visited the prison of the galley-slaves, the arsenals, the magazines and ship-yards; and I turned my attention to every thing that related to navigation and to the duties that would devolve on me on ship-board. During the voyage, which lasted six months, young Larrey kept a journal, in which he noted down every thing of interest which occurred—applying himself in fact to the investigation of matters, which at first view appear to have no connection with his profes- sion. Yet we shall see in the end that in his case, as in that of most other distinguished men, such a spirit has its reward. Du- ring his passage to Newfoundland, he made many observations in natural history—on the prevailing winds and the diseases of sea- men. He wrote a memoir on sea-sickness, prescribing a n ode of cure. We may mention as a curiosity, that his theory of sea-sick- ness is, that it consists in an oscillation of the particles of the brain, produced by the unaccustomed motion of the vessel. The oscilla- tion will be relieved by having the attention directed steadily to some distant and fixed body. The commotion of the brain, without this, is transmitted to other organs, producing general derangement of thefunctions of the organs of organic life. He says that men with laree and soft brains suffer at sea more than those with smaller heads. On this voyage he became practically acquainted with the ne- cessity of free ventilation and great cleanliness on ship-board, and directed an efficient mode of curing scorbutus, which broke out on the outward-bound passage. All these observations were careful- ly dotted down in a diary kept by young Larrey, and remain to this day, when the hand that indited them is withered in death—a me- mento of the industry of the writer^^ I cannot let the present opportunity pass without cautioning you to keep a diary, in which the daily observations and transactions of life, which at the time of enacting appear so trivial, may be re- corded, and referred to in future yeai's. The diaries of Scott, By- ron, Rush, Franklin, and even Washington, are read with the great- est pleasure even at this distant day. Most of them were kept when the writers were young men and all unknown to fame. The diary of Dr. Rush gives us the only authentic account of the yellow fever as it appeared in Philadelphia in 1793 ; and this great phi- lanthropist and philosopher leaves the following strong-testimony in favor of every young man keeping a diary: "So high is my opinion of the advantages of keeping a diary, as the best means of strengthening the mind and acquiring knowledge, that I wish it could be made an early part of education in all our public schools and colleges. A boy should never go from home, nor into company, without being obliged to bring back with him a written account of every thing he has seen and heard that was new to him—or rather, he should be sent from home and into company for the purpose. A more correct judgment might be formed of his talents, and of the specific character of his mind by this practice, than by his attainments from books. The natives of Mexico, tra- vellers tell us, discover the propensities of their children by first suspending the operations of their reason by means of strong drinks, and then throwing the tools of different trades before them. The tools they prefer to play with in this situation fix their occupations for life. A diary, by discovering the primary objects of attention in a boy, would be a more certain and delicate mode of determin-8 ing his propensity, and of fixing upon that profession for which he was designed by nature, and in which she would always acconipa- ny the exertions of his industry and ambition. For example, should he record in his diary the eloquent speeches, the pertinent anec- dotes and sallies of wit of the companies he went into, let him be educated for the pulpit, the bar, or the senate. Should he record facts and opinions that are connected with natural history and phi- losophy, let him be devoted to the study of medicine. Should he fill his diary with details of battles and sieges, and the exploits of bravery and heroism, let a commission be procured for him in the army or navy. Should he record in his journal instances of great wealth being suddenly or gradually acquired by extraordinary skill in business, or economy in living, let him be put in a counting- house. Should he dwell with delight upon the dimensions, elegance and conveniences of public or private buildings, let him be made an architect. Should the quality or the fashion of the dresses of the persons with whom he associated arrest his principal attention, let a thimble be put upon his finger and a pair of shears into his hands. And lastly—should the number or quality of the dishes upon tables to which he had been invited, fill the pages of his jour- nal, let him be sent into a kitchen to learn a business which I shall not name. It is because the propensities of boys are not discov- ered or attended to, in early life, by this or some other means, that we see so many men in situations for which they are not qualified, who would have been respectable or useful in the professions or trades for which they were born. They form the same disease in society which is known among physicians by the name of error loci. They are like red blood in serous vessels, bile in the stom- ach, and aliment in the windpipe. * * * " In making the keeping of the diary a part of the education, or a test of the genius of a boy, great care should be taken to charge him against recording a single anecdote or reflection that, if pub- lished, would give pain to a human creature. Persons who fill their diaries with such matter, may be compared to the animals that feed upon carrion. They are unfit for pure and healthy so- ciety." I need add nothing more in favor of every young man k«eping9 so simple and useful an appendage to his writing-desk. Even the most trifling occurrences become not unfrequently in after life, mat- ters of great moment to the writer and to the world. >• In October, 1778, Dr. Larrey returned to Paris, where he la- bored in the hospitals and at the public lectures of Desault and other distino-uished men of the time—of whom he ever retained a great respect and admiration. From Desault he learned to dress wounds with solutions of acetate of lead, instead of spirits, as was the custom at the time ; that extensive gun-shot wounds were fre- quently followed by hernia of the muscles ; that when the tissues were much contused by a bullet, it was better to freshen the wound by the excision of the contusf d part, changing it in this way from a contused to a simple incised wound. He also obtained hints from Sabatier and Billard on the subject of primary amputations, of which in after life he made extensive use, and brought the practice to the present advanced condition. In 1792, he was appointed assistant surgeon to the army of the Rhine—previous to which he had succeeded in forming among his compeers a medical society for the discussion of professional sub- jects. The activity, efficiency and general intelligence of the young surgeon soon became known to the army; and after the first battle his ingenuity contrived for the relief of the wounded and dying sol- dier his celebrated Ambulance, or flying hospital. The wounded were, at that time, left on the field of battle not unfrequently twen- ty-four or thirty-six hours, before the army hospitals, which accord- ing to rule were placed at least a league behind the army, could be made available for their relief. Thousands in this way perish- ed for the want of some timely relief, or from the night air and the inclemency of the season. To remedy these evils, he invented w^t he termed his Ambulances, which could be sent immediately after the attacking squadrons, and carry off" the wounded almost as fast as they fell—permitting the surgeons to stop the ha5morrhage from the main arteries, and in some cases" dressing the wounds or amputating the limbs under the very fire of the enemy. These hospitals he was enabled to bring to great perfection in future cam- paigns. He very soon rose from assistant to be senior assistant surgeon to the army, and chief director of the medical staff" and of 210 the hospital. In the midst of all this, he was experimenting on amputated limbs with galvanism, hoping to find in this a powerful therapeutic agent in the cure of disease. He reported to the Royal Academy of Surgery an improved curved needle, with a lancet shaped point, for sewing up wounds ; also an improved aneurismal needle. He here collected materials for an essay on gun-shot wounds, in which the young surgeon boldly combatted the prevail- ing opinions of the profession, and advanced others both new and original, which have since been confirmed by many of the best minds in medicine. He examined into the causes of death in in- dividuals supposed to have been killed by the wind of a ball; and proved satisfactorily that there is always sufficient lesion of the in- ternal organs to account for death, without appealing to the fanci- ful effects of the " wind of a ball." The bulletin of General Beau- harnais to the convention bears honorable testimony to the devotion of Surgeon Larrey and his colleagues, to the duties of their profes- sion in this cafnpaign—it is as follows : " Among those who so brilliantly served the republic, were Ad- jutant-Generals Bailly, Abbatouchi, of the light artillery, and Sur- geon-Major Larrey and his companions of the flying ambulances, •whose indefatigable attentions to the wounded have contributed to the cause of humanity and of their country." So active and daring was young Larrey, that he was at one time near falling into the hands of the enemy, and escaped only with a severe wound of the leg. The utility and importance of his ambulances having been stri- kingly displayed in the army of the Rhine, Larrey Avas sent to Pa- ris by the government in order to complete the organization of similar ones for the other armies of the Republic. Immediately after his arrival in Paris, he received his brevet commission as chief Surgeon to the army of Corsica, which he shortly afterwards joined. In the mean time, however, he was united to his wife. " During my short stay in the metropolis, (says he,) I fulfilled my former vows, and was united to Miss Charlotte Elizabeth, daughter ofM. Laville Leroux, minister of finance under Louis XVI. I then departed for Toulon, not without regretting the loss of my eituation in the army of the Rhine, which I had hoped to resume."11 On his arrival at Toulon, he was introduced to the officers of the military staff, among whom was General Bonaparte, commander of the artillery. During some months' detention at this place, and with the army of the maratime Alps, he was engaged in inspecting the medical departments of the armies, and making observations on drowning, and the best mode of treatment for the Asphyxia pro- duced by immersion in water. On his return to Paris in 1796, he was engaged with the further improvements of his ambulances for use in the suburbs of the city, in the domestic disturbances which characterized the period. During the same year, he was ordered asain to Toulon, with the view of joining an expedition which was however finally indefinitely postponed. The winter of this year was spent, at the solicitations of many of the naval and military surgeons, in lectures on anatomy and theoretical and clinical sur- gery. Each lecture on physiological anatomy was followed by corresponding experiments on living animals, and all the dead sub- jects of the naval and military hospitals, were reserved for dissec- tions and anatomical preparations. With all this, he found time to write out observations on malignant tubercle, carbuncle, and seve- ral similar subjects. He was again ordered by the minister of war to repair to Paris, and occupy one of the professorships in the sur- gical department of the military school established at Val de Grace ; where, in addition to the usual theoretical courses of instruction, large and valuable public clinics were held, for the benefit of young men designed for the army or navy. In this school were collected men of the highest reputation in our profession, and names which will long retain their places in the annals of surgery. In the following spring, that of 1797, before he had finished his course of lectures in the military school, he was called to superin- tend the armies occupied beyond the Alps, in the Italian cam- paigns. Here agaifa, like his great friend Napoleon, we find him visiting the cities, naval and military depots, and superintending every thing that belonged to his department of the service. Here also his ambulances were brought to the highest perfection, and their utility fully tested. This service occupied him until the spring of 179S, when in the company of Napoleon he started on the bril- liant but disastrous campaigns of Egypt and Syria.12 Among the many subjects which occupied his mind and pen, du- ring these campaigns, were the establishment of a medical school at Cairo, learned and interesting memoirs (which may be seen in his works) on the following subjects: the Egyptian Ophthalmia, which was so destructive to the eyes of the French and English soldiers ; Ancient Surgery and Medicine, as practiced at Thebes, the facts drawn chiefly from an inspection of the mummies, paint- ings, &c., of the Pyramids ; Yellow Fever, associated with gun- shot wounds ; Hepatitis, Leprosy, and Elephantiasis, wounds ; the manners and habits of the people, including marriage rites and other ceremonies ; state of Medicine and Surgery among the mod- ern Egyptians ; Climate ; the Leeches of the country, which lat- ter produced disease in the soldiers after drinking the water, often fastening themselves in the fauces, nares and throat of the patient, subjecting him to immense hajmmorrhages, inducing great irrita- tion and in some cases death. In February, 1801, he with the rest of the army returned to Mar- seilles, and thence to Paris, where he found his distinguished friend no longer a mere general of the republican forces, but cloth- ed with the dignities of the first consul. Larrey's reception by the great man was most flattering; and his friend Berthier, now trans- formed into the minister of war, transmitted to him a public testimo- nial from the first consul. A pension of fifteen hundred francs was bestowed upon his wife. The soldiers and surgeons of the repub- lic vied with each other in conferring honors on the surgeon-in- chief of the armies of Egypt and Italy; and the government, or rather Napoleon, made him first surgeon to the consular guard. " This (says this distinguished surgeon) was the happiest day of my life." All his toils and labors seemed now naturally to termi- nate, and a rational prospect was before him in the new order of things, that he should henceforth enjoy his honors and domestic fe- licities at home, in Paris—the centre of attraction at that time to the civilized world. For a time his expectations were fulfilled— he had time to collect and arrange his notes, memoirs and other writings, and have them published, forming a work of three vol- umes, under the title, after the example of the illustrious Pare, of " Memoirs of Barron Larrey."13 These labors, pleasant, though arduous as they might ho, were not sufficient to occupy his ever active mind, for during the very next winter we find him, at the request of a large number of pupils and surgeons, delivering another course of lectures on experimen- tal surgery. He also publicly defended a thesis before the new school of medicine, at the head of which was his old friend and pre- ceptor Sabatier, on the subject of amputations, and obtained the title, being the first to receive it, of " Doctor in Surgery." His surgical memoirs came out about the same time, and were well received by the different universities throughout Europe—the re- sults of which was the bestowal of honors and titles on the gifted author. The dedication of this work was made to his friend the first consul. Dr. Larrey was now thirty-six years of age—surrounded by the brilliant court of the first consul—courted and caressed by his pro- fession—and, to the mind of a moderate man, at the height of his ambition; in his case the old adage of our profession, which says that a man must wait until his teeth are lost before he can supply them with bread, seems to have been reversed—for we find him in the meridian of life enjoying all the honors, except that of retire- ment, of old age. But the world knows that this state of things did not last; that that inscrutable being who now ruled the desti- nies of France was merely taking breathing time, in order the more fiercely and successfully to launch forth those invincible arms which seemed destined to encompass the globe. Peace, Peace, was the cry of the already astonished nations, and he gave them peace—but it was a peace more terrible than the lightning's flash, for in it, he collected his scattered forces, re-organized the govern- ment of his country, consolidated his own power, and prepared with the suddenness and unerring swoop of the eagle, to pounce upon the first nation which his choice might select as the prey of his insatiable ambition. The spring of 1805 opened with the campaign of Bologne, Ulm and Auslerlitz. After the first brush in these campaigns a cessation of hostilities occurred, which gave Larrey leisure to return to his family in Paris, and write out essays on Aneurism, on the spontane- ous causes of active arterial ha;mmorrhage, on the eflfects of rheu-u inotism on the fibrous and osseous systems, on moveable and pre- ternatural cartilages of the joints, on cerebral epilepsy, on ampu- tation, d:c.; all of which are copiously illustrated by numerous and interesting cases. From September, 1806, to October, 1807, the time was taken up with the campaigns of Prussia and Poland, when the celebra- ted battle of Jena decided the fate of Prussia, and made Saxony an ally of the French nation. The treatment of asphyxia from mem- phitic gases—a memoir on the dry gangrene produced by frost, or the gangrene from congelation, with a memoir on the Plica Po- lonica, were some of the results of these military excursions. His return from Berlin to Paris is narrated by hira in the following words : " I passed through Witteraberg, Leipsic and Jena, and tar- ried a few days in these two last cities, celebrated for their univer- sities. At Leipsic, I beheld with veneration the amphitheatre in which the immortal Leibnitz delivered his excellent lectures. Oth- er eminent men now adorn the university of this city. From Leip- sic I repaired to Jena, and visited the hospitals, in which there were still some soldiers who had been wounded in the battle near that city. I was much gratified with the distinguished attention with which I was received by the Professors of Jena. They press- ed me to remain some time among them. While there, I received the degree of Doctor in Physic from the University, after having defended a thesis and submitted to the usual examination. I ar- rived in Paris on the last of October, and immediately resumed my duties at the hospital of the guard. The Emperor had repaired to Milan to be crowned King of Italy. During this journey, his ma- jesty conferred upon me the honorary title of " knight of the iron crown,''and I received the insignia of this order on the first of Jan- uary, 1808." On the 11th of February, 1808, he set out on his journey to Spain—the first of the two campaigns carried on in that country. A memoir on traumatic gangrene—one on the colic of Uladrid, which he proved to originate in the poisonous drugging of the wines of the country, especially l^y lead and the more narcotic plants— with a memoir on a particular malignant fever, were some of the results of this campaign. The second Spanish campaign was shorty15 and terminated after immense exposures of the army and of Barron Larrey. The hitter was near the gates of death, and a long time passed ere his constitution recovered from the effects of these hard- ships. In April, however, of 1809, we find him, in his own words, without waiting the entire recovery of his health from the shocks he had sustained in Spain, setting out to join the imperial guard, then in Bavaria, on the campaign of Austria. We will not attempt even to enumerate all the various memoirs and essays which were the result of this campaign. His favorite theory of primary amputation was here again put fully to the test, to the number it is said of sixty cases in one day, by his own hand. Was ever man better situated to try the effect of his theory in prac tice ? His knife, it is said, dropped from his hand from sheer ex- haustion. Whole days and nights were spent by this indefatigable surgeon, in performing with his own hand the most delicate and important surgical operations. The meanest soldier and the great- est general shared alike his heroic services. Like an angel of mercy, his untiring feet passed from tent to tent, from one cot of straw to another, and soothed the wounded and dying soldier. Some of the most touching scenes of sympathy and gratitude are recorded as taking place in these trying circumstances. At one mo- ment called to a mean hovel, to staunch the life-blood of a distin- guished leader, fallen—and the next bearing off in triumph scores of the poor soldiers in his flying ambulances, and saving them from inevitable death—how cool must have been the judgment, and great the self-control, can be more easily imagined than described. The can;paign of Austria, in which Vienna was taken, and peace dictated from the royal palace of Schoenbrun, was however but the prelude to that ever memorable drama in the world's history, the campaign of Russia, with its terrible retreat from Moscow: " Moscow! thou limit of his long career, For which rude Charles had wept his frozen tear To see, in vain—he saw thee—how ! with spira And palace to one common fire; To this, the soldier lent his kindling match, To this, the peasant gave his cottage thatch, To this, the merchant flung his hoarded store. The prince his hall—and Moscow was no more."—Byron.Id The following is Barron Larrey's simple statement of his ap' pointment as surgeon-in-chicf to the grand army, which was, in the witty but sarcastic language of Talleyrand, to take part in the " beginning of the end :" " Promising myself that repose which very active duties in a war of twenty years' duration should have secured for me, I formed the design of collecting the notes contained in the journal of my com- paigns, with the view of submitting them for publication, and thus rendering my labors profitable to younger military surgeons. This difficult task had scarcely been accomplished at the expiration of the year 1811, by the publication of three volumes of my memoirs, when we were apprised of the great preparations of the govern- ment for the purposes of war, and of the measures in progress, in- dicative of a distant expedition. My fears on this point were by no means tardily confirmed, by the reception of an order of depar- ture, accompanied by the decree of February 12th, 1812, appoint- ing me surgeon-in-chief to the grand army. I could no longer entertain my doubts respecting the opening of a new campaign." This campaign and its disastrous retreat, particularly the latter, furnished Barron Larrey with extensive opportunities of observa- tion on the effects of cold, mental depression, famine, epidemics, and the most heart-rending privations—on wounds, and the consti- tutions of men, from all parts of Europe. He states, as the result of his observations, that the dark-haired or bilious temperament from the south of Europe, endured the rigors of cold and famine much better than the light-haired lymphatic temperament of the north; and that divisions formed of French, Spanish and Italian soldiers, retained their numbers much better than those composed of Germans and Poles. His descriptions of the depressing effects of cold, in all cases in- creased by famine, with the phenomena preceding death—such as delirium, blindness, staggering and sleep—exhibit all the effects of this sedative on both man and animals. It was observed that the soldiers who were found dead in the road, invariably lay on the abdomen. When one began to congeal he would stagger; his companions would support him for a time, (he walking between- them,) until, his strength failing, he was pushed out of the ranks,17 and soon fell on the road side, never more to rise. Another re- markable fact was, that those who incautiously approached the camp-fires from being insensible to heat, would burn themselves ; and even when they did not absolutely hurn their limbs, mortifica- tion would rapidly supervene as the consequence of the thawing, and amputation or death, or both, vmst speedily follow. Young men suffered more than the middle aged, and died in greater num- bers. Barron Larrey saved his life by constant activity and avoid- ing the fire. A return to good food and comfortable quarters, as was the case occasionally in their long and dreary retreat, was fol- lowed by a meningeal fever of a catarrhal natm-e. The contrac- tion of the intestinal tube, consequent to long starvation, requires a slow and gradual resumption of food, to accustom the system to the stimulus of an ordinary quantity of aliment, otherwise fever and delirium set in, and terminates rapidly in death. This was the melancholy fate of many brave men who had borne the whole of the privations of the retreat, and were congratulating themselves on their safe deliverance from famine and death. A striking example of the estimation that the surgeon-inrchief was held in by the army, occurred during the retreat. At the pas- sage of the Berizina, whose waters were but partially frozen over, and whose bi-idges had been broken down by the enemy and tem- porary ones erected by the army, Barron Larrey had crossed the only remaining bridge in order to procure some surgical instru- ments necessary to an operation—and had returned, when the ene- my pressed so hard upon the despairing thousands that a general rush was made for the bridge, while some even attempted crossing on the ice, but failed and were lost. At this juncture our surgeon, borne along by the crowd, was in imminent danger of destruction ; when some of the soldiers recognizing him, lifted him on to their shoulders and so passed him along, until safely landed, to his great joy, upon the bridge. This evidence of attachment on the part of his soldiers, said he, "fully rewarded me for the whole of my pri- vations, as well as the total loss of my baggage.'' The best food which the wretched men could obtain was soup, made of horse-flesh—of which, until the horses all died, they hadIS a pretty good supply. After this, however, even that ceased, and the leather of their very shoes was eaten. In the campaign of Aus- tria, indeed, he speaks highly of the soup made of horse-flesh, sea- soned with gunpowder, as a diet for soldiers. The year 1813 was occupied with the terrible campaigns, or rather retreats and massacres, of the great army in Saxony. At one battle, that of Leipsic, he records no less than six thousand wounded; and to increase the dreadful mortality, an epidemic broke out which followed them to France. After the abdication of the Emperor at Fontainbleu, Barron Lar- rey proceeded with the rest of the great officers of state to Paris, and was appointed immediately by the King to the same posts of honor which he held under the empire. In the short but decisive campaign which terminated in the battle of Waterloo, the French surgeons had of course but little opportunity for the observation of surgical diseases ; the English surgeons, however, profited by the rich harvest of wounds inflicted on this field of blood. Larrey, from this time until his appointment as surgeon-in-chief to the army in Algiers by Louis Phillippe, enjoyed that ease which was necessary, after so long and arduous service in the cause of humanity. Surrounded by the savans and literati of the academy of France—honored by his King with the appointment to several distinguished posts—and respected as the A'eteran of an hundred fights—he now found time to write out more fully several of his memoirs, deliver lectures on clinical and theoretical surgery; and, in fact, to prepare for the profession his matured views on many important topics in surgery. His commission creating him surgeon-in-chief of the army in Algiers, pleased and gratified him much in his old days—producing upon his faculties the effect which the distant sound of the trumpet does upon the old war-horse. He rose up, and threw off" for a time the lethargy of increasing years, and prepared to enter the field again with the enthusiasm of his youthful days. He visited the scene of action, and once more was himself seeing and overseemg everything in the medica'l^department of what he denominated the young army. But the day of his strength had gone by; the un-