LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 20 In a child the arteria innominata often lies in front of the trachea and divides a little higher than the joint: a point to be remembered in tracheotomy (39). 44. Apex of lung- in the neck.—The extent to which the apex of the lung rises into the neck is greater than is generally supposed. Many observations in reference to this point lead to the conclusion that the lung rises behind the sterno-mastoid, on an average, one inch and a half above the clavicle ; in persons with long necks, as much as two inches. The apex of the lung and pleura, however, is not near the surface but deeply seated, being covered by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-thyroid, and a part of the scalenus anticus. It is also crossed by the subclavian vessels in the first part of their course. This cervical portion of lung, being peculiarly liable to tubercular disease, should always be carefully examined. Its condition may be ascer- tained by percussion over the sternal end of the clavicle. 45. Supra-clavicular fossa.—The hollow above the clavicle, between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, is very manifest in emaciation and old age. In shrugging the shoulders it becomes remarkably pronounced. Notice the termination here of the external jugular vein. In some necks only a small depression is visible, particularly when the trapezius has a broad insertion into the clavicle, and comes well forwards, so that its front border gives a graceful contour to the base of the neck. 46. Subclavian artery.—The pulsation of the subclavian artery can be felt and even seen in the supra-clavicular fossa, near the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and about one inch above the clavicle. Here the artery lies upon the first rib, and can be effectually compressed. A little pressure is sufficient. But the pressure must be made in the right direc- tion, or the artery will be pressed off the rib instead of against it. The plane of the rib is such that the pressure, to be effectual, must be made in a direction downwards and a little inwards. It is best to stand behind the shoulder and make the pressure with one thumb. The arm should be placed downwards, if convenient, so as to depress the clavicle ; and