7i THE FOREARM AND WRIST edge of the radial flexor tendon, so as to avoid injury to the median nerve. We can feel the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris for some distance above the wrist. It overlies the ulnar artery, and somewhat masks its pulsation. 171. Pulse.—The ' pulse at the wrist' is felt just outside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. In feeling the pulse it should be remembered that, in some cases, the superficialis volae arises higher and is larger than usual. In such cases it runs by the side of the radial artery, and gives additional volume to the pulse. The old writers call it ' pulsus duplex.' When in doubt, therefore, it is well to feel the pulse in each wrist. 172. Great carpal bursa.—The great synovial sheath under the annular ligament common to the flexor tendons of the fingers and the long flexor of the thumb, extends, upwards, about an inch and a half above the edge of the liga- ment, and, downwards, as low as the middle of the palm. This general synovial sheath communicates with the special sheaths of the thumb and the little finger ; not with that of the index, middle, and ring fingers. 173. 4 Tabatiere anatomique.'—On the outer side of the wrist we can distinctly see and feel, when in action, the three extensor tendons of the thumb. Between the second and third there is deep depression, at the root of the thumb, which the French humorously call the 'tabatiere anatomique.' In this depression we can make out—1, the relief of the super- ficial radial vein ; 2, the radial artery, in its passage to the back of the hand ; 3, the upper end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. 174. Tendons on back of wrist.—The relative positions of the several extensor tendons of the wrist and fingers, as they play in their grooves over the back of the radius and ulna, can all be distinctly traced when the several muscles are put in action. The length of their synovial sheaths should be remembered. They vary from one inch and a half to two inches and a half. The longest of all are those of the extensors of the thumb. When these sheaths are inflamed and swollen,