THE CHEST 27 of the right corresponds with the direction of the cartilage of the sixth rib : the margin of the left, being notched for the heart, runs behind the cartilage of the fourth. A line drawn perpendicularly from the nipple would find the lung margin about the lowest part of the sixth rib. Laterally, i.e. in the axillary line, the lung margin comes down as low as the eighth rib ; posteriorly, i.e. in the dorsal or scapular line, it descends as low as the tenth. It should be remembered that, in a deep inspiration, the lung margins descend posteriorly about one inch and a half. In children the lungs are separated in front by the thymus gland. Allowance should be made for this. About the ap- proach of puberty the thymus disappears. 60. Anterior mediastinum.—The direction of the an- terior mediastinum is not straight down the middle of the sternum, but slants a little to the left, owing to the position of the heart. The right pleural sac generally encroaches a little upon the left, behind the middle of the sternum. A needle introduced through the middle of the sternum opposite the third or the fourth rib would probably go through the right pleura. 61. Reflection of pleura.—The reflection of the pleura from the wall of the chest on to the diaphragm corresponds with a sloping line drawn from the bottom of the sternum over the cartilages of the ribs down to the lower border of the last rib. Since the pleura lines the inside of the last rib, a musket ball or other foreign body, loose in the pleural sac, and rolling on the diaphragm, might fall to the lowest part of the sac, which would be between the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The ball might be extracted here. The chest might also be tapped here, but not with a trochar, since a trochar would penetrate both layers of pleura, and go through the diaphragm into the abdomen. The operation should be done cautiously, by an incision beginning about two inches from the spine, on the outer border of the ' erector spinae,' on a level between the spines of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. The intercostal