THE THIGH 49 the saphenous opening, and immediately under Poupart's ligament. As the plane of the ring is vertical in the supine position of the body, the way in which we should try to re- duce a femoral hernia is by pressure, applied first in a down- ward direction, afterwards in an upward. The intestine protruded has to pass back under a sharp edge of fascia, namely, the upper horn of the saphenous opening (known as Hey's ligament). At the same time we bend the thigh, to relax the fascia as much as possible. A good way to find the seat of the femoral ring with precision is the following:—Feel for the pulsation of the femoral artery on the pubes ; allow half an inch (on the inner side) for the femoral vein ; then comes the femoral ring. In performing the operation for the relief of the stricture in femoral hernia the incision through the skin should be about an inch and a half external to the spine of the pubes. Its direction should be vertically upwards, and its middle should be just over the femoral ring. IIS- Lymphatic glands in the groin.—The cluster of inguinal and femoral lymphatic glands can sometimes be felt in thin persons. The inguinal lie for the most part along the line of Poupart's ligament: they receive the absorbents from the wall of the abdomen, and of the buttock, the urethra, the penis, the scrotum, and the anus. Hence they are generally affected in venereal disease. The femoral glands lie chiefly over the saphenous opening and along the outer side of the saphena vein : they receive all the absorbents of the lower extremity; they receive some also from the scrotum—of which we have practical evidence in cases of chimney- sweeper's cancer. 116. Trochanter major—The trochanter major is a most valuable landmark, to which we are continually appealing in injuries and diseases of the lower extremity. There is a natural depression over the hip (in fat persons) where it lies very near the surface, and can be plainly felt, especially when the thigh is rotated. Nothing intervenes between the bone and the skin except the strong fascia of the gluteus maximus and the great bursa underneath it. E