THE ABDOMEN 35 Although the position of the umbilicus varies a little in different persons, according to the more or less protuberance of the abdomen, still, as a general rule, it is placed about the level of the body of the third lumbar vertebra. Now, since the aorta divides a little below the middle of the fourth lum- bar, it follows that the best place to apply pressure on this great vessel is one inch below the umbilicus, and slightly to the left of it (81). That the aorta can, under favourable cir- cumstances, be compressed under chloroform sufficiently to cure an aneurysm below it, is proved by recorded cases, and by none more effectually than by a case related in the second volume of the ' Reports of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.' It may be asked, why not apply pressure on the aorta above the umbilicus ? The answer is, that the aorta above the umbilicus is farther from the surface, and is, moreover, covered by important structures upon which pressure would be dangerous. 79. Parts behind linea alba.—Let us next consider what viscera lie immediately behind the linea alba. For two or three fingers' breadth below the ensiform cartilage there is the left lobe of the liver, which here crosses the middle line. Below the edge of the liver comes the stomach, more or less in contact with the linea alba, according to its degree of dis- tension. In extreme distension the stomach pushes every- thing out of the way, and occupies all the room between the liver and the umbilicus. When empty and contracted, it retreats behind the liver, and lies flat in front of the pancreas at the back of the abdomen ; thus giving rise to the hollow termed the 'pit of the stomach.' But as the stomach dis- tends, it makes a considerable fulness where there was a pit. The transverse arch of the colon crosses the linea alba just above the umbilicus (sometimes quite as low). Here is the most convex part of its arch, and it lies close to the abdomi- nal wall. Here, therefore, would be a fit place to tap it in extreme tympanites. Behind and below the umbilicus, sup- posing the bladder contracted, are the small intestines, covered by the great omentum. 80. Peritoneum—The peritoneum is in contact with the