LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL The root of the spine of the scapula is marked by a slight dimple in the skin. This is on a level with the third inter- costal space. A stethoscope placed on the inner side of this dimple would cover the bronchus, more especially the right, since it is nearer to the chest wall. Make a man lean forwards, with his arms folded across the chest; this will make prominent the spines of the ver- tebrae. The lower border of the trapezius will guide you to the spine of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. 66. The place where the kidney is most accessible to pressure is below the last rib, on the outer edge of the erector spinae. The landmarks in the operation of lumbar nephrec- tomy are the same as those for colotomy. The greatest amount of room is obtained by an incision extending along the outer edge of the erector spinse, between the last rib and the crest of the ilium ; this incision should be joined by another running along the lower edge of the last rib. 67. The highest part of the ilium is about the level of the fourth lumbar spine. The best incision for opening the descending colon is in a slightly sloping line beginning at the outer edge of the erector spinse, midway between the crest of the ilium and the last rib, and continued across the flank for three inches or more, according to the amount of subcutaneous fat. 68. In the pit of the neck we can feel the trapezius and the ligamentum nuchas. By pressing deeply we detect the forked and prominent spine of the second cervical vertebra. 69. The spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae recede from the surface to permit free extension of the neck, and cannot often be felt. But the spines of the sixth and seventh (v. prominens) stand out well. 70 Notice that most of the spines of the dorsal vertebra?, owing to their obliquity, do not tally with the heads of their corresponding ribs. Thus, the spine of the second dorsal corresponds with the head of the third rib ; the spine of the third dorsal with the head of the fourth rib, and so on till we come to the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae, which do