THE ABDOMEN 43 colon overlaid by the small intestines runs up the right lumbar region over the right kidney. The transverse colon crosses the abdomen above the umbilicus, sometimes even lower. The descending colon lies in the left lumbar region in front of the left kidney, covered by the small intestines. The sig- moid flexure occupies the left iliac fossa. Throughout this tortuous course, except at the hepatic and splenic flexures, the colon is accessible to pressure, and we could, under favourable circumstances, detect hardened faeces in it. In a case which occurred in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, a collection of faeces in the transverse colon formed a distinct tumour in the abdomen. All the symptoms yielded to large and repeated injections of olive oil. In an- other case an accumulation of faecal matter in the sigmoid flexure during life was mistaken for a malignant disease. ioi. Colotomy.—The operation of opening the colon (colotomy) may be done in the right or left loin, below the kidney, in that part of the colon not usually covered by peri- toneum. The landmarks of the operation are :—(i) The last rib, of which feel the sloping edge ; (2) the crest of the ilium ; (3) the outer border of the ' erector spinae.' The incision should be about three inches long, midway between the rib and the ilium. It should begin at the outer border of the ' erector spinae,' and should slope downwards and outwards in the direction of the rib. The edge of the ' quadratus lumborum,' which is the guide to the colon, is about one inch external to the edge of the ' erector spinae,' or three full inches from the lumbar spines. The line of the gut is vertical, and runs for a good two inches between the lower border of the kidney and the iliac crest on the left side; rather less on the right. Small intestines.—All the room below the umbilicus is occupied by the small intestines. The transverse part of the duodenum crosses the spine at the second lumbar vertebra, about an inch and a half above the level of the umbilicus. On account of its fixity and its close connection to the spine, this part of the small intestine is the most likely to be in- jured by severe blows on the abdomen. The coils of the