THE HEAD 5 the finger can detect, during labour, the position of the head of the child. 8. Frontal sinuses -The 1 frontal sinuses' formed by the separation of the two tables of the skull vary much in size in different persons and at different periods of life. This fact has an important bearing on wounds in the forehead and on trephining in this situation. These ' bumps ' do not exist in children, because the tables of the skull do not begin to separate before puberty. From an examination of many skulls in the Hunterian Museum, I find that the absence of the ' bumps,' even in middle age, does not necessarily imply the absence of the sinuses, since they may be formed by a retrocession of the inner wall of the skull. In old persons, as a rule, when the sinuses enlarge, it is owing to the encroach- ment of the inner table on the brain case. The inner wall of the skull here follows the shrinking brain. It is, therefore, important to bear in mind that an adult, and more especially an elderly person, may have a large frontal sinus without any external indication of it. Neither does a very prominent bump necessarily imply the existence of a large sinus, or indeed of even a small one The ' bump ' may be a mere heaping up of bone, a degrada- tion, as in some Australian skulls. g. Mastoid process.—The mastoid process, which can be felt behind the ear, contains air-cells, to which the above observations equally apply. Like the frontal sinuses, they are lined by mucous membrane. When inflamed and full of pus, the process becomes very painful and swollen, and must be trephined early to evacuate the pus. io. Occipital protuberance.—The occipital protuber- ance, and the superior curved line, can be distinctly felt at the back of the head. The protuberance is always the thickest part of the skull-cap, and more prominent in some than in others. The posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, grooved by the lateral sinus, is on a level with the zygoma, and a trifle more than one inch behind the front border of the mastoid process.