64 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL slightly inclined downwards, when the arm hangs quietly by the side When the body lies flat on the back, the shoulder not only falls back, but rises a little, the weight of the limb being taken off. Hence the modern and very good practice of treating fractures of the clavicle (in the early stage) by the supine position. On the front surface of the clavicle, not far from its acromial end, there is in many persons of mature age a spine-like projection of bone. So far as I know, it has not been described. A gentleman, himself a surgeon, showed me an instance in his own person. He suspected it was an exostosis. As a rule the acromio-clavicular joint forms an even plane. But there is sometimes a knob of bone at the acromial end of the clavicle ; or it may be only a thickening of the fibro-cartilage, sometimes existing in the joint. In either case this relief might be mistaken for a dislocation, or even for a fracture. A reference to the other shoulder might settle the question. 155. Bony points of the shoulder.—We can distinctly feel the spine of the scapula and the acromion, more especially at the angle where they join behind the shoulder. This angle is the best place from which to measure in taking the com- parative length of the arms. In some shoulders, though very rarely, there is an ab- normal symphysis between the spine of the scapula and the acromion. There may indeed be two symphyses and two acromial bones, the acromion having two centres of ossifica- tion These abnormal symphyses might be mistaken for fractures, until we have examined the opposite shoulder, which is'sure to present a similar conformation.10 Tuberosities.-Projecting beyond the acromion (the arm hanging by the side), we can feel, through the fibres of the deltoid, the upper part of the humerus. It distinctly moves under the hand when the arm is rotated. It is not the head of the bone which is felt, but the tuberosities, the greater externally, the lesser in front. These tuberosities form the convexity of the shoulder. When the arm is raised, this