LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 26 forwards, backwards, on this side and on that, feeling, at the same time, the heart. Inspiration and expiration also alter the position of the heart. In a deep inspiration it may descend half an inch, and can be felt beating at the pit of the stomach. 58. Valves of the heart.—The aortic valves lie behind the third intercostal space, close to the left side of the sternum. The pulmonary valves lie in front of the aortic behind the junction of the third costal cartilage, on the left side, with the sternum. The tricuspid valves lie behind the middle of the sternum, about the level of the fourth costal cartilage, The mitral valves (the deepest of all) lie behind the third intercostal space, about one inch to the left of the sternum. Thus these valves are so situated that the mouth of an ordinary sized stethoscope will cover a portion of them all, if placed over the sternal end of the third intercostal space, on the left side. All are covered by a thin layer of lung ; there- fore we hear their action better when the breathing is for a moment suspended. 59. Outline of the lungs.—Now let us trace on the chest the outline of the lungs, with as much precision as their ex- pansion and contraction in breathing permit. (See the cut.) The apex of each lung rises into the neck behind the sternal end of the clavicle and sterno-mastoid muscle as much as an inch and a half: in females rather higher than in males (44). From the sternal ends of the clavicles the lungs converge, so that their thin edges almost meet in the mesial line on a level with the second costal cartilage. Thus there is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth the margins of the lungs run parallel, or nearly so, close behind the middle of the sternum : consequently their thin edges overlap the great vessels and valves at the base of the heart. Below the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the lungs diverge, but not in an equal degree. The margin