THE FACE 9 the parotid gland, divides, close to the posterior border of the lower jaw, into its chief branches, which run towards the temple, the orbit, the cheek, and the jaw, to supply the muscles of the face. It can be readily galvanised in facial palsy by placing one pole at the lobule of the ear, and the other at the desired points of the face. 22. Temporal and facial arteries.—The pulsation of the trunk of the temporal artery can be felt between the root of the zygoma and the ear. This is well known to and used by chloroformists. It is also a convenient pulse to feel in a sleeping patient. The facial artery can be distinctly felt as it passes over the body of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter; again near the corner of the mouth close to the mucous membrane ; and, lastly, by the side of the ala nasi, up to the inner side of the tendo oculi. By holding the lips between the ringer and thumb the coronary arteries are felt under the mucous membrane, and might be compressed by a spring clip in ' hare-lip ' operations. The facial vein does not accompany the tortuous artery, but runs a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the front border of the masseter, just behind the artery. 23. The ear.—The external auditory canal is about one inch and a quarter in length. It inclines at first somewhat upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards to the membrana tympani. Owing to the oblique direction of this membrane, the floor of the canal is longer than the roof. The narrowest portion is about the middle ; hence the diffi- culty of extracting foreign bodies which have passed to the end of it. To examine the canal without a speculum the ear should be pulled upwards and backwards. 24. Eyelids and eyes.—The opening between the eyelids varies in size in different persons ; hence more of the eyeball is seen in some than in others, and the eye appears larger. Although human eyes do vary a little in size, yet the actual difference is by no means so great as is generally supposed. The size of the fissure and the fat in the orbit have much to do with the apparent size of the eye. Contrast the narrow fissure of the Chinese and Mongolian races, and the apparent