THE ARM 67 brachial artery; except that half way down the nerve crosses the artery superficially from its outer to its inner side. The ulnar nerve in the arm lies at first on the inner side of the brachial artery: but near the middle of the arm it leaves the artery and runs down behind the internal condyle of the humerus. The musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery wind round the back of the humerus about its middle, and come to the front of the external condyloid ridge. Thus, for full three inches above the condyles, there is not much to in- terfere with operations on the back of the bone, which is here broad and flat. 161. Bend of elbow.—At the end of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps can be plainly felt, as well as the pulsation of the brachial artery close to its inner side, before dividing into the radial and ulnar. Cutaneous veins—The bend of the elbow in young chil- dren, and in persons with fat and round arms, presents a semicircular fold of which the curve embraces the lower part of the biceps; but in muscular persons we see the distinct boundaries of the triangular space, formed by the pronator teres on the inner side, and the supinator longus on the outer. Here can be traced, standing out in strong relief under the thin white skin, the superficial veins, which, in days gone by, when bloodletting was the fashion, were of such great importance. Their arrangement, although subject to variety, is very much like the branches of the letter M, the middle of the M being at the middle of the elbow. Of these branches the median basilic, which runs over the tendon of the biceps, is the largest and most conspicuous, and is generally selected for venesection ; it crosses the course of the brachial artery, nothing intervening but the semilunar aponeurosis from the tendon of the biceps. 162. Landmarks of elbow—It is of great importance to be farmhar with the relative positions of the various bony prominences about the elbow. We can always feel the internal and external condyles. The internal is the more prominent of the two, and a trifle higher. r z