37 THE ABDOMEN than the left; but their average length is pretty nearly the same. 82. Mr. Abernethy, who in the year 1796 first put a liga- ture round the external iliac, made his incision in the line of the artery. But the easiest and safest way to reach the vessel is by an incision (recommended in the first instance by Sir Astley Cooper, and now generally adopted), beginning just on the inner side of the artery, a little above Poupart's ligament, and continued upwards and outwards a little beyond the spine of the ilium. The same incision extended farther in the same direction would reach the common iliac. 83. Bony prominences.—The anterior superior spine of the ilium, the spine of the pubes, and the line of Poupart's ligament, are landmarks with which every surgeon should be thoroughly familiar. 84. Spine of ilium.—The anterior superior spine of the ilium is the spot from which we measure the length of the lower extremity. It is a valuable landmark in determining the nature of injuries to the pelvis and the hip. The thumb easily feels the spine, even in fat persons. Its position with regard to the trochanter major should be carefully examined. The best way to do this is to place the thumbs firmly on the opposite spines, and to grasp the trochanters with the fingers. Any abnormal position on one side is thus easily ascertained with the sound side as a guide. 85. Spine of pubes.—The spine of the pubes is the best guide to the external abdominal ring. It is generally covered by fat and cannot therefore be easily felt by placing the fin- ger directly over it. To feel it distinctly, we should push up the skin of the scrotum and get beneath the subcutaneous fat. If there be any difficulty in finding it, abduct the thigh, and the tense tendon of the adductor longus will lead up to it. The position of the spine of the pubes is appealed to as a means of diagnosis in doubt between inguinal and femoral hernia. The spine lies on the outer side of the neck of an inguinal hernia, on the inner side of the neck of a femoral. The spine of the pubes is nearly on the same horizontal line as the upper part of the trochanter major. In this line,