io LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL smallness of their eyes with those of Europeans. As a rule the external angle of the lid is higher than the internal. When not exaggerated, it gives the face an arch and pleasing expression. Evert the lids to see the Meibomian glands ; observe their perpendicular arrangement, in the substance of the tarsal cartilages. The free borders of the lids are not beveled, as described by J. L. Petit and most anatomists, ' so as to form with the globe of the closed eye a triangular canal for the flow of the tears.' On the contrary, it is easily seen that the lid margins, when closed, come into accurate contact. Every time the eye is shut, the ball turns upwards and in- wards, so that the cornea is completely covered by the upper lid. This may be well seen by raising the lid of a sleeping infant; also in cases of low fever when the lid is not com- pletely closed. This up-turning of the eye clears the cornea, and protects it from the light. A careful examination of the motion of the lower lid in the act of shutting the eye proves that it is a double motion. The lid is not only slightly raised, but drawn inwards about ■jij of an inch. This second movement sweeps any particles of dust as well as moisture towards the inner canthus. 25. Puncta lachrymalia.— The puncta lachrymalia are distinctly visible at the inner angles of the lids. The lower punctum is larger and a little more external than the upper, so that they are not exactly opposite. The direction, too, of the puncta deserves notice. Their open mouths look a little backwards, ready to imbibe the tears. When their proper bearing is lost, as in facial paralysis or by a cicatrix near the lid, the tears overflow the cheek. The length of the lachry- mal canals is from three to four lines. The lower is a little shorter and wider than the upper. As each makes a little angle in its course, about a line from its orifice, the lid should be drawn outwards to straighten the canal when we introduce a probe. 26. lachrymal sac, and tendo oculi.—To find the lachrymal sac, draw outwards the eyelids to tighten the tendo