Pavy on Pood and Dietetics, 10 Pharmaceutical Journal, 2 Pharmacopoeia of the London Hospital, 7 Phillips' Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 7 Pollock's Histology of the Eye and Eyelids, 12 Priestley's Intro-Uterine Death, 5 Purcell on Cancer, 13 Quinby's Notes on Dental Practice, 12 Raye's Ambulance Handbook, 10 Reynolds' (J. J.) Diseases of Women, 5 • Notes on Midwifery, 5 Richardson's Mechanical Dentistry, 13 Roberts' (C.) Detection of Colour-IS lindness, 5 Roberts' (D. Lloyd) Practice of Midwifery, 5 Robinson (Tom) on Eczema, 14 on Syphilis, 14 Robinson (W.l on Endemic Goitre or 'L'hyreocele, 12 Ross's Aphasia, 9 Diseases of the Nervous System, 9 Handbook of ditto, 9 Routh's Infant Feeding, 7 Royal College of Surgeons Museum Catalogues, 2 Royle and Harley's Materia Medica, 7 St. Bartholomew's Hospital Catalogue, 2 St. George's Hospital Reports, ? St. Thomas's Hospital Reports, 2 hansom's Valvular Disease of the Heart, S Savage on the Female Pelvic Organs, 6 Schweigger on Squint, 12 SewiU's Dental Anatomy, 12 Sharkey's Spasm in Chronic Nerve Disease, 10 Shore's Elementary Practical Biology, 4 Sieveking's Life Assurance, 14 Simon's Public Health Reports, 4 Smith's (E.) Clinical Studies, 6 Diseases in Children, 6 Wasting Diseases of Infants and Children, 6 Smith's (J. Greig) Abdominal Surgery, 6 Smith's (Henry) Surgery of the Rectum, 14 Smith (Priestley) on Glaucoma, 12 Snow's Clinical Notes on Cancer, 13 Southam's Regional Surgery, 11 Squire's (P.) Companion to the Pharmacopoeia, 7 Pharmacopoeias of London Hospitals, 7 Squire's (\V.) Essays on Preventive Medicine, 3 Steavenson's Electricity. 11 Stille- and Maisch's National Dispensatory, 7 Stocken's Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 13 Sutton's General Pathology, 4 Swain's Surgical Emergencies, 10 Swayne's Obstetric Aphorisms, 6 Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence, 4 IN DEJ6— 1 on tin unit. 1 aylor s Poisons in relation to Medical Jurisprudence 4 Teale's Dangers to Health, 5 Thin's Cancerous Affections of the Skin, 13 Pathology and Treatment of Ringworm, Thomas's Diseases of Women, 6 Thompson's (Sir H.) Calculous Disease, 14 Diseases of the Prostate, 14 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 14 ■ Lithotomy and Lithotrity. 14 Stricture of the Urethra, 14 Suprapubic Operation, 14 Surgery of the Urinary Organs, 14 Tumours of the Bladder, 14 Thorowgood on Asthma, 8 on Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 7 Thudichum's Pathology of the Urine, 14 Tibbits' Medical and Surgical Electricity, 10 Map of Motor Points, 10 How to use a Galvanic Battery, 10 Electrical and Anatomical Demonstrations, ic Tilt's Change of Life, b Uterine Therapeutics, 6 Tirard's Prescriber's Pharmacopoeia, 7 Tomes' (C. S.) Dental Anatomy, 12 Tomes' (J. and C. S.) Dental Surgery, 12 Tuke's Influence of the Mind upon the Body, 5 Sleep-Walking and Hypnotism, 5 Vintras on the Mineral Waters, &c., of France, 10 Virchow's Post-mortem Examinations. 4 Walsham's Surgery: its Theory and Practice, 11 Waring's Indian Bazaar Medicines, 7 Practical Therapeutics, 7 Warlomont's Animal Vaccination, 13 Warner's Guide to Medical Case-Taking, 8 Waters' (A. T. H.) Diseases of the Chest, 8 Contributions to Medicine, 8 Weaver's Pulmonary Consumption, 8 Wells' (Spencer) Ovarian and Uterine Tumours, 6 West and Duncan's Diseases of Women, 6 West's (S.) How to Examine the Chest, 8 Whittaker's Primer on the Urine, 14 Wilks' Diseases of the Nervous System, 8 Williams' (Roger) Influence ot Sex, 4 Wilson's (Sir E.) Anatomists' Vade-Mecum, 3 Wilson's (G.) Handbook of Hygiene, 5 Healthy Life and Dwellings, 5 Wilson's (W. S.) Ocean as a Health-Resort, 10 Wolfe's Diseases and Injuries of the Eye, 11 Wolfenden and Martin's Pathological Anatomy, 12 Year Book of Pharmacy, 2 Yeo's (G. F.) Manual of Physiology, 4 Oil the The following CATALOGUES issued by J. & A. CHURCHILL will be forwarded post free on application :— A. J. cf A. Churchill's General List of about 650 works on Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Midwifery, Materia Medica, Medicine, Surgery, Chemistry, Botany,%., fc, with a complete Index to their Subjects, for easy reference. N.B.—This List includes B, C, & D. B. Selection from J. £ A. Churchill's General List, comprising all recent Works published by them on the Art and Science of Medicine. C. J ey A. Churchill's Catalogue of Text Books specially arranged for Students. D. A selected and descriptive List of J. A. Churchill's Works Chemistry, Materia Medica, Pharmacy, Botany, Photography, Zoology, Microscope, and other branches of Science. B. The Medical Intelligencer, being a List of New Works ■published by J. $ A. Churchill. , [Sent yearly to every Medical Practitioner in the United kingdom wtec « and address can be ascertained. A large number are also sent to the Lmted States of America, Continental Europe, India, and the Colonies. J America.—J. &■ A. Churchill being in constant commutation with various publishing houses in Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, are able, notwithstanding the absence of international copyright, to conduct negotiations favourable to English Authors. LONDON: 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. and New Editions Pardon <fc Sons, Printers,] {Wine Office Court, Fleet Street, E.C.