THE LEG AND ANKLE 59 posterior ligament of the ankle ; and, though most of its fibres encircle the tendon, some of them adhere to and draw in its sides. All this disappears when the tendon is laid bare by dissection. 141. Tendons behind inner ankle.—Above and behind the malleolus internus we can feel the broad flat tendon of the tibialis posticus and upon it that of the flexor longus digitorum. The tendon of the tibialis posticus lies nearest to the bone and comes well up in relief in adduction of the foot. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this edge is the best guide to it. Therefore in tenotomy the knife should be introduced first perpendicularly between the tendon and the bone, and then turned at right angles to cut the tendon. The tendon has a separate sheath and synovial membrane, which commences about one inch and a half above the apex of the malleolus, and is continued to its insertion into the tubercle of the scaphoid bone. The proper place, then, for division of the tendon is about two inches above the end of the malleolus. In a young and fat child, where the inner edge of the tibia cannot be distinctly felt, the best guide to the tendon is a point midway between the front and the back of the ankle. An incision in front of this point might injure the internal saphena vein ; behind this point, the posterior tibial artery. 142. Tendons behind outer ankle.—Behind the mal- leolus externus we feel the two peroneal (long and short) tendons. They lie close to the edge of the fibula, the short one nearer to the bone. In dividing these tendons, the knife should be introduced perpendicularly to the surface, and about two inches above the apex of the ankle, so as to be above the synovial sheaths of the tendons. 143. Tendons in front of ankle.—Over the front of the ankle, when the muscles are in action, we can see and feel, beginning on the inner side, the tendons of the tibialis anticus, the extensor longus pollicis, the extensor longus digitorum, and the peroneus tertius. They start up like cords when the foot is raised, and are kept in their proper relative position by strong pulleys formed by the anterior annular ligament. Of