74 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL The slight depression observable between the ball of the thumb and that of the little finger corresponds with the middle of the anterior annular ligament. 181. Palmar arterial arches.—In opening abscesses in the palm, it is important to bear in mind the position of the large arterial arches which lie beneath the palmar fascia. The line of the' superficial palmar arch crosses the palm about the junction of the upper with the lower two- thirds—that is, in the line of the thumb separated widely from the fingers. From this, the digital arteries run straight between the shafts of the metacarpal bones towards the clefts of the fingers. Incisions, therefore, to let out pus beneath the palmar fascia may safely be made in the lower two-thirds of the palm, provided they run in the direction of the middle line of the fingers. The deep palmar arch lies half an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial. 182. Digital arteries.—As the digital arteries run along the sides of the fingers, the incision to open a thecal abscess should be made strictly in their middle line. It should be made not over but between the joints, since the sheath is strongest and thickest over the shafts of the phalanges, and therefore more likely to produce strangulation of the enclosed tendons. 183. Metacarpal joint of thumb.—The joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium can be distinctly felt by tracing the dorsal surface of the bone upwards till we come to the prominence which indicates the joint at the bottom of the ' tabatiere anatomique ' (172). Sup- posing, however, there be much swelling, the knife introduced at the angle between the first and second metacarpal bones readily finds the joint if the blade be directed outwards. 184. Sesamoid bones.—The sesamoid bones of the thumb can be distinctly felt. Just above them—that is, nearer to the wrist—lies the joint between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx. We should remember the position of these bones in amputation at this joint. Mutatis mutandis the same observations apply to the sesamoid bones of the great toe.