6 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 11. Lines of cerebral sinuses.—A line drawn over the head from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance corresponds with the superior longitudinal sinus. Another line drawn from the occipital protuberance to the front border of the mastoid process corresponds with a part of the lateral sinus. 12. Middle mening eal artery.—The trunk of the middle meningeal artery runs along the front lower corner of the parietal bone, about one inch and a half behind, and half an inch above, the external angular process of the frontal. About this spot the squamous portion of the temporal bone, the great wing of the sphenoid, the frontal and the parietal join together : to the site of their junction the name ' pterion ' has been given by craniologists. An imaginary straight line drawn across from the front of one mastoid process to the other would pass through the middle of the condyles of the occiput, showing how nearly the skull is balanced on the top of the spine in the erect posture. 13. Thickness of skull-cap.—The average thickness of the cap of an adult skull is about } of an inch. The thickest part is at the occipital protuberance, where it is often f of an inch or more, even in an otherwise thin skull. The thinnest part is at the temple, where it may be almost as thin as parchment. Everyone in the habit of making post-mortem examinations knows how much the skull-cap differs in thickness in different persons and in different parts of the same skull. In old persons it is often in some parts not thicker than a shilling, owing to the absorption of the diploe. Another point of interest is that the inner plane of the cap is not always parallel with the outer. Hence, in applying the trephine, this is not a bad rule—' Think that you are operating on the thinnest skull ever seen, and thinner in one half of the circle than the other.' 14. Levels of the brain.—The level of the anterior lobes of the cerebrum in front corresponds with a straight line drawn across the forehead, just above the eyebrows, the lower level of the anterior and middle lobes corresponds with a line drawn from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the upper part of the meatus auditorius. Another line drawn