24 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 54. Internal mammary artery.—The line of the internal mammary artery runs perpendicularly behind the cartilages of the ribs, about half an inch from the sternum. The per- forating branch through the second intercostal space is gene- rally the largest. 55. Outline of heart on chest-wall.—To have a general idea of the form and position of the heart, map its outline on the wall of the chest, as follows :— a. To define the base—i.e. the part to which its great vessels are attached —draw a transverse line across the ster- num corresponding with the upper borders of the third costal cartilages ; continue the line half an inch to the right of the sternum and one inch to the left. b. To find the apex, mark a point about two inches below the left nipple, and one inch to its sternal side. This point will be between the fifth and sixth ribs. c. To find the lower border (which lies on the central tendon of the diaphragm), draw a line, slightly curved down- wards, from the apex across the bottom of the sternum (not the ensiform cartilage) as far as its right edge. d. To define the right border (formed by the right auricle), continue the last line upwards with an outward curve, so as to join the right end of the base. e. To define the left border (formed by the left ventricle), draw a line curving to the left, but not including the nipple, from the left end of the base to the apex. Such an outline (seen in the cut, page 25, with the angles rounded off) shows that the apex of the heart points down- wards and towards the left, the base a little upwards and to- wards the right; that the greater part of it lies in the left half of the chest, and that the only part which lies to the right of the sternum is the right auricle. A needle introduced in the third, the fourth, or the fifth right intercostal space close to the sternum would penetrate the lung and the right auricle. A needle passed through the second intercostal space, close to the right side of the sternum, would, after passing through the lung, enter the pericardium and the most promi- nent part of the bulge of the aorta.