55 THE KNEE the highest part of the trochlea for the patella : facts worth notice in performing excision of the knee. ' In reducing a dislocation of the hip, it is important to bear in mind that the inner aspect of the internal condyle in every position of the limb faces nearly in the direction of the head of the femur.' (119.) The tubercle on the outer side of the head of the tibia gives attachment to the broad and strong aponeurosis (tendon of the tensor fasciae), which, acting like a brace for the support of the pelvis, is well seen in emaciated persons down the outer side of the thigh. This tubercle indicates the level to which the condyles of the femur descend, and the lower level of the synovial membrane. The patella, in extension of the knee, is nearly all above the condyles ; in flexion, it lies in the inter-condyloid fossa (more on the external condyle), and thus protects the joint in kneeling. Its inner border is thicker and more prominent than the outer, which slopes down towards its condyle. 130. lag-amentum patellae.—The line of the ligamentum patella; is vertical. Hence any deviation from this line, one way or the other, indicates more or less dislocation of the tibia. There is a pellet of fat under the ligament, which answers a ' packing' purpose—sinking in when the knee is bent; rising when the knee is extended, and bulging- on either side of the tendon, almost enough to give the feel of fluctuation. In a well-formed leg the ligamentum patellae, the tubercle of the tibia, and the middle of the ankle should be in the same straight line. A useful point in the adjustment of fractures. Behind the upper half of the ligamentum patella; is the synovial membrane of the knee-joint ; behind the lower half is a synovial bursa and a pad of fat. It is well to remember this in cases of injury to the ligamentum patellae. 131. Patellar bursa.—The patellar or housemaid's bursa is situated not only over the patella, but over the upper part of the ligament. This is plain enough w hen the bursa be- comes enlarged. There is another subcutaneous bursa over