LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL It is important to know the position of the ' lineae trans- versa^' or tendinous intersections across the rectus abdominis. There are rarely any below the umbilicus, and generally three above it. The first is about the level of the umbilicus. The second is about four inches higher—that is, about the level of the lowest part of the tenth rib. These are the principal lines, and they divide the upper part of each rectus into two nearly quadrilateral portions, an upper and a lower: of these, those on the right side are a trifle larger than on the left. We see these muscular squares pretty plainly in some athletic subjects. Much more frequently we see them, too much exaggerated, on canvas and in marble. Artists are apt to ex- aggerate them, and make the front of the belly too much like a chess-board. It is lucky for artists that all critics do not see with anatomical eyes. A familiarity with the shape and position of these divisions of the rectus is of importance, lest we should, in ignorance, make a mistake in diagnosis. A spasmodic contraction of one of these divisions, particularly the upper, or a collection of matter within its sheath, has been frequently mistaken for deep-seated abdominal disease. In the erect position, the anterior superior spines of the ilia are a little below the level of the promontory of the sacrum. The bifurcation of the aorta is about the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. 78. Umbilicus.—The umbilicus is not midway between the ensiform cartilage and the pubes, but rather nearer to the pubes. In all cases it is situated above the centre of a man's height. It is a vulgar error to say that if a man lie with legs and arms outstretched, and a circle be drawn round him, the umbilicus would lie in the centre of it. This central point is in most persons just above the pubes. In very corpulent persons two deep transverse furrows run across the abdomen. One runs across the navel and com- pletely conceals it. The other is lower down, just above the fat of the pubes. In tapping the bladder above the pubes in such a case, the trochar should be introduced where this line intersects the linea alba. c