THE THIGH 5' 119. 'In reducing a dislocation of the hip by manipula- tion it is important to bear in mind that, in every position, the head of the femur faces nearly in the direction of the inner aspect of its internal condyle.'9 120. Compression of femoral artery. — The femoral artery can be felt beating and effectually compressed against the pubes about a point midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. How should the pressure be applied when the patient lies on the back ? In accordance with the slope of the bone—that is, with a slight inclination upwards. A want of attention to this point is the reason why so many fail when they undertake to stop the circulation through the femoral artery in an amputation, or to cure an aneurysm by digital compression. If the Italian tourniquet be used, we should be careful to adjust the counter-pad well under the tuberosity of the ischium. If digital pressure be used, it is easy to command the femoral by slight pressure of the thumb, provided the fingers have a firm hold on the great trochanter. 121. Sartorius.—The sartorius is the great fleshy land- mark of the thigh, as the biceps is of the arm, and the sterno-cleido-mastoideus of the neck. Its direction and borders may easily be traced by asking the patient to raise his leg, a movement which puts the muscle in action. The same action defines the boundaries Of the triangle (of Scarpa) formed by Poupart's ligament, the adductor longus and sartorius. 122. Line of femoral artery.—To define the course of the femoral artery, draw a line from midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the (spurlike) tubercle for the adductor magnus on the inner side of the knee. The femoral artery lies under the upper two-thirds of this line. The sartorius begins to cross the artery, as a rule, from three to four inches below Poupart's ligament. The point at which the profunda artery arises is about one and a half or two inches below the ligament. Therefore the incision for tying the femoral in Scarpa's triangle should commence about E 2