LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 36 linea alba all the way down to the pubes, when the bladder is empty. But when the bladder distends, it raises the peri- toneum from the middle line above the pubes ; so that with a bladder distended half-way up to the umbilicus, there is a space of nearly two inches above the symphysis where the bladder may be tapped without risk of injury to the peritoneum. For the same reason, we have space sufficient for the successful performance of the high operation for stone. This fact in anatomy must have been well understood by Jean de Dot, the smith at Amsterdam, who, in the seventeenth centuiy, cut himself in the linea alba above the pubes, and took out of his bladder a stone as large as a hen's egg. He lived for some years afterwards. The stone, the knife, and the portrait of the operator, may be seen to this day in the Museum at Leyden. 81. Division of aorta. Sliac arteries.—The aorta generally divides at a point one inch and a half below the umbilicus. A more reliable guide to this division than the umbilicus, is a point (a very little to the left) of the middle line about the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. A line drawn with a slight curve outwards from this point to the groin, where the pulsation of the common femo- ral can be distinctly felt (rather nearer to the pubes than the ilium), gives the direction of the common iliac and external iliac arteries. About the first two inches of this line belong to the common iliac, the remainder to the external. Slight pressure readily detects the pulsation of the external iliac above ' Poupart's ligament.' As a rule, the length of the common iliac is about two inches, but it should be remembered there are frequent devi- ations. It may be between three-quarters of an inch and three inches and a half long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain during life what is its length in a given instance, for there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the stature. It is often short in tall men, and vice i Anatomists generally describe the right as a trifle longer