38 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL about one full inch external to the spine, is the femoral ring. H ere is the seat of stricture in a femoral hernia. 86. Foupart's ligament, or crural arch.—The line of Poupart's ligament (crural arch) is in most persons indicated by a slight crescent-like furrow along the skin. It corre- sponds with a line drawn not straight, but with a gentle curve downwards from the spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes. With the help of the preceding landmarks it is easy to find the exact position of the external and internal ab- dominal rings, and the direction of the inguinal canal. 87. Abdominal ring's. — The external abdominal ring is situated immediately above the spine of the pubes. It is a semi-oval opening with the long axis directed obliquely downwards and inwards. Though its size varies a little in different persons, yet as a rule it will admit the end of the little finger, so that we can tell by examination whether it be free or otherwise. To ascertain this, the best way is to push up the thin skin of the scrotum before the finger ; then, by tracking the spermatic cord, the finger readily glides over the crest of the pubes and feels the sharp margins of the ring. The position of the internal ring is about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis of the pubes, and about two-thirds of an inch above Poupart's ligament. 88. Inguinal canal.—The position of the external and internal abdominal rings being ascertained, it is plain that the direction of the inguinal canal must be obliquely downwards and inwards, and that its length in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches, according as we include the openings or not. In very young children the canal is much shorter and less oblique, the inner ring being behind the outer. With the growth of the pelvis in its transverse direction, the anterior spines of the ilia become farther apart, and thus draw the internal ring more and more away from (i.e. to the outer side of) the external. An accurate knowledge of the relative positions of the abdominal rings and the inguinal canal is especially required in the diagnosis and treatment of hernial protrusions and the proper adjustment of trusses.