72 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL the motion of the tendons becomes painful and gives rise to a feeling of crepitus, called ' tenalgia crepitans ' by some writers. It is said to be met with sometimes in pianists. 175. Lines of arteries.—The course of the radial artery- corresponds with a line drawn from the outer border of the tendon of the biceps at the bend of the elbow down the front of the forearm to the front of the styloid process of the radius. In the upper third of its course the artery is overlapped by the supinator longus. To make allowance for this, the in- cision for the ligature of the artery in this situation should be made, not precisely in the line of its course, but rather nearer the middle of the forearm. The line of the ulnar artery runs from the middle of the bend of the elbow (slightly curving inwards) to the outer side of the pisiform bone. To tie this vessel, therefore, in the upper third of its course, the proper way is to make the in- cision in the line from the internal condyle to the pisiform bone. The artery can be found by separating the flexor sub- limis digitorum from the flexor carpi ulnaris. The radial and ulnar arteries can, in most cases, be effec- tually commanded by pressure well applied at the wrist, in wounds of the palmar arch. Before we make incisions along the forearm, it is always desirable to ascertain whether the ulnar artery, which usually runs under the superficial muscles, may not run abnormally over them ; in which case its pulsations can be felt all down the forearm. 176. Lines of median and ulnar nerves.—The median nerve in the forearm corresponds with a line drawn from the inner side of the tendon of the biceps at the elbow to the inner side of the tendon of the palmaris longus at the wrist, where it is covered only by fascia. The ulnar nerve in the forearm runs along a line drawn from the back of the internal condyle to the outer side of the pisiform bone. In the lower half of its course it joins the ulnar artery, and runs on the inner side of it over the anterior annular ligament.