THE FACE '5 but rarely exceeds a small inch in the vertical diameter, and a small half-inch in the transverse. The plug for the posterior nares should not be larger than this. Their plane is not perpendicular but slopes a little forwards. You can feel the septum formed by the vomer, and also the posterior end of the inferior spongy bone in each nostril. 32. Tonsils.—Before taking leave of the throat, look well at the position of the tonsils between the anterior and pos- terior half arches of the palate. In a healthy state they should not project beyond the level of these arches. In all operations upon the tonsils, we should remember the close proximity of the internal carotid artery to their outer side. Nothing intervenes but the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Hence the rule in operating on the tonsils, always to keep the point of the knife inwards. In troublesome haemorrhage from the tonsils, after an in- cision or removal, it is well to know that they are accessible to pressure if necessary by means of a padded stick, or even a finger. 33. Features.—A word or two on the lines of the face as indicative of expression. Everyone pays unconscious homage to the study of physiognomy when, scanning the features of a stranger, he draws conclusions concerning his intelligence, disposition, and character. Without discussing how much physiognomy is really worth, there can be no doubt that it is a mistake to place it in the same category as phrenology, since the latter lacks that sound basis of physiology which no one can deny to the former. A person fond of observing cannot fail to have arrived at the conclusion that a man's daily calling, not less than his daily habits, may be read in his face. Place a soldier, a sailor, a compositor, and a clergyman side by side, and who will not immediately detect a marked difference in their physiognomies ? The muscles of the features are generally described as arising from the bony fabric of the face, and inserted into the nose, the corners of the mouth, and the lips. But this