4 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL supra-orbital at the supra-orbital notch. The skin of the temporal region is supplied by the temporal branch of the temporo-malar and by the auriculo-temporal which ascends directly in front of the ear close to the temporal artery. At the back of the head are the small and great occipital nerves ; these supply sensation to the scalp over the occipital region. The motor nerves of the scalp are derived from the facial, whose temporal and posterior auricular branches ramify in front and behind the ear respectively. Thus, the corrugator supercilii and the occipito-frontalis, both muscles of expression, are associated through their nerve supply with the muscles of the face. 6. Skull-cap.—The skull-cap is rarely quite symmetrical. This want of symmetry is often obvious. It may occur in men highly gifted, as in the celebrated French anatomist Bichat. As to shape and relative dimensions, no two heads are exactly alike, any more than are two faces. It is beside my present purpose to go into the question of craniology more than to say that, although the cranium does not exactly follow the brain in all its eminences and depressions so as to be like a cast of its surface, yet it certainly indicates the dimensions of the great cerebral masses. The prominence of the frontal and parietal ' eminences' and of the occipital region may be taken as a general indication of the development of the corresponding lobes of the brain. To ascertain the relative proportions of these three regions, let a thread be passed from one meatus auditorius to the other, across the frontal, parietal,, and occipital eminences respectively. 7. Fontanelles In the head of a new-born child, owing to the not yet completed ossification of the skull-cap, there are six fontanelles, two on the top and two on each side of the head. Of all these, by far the most important practically is the anterior fontanelle, and for the following reasons :—1. It is the last to ossify, and as a rule is not quite closed till between the second and third year. 2. By its feel, whether abnormally bulging or sunken, we can tell if there be excess or diminution of fluid within the skull. 3. By the eye alone we can count here the pulse of a sleeping infant. \. By its lozenge shape