46 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL these cutaneous folds, especially towards the coccyx, we look for ' fissure of the anus.' 108. Landmarks in the rectum.-Many valuable land- marks may be felt by introducing the finger into the rectum with a catheter at the same time in the urethra. The prin- cipal of these landmarks are the following :— a. The finger can feel the extent and powerful grasp of the internal sphincter for about one inch up the bowel (107). b. urethra.—Through the front wall of the bowel the finger can most distinctly feel the membranous part of the urethra, exactly in the middle line. This is very important, because you can ascertain with precision whether the catheter has deviated from the proper track. c Prostate gland.—About an inch and a half or two inches from the anus, the finger comes upon the prostate gland The gland lies in close contact with the bowel, and can be detected by its shape and hard feel. The finger moved from side to side, can examine the size of its lateral lobes, their consistence and sensibility. d. The finger, introduced still farther, can reach beyond the prostate, as far as the apex of the trigone of the bladder. More than this, it can feel the angle between the < ductus communes ejaculatorii/ which forms the apex of the trigone. The centre of this trigone is the precise spot where the dis- tended bladder should be punctured through the rectum. The more distended the bladder, the easier can this spot be felt. Fluctuation is at once detected by a gentle tap on the bladder above the pubes (102). The trochar must be thrust in the direction of the axis of the distended bladder ; that is, rough y speaking, in a line drawn from the anus through the pelvis to the umbilicus. . . . e The fold of peritoneum, called the recto-vesical pouch, is about four inches from the anus, therefore it is not within each of the finger; and we run no risk of wounding .Mr, tapping the bladder if the trochar be introduced m the centre °f TxheTnger may, perhaps, fee. one of the prominent folds of mucous membrane-' Houston's folds '-which are s.tuatcd