28 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL artery will not be injured if the opening be made below the middle of the space, which is very wide.3 62. Effects of tight lacing-.—The landmarks of the chest described in the preceding paragraphs will be found fairly accurate if the chest be of natural shape and dimen- sions. But in some women this is not the case. Their habit of tight lacing gradually alters this shape and dimensions, and alters also the relative positions of the internal organs to the chest wall and to each other. Consider first the effects of this pressure on the bony framework-of the chest. Excluding the bones of the shoulders, the normal shape of the skeleton of the chest is, roughly speaking, conical, with the narrow part at the neck and the base below. (See cut, p. 25.) Now tight lacing not only hampers the mobility of the ribs, but narrows all the diame- ters of the lower part of the chest, presses downwards the lower ribs, and forces the waist lower down also ; a displace- ment just now the height of fashion. In many instances these ribs are forced down nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. The result is a narrowing of the ilio-costal space—in other words of the flank—necessary for freedom of motion, and a wasting of the great muscles which balance the trunk on each side, more especially of the quadrati lumborum. Consider next the effects of this unfair pressure upon the internal organs. One of the plainest results is a propor- tionate diminution of the room provided for the viscera of the chest and abdomen. It is hard to say which viscera suffer most from the restraint. It is certain that all of them are more or less pressed out of their natural position, and being cramped in the performance of their function, become the more liable to disease. The upward pressure tells upon the free circulation of the blood through the heart and lungs, and makes them pant on even slight exertion. The chief abdo- minal viscera, namely, the stomach, liver, and spleen, forced down from their position under cover of the ribs, are com- pelled to encroach upon the space reserved for the more moveable intestines. These again arc pressed down among the viscera in the pelvis. And in this region, the superin-