58 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL The shaft of the fibula arches backwards, the reverse of the shaft of the tibia. The fact of the bones not being on the same plane should be remembered in flap amputations. The shaft of the fibula is so buried amongst the muscles, that the only part to be distinctly felt*is the lower fourth. Here there is a flat triangular subcutaneous surface, between the peroneus tertius in front, and the two peronei (longus and brevis) behind. Here is the most frequent seat of fracture. 139. Malleoli.—The shape and relative position of the malleoli should be carefully studied, as the great landmarks of the ankle. The inner malleolus does not descend so low as the outer, and advances more to the front : at the same time, owing to its greater antero-posterior depth, it is on the same plane as the outer behind. The lower border of the inner malleolus is somewhat rounded, and the slight notch in it for the attachment of the lateral ligament can be felt. The outer malleolus descends lower than the inner, thus effectually locking the joint on the outer side. Its shape is not unlike the head of a serpent. Viewed in profile, it lies just in the middle of the joint. In Syme's amputation of the foot at the ankle, the line of the incision should run from the apex of the outer malleolus under the sole to the middle of the inner. In a well-formed leg, the inner edge of the patella, the inner ankle, and the inner side of the great toe, should be in the same vertical plane. Look to these landmarks in adjust- ing a fracture or dislocation, keeping at the same time an eye upon the conformation of the opposite limb. There are several strong tendons to be seen and felt about the ankle. 140. Tendo Actoillis.—Behind is the tendo Achillis. It forms a high relief, with a shallow gutter on each side of it. The narrowest part of the tendon, where it should be divided in tenotomy, is about the level of the inner ankle ; below this it expands again to be attached to the lower and back part of the os calcis. Seen in profile, the tendon is not straight, but slightly concave—being drawn in by an aponeurosis which forms a sort of girdle round it. This girdle proceeds from the