THE LEG AND ANKLE 57 in five instances. This should make us cautious in interfering too roughly with the bursa when enlarged. 135. Popliteal artery.—The popliteal artery can be felt beating and can be compressed through the fat which fills the popliteal space against the back of the femur, close to which it lies very deep. But pressure, sufficient to stop the blood) must be firm, and should be made against the bone nearer to the inner than the outer hamstrings. The line of the artery corresponds with the middle of the ham. It lies under cover of the fleshy belly of the semimembranosus, and the outer border of this muscle is the guide to it. An incision down the middle of the ham would fall in with the vessel just above the condyles. 136. Popliteal nerve. —This nerve runs down the middle of the popliteal space, superficial and a little external to the artery, from which it is separated by the popliteal vein. 137. Peroneal nerve.—The peroneal nerve runs parallel with and close to the inner border of the tendon of the biceps- It can be felt in thin persons. There is a risk of dividing it in tenotomy of the biceps, unless the knife be carefully intro- duced from within outwards. Below the knee the nerve can be felt close to the fibula just below the head, and when pressed upon in this situation causes a sensation to run down its branches to the foot. THE LEG AND ANKLE. 138. Bony points—The tubercle of the tibia (for the attachment of the ligamentum patellae), the sharp front edge called the shin, and the broad flat subcutaneous surface of the bone can be felt all the way down. The inner edge can be felt too, but not so plainly. The lower third is the narrowest part of the bone and the most frequent seat of fracture. The head of the fibula is a good landmark on the outer side of the leg, about one inch below the top of the tibia and nearly on a level with its tubercle. Observe that it is placed well back, and that it forms no part of the knee-joint proper, and takes no share in supporting the weight of the body.