THE NECK 17 the operation for ligature of the lingual artery, which runs parallel to its upper margin. The artery is overlapped by the submaxillary gland, and covered by the hyo-glossus muscle. 36. Thyroid cartilag-e.—The projection and depth of the notch in the thyroid cartilage, or ' pomum Adami,' varies in different persons. Between the notch and the hyoid bone there is a large bursa, which facilitates the play of the carti- lage beneath the bone in deglutition. The notch does not appear till puberty, and is throughout life much less distinct in the female than the male. The finger can trace the upper borders and cornua of the thyroid cartilage : its lower cornua can be felt by the side of the cricoid. On each side of the thyroid cartilage we can recognise the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland. On the upper and front part of the gland we can distinctly feel the pulsation of the superior thyroid artery. This pulsation, coupled with the fact that, the gland rises and falls with the larynx in de- glutition, gives the best means of distinguishing a bronchocele from other tumours resembling it. 37. Crico-thyroid membrane.—Below the angle of the thyroid cartilage we feel the interval between it and the cri- coid, which is occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. In laryngotomy we cut through this membrane transversely close to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage, in order that the incision may be as far as possible from the attachment of the vocal cords. 38. Cricoid cartilage.—The projection of the cricoid cartilage is a point of great interest to the surgeon, because it is his chief guide in opening the air-passages, and can always be felt even in infants, however young or fat. It corresponds to the interval between the fifth and sixth cer- vical vertebrae. The commencement of the oesophagus lies behind it : here, therefore, a foreign substance too large to be swallowed would probably lodge, and might be felt externally. Again, a transverse line drawn from the cricoid cartilage horizontally across the neck would pass over the spot where c