8 LANDMARKS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL articularis, and returns into its' socket when the mouth is shut. The muscle which causes this advance is the external pterygoid ; and it gives the jaw a greater freedom of grinding motion. The neck of the jaw can be felt through the mouth, a fact worth remembering under suspicion of fracture. The line of the lower jaw can be distinctly felt. The most frequent place of fracture is near the canine tooth, the deep socket of which tends to weaken the bone in this situation. The posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw corre- sponds with a line drawn from the condyle to the angle. In opening abscesses in the parotid region, the knife should not be introduced behind this line for fear of wounding the ex- ternal carotid artery. Punctures to any depth may be safely made in front of it. They are often necessary where inflam- mation of the parotid gland ensues after eruptive fevers, and runs on to suppuration. The swelling, tension, and pain are most distressing. Owing to the fibrous framework of the gland, the matter is not circumscribed, but diffused. One puncture is not enough. Three or more may be requisite. The blade of the knife should be held horizontally, so as to be less likely to injure the branches of the facial nerve. We are not to be disappointed if no pus flows. The punctures give relief, and pus will probably exude the next day. 19. Zygoma This prominent arch of bone lies in front of the ear. It forms an important characteristic in the ex- pression of the face ; is always perceptible to the touch, and in the lean and aged to the eye. 20. Parotid gland and duct.—The parotid gland may be felt, though not very distinctly, lying behind and on the ramus of the lower jaw, immediately in front of, and below the lobule of the ear. A line drawn from the middle of the lobule of the ear to midway between the nose and the mouth gives the course of the parotid duct. Opposite the second upper molar, the duct opens by a papilla into the mouth. The branch of the facial nerve which supplies the buccinator runs with the duct. 21. Seventh nerve or facial—The trunk of this nerve, after coming out at the stylo-mastoid foramen covered by