PATENT POTATO STEAMER. Received Honourahle Mention at the National Health Society^s Exhibition^ June, 1883. BOIUNG- STEAMING., OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. " From experimeutb made it is found that all sorts of Potatoes can be cooked with certainty and satisfaction in this steamer."—The Ironmonger. " Experience has proved that this Steariier is admirable in operation, and there is no class of Potatoes which cannot be successfully cooked by its means."—The Merchant. " The apparatus before vis simply and easily takes the place of experience, and the Potato has not yet been grown that cannot be cooked to perfection in it by the humblest culinary assistant."— Sanitriry Record. " We have tried this simple and useful invention. . . , Potatoes cooked in this way are certainly more pleasant to the taste; and, what is vastly more important, they are more digestible than when simply boiled."—HeaW/i (Edited by Dr. Andrew Wilson). " ^All sorts and conditions' of Potatoes have been cooked in it with invariable satisfactory results." -'The Caterer. "An invention which most assuredly meets, and that perfectly, an universal and daily want."— Building World. "By this invention there is an absolute certainty of their being well and thoroughly cooked, and being dished up in a proper condition. I have tested the Steamer myself, and am quite satisfied with the result of its action on both New and Old Potatoes."—BazckTr, Exchange and Mart. *' These and other obstacles have been successfully overcome by the new Potato Steamer represented in our woodcut."—Ofxssejrs Family Magazine. " It certainly does its work admirably, and appears to supply a want long felt by cooks and house- keepers."—Editor, Lady's Pictorial. TESTIMONIALS. Messrs. Bertram & Roberts write— " Gentlemen,—Bower's Potato Steamer (20 lbs.) I had of you answers admirably, and I can strongly recommend it." " W. H. OLIVER, ' Chef.'" Tlie following' unsolicited Testimonial is from the Editor of one of the leading" Illustrated London Papers. " Gentlemen,—A few weeks ago you kindly sent me one of your patent Potato Steamers which I acknowledged before I had had time to test its merits; it really is invaluable. It has fallen to my lot to have all sorts and kinds of potatoes and divers cooks of late, but they simply cannot help cooking the potatoes properly. I have never had them served up so uniformly well in my life, and hope that in a short time no family or restaurant may be without your Steamers. " Believe me to be," &c. We are authorised by the NATIONAL SCHOOL OF COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, to state that Bower's Potato Steamer has been thorovighly tested with the result that it fully accomplishes what is claimed for it, viz.—That any sort of potato can be cooked to perfection in it by even an unqualified person." SIZES:— 3lbs. 5/-; 4lbs. 6/-; 6lb8. 7/6 ; lOlbs. 15/-; 15lbs. 18/6 ; 20lbs. 23/6. To be obtained of any Ironmonger in town or country at the aboTe-mentiOned prices, and wholesale of the sole Manufacturers, GROOM d CO., Liquorpond Street, London. E.C.