SPONGY BONES AND THE MEATUSES. 237 but are confined to a part limited by two lines continued up- wards—one from the front and the other from the back of the hard palate. The upper spongy bone, F, is a process of the lateral mass of the os ethraoides ; and it occupies the posterior half of the interval before mentioned. The middle spongy bone, G, is also a process of the ethmoid, and forms the lower curved edge of the lateral mass of that bone : usually it reaches all across the space included by the two vertical lines. The inferior spongy bone, H, one of the facial bones, is larger than the others, and its length rather exceeds the limits of the space referred to. The spongy bones are thin and brittle; and as they are convex on the inner surface and concave on the outer, channels or mea- tuses exist between them and the wall to which they are attached. They are covered by the mucous membrane, and afford greater surface for the ramifications of the nerves and bloodvessels. The meatuses, Fig. i., are the lengthened spaces between the spongy bones and the outer wall; and they are the same in num- ber as those bones. Occasionally there is a rudiment of a fourth space above the rest, as in Fig. ii. The upper meatus, I, less deep and long than the others, com- municates with the posterior ethmoidal cells by an aperture or apertures at the fore part (Fig. ii.). The middle meatus, J, has several openings in it from hollows in the surrounding bones ; and in Fig. ii. the middle spongy bone is represented cut through to show the apertures. At the front of the meatus is an elongated eminence, N, of the ethmoid bone, with two grooves, one before and the other behind it: the anterior groove leads upwards into the frontal sinus, M, and the posterior opens into the anterior ethmoidal cells. Close above the lower part of the prominence referred to, and midway between the letters J and N, is the small round hole of the antrum masillarc. The inferior meatus, K, receives the ductus ad nasum; and to see this the lower spongy bone will require to be cut through in front. In the dried bone the canal for the tears has a wide funnel-