140 DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. Alterations affecting the artery. Commonly the arch of the vessel rises about an inch above the clavicle (Quain), but it may be lowered to the level of, or sink beneath the bone ; and on the other hand it may be elevated as high as one inch and a half 1 above the collar-bone. Occasionally the artery passes over or through the anterior scalenus, instead of beneath it. When the artery has either the higher level, or the more superficial position, it will be rendered less deep, and will be more easy to find in an operation. One or two branches for the shoulder, viz., posterior scapular and supra-scapular, may spring from this part of the artery. If such branch or branches should be seen in an operation, greater security against secondary haemorrhage would be obtained by tying one or both, than by leaving either free to convey blood into or from the trunk near the ligature. Alterations in the surrounding parts. With a thin and long neck and a flat clavicle, there is a prospect of a less tedious opera- tion than in the opposite states of those parts, because the artery will be nearer the surface. Muscular fibres may cover the artery as before said, p. 137, the clavicular attachments of the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius being lengthened, or the omo-hyoid arising from the clavicle. Also in axillary aneurism high in the arm-pit the clavicle may be carried upwards considerably above the level of the subclavian artery. Under these circumstances the operation of ligature would be made more difficult, as the artery must be sought behind the raised bone in the one case, and beneath the muscular fibres I in the other. The subclavian vein rises sometimes as high as the level of the clavicle ; and it has been found twice beneath the anterior scale- nus with the subclavian artery : both changes in its position would cause it to be more endangered in the steps of an opera- tion. The external jugular may be moved outwards from the sterno-mastoideus as far as the middle of the clavicle, so that its Mr. Qnain's researches on the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, in the work j before quoted.