CONNECTIONS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. fascia would be destroyed by the deeper dissection, these will be roticed below. I. Stylo-hyoideus. The stemo-cleido-mastoid muscle, B, incases somewhat the nar- rowed part of the neck by the elongation of its edges forwards land backwards. The anterior curved border is manifest in the Drawing, and it is kept in this position by a piece of fascia, ~N, prion is attached to the lower jaw. I The muscle covers the carotid bloodvessels as high as the iligastricus, and even when the head is thrown backwards. ' In the operation of tying the common carotid artery the muscle would have to be dissected back for some distance before the line )f the vessel is reached ; and pressure on the artery must be nade through the muscle. This fleshy covering gives protection jo the large vessels ; and these cannot be injured in wounds of :he neck unless the muscle is cut. Deep cervical fascia. The special fascia of the neck invests the jnuscles with sheaths. Most of it has been removed in cleaning :he muscles; but a strong process marked, N, has been left for :he purpose of showing its connection on the one hand with the iterno-mastoideus, and on the other with the angle of the lower jaw. The office of this piece is to keep curved the anterior border of the stemo-mastoideus, for as soon as it is cut the edge ;akes a straight direction, as in Plate xvii. CONNECTIONS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. | On each side there are three salivary glands in contact with the jower jaw. One is lodged behind the ramus and angle of the pone, and is named parotid: another is partly covered by the side >f the jaw—the submaxillary ; and the third, the sublingual, lies >eneath the front of the tongue. L Platysma myoides, cut. 3. Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. I Thyro-hyoideus. 3. Omo-hyoideus. 2. Sterno-hyoideus. f. Anterior belly of the digastric J. Hyoid bone. K. Submaxillary gland. L, Parotid gland. N. Process of the deep cervical toideus. f Lymphatic glands. fascia fixing the sterno-mas- muscle.