DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 236 the cavity to the pharynx for the purpose of conveying liquid food into the stomach. Blood escaping into the nasal cavity from rupture of the vessels of the mucous lining requires to be confined within the space when the loss of a fresh quantity may be injurious to health or endanger life. In closing the nasal fossa the posterior naris is stopped first by a plug inserted through the mouth in the follow- ing manner :—An elongated dossil of lint or cotton wool of the size of the opening is to have a piece of silk or small twine tied around the middle, so as to leave the ends about a foot long. Next, a bit of wire (not too stiff), with a noose at the end and rather curved downwards, is to be pushed along the floor of the nose and behind the soft palate until it can be seen through the open mouth. One of the string ends should be inserted through the noose with a pair of forceps, the other being retained in the left hand. By withdrawing the wire the string will be brought out through the nostril; and by means of that piece of string the plug can be dragged through the mouth, and round the soft palate with the aid of the left forefinger to the posterior naris. The two strings may be then tied between the nose and mouth. Finally to complete the closure of the nasal cavity the nostril is to have a plug inserted into it. When the surgeon considers the bleeding not likely to return the plugs are to be taken away. For the removal of the anterior one the proceeding is simple ; but the posterior has to be taken out through the mouth in this way :—The knot on the face being untied, the plug is to be dislodged from the posterior naris by pulling downwards and backwards with a forceps the string in the mouth ; and it is then to be conducted round the soft palate to the exterior of the body. SPONGY BONES AND THE MEATUSES. Three curved bones, Fig. i., project into the nasal cavity from the outer wall; they are named from their form spongy or turbi- nate ; and from their position, upper, middle, and lower. These osseous pieces do not extend the whole length of the outer wall,