NERVES IN THE POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 145 The great auricular nerve, 3, courses near the external jugular ^em to the lobe of the ear, and ends in the integuments of the linder and outer parts of the pinna. One offset joins the pos- erior auricular nerve, 14, and others are directed forwards to the nteguments over the parotid gland : some long slender branches bmi >ass through the parotid to join the facial nerve (Plate xvii<). The small occipital nerve, 4, lies along the posterior border of he sterno-mastoideus, and perforating the deep cervical fascia lear the head, ramifies in the scalp of the occipital region. The superficial cervical nerve, 5, is often represented by several mall nerves, as in the Drawing, and is therefore very variable in ts size : it is distributed to the platysma, and to the integuments f the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Descending tranches. The chief of these, two or three in lumber, belong to the teguments of the shoulder and the upper )art of the thorax; but some offsets are directed backwards to the nteguments over the trapezius muscle, from the clavicle nearly to he head. A large nerve, 6, divides into three :—one crosses the attach - nent of the sterno-mastoideus to the clavicle, another lies over he insertion of the trapezius into the same bone, and the third :rosses the middle of the clavicle; they extend two or three inches pelow the collar bone, the inner nerves reaching least far. Muscular offsets. Only a few of these are now visible. One, enters the levator anguli scapula?. Others, 9, pass beneath he trapezius supplying it ; and they join beneath that muscle vith the spinal accessory nerve, 13. Brachial plexus.—The lower four cervical nerves, and the first lorsal nerve (in part), give rise to the large bundles of nerves narked, 11 • but in the side view presented to the Artist the rrangement of the several nerves entering the plexus could not >e shown as in Plate xviii. The plexus extends under the clavicle to the axilla, where it erinmates in nerves for the upper limb ; and all the muscular ffsets in the neck come from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, vith the exception of small branches to the longus colli and the caleni.