184 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. it supplies chiefly the buccinator muscle as well as the integu- ments covering, and the mucous membrane lining the same. In the cheek it joins in a plexus, buccal, with the facial nerve (Plate xx., 8). Two masticatory muscles, viz., the external ptery- goid and the temporal, receive offsets from this branch. A branch to the pAerygoideus externus, 9, enters the under sur- face of that muscle. This smaller part of the inferior maxillary nerve contains portions of both roots ; these are disposed in a peculiar way, and give different functions to the branches. Thus the nerves fur- nished by it to the jaw muscles—masseter, temporal, and external pterygoid—are constrncted from both roots, like spinal nerves, and give sensibility and contractility to those muscles. The nerve to the buccinator on the contrary is formed altogether by the sensory root, and bestows only sensibility on the muscle and the other parts to which it is distributed. The larger piece of the inferior maxillary nerve ends in three, good-sized trunks, and gives a branch to the internal pterygoid muscle. i The auricula-temporal nerve, 1, beginning generally by two roots, is inclined backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle, an A ascends finally with the temporal artery to the integuments of theJ side of the head. It communicates largely with the facial nerve; and it supplies also the articulation of the jaw, the meatus of the ear, and the parotid gland. The inferior dental nerve, 2, descends over the pterygoideus internus and the internal lateral ligament to the dental foramen of the lower jaw, and is distributed to the teeth, and the lower part of the face. A small muscular branch, mylo-hyoid, arises from the nerve near the jaw, and runs in a groove in the bone to the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the mylo-hyoideus (Plate xvii.). The gustatory nerve, 3, is directed downwards to the front of the internal pterygoid muscle, near the attachment to the jaw: its further course in the tongue will be represented in Plate xxii. Under the external pterygoid muscle it is joined by the chorda tympani nerve, 6.