144 DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. Under some conditions air may enter the vein during the operation of bloodletting. As long as the blood runs freely, and the breathing is regular, the accident is not likely to happen : but if the breathing becomes laboured, or if the opening is not closed as soon as the flow of blood stops, air may be drawn into the vein. In suspended animation the external jugular is sometimes opened with the view of relieving the over-distended right side of the heart*; and this practice is founded on the tact that blood will enter the jugular below from the subclavian vein. At the same time the blood can flow downwards through the anterior jugular in the usual way (Plate xviiL), so as to relieve simulta- neously the congested heart and head. NERVES IN THE POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Parts of the cervical and brachial plexuses of nerves, with one cranial nerve—the spinal accessory, are included in the dissection. 1. Third cervical nerve. 2. Fourth cervical nerve. 3. Great auricular nerve. 4. Small occipital nerve. 5. Superficial cervical nerve. 6. Superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus. 7. Nerve to the rhomboideus. 8. Nerve to the serratus magnus. 9. Branches to the trapezius. 10. Nerve to the subclavius. 11. Upper part of the brachial plexus. 12. Supra-scapular nerve. 13. Spinal accessory nerve. 14. Posterior auricular nerve. f Nerve to the levator anguli sca- pulae from the cervical plexus. The cervical plexus is formed by the union of the upper four cervical nerves ; and it lies beneath the sterno-mastoideus, B, and on the levator anguli scapulae, E. Only the lower part of the plexus comes into the posterior triangular space, and from it spring muscular, and ascending and descending tegumentary branches. Ascending branches. These consist of the three following nerves, which are directed to the ear, the occiput, and the fore part of the neck. * A more general employment of this practice is recommended by Dr. Struthers, in a paper " On Jugular Venesection in Asphyxia." Edin. Med. Journal for November, 1856.