DISSECTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN REGION. 168 subclavian and innominate veins ; and crossing it at right angles is the internal jugular vein, r, with the vertebral vein beneath this. And in front of the artery though separated by muscles is the anterior jugular vein, v. The vagus nerve, 10, crosses over the artery inside the jugular vein, together with some branches of the sympathetic ; and the recurrent branch of the vagus, and the cord of the sympathetic, lie beneath it (Plate xxiv.). The second or middle part of the artery, the shortest and highest, is covered by the anterior scalenus, L, and the sterno-mastoideus, K ; and rests on the middle scalenus, N. No vein touches the artery in the second part, for the anterior scalenus intervenes between the subclavian vein and artery. Two arteries, transverse cervical, h, and supra-scapular, ?, lie near the line of the subclavian trunk, the former being rather above, and the latter below it. The lower cervical nerves are above the vessel between the scaleni; and the phrenic, 3, crosses it, but separated by the scalenus anticus. The outer or third part, b, is the most superficial, and descends over the first rib to the axillary space, crossing beneath the omo- hyoideus, D, the subclavius, C, and the clavicle. This part appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck (Plate xv.) : and its connections are described in p. 137. Into the concavity of the arch of the bloodvessel the bag of the pleura projects, for this membrane rises above the first rib, and comes in contact with the first and second parts of the subclavian artery : this connection of the serous membrane must be remem- bered when ligature of the second part of the artery is to be undertaken. Alterations affecting the arch have been dwelt on in p. 140. Number and position of the branches. Usually four branches arise from the artery in the following manner :—three are con- nected with the first part, and one with the second part; whilst no branch, as a rule, comes from the third part. Very commonly however (Quain) an offset (posterior scapular) of the branch, h, is attached to the last part of the subclavian trunk.