158 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. posterior belly of the digastricus, which retain their usual posi- tion, and on the extreme contraction of the other muscles. Supposing the os hyoides fixed by its depressors, the muscles used commonly as elevators of that bone will have a different action:—those attached to the jaw may then carry it downwards, so as to open the mouth ; and the lingual muscles can depress the tongue. ARTERIES OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. Only the carotid trunks and some branches of the external carotid artery are visible in front of the sterno-mastoideus. a. Common carotid artery. b. External carotid artery. c. Internal carotid artery. cl. Superior thyroid artery. e. Lingual artery. /. Facial artery. g. Occipital artery. h. Posterior auricular artery. I. Superficial temporal artery. n. Internal maxillary artery. x Spot for ligature of the com- mon carotid artery. The common carotid trunk, a, begins opposite the sterno-clavi- cular articulation, and ends at the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage by splitting into two—external and internal carotid. Its situation will be marked on the surface by a line from the inner end of the clavicle to a point midway between the jaw and the ear. Contained in a sheath of fascia with the jugular vein and the vagus nerve, it is covered throughout by muscles ; and it has the following connections with the contiguous parts :—Superficial to it, besides the teguments and the platysma, are the depressors of the hyoid bone and the sterno-mastoideus—the last muscle cover- ing it to the ending (Plate xvi.); and the others, only as high as the cricoid cartilage. Beneath the vessel is the spinal column. To its inner side lie the gullet and the air passage, with the thyroid body; and as the trachea swells out to form the larynx, necessarily the artery is carried farther from its fellow above than below. Along the outer side is a chain of lymphatic glands, which is liable to become enlarged. The internal jugular vein, p, is parallel to, and in close contact