« ] 194 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER MAX ILL ATI Y NERVE. ascends with a small artery to the lower eyelid and the orbicular muscle. Its facial or terminal branches join in a plexiform manner with branches of the facial nerve. It gives off the follow- ing branches:— Dental branches:—These are usually two in number, one at the back, and the other at the front of the maxilla. The posterior branch, 1, descends on the jaw, gradually j| f diminishing in size, and is received into a canal in the bone.. |] Most of its branches course through the bone to supply the grinding teeth, but one or two slender offsets are furnished to the gums and the buccinator muscle. The anterior branch, 8, is conducted by a bony canal in front of the antrum to the bicuspid and incisor teeth : it sends some filaments to the mucous lining of the nose, and joins the posterior branch. OrMtal and spheno-palatine branches :—Opposite the spheno maxillary fossa these remaining branches take origin. The orbital branch, 4 (temporo-malar), is a cutaneous nerve of the face and temple, and receives its designation from passing through the cavity of the orbit. In the dissection it was cut necessarily by the removal of the outer wall of the orbit. In its uninjured state the nerve can be traced into the orbit, where it \ splits into a temporal and a malar branch ; these issue to their iote destination through apertures in the malar bone. . cran The sphenopalatine branches, two in number, descend beneath the internal maxillary artery, and communicating with Meckel's ganglion in the spheno-maxillary fossa, supply the lining mem- brane of the nose and roof of the mouth ; the soft palate, and the tonsil; and the mucous lining of the pharynx near the aperture of the Eustachian tube. The upper maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve springs from the Gasserian ganglion without commixture with the motor root, and is solely a sensory nerve, like the first or ophthalmic trunk. To its influence is due the sensibility of a part of the face, of the teeth of the upper jaw, of the nose cavity, and of the roof of the mouth and the soft palate. Facial nerve.—This branch, of rather large size, which is . ill