DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 216 of two layers in the palate, which are separated by the levator palati and azygos uvula? muscles. The superficial thin layer, K, is close beneath the mucous membrane, and joins at the middle line the muscle of the other side. The deeper and stronger layer, L, unites with its fellow internally, whilst some of the upper fibres are fixed to the aponeu- rosis of the palate. Both layers meet at the outer border of the palate, and descend behind the tonsil in the fold, E, to be inserted mostly into the back of the thyroid cartilage, but a part blends in the pharynx with the upper constrictor. Acting from below the muscle will bring down the arch, R, and will approach the same to the uvula : it will also draw down and back the soft palate towards the pharynx. The soft palate from its position and its power of moving plays an important part in breathing, in the use of the blow-pipe, in swallowing, and in vomiting. In breathing with the mouth open the air may pass through both mouth and nose, or only through the nose, according to the position of the moveable palate. When the air obtains ingress and egress through both cavities at the same time the velum hangs vertically, as in the Drawing, and leaves a space between it and the tongue. When , the air is transmitted only through the nose, the palate is applied to the back of the tongue, and shuts off the channel of the mouth. During the use of a blow-pipe the mouth is first filled with air, and the soft palate is then applied to the back of the tongue to close the mouth behind, whilst the cheek-muscles force out from the oral space through the lips a continuous current of air. At intervals, however, the palate is raised temporarily during expiration for the purpose of refilling with air the cavity of the mouth. In deglutition the soft palate directs the aliment into its down- ward channel. As soon as the morsel to be swallowed has reached the back of the tongue the moveable palate is raised, and is arched over it so as to prevent its taking an upward direction towards the nose. The depressor muscles contracting at the same time keep the flap fixed, and prevent its retroversion ; and as the