150 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. The parotid is the largest of the salivary glands. It is placed between the jaw in front, and the ear with the mastoid process and the sterno-inastoideus behind ; and it projects downwards beyond the level of the jaw, where the process, N, of the cervical fascia separates it from the submaxillary gland. Towards the surface the gland is flat, and is covered by the deep cervical fascia : on it rest one or more lymphatic glands. Its deep part is very irregular in form, and sends downwards prolongations around the styloid process. Several vessels and nerves pass through the substance of the parotid, and the position of these may be studied in Plate xvii. The external carotid artery, l, ascends through the gland giving off the auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches. The external jugular vein, r, begins by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary branches, and passes downwards superficially to the carotid. The facial nerve, 4, traverses the gland from behind forwards, over the artery, and is joined by offsets of the j great auricular nerve. Close to the ear the cutaneous part, 11, of the auriculo-temporal nerve is directed upwards by the side of the temporal artery. The excretory duct of the gland (ductus Stenonis) leaves the I fore part, and piercing the buccinator muscle, opens into the ' mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw (Plate xx.). In enlargement of this gland the swelling will project down* I wards at first towards the deep vessels and nerves in front of the spine, and then into the neck along the sterno-mastoideus ; but j extension towards the surface will be delayed by the strong fascia | binding it down, Much pain will attend the swelling of the gland in " mumps " and other affections, just as in all inflamed glandular parts that are prevented expanding by the firmness of the incasing sheaths. The swelling and abscesses in front of the ear in scrofulous children are occasioned by inflammation of the lymphatic glands on the surface of the parotid. The submaxillary gland, K, is not surrounded by such unyield^ I ing structures as the parotid ; for, though concealed somewhat by I