143 SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE NECK. and an anterior. Only the lateral vein and its branches appear in the Drawing : the other is figured in Plate xvi. The external jugular vein, Jc, conveys blood from the head to the subclavian vein, and gathers blood also from the superficial parts of the neck. It begins in the parotid gland by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins (Plate xvii.); and becoming superficial, it descends beneath the platysma muscle, A, to the lower part of the neck, where it sinks through the fascia and ends | in the subclavian vein (Plate xviii.). Its common position in the I neck would be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the I middle of the clavicle, though in the Plate it is placed internal to j that line. At the upper part of the neck the vein is small in size, receiving only few branches, but for an inch and a half at the lower end, it is dilated behind the sterno-mastoid muscle : here it receives j veins from the shoulder, viz. the transverse cervical, I, the supra- j' scapular, n, and some cutaneous veins—one being marked with o. I A pair of valves exists both above and below the lower dilata- | tion. The lower pair is close to the clavicle, and is less complete j than the other, for it allows blood to pass in a reflex course from I the subclavian vein. The upper pair is found just after the vein | crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, and acts perfectly, as it permits the blood to flow only in one direction—from above down. Bloodletting in the external jugular vein, is seldom had recourse to now, but the steps of the operation are the following :—The downward current of the blood is stopped by pressure of the j thumb near the clavicle. A cut is then made obliquely upwards j and b ackwards across the vein, to incise the vessel and the fibres ' of the platysma to the necessary extent. As long as the pressure on the vein remains the blood issues through the opening, but when the thumb is removed the flow stops, because the blood finds its way by the usual channel into the subclavian. After the operation is finished the wound is to be closed by adhesive Jc. External jugular vein. I. Transverse cervical vein. ii. Supra-scapular vein. o. A subcutaneous vein. plaster.