200 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 12. Upper cervical ganglion. 13. Middle cervical ganglion. 14. Lower cervical ganglion. 15. Middle cardiac nerve. spinal nerves. 10. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 11. Cord of the sympathetic 1. Glosso-pharyngoal nerve. 2. Vagus nerve. 3. Upper laryngeal nerve. 4. External laryngeal nerve. 5. Pharyngeal branch. 6. Spinal accessory nerve. 7. Hypoglossal nerve. 8. Descendens noni branch. 9. Communicating branch from the nerve. 10. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. First cervical nerve (loop of the atlas). Second cervical nerve. Third cervical nerve. Fourth cervical nerve. Phrenic nerve. Fifth cervical nerve. Sixth cervical nerve. Seventh cervical nerve. Eighth cervical nerve. Supra-scapular nerve. Carotid branches of the sym- pathetic. Upper maxillary nerve. Optic nerve. Cardiac branches of the vagus in the neck. The glossopharyngeal or ninth cranial nerve, 1, leaves the skull by the jugular foramen, and courses to the pharynx over the carotid artery; passing then beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, Q, it ends in terminal branches for the tongue. In the foramen of exit the nerve possesses two small ganglia, and furnishes a branch (Jacobson's nerve) to the tympanum. Its branches beyond the cranium are the following :— As it crosses the carotid artery some fine filaments descend on the vessel, and join the sympathetic and the pharyngeal branch, 5, of the vagus. Muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus and the upper two constrictors ; and at the side of the pharynx it joins in a plexus (pharyngeal) with offsets of the sympathetic and of the pharyngeal branch of the vagus. Numerous offsets are distributed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx opposite the opening of the mouth. The nerve is chiefly sensory in its function, and it confers on a part of the tongue the faculty of tasting as before said (p. 190); but as the stylo-pharyngeus muscle is supplied altogether by it some motor influence must be obtained from it. By means of its branches to the lining of the pharynx impressions produced by the presence of food are conveyed to the sensorium. The pneumo-gastric, vagus, or tenth cranial nerve, 2, issues from