223 THE VOCAL APPARATUS. INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX AND THE VOCAL APPARATUS. The larynx or the dilated upper part of the windpipe is wider above than below; and the space enclosed within the cartilages varies in form and size at different points. As a whole the larynx measures about one inch and a half from above down, one inch and a quarter across at the top, and about an inch across at the lower part. The laryngeal cavity (Fig. iii.) communicates above with the pharynx by the epiglottid aperture, and below with the trachea. By means of muscles and the mucous membrane the space inside the thyroid cartilage decreases in width from the epiglottis to the level of the vocal cords, 0, where only a narrow fissure—the glottis, remains; but just above the vocal cord is a dilatation on each side, Q, which is named the ventricle of the larynx. Beyond the vocal cords the space enlarges to the size of the cricoid cartilage, and becomes circular. Its shape is something like an hour-glass, the glottis, R, corresponding with the narrowest part of that instrument. Vocal apparatus. Under this general term may be included the vocal cords, with the chink or interval between them; and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. The vocal cords are two whitish bands on each side, which shine through the mucous membrane, and lie above and below the ven- tricular space, Q. Both are stretched between the thyroid car- tilage in front, and the arytenoid behind. The upper band, P, or the false vocal cord, forms a curve with the convexity upwards. In front it is fixed to the thyroid carti- lage slightly above the middle ; and behind to the outer part of the arytsenoid. It consists of a bundle of white fibrous tissue, which is covered by the mucous membrane. The use of this band is unknown. The voice is not produced by it, for it is removed so far from the centre of the laryngeal space as to be out of reach of the direct current of air. The lower or true cord, 0, Fig. ii., is stronger than the other, and is horizontal in direction. It is inserted in front into the