212 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. this way :—as soon as the food has been moved backwards by the tongue to the isthmus, the lateral arches are shortened and moved inwards by the contraction of their contained muscular fibres, and shut off with the tongue the cavity of the mouth. Upper aperture of the larynx, V.-—This is a-single opening, and occupies the middle line just below the mouth. Wide before and narrow behind it is sloped down and back ; it extends upwards rather above the hyoid bone, and downwards to the bottom of the central notch in the front of the thyroid cartilage. In front it is bounded by the wide expanded part of the epiglottis, T; and be- hind by the tips of the cornicula laryngis, and by the arytasnoi- deus muscle and the mucous membrane. Laterally it is limited by a fold of mucous membrane (arytseno-epiglottic! ean) which stretches from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilage, and con- tains the depressor muscle of the epiglottis. Through this hole the air is inspired and expired in breathing ; and during the respiratory act the space remains open with the epiglottis raised. When deglutition is about to take place the larynx is moved upwards and forwards under the hyoid bone and the tongue, and the epiglottis is partly lowered ; and during swallowing the epi- glottis is placed over the orifice, so as to close it from the passing food or drink, whilst the muscular fibres on the sides and back of the opening contract, and give increased security against the entrance of the aliment into the windpipe. Even when the epiglottis is absent the food does not find its way into the air passage, because the upper part is sufficiently closed by the elevation of the larynx, and by the contraction of the muscular fibres around the upper opening and on each side of the passage lower down. If an attempt is made to take breath during, or too soon after a long draught, some of the fluid is drawn with the air under the partially-raised valve, and produces violent cough- ing by irritation of the larynx. The aperture of the oesophagus, W, terminates inferiorly the cavity of the pharynx, and is placed opposite the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage : it is circular in form, and is surrounded by the fibres of the lower constrictor.