210 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. for the air and food, but the upper part transmits air exclusively, and the lower part conveys only food. These three portions, dif- fering thus in their use, have the following limits :—the upper reaches as low as the opening of the mouth, M, and communicates with the cavities of the nose and tympanum ; the middle region extends from the mouth to the aperture of the larynx V ; and the third portion lies beyond the larynx, and is continuous below with the oesophagus W. Along the front of the pharynx are seven openings. A. Tube of the oesophagus. B. Pharynx cut, and reflected. C. Inner part of pharynx covered by mucous membrane. D. Septum nasi. E. Lower spongy bone. F. Eustachian tube. I. Buccinator muscle. K. Soft palate. M. Roof of the mouth. N. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle. The Eustachian tube, F, one on each side, lies close to the base of the skull; on the right side the mucous membrane has been removed from the lower end. Its extremity in the pharynx is cartilaginous and membranous, and is dilatable; but the upper part is osseous, and is contained in the temporal bone. At its lower end the cartilage is enlarged, but more at the inner than the outer side, and gives to the tube a funnel-shaped opening. The pharyngeal aperture is oval from before back, and is placed close behind the internal pterygoid plate, to which the tube is united by fibrous tissue higher up ; it is on a level with the in- ferior meatus,—the upper part of the opening reaching as high as the upper border of the lower spongy bone. This tube leads from the pharynx to the middle ear or tympa- num ; it transmits air to the ear cavity, and allows the mucus of that space to escape through it. Ordinarily the lower end is closed, and the air is shut in the tympanum, but the pharyngeal opening can be rendered patent by the action of the palate muscles, so as to permit the passage of air. An instrument can be passed into it through the nose for the purpose of 0. The uvula. P. Anterior pillar of the palate. Q. The tonsil. R. Posterior pillar of the palate. S. The tongue. T. The epiglottis. V. Upper opening of the larynx. W. Opening of the oesophagus. X. Internal pterygoid muscle. Z. Mylo-hyoid muscle.