DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 202 the air and food passages, and bestows sensibility on the mucous membrane and contractility on the muscular structure ; but the contraction of the muscles supplied not being placed under the control of the will (except those of voice), the nerve resembles more the sympathetic than the other motor cranial nerves. From the partial mixing of its motor and sensory nerve fibres the branches in the neck have different functions. Experiments seem to determine that the pharyngeal branch is a motor nerve ; the superior laryngeal, chiefly sensory ; and the recurrent laryngeal a motor nerve of the muscles of the larynx, but involuntary motory, and sensory to the muscular fibres in the trachea. The small cardiac branches are probably involuntary motory, and sensory in function like those to the lung. The spinal accessory or eleventh cranial nerve, 6, comes out of the skull by the foramen jugulare, and communicates in that aperture with the vagus by means of an accessory piece. Beyond the foramen the nerve is directed downwards and backwards to the sterno-mastoideus, which it pierces, and to the Trapezius muscle (Plate xv. p. 146). It joins freely with branches of the cervical plexus, and supplies with them the two muscles named. This nerve resembles a spinal nerve in arising from the spinal cord, and in being moto-sensory in function ; and this double function is not altogether dependent upon its union with the spinal nerves, for it alone may supply the sterno-mastoideus. The hypoglossal, or twelfth cranial nerve, 7, leaves the skull by the anterior condyloid foramen, and turning over the vagus, with which it is inseparably united, descends as low as the digastric muscle before it is directed forwards to the tongue. No offset is distributed from the first part of the nerve, though it joins the vagus, the sympathetic, and the first spinal nerve ; but many muscular branches arise from the last part of the hypoglossal, as may be seen in Plate xxiii. It is supposed to be altogether a motor nerve at its origin ; and it is thought that any sensory influence possessed by it is derived from its junction with other nerves near the skull.