DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 228 The thyro-arytcenoideus muscle, P, lies outside the vocal cord of the same side, to which it is closely united. Anteriorly it arises from the lower half (in depth) of the thyroid cartilage, and from the contiguous crico-thyroid membrane; and it is inserted behind into the base and outer surface of the arytenoid cartilage. Its inner and lower fibres are transverse, but the outer ascend and join the depressor of the epiglottis, 0. Through the action of this muscle the arytaenoid will be drawn forwards towards the thyroid cartilage, and the vocal cord of the same side will be relaxed, as when deep or grave sounds are pro- duced. The muscle is supposed (Willis) to have the power of placing the inner vibrating edge of the vocal cord parallel to its fellow. The crico-thyroid muscle, Y, can be seen entire in Plate xxiv. Placed on the front of the larynx, it arises from the side and fore part of the cricoid cartilage ; and it is inserted into the inferior cornu, and the lower border of the thyroid cartilage nearly to the middle line. Supposing the attachment to the cricoid cartilage to be the fixed point, the muscles of opposite sides will bring down the thyroid cartilage in front. By this movement the interval be- tween the arytaenoid and thyroid cartilages is increased, and con- sequently the vocal cords are tightened, and put into the state necessary for the production of a high note. If the thyroid is supposed the fixed point, the front of the cricoid will be raised, whilst the back of the same with the arytaenoid cartilages will be lowered, and the vocal cords will be likewise stretched. The depressor of the epiglottis, 0, (thyro-arytaeno-epiglottideus) is a thin and indistinct layer of muscular fibres, which is con- tained in the arytaeno-epiglottid fold, U, and consists usually of two parts. The chief bundle of fibres comes from the top of the arytaenoid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-arytae- noideus and arytaenoideus muscles; and the other slip is attached to the thyroid cartilage near the insertion of the epiglottis. The fibres of the muscle ascend on the side of the opening of the larynx, and are inserted into the margin of the epiglottis. The lower fibres of the muscle cross the top of the sacculus