THE VAGUS NERVE. 201 the skull by the foramen jugulare. In the aperture of exit it has a ganglion (gang, of the root) ; and it gives a branch to the ear, like the glosso-pharyngeal. Beyond the skull it is continued through the neck to the thorax, lying in the carotid sheath between the artery and the jugular vein; and as it leaves the neck on the right side it crosses the subclavian artery. Near the skull it is marked by a long fusiform ganglion (gang, of the trunk), which is united with the hypoglossal nerve, 7. In the neck the nerve supplies the undermentioned branches to the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. The pharyngeal branch, 5, begins in the ganglion, and crosses over (sometimes under) the internal carotid, to reach the pharynx. After being joined by offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal, it com- municates with the sympathetic and the superior laryngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus: it ends in the constrictor muscles. The upper laryngeal nerve, 3, arises also from the ganglion, and courses under the carotid to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage : here it pierces with an artery the thyro-hyoid ligament, and is distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. See Plate of the larynx. Under the carotid it joins largely with the sympathetic nerve ; and it furnishes the external laryngeal nerve, 4, which supplies the inferior constrictor, and ends in the crico-thyroideus muscle (Plate xxv.). Cardiac oranches, f f. One springs from the nerve trunk at the lower, and one or two at the upper part of the neck : they join branches of the sympathetic. In this dissection the upper communicated with the descendens noni nerve. Recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, 10. On the right side this nerve arises as the vagus enters the thorax, and winding round the subclavian artery, runs back to the larynx : it is dis- tributed chiefly to the laryngeal muscles. See Plate xxvii. On the left side the nerve begins in the thorax opposite the arch of the aorta, round which it makes a loop to come back to the larynx. In the neck the pneumo-gastric nerve ramifies in the walls of