139 ARTERIES IN THE TRIANGULAR SPACE. Superficial to the artery are the common coverings of the space, , iz., the skin, the cutaneous^afwfth the platysma^Mul&S ft&p^ ascia; and as it is about to pass under the clavicle'and the sub- 3lavius the supra-scapular artery and vein cross in front. Under- leath the vessel lie the middle scalenus, F, and the first rib. Its companion vein, subclavian, is arched like the artery (Plate ivin.), but it is placed lower in the neck, and beneath the clavicle, ossing the artery near the scalenus is the exte^njJJji^iilaiLViiin, whose branches may form a plexus over it. The nerves of the brachial plexus, 11, lie above the artery near the scalenus anticus, and gradually approach it below, so that, at the clavicle, the trunk formed by the last cervical and first dorsal touches the vessel, and may be mistaken for it in the operation of tying the subclavian. A small branch, 10, to the subclavius muscle is directed across the artery. Superficial to the clavicular space are the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, which will be cut in the operation for ligature. Offsets of the artery. As a rule this part of the subclavian trunk does not furnish any named branch. A cutaneous offset, d, took origin from the vessel in this body, but it springs com- monly from the supra-scapular artery b, near the external jugular vein. Compression of the artery. As the subclavian artery is un- covered by muscle whilst it crosses the triangular space, it may be compressed at the lower part of the neck during life. Its posi- tion is marked on the surface by the most prominent part of the clavicle ; and if the thumb is pressed firmly downwards and back- wards behind that point of the bone towards the first rib, the circulation in the vessel may be stopped. Sometimes the top of a key padded may be used more advantageously than the thumb. Ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery is prac- tised commonly for aneurism of the axillary trunk ; and as this operation may be rendered more difficult by the unusual posi- tion of the subclavian vessels, and by unusual states of the surrounding parts, the conditions complicating it will be first reviewed.* * The summary here made has been derived from the facts made known by