154 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. the narrow firm line of the hyoid bone, which is marked J, in the preceding Plate. A finger's breadth below that bone the promi- nence of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx (pomum Adami) is met with. Still lower, about half an inch, comes the firm cricoid or ring cartilage of the larynx,—a prominence less than the former; and between the two is a slight hollow, opposite the crico-thyroid membrane, through which the knife is sunk in the operation of laryngotomy. From this point to the sternum the tube of the windpipe and the thyroid body carry forwards the muscles: the former can be recognised by the finger. Behind the os hyoides and the larynx and trachea lies the pha- rynx with the oesophagus. Position of arteries. Opposite the level of the cricoid cartilage the large trunk of the common carotid, a, escapes from beneath the depressor muscles "of the hyoid bone. In company with the internal jugular vein it lies between the pharynx and the spine, and ascends under cover of the sterno-mastoideus, A, to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it splits into the external carotid, b, and internal carotid, c. From the point 'of division these two arteries are continued in the direction of the parent trunk to the interval between the ear and the jaw, and they end in the following way:—one (external) is consumed in offsets out- side the cavity of the skull; and the other (internal) is distributed chiefly to the brain, without furnishing branches to the neck. Neither vessel is visible till after the sterno-mastoideus has been displaced. See Plate xvi. Position of veins. By the side of the common carotid artery is the internal jugular vein, p; and it is continued to the base of the skull along the internal carotid trunk. In the upper narrowed part of the space between the jaw and the ear the external jugular vein begins; but it then runs downwards over the sterno-mas- toideus. Near the middle line of the neck the anterior jugular vein, s, descends (Plate xvi.); and it passes beneath the sterno- mastoideus at the lower part of the neck. Position of nerves. Many nerve trunks lie in contact with the great bloodvessels, and most of them accompany those vessels to the base of the skull.