THE SOFT PALATE AND THE TONSIL. 213 THE SOFT PALATE AND THE TONSIL. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) forms the loose and moveable part of the roof of the mouth, and depends between the nose and mouth cavities. In a state of rest it hangs like a curtain behind the mouth; but it can be moved backwards by muscles to the wall of the pharynx, so as to act like a valve in separating the upper from the middle region of the pharynx. It is attached above by an aponeurosis to the back of the hard palate ; and it is constructed chiefly of muscles covered by mucous membrane. Laterally it is blended with the sides of the pharynx. At the lower edge it is free ; and from its centre hangs a rounded elongated part, the uvula, 0 ; whilst on each side two folds, the arches of the soft palate, are continued downwards from it. The arches of the half of the soft palate, P and K, begin above, near the middle of the velum, and descend on the sides of the tonsil, Q, diverging from each other. The anterior, P, is con- tinued in front of the tonsil to the side of the tongue near the base ; and the posterior is directed behind the tonsil to the back of the pharynx. Each consists of a fold of mucous membrane enclosing muscular fibres: in the anterior fold is the palato- glossus muscle, and in the posterior lies the palato-pharyngeus. Tonsil, Q. This body is an aggregate of ten to twenty follicular glands, like those over the root of the tongue (Kolliker), and it occupies the interval between the arches of the palate. Its size varies much. Its situation is marked by the presence of small holes in the mucous membrane, without any surface-prominence; but when enlarged from disease it projects, diminishing thus the size of the isthmus of the fauces, and forms a swelling which may be felt externally near the angle of the jaw. In its structure it resembles the follicular glands. In the bottom of the holes or depressions on the surface of the mucous membrane, are smaller apertures leading into recesses or follicles; these recesses are lined by mucous membrane, and are set round with closed capsules filled with a grayish fluid, and containing