DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. 142 be depressed so as to make the point with the thread turn under J the vessel. Arterial branches. The smaller arteries laid bare in the dissec- tion are derived from two arterial trunks. Behind the sterno- mastoideus they are offsets of the subclavian or limb artery; and the branches in front of the muscle, or piercing it (except the lowest), spring from the carotid or neck artery. The supra-scapular artery, b, comes from the first part of the subclavian trunk, and runs behind the clavicle with its vein to the upper border of the scapula : it ends on the dorsum of that bone. An offset from the supra-scapular to the integuments arises near the sterno-mastoid : in this instance it comes from the third part of the subclavian, and is marked d. Transverse cervical artery, c. It arises in common with the preceding, and crossing the side of the neck above the arch of the subclavian artery, courses beneath the trapezius : here it furnishes a large branch (superficial cervical), and bends finally along the i base of the scapula with the name posterior scapular, and supplies the muscles inserted into the vertebral border of that bone. In the posterior triangle it gives many branches to the levator anguli scapulae, and to the lymphatic glands and the fat. Two small arteries, e and /, are offsets of the ascending cervical artery (a branch of the subclavian) : they are distributed to the j muscles on the side of the neck, and to the areolar tissue and the i glands of the triangular space. The posterior auricular artery, g, issues in front of the sterno- mastoideus, and ascends to the back of the ear and the contiguous part of the head. A cutaneous offset, h, courses over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and accompanies the small occipital nerve. Perforating branches. After piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle these small arteries supply the platysma and the teguments. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE NECK. In the neck there are two superficial or jugular veins, a lateral