ELEVATOR MUSCLES OF THE OS HYOTDES. 157 inserted into the body or the great cornu of the os hyoides, join- ing the aponeurosis of the digastricus. The digastric muscle consists of two fleshy parts with an inter- mediate tendon. The posterior belly, R, is fixed to the groove beneath the mas- toid process of the temporal bone; and the anterior, H, is attached to the jaw close to the symphysis. Below, the muscle is connected to the surface of the body of the hyoid bone by a thin aponeurosis, which joins the anterior belly and the fore part of the tendon.* The digastric encloses with the jaw a space in which the two superficial salivary glands are lodged. And the posterior belly marks the spot at which the carotid bloodvessels become deep and inaccessible: the position of this part of the muscle corresponds with a line on the surface from the mastoid process to a point half an inch above the hyoid bone. The mylo-hyoid muscle descends from the jaw-bone to the body of the os hyoides: it lies beneath the anterior belly of the digastric, and in Plate xxii., where it is reflected, it may be seen to join its fellow along the middle line of the neck. The genio-byoideus is beneath the preceding. Plate xxii. shows it in position, reaching from the jaw to the hyoid bone. Two tongue muscles—hyo and genio-glossus—may act as ele- vators of the hyoid bone: the hyo-glossus is marked with N in the Figure, and both are displayed fully in Plate xxii. Actio?i of the elevators. With the mouth shut and the tongue fixed against the roof, the muscles will assist in preparing the pharynx for the reception of the food, by drawing upwards and forwards the os hyoides, so as to bring the larynx under shelter of the tongue. But if the mouth is open and the tongue not in contact with the roof, the muscles are deprived of their usual point of support above, and swallowing will be performed with difficulty; —the necessary elevation of the hyoid bone in this imperfect deglutition being then dependent upon the stylo-hyoideus and * There are great variations with respect to this attachment and the state of the stylo-hyoideus muscle : some of these may be perceived in the different Plates.