190 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. tip of the tongue, gradually decreasing in size by the supply of offsets. On the hyo-glossus it furnishes branches to three extrinsic tongue muscles—the hyo, stylo, and genio-glossus; and to one elevator of the hyoid bone—genio-hyoideus. It joins the gus- tatory nerve, 5, by means of the loop, 7. The glossopharyngeal nerve, 1 (ninth cranial), taking the course of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle (Plate xxiv.), enters be- neath the hyo-glossus to reach the mucous membrane and the papillae of the hinder third, and the lateral part of the tongue. Beneath the hyo-glossus muscle it furnishes offsets to the pharynx, the arches of the soft palate, and the tonsil. The nerve confers sensibility on the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and gives the faculty of tasting in the back of the tongue and in the pillars of the soft palate. The gustatory nerve, 5, coming from the pterygoid region (Plate xxi.), appears between the jaw and the internal ptery- goid muscle, and courses forwards along the under surface of the tongue to the tip. At first the nerve rests against the pro- minence inside the last molar tooth ; and in the rest of its extent in the tongue it lies near the edge, covered by the mucous membrane. Offsets from it supply the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and the tongue in front of the distribution of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve— especially the mucous membrane and the papillae. As this branch of the fifth cranial nerve does not receive any filaments of the motor root (p. 185) its function is sensory; and the faculty of tasting in the fore part of the tongue is dependent upon it. Submaxillary ganglion, 7. This little body resembles the len- ticular ganglion in the orbit (Plate xiv.), and is connected with the branch of the fifth nerve distributed to the tongue. Smaller than the lenticular ganglion, and occasionally reddish in colour, it lies just above the submaxillary gland. Some branches are furnished to the submaxillary gland and the mucous membrane of the mouth.