13S DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. is wide, or lies close to the clavicle, the dimensions from above down of the clavicular part of the triangular space will be less than when the muscle is narrow, or is placed at a greater distance from the bone. In some bodies the omo-hyoideus arises from the back of the clavicle, and conceals the subclavian artery, so that there is not any interval in the usual place between the muscle and the collar-bone. Differences in depth will arise from varying states of the neighbouring parts. In a long and thin neck, with low and flat clavicles, the depth is not so great as in a short and thick neck with prominent and much curved collar-bones. Changes in the position of the shoulder will give rise also to variations in depth. Thus if the shoulder is depressed by drawing down the arm, the space is as shallow as it can be made; whilst raising the shoulder gives to the hollow its greatest depth. And by forcing upwards the shoulder the clavicle can be carried as high as, or even higher than the level of the omo-hyoid muscle and the sub- clavian artery. ARTERIES IN THE TRIANGULAR SPACE. In the lower part of the triangular space are contained the trunk of the subclavian artery, and some of its branches. Towards the ear are other small arteries, which are derived from the external carotid trunk. a. Subclavian artery. b. Supra-scapular arteiy. c. Transverse cervical artery. d. Cutaneous branch, of tlie sub- clavian. e, f. Brandies of the ascending cervical artery. g. Posterior auricular artery. h. Cutaneous offset of the pos- terior auricular. Subclavian artery, a. The third part of the arch of the sub- clavian trunk (Plate xviii.) lies in the clavicular portion of the posterior triangular space; and it has the following anatomy. Its extent is marked by the outer edge of the anterior scalenus, Gr, on the one side, and the lower border of the first rib on the other (below the clavicle). The vessel is directed outwards at first, about an inch above the clavicle, and it passes downwards finally under the most prominent point of that bone.