162 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. As high as the mastoid process the artery is covered by the sterno-mastoideus, A, the digastricus, R, and the stylo-hyoideus, P, besides the common investing superficial layers ; and thence to its ending it is concealed by the parotid gland (Plate xvi.). Anterior to it are the pharynx and the jaw ; and beneath it is the styloid process. No companion vein belongs to this artery. Several nerves cross this carotid trunk :— superficial to it near the beginning is the hypoglossal nerve, 14, and near the ending the ramifications of the facial nerve, 4 ; whilst beneath it lie the external laryngeal, 2, the superior laryngeal, 1, and near the jaw the glossopharyngeal (Plate xxii.). The offsets of the artery are numerous :—they consist of an anterior set of three, viz., thyroid, d, lingual, e, and facial, f; a posterior set of two, occipital, g, and posterior auricular, h; and an ascending set, also three in number, the temporal, I, internal maxillary, n, and ascending pharyngeal (Plate xxiv.). Ligature. The artery is accessible below the digastric muscle, ; and here it is covered, like the internal carotid, by the sterno- mastoideus. Its branches are attached to the trunk so thickly as not to leave space enough between any two for the application of a ligature without the prospect of haemorrhage when the | thread comes away. Before the removal of tumours about the jaw, ligature of the external carotid trunk might be considered advisable as an auxiliary means of checking haemorrhage during an operation. In a wound of a branch of the external carotid the vessel should be tied, as a rule, where it is injured; but in hsemorrhage* from the artery of the tongue, where the bleeding orifice cannot be secured, the surgeon may have recourse to ligature of the artery nearer the origin from the common trunk. Bratiches of the carotid. The upper thyroid, d, ends in the thyroid body : it gives offsets to the contiguous muscles, and a laryngeal branch to the interior of the larynx with the upper laryngeal nerve, 1. The lingtial artery, /, is distributed to the tongue. Arising above or below the cornu of the hyoid bone it is directed inwards