119 VESSELS IN THE BASE OF THE SKULL. supplied from arteries outside the cavity of the skull, ramify in the dura mater. c. Large meningeal artery. 1 The internal carotid artery, a, issues from the carotid foramen in the apex of the temporal bone, and winding through the caver- nous sinus (Plate xiv.), touches the brain at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, and splits into branches (cerebral) for the supply of the large brain or cerebrum. On the side of the sphenoid bone it makes two bends, lying internal to the cranial nerves; and at the base of the brain it is placed between the second and third nerves. An ophthalmic branch, and small offsets to the dura mater, spring from this part of the carotid. The vertebral artery, b, is a branch of the subclavian trunk, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum: the arteries of opposite sides soon coalesce, and they supply the small, and part of the large brain. An offset is furnished by it to the dura mater. Meningeal arteries. Small arteries ramify in each fossa of the base of the skull: they are named anterior, middle, and posterior, like the fossas. The anterior set, two in number, n, n, and the smallest, are branches of the ophthalmic artery in the orbit: they come from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries, and entering the skull at the edge of the cribriform plate, end in the middle part of the fossa. One sends a twig to the front of the falx cerebri, E. The middle set, three in number, are derived from branches of the external carotid artery, and appear through the lacerated, oval, and spinous foramina. The largest of these, and the only one generally injected, is the following :— The middle meningeal artery, c, nourishes chiefly the bony case containing the brain. Arising from the internal maxillary artery, it comes inwards through the foramen spinosum, and ascends to the top of the head, grooving the bones—more particularly the lower and fore parts of the parietal. At the vertex of the skull it a. Internal carotid artery. b. Vertebral artery. m. Posterior meningeal artery. n, 7t. Anterior meningeal arteries.