SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES AND THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 121 pupil to opposite points of the circumference of the orbit; whilst two, which are named oblique, roll the ball. L. Lachrymal gland. M. Eyeball of the left side. N. Upper oblique muscle. P. Levator palpebral superioris. R. Upper rectus muscle. S. External rectus muscle. T. Pulley of the upper oblkpie muscle. The lachrymal gland, L, lies above the muscles in the outer part of the orbit, and touches in front the upper eyelid. Shaped somewhat like an almond, with its longest measurement directed transversely, it is suspended by fibrous tissue to the roof of the orbit. It secretes the tears; and its ducts, six or eight in number, open along an arched line on the inner surface of the upper lid, near the outer end. The upper oblique muscle, N, (trochlearis) is the longest muscle in the orbit, and passes through a ring, or pulley. It arises from the frontal bone, close to the optic foramen in the bottom of the orbit; and ends anteriorly in a tendon, which is directed backwards through the pulley, but beneath the upper rectus, and is inserted into the eyeball behind the centre (Fig. xiv.). The trochlea or pulley, T, is a ring of fibro-cartilage, which is attached to the pit near the inner angle of the frontal bone. A synovial membrane lines the ring, and fibrous tissue is prolonged from the margins along the tendon. The muscle draws inwards somewhat the back of the eyeball, rotating it at the same time; and it gives to the pupil an inclina- tion downwards and outwards towards the top of the shoulder. By this action it is thought to control the movement downwards and inwards of the eye by the inferior rectus muscle. The levator palpebral superioris, P, arises in the bottom of the orbit, close to the preceding ; becoming tendinous in front of the eyeball, it enters the upper eyelid, and is inserted into the fore part of the tarsal cartilage. The muscle elevates the upper eyelid, moving upwards the fibro- cartilage over the eyeball, and gives rise to a deep groove in the skin. If the eyeball is directed down when the muscle is acting,