ioo THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. immersion of the fish in the fat-bath, more fat will soak into it, but such is not the case ; the water amidst the fibres of the fish is boiling and driving out steam so rapidly that no fat can enter if the heat is well main- tained to the last moment, and the frying not continued too long. When cooked on the greased plate, one side is necessarily cooling, and the fat settling down into the fish to occupy the pores left vacuous by the condensing steam, while the other is being heated from below. The temperature of the fat-bath may be tested by the ordinary cook's method—that of throwing into it a small piece of bread-crumb about the size of a nut. If it frizzles and produces large bubbles of steam, the full tem- perature of frying in the hottest of fat is reached ; if it frizzles slightly, and only gives out small steam-bubbles, you have the temperature demanded for slow frying. The bath-frying demands separate supplies of fat1 —one for fish, another for cutlets and other similar kinds of meat, a third for such goody-goodies as apple- fritters—a most wholesome and delicious dish, too rarely seen on English tables. I suspect that the pre- valence oi the greased frying-pan is the reason of its rarity. Cooked by this barbaric device, apples are scarcely eatable, but when thin slices are immersed in a bath of melted fat at a temperature of about 3000 Fahr., the water of their juice is suddenly boiled, and as this water is contained in a multitude of little bladderlike 1 The necessity for this is not so great as may appear theoretically. I have tried the experiment of having veal cutlets fried in a bath previously used for fish, and was not able to detect any fishy flavour as I expected I should. This was the case even when I knew that the fish fat had been used, and I was consequently far more critical than under ordinary circum- stances. Even apple fritters may be cooked in fat that has been used for fish. I have tried this since the above was written and am surprised at the result.