BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Flnger-RIng Lore: Historical, Le- gendary, and Anecdotal. With over Two Hundred Illustrations. Credulities, Past and Present; in- cluding the Sea and Seamen, Miners, Talismans,Word and Letter Divina- tion, Exorcising and Blessing of Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c. With an Etched Frontispiece. Crowns and Coronations : A History of Regalia in all Times and Coun- tries. With One Hundred Illus- trations. Jonson's (Ben) Works. With Notes Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical Memoir by William Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cun- ningham. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 18a.; or separately,6s. each. Joseph us,The Com pleteWorks of. Translated by Whiston. Con- taining both " The Antiquities of the Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews." Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s. Kempt.—Pencil and Palette: Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Kingsley (Henry), Novels by: Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Knight.—The Patient's Vade Mecum: How to get most Benefit from Medical Advice. By William Knight, M.R.C. S., and Edward Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d. Lamb (Charles): Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Ori- ginal Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of Page of the "Essay on Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. The Essays of Elia. Complete Edi- tion. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s. Poetry for Children, and Prince Dorus. By Charles Lamb. Care- fully reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Little Essays : Sketches and Charac- ters. By Charles Lamb. Selected from his Letters by Percy Fitz- gerald. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s 6d. Lane's Arabian Nights, &c.: The Thousand and One Nights: commonly called, in England, " The Arabian Nights' Entertain- ments." A New Translation from the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lank. Illustrated by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the Translator, edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a Preface by Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Arabian Society In the Middle Ages: Studies from "The Thousand and One Nights." By Edward William Lane, Author of "The Modern Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo.cloth extra. 6s. Lares and Penates; or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Larwood (Jacob), Works by: The Story of the London Parks. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Forensic Anecdotes. Theatrical Anecdotes. Life in London ; or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the whole of Cruik- shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Linton (E. Lynn), Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Witch Stories. The True Story of Joshua Davidson. Ourselves: Essays on Women. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Patricia Kemball. The Atonement of Learn Dundas The World Well Lost. Under which Lord ? With a Silken Thread. The Rebel of the Family. " My Love ! " lone. Locks and Keys.—On the De- velopment and Distribution of Primi- tive Locks and Keys. By Lieut.-Gen. Pitt-Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Rox- burghe, 16s.