THE COOKERY OF VEGETABLES. 179 Arrowroot may be taken as an example. To the chemist arrowroot is starch in as pure a form as can be found in nature, and he applies this description to all kinds of arrowroot; but, looking at the 'price current' in the ' Grocer ' of the current week, November 22, 1884, I find under the first item, which is ' Arrowroot,' the following : ( Bermuda, per lb. lod. to is. 5d.;' ' St. Vin- cent and Natal, i\d. to j\d.;' and this is a fair example of the usual differences of price of this commodity. Five farthings to S3 farthings is a wide range, and should express a wide difference of quality. I have on several occasions, at long intervals apart, obtained samples of the highest-priced Bermuda, and even ' Missionary' arrowroot, supposed to be perfect, brought home by im- maculate missionaries themselves, and therefore worth is. 6d. per lb., and have compared this with the ' St. Vincent and Natal.' I find that the only difference is that on boiling in a given quantity of water the Bermuda produces a somewhat stiffer jelly, the which additional tenacity is easily obtainable by using a little more of the i\d. (or say ^d. to allow a profit on retailing) to the same quantity of water. Both are starch, and starch is neither more nor less than starch, unless it be that the best Bermuda, sold at per lb., is starch phis humbug.'■ The ultimate chemical composition of starch is the same as that of cellulose—carbon and the elements of water, and in the same proportions; but the difference of chemical and physical properties indicates some dif- ference in the arrangement of these elements. It would 1 In fairness to retailers I should state that the price of arrowroot just now is unusually low; the ordinary range is from twopence to two shil- lings. People who are afraid of having their arrowroot adulterated should ask themselves what can be used to cheapen the St. Vincent at the above- quoted prices, which are those of the unquestionably genuine article. N 2