THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. 292 Visiting a friend in the trade, he offered me a glass of the wine that he drank himself when at home, and supplied to his own family. He asked my opinion of it. I replied that I thought it was genuine grape-juice, re- sembling that which I had been accustomed to drink at country inns in the Cote d'Or (Burgundy) and in Italy. He told me that he imported it directly from a district near to that I first named, and could supply it at \2s. per dozen with a fair profit. Afterwards, when calling at his place of business in the West-end, he told me that one of his best customers had just been tasting the various samples of dinner claret then remaining on the table, some of them expensive, and that he had chosen the same as I had, but what was my friend to do ? Had he quoted \2s. per dozen, he would have lost one of his best customers, and sacrificed his reputation as a high-class wine-merchant; therefore he quoted 54X, and both buyer and seller were perfectly satisfied: the wine- experts as ordinary merchandise. The Hungarian wine oil is one of them : ' I have just obtained what is expressively known as " a wrinkle " from a wholesale price-list of a distiller which has fallen (no matter how) into my hands. That it was never intended to be seen by any mortal eyes outside of " the trade " goes without saying. In this highly instructive document I find, under the head of " Spirit Flavours," " the attention of consumers in Australia and India" (we needn't say anything about Eng- land) "is particularly called to these very useful and excellent flavours. One pound of either of these essences to fifty gallons of plain spirit " (let us suppose potato spirit) "will make immediately a fine brandy or old torn, &c, without the use of a still.—See Lancet report." This is followed by a list of prices of these "flavours," and then follows a similar one of "Wine Aromas." A cheerful look-out all this presents, upon my word ! The confiding traveller calls at his inn for some old brandy, and they make it in the bar while he is waiting. He orders a pint of claret or port, and straightway he is served with some that has been two and a half minutes in bottle ! After the perusal of this price-list, I have come to the con- clusion that in the case of no articles of consumption whatever is the motto Caveat emptor more needful to be attended to than in that of (so called) wines and spirits.'