BOOKS PUBLISHED BY " Secret Out " Series, continued— The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks. By Thomas K-ntish. With numer- ous Illustrations. The Art of Amusing : A Collection of Graceful Arts,Oames.Tricks,Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank Bellew. With 300 Illustrations. Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. II. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations. The Merry Circle: A Book of New Intellectual G^mes and Amusements. By Clara Bellew. With many Illustrations. Magician's Own Book: Performances with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual Experience. Edited by W. H. Cre- mer. 200 Illustrations. Magic No Myrtery: Tricks with Cards, Dice, B ills, &c, with fully descriptive Diiections; the Art of Secret Writing; Training of Per- forming Animals, &c. With Co- loured Frontis. and many Illusts. Senior.—By Stream and Sea. By William Sknior. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Seven Sagas (The) of Prehis- toric Man. By James H. Stoddart, Author of " The Village Life." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Shakespeare: The First Folio Shakespeare.—Mr. William Shakespeare's Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true Originall Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard and Ed. Blount. 1623.—A Repro- duction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile, by a photogra- phic process—ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo, half-Roxburghe, 7s. 6d. TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beau- tifully printed in red and black, in sm all but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s. The Dramatic Works of Shake- speare : The Text of the First Edition, carefully reprinted. Eight Vols., demy 8vo, cloth boards, 403. Shakespeare, continued— The Handbook of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of 350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of Shake- speare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the Present Time. By Alfred Roffe. 4to, half-Roxburghe, 7s. A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger- non Charles Swinburne. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. Shelley's Complete Works, in Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s.; or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. con- tains his Early Poems, Queen Mab, &c, with an Introduction by Leigh Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems, Laon and Cythna, &c.; Vol. III., Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers, &c. : Vol. IV., his Prose Works, in- cluding A Refutation of Deism, Zas- trozzi. St. Irvyne. &c. Sheridan:— Sheridan's Complete Works, with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations, Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full- page Tinted Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals, and The School for Scandal. Edited, with an Introduction and Notes to each Play, aud a Bio- graphical Sketch of Sheridan, by Brander Matthews. With Decora- tive Vignettesand iofull-page Illusts. Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d. Short Sayings of Great Men. With Historical and Explanatory Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M A. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete Poetical Works, including all those in "Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial- Introduction, Notes, &c, by the Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s. Signboards: Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable Characters. By Jacob Larwood and John Camden Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Sims (George R.), Works by : How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts. by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is. Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo, iHust. boards, 2s.; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.