108 NOTES ON ROASTING MEAT. Ihe Dry Roasting or Baking of Meat :—On a superficial reading, “Axioms ” (5 and 6), page 100 appear slightly contra- dictory. In reality, however, this is not the case. In the former method, dripping and flour are put on the meat, and in the latter the.rule is not to do so; but then in the former the sealing up of the juices is accomplished in 10 minutes, aided by the covering of fat and flour; while in the latter 20 minutes (just double the time) is allowed for this purpose. Soyer is the authority for this non-basting theory, and these “ Axioms ” were formulated to adapt it as nearly as possible to the smaller and similar apparatus of small houses. His plan is to draw the meat 3 or 4 feet from the fire, which must be large—this, of course, would be too great a distance from a small range ; but the idea is, very sloio cooking—so slow that basting is not required to keep it moist, and the degree of heat not great enough to dry up too much of its own moisture. Even for poultry and game, his rule is to rub the breast only with a little butter after the skin becomes set. Tie points out as one of the evils of basting, that by continually pouring hot fat over, the beautiful light fat attached to the joint becomes heavy, and the gravy, which invariably falls from the joint with the fat, remains upon it ancTHburns, and causes it to be very heavy and indigestible. At the same time he apologises for attempting to improve the English method of roasting. Where Soyer’s method can be carried out, it is most advantageous in the saving of time and trouble. The idea of slow cooking has been proved to be the best in every mode of cooking meat— in boiling, stewing, grilling, and even in dry frying (which is the quickest method, and supposed only to take 5 or 6 minutes), as well as roasting or baking—-and it is inculcated throughout this little work, and certainly cannot be too much emphasised, It is, perhaps, necessary to add that in frosty weather the meat should be brought into a warmer atmosphere some little time before cooking it, or a longer time allowed for the cooking. These notes would be incomplete, perhaps, without a word or two on the cooking of salt meat, which is not introduced into the syllabuses, because the ordinary salting process deprives it of so much nutriment; though where a fresh joint is salted by the pumping-in process merely for its savoury advantages, and not for the sake of keeping it, of course it is not deprived of its juices, nor is it so hardened as when it lies in the pickle