44 Method .---Cut the meat into nice sized pieces, and cut the onions in rings or chop them, and put them both into a sauce- pan, with the water, and simmer this very gently 1 hour, skim- ming well. Slice the potatoes (after parboiling them), or leave them whole, as preferred, put them on the top of the meat, adding salt and pepper, and stew A hour longer, or until tender. Stir a few minutes to prevent burning, and when done season to taste, put the potatoes round a hot dish, with the meat, onions and gravy in the middle TO BOIL GREEN VEGETABLES. Ingredients:—Greens. Plenty of boiling water. 1 tablespoonful salt 1 , , ~ „ 1 dessertspoonful sugar /to eadl 2 ^ of W£lter* Method:—Remove the withered leaves from the greens and cut the stalk twice across; it will then be cooked in time with the leaves. (Sometimes, in the case of young cabbages, when they are not close and firm, it is better to cut them quite in two and then tie the upper part together again with string.) Pour boiling water over them, which draws the insects out more readily than by putting them into salt and water, as the salt makes the insects sluggish; if not quite fresh, leave them in cold water a little while before cooking. Then put them into a large saucepan, containing plenty of boiling water, and the salt and sugar to keep the colour. It is safer not to use soda, because it is very strong and powerful, and often spoils the flavour. All vegetables are better cooked gently after they come to boiling point. The slow heat has the same effect upon the fibres of vegetables as upon meat, and makes them more tender and digestible. Keep the water well skimmed, try them with a skewer, when tender strain them at once (for as soon as they are soft they absorb the water again, and become unwholesome), and press them dry in a colander. The time for cooking depends more on age than size. Young fresh vegetables require much less cooking than older ones, and vary from 2.0 to 40 minutes. K.B.—(1) (See “Axioms,” 24.) These rules apply generally