375 THE INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE. rectus inferior, and the inferior oblique. The nerves to the two recti enter the ocular surfaces of these muscles ; the nerve to the inferior oblique is a long branch, which is prolonged forwards in the interval, between the rectus inferior and rectus externus, and enters the hinder border of the inferior oblique muscle. Soon after its origin this branch gives the short motor root to the lenticular ganglion, and likewise supplies two or three additional filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The Abducent or Sixth Nerve will be found closely applied to the ocular surface of the external rectus, and it enters the orbit by passing through the narrow interval between the heads of this muscle. It is destined entirely for the supply of the rectus externus. Arrangement of the Nerves in the Sphenoidal Fissure.— Now that the orbit is dissected, and the various nerves which were met in the dissection of the cavernous sinus traced into the cavity, the dissector will observe that the arrangement of these nerves in the sphenoidal fissure is somewhat different from that in the sinus. The lachrymal, frontal, and trochlear or fourth nerves enter the orbit above the muscles on very much the same plane (Fig. 245). The other nerves enter between the heads of the external rectus. Of these the superior division of the oculomotor nerve is the highest, next comes the nasal nerve, then the inferior division of the oculomotor nerve, whilst the abducent nerve occupies the lowest level. Dissection.—The inferior oblique muscle is placed very differently from the other muscles of the orbit. It is situated below the eyeball, and turns round its inferior and outer surface. It must be dissected from the front. It is necessary therefore to restore the eyeball to ■ its natural place. Next, evert the lower eyelid and remove the conjunctiva from its deep surface as it is reflected on to the globe of the eye. A little dissection in the floor of the fore part of the orbit and the removal of some fat will reveal the inferior oblique muscle. The Inferior Oblique Muscle arises from a small depression on the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone immedi-