413 MOUTH AND PHARYNX. The Palato-glossus {constrictor isthmi fauciuni) is a delicate muscular slip, which arises from the side of the posterior part of the tongue, and curves upwards and inwards to reach the under surface of the soft palate. Here its fibres spread out, and become continuous with the corre- sponding fasciculi of the opposite side. It forms the lowest muscular stratum of the soft palate. The Palato-pharyngeus forms two muscular strata in the soft palate which enclose between them the azygos uvulae and the levator palati muscles. The upper layer is very weak, and confined to the posterior part of the velum. It consti- tutes the most superficial muscular stratum on this aspect of the palate, and becomes continuous with the corresponding portion of the muscle of the opposite side. The deeper layer takes origin from the posterior margin of the palate bone and from the palatal aponeurosis, while some of its fibres mingle with those of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. Outside the soft palate the two strata come together, and are joined by one or two delicate muscular slips which spring from the lower border of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. These slips are sometimes described as the salpingo- pharyngeus inuscle. The palato-pharyngeus thus formed arches downwards and backwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces to reach the stylo-pharyngeus with which it is inserted into the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. Some of its fibres, however, incline back- wards, and are inserted into the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Azygos Uvulae.—This delicate muscle is placed on the upper aspect of the soft palate, and posteriorly it is covered by the superficial fibres of the palato-pharyngeus. These must be removed to expose it fully. It consists of two minute slips which, as a rule, arise from the pos- terior nasal spine of the hard palate, and lie one on either side of the mesial plane. As they proceed backwards into the uvula they unite into a single rounded muscular belly.