622 THE EYEBALL. The ciliary processes rest upon the subjacent zonule of Zinn, the membrane, which covers the fore part of the vitreous body. This membrane is adapted in the most intimate manner to the ciliary processes. It is folded or wrinkled in such a way that the folds occupy the sulci or valleys between the processes. The Iris lies in front of the crystalline lens, and it is separated from the cornea by the anterior chamber filled with aqueous humour. By its circumference it is continuous with the choroid coat, and it is at the same time connected by the ligamentum pectinatum iridis with the margin of the cornea. The iris is circular in form, and is perforated in the centre by a round opening which is termed the pupil. Its anterior surface is faintly striated in a radial direction. It is coloured dilferently in different individuals. Its posterior surface is deeply pigmented. The pupil presents a very nearly circular outline,^ and during life it constantly varies in its dimen- sions so as to control the amount of Hght which is admitted into the interior of the eyeball. These changes in the size of the pupil are produced by the contractile properties of two groups of involuntary muscular fibres which are present in its substance. One group is composed of muscular fibres, arranged circularly around the pupil in the form of a sphincter; the second group consists of fibres, which have a radial direction, and pass from the sphincter towards the circumference of the iris, so as to constitute a dilatator muscle. By many anatomists these radial fibres are con- sidered to be elastic and not muscular. Ciliary Nerves.—The ciliary nerves which arise from the lenticular ganglion and the nasal nerve, after piercing the sclerotic at the back of the eyeball around the optic entrance, extend forwards between this coat and the choroid. ^ It may be as well to mention here that the pupil in the ox and the sheep is greatly elongated in the transverse direction. In the pig, how- ever, it is approximately circular.