HEAD AND NECK. 264 to pass a bristle into each of the orifices. The upper canal at first for a short distance ascends, whilst the lower one descends, and then both run inwards to the lachrymal sac. The conjunctiva is the membrane which lines the deep surface of both the Hds, and is reflected from them on to the anterior aspect of the eyeball. At the margins of the lids, it is continuous with the skin, whilst through the puncta lachrymalia and the lachrymal canals it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac. The line of reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids on to the eye- ball is termed the fornix. Owing to the greater depth of the upper lid the conjunctival recess between the upper Hd and the eyeball is of greater extent than that in connection with the lower Hd. The connection between the conjunc- tiva on the one hand, and the eyelids and sclerotic coat of the eyeball on the other, is of a loose character. Over the cornea, however, the membrane becomes thinned down to a mere epithelial covering, which is closely adherent. In connection with the conjunctiva the plica sejuilunaris and the caruncula lachrymalis must be examined. The caruncula is the reddish fleshy-looking elevation, which occupies the centre of the lacus lachrymalis at the inner canthus. From its surface a few minute hairs project. The plica semilunaris is of interest because in the human eye it is the rudimentary representative of the membrana nictitans, or third eyelid, of the bird and many other animals. It is a small vertical fold of conjunctiva, which is placed immediately to the outer side of the caruncula and slightly overlaps at this point the eyeball. Dissection.—The dissection of the face is both difficult and tedious. The ramifications of the nerves are so intricate, and the fibres of the facial muscles are so pale, and so closely surrounded by the soft sub- cutaneous fat of the region, that great care and patience are required on the part of the student to obtain a proper display of the various structures. In cases where the dissection is undertaken for the first time, it may be well to devote particular attention to the nerves and muscles on the one side, and to the vessels and muscles on the opposite