438 HEAD AND NECK. The upper of the two inferior nasal nerves will be found emerging through a small aperture in the vertical plate of the palate bone, at a point between the posterior extremities of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. It divides into an ascending and descending branch. The former runs forwards on the middle spongy bone; the latter extends forwards upon the inferior spongy bone. The lower of the two inferior nasal nerves appears through a foramen in the vertical plate of the palate bone immediately behind the posterior end of the inferior turbinated bone upon the outer surface of which it proceeds in a forward direction. The nasal nerve proper should be exposed as it descends in the groove upon the deep surface of the nasal bone (p. 368). It gives, as we have noted, a branch inwards to the septum; an external twng may also be traced to the mucous membrane over the fore part of the outer wall and to the fore parts of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. The main artery of supply to the nasal mucous membrane is the sphenopalatine^ a branch of the internal maxillary. It gains entrance to the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen in company with the superior nasal and naso- palatine nerves. One branch of this vessel—the accompanies the latter nerve, whilst others are distributed upon the outer wall of the cavity. Several twigs are also given by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary and the two ethmoidal arteries^ but these are small and will only be seen in cases where the injection of the subject has been unusually successful. SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION OR THE GANGLION OF MECKEL. Dissection.—Meckel's ganglion is placed on the outer side of the spheno-palatine foramen, and can best he exposed at this stage by dis- secting from the inside. The mucous membrane has already been removed from the posterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and the inferior nasal branches of the great palatine nerve have been found