145 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. and downward direction the fascia presents a different rela- tion to the two serrati muscles. Superiorly it proceeds under cover ^?/"the serratus posticus superior and the splenius muscles, and is lost in the deep layers of fascia of the neck; inferiorly it hkfids with the aponeurotic tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and the latissimus dorsi, and with these forms the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. The Lumbar Fascia is an exceedingly dense aponeurotic structure, which gives great support to the muscles of the loins, and also serves as a means of origin for two of the flat muscles of the abdominal wall—viz., the transversalis abdominis and obliquus internus. It is attached internally to the vertebral column by three distinct lamellae, which are separated from each other by intervening muscular masses. posterior ox superficial lamella is at present seen in the form of a strong opaque aponeurotic sheet stretching out- wards from the lumbar spines. It is formed, as we have already observed, by a continuation downwards of the verte- bral aponeurosis, and by a union of this with the aponeurotic tendons of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus posticus inferior. Divide this lamella in a longitudinal direction about one inch external to the middle line, and raise it from the subjacent erector spinae muscle. Mesially it will be seen to have a strong attachment to the tips of the lumbar spines and the intervening supra- spinous ligaments, whilst inferiorly it is fixed to the back part of the crest of the ilium, and to the subjacent tendon of the erector spinse, where this lies upon the dorsum of the sacrum. The erector spinae should now be pushed inwards either with the fingers or with the handle of a knife. This pro- ceeding will bring into view the second or middle lamella of the lumbar fascia. Further, the union of the posterior and middle lamellae beyond the outer border of the erector spinae, and the attachment of the middle lamella to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, may be VOL. II.—10