DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 273 tion of them pass through the fascicuH of the orbicularis and frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis to gain a direct insertion into the skin of the eyebrow; one of its muscular bundles, however, joins the orbicularis, whilst a few others blend with the frontalis. The Oral Group of Muscles.—The muscles of the lips and mouth which are included in this group are the following 1. Orbicularis oris. r major. 2. Zygomaticus, - . L minor. 3. Risorius. 4. Levator Labii superioris alaeque nasi. 5. Levator labii superioris. 6. Levator anguli oris. 7. Depressor anguli oris. 8. Depressor labii inferioris. 9. Levator menti. 10. Buccinator. The orbicularis oris is a sphincter muscle which surrounds the oral aperture. The other muscles of this group, with the exception of the levator menti, converge towards it. From the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and from the lower margin of the orbital opening, the labial slip of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and the levator labii superioris descend into the upper lip. Converging upon the angle of the mouth, the dissector will have little difficulty in recognising the zygomaticus major, the risorius, and the depressor anguli oris; whilst placed upon a deeper plane and extending towards the same point are the levator anguli oris and the buccinator. Entering the lower lip from below is the depresssor labii inferioris. The play of the lips is produced by the action of these muscles antagonised to a certain extent by the orbicularis. The levator menti has little connection with the lips. It only acts indirectly on the lower lip, as will be seen when its attachments are studied. Dissection.—It is in dissecting these muscles that the chief difficulty- will be encountered in preserving the various nerves of the face. Several large branches of the facial nerve will be found passing forwards under cover of the zygomatic muscles to reach the under surface of the levator iabii superioris, where they form a complicated plexus with the infra- VOL. II.—^18