283 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. dividing into two branches, termed respectively the temporo- facial and the cervico-facial divisions. From this part of the nerve three branches arise, viz. :—the posterior auricular nerve, the nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the nerve to the stylo-hyoid muscle. Th^ posterior auricular nerve has already been followed out in its distribution to the retrahens auriculam, attollens auriculam, and posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis (p. 109). Its origin is now exposed, and it will be seen to arise from the facial trunk immediately after this issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen. At this stage it may be possible to make out a communication between the auricular branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's nerve) and the posterior auricular branch of the facial. Arnold's nerve emerges from the interval between the mastoid process and the auditory meatus, and after sending a branch to join the posterior auricular nerve, it ends in filaments for the integument on the posterior aspect of the ear. The 7ierve to the posterior belly of the digastric is a stout, short branch which inclines downwards and forwards and soon divides into several filaments which enter the upper surface of this muscle. One of these twigs usually passes through the muscle to effect a communication with the glosso-pharyngeal. The nerve to the stylo-hyoid is a longer and more slender filament, which generally arises in common with the preced- ing, and sinks into the posterior aspect of this muscle. The Temporo-facial Division of the facial nerve is pro- longed forwards through the parotid gland, and at once divides into numerous branches which radiate widely from each other, and stretch over an area extending from the ear behind to the margin of the upper lip below. Whilst within the substance of the parotid gland the temporo-facial nerve crosses the external carotid artery near its termination, and also the temporo-maxillary vein. It receives two, or it may be three, stout branches of communication from the auriculo- temporal nerve, and forms a plexiform arrangement with the