THE EYEBALL. 6i8 transverse direction. This is due to the fact that the sclerotic overlaps it to a greater extent above and below than it does at the sides. This is particularly noticeable in the eyeball of the ox. The posterior concave surface of the cornea forms the front boundary of the anterior chamber of the eyeball, and is separated by the aqueous humour from the anterior surface of the iris. The anterior convex surface of the cornea is clothed by the conjunctiva which is here reduced to its epithelial layer. Behind there is an elastic glassy stratum, termed the elastic membrane of Descemet. When the cornea is relaxed this membrane becomes wrinkled, and it can be torn away in shreds from the proper corneal tissue. When dealt with in this way the portions removed show a tendency to curl up. Ligamentum Pectinatum Iridis.—At the margin of the cornea the membrane of Descemet becomes fibrillar, and some of its fibres are continued into the iris forming the pillars of the iris or the ligamentum pectinatum iridis., whilst others are prolonged backwards into the choroid and the sclerotic. The ligamentum pectinatum iridis bridges across the angle between the cornea and the iris, and the bundles of fibres into which the membrane of Descemet breaks up in this region constitute an annular meshwork or sponge- like series of minute spaces termed the spaces of Fontana. These communicate with the anterior chamber of the eye- ball, and are filled with lymph or aqueous humour. Intermediate Vascular Tunic.—The intermediate or vascular tunic is exposed in its entire extent in the eyeball, from which the sclerotic coat and the cornea have been removed. As previously mentioned, the vascular tunic con- sists of three portions, viz., a choroid coat, a ciliary zone, and the iris. The choroid coat is the dark-coloured portion which lies behind the ciliary muscle. The ciliary zone con- sists of a superficial ciliary 7nuscle and the subjacent ciliary processes. The ciliary muscle presents the appearance of a