HEAD AND NECK. 422 pharynx. The internal pterygoid muscle has already been divided, but it will be necessary to cut the internal carotid artery with the vessels and nerves which still connect the pharynx with the skull. The larynx and tongue may be laid aside for future dissection. The fore part of the skull should next be divided into two lateral parts by sawing it through in the sagittal direction close to one side of the nasal septum. As a general rule the nasal septum is not vertical, but deviates more or less to one or other side of the mesial plane. This deviation is more frequently directed to the right than to the left side. Endeavour to determine the direction which it takes in the skull under observation by passing a probe into the nasal fossae through the posterior nares. The section through the skull should be made close to the concave side of the septum. Begin in front by introducing a knife into the nostril of that side, and carry it upwards through the cartilaginous part of the nose to the nasal bone. Then place the specimen so that the face rests upon the table, and divide the soft palate from before backwards in the same plane. The section may now be completed by sawing from behind forwards through the hard palate and bony roof of the nasal fossa. The dissector should make every effort to preserve the septum of the nose intact. As a general rule the upper turbinated bone is partially injured. This is not a very serious matter, as the outer aspect of the nasal fossa can be studied upon the opposite side when the septum of the nose has been removed. If the part has been well preserved, the dissector should be able at this stage to expose the otic ganglion, and perhaps also some of its more important connections. Turn the specimen so that its inner surface looks upwards, and carefully detaching the levator palati from its origin throw it downwards. Then remove the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. In doing this, the dissector must proceed with the greatest caution, because the ganglion lies immediately subjacent. By following the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle upwards and backwards to its origin the otic ganglion will be discovered. The Otic Ganglion is an oval, somewhat flattened body, the long axis of which runs in the antero-posterior direction, and measures 4 m.m. It is placed immediately below the foramen ovale, between the deep surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. The middle meningeal artery lies behind it. Two connecting filaments bind it to the inferior maxillary nerve, and it either covers or surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle.