344 HEAD AND NECK. backwards upon the outer surface of the bulb of the internal jugular vein to enter a minute aperture on the posterior part of the outer wall of the jugular foramen. A narrow canal now conducts it through the substance of the temporal bone, and, on its way, it crosses internal to the Fallopian canal a short distance above the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is thus brought into close relation with the facial nerve, and is con- nected with it by an ascending and a descending branch of communica- tion. Finally, it appears on the surface of the skull in the interval between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus. Its further course is described on p. 283. Ganglion of the Trunk.—After emerging from the jugular foramen, the vagus nerve is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and swells out into the ganglion of the trunk. The ga?iglion of the trimk is an elongated reddish-coloured sweUing of about three-quarters of an inch in length, which is developed upon the stem of the vagus nerve half-an-inch below the base of the cranium. Strong branches of com- munication pass between this ganglion, the first loop of the cervical plexus, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Further, the hypoglossal nerve is generally closely bound to it by fibrous attachment, in the midst of which some interchange of nerve filaments takes place. The Branches of Distribution which arise from the vagus nerve in the neck may now be studied. These are :— 1. Pharyngeal. 2. Superior laryngeal. 3. Inferior or recurrent laryngeal. 4. Cardiac. The Pharyngeal Branch springs from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and runs downwards and forwards, superficial to the internal carotid artery, to end in the pharyfigeal plexus. Very frequently it is replaced by two branches, of which the upper is the larger. The Superior Laryngeal Nerve is a much larger branch, which takes origin from the middle of the same ganglion. It passes downwards and forwards, but differs from the pre-