462 HEAD AND NECK. the student has satisfied himself upon these points he can proceed to display the vessels and nerves of the larynx. The superior laryngeal artery and the internal larnygeal nerve reach the larynx by piercing the outer thin part of the thyro-hyoid membrane. By applying traction to the nerve, and at the same time dividing the mucous membrane upon the inner surface of the thyro-hyoid ligament, they can easily be dis- covered. In following the branches into which they divide the mucous membrane must be gradually removed from the inner wall of the larynx. The inferior laryngeal artery and nerve enter from below, and proceed upwards, under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. They can only be satisfactorily displayed by the removal of this piece of cartilage, but the dissector is not recommended to adopt this method unless another larynx is available for the examination of the cartilages and joints. By drawing the thyroid cartilage well outwards the more important branches can be studied. The Internal Laryngeal Nerve.—In the dissection of the neck this nerve has been observed to arise from the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus. It is a sensory nerve, and its branches are chiefly distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. Piercing the lateral part of the thyro-hyoid ligament it divides into three branches. The uppermost of these sends filaments to the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, to the mucous membrane which covers the epiglottis, and to the glosso-epiglottidean folds. The twigs which go to the epiglottis ramify on its posterior surface, but many of them pierce the cartilage to reach the mucous membrane on its anterior surface. The intermediate branch of the internal laryngeal nerve breaks up into filaments which are given to the mucous membrane lining the side wall of the larynx. The lowest branch descends and gives filaments to the mucous membrane which covers the outer and back aspects of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages. A well-marked twig proceeds from this branch and runs downwards upon the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve has previously been seen to arise from the vagus, and it has been traced in the neck up to the point where it disappears under cover of the lower