THORACIC CAVITY. 35 due to the fact that this vein pierces the pericardium where it rests on the diaphragm, and can, therefore, hardly be said to have any intra-thoracic course outside the pericardium. The entire length of the pulmonary artery and of the ascending aorta are enclosed within the fibrous sac of the pericardium. Dissection.—The pericardium may be opened by means of a crucial incision, viz.—(i) a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the body from the point where it blends with the sheath of the aorta down- wards to the diaphragm ; (2) a transverse cut, extending from the middle of the root of one lung to a similar point on the opposite side. The Internal Serous Layer of the Pericardium is now exposed. This layer, which forms a completely closed sac, lines the entire inner surface of the fibrous pericardium, and is reflected from this, upon the vessels which pierce the fibrous layer, on to the surface of the heart. It gives a smooth, polished appearance to the heart and to the interior of the pericardial sac. The lining part of the serous layer is termed the parietalportio?i; the investing portion which covers the heart is called the visceral part or the epicardinm. The great vessels in connection with the heart, as they lie within the fibrous pericardium, also receive more or less complete coverings from the serous layer. The two arteries —viz., the pulmonary artery and the aorta, are completely surrounded by a single tubular sheath. This investment only leaves uncovered the surfaces of these vessels which are in apposition with each other—a fact which can readily be demonstrated by passing the forefinger behind them. The term sinus transversus pericardii is given to the passage through which the finger has been thrust. It intervenes between the two arteries in front, and the auricular part of the heart behind. In the case of the veins, the covering which they receive from the serous pericardium is not so complete. They are covered in front and on each side, whilst posteriorly they are bare and in contact with the fibrous layer of the