73 THORACIC CAVITY. plan than the puhnonary segments, although in both the structure is the same. In the aortic segments the fibrous tissue which intervenes between the two layers of endo- cardium is more abundant, and the corpora Arantii more apparent. The fibrous tissue is not uniformly distributed throughout the valve segment, as may be seen by placing one of them on the point of the finger. A firm cord runs along the free edge, and also along the attached border. In addition to this, the fibrous tissue is spread out in the segment in a uniform layer, except in two localities called the limidce. These are semilunar in outline and lie next the free margin—one on either side of the corpus Arantii. These binulce are thin and transparent, seeing that they are formed of little more than the two opposed layers of endocardium. When the valve is in action and opposing the return of blood into the heart during diastole of the ventricles, the thin lunular portions of the valve segments are closely applied, and afford mutual support to each other. The full brunt of the blood pressure is borne by the stronger portions of the valve segments. Cardiac Wall.—The last step in the dissection of the heart consists in the examination of the parts which enter into the formation of the cardiac wall. On the outside, the heart is clothed by epicarditim or serous pericardium, and on the inside its cavities are lined by the thin smooth endo- cardimn which is continuous through the orifices with the lining membrane of the veins and arteries, and takes a large share in the construction of the valve-flaps. Between the epicardium and the endocardium is placed the muscular tissue of the heart, which is termed the myocardiujn. The muscular fibres of the heart are disposed in several layers, in each of which 'the fibres take a special direction. But in an ordinary dissecting room heart very little information can be obtained as to the arrangement of the muscular fibres. The con- tinuity of the walls is destroyed by the openings which have been made to obtain a view of the interior of the different chambers. It is better,