457 THE LARYNX. Reaching the summit of the arytenoid cartilage on each side, some of the fibres are inserted into it, but the greater pro- portion are prolonged round the base of the cartilage of Santorini into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Here they receive the name of the aryteno-epiglottidean muscle., and as they approach the epiglottis they are joined by the fibres of the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The oblique arytenoid muscles may therefore be considered as constituting a weak sphincter muscle for the superior aperture of the larynx. Each bundle starting from the base of one of the arytenoid cartilages is prolonged into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of the opposite side, and along this to the margin of the epiglottis. The arytenoideus transversus is an unpaired muscle. It is composed of transverse fibres which bridge across the interval between the two arytenoid cartilages, and are attached to the posterior concave surfaces of both of these cartilages. Dissection.—-The further dissection of the laryngeal muscles should be confined to the right side of the larynx. The left side should be reserved for the study of the nerves and vessels. Place the larynx on its left side, and, having fixed it in this position, remove the right crico-thyroid muscle. The right lateral thyro-hyoid ligament should next be divided, and the right inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage disarticulated from its facet on the side of the cricoid cartilage. An incision should now be made through the right ala of the thyroid cartilage a short distance to the outer side of the mesial plane, and the detached piece carefully removed. Three muscles are now exposed, and must be carefully cleaned and defined. They are named from below upwards :— 1. The lateral crico-arytenoid. 2. The thyro-arytenoid. 3. The thyro-epiglottidean. The Lateral Crico-arytenoid Muscle is triangular in form, and smaller than the crico-arytenoideus posticus. It springs from the upper border of the lateral part of the cricoid car- tilage as far back as the facet which supports the base of the arytenoid cartilage; a few of its fibres likewise take origin