HEAD AND NECK. plexus of nerves, will require to be removed in order to display the muscles properly. Constrictor Muscles.—The constrictor muscles are three flat sheets of muscular fibres which are so arranged that they overlap each other from below upwards; thus the inferior constrictor overlaps the lower part of the middle constrictor, whilst the middle constrictor in turn overlaps the lower part of the superior constrictor. The three muscles are inserted in the mesial plane into a median raphe, which descends from the basilar process of the occipital bone along the posterior aspect of the pharynx. The inferior constrictor (Fig. 255, /") is narrow in front at its origin, but it spreads out as it passes backwards towards its insertion. It arises by two heads; of these the lower springs from the posterior part of the side of the cricoid cartilage, whilst the upper and larger head takes origin from the inferior cornu, the oblique line of the ala, and the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle curves back- wards round the pharyngeal wall to meet its fellow of the opposite side in the median raphe. The lower fibres take a horizontal direction, but the remainder ascend with in- creasing degrees of obliquity, until the highest fibres reach the raphe at a point a short distance below the basis cranii. The lower margin of the inferior constrictor overlaps the commencement of the oesophagus, and passing upwards under cover of it, so as to reach the larynx, will be seen the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery (Fig. 255, 5). The middle constrictor {Yig. 255, e) is a fan-shaped muscle. Narrow, and pointed in front, it arises from the great and small cornua of the hyoid bone as well as from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this its fibres radiate widely, and pass round the pharyngeal wall, to be inserted with the corre- sponding fibres of the opposite side into the median raphe. The lower portion of this muscle is overlapped by the inferior constrictor, and in the interval which separates