154 HEAD AND NECK. back of the neck. It represents a powerful elastic structure in quadrupeds, which helps to sustain the weight of the dependent head. In man, however, there is not much elastic tissue developed in connection with it, and it appears to be a continuation upwards of the supraspinous ligament from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance. In shape it is somewhat triangular. By its base it is attached to the crest of the occipital bone; by its anterior border it is fixed by a series of slips to the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and to the bifid spines of the cervical vertebrae in the intervals be- tween their tubercles. Its apex is formed by its attachment to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, whilst its posterior border is in a measure free and gives origin to the trapezius, rhomboid, serratus posticus superior, and splenius muscles. Arteria Princeps Cervicis and Arteria Profunda Cervicis. —The deep cervical artery springs from the superior inter- costal branch of the subclavian, and reaches the dorsum by passing backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. At the present stage of the dissection it is seen ascending upon the semispinalis colli muscle and anastomosing with the arteria princeps cervicis. The latter artery, as we have seen, is a branch of the occipital. Both vessels hkewise anastomose with twigs from the vertebral artery. The arteria profunda cervicis is accompanied by a large vein—the vena profunda cervicis. This vessel begins in the sub-occipital region, where it is joined by the occipital veins, and it ends in the vertebral vein close to its termination. It reaches this point by turning forwards under the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra. Posterior Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves.—The nerves of the back must now be examined. They are the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. With four exceptions (viz., the first cervical, fourth and fifth sacral,