89 THORACIC CAVITY. ganglion is considerably larger than those which succeed it. They are all linked together by intervening nervous cords. Superiorly, the thoracic part of the sympathetic is continu- ous with the cervical sympathetic; whilst inferiorly it becomes continuous with the abdominal portion of the sympathetic by passing behind the ligamentum arcuatum internum of the diaphragm. The branches which spring from the ganglia may be divided into an external and an internal series. The external series are branches of communication be- tween the ganglia and the intercostal nerves. Two run between each nerve and the corresponding ganglion. These differ in the kind of fibres which compose them. One is chiefly composed of white cerebro-spinal nerve fibres ; the other is mainly formed of grey sympathetic nerve fibres. Through the agency of these two twigs, an interchange of fibres takes place between the intercostal nerve and the sympathetic ganglion. The internal series are branches of distribution. From the upper five or six ganglia the internal branches go to the thoracic viscera, whilst in the case of the lower six ganglia, the internal branches unite to form the splanchnic nerves which are destined for the supply of abdominal viscera. The thoracic t^vigs of supply are very small, and are given to the aorta, to the vertebras and their ligaments, and to the lungs. The pulmonary branches proceed from the third and fourth ganglia, and they enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The splanchnic jierves are three in number, and are distinguished by the terms great, S7nall, and smallest. The great splanchnic nerve is formed by the union of five roots derived from the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ganglia. This description, however, must be regarded as being somewhat arbitrary, as there is great variability in the number and manner of origin of the roots of this nerve. It is said that, under certain circumstances, its filaments may be followed upwards upon the sympathetic cord as