THORAX. 32 supply of the diaphragm, but in its course through the middle mediastinum it gives a few fine filaments to the pericardium and the pleura. The small branch of the internal mammary artery which accompanies the phrenic nerve, the arteria comes nervi phrenici, may be traced in a well-injected subject to the forepart of the diaphragm. It takes origin high up in the thorax, and gives branches to the pericardium. Superficial Cardiac Plexus.^—The best plan to adopt in making a dissection of these delicate nerve filaments is to begin by securing the two cardiac nerves which enter the plexus from above. These are-—(i) the cardiac branch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic of the left side; (2) the inferior cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric nerve. Look for both of these nerves upon the aortic arch. They will be found crossing it to the left of the phrenic nerve, between it and the pneumogastric nerve. The cardiac branch from the left pneumogastric nerve is the smaller of the two, and as a general rule it lies nearer the phrenic nerve than the other. The superficial cardiac plexus into which these nerves may be traced lies in the concavity of the aortic arch, and upon the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. At the point of junction of the nerves the minute ganglion of Wrisberg may be discovered. The manner in which this plexus is distributed to the heart will be afterwards noted : in the meantime observe that it gives some fine offsets to the left anterior pulmonary plexus. Dissection.—The pericardium should now be cleaned. In removing the loose areolar tissue from its anterior surface two ligamentous bands which connect it to the posterior aspect of the sternum will be observed. Of these, one—the inferior sterno-pericardiac Iiga??ient—binds it to the ensiform cartilage, whilst the other—the superior sterno-pericardiac ligainetit—connects it with the manubrium sterni, and comes into rela- tion with the pretracheal layer of the deep cervical fascia. The upper surface of the diaphragm should be carefully cleaned at the same time, in order that its relation to the pericardium may be studied.