31 THORACIC CAVITY. Phrenic Nerve.—This is a long nerve which arises in the neck from the cervical plexus, and traverses the entire length of the mediastinal space to reach the diaphragm. It has already been exposed upon the lateral aspect of the peri- cardium in front of the root of the lung. Follow it upwards and downwards. The phrenic nerve enters the chest cavity through the thoracic inlet, and as it does so it passes behind the sub- clavian vein, and crosses obliquely the internal mammary artery in a direction from without inwards. It now proceeds downwards through the superior mediastinum into the middle mediastinum. In the latter it is applied to the side of the pericardium in front of the root of the lung, and is covered by the mediastinal pleura. Finally reaching the diaphragm, the nerve breaks up into several branches which pierce its, substance and spread out on its under surface. But the two phrenic nerves of opposite sides present certain differences. They differ (i) in length; and (2) in certain of their relations. The left phrenic is the longer of the two nerves, and this. is due, partly, to the greater projection of the heart and pericardium to the left side, and partly to the fact that the left cupola of the diaphragm which it enters does not rise so high as the right cupola. The differences in relationship are the following :—(i) As they traverse the superior media- stinum the left phrenic nerve crosses the aortic arch, whilst the right phrenic nerve lies in relation to the right side of the right innominate vein and the superior vena cava; (2) one or more of the terminal branches of the right nerve pass through the opening in the diaphragm for the inferior vena cava.i The branches of the phrenic are chiefly destined for the ^ It is sometimes stated that the right phrenic nerve lies deeper in the chest than the left phrenic. This is not the case, as anyone may ascer- tain for himself by the examination of a series of transverse sections through the frozen thoracic cavity {vide Figs. 156, 176, 177, and 178).