364 HEAD AND NECK. the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is bound to the outer part of the orbital arch by short fibrous bands which proceed from the periosteum. The deep or inner surface is slightly concave, and is directed inwards and downwards towards the eyeball. The small palpebral lobe (portio inferior s. palpebralis) is placed in front of the orbital part, from which it is partially separated by the expanded tendon of the levator palpebr^ superioris. It projects into the back part of the upper eyelid, and rests upon the con- junctiva which lines the under aspect of the lid. This portion of the gland has been already examined in the dissection of the eyeHds (p. 298); but even in the undis- sected subject it can be seen through the conjunctiva if the upper eyelid be fully everted. The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and its ducts (three to five from the orbital part and three to nine from the palpebral part) open upon the under surface of the upper eyelid in the neighbourhood of the fornix (p. 299). The Levator Palpebrse Superioris rests upon the upper surface of the rectus superior. Behind it is narrow and pointed, but it expands as it passes forwards above the eyeball to reach the upper eyelid. It arises from the under surface of the roof of the orbit immediately in front of the optic foramen, and in the fore part of the orbital cavity it widens out into a broad membranous expansion, the con- nections of which have already been described (p. 297). The outer and inner margins of this expansion are fixed to the rim of the orbital opening, in close proximity to the external and internal tarsal ligaments. By these attach- ments excessive action of the muscle upon the upper eyelid is in a measure checked. Dissection.—The frontal nerve should be divided, and the ends thrown forwards and backwards. The levator palpebrae superioris may also be cut midway between its origin and insertion. On raising the posterior portion a minute nervous twig will be observed entering its deep or ocular surface. This comes from the superior division of the third or oculomotor nerve.