THORAX. ICXD The interosseous costo-transverse Hga??ie?it (ligamentum costo-transversarium posterius) consists of fibrous bands which pass between the neck of the rib and the anterior surface of the transverse process against which it rests. The fibres of this ligament are so short that it is exceedingly difficult to obtain a proper view of them. The best plan is to saw off, in a hori- zontal direction, the upper parts of the neck of the rib and the trans- verse process to which it is attached. The posterior costo-tra?7Sverse ligament (ligamentum tuber- cuH costae) is a strong flattened band which passes, on the posterior aspect of the joint, from the tip of the transverse process to the rough portion of the tubercle of the rib. The posterior costo-transverse ligament, supplemented by a few fibres which surround the synovial membrane of the joint, forms the capsular ligament. When the posterior costo-transverse ligament is removed the synovial membrane is displayed. Intervertebral Articulations.—The bodies of the vertebrae are held together by a series of amphiarthrodial joints, sup- ported in front by an anterior common ligament, and behind by a posterior common ligament. The neural arches, by means of the articular processes, form a series of diarthro- dial joints surrounded by capsular ligaments, and lined by synovial membranes. Certain ligaments pass between different portions of the neural arches and their processes, viz., the ligamenta subflava between adjacent lamina, the inter-transverse, the inter-spinous, and the supra-spinous ligaments. The laminre and the spinous processes of the vertebrae have been removed by the dissector of the head and neck in opening up the spinal canal to display the spinal cord. Consequently, the ligamenta subflava, the inter-spinous and supra-spinous ligaments, cannot be seen at present. The anterior common ligament (ligamentum longitudinale anterius) is situated in front of the bodies of the vertebra, and extends from the axis vertebra above to the first piece of the sacrum below. It consists of stout glistening fibrous bands, which are firmly attached to the margins of the