99 THORACIC JOINTS. uppermost, which is the largest, passes upwards and inwards to the body of the vertebra, which forms the upper part of the socket for the head of the rib; (2) the middle slip is attached to the intervertebral disc; and (3) the lowest slip goes to the body of the vertebra below the head of the rib. The part of the joint uncovered by the stellate ligament is surrounded by short fibres which form a capsule., enclosing the synovial membranes. In the four joints in which the head of the rib is in contact with the body of one vertebra, the stellate ligament is composed of only two slips. Of these, the loiver is attached to the body of the vertebra which supports the rib, whilst the upper passes upwards to the lower border of the vertebral body immediately above. Dissection.—The interarticular ligament may be exposed by removing the stellate ligament from the front of the joint. The interarticular liga?nent of the capitular joints is com- posed of short strong fibres which are attached, on the one hand, to the ridge between the two articular facets on the head of the rib, and on the other hand to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two synovial cavities, and it is absent in those cases in which the head of the rib articu- lates with the body of one vertebra. The synovial membranes are two in number, except in the capitular joints of the first and last three ribs. One is placed above, and the other below the interarticular ligament. The Costo-transverse Articulations are provided with capsular ligaments, and with superior, middle, and pos- terior costo-transverse ligaments. Each joint cavity is lined by a synovial membrane. The superior costo-transverse ligament (ligamentum costo- transversarium anterius) passes obliquely downwards and in- wards from the lower border of the transverse process to the upper border of the neck of the rib next below it. Its in ternal margin is thick and well defined, and its outer border becomes continuous with the posterior intercostal membrane.