HEAD AND NECK. 324 lie in a great measure under shelter of the mandible, it is advantageous to make at the same time a section of this bone, in order that it may be turned upwards. Carefully divide the fibres of the mylo-hyoid muscle close to the ridge from which it arises. A very small piece may be left attached to the mandible to serve as a landmark in the future dissection. This must be done very cautiously, else the mucous membrane of the mouth will be injured. When detached from the jaw, the muscle must next be separated from the median raphe, and then it can be thrown down over the hyoid bone. The lower jaw should next be divided, by means of the saw and bone-pliers, a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the symphysis. When the section is completed, the lower margin of the mandible should be gently tilted upwards, and some means taken to retain the loose piece of the bone in this position. Under no pretence whatever should it be removed, and great care must be taken to preserve intact the mucous membrane passing from the floor of the mouth to the deep surface of the gum. Parts Exposed by the Reflection of the Mylo-hyoid (Fig. 237).—^The side of the tongue is now brought into view, with a number of structures in connection with it. First note the mucous membrane stretching from the tongue to the gum of the lower jaw ; then identify the various muscles. The hyo-glossus, a portion of which was previously visible behind the mylo-hyoid, is fully exposed. It is a square sheet of fleshy fibres which extends from the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue. Mark its position, because all the structures in this region have a more or less intimate relat- tionship to it. Thus, behind it, will be recognised the stylo- glossus 77iuscle, and in front of it, the genio-hyo-glossus and the genio-hyoid. The genio-hyoid muscle occupies the fore part of the region, whilst the anterior part of the genio-hyo- glossus is seen in the interval between it and the hyo-glossus. Upon the surface of the hyo-glossus, the lingual and hypo- glossal nerves, the deep portion of the submaxillary gland with Wharton's duct, and the submaxillary ganglion are to be dissected. The lingual nerve occupies the highest level, and passes forward upon the muscle near its insertion into the tongue. The hypoglossal nerve, accompanied by the ranine