THORAX. 62 and this is called the period of cardiac rest. These three conditions of the walls of the heart, viz.—(a) the cardiac rest, {b) the auricular con- traction, {c) the ventricular contraction—follow each other consecutively and without intermission, the one after the other ; and they are collec- tively termed "a cardiac revolution." Let us study what is going on inside the heart during each of these three stages. During the period of cardiac rest the auricles are filling. Blood is flowing into the right auricle through the openings of the superior vena cava, inferior vena cava, and the coronary sinus ; and into the left auricle through the orifices of the four pulmonary veins. A portion of this blood trickles down through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the ventricles ; but the blood is passing into the auricles in greater quantity than it is trickling into the ventricles, and the result is, dis- tension of the auricles. The second stage of the cardiac revolution now takes place—viz., the auricular contraction. The auricles contract sharply and suddenly, and the blood is forced through the auriculo- ventricular orifices into the ventricles. But how is it that the blood, during this contraction, does not regurgitate into the veins, the mouths of which are devoid of valves ? For the simple reason that the con- traction begins at the venous orifices and auricular appendices, and travels towards the auriculo-ventricular openings. The ventricles are now full, and the third stage of the cardiac revolution takes place—viz., the ventricidar contraction. The ventricles contract more slowly, and more deliberately than the auricles, and the blood is discharged into the pulmonary artery and into the aorta. Regurgitation of blood through the auriculo-ventriclar openings into the auricles is prevented by the apposition of the segments of the tricuspid and bicuspid valves, and when the ventricular contraction ceases, regurgitation from the arteries into the ventricles is prevented by the semilunar valves being thrown across the arterial orifices. The segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves are retained in posi- tion, and prevented from being forced upwards into the auricle during the ventricular contraction by the musculi papillares and the chordae tendinere. As the ventricular wall in its contraction to a certain extent advances towards the auriculo-ventricular opening, the musculi papil- lares, in their contraction, retreat from it, and keep the tendinous cords tense—never allowing them to slacken. When the contraction of the ventricle ceases, and the vis a tergo is removed from the blood, the recoil of the expanded wall of the artery exerts a pressure upon the column of blood. Its backward flow is prevented by the filling of the pouches of the semilunar valve. Topography of the Cardiac Orifices.—The position of the diff"erent cardiac orifices, with reference to the anterior wall of the chest, is a