THORAX. 66 the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. It is placed within the superior mediastinum, and the left pleura is applied to its left aspect throughout almost its entire extent (Fig. 176). It lies behind the manubrium sterni, and is crossed, under cover of the left mediastinal pleura, by the left phrenic nerve, the inferior cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric nerve, the left superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic, the left pneumogastric nerve, and the left superior intercostal vein, in that order from before backwards. At first the aortic arch lies in front of the trachea; afterwards it is placed to the left of the trachea, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the left recur- rent laryngeal nerve (Fig. 176). The upper border of this sub- division of the aorta is in relation to the left vena innominata, .and from this aspect of the vessel three large arteries take origin, viz., from right to left—{a) the innominate, {b) the left common carotid, and {c) the left subclavian. Its lower surface^ which forms the concavity of the arch, overhangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is connected with the root of the left pulmonary artery by the fibrous liga- mentum arteriosum. Hooking round this surface is the . recurrent laryngeal branch of the left vagus nerve. Dissection.—The three large branches which spring from the aortic arch carry blood for the supply of the two upper limbs and the head and neck. They should now be dissected. The left common carotid takes origin some- what nearer the innominate artery than the left subclavian. They are all contained within the superior mediastinum, and Fig. 176, p. 68, which is taken from a tracing of a transverse section through the upper part of this space a short distance above the level of the aortic arch, shows their more important relations. The Innominate Artery (arteria anonyma).—The inno- minate artery is the largest of the three branches which spring from the aortic arch. It passes obhquely upwards and to the right, and, gaining the posterior aspect of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, ends behind the upper margin of the clavicle, by dividing into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. In front of the vessel is the manubrium sterni, to the posterior aspect of which