104 HEAD AND NECK. on the one hand to the integument, and on the other to the subjacent epicranial aponeurosis. The meshes formed by these fibrous processes are filled with small lobules of fat, which give this layer a granular appearance. As the fascia is traced forwards towards the forehead, and down- wards on each side towards the ears, it loses in great part its dense fibrous character, and becomes looser and less fatty. It is in the superficial fascia that the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the skin. Dissection.—The superficial fascia may now be removed from the surface of the occipito-frontalis. In doing this, the dissector must pro- ceed very cautiously, so as not to injure the cutaneous nerves and blood vessels which ramify in its midst. It is impossible, owing to its density, to raise it in one layer ; it must be taken away piecemeal. The Occipito-frontalis (epicranius) is a quadricipital muscle possessing two occipital and two frontal bellies. The occipital bellies (musculi occipitales)—Fig. i86 (2)—are quite distinct from each other, and are separated by a marked interval. Each arises from the outer two- thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and from a small portion of the adjoining part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone immediately above the insertion of the sterno-mastoid. From this the fibres ascend for a distance of about two inches in the form of a thin, dark-red, fleshy layer, which is inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis. The frontal bellies (musculi frontales) are composed of pale fibres, and are not perfectly distinct from each other. For a short distance above the root of the nose their inner margins are blended along the middle line. Above this, however, they diverge slightly, and are separated by a narrow interval. They possess little or no direct attachment to bone. The greater number of the fibres mingle with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum and the corrugator supercihi muscles, and gain an attachment to the integument and subcutaneous tissue over the eyebrow, whilst a few of the innermost fibres