THORAX. 46 furrow. It gives off numerous twigs to the left auricle and left ventricle, and one large branch will be observed to pass downwards in the anterior interventricular groove towards the apex of the heart (ramus descendens). The right coronary artery (arteria coronaria dextra) arises from the anterior sinus of Valsalva, and winds round the right margin of the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove to reach its posterior aspect, where it ends near the termination of the artery of the left side. An arterial circle is thus formed, which embraces the base of the heart. The right coronary artery gives off two' large branches. Of these, one passes downwards upon the right sharp margin of the heart, whilst the second and larger descends towards the apex in the posterior interventricular groove (ramus descendens). It also supplies numerous smaller twigs to the right ventricle and right auricle. Cardiac Veins (ven^ cordis).—Take hold of the heart by the apex and pull it upwards, so as to bring into view its posterior surface. In the groove between the left ventricle and left auricle—the coronary sinus (sinus coronarius)—a short wide venous channel will be seen. Open it with the scissors along its whole length. By one extremity it opens into the right auricle, whilst by its other end it becomes con- tinuous with the great cardiac vein., and the point of junction is marked by a valve of two segments. Several posterior cardiac veins from the posterior aspect of the ventricles also open into this sinus, and each orifice is guarded by a distinct valve. Of these, one much larger than the others, and called the middle cardiac veijt (vena cordis media), ascends in the posterior interventricular groove. The right or sjnall coronary vein (vena cordis parva) likewise joins the coronary sinus close to its termination. It occupies that part of the auriculo- ventricular furrow which, on the posterior surface of the heart, intervenes between the right auricle and right ventricle. Lastly, the oblique vein of Marshall (vena obliqua atrii sinistra) from the back of the left auricle opens into the sinus close to the point where it joins the right auricle. The orifice of this