CEREBELLUM. 579 quadrigeminal bodies and the superior cerebellar peduncles. As in the case of the marsupial notch, the sides are formed by the lateral hemispheres and the bottom by the vermis. On the superior surface of the cerebellum, there is little distinction to be noted between the central lobe and the upper surface of each lateral hemisphere. The central lobe or superior vermis forms a median elevation, from which the surface slopes gradually downwards on each side to the margin of the hemisphere. The vermiform elevation is highest in front, immediately behind the semilunar notch, and from this it gradually inclines downwards towards the marsupial notch. It receives the name of the nwnticulus cerebelli. The folia on the surface of the vermis superior will be seen to be thicker and fewer in number than those on the upper surface of the lateral hemisphere. It is this that gives it the worm-like appearance from which its name is derived. On the inferior surface of the cerebellum, the distinction between the three constituent parts of the organ is much better marked. On this aspect the lateral hemispheres, which are full, prominent, and convex, are separated by a deep, mesial hollow, which is continued forwards from the marsupial notch. This hollow is termed the vallecula cerebelli^ and in its fore part is lodged the medulla oblongata. When the medulla is raised, and the lateral hemispheres pulled apart so as to expose the bottom of the vallecula, it will be seen that this is formed by the vermis inferior^ and, further, that the latter is separated on each side from the corresponding lateral hemisphere by a distinct furrow, termed the sulcus valleculce. When the margin of the cerebellum, where it forms the bottom of the semilunar notch on the superior aspect of the organ, is gently pushed backwards, and the mesencephalon pulled forwards, two strands lying upon the dorsal aspect of the pons Varolii will be seen. These are the superior .cerebellar peduncles. Emerging from the white matter of