THE BRAIN. 59° means of which the cavity of the ventricle communicates with the subarachnoid space. This opening is termed the foramen of Magendie. There is also an aperture of a similar character in the epithelial roof of each lateral recess. Two choroid plexuses^ one on either side of the mesial plane, invaginate the roof of the fourth ventricle in such a way that they appear to lie within the cavity. Offshoots from these likewise protrude into the lateral recesses. Dissection.—The dissector should now introduce his fingers into the great horizontal fissure of the right half of the cerebellum, and gently tear the upper part of this side of the organ away from the lower part. By this proceeding the manner in which the peduncles enter the white medullary centre, and also to some extent the general distribution of their fibres will be seen. Both portions of the cerebellum should, in the next place, be removed by cutting through the peduncles at the points where they enter the central white matter. A horizontal section may then be made through the left half of the organ, rather nearer its upper surface than its lower surface. This will reveal the corpus dentatum. Corpus Dentatum of the Cerebellum.—This is a collection of grey matter, embedded in the white medullary centre of the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum, which presents an appearance very similar to that of the olivary nucleus of the medulla. It is a thin lamina of grey matter, which appears on section as a wavy line folded upon itself, so as to form a crumpled grey capsule with an open mouth towards the mesial plane. The greater number of the fibres which build up the superior cerebellar peduncle issue from its mouth. There are other smaller isolated nuclei of grey matter in the white medullary centre of the cerebellum, but these cannot, as a rule, be demonstrated in a specimen obtained in the dissecting-room. They lie nearer the mesial plane. Dissection.—A series of transverse sections should now be made through the pons Varolii and the medulla, in order that something of their internal structure may be learned. The structure of the medulla is briefly described at p. 574. Internal Structure of the Pons VaroHi.—When transverse sections are made through the pons, it is seen to consist of two well-defined parts,