414 HEAD AND NECK. Dissection.—The levator palati muscle has already been seen on the outer aspect of the pharynx in the sinus of Morgagni. To display it fully it is necessary- to remove the wall of the pharynx between the Eustachian tube above, and the upper border of the superior constrictor below, and then follow its fibres into the soft palate. In a well-injected subject the dissector will observe the ascending palatine artery in relation to this muscle. The Levator Palati is a rounded fleshy muscle which arises from the lower and inner border of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and from the rough surface on the under aspect of the apex of the petrous bone in front of the carotid canal. It passes downwards and forwards, crosses the upper border of the superior constrictor, and piercing the pharyn- geal aponeurosis enters the soft palate. Here its fibres spread out below the azygos uvulae and above the anterior or deep portion of the palato-pharyngeus. In front, some of the fibres are inserted into the palatal aponeurosis, but behind this, the larger proportion of the fibres become con- tinuous with the corresponding fasciculi of the opposite side. Tensor or Circumflexus Palati.—This little muscle lies in front of the levator palati. It is flat and band-like, and closely applied to the deep surface of the internal pterygoid muscle. It arises from the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spine of the sphenoid and from the outer aspect of the Eustachian tube. It de- scends perpendicularly and ends in a tendon which turns horizontally inwards under the hamular process. A synovial bursa facilitates the play of the tendon upon the bone. In the soft palate the tendon expands below the deep part of the palato-pharyngeus, and is inserted partly into the trans- verse ridge on the under surface of the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and partly into the palatal aponeurosis with which it blends. Palatal Aponeurosis.—The palatal aponeurosis extends backwards from the posterior margin of the hard palate to give strength and support to the soft palate. At first it is strongly marked, but becomes gradually weaker as it ap-