BASE OF BRAIN. 495 corresponding side of the cerebrum. Turning round the outer aspect of each crus where it passes into the cerebrum will be seen a flattened band, called the optic tract. These bands converge as they pass forwards, and are finally joined together by a short transverse commissural portion, termed the optic chiasma. This chiasma is placed below the hinder end of that portion of the great longitudinal fissure which intervenes between the frontal lobes of the cerebrum, and when the brain is in position it rests upon the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone. The optic 7ierve is continued forwards and outwards from the chiasma and the tract. The crura cerebri, the optic tracts, and the optic chiasma enclose a rhomboidal or lozenge-shaped interval on the base of the brain, which is termed the interpeduncular space. Within the limits of this area the following parts may be seen as we pass from behind forwards:—(i) the locus perforatus posticus; (2) the corpora mammillaria; (3) the tuber cinereum, attached to which is the infundibulum of the pituitary body. These structures form the floor of the third ventricle of the brain. The oculomotor nerves issue from the brain within the interpeduncular space. Each nerve emerges from the inner side of the corresponding crUs cerebri. Locus Perforatus Posticus.—At its posterior angle, im- mediately in front of the pons Varolii, the interpeduncul|ir space is very deep, and is floored by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by numerous small apertures. This is the locus perforatus posticus. From the apertures which are dotted over its surface the postero-mesial basal branches of the posterior cerebral artery have been withdrawn. The Corpora Mammillaria are two small white pea-like eminences placed side by side in front of the locus perforatus posticus. At a later stage of the dissection their connection with the anterior pillars of the fornix will be brought out. The Tuber Cinereum is a slightly raised field of grey matter which occupies the interval between the anterior portions of