232 HEAD AND NECK. The Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage (discus articularis) is a nearly circular meniscus or plate interposed between the inner end of the clavicle and the sternal facet. Its surfaces are accurately moulded upon both. As a general rule it is thicker around its circumference than in the centre, where it is occasionally perforated. In removing the cap- sule of the joint, the dissector must have noticed that by its circumference it is closely attached to this, both in front and behind. Above, it is firmly fixed to the upper edge of the inner end of the clavicle ; below, its margin is thinned and passes outwards under the clavicle to gain attachment to the inner end of the cartilage of the first rib. The part which the interarticular meniscus plays is very apparent. Its function is twofold ; (i) it acts as a cushion, and thus lessens the shock of blows received upon the shoulder; (2) it acts as a bond of union, and prevents the clavicle from being driven upwards upon the top of the sternum when force is applied to its outer end. Synovial Membranes.—The sterno-clavicular joint is provided with two synovial membranes, placed one upon either side of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. These are quite distinct from each other, except in cases where the fibro-cartilage is deficient in its centre. In this case the two synovial cavities communicate. Dissection.—Complete the disarticulation of the clavicle by dividing the attachment of the fibro-cartilage to the first costal arch. By this step the meniscus is removed with the clavicle, and can therefore be more fully examined. Further, the clavicular portion of the sterno- mastoid can now be thrown forward, and the parts under cover of this muscle dissected. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid should not be interfered with until the subclavian and carotid vessels have been studied. Certain structures at the root of the neck must now be displayed. These are :— 1. The scalene muscles. 2. The phrenic nerve. 3. The subclavian vessels and their branches. 4. The cervical pleura.