THE BRAIN. 578 process of the occipital bone and the dorsum sellse of the sphenoid bone. It presents a mesial groove which gradually widens as it is traced upwards. In this lies the basilar artery, but the groove is not caused by this vessel, but is due to the prominence which is produced on either side by the passage upwards through the pons of the pyramidal bundles of the medulla. Where the pons Varolii becomes the cerebellar peduncle the large trigeminal nerve will be seen emerging from its ventral surface nearer its upper than its lower border. With the exception of the restiform bodies, the whole of the medulla enters the lower aspect of the pons, and its con- stituent parts are carried upwards within it. The crura cerebri emerge from its upper aspect. The dorsal surface of the pons cannot be studied at present. It is turned towards the cerebellum, which hides it from view. It forms the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Cerebellum.—The cerebellum is distinguished by the numerous parallel and more or less curved sulci which traverse its surface and give it a foliated appearance. As in the case of the cerebral hemispheres, the grey matter is spread over the entire surface, whilst the white matter forms in the interior a central core. In the cerebellum we recognise a median portion termed the vermis, and two lateral and much larger portions, called the lateral hemispheres. The distinction between these main subdivisions of the organ is not very evident from every point of view. In front and behind there is a marked deficiency or notch (Fig. 313). The posterior notch., termed the incisura marsupialis, is smaller and narrower than the anterior notch. It is bounded laterally by the hinder parts of the cerebellar hemispheres, whilst its bottom is formed by the central lobe or vermis. It is occupied by the falx cerebelli. The an- terior notch, also termed the incisura semilunaris, is shallower but much wider than the marsupial notch. When viewed from above, it is seen to be occupied by the inferior pair of