HEAD AND NECK. canal is called the posterior grey commissure ; the portion in front receives the name of anterior grey commissure. In each crescentic mass of grey matter certain well defined parts may be recognised. The projecting portions which extend behind and in front of the connecting trans- verse grey commissure are termed respectively the posterior and the anterior cornua of grey matter. These can be dis- tinguished from each other at a glance. The anterior cornu is short, thick, and very blunt at its extremity. Further, its extremity falls short of the surface of the cord, and is separated from it by a tolerably thick coating of white matter. Through this the fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots pass on their way to the surface. The thickened end of the anterior cornu is termed the caput cornu, whilst the slightly constricted part close to the grey commissure is called the cervix cornu. The posterior cornu is in most localities in the cord elongated and narrow. Further, it is drawn out to a fine point which almost reaches the bottom of the postero-lateral sulcus. This pointed extremity receives the name of the apex cornu ; the slightly swollen part which succeeds it is the caput cornu ; whilst the slightly constricted part adjoining the grey commissure goes under the name of the cervix cornu. Covering the tip of the posterior cornu there is a substance which cannot be detected by the naked eye, but which becomes very distinct when thin sections of the cord are examined by the microscope. It differs in its composition from the general mass of grey matter, and presents a semi- transparent appearance. It is termed the substantia gela- tinosa of Rolando. Before we refer to the different appearances which are presented by the grey matter in different districts of the cord, it is well to make it perfectly clear that when we apply the terms cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, &c., to different portions of the cord, we do not mean to convey the idea that we are alluding to portions of the cord in relation to the sections of the vertebral column that bear the same names. These