THORACIC CAVITY. 6i of the ventricular part of the heart. This is of advantage in so far that it affords space for the proper action of the aortic valve. Looking upwards into the circular mouth of the aorta, the aortic valve will be seen. It is similar in all respects to the pulmonary valve, only its segments are stronger and thicker, and the sinuses of Valsalva at the root of the aorta are more strongly marked. The aortic valve will be studied more fully at a later stage of the dissection. Septum Ventriculorum.—The septum between the two ventricles is a thick fleshy partition,—the anterior and posterior attachments of which are indicated on the surface of the heart by the anterior and posterior interventricular furrows. Now that both surfaces of the septum are exposed, it will be seen to be thickest near the apex of the heart, and to thin slightly in an upward direction. In its upper and fore part a small portion may be noted which is completely destitute of muscular tissue, and which consists merely of the two layers of endocardium, with some intervening fibrous tissue. This portion is termed the pars membrafiacea septi, and it is of interest from the fact that it is at this point that congenital deficiency of the septum is most liable to occur. The pars membranacea septi forms a portion of the wall of the aortic vestibule, and lies immediately below the con- tiguous ends of the anterior and right posterior flaps of the aortic valve. Action of the Heart.—The above details will be dry and meaning- less unless they are looked at in connection with the action of the heart during life. It is impossible to understand the construction of the heart unless we study at the same time its function. During life, the blood is driven through and from the heart by means of successive rhythmical contractions and dilatations of its walls. But the entire heart does not act simultaneously. First, the auricles contract together, and this is succeeded by the contraction of the ventricles ; in other words, the auricular contractions correspond to the ventricular dilata- tions, and vice versa. But, again, there is a period immediately preced- ing the auricular contraction, during which the entire heart is at rest.