DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 297 At the outer canthus, it divides into two pieces, an upper and a lower, which are attached to the tarsal plates. This ligament is merely a thickening of the palpebral ligaments where they are continuous with each other at the outer margin of the orbit. The internal tarsal liga?nent is a much more important structure. It has a double function to perform, viz. (i) to serve as a tendon of origin for the orbicularis muscle, and (2) to fix the tarsi to the inner margin of the orbit. To obtain a satisfactory view of it, the muscular fibres which spring from its upper and lower margins must be com- pletely removed. The internal tarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band which springs from the nasal process of the superior maxil- lary bone immediately in front of the lachrymal groove. It passes outwards and divides at the inner canthus into two diverging portions which are attached one to each tarsal plate. The superficial surface of the internal tarsal ligament is covered by the integument; the deep surface crosses the lachrymal sac a short distance above its centre and gives to it a fibrous expansion, w^hich is attached behind to the posterior margin of the lachrymal groove. Dissection.—-The dissection of the lower lid is now completed, but in the case of the upper eyelid the dissector must proceed to detach care- fully the superior palpebral ligament from the margin of the orbit, and throw it downwards towards the tarsal plate. This will expose the ex- panded tendon of the levator palpebrae superioris. Levator Palpebrae Superioris.—This muscle arises within the cavity of the orbit. Its tendon spreads out into a wide expansion which enters the basal part of the upper eyelid. It is impossible in the course of an ordinary dissection to make out all the very intricate connections of this tendon. It sphts into three laminae. Of these the superficial layer blends with the superior palpebral ligament, and is carried forwards above the tarsal plate to the deep surface of the