HEAD AND NECK. 214 division is termed the lower or 77mscular triangle: the intermediate space receives the name of carotid triangle; whilst the highest subdivision is called the submaxillary or digastric triangle (Fig. 212). The 7?iuscular triangle is bounded in front by the middle line of the neck, and behind by the sterno-mastoid. Its base is above, and is formed by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, whilst its apex is below at the upper margin of the sternum. The carotid triangle is limited above by the posterior belly of the digastric, and beloiv^ by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Its base is directed backwards, and is formed by the sterno-mastoid, whilst its apex is at the hyoid bone. The digastric triangle is bounded below and behind by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle, and below and in front by the anterior belly of the digastric. Its base is above, and is constituted by the body of the lower jaw, and a line drawn backwards from the angle of the mandible to the sterno-mastoid muscle; its apex points downwards, and is formed by the intermediate tendon of the digastric muscle. Disseciion.—The numerous and diverse structures contained within the anterior triangle must now be displayed. This is a dissection which requires care and some preliminary knowledge of the parts to be exposed. The student is therefore advised to read the general account which is given of the parts which are brought into view, as each sub- division of the space is opened up (p. 215 to p. 221), before undertaking the work. The dissection should be carried out over the entire area at once, and the structures found in one subdivision followed upwards or downwards, as the case may be, into the other subdivisions of the space. It is a common fault with dissectors to fail to open up the digastric triangle until the two lower triangles have been fully dissected. Two small nerves are especially liable to injury, and therefore should be secured as early as possible. They are the thyro-hyoid branch of the hypoglossal nerve and the external laryngeal nerve. The hypoglossal nerve, which will be found crossing the carotid triangle at the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric, should be traced forwards ;