167 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. Superiorly each of the main longitudinal channels com- municates with the occipital and basilar sinuses within the cranium, and gives off a branch which emerges above the neural arch of the atlas to form the commencement of the vertebral vein. Opposite the various intervertebral discs they send off branches which run towards the intervertebral foramina, and, joining the corresponding branches of the posterior intraspinal plexus, form a plexus around the corre- sponding spinal nerve. Meninges of the Spinal Cord—Fig. 200.—The spinal cord, like the brain, with which it is continuous, is enveloped by three membranes termed meninges. The most external investment is a strong fibrous membrane called the dura 7iiater; the second, in order from without inwards, is a non-vascular tunic termed the arachnoid mater; whilst the third and most internal is the pia mater. These mem- ■ branes are directly continuous with the corresponding in- vestments of the brain. Dissection.—The outer surface of the dura mater must now be cleaned. This is effected by removing from the spinal canal the loose areolar tissue, soft fat, and posterior intraspinal veins. It is necessary, also, to carefully define the numerous lateral prolongations which the membrane gives to the spinal nerves. Dura Mater Spinalis—-Fig. 200 {d).—In the spinal canal the dura mater constitutes an exceedingly dense and tough fibrous tube, which extends from the foramen magnum above, to the level of the second or third piece of the sacrum below. Even before this tube of membrane is laid open, the dissector can readily satisfy himself that it is very loosely adapted to the spinal cord and the nerve-roots which form the Cauda equina ; in other words, it is very capacious in comparison with the volume of its contents. Its calibre, moreover, is by no means uniform ; in the cervical and lumbar regions it is considerably wider than in the dorsal region, whilst in the sacral canal it rapidly contracts and