MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 567 the cord opens on the dorsal aspect of the medulla, and the lips of the postero-median fissure are thrust widely apart from each other, so as to constitute the limits of a triangular area, which forms on the posterior surface of the medulla, the lower part of the fossa rhomboidalis., or the floor of the fourth ventricle. The dissector is now in a position to understand the terms " closed " and " open " as applied to different portions of the medulla. The lower half of the medulla, containing as it does the central canal in its interior, is the closed part; the upper half, above the opening of the central canal, which by its dorsal surface forms the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, is the ope?i part of the medulla. The surface of each lateral half of the medulla should now be studied. It is well, however, to defer for a little the examination of the medullary part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The dissector has already noticed two linear rows of nerve fascicles issuing from and entering the medulla on each side. The anterior roiv consists of the roots of the hypoglossal and the uppermost part of the anterior root of the first cervical nerve. They continue upwards on the medulla, the line of the anterior nerve roots of the spina cord, and they emerge along the bottom of a more or less distinct groove. The posterior roiv is formed of the nerve fascicles of the spinal accessory, vagus and glosso- pharyngeal nerves, and they lie in series with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. By these two rows of nerve fascicles, each side of the medulla is divided into three districts, viz., an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior, similar to the surface areas of the three columns on the side of the cord. ■ At first sight, indeed, they appear to be a direct continuation upwards of these portions of the cord ; it is easily demonstrated, how- ever, that this is not the case, and that the fibres in the three columns of the cord undergo a rearrangement as they are traced into the medulla.