PREVERTEBRAL REGION. 385 has been sufficiently examined at a previous stage of the dissection (p. 351); but the dissector is now in a position to observe that the a?iterior primary division of the second cervical nerve turns forwards under cover of the posterior sUp of the first intertransverse muscle, and winds round the outer side of the vertebral artery, to appear behind the anterior slip of the same muscle. Dissection.—The vertebral artery as it traverses the succession of foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae should now be exposed. Remove the intertransverse muscles as well as the muscles still attached to the transverse process of the atlas—viz., the rectus lateralis, the inferior oblique, and the superior oblique. The anterior tubercles and the costal portions of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras should then be snipped off by the bone-pliers. The Vertebral Artery (arteria vertebralis) has previously been traced to the point where it disappears through the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra; it is now seen to proceed vertically upwards through the succession of foramina transversaria until it reaches the foramen in the transverse process of the axis. In this it is directed outwards in order that it may gain the more outwardly placed foramen of the atlas. Upon the upper surface of the atlas it again changes its direction and proceeds backwards, behind the lateral mass, in a groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of that bone. Finally, it turns forwards under the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, pierces the dura mater, and enters the cranium through the foramen magnum. The vertebral artery is accompanied by a sympathetic plexus of nerves derived from the inferior cervical ganglion, whilst the vertebral vein breaks up in a plexiform manner around it. The anterior divisions of the lower six cervical nerves pass outwards behind it; the corresponding division of the first cervical nerve passes forwards internal to it, whilst that of the second nerve turns forward upon its outer aspect; lastly, the posterior primary division of the first VOL. II.—25