HEAD AND NECK. 320 The inferior dental is a sensory nerve, but a few motor fibres from the motor root are prolonged downwards within its sheath as far as the mandibular foramen. At this point they come off as the slender viylo-hyoid nerve. The mylo-hyoid nerve., accompanied by the artery of the same name, pierces the internal lateral ligament and pro- ceeds downwards and forwards in a groove upon the deep surface of the lower jaw to the submaxillary triangle. A narrow prolongation of the internal lateral ligament bridges over the groove and holds the nerve and vessel in position. In the submaxillary triangle the mylo-hyoid nerve has already been dissected. It appears upon the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, issuing from under cover of the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, it breaks up into numerous branches for the supply of two muscles, viz. (i) the mylo-hyoid, and (2) the anterior belly of the digastric. Lingual Nerve.—This nerve is entirely sensory, and is covered in the first part of its course, like the other branches of the inframaxillary nerve, by the external pterygoid muscle. Appearing at the lower border of this muscle, it proceeds downwards and forwards between the internal pterygoid muscle and the mandible and enters the sub- maxillary region, where it will afterwards be traced to the tongue. It is placed in front of and on a slightly deeper plane than the inferior dental nerve. In this region it gives off no branches, but, under cover of the external pterygoid, it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Very frequently, also, a communicating twig passes between it and the inferior dental nerve. The Chorda Tympani is a slender nerve which arises from the facial in the aqueduct of Fallopius. It gains the pterygo-maxillary region by traversing the tympanic cavity and appearing through the inner part of the Glaserian fissure. It will now be seen to run downwards and forwards under cover of the internal lateral ligament of the lower