HEAD AND NECK. 174 In length the filum terminale measures about six inches. The part within the tube of dura mater is termed the filum terminale internujn, the portion outside is distinguished as the filum terminale externum. Spinal Nerves.—Thirty-one spinal nerves take origin from each side of the spinal cord. These are classified into five groups, according to the vertebrae with which they are associated. The dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves cor- respond in number with the number of vertebrae in each of these regions,—thus, there are twelve dorsal, five lumbar, and five sacral nerves, each of which issues from the spinal canal below the vertebra with which it numerically corre- sponds. In the cervical region, however, there are eight nerves, the first of which comes out between the occiput and the atlas, and is therefore distinguished by the special name of the sub-occipital nerve. There is only one coccygeal nerve on each side. Spinal Nerve-Roots—(Fig. 202).—Each spinal nerve springs from the side of the spinal cord by two roots—an anterior and a posterior. Except in the case of the sub- occipital nerve (where, indeed, the posterior root is some- times absent), the posterior nerve-root is the larger of the two. In addition to this, the posterior root is distinguished by possessing an oval gangHon, termed the spinal root- ganglion. There is, likewise, a wide physiological differ- ence between the two roots,—the posterior root is com- posed of sensory fibres, the anterior root consists of motor fibres. Immediately beyond the ganglion the two roots unite to form the spinal nerve-trunk^ which, in consequence, contains a mixture of both motor and sensory nerve-fibres. The mode of attachment of the two nerve-roots to the side of the spinal cord is somewhat different in the two cases. In each instance they are attached to the cord by several separate fasciculi. In the case of the posterior root these enter the cord consecutively along a continuous straight line and at the bottom of a slight furrow. The fasciculi of