TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 307 portion of the ascending ramus of the mandible. Two horizontal cuts must be made; one through the neck of the mandible, and the other immediately above the level of the inferior dental foramen. To find the level of the latter, the handle of the forceps should be thrust for- wards between the ramus and the subjacent soft parts, and carried downwards. Its progress will soon be arrested by the entrance of the inferior dental vessels and nerve into the foramen, and the lower border of the instrument will correspond with the line along which the bone should be cut. Both incisions should be made with the saw, until the outer table of the bone is cut through, and then the bone-pliers may be employed to complete the division. Parts displayed by the above Dissection.—When the fat and areolar tissue are removed, the pterygoid muscles will come into view. The external pterygoid will be recognised from its extending horizontally backwards to the neck of the mandible. The internal pterygoid, embracing the anterior part of the external pterygoid muscle between its two heads of origin, proceeds downwards and backwards upon the deep surface of the ramus of the mandible. It bears very much the same relation to the inner aspect of the ascending ramus, that the masseter presents to its superficial surface. The great blood vessel of the space—the internal maxillary artery — proceeds forwards upon the external pterygoid muscle. The nerves will also be observed to be placed in close relationship to the same muscle. Thus, emerging from between its upper border and the cranial wall at the level of the infra-temporal crest are the masseteric and the two deep temporal nerves; appearing from under cover of its lower border are the mandibular and the lingual nerves : whilst the auriculo-temporal nerve is related to it behind, and the long buccal nerve in front. The former passes backwards under cover of its insertion, and appears behind the temporo-maxillary joint, and the long buccal either pierces it or emerges from between its two heads of origin. The internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw will likewise be seen. It is the thin strip of membrane upon which the inferior dental or mandibular nerve rests.