142 HEAD AND NECK. the sterno-mastoid, and are carried downwards and back- wards across the space parallel with, but at a lower level than, the spinal accessory nerve. This, together with the fact that they are somewhat smaller than the spinal acces- sory, is sufficient to distinguish them from that nerve. They finally disappear under the anterior border of the trapezius. Dissectio7i.—On the second day after the subject has been placed on its face, the trapezius may be reflected. This must be done in conjunction with the dissector of the arm. First separate the muscle from the occipital bone, and then divide it about half-an-inch from the spines of the vertebrse The muscle can now be raised and thrown outwards towards its inser- tion. On its deep surface the spinal accessory nerve, the cervical nerves of supply, and the superficial cervical artery will be noticed. It is the duty of the dissector of the upper limb to dissect these, but the dissector of the head and neck should trace the superficial cervical artery to its origin from the transversalis colli. The attachments of the levator anguli scapulae must also be defined. Two nerve-twigs from the cervical plexus, which lie on its surface and finally enter its substance, have already been secured. Further, passing downwards under cover of this muscle, the nerve to the rhomboids and the posterior scapular artery will be found. Almost invariably the nerve to the rhomboids gives one or two twigs to the levator anguli scapulce. The Levator Anguli Scapulae (levator scapulae) arises by four slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the upper four cervical vertebrae. These unite to form an elongated muscle which extends downwards and backwards to be inserted into that portion of the vertebral border of the scapula which is placed above the root of the spine. As already noted, the nerve supply of the levator anguli scapulae comes from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and also from the nerve to the rhomboids. The Transversalis Colli Artery will be seen terminating near the outer margin of the levator anguli scapulae, by dividing into the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. The former of these proceeds upon the superficial aspect of the levator anguli scapulae, whilst the latter passes under cover of that muscle. It is the duty of the dissector