36 THORAX. sac. The superior vena cava, which Hes immediately to the right of the ascending part of the aorta, is a good example of this. Its lower half is enclosed within the fibrous sac, but only two-thirds of its circumference has a serous cover- ing. The inferior vena cava, which pierces the base of the pericardium, and at once opens into the right auricle of the heart, receives a very small investment. When the apex of the heart is drawn forwards and up- wards, a deep, blind recess of the serous pericardium will be seen, passing upwards behind it, between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. Lastly, separate the left pulmonary artery from the upper of the two left pulmonary veins, as they lie within the fibrous pericardium. Stretching across the interval between them will be seen a prominent semilunar fold of the serous pericardium. This is the " vestigial fold of Marshall^ It contains between its two layers a minute fibrous band (ligamentum cavae sinistrse), the remnant of the left superior vena cava of the embryo. Remains of the Thymus.—The thymus gland, which is a very conspicuous object in the superior mediastinum of the foetus and young child, is only represented in the adult by some condensed tissue of a brownish colour, placed above the level of the aortic arch, and in front of the innominate and left common carotid arteries as they spring from the arch. A few thymic branches from the internal mammary artery enter the wasted remains of the gland, and some small veins pass from it and join the sub- jacent left innominate venous trunk. Dissection.—Remove the thymus, and dissect out the two innominate veins and the superior vena cava. The left innominate vein will be seen crossing the superior mediastinum from left to right. The short right innominate vein is placed in the upper and right part of the superior mediastinum. The union of these two trunks forms the vena cava superior. The tributaries which enter these veins must also be secured. One, the left superior intercostal vein, ascends upon the aortic arch to reach the left innominate.