332 HEAD AND NECK. more well-marked branches (rami dorsales linguae) which pass upwards under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle to end in twigs to the mucous membrane covering the back part of the dorsum of the tongue. Some twigs are also supplied to the muscular substance of the organ, and a few may be traced backwards into the tonsil. The sublingual artery (arteria sublingualis) emerges from under cover of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and then ascends upon the genio-hyo-glossus to reach the sub- lingual gland which it supplies. It also gives branches to the surrounding muscles and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the submental branch of the facial artery. The ranine artery runs forwards upon the inferior aspect of the tongue as far as the tip. It can easily be exposed by dividing the mucous membrane along its course, when it will be seen to lie close to the attachment of the fraenum of the tongue, and to be continued forwards in the interval between the genio-hyo-glossus and the inferior lingualis muscle. Its course is tortuous to allow of the protrusion or elongation of the organ, and it gives off numerous branches. Lingual Veins.—The lingual artery is accompanied by two small venae comites which lie with it under cover of the hyo-glossus; but the main vein of the tongue, termed the ranine, accompanies the hypoglossal nerve upon the super- ficial surface of the hyo-glossus muscle. These veins receive tributaries corresponding more or less closely with the branches of the artery, and they open into the common facial vein, or perhaps directly into the internal jugular vein. The Stylo-hyoid Ligament is the last structure to be examined in this dissection. It is a fibrous cord which springs from the tip of the styloid process and passes down- wards and forwards to be attached under cover of the hyo- glossus muscle to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It is not uncommon to find it partially ossified j in other cases it may assume a ruddy hue and contain muscular fibres.