38o HEAD AND NECK. PREVERTEBRAL REGION. The following are the structures to be displayed in this dissection :—• Vertebral artery. Dissection. — In order that we may obtain a proper view of the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles, it is necessary to make a some- what complicated dissection. The fore part of the skull bearing the pharynx must be separated from the back part of the skull and the cervical portion of the vertebral column. Place the preparation upside down, so that the cut margin of the skull rests upon the table, and, having divided the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve, and the sympathetic cord on each side at level of the neck of the first rib, draw the trachea and oesophagus, together with the great blood vessels and nerves, forwards from the anterior surface of the vertebral column. This separation must be effected right up to the base of the skull. At this point great caution must be observed, other- wise the pharyngeal wall or the insertions of the prevertebral muscles will be damaged. The base of the skull having been reached, the point of the knife should be carried across the basilar process of the occipital bone between the pharynx and vertebral muscles, so as to divide the thick investing periosteum. The basilar process must now be divided by means of a chisel. Still retaining the part upside down, place the skull so that its floor rests upon the end of a wooden block. Then apply the edge of the chisel to the under surface of the basilar process, adjust it accurately in the interval between the pharyngeal wall and the prevertebral muscles, and with a wooden mallet drive it through the base of the skull, inclining it, at the same time, slightly backwards. The next step in the dissection consists in making two saw-cuts through the cranial wall. The head having been placed upon its side, the saw must be applied to the outer aspect of the skull half-an-inch behind the mastoid process, and carried obliquely forwards and inwards to reach a point immediately behind the jugular foramen. The same saw-cut must be repeated upon the opposite side of the head. To complete the dissection the dissector must again have recourse to the chisel. Placing the preparation so that the floor of the cranium looks upwards, divide the base of the skull, on each side, in the interval Prevertebral muscles. Intertransverse muscles. Cervical nerves. Vertebral vein. Vertebral and cranio-verte- bral articulations.