334 HEAD AND NECK. from its deep or inner surface close to its root, and extends downwards and forwards to gain the side of the pharynx. Here it disappears under cover of the upper border of the middle constrictor muscle, and its fibres spread out, to be inserted for the most part into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage; a certain proportion, however, are lost in the wall of the pharynx. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle is supplied by a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Dissectioit.—Snip through the base of the styloid process with the bone-pliers, and throw it and its attached muscles downwards and forwards. The internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries may now be followed up to the base of the skull. The glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves, and the superior cervical ga7iglion, with their various connections and branches, must at the same time be dissected. This is an exceedingly difficult dissection. A dense and tough fascia envelops these structures, and a great amount of patience is required to trace the branches of the nerves through it. One nerve—the pharyngeal branch of the vagtis—which proceeds downwards and forwards upon the superficial or outer aspect of the internal carotid, is especially liable to injury, and must therefore be borne in mind from the very outset of the dissection. The internal larnygeal and the external larnygeal nerves have been previously displayed in the anterior triangle of the neck. These, if traced upwards, will lead to the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, which is carried downwards upon the deep aspect of the internal carotid artery. At the base of the skull, all the nerve-trunks will be found making their appearance close together in the interval between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery ; whilst behind the vein, the rectus lateralis muscle and the first loop of the cervical plexus will be seen. The Internal Carotid Artery (arteria carotis interna) is one of the two terminal branches of the common carotid, and commences at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. From this point it proceeds upwards in the neck in a vertical direction, until it reaches the base of the skull; here it disappears from view by entering the carotid canal of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, through which it reaches the interior of the cranium. The internal carotid artery can therefore be very appropriately