377 CHECK AND SUSPENSORY LIGAMENTS. into the eyeball within this capsule, and they gain its interior by piercing the membrane opposite the equator of the globe (Fig. 246). The lips of the openings through which the four recti muscles pass are prolonged backwards upon the muscles, in the form of sheaths, very much in the same manner that the infundibuliform fascia is prolonged upon the spermatic cord from the internal abdominal ring. These sheaths gradually become more and more attenuated, until at last they blend with the perimysium of the muscular bellies. In the case of the superior oblique muscle the corre- sponding prolongation is only related to its reflected portion ; it reaches the pulley and there it ends by becoming attached to its margin. The sheath of the inferior oblique may be traced upon the muscle as far as the floor of the orbit. The inner or ocular edge of each of the four apertures through which the recti muscles pass is strengthened by a vertical slip of fibrous tissue (Lockwood). The importance of these slips will be understood when we remember that the capsule of Tenon is at various points firmly bound to the bony wall of the orbit. They therefore act as pulleys, and protect the globe of the eye from pressure during con- traction of the muscles. The aperture for the superior oblique is not furnished with such a slip, and it is doubtful if the opening for the inferior oblique muscle possesses one. Dissection.—An admirable view of the relations which the capsule of Tenon presents to the eyeball and the tendons of the ocular muscles can be obtained by the following dissection :—-Divide the outer canthus of the eyelids as far out as the margin of the orbital opening. Pull the eyelids widely apart, so as to expose as much as possible of the anterior face of the eyeball. Next divide the conjunctiva by a circular incision just outside the cornea. At this point the capsule of Tenon is so intimately connected with the conjunctiva that it is divided at the same time. Now raise carefully both conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule from the surface of the eyeball, and spread them out round the orbital opening, as is depicted in Fig. 246. The openings in the capsule of Tenon for the tendons of the ocular muscles and the thickened margins of these apertures are well seen. Note also the sheaths which are given to the muscles.