SIDE OF THE NECK. 199 and fleshy, with only a few tendinous fibres intermixed, and it arises from the inner third of the upper surface of the shaft of the clavicle. A narrow interval separates these heads below, but at a higher level the sternal portion overlaps the clavicular, whilst half-way up the neck they both unite into a fleshy mass which ascends to the mastoid process and occiput. Here the muscle expands somewhat. In front, it is thick and tendinous, and is inserted into the fore part and outer surface .of the mastoid process; behind, it is thin and aponeurotic, and is inserted into rather more than the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. In the dissection of the back, this latter part of the muscle has been detached from the occiput. Dissection.—The posterior triangle of the neck should be dissected first. For this purpose the shoulder must be depressed and the head pulled well over to the opposite side and supported upon a block. This interferes, of course, with the dissection of the axilla. It is necessary, therefore, that the dissectors of the head and neck, and of the upper limb, should arrange to work at different hours. Again, the lower part of the posterior triangle, and the upper part of the axilla, constitute a region of the highest importance to both .dissectors, seeing that it is here the great blood-vessels and nerves leave the root of the neck and enter the arm. Arrangements, therefore, must be made for each to have an opportunity of studying these structures. But in this a difficulty arises. Four days are required to complete the dissection of the axilla, whilst two days are amply sufficient for the dissection of the superficial parts of the neck and the posterior triangle. It is not necessary, how- ever, that the dissector of the head and neck should stop work. After he has displayed the parts in the space as far as he can without dividing the clavicle, he may proceed with the dissection of the anterior triangle, and on the fourth day return to the posterior triangle and complete the work with the co-operation of the dissector of the arm. The upper part of the posterior triangle has already been displayed in the dissection of the posterior aspect of the neck (p. 141), but it can only be studied in its entirety when the subject is placed upon its back. The trapezius which has been reflected should be restored as far as possible to its natural position and retained by means of a stitch. When the investing cervical fascia which bridges over the lower part of the posterior triangle between the trapezius and the sterno-mastoid muscles is removed, a variable amount of fatty areolar tissue is exposed