207 SIDE OF THE NECK. by—(i) the splenius capitis; (2) the levator anguli scapulae ; and (3) by the scalenus medius and posticus. At the apex of the triangle an additional factor may sometimes be observed—-viz., a small portion of the complexus. In the supra-clavicular triangle the floor lies very deeply. It is formed by the scalenus medius and posticus, a portion of the first rib, and a small part of the first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle. Section of the Clavicle.—In order that a satisfactory view may be obtained of the nerves forming the brachial plexus, it is necessary to remove the middle third of the clavicle. This, of course, can only be done when the dissector of the upper limb has completed the dissection ,of the axilla. Saw through the clavicle at two points—viz., at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior margin of the trapezius—and remove the intermediate piece of bone, after having carefully detached it from the subclavius. The nerve to the subclavius should now be traced to its distribution. Then divide the fibres of the subclavius which still adhere to the acromial third of the clavicle, and throw the muscle inwards. This will allow the shoulder to drop well backwards. Brachial Plexus.—^This great nervous plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and the greater part of the large anterior primary division of the first dorsal nerve. Above, the plexus is further reinforced by a very small twig of communication which passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical nerve, whilst below, a similar connecting twig not infrequently passes upwards in front of the neck of the second rib from the second to the first dorsal nerve. The five brachial nerves are brought into connection with the middle and inferior ganglia of the cervical sympathetic by means of fine rami communicantes. The great brachial nerves emerge from the interval between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius, and proceed downwards and outwards through the lower part of the posterior triangle towards the axilla. The manner in which they unite to form the plexus is upon the whole very