HEAD AND NECK. 376 ately to the outer side of the opening of the nasal duct. It passes outwards below the inferior rectus muscle, and, in- clining slightly backwards, ends in a thin membranous tendon, which gains insertion into the outer aspect of the sclerotic coat of the eyeball under cover of the rectus externus. This insertion is not far from that of the superior oblique, but is placed farther back. A branch of the inferior division of the third nerve has been traced to the posterior margin of the inferior oblique muscle. The Capsule of Tenon is a firm, loose membrane in re- lation to the globe of the eye. Its connections are some- what complicated, and they cannot in every detail be satisfactorily displayed in an ordinary dissection. It may be studied from a three-fold point of view—(i) in its connection with the eyeball; (2) in its connections with the muscles inserted into the globe of the eye; and (3) in its connections w^ith the walls of the orbit. The relation w^hich the capsule of Tenon exhibits to the eyeball is very simple. The membrane is spread over the posterior five-sixths of the globe—the cornea alone being free from it. In front it lies under the ocular conjunctiva, with which it is intimately connected, and it ends by blend- ing with the conjunctiva close to the margin of the cornea. Behind it fuses with the sheath of the optic nerve, where the latter pierces the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the membrane (/.^., the surface towards the globe of the eye) is smooth, and is connected to the eyeball by some soft yielding and humid areolar tissue, the interval between them in fact constituting an extensive lymph space. Its posterior surface is in contact with the orbital fat, to w^hich it is loosely adherent, while farther forwards, as we have noted, this surface is firmly attached to the ocular conjunctiva. It is apparent, therefore, that by this membrane a socket is formed for the eyeball, in which it can glide with the greatest freedom. The tendons of the various ocular muscles are inserted