HEAD AND NECK. 122 ing the dura mater behind the dorsum sellse of the sphenoid bone; the portio dura or facial nerve, the pars intermedia, and the portio mollis or auditory nerve, disappearing into the internal auditory meatus; the glosso-pharyngeal,t\\Q. vagus, and the spinal accessory nerves leaving the skull through the jugular foramen ; and the two slips of the hypoglossal nerve piercing the dura mater over the anterior condyloid foramen, will each in turn come into view upon either side, and each must be divided in succession. In the case of the three nerves passing out of the cranium through the jugular foramen, the dissector should endeavour to leave the spinal accessory of the right side intact within the cranium, by dividing its roots of origin from the medulla, whilst on the other side he removes it with the brain. This nerve will be readily recog- nised from its ascending from the spinal canal into the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum. It is only necessary now for the dissector to thrust the knife into the spinal canal, and divide the vertebral arteries as they turn forwards upon the upper part of the spinal cord, and then sever at a lower level the spinal cord, the spinal accessory nerve of the left side, and the roots of the first pair of spinal nerves. By letting the head fall well backwards, and gently dislodging the medulla and cerebellum, the whole brain can be removed. The veins of Galen, as they pass from the interior of the brain to enter the straight sinus, are ruptured by this proceeding. Preservation of the Brain.—In order that the brain may be studied to best advantage, it is necessary that it should be subjected to some hardening reagent. Methylated spirit, or a mixture of this with Mliller's fluid, gives good resuhs. The dissector must obtain a vessel large enough to hold the brain, and, at the same time, allow the harden- ing reagent to surround and cover it completely. It must likewise be provided with an accurately fitting lid to prevent evaporation. A small amount of cotton wadding should be arranged at the bottom of the vessel, in the form of a nest, so as to preserve, as far as possible, the natural form of the brain. The brain should be placed upon this, with its base or lower surface uppermost, and the meninges of the base should be torn across, so as to give free admission to the fluid. It is well also