HEAD AND NECK. 276 fasciculi are often derived, and it lies on the same plane as those slender slips which the orbicularis oris sends down- wards from its lower margin to the skin of the cheek. It is a slender fleshy bundle which arises from the anterior and lower part of the zygomatic arch in front of the zygo- maticus major, and passes downwards and forwards to join the outer margin of the levator labii superioris. Levator Anguli Oris (musculus caninus).—The origin of this muscle is hidden by the levator labii superioris. It springs from the upper part of the canine fossa, immediately below the infra-orbital foramen, and proceeds downwards and outwards to the angle of the mouth. Here some of its fasciculi mingle with those of the orbicularis and enter the loiver lip., whilst others gain a direct insertion into the skin. It should be noticed that the bundle of fibres which is given by the depressor anguli oris to the upper lip, and the bundle which is contributed by the levator anguli oris to the lower lip, decussate with each other at the angle of the mouth (Fig. 226). The Depressor Labii Inferioris (quadratus labii inferioris) is a quadrate muscle partially hidden by the depressor anguh oris which overlaps it (Fig. 224). It springs from the lower jaw by a linear origin which extends from the symphysis to a point a short distance beyond the mental foramen, and passing upwards, with an inclination inwards, it joins the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the skin of the lower lip. Dissection.—The buccinator muscle must be cleaned with care, because branches from the facial nerve and the long buccal nerve form a plexus upon its surface, and great numbers of nerves enter it, both for the pur- pose of supplying it, and also for the purpose of reaching the mucous membrane of the mouth which lines its deep surface. The Buccinator Muscle occupies the interval between the upper and lower jaws. Above and below its fibres take origin from the outer surface of the alveolar margins of both of