THORAX. 70 one plexus. The deep cardiac plexus is further massed in two portions—a right and a left—which are united across the middle line by many communicating filaments. The superficial cardiac plexus is small in comparison with the deep plexus. It has already been examined, and has been observed to lie in the concavity of the aortic arch in front of the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. The deep cardiac plexus is situated behind the aortic arch upon the lower end of the trachea. It is therefore placed on a deeper plane and at a higher level than the superficial plexus. The branches which enter the different parts of the cardiac plexus are derived from the cervical portions of the gangliated cords of the sympathetic, from the pneumogastric nerves, and from the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The sympathetic cardiac branches are three in number on each side—one from each cervical ganglion—and they are termed respectively, the upper^ middle^ and lower sympathetic cardiac branches. The upper sympathetic cardiac branch of the left side has already been traced across the aortic arch into the superficial cardiac plexus. The middle and lower branches of the left side enter the thorax between the left subclavian and left common carotid arteries, and join the left portion of the deep cardiac plexus on the trachea. The three sympathetic cardiac branches of the right side join the right portion of the deep plexus. As they enter the thoracic inlet they pass behind the subclavian artery; in some cases, however, the upper and middle nerves may be noticed to pass in front of that vessel. Within the thorax they run obliquely downwards and inwards behind the innominate artery to reach their destination on the side of the trachea. The cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerves are given off partly in the neck and partly in the thorax. The cervical branches, with the exception of the lowest on each side, as a rule, join the sympathetic cardiac branches, and thus lose their identity. The lowest cervical cardiac branch