HEAD AND NECK. 292 of the helix, ox scaphoid fossa—vs^ placed between the helix and the antihelix, and the other—the fossa of the antihelix, or triangular fossa—\^ situated between the two diverging terminal limbs of the antihelix. The pinna may now be dissected. It consists of a thin plate of yellow fibro-cartilage, covered by integument. It is fixed in position by certain ligaments, and possesses two sets of feeble muscles—viz., one group termed the extrinsic nmscles, passing to the cartilage from the aponeur- osis of the occipito-frontalis and the mastoid process, and a second group, in connection with the cartilage alone, and therefore called the intrinsic muscles. f Anterior. Ligaments,. . Ip^g^.^i^r. {Attrahens. ^ Attollens. | Already examined, p. 105. Retrahens.) (Musculus helicis major.' Musculus helicis minor. Musculus tragicus. Musculus anti-tragicus, Musculus transversus. Upon the cranial face of Musculus obliquus. J the cartilage. The skin should be carefully removed from the entire extent of the external auricle. Particular care must be taken in the regions where the intrinsic muscles are placed. The auricular cartilage extends throughout the entire pinna, with the exception of the lobule and the portion between the tragus and the helix. These portions are composed merely of integument, fatty tissue, and condensed connective tissue. The shape of the cartilage corre- sponds with that of the pinna itself It shows the same elevations and depressions, and by its elasticity it serves to maintain the form of the auricle. But it also enters into the formation of the cartilaginous or outer portion of the external auditory meatus. By its inner margin this part of the cartilage is firmly fixed by fibrous tissue to the rough outer edge of the auditory process of the temporal bone, and it is deficient above and in front. Here the tube of the meatus is completed by tough fibrous membrane, which stretches between the tragus and the com- mencement of the helix. In a successful dissection of the cartilage of the pinna, two other points will attract the attention of the student. The first is a deep slit. Intrinsic muscles, Upon the outer face of the cartilage.