397 MOUTH AND PHARYNX. mouth consists of two sub-divisions, viz., a smaller anterior part which is bounded in front by the lips and cheeks, and behind by the teeth and gums, and a large part, the mouth proper, which is placed within the teeth. The mucous lining of the mouth should be thoroughly cleansed, and the two sub-divisions of the cavity examined from the front through the oral fissure. The anterior part of the mouth which passes round the teeth and gums is a mere fissure except when the cheeks are inflated with air. It is into this subdivision of the mouth that the parotid duct opens (p. 268). Above and below it is bounded by the reflection of the mucous mem- brane from the lips and cheeks on to the alveolar margins of the maxillary and mandibular bones. In front it opens upon the face by means of the oral fissure, whilst posteriorly., be- hind the last molar tooth, it communicates on each side by means of a distinct aperture with the cavity of the mouth proper. When all the teeth are in place the existence of this communication is of importance in cases of spasmodic closure of the jaws, because through it fluids may be introduced into the posterior part of the buccal cavity. The mouth proper is that part of the buccal cavity which is placed within the teeth. It is bounded in front and laterally by the gums and teeth, whilst behind it communi- cates by means of the isthmus faucium with the pharynx (Fig. 253). The floor is formed by the tongue and the mucous membrane which stretches to this from the inner aspect of the mandible; the roof is vaulted, and is com- posed of the hard and soft palate (Fig. 253). When the mouth is closed the dorsum of the tongue is applied to the roof, and the cavity is almost completely obliterated. Into this part of the buccal cavity the ducts of the submaxillary glands (Wharton's ducts) and some of the ducts of the sub- lingual glands (ducts of Rivini) open (pp. 326 and 328). The various parts which bound the oral cavity may now be examined in turn.