226 HEAD AND NECK. importance. The fact, however, that a large branch of the superior thyroid artery is generally found in relation to its upper border, should make the operator hesitate before having recourse, in all cases, to this expedient for gaining additional space. In the child it is frequently necessary to combine the high operation of tracheotomy with that of laryngotomy—viz., by cutting through the cricoid cartilage. The low operation is a formidable undertaking. It is true that there is a greater length of tube to be operated upon; but this is situated very deeply, and the surgeon encounters many difficulties before it is reached. If the dissector reflect upon the structures which intervene between this part of the trachea and the surface, he will fully realise this ; and he must bear in mind that these difficulties are greatly intensified in the living subject by the engorged state of the veins, and the convulsive movements of the windpipe as the patient struggles for breath. In the child, the thymus body interposes an additional obstacle; and this, combined with the more limited space, the small calibre and great mobility of the trachea, render the operation, in such cases, a very serious responsibility. In the low operation, the trachea must be opened in an upward direction, so as to avoid injury to the innominate artery and left innominate vein, which are placed in front of it at the upper margin of the sternum. Infra-hyoid Muscles.—These are a series of flat, narrow, band-like muscles which lie upon the trachea, thyroid body, and larynx. They are disposed in two strata—viz., the omo-hyoid and the sterno-hyoid constituting a superficial layer; and the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid a deep layer. The omo-hyoid (omohyoideus), as we have noted, is a two- bellied muscle. The posterior belly springs from the upper border of the scapula and the suprascapular ligament. It crosses the posterior triangle of the neck, so as to divide it into an occipital and supraclavicular portion, and finally terminates in the intermediate tendon. This tendon lies under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is held in position by a strong process of fascia derived from the cervical aponeurosis, and firmly attached below to the sternum and the first costal cartilage. The anterior belly emerges from under cover of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and takes an almost vertical course through the anterior triangle. It is inserted into the lower border