HEAD AND NECK. 3i8 The 7nasseteric nerve is directed outwards above the external pterygoid muscle, and, passing through the sigmoid notch behind the posterior border of the temporal muscle, it enters the hinder and upper part of the deep surface of the masseter. In the substance of this muscle it may be traced with the companion artery downwards and forwards to its lower and fore part. Before reaching the masseter, it gives one or two twigs to the temporo-maxillary joint. The deep temporal nerves are usually two in number, and are termed a7iterior and posterior according to the position they occupy in the temporal fossa. The posterior 7ierve is the smaller of the two, and frequently arises by a common root with the masseteric. Both deep temporal nerves pass outwards above the external pterygoid and then turn up- wards upon the bony wall of the cranium. After a short course they end in twigs which penetrate the substance of the temporal muscle. The Long Buccal Nerve (nervus buccinatorius)is the largest of the branches proceeding from the anterior division of the inferior maxillary nerve. It proceeds outwards between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle and then runs downwards and forwards under cover of the temporal muscle, and also of the anterior border of the masseter, to reach the outer surface of the buccinator muscle. Here it has been seen to form with branches of the facial nerve the buccal plexus, and to be distributed to the mucous mem- brane and skin of the cheek (p. 288). The long buccal is a sensory nerve, and all the sensory fibres in the anterior division of the inferior maxillary nerve enter into its composition. A few motor fibres, however, are also prolonged into it; these come off from it in two branches, viz. (i) in the nerve to the external pterygoid, which as a rule arises in common with the long buccal and at once sinks into the deep surface of this muscle; and (2) in a third twig of supply to the temporal muscle. This temporal bra?ich springs from the long buccal after it has