TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 315 The muscles on each side which are chiefly engaged in producing these movements are the following :—(i) depressors—the platysma, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of the digastric ; (2) elevators—the masseter,internal pterygoid, temporal; (3)protractors—the external ptery- goid, and to some extent the internal pterygoid and the superficial fibres of the masseter ; (4) retractor—the posterior fibres of the temporal ; (5) lateral movement is produced by certain of the muscles of opposite sides acting alternately. Reflection of External Pterygoid.—The head of the lower jaw should now be disarticulated and thrown forwards with the attached external pterygoid muscle. It is well to detach the interarticular fibro- cartilage with the head of the bone, in order that it may be more thoroughly examined. Great care must be taken not to injure the auriculo-temporal nerve, which passes backwards in close proximity to the deep aspect of the joint. When the disarticulation is complete, the muscle may be turned forwards by gently insinuating the head of the jaw under the internal maxillary artery. The reflection of the external pterygoid muscle brings into view, after a little dissection, the infraniaxillary division of the trigeminal nerve, emerging from the foramen ovale, and breaking up into its branches of distribution. The slender chorda tympani will likewise be found pro- ceeding downwards and forwards to join the lingual nerve, and the middle meningeal, tympanic, and small meningeal arte^'ies may be traced to the points where they leave the space. Middle and Small Meningeal and Tympanic Arteries.— The middle meningeal artery (arteria meningea media) has already been seen arising from the first part of the internal maxillary artery. It proceeds upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and disappears from view by entering the foramen spinosum, and thus gaining the cranial cavity (p. 133). It will generally be observed to be em- braced by the two heads of origin of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small meningeal (ramus meningeus accessorius) and tympanic (arteria tympanica) arteries arise more frequently from the preceding vessel than from the trunk of the internal maxillary. The small meningeal inclines forwards and upwards, and enters the cranial cavity by passing through the foramen ovale; the tympa?iic runs