HEAD AND NECK. 268 In relation to this surface, and under cover of the fascia, there are usually one or two small lymphatic glands. The deep surface of the gland is in relation to many important structures, and is moulded upon the various parts with which it is in contact. It rests upon the styloid process and the muscles which proceed from it, and is closely related to the internal jugular vein and the vagus, spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. A portion of the gland substance (sometimes called the glenoid lobe) occupies the posterior or tympanic part of the glenoid fossa, whilst in front, another portion extends for- wards for a short distance under cover of the ramus of the mandible and the internal pterygoid muscle. The fascial connections of the parotid gland deserve some attention. The recess in which it lies is lined by a well- marked fascia, which separates it from subjacent structures, and we have noted the parotid fascia upon its superficial aspect. The entire gland is enveloped, therefore, in a strong envelope, which sends numerous strong septa into its sub- stance, and accentuates its lobular appearance. The parotid fascia presents very important connections. Above, it is attached to the zygoma; behind, it is attached to the meatus auditorius, and below that, it splits to enclose the sterno- mastoid; in front, it is continuous with the fascia over the masseter, whilst below, it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia. Parotid Duct.—This is also called Stenson's duct. It issues from the anterior border of the gland, and proceeds forwards upon the masseter muscle about half-an-inch below the zygoma. In relation to it above will be seen the socia parotidis and the transverse facial artery, whilst accompany- ing it below, are some branches of the facial nerve. At the anterior border of the masseter, it dips inwards, and, piercing the buccinator, runs forwards for a short distance between this muscle and the mucous membrane. Finally, at a point corresponding with the second molar tooth of the upper jaw,