THORACIC CAVITY. 85 maybe studied (Figs. 178, 176, 177, 180, and 181). It will be seen that in the posterior mediastinum it lies behind the oesophagus, but in the superior mediastinum it is placed upon the left side of the oesophagus. In the former situation, before the parts are disturbed by dissection, it can readily be exposed by raising the right lung and dividing the right mediastinal pleura; in the latter situation, the left hmg must be raised and the left mediastinal pleura divided. As it passes upwards through the thorax, the thoracic duct pursues a somewhat wavy or flexuous course. It frequently breaks up into two or more branches, which unite again to form a single trunk. It is provided at intervals with valves of two segments, and these, when the duct is injected, give it a beaded or nodulated appearance. The valves are more especially numerous in the upper part of the duct. Thoracic Lymphatic Glands.—Throughout the dissection of the thorax the dissector has, from time to time, met with groups of lymph- atic glands. These are of considerable importance, seeing that their enlargement in disease is not unfrequently the cause of serious thoracic trouble. The following are the chief groups:—(i.) Two chains of minute glands, which are placed in relation to the anterior thoracic wall and follow the course of the internal mammary vessels. They are termed sternal glands, and are joined by lymphatic vessels from the anterior thoracic wall, the mammary glands, the front part of the diaphragm, and the upper part of the front wall of the abdomen. (2.) Two chains of glands on the posterior thoracic wall—one on either side of the spine in relation to the vertebral extremities of the ribs. They are very minute, and offsets from these chains accompany the inter- costal vessels between the intercostal muscles. They are therefore called the intercostal glajids, and they receive the lymphatics of the posterior thoracic wall. (3.) Anterior mediastinal glands, two or three in number, and receiving lymphatics from the diaphragm and upper surface of the liver. They occupy the lower open part of the anterior media- stinum. (4.) Posterior mediastinal glands, following the course of the thoracic aorta, and joined by lymphatics from the diaphragm, peri- cardium, and oesophagus. (5.) Superior mediastinal glands^ an important group, eight to ten in number, and placed in relation to the aortic arch. The lymphatics of the heart, pericardium, and thymus body enter them. (6.) Bronchial glands, continuous above with the preceding, and massed chiefly in the interval between the two bronchi.