THE TYMPANIC CAVITY OR MIDDLE EAR. 595 an exceedingly delicate layer over the outer surface of the membrana tynipani. If (lie subject is sli^litly <loc-()nii)()so(l tlie culicular lining; of (ho nu"alus may l)c drawn oiil eiilirc, like ihc fin^or of a i;Iovc, and the epidermal covering of the mend)raiia tympani is thus demonstrated. Dissection.—The tympanic cavity can be most conveniently opened for inspiH-lion by llie renioval of its roof. 'I'he roof is fornu-d b)' a thin scale of bone (legmen tympani) which extends beyond llu- lin\i(s of the tympanum and covers in llic canal lor the tensor tympani in front and the mastoidal antrum behind. An opi-ning should be made lhrout;li the tei;inen tympani, innncdialcl)' exlcrnal to the elevation formed by the superior semicircular canal, and about three-eiLjhths of an inch in front of the superior border of the |)t'lr<)us bone. This will open inio llie mastoidal antrum. The openint; can then be cautiously t'ldar^'d with chisel and bono forceps until the whole of the tej;men tymiiani is i)icked away [necemcal. The roof of the internal auditory meatus should also be carefully removed with mallet and chisel. The mastoidal antrum, the tympanum with its contents, the osseous ])ortion of the I'aistachian lube, the tensor tympani muscle, and the auditory and lacial nerves are now displayed. The Mastoidal Antrum is a large recess or air-chamber placed behind the tynipaiuim, and communicating by a relatively large o[)ening with that cavity. It is lined with mucous membrane, which is continuous with the lining membrane of thc^ tynipaiuim. The mastoid jM'ocess is also occupied by the mastoid cells. 'i'he greater number of these communicate with the mastoidal antrum, are liiunl with mucous membrane, and contain air. Still it is well to bear in mind that, as a gentaal rule, a certain propor- tion of the cells situated in the lower and back part of the process are filled with marrow. 'I'he term pneiiiiialic mastoid process is applied when all the cells contain air; and the term diplo'ctic mastoid process when the cells contain marrow. The Tympanic Cavity or Middle Ear is a small chamber filled with air, which is i)laced between the bottom of tlu; meatus externus and the internal ear or labyrinth, liehind it communicates by a relatively large orifice with the mas-