THORAX. 26 front of the pericardium in the sinus costo-mediastinales. In full in- spiration, behind the upper two pieces of the gladiolus of the sternum, they are only separated from each other by the two layers of mediastinal pleura, and as a general rule the left lung slightly overlaps in this locality the right lung (Fig. 159). But there are some points in which the two lungs differ from each other: (i) The right lung is sHghtly larger than the left, in the proportion of 11 to 10. (2) The right lung is shorter and wider than the left lung. This difference is due to the great bulk of the right lobe of the liver, which elevates the right cupola of the diaphragm to a higher level than the left cupola, and likewise to the heart and pericardium, projecting more to the left than the right, and thus diminishing the width of the left lung. (3) The anterior sharp margin of the right lung is more or less straight; the corresponding margin of the left lung presents, in its lower part, a marked angular deficiency {incisura cardiacd) for the reception of the apex of the heart and the pericardium. (4) The right lung is subdivided into three lobes, and the left lung into two. Lobes of the Lungs.—The left lung is divided into two lobes, by a long oblique deep fissure which penetrates its substance to within a short distance of the root. This fissure begins above at the posterior border, about three inches below the apex, and about the level of the vertebral end of the third rib, and is continued in a somewhat spiral direction downwards and forwards to the anterior end of the base of the lung. The upper lobe of the lung lies above and in front of this cleft. It is conical in form with an oblique base. The apex and the whole of the anterior border belong to it. The lower lobe, somewhat quadran- gular, lies below and behind the fissure, and belonging to it we recognise the entire base and the greater part of the thick posterior border. It is therefore the more bulky of the two. In the right lung a similar cleft is present, but in addition to this a second fissure maps off from the lower