MEMBRANES AND BLOOD VESSELS. 493 the hinder part of the posterior Hmb of the fissure of Sylvius and sends branches upwards to the inferior .parietal convolution and others which incline downwards over the hinder part of the temporal lobe. Its twigs, as a rule, do not encroach upon the outer surface of the occipital lobe. The te7np07'al branches, two or three in number, issue from the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure, and turning downwards and back- wards over its lower lip (i.e., the first temporal convolution), they ramify upon the outer surface of the temporal lobe. Circle of Willis (circulus arteriosus Willisii). This remarkable anastomosis is placed on the base of the brain in the deep hollow in front of the pons Varolii. It takes the form of a heptagonal or hexagonal ring, and the vessels which compose it lie in the large basal subarachnoid space. In front it is closed by the anterior communicating artery which links together the two anterior cerebral arteries. On either side is the posterior communicating artery connecting the internal carotid (from which the anterior cerebral springs) with the posterior cerebral. Behind, the arterial ring is completed by the bifurcation of the basilar artery into the two posterior cerebral vessels (Fig. 278). As a rule the circle of Willis is not symmetrical. The right posterior communicating artery is almost invariably larger than its fellow of the opposite side. Dissection.—The brain being placed with its base uppermost, the dissector should proceed to remove the blood vessels and membranes from its surface. This must be done with the forceps and a pair of scissors. It is a dissection which requires very delicate manipulation, because the cranial nerves at their points of attachment to the brain are so intimately connected with the pia mater that any undue traction applied to the membranes will tear the nerves away altogether. Indeed, in the case of the medulla oblongata, the dissector is advised to leave the pia mater in position until the nerve roots have been studied. The relation of the pia mater to the fourth ventricle likewise renders this desirable. In so far as the other nerves are concerned, the pia mater may be divided carefully around their roots with the scissors. In removing the arachnoidea and pia mater from the outer surface of the cerebrum, it is well to raise it in the first instance from the margins of the hemisphere, and then work towards the fissure of Sylvius. By so doing, the membranes and vessels within this great fissure and in relation to the island of Reil can be withdrawn without damage to the brain