HEAD AND NECK. Eustachian catheter.^ In the natural condition of parts there is a narrow deep recess or sht on the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx behind the prominent posterior lip of the Eustachian orifice. This is termed the recessus infundibuli- forfnis or recessus pharyngis^ and it possesses considerable interest from_ a developmental point of view (Fig. 256). When the naso-pharynx is illuminated by a mirror introduced through the mouth, a view of the four orifices which open into this part of the pharynx may be obtained. Owing to the mirror being placed obliquely and below the level of the hard palate, only the hinder parts of the inferior turbinated bones are visible through the choanoe, and the inferior meatus of the nose is altogether out of sight. The middle and superior meatus of the nose, and the middle and superior turbinated bones, however, can be brought into view and their condition ascer- tained. The lateral wall of the naso-pharynx and the Eustachian orifice can also be fully inspected. Below the soft palate there are three mesial openings into the pharynx—viz., the opening of the fauces, the opening of the larynx, and the opening into the oesophagus. The part of the pharynx which lies behind the cavity of the mouth is sometimes called the oral pharynx (cavum pharyngo-orale), whilst that part which is placed behind the hyoid bone and larynx is termed the laryngopharynx (cavum pharyngo- laryngeum). The isthmus fauciuin has already been studied from the front, and its boundaries have been described. It should now be carefully examined from behind, and the dissector should notice how greatly the size of the aperture varies with differences in the position of the soft palate (p. 401). The lumen of the portion of the pharynx which lies behind the isthmus faucium (oral pharynx), is greatly influenced by the position of the tongue. The laryngeal opening is placed below the isthmus ^ An Eustachian catheter can be very readily improvised by bend- ing the extremity of an ordinary blowpipe. The dissector is recom- mended to practise the passage of this instrument into the Eustachian tube through the nose.