400 HEAD AND NECK. Floor of the Mouth.—The mucous membrane is reflected from the inner aspect of the lower jaw, on to the side of the tongue, but in the fore part of the mouth the tongue Hes free in the buccal cavity. Here the mucous membrane stretches across the floor from one side of the lower jaw to the other (Fig. 238, p. 237). On each side of this region the projec- tion formed by the sublingual gland can be distinguished. Further, if the tongue be pulled upwards, a mesial fold of mucous membrane will be seen to connect its under surface to the floor. This is the franum linguce. The dissector must also look for the openings of Wharton's ducts. Each terminates in a papillary orifice placed close to the side of the fraenum. Farther back, between the side of the tongue and the jaw, are the openings of the ducts of Rivini. Roof of the Mouth.—The hard and the soft palate form the continuous concave and vaulted roof of the mouth (Fig. 253). Projecting from the middle of the posterior free margin of the soft palate, and resting upon the dorsum of the tongue, will be seen the uvula (Fig. 254). The palate both hard and soft is traversed by a median ridge or raphe which terminates in front, opposite the anterior palatine foramen, in a slight elevation or papilla. In the anterior part of the hard palate the mucous membrane on each side of the raphe is thrown into three or four transverse hard corruo-ations or ridges; behind this it is comparatively smooth. Isthmus Faucium.—This is the name which is given to the communication between the buccal cavity and the pharynx (Fig. 254). To obtain a good view of it from the front, the mouth must be well opened and the tongue depressed.^ It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the dorsum of the tongue, and on each side by two curved folds of mucous membrane, termed respectively the anterior and the posterior pillars of the fauces. ^ The isthmus faucium and the parts which bound it can best be examined in the li\-ing subject (Fig. 254).