HEAD AND NECK. 368 heads of the external rectus. It proceeds forwards on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the lenticular ganglion. The long ciliary nerves—usually two in number—spring from the nasal as it crosses the optic nerve. They proceed forwards upon the inner side of the optic nerve to reach the globe of the eye, where they pierce the sclerotic. One of the long ciliary nerves very constantly unites with one of the short ciliary filaments. The infra-trochlear 7ierve runs forwards along the inner wall of the orbit under cover of the superior oblique. Passing under the trochlea of that muscle, it emerges from the orbit and appears upon the face where it has already been dissected (p. 287). Near the pulley it receives a com- municating twig from the supra-trochlear nerve. The nasal proper is the larger of the two terminal branches of the nasal nerve. It leaves the orbit by the anterior internal orbital canal, and is conducted to the interior of the cranium, in which it appears at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The canal in which it runs can readily be opened up by the bone-pliers and the nerve exposed within it. Upon the cribriform plate it turns forwards under the dura mater, and almost immediately disappears through a slit-like aperture at the side of the crista galli, to reach the nasal cavity. Here it gives branches to the mucous membrane, and is continued downwards upon the posterior aspect of the nasal bone. Finally, it emerges upon the face by passing between the lower margin of the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage of the nose. Its terminal filaments have already been described (p. 287). The nasal nerve proper^ therefore, takes a most circuitous route, being found—(i) in the orbit; (2) in the cranium; (3) in the nasal fossa ; and (4) in the face. Lenticular Ganglion.—The lenticular or ophthalmic ganglion is a minute quadrangular body, not much larger than the head of a large pin ; but its size varies considerably