HEAD AND NECK. 470 aryteno-epiglottidean fold near its back part. They are not always present. Action of the Laryngeal Muscles.—The dissector should now consider the manner in which the muscles of the larynx operate upon the true vocal cords in the production of the voice. Tension of the vocal cords is effected by the contraction of the crico-thyroid muscles. In this action the thyroid cartilage is more or less fixed. The oblique parts of the muscles raise the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, which causes the upper border of its posterior lamina with the arytenoid cartilages to pass backwards and downwards. At the same time the posterior horizontal parts of the muscles tend through their insertion into the inferior cornua to draw the thyroid cartilage forwards. When the crico-thyroid muscles cease to contract, the relaxation of the cords is brought about by the elasticity of the ligaments. The thyro-arytenoid muscles must be regarded as antagonistic to the crico-thyroid muscles. When they contract, they draw forward the arytenoid cartilages and posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage, and still further relax the cords, and when they cease to act, the elastic ligaments again bring about a state of equilibrium. The ary-vocales muscles, by the insertion of their fibres into the true vocal cords, may tighten portions of the cords, and, at the same time, relax the parts behind. The width of the rima glottidis is affected by the arytenoideus, which approximates the arytenoid cartilages and by the crico-arytenoidei laterales and postici. The crico-arytenoidei postici, by drawing the muscular processes of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and backwards, swing the processus vocales and the vocal cords outwards, and thus open the rima. The crico-arytenoidei laterales are antagonistic muscles, and by drawing the muscular processes in an opposite direction, close the rima. But the muscles of the larynx have another function to perform besides that of vocalisation. It was formerly thought that the superior aperture of the larynx was closed during deglutition by the folding back of the epiglottis ; that in fact the epiglottis, during the passage of the bolus of food, was applied like a lid over the entrance to the vestibule of the larynx. This view is now known to be erroneous. The in- vestigations of Prof Anderson Stuart have shown that the superior aperture of the larynx is closed during swallowing by the close applica- tion and the forward folding of the two arytenoid cartilages, so that their apices become closely applied to the cushion of the epiglottis. The muscles chiefly concerned in this movement are the external thyro- arytenoid muscles and the transverse arytenoid muscle. These muscles form a true sphincter vestibuli. The thyro-ary-epiglottidean muscle also assists in the closure.