443 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. (p. 127). The dissector should now open up this meatus and follow the facial nerve in its course through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canal which it occupies is termed the aqtiedtict of Fallophis. This begins at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and opens on the exterior of the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Between these points it pursues a complicated course, and this, combined with the density of the bone, renders the dissection very difficult. Perhaps the easiest method of opening up the aqueduct is, in the first instance, to decalcify the bone in a weak solution of acid, but, at the same time, it should be clearly understood that, with a little care, there is nothing to hinder the dissector carrying out the dissection on the hard bone by means of the saw and the chisel. Separate the temporal bone from the other cranial bones which still adhere to it, and, having fixed it in its natural position (in a vice if possible), remove the squamous portion by a horizontal saw-cut at the level of the superior border of the petrous bone, A second horizontal saw-cut should then be made through the pars petrosa immediately above the roof of the internal auditory meatus. If this is successfully carried out, the vestibule, the upper part of the tympanum, and the mastoidal cells are opened. Upon the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum above the stapes and the foramen ovale, a prominent ridge will be noticed running from before backwards. This is the aqueduct of Fallopius. Extend the opening into the tympanum by removing the remainder of its roof, and then, with the chisel, open up the aqueduct as seen in this part of its course. The facial nerve is now exposed in what may be said to be its intermediate or tympanic part. To display its first stage within the bone, open up the internal auditory meatus by removing what remains of its roof, and follow the facial nerve forwards and outwards by means of the chisel. This will lead to the geniculate ganglion—the swelling which marks the point at which the nerve bends backwards to enter the tympanic part of the aqueduct. Be careful at this point to secure the branches which proceed from the gangliform enlargement. The terminal part of the aqueduct of Fallopius is vertical, and its course can be indicated by pushing a fine pin upwards through the stylo-mastoid foramen. To open it, the mastoid process must be removed by a coronal (vertical-transverse) saw-cut on a plane immediately behind the stylo-mastoid foramen. When this has penetrated the bone as far as that foramen, a second saw-cut should be made in the sagittal (antero-posterior and vertical) direction, to meet the extremity of the first. The piece of bone thus marked out may now be detached, and a little work with the chisel will display the facial nerve in this part of the canal. Three branches are given off from it here—viz., the nerve to the stapedius, the chorda tympani, and the communicating branch or