THORAX. 44 heart than the right auricle. In other words, whilst the left auricle is placed almost completely behind, the right auricle comes, to a certain extent, to the front of the heart in connection with the right part of its base (Fig. i66). On the outer and posterior aspect of the right auricle (when it is distended), a faint furrow descends from the upper part of the base of the auricular appendix over the back of the atrium towards the auriculo-ventricular groove. This is the sulcus terminalis of His. It has an embryo- logical significance (Fig. 162, p. 29). The Ventricular Part of the heart is firm to the touch and possesses thick fleshy walls. It is very distinctly conical in form. Its apex corresponds to the apex of the heart; whilst its base is connected above with the two atria of the auricular part of the heart, and gives origin in front of these, and in the interval between the auricular appendices, to the two great arteries which conduct the blood from the ventricular chambers, viz., the pulmonary artery in front and the aorta behind. In addition to the base and apex, the ventricular part of the heart presents two borders and two surfaces. The right border is long and sharp, and is directed obliquely from right to left, from the base to the apex. It is called the margo acutus. The left border or margo obtusiis is short, thick, and rounded. The anterior surface (facies sternalis) of the ventricular part of the heart is full and convex, and is traversed by a groove which begins above at the auriculo-ventricular furrow immediately to the left of the origin of the pulmonary artery, and proceeds downwards towards the right sharp margin, which it reaches a little to the right of the apex. This groove is the anterior interventricular furrow (sulcus longi- tudinalis anterior), and it is placed much nearer to the left margin than to the right margin of the heart. The posterior surface (facies diaphragmatica) is flattened and traversed by a similar groove, the posterior ifiterventricular furrow (sulcus