496 THE BRAIN. the optic tracts in front of the corpora mam miliaria. Spring- ing from the fore part of the tuber cinereum, immediately behind the optic chiasma, is the infundibulum or stalk of the pituitary body. In the removal of the brain its con- nection with that body has been severed. The Locus Perforatus Anticus is a small triangular district of grey matter, which is bounded behind by the uncinate extremity of the hippocampal gyrus; in front by the diverg- ing roots of the olfactory peduncle; and internally by the optic tract. It leads in an outward direction into the Sylvian fissure, and is perforated by the antero-mesial and the antero-lateral groups of basal arteries. The grey matter in this area is continuous above with the grey matter of the lenticular nucleus. Lamina Cinerea.—If the optic chiasma be now gently raised with the forceps, a thin lamina will be noticed passing upwards from it into the great longitudinal fissure, to become connected with the rostrum of the corpus callosum. This is the lamina cinerea. It closes the third ventricle in front, and is continuous on either side with the grey matter of the locus perforatus anticus. Superficial Origins of the Cranial Nerves. — Twelve cranial nerves are enumerated as arising from the brain on either side of the mesial plane. These are the olfactory, or first; the optic, or second; the oculomotor, or third; the trochlear, or fourth; the trigeminal, or fifth; the abducent, or sixth ; the facial, or seventh; the auditory, or eighth; the glosso-pharyngeal, or ninth; the vagus, or tenth; the spinal accessory, or eleventh; and the hypoglossal, or twelfth. Each of these nerves is said to have a " superficial" and a "deep" origin. By the term "superficial origin," we refer to the point where its fibres enter or leave the brain surface ; by the term "deep origin," we indicate the connections which are established by the fibres of the different nerves within the substance of the brain. It is the former only which comes under our notice at the present time.