171 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. space. Three incomplete septa partially subdivide the spinal sub-arachnoid space into compartments. One of these septa is a mesial partition called the septum posticum^ which connects the pia mater covering the posterior aspect of the cord with the arachnoid mater. In the upper part of the cervical region the septum posticum is very imperfect, and is simply represented by a number of strands passing between the two membranes; in the lower part of the cervical region and in the dorsal region it becomes tolerably complete. The other two septa are formed by the ligamenta denti- culata. These spread outwards from each side of the spinal cord, and will be studied with the pia mater. Dissection.—Clear away the arachnoid mater from a portion of the cord, and proceed to the study of the pia mater. Pia Mater Spinalis.—This is a firm vascular membrane, which closely invests and is firmly adherent to the surface of the spinal cord. In front, it sends a fold into the antero-median fissure of the spinal cord, whilst behind a septum continuous with its deep surface dips into the postero-median fissure. Anteriorly, in the mesial plane, it is thickened in the form of a longitudinal glistening band, which receives the name of the linea splendens. Of course this can only be seen after the cord has been removed from the spinal canal. The Ligamentum Denticulatum—Fig. 201 (3)—is a very remarkable fibrous band, which stretches outwards from either side of the pia mater, so as to connect it with the dura mater. Its pial or ijiner attachment extends in a continuous line between the anterior and posterior nerve- roots, from the level of foramen magnum above to the level of the body of the first lumbar vertebra below. Its outer margin is widely serrated or denticulated. From twenty to twenty-two denticulations may be recognised. They occur in the intervals between the spinal nerves, and, pushing the arachnoid before them, they are attached by their pointed extremities to the inner surface of the dura mater.