THE BRAIN. 572 the fibres of the two corresponding strands diminish in number. Indeed, it is doubtful if any of their fibres are prolonged upwards beyond the level of the nuclei. But a third longitudinal elevation is also apparent in the lower part of the posterior area of the medulla. This is placed on the outer side of the funiculus cuneatus—between it and the posterior row of nerve roots—and it has no counterpart in the posterior column of the cord. It is called the funiculus of Rolando., because it is produced by the substantia gelatinosa Rolando approaching the surface along this line. Extremely narrow below, the funiculus of Rolando widens somewhat as it is traced upwards, and finally ends in an expanded extremity called the tubercle of Rolando. The restiforni body forms the upper part of the posterior area. It lies between the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the roots of the vagus and glosso- pharyngeal nerves, and is thrust outwards by the open- ing up of the medulla. It is a large rope-like strand, which inclines upwards and outwards, and then finally takes a turn backwards, and enters the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the inferior peduncle. The restiform body, therefore, is to be regarded as the main connection between the cerebellum above and the medulla and spinal cord below. At the same time, it must be understood that it is not formed of fibres which are prolonged into it from the funiculus gracilis and funiculus cuneatus of its own side. It is true that a surface inspection of the medulla might very naturally lead to this supposition, because there is no sharp line of demarcation marking it off from the tubercles of these strands. The fibres which build up the restiform bodies come from several different sources. It will be sufficient to indicate the more important of these—(i) from the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the same side in the form of posterior superficial arcuate fibres; (2) from the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side in the form of anterior superficial