MEMBRANES AND BLOOD VESSELS. 485 part in this anastomosis are placed in that large expansion of the subarachnoid space which we have termed the cisterna basalis. Two systems of branches, both going to the cerebrum, but differing greatly in their mode of distribution, proceed from the vessels forming the circle of Willis. One system consists of very numerous slender twigs, which, as a rule, come off in groups in certain localities, and at once pierce the substance of the cerebrum so as to gain its interior. These are the central or basal branches. The other system is composed of branches which ramify over the surface of the cerebrum, and are termed the cortical branches. The central parts of the brain, including the basal ganglia, receive their blood supply from the basal system, and the vessels which constitute this group do not anastomose with each other. The cortical vessels supply the cerebral cortex, and the finer branches which ramify in the pia mater anastomose with each other. It so happens, therefore, that neighbouring vascular districts of the cerebral cortex are not sharply cut off from each pther. Vertebral Artery.—The vertebral artery enters the sub- arachnoid space in the upper part of the vertebral canal by piercing the dura mater and the arachnoid mater. Gaining the interior of the cranium through the foramen magnum, it is continued upwards on the side of the medulla oblongata. Soon it inclines forwards towards the- front of the medulla, and, meeting its fellow of the opposite side in the mesial plane, it unites with it at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the basilar artery. During this part of its course the vertebral artery gives off the following branches :— 1. Posterior meningeal. 2. Posterior spinal. 3. Posterior inferior cerebellar. 4. Anterior spinal. 5. Bulbar. The posterior meni^igeal branch (ramus meningeus) springs from the vertebral artery before it pierces the dura mater, and is distributed in the posterior cranial fossa (p. 134).