26o HEAD AND NECK. the pharynx. It will be subsequently traced in the deep dissection of the neck. The Superficial Temporal Artery (arteria temporalis superficialis) cannot be displayed at present. In the dis- section of the face the student will have an opportunity of studying it. The Thyroid Body may now be examined. It is a highly vascular solid body, which clasps the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards for some distance upon each side of the larynx. In size it varies greatly in different individuals, and in females and children it is always relatively larger than in adult males. It consists of three well-marked subdivisions, viz., two lateral lobes joined across the middle line by the isthmus. Each lateral lobe is some- what conical in form, its base extending downwards as far as the fifth or the sixth tracheal ring, whilst its apex rests upon the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its superficial surface is full and rounded, and is clothed by the pre-tracheal layer of cervical fascia, from which it derives a sheath, and also by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. It is further overlapped by the sterno-mastoid muscle (Fig. 220, p. 251). Its deep surface is adapted to the parts upon which it lies, viz., to the side of the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, and the thyroid cartilage ; whilst its posterior border extends backwards so as to touch the oesophagus and pharynx, and overlap the common carotid artery. The isthmus of the thyroid body has already been observed in the dissection of the middle line of the neck. It is a narrow band of varying width which lies in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea, and unites the bases or lower ends of the two lateral lobes. A still further lobe is frequently found in connection with the thyroid body. This is the pyrainidal or the middle lobe. When present it assumes the form of an elongated slender process which springs from the isthmus on one or other side of the mesial plane (more usually on the left side), and