322 HEAD AND NECK. 1. Mylo-hyoid muscle. 2. Submaxillary gland and its duct. 3. Sublingual gland. 4. Side of the tongue, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. Hyo-glossus. 5. Muscles. I Stylo-glossus. "i Genio-hyoid. 1^ Genio-hyo-glossus r Hypoglossal. 6. Nerves. i Lingual. I Glosso-pharyngeal. 7. Submaxillary ganglion. 8. Lingual artery and veins. 9. Stylo-hyoid ligament. Dissection.—To prepare the part for dissection, it is necessary to throw back the head to its full extent, and turn it slightly to the opposite side. If the stuffing in the mouth has not been previously removed in the dissection of the pterygo-maxillary region, it should be taken out now, and then the tip of the tongue should be seized with the forceps, and drawn forcibly forwards between the teeth, and retained in this position by stitching it to the nose. In dissecting towards the mesial plane, three muscular strata are encountered, viz., the mylo-hyoid, the hyo-glossus, the genio-hyo- glossus. In the intervals between these, certain important structures will be exposed. Begin with the first muscular stratum. The mylo-hyoid vmscle forms the fore part of the floor of the digastric triangle. To bring it fully into view, certain of the contents of this space must be displaced. Divide the facial artery at the point where it gains the lower jaw, and, disengaging it from the submaxillary gland, throw it downwards, along with its submental branch and the facial vein. Next, detach the anterior belly of the digastric from the mandible, and deal with it in the same manner. The mylo-hyoid nerve must also be cut, and the superficial part of the submaxillary gland turned backwards. The superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid is in this way completely exposed, and its fibres may be cleaned and its attach- ments made out. The Mylo-hyoid (musculus mylohyoideus) is a thin sheet of muscular fibres, which arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge upon the deep surface of the body of the mandible by an origin which extends from the last molar tooth behind to the symphysis in front. Its fibres are directed downwards,