HEAD AND NECK. 326 Submaxillary Gland.—The submaxillary gland consists of a superficial and a deep portion, the supei'ficial or inain part has already been noted as the most conspicuous object in the digastric triangle. In size and shape it may be com- pared to a walnut, and it presents very definite relations. It is covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, and lies under shelter of the body of the mandible— a distinct depression in the bone corresponding to its upper and outer surface. Behind, it is shut off from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, whilst in front, it is limited by the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. It rests upon the mylo-hyoid, and lodged in a deep groove in its substance is the facial artery. The deep part of the gland is a slender prolongation, which is tucked round the posterior margin of the mylo-hyoid. It lies between the mylo-hyoid and the hyo-glossus muscles. Wharton's Duct.—The duct of the submaxillary gland is termed Wharton's duct. It emerges from the main part of the gland, and with the deep part of the gland it proceeds forwards upon the hyo-glossus muscle between the lingual nerve above and the hypoglossal nerve below. Reaching the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, it incfines slightly upwards and is crossed by the lingual nerve. Finally, it passes under cover of the sublingual gland, and gains the floor of the mouth. Here it opens by a small orifice placed on the summit of a papilla which lies close to the side of the fraenum linguae (Fig. 238). The wall of Wharton's duct is much thinner than that of the parotid duct, and consequently, if a small opening be made in it, the dissector will experience little difficulty in passing a fine probe or bristle along it into the mouth. Sublingual Gland.—The sublingual gland is the smallest of the three salivary glands. It has an elongated shape and in length it measures about one inch and a-half. Its relations are very definite. Above, it is related to the fore part of the floor of the mouth, being separated from the cavity