468 HEAD AND NECK. the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage by a Y'^^aped ligament, termed the ligamentum jugale. Arytenoid Cartilages.—In dealing with the arytenoid cartilages it is well to remove one in order that its external form may be studied; the other should be retained in position for the purpose of afterwards examining the crico- arytenoid joint, and the movements which can be performed at this articulation. The arytenoid cartilages are pyramidal in form, and sur- mount the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage. The apex of each is directed upwards, and at the same time curved backwards and inwards. It supports the cartilage of Santorini. Of the three surfaces, one looks directly inwards towards the corresponding sur- face of the opposite cartilage, from which it is separated by a narrow interval; another looks backwards; whilst the third is directed outwards and forwards. The internal surface is narrow, vertical and even, and is clothed by mucous membrane. The posterior surface is concave; it lodges and gives attachment to the arytenoideus transversus muscle. The antero-external surface is the most extensive of the three, and is uneven for muscular and ligamentous attachments. Upon this aspect of the arytenoid cartilage the thyro-arytenoid muscle is inserted, whilst a small tubercle placed a short distance above the base gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament—the supporting ligament of the false vocal cord. The surfaces of the arytenoid cartilage are separated by three borders, viz., an anterior, a posterior, and an external. The external border is the longest, and at the base of the cartilage it is prolonged outwards and backwards in the form of a stout prominent angle or process, termed the processus muscularis. Into the front of this the crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscle is inserted; into its posterior aspect the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle is inserted. Near the apex of the arytenoid