STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA. 575 The caput cornu is in this way completely cut off from the basal portion. The latter remains in close relation to the central canal, whilst the caput or substantia gelatinosa Rolandi is placed close to the surface, enlarges as it is traced upwards, and forms the prominence on the surface which has already been described as the funiculus and tubercle of Rolando. The fibres which have thus broken up the cervical part of the posterior horn, and which come from the cuneate and gracile nuclei, are termed the intei-nal or deep arcuate fibres. They reach the raphe on the deep or dorsal aspect of the pyramids, and, crossing the mesial plane, they form a very complete decussation with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side, which is termed the decussation of the fillet or the sensory decussation, in contradistinction to the term jnotor decussatioti, which is someti;iies applied to the crossing of the pyramids. As soon as they reach the opposite side of the medulla, these internal or deep arcuate fibres turn upwards and form a longitudinal tract, placed close to the raphe and on the dorsal aspect of the corresponding pyramid, which receives the name of the fillet or lemniscus. The anterior horn of grey matter shares a like fate in the medulla at the hands of the crossed pyramidal tract. This great bundle, in passing from the pyramid into the lateral column of the cord of the opposite side, traverses the anterior horn so as to completely break up its inter- mediate part and separate its head from its basal portion. The further history of the detached head we need not trace, but it is well to observe that the basal part remains in position on the ventral and lateral aspect of the central canal. As we proceed up the closed part of the medulla, the central canal, surrounded by the basal portions of the two horns of grey matter, gradually inclines towards the dorsal aspect, until it finally opens on the surface. The grey matter which surrounds it is now spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in such a manner that the portion which corresponds to the basal part of the anterior horn of the cord is situated close to the mesial plane, whilst the part which represents the base of the posterior horn occupies a more lateral position. This is important, because the nucleus of origin of the hypoglossal nerve is placed in the mesial part of the floor, whilst the nuclei of origin of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves lie in the lateral part of the floor. The most conspicuous of the isolated clumps of grey matter in the medulla are the olivary nucleus and the two accessory olivary nuclei. The olivary nucleus lies subjacent to the olivary eminence, and is a very conspicuous object in transverse sections through this region. In such cases it presents the appearance of a thick wavy or undulating line of grey matter folded upon itself so as to enclose a space filled with