263 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. intervene between the forehead above and the ocular regions below. The short stiff hairs which spring from these have an outward incHnation. Whilst this is the general arrange- ment, however, it will be seen that the lower hairs at the same time incline upwards and the upper hairs incline downwards. The eyelids are two semilunar curtains provided for the protection of each eyeball. The upper lid is the longer and much the more moveable of the two. When the eye is open the margins of the two lids are slightly concave and the interval between them is elliptical in outline. This interval is termed the palpebral fissure. When the eye is closed and the margins of the lids are in apposition with each other, the palpebral fissure is reduced to a nearly horizontal hne. Owing to the greater length and freer mobility of the upper lid, the fissure in this condition is placed below the level of the cornea. At the extremities of the palpebral fissure the eyelids meet and form the palpebral commissures or canthi, and at the inner canthus the fissure expands into a small triangular space called the lacus lachrymalis. If the dissector now examine the free margins of the lids he will observe that to the outer side of the lacus lachrymalis they are flat, and that in each case the eyelashes project from the anterior border, whilst the Meiboi7iian follicles open along the posterior border,—a distinct interval intervening between the cilia and the gland-mouths. The small portion of the margin of each eyelid, on the other hand, which bounds the lacus lachrymalis is more horizontal in direction, somewhat rounded and destitute both of eyelashes and Meibomian foUicles. At the very point where the eyelashes in each eyelid cease, and the palpebral margin becomes rounded, a minute eminence with a central perforation will be seen. The eminence is the papilla lachrymalis^ whilst the perforation, called the pujiclum lachry7?iale, is the mouth of the lachrymal canal; the duct which conveys away the tears. Endeavour