544 THE BRAIN. this prominence, forming the alveus, whilst the remainder constitute the fimbria or taenia hippocampi, which has already been described (pp. 526 and 538). Dissection.—The body of the fornix should now be divided trans- versely across its middle. Its posterior and anterior portions may then be gently raised from the velum interpositum, and thrown forwards and backwards. Had it been possible to raise the corpus callosum and fornix together, the diverging posterior pillars of the latter would have been seen to limit a triangular space on the under surface of the corpus callosum in front of the posterior margin of the splenium. This interval is termed the lyra, and is traversed by a series of oblique and longi- tudinal markings. These markings indicate the presence of fibres, which pass across from one pillar of the fornix to the other, so as to form a white lamina. This lamina is not united to the under surface of the corpus callosum, and the interval between them is sometimes termed Verga^s ventricle. The Velum Interpositum is a double layer or fold of pia mater which intervenes between the body of the fornix, which is placed above it, and the roof of the third ventricle and the two optic thalami, which lie below it. Between the two layers are blood vessels and some subarachnoidal trabecular tissue. In shape the velum interpositum is triangular, and the narrow anterior end or apex reaches as far forwards as the foramina of Monro. The base lies under the splenium of the corpus callosum, and here the two layers of pia mater which form the velum become continuous with the investing pia mater on the surface of the brain. Along each lateral margin the velum interpositum is bordered by the choroid plexus of the body of the lateral ventricle, which projects into the ventricular cavity from under cover of the lateral free edge of the fornix. Posteriorly this choroid plexus is continuous with the similar structure in the descending horn of the ventricle, whilst in front it narrows greatly and becomes continuous, across the mesial plane, with the corresponding plexus of the opposite side, behind the epithelium which lines the foramina of Monro. From this median junction two much smaller choroid plexuses run backwards on the under surface of the velum