DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 163 posterior primary division of the sub-occipital or first cervical nerve. Dissection.—Before cleaning the muscles bounding the triangle, the sub-occipital nerve must be secured. This can best be done by tracing into the space the minute twig which it has been seen to give to the deep surface of the complexus, or, if this has not been observed, by endeavouring to find the twig which it gives to the rectus capitis posticus major. The tissue in which the nerve lies is very dense, and the dissec- tion in consequence is rendered somewhat difficult. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Major springs by a pointed origin from the spine of the axis, and, expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, it is inserted into the occipital bone along the outer portion of the inferior curved line and the surface immediately below. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor is a minute fan- shaped muscle, placed to the inner side and upon a deeper plane than the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between this and the foramen magnum. The Obliquus Capitis Inferior stretches from the bifid spine of the axis, from the extremity of which it takes origin, to the posterior tubercle of the transverse process of the atlas. The great occipital nerve will be seen hooking round its lower border. The Obliquus Capitis Superior springs from the trans- verse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone in the interval between the curved lines. The Posterior Division of the Sub-Occipital Nerve does not divide into an external and internal branch. It enters the sub-occipital triangle by passing backwards between the posterior arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery ; so that even in cases where all its branches have been divided, the trunk is readily found in this position. The nerve at once breaks up into branches which go to supply five