542 THE BRAIN. across behind the genu, and, gently raising it, separate the upper edge of the septum lucidum from its lower surface. Further back, behind the septum lucidum, it will be found to lie upon and to be anatomically connected with the upper surface of the fornix. This connection must also be severed. The left forceps major should be preserved, so that its connection with the occipital lobe may be more fully made out at a later stage. By snipping off the upper edge of the septum lucidum with the scissors, the two laminae, with the interposed cleft or fifth ventricle will be exposed. Fifth Ventricle.—This is the name which is appKed to the mesial cleft between the two laminae of the septum lucidum. It varies greatly in extent in different brains and contains a little fluid. It is completely isolated and presents no communication with the other ventricles or with the surface. Indeed, the term " ventricle " is somewhat inappropriate, because its developmental history shows that it has nothing in common with the general ventricular system of the brain. Each of its bounding laminae consists of three thin strata, viz., an internal grey layer, an inter- mediate white layer, and a layer of ependyma, continuous with the lining ependyma of the lateral ventricle. Fornix.—The fornix is an arched bilateral structure, com- posed of longitudinally directed fibres. In its intermediate part, its two lateral halves are joined together in the mesial plane, and form what is called the body of the fornix, but in front and behind they are quite separate, and constitute the anterior and posterior pillars of the fornix. The body of the fornix is triangular in shape. In front, where it is continuous with the anterior pillars, it is narrow, whilst behind it broadens out, becomes flattened, and is pro- longed into the posterior pillars. The upper surface of the body of the fornix is in contact with the under surface of the corpus callosum, and in the mesial plane is adherent to it and also to the posterior part of the lower edge of the septum lucidum. Its lateral edges are free, and extend outwards in the floor of the lateral ventricles. The lower surface of the body of the fornix rests upon the velum