THORAX. 56 with the under surface of the aortic arch. The hgamentum arteriosum has the same direction as the trunk of the pul- monary artery. During foetal life it is the patent continuation of the pulmonary artery, and conducts the blood into the aorta. At this period, the right and left pulmonary arteries are of small size, and convey a very small part of the blood stream to the lungs. In dissecting the fibrous remains of the ductus arteriosus, note that the left recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve hooks round it at its attachment to the aorta. Dissection.—The pulmonary artery may now be slit open, so as to expose the valve which guards its orifice. This incision must be made carefully, and the knife carried upwards through the wall of the vessel in the interval between two of the three segments which enter into its formation. Pulmonary Valve.—Each semilunar segment will be observed to be attached by its convex margin, whilst its concave border is free. Three minute pouches are thus formed around the mouth of the vessel, and the openings of these pouches are directed upwards. A good idea of the valve may be obtained by filling the pouches with cotton wadding. The segments consist of a double layer of endo- cardium, strengthened by intermediate fibrous tissue, and if the free margin of one be taken between the finger and thumb, a minute nodule of cartilage may be felt about its middle. This is the corpus Arantii. In structure, these little flaps are similar to the corresponding segments of the aortic valve—only weaker. We shall defer their more par- ticular description, therefore, until the aortic valve is under consideration. Opposite each segment, the wall of the artery shows a slight dilatation or bulging, called the sinus of Valsalva. The three segments of the pulmonary valve are so placed that two are in front and one behind the opening (Fig. 174). Pulmonary Veins (venae pulmonales).—The blood is con- veyed back to the heart by the pulmonary veins. These