403 MOUTH AND PHARYNX. the frozen body it will be observed that with the exception of its upper or nasal part, which remains patent under all conditions, the anterior wall is more or less nearly approxi- mated to the posterior wall, and below the opening of the larynx it presents the appearance of a simple transverse slit. Pharyngeal Wall.—The wall of the pharynx may be said to consist of three well-marked strata—viz., an external muscular, an intermediate aponeurotic, and an internal mucous. The muscular layer, which is composed of the three constrictor muscles, with the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus on each side, should first be dissected. For this purpose, place the preparation so that the chin rests upon a block, and the pharynx hangs downwards with its posterior surface towards the dissector. The constrictor muscles should now be carefully cleaned in the direction of the muscular fibres, by removing the bucco- pharyngeal fascia which covers them. Bucco-pharyngeal Fascia. — This coating is sometimes spoken of under the name of the tunica pharyngis externa, more frequently, however, it is called the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, seeing that it is continuous in front with the buccal aponeurosis. This fascial investment must not be con- founded with the prevertebral layer of cervical fascia which forms a distinct lamina behind it. The bucco-pharyngeal and the prevertebral layers of fascia are separated from each other by an interval occupied by lax connective tissue, and which, from the ease with which fluids can travel within it, is called the retro-phary?igeal space (Fig. 238, p. 237). Both layers of fascia are connected laterally with the carotid sheath. Pharyngeal Veins.—Upon the posterior and lateral walls of the pharynx the dissector will not fail to notice numerous veins joined together in a plexiform manner. These con- stitute the pharyngeal venous plexus, which collects blood from the pharynx, soft palate, and prevertebral region, and communicates with the pterygoid plexus. Two or more channels lead the blood from it to the internal jugular vein (P- 338). This venous plexus, together with the pharyngeal