526 THE BRAIN. whilst posteriorly, it is divided into two parts by the anterior extremity of the calcarine fissure. Of these, the upper is the isthmus, which connects it with the callosal gyrus, whilst the lower portion brings it into direct continuity with the gyrus lingualis or infracalcarine convolution. If the dentate fissure which lies along the inner side of the hippo- campal convolution be now opened up, the gyrus dentatus and the fimbria lying side by side will be brought into view. The Fimbria (Fig. 289, //.) is simply a portion of the posterior pillar of the fornix prolonged into this region. It is a conspicuous band of white matter, which presents a prominent free border. In front it runs into the recurved extremity of the uncus, whilst, if it be traced backwards, it will be seen to curve upwards behind the posterior end of the optic thalamus and become continuous with the posterior pillar of the fornix below the hinder part of the corpus callosum. If the handle of a scalpel be passed deeply into the brain above the fimbria, it passes directly into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. The gap through which it is intro- duced is a part of the great transverse fissure of the brain. The Gyrus Dentatus (dentate fascia) is a fine free edge of grey matter, which is placed between the fimbria and the deep part of the upper surface of the hippocampal convolu- tion. It is slightly notched along the margin, whilst its surface is scored by numerous parallel and closely-placed transverse grooves. It begins behind in the region of the splenium (the thickened posterior end of the corpus callosum), and it is carried forwards into the cleft of the uncus. Dentate Fissure.—This is a complete fissure, and the elevation on the ventricular wall, which corresponds to it, is called the hippocampus major( Fig. 289, c.A.). It begins behind the splenium of the corpus callosum, where it is continuous with a shallow part of the callosal fissure, and it proceeds forwards between the gyrus dentatus and the