PERIOSTEUM. 361 Dissection.—The roof of the orbit must be removed. The greater part of this dissection should be done with a sharp chisel. Begin by removing the thick cranial wall above the orbital opening, leaving only a thin portion corresponding to the superior orbital arch. Whilst this is being done care should be taken to preserve the soft parts of the forehead and the upper eyelid. It is of great advantage to retain throughout the whole examination of the orbital cavity the bony ring which constitutes its opening on the face. The thin roof of the orbit may next be removed with the chisel. The lesser wing of the sphenoid, where it forms the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, should be taken away by the bone-pliers, but the dissector should carefully pre- serve intact the ring of bone around the optic foramen. The sphenoidal fissure is now fully opened up, and the various nerves, as they enter the orbit from the cavernous sinus, may be followed out. Lastly, the anterior clinoid process may be taken away with advantage. Periosteum.—If the above dissection has been success- fully carried out, the periosteum clothing the under surface of the orbital roof will be exposed uninjured. The peri- osteum of the orbit forms a funnel-shaped sheath, which encloses all the contents of the cavity, and is but loosely attached to its bony walls. Behind, it will be observed to be directly continuous through the sphenoidal fissure with the dura mater. Expanding with the cavity, it becomes continuous in front around the orbital opening with the periosteum, which clothes the exterior of the skull. Here also it presents important connections with the palpebral ligaments (p. 295). Reflection of the Periosteum and the Subsequent Dissection.— The periosteum should be divided along the middle line of the orbit, and also transversely as far forwards as possible. It can now be thrown inwards and outwards. When this is done the lachrymal gland will be exposed in the fore and outer part of the cavity resting upon the upper and outer aspect of the eyeball. Further, the large frontal nerve, lying upon the upper surface of the levator palpebrse superioris, will be seen stretching forwards in the middle line of the orbit ; as it approaches the the fore part of the cavity, it is joined by the supra-orbital artery. The other superficial structures are usually more or less obscured by the soft pliable fat, which everywhere fills up the interstices between the different orbital contents. On carefully separating this, along the inner wall of the^orbit, the superior oblique muscle will be more fully displayed, and