196 HEAD AND NECK. of the muscle are distinctly seen through it. From the sterno-mastoid the aponeurosis is prolonged over the anterior triangle to the middle line, and passes continuously over to the opposite side of the neck. In its passage, however, from one side to the other, it obtains a firm attachment to the hyoid bone. Its connections at the upper and lower limits of the neck may now be examined. Above, it is attached along the whole length of the base of the lower jaw. Behind the angle of the jaw it is carried upwards upon the surface of the parotid gland, as the parotid fascia, to gain attachment to the lower margin of the zygoma—a connection which will be afterwards seen in the dissection of the face. Still farther backwards, it is fixed to the mastoid process, and to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Its connections below are no less definite. It is attached to the anterior border of the clavicle, and to the top of the sternum. The latter attachment, however, is of a somewhat intricate character. As it is traced downwards between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, it will be found to split a short distance above the sternum into two layers. Of these, the superficial layer is very weak, and is attached to the anterior border of the manubrium sterni. The deeper layer lies immediately in front of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and is fixed below to the posterior border of the manubrium sterni and to the inter-clavicular ligament. Upon either side the two layers unite beyond the sternal head of origin of the sterno-mastoid ; and the space between them contains—(i) a little fatty areolar tissue; (2) the two anterior jugular veins for a very short part of their course; (3) the cross branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins of opposite sides when this exists ; (4) some- times a lymphatic gland; and (5) the sternal heads of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Open into the space by dividing the anterior layer close to the sternum, and gauge its extent by means of the handle of the knife.