466 HEAD AND NECK. Immediately below the posterior part of the upper border and in front of the root of the superior cornu there is a distinct tubercle. From this an oblique ridge descends towards the tubercle on the lower border of the ala. It gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, and divides the outer surface of the ala into an anterior and a posterior part. To the latter, which is much the smaller of the two, is attached the inferior con- strictor muscle of the pharynx. The inner siirface of the ala is smooth and slightly concave. To the angular depression between the two alae are attached the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, and the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The Crico-thyroid Joint, or the articulation on each side between the tip of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and the side of the cricoid cartilage, belongs to the diar- throdial variety. The opposed surfaces are surrounded by a capsular ligament which is lined by a synovial membrane. The movements which take place at these joints are of a two-fold character—viz. (i) gliding; (2) rotatory. In the case of the former the two opposed surfaces glide upon each other in different directions. The rotatory movement is one around a transverse axis which passes through the centre of each joint. The capsular ligament is strengthened by a stout band on the posterior aspect of the joint. The thyroid cartilage should now be removed by dividing the ligaments which surround the crico-thyroid joint. The Cricoid Cartilage is shaped like a signet ring. The broad posterior lamina is somewhat quadrilateral in form. Its superior border presents a faintly marked mesial notch, and on each side of this there is an oval convex facet which articulates with the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The posterior surface of the lamina is divided by an elevated median ridge, into two slightly hollowed out areas which give attachment to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles.