97 THORACIC JOINTS. peculiar, inasmuch as they articulate with single pieces of the sternum, viz., with the manubrium and the lowest piece of the gladiolus respectively, whereas the cartilages of the other true ribs each articulates with two segments of the sternum. The cartilage of the first rib is implanted upon the side of the manubrium without any synovial membrane, or other material, intervening. The second costal cartilage is usually separated from the sternum by two synovial membranes, between which an interarticular ligament is developed. In the case of the other joints it is more common to find a single synovial cavity and no inter- articular ligament. There is, however, considerable variety in these articulations, and a synovial membrane is very frequently wanting altogether in the costo-sternal joint of the seventh costal cartilage. With the exception of the first, and very frequently the seventh, the sterno-costal joints belong to the diarthrodial variety. They are provided with anterior and posterior ligaments, and also in those cases where the joint presents a double synovial cavity with an interarticular ligament. The anterior and posterior ligaments (ligamenta sterno- costalia radiata) are strong, flattened bands of fibres which radiate from the extremities of the rib-cartilages, and blend with the periosteum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the sternum. The interarticular ligaments are feeble bands which pass from the tips of the rib-cartilages to the sternum, and divide the articulations in which they exist into an upper and a lower compartment, each lined by a synovial membrane. The Inter-chondral Articulations are joints formed be- tween the adjacent margins of the costal cartilages of some of the lower ribs (generally from the fifth or sixth to the ninth). They are protected by capsules formed by strong oblique ligamentous fibres, and are lined by synovial membranes. Costo-vertebral Articulations.—With the exception of the first and the last three ribs, the head of each rib arti- VOL. II.—7