6o THORAX. complicated at the apex and on the posterior wall of the cavity. The surface of the septum and the upper part of the anterior wall are, comparatively speaking, smooth. The musculipapillares, with their attached chordae tendinese, are collected into two strongly marked groups. They are much larger than the papillary muscles of the right ventricle, but do not project so distinctly into the cavity. The left ventricle has two openings—(i) the auriculo- ventricular opening, through which the blood enters from the auricle; (2) the aortic orifice, through which the blood flows into the aorta. These apertures are situated close together at the base of the ventricle, the auriculo-ventricular ope7img lying behind and to the left, whilst the aortic orifice is placed in front and to the right. Both openings are guarded by valves—the auriculo-ventricular opening by the mitral or bicuspid valve, and the aortic opening by the aortic valve. The Mitral Valve (valvula bicuspidalis s. mitralis) prevents regurgitation of the blood into the left auricle during the contraction or systole of the ventricle. It consists of two large pointed cusps with two smaller portions intervening. These are similar in structure to the cusps of the tricuspid valve, but the segments are larger and much stronger and thicker. The fibrous tissue between the two layers of endo- cardium is more abundant, but it is arranged in precisely the same manner. The chordae tendineae from each mus- culus papillaris proceed to one of the two intervals between the cusps, and are attached to the adjacent margins and to the ventricular surfaces of the two cusps. The anterior cusp is the larger of the two, and lies in front and to the right of the opening, being so placed as to intervene between the auriculo-ventricular and the aortic apertures. The posterior cusp lies behind and to the left of the opening. Aortic Opening.—The part of the ventricular cavity im- mediately below the orifice of the aorta has been termed the aortic vestibule (Sibson). Its walls are not muscular but fibrous, and therefore it does not collapse during the diastole