THE BRAIN. 486 The posterior spinal (arteria spinalis posterior) is the first branch that is given off after the vertebral artery pierces the dura mater. It passes downwards on the spinal cord in relation to the posterior nerve-roots (p. 179). The posterior inferior cerebellar (arteria cerebelli inferior posterior) is the largest branch of the vertebral artery, and it takes origin immediately above the posterior spinal artery. It pursues a tortuous course backwards on the side of the upper part of the medulla, between the nerve-roots of the hypo- glossal, and then between the roots of the vagus. Finally, turning round the restiform body, it gains the vallecula of the cerebellum, where it ends by dividing into two terminal branches. Of these, one turns backwards in the sulcus, between the inferior vermiform process and the lateral hemi- sphere of the cerebellum, whilst the other ramifies on the posterior part of the inferior surface of the cerebellum. The anterior spinal artery (arteria spinalis anterior) arises near the lower border of the pons Varolii. It is rare to find the vessels of the two sides of equal size. They converge on the anterior surface of the medulla, and unite to form the commencement of the median vessel which extends down- wards on the ventral face of the cord. The bulbar arteries are minute vessels which enter the substance of the medulla, and spring both from the vertebral artery itself and also from its branches. The Basilar Artery (arteria basilaris), which is formed by the union of the two vertebral arteries, is a short trunk which extends in the mesial plane from the lower to the upper border of the pons Varolii. At the latter point it ends by dividing into the two posterior cerebral arteries. The basilar artery lies in the middle part of the cisterna pontis, and occupies the median groove on the ventral or anterior surface of the pons VaroUi. In front, it is supported by the basilar process of the occipital bone and the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid. The branches which spring from the basilar artery, for the