346 HEAD AND NECK. The Cardiac Branches which the pneumogastric gives off in the neck are long slender filaments, which vary in number from two to three or even more. They run downwards along the common carotid artery, and, with the exception of the lowest branch on the left side, they enter the deep cardiac plexus. The lowest cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric enters the thorax, and terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus. Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve consists of two parts—an accessory and a spinal. In the foramen jugulare the accessory portion is connected by one or two fine twigs with the root-ganglion of the vagus, and below the basis cranii it leaves the spinal part and joins the vagus. The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve contributes to the vagus the greater proportion of its motor fibres. They pass over the surface of the trunk-ganglion, and are continued into the pharyngeal, and perhaps also into the superior laryngeal nerves. Some of the fibres are likewise carried down the stem of the vagus into the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The spinal part of the spinal accessory is directed back- wards under the transverse process of the atlas. It crosses the internal jugular vein, and disappears into the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its further course has been already studied (pp. 141 and 219). It is distributed to two muscles—viz., the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. Pharyngeal Plexus.—This is a meshwork of fine nerve filaments, which is formed upon the lateral wall of the pharynx at the level of the middle constrictor muscle. The pharyngeal branches of the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic enter into its construction, and one or more minute ganglia are developed in connection with it. Its terminal twigs are given to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx, and one branch (the ramus lingualis vagi) connects the plexus with the hypoglossal nerve. The Hypoglossal Nerve makes its exit from the cranium, through the anterior condyloid foramen. It pierces the dura