THORACIC CAVITY. 49 When the dissector has fully studied the interior of the right auricle, he may slit open with the scissors the superior vena cava and the two innominate veins. By this proceeding he may satisfy himself that no valves are present in these vessels. Right Auricle.—The internal surface of the cavity presents a smooth glossy appearance, due to its endocardial lining. In the auricular appendix the wall is raised into a series of closely applied parallel ridges, called the musculi pectinati, from their resemblance to the teeth of a comb. These ridges are also present on the right wall of the auricle, and when followed backwards they are seen to end on a smooth vertical ridge, called the crista terniinalis (His). (Fig. 162, p. 29.) It represents in the interior of the auricle the groove on the exterior already described under the name of the sulcus terminalis. In the intervals between the musculi pectinati the wall of the auricle is very thin. The blood enters the atrium of the auricle by the fol- lowing openings:—(i) the opening of the superior vena cava: (2) the opening of the inferior vena cava; (3) the opening of the coronary sinus ; (4) the orifices of three or four anterior cardiac veins from the surface of the right ventricle; (5) the foramina Thebesii. The blood flows out of the cavity, into the right ventricle, through the large auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of the superior vena cava is situated at the upper part of the auricle. The inferior vena cava opens into the lower part of the cavity. The dissector should note that these two veins are so directed that the currents of blood, which flow from them into the auricle, shall not be opposed the one against the other. The blood of the superior vena cava is directed towards the auriculo-ventric- ular opening, whilst the stream of blood flowing from the mouth of the inferior vena cava is directed so as to impinge against the septum between the auricles. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large, oval opening situated in the lower part or floor of the auricle. Through VOL. II.—4