HEAD AND NECK. 392 Stretches outwards so as to abut against the capsular hga- ment. In the middle line there is an exceedingly strong cord-like band, which stands out in strong relief from the rest of the ligament, and is carried downwards to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. Part of its fibres are attached to this, but a certain proportion become continuous with the central thickening of the anterior atlanto-axial ligament, and through this, with the anterior common ligament of the spine. The Posterior Atlanto-Occipital Ligament is a thin and weak membrane which occupies the wide gap between the posterior arch of the atlas and the posterior border of the foramen magnum, to both of which it is attached. It is very firmly connected with the dura mater, and is so feebly developed that it is a matter of some difficulty to show it as a distinct layer after the latter has been removed. On each side it reaches the capsular ligament. Over each of the grooves on the posterior arch of the atlas for the ver- tebral arteries it is deficient; here its lower border forms an arch, under which the vessel and the first cervical nerve pass. It is not uncommon to find this fibrous arch ossified. The Atlanto-Occipital Capsular Ligaments (Fig. 251, i) connect the occipital condyles with the lateral masses of the atlas. They completely surround the joints, and are con- nected in front with the anterior atlanto-occipital ligament, and behind with the posterior atlanto-occipital ligament. The occipital bone, therefore, round the foramen magnum is attached by special ligaments to each of the four portions of the atlas—-viz., to the anterior arch, to the two lateral masses, and to the posterior arch. Dissection.—The remaining ligaments are placed within the spinal canal in connection with its anterior wall. For their proper display it is therefore necessary to remove with the bone-pliers the laminae of the axis, and the posterior arch of the atlas. The tabular part of the occi- pital bone must, likewise, be taken away by sawing it through, on each side, immediately behind the jugular eminence and the condyle, and carrying the saw into the foramen magnum. The upper part of the