THE LARYNX. 455 lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane presents very different connections. It is not attached to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, but stretches upwards into the interior of the larynx, and takes part in the formation of the true vocal cord. At a later stage of the dissection it will be fully exposed. Dissectioji.—The position of the larynx must now be reversed. Fix it upon the block in such a manner that its posterior aspect is directed upwards. The oesophagus should then be slit open by a mesial incision through its posterior wall. Next remove with great care the mucous membrane which covers the posterior aspect of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages. In doing this, bear in mind that the inferior laryngeal artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, pass upwards between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and must be preserved. Upon the posterior aspect of the broad lamina of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will now note the two posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, and the attachment of the anterior band of longitudinal muscular fibres, which belongs to the oesophageal wall. Thi& takes origin from the pro- minent mesial ridge on the back aspect of the cricoid cartilage. On the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and bridging across the interval between them, the dissector will observe the arytenoid muscle. Especial care must be taken in cleaning this muscle in order that the connections of the superficial decussating fibres may be fully ascertained. The outer layer of the right aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane should now be cautiously removed. This will expose the aryteno-epiglottidean muscle, the cuneiform cartilage, and the cartilage of Santorini of that side. This is perhaps the most difficult part of the dissection, because the dissector has to establish the continuity of the sparse fibres which compose the pale aryteno-epiglottidean muscle with the decussating fibres of the arytenoid muscle, and he has also to make out a delicate ligament which extends downwards from the tip of the cartilage of Santorini to the cricoid cartilage—viz., the ligamentum jugale. The Posterior Crico-arytenoid Muscle is somewhat fan- shaped (Fig. 267). It springs by a broad origin from the depression which marks the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage on each side of the mesial ridge, and its fibres converge to be inserted into the posterior surface and outer angle of the processus muscularis of the arytenoid cartilage.^ ^ The projecting outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage.