i68 HEAD AND XECK, finally ends by blending with the filum terminale, a fibrous thread which is prolonged downwards through the sacral canal from the extremity of the spinal cord. Above, the dura mater is firmly attached to the third cervical vertebra, to the axis vertebra, and around the margin of the occipital foramen ; below, the filum terminale, on which it terminates, can be traced as far as the dorsal aspect of the coccyx, where it is lost by blending with the periosteum investing that bone. If the student recall the characteristics of the cranial dura mater, he cannot fail to observe certain striking points of difference between it and the spinal dura mater. The rela- tions which the latter presents to the walls of the spinal canal are altogether different. Within the cranial cavity the dura mater is closely adherent to the bones, and forms for them an internal periosteum. As it is traced into the spinal canal it will be found to split at the foramen magnum into its two constituent layers. The inner of these two laminae is carried downwards as the long cyhndrical tube which encloses the spinal cord. The outer lamina, which is very much thinner, becomes continuous, behind and on each side of the foramen magnum, with the periosteum on the exterior of the cranium, whilst in front, it is prolonged downwards into the vertebral canal in connection with the Hgaments and perio- steum on the anterior wall of the canal. The spinal dura mater corresponds, therefore, to the supporting layer of the cranial dura mater and to it alone. It is separated from the walls of the spinal canal and its hning periosteum by an interval or space, which is filled by loose fat, areolar tissue, and the intra-spinal plexuses of veins. In connection with the spinal dura mater there are no venous sinuses such as are present in the cranial cavity, but it should be noted that the intra-spinal veins, placed between the periosteum of the spinal canal and the tube of dura mater, occupy the same morphological plane as the cranial sinuses. xA.nother feature which serves to distinguish the spinal dura mater from the