130 HEAD AND NECK. The Lateral Sinuses (sinus transversi).—Fig. 194 {Str).— are two in number—one on each side. They are variable in their mode of origin, but, as we have noted, the right lateral sinus is commonly formed by the superior longitudinal sinus, whilst the left is formed by the straight sinus. They commence one upon either side of the internal occipital protuberance, and communicate with each other by a trans- verse channel of variable width, which passes in front of this bony prominence. The sinus which represents the continua- tion of the superior longitudinal sinus is generally much larger than the other. From the occipital protuberance, each lateral sinus passes at first outwards and upwards, and grooves the occipital bone and the inferior angle of the parietal bone along the attached border of the tentorium. Reaching the temporal bone, it is joined by the superior petrosal sinus, and then suddenly curves downwards and inwards, in the deep furrow upon the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the jugular process of the occipital bone. Lastly, it turns forwards and disappears into the posterior compart- ment of the jugular foramen, where it terminates in the bulb of the internal jugular vein. In this course the lateral sinus describes an arch (Birmingham) with the convexity upwards, the highest point of which, as a rule, corresponds with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Venous tributaries which come from the cerebellum, back part of the cerebrum, and from the diploe of the cranial bones, may be noticed opening into the lateral sinus. Two large and important emissary veins connect it with the veins of the scalp, and allow its blood, when it is over- charged, to drain partly away in this direction. These are the mastoidal vein (emissarium mastoideum), joining it through the mastoid foramen, and the posterior condyloid vein (emissarium condyloideum), which joins it through the posterior condyloid foramen. Cavernous Sinus (sinus cavernosus).—Fig. 194 {Sc).—It is not advisable that the dissector should open the cavernous