5 THORACIC WALL. Dissection.—To bring the internal intercostal imiscles into view it is necessary to reflect the external intercostal muscles, and also the anterior intercostal membranes. Divide them along the upper borders of the ribs which bound the spaces inferiorly, and throw them upwards. This dissection should be performed in each intercostal space, and, in effect- ing it, care must be taken of the intercostal arteries which lie between the two muscular strata. The internal intercostal muscles (intercostales interni) thus laid bare will be seen to be similar in their constitution to the external muscles. The fibres, however, run in the opposite direction—viz., from above, obliquely downwards and back- wards. Superiorly, they are attached to the inner surface of the upper rib, immediately above the subcostal groove; inferiorly, they are attached upon the inner surface of the lower rib, close to the upper margin. The internal inter- costal muscles are prolonged forwards to the sternum. Posteriorly they reach backwards to the angles of the ribs, from which to the spine the muscles are replaced by a series of thin membranes—the posterior intercostal membranes— which will be seen after the thorax has been opened. If the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen has not been removed, the dissector should note that the anterior fibres of the two lowest internal intercostal muscles become con- tinuous with the fibres of that muscle. Intercostal Nerves.—The intercostal nerves are alto- gether out of sight in the present stage of the dissection. They are hidden by the lower borders of the ribs which bound the intercostal spaces superiorly. By gently pulling upon their lateral cutaneous branches they can be drawn downwards, and they are then seen to lie between the two muscular strata as far forward as a point midway between the spine and sternum. Here they disappear from view by sinking into the substance of the internal intercostal muscles, amidst the fibres of which they may be traced as far as the anterior extremities of the bony ribs. They now reach the deep surface of these muscles and are carried inwards, first upon the pleura, and then upon the triangu-