HEAD AND NECK. 452 upwards, so as to undermine somewhat the false vocal cord, and that its mouth or orifice is narrower than its cavity. Under cover of the fore part of the false vocal cord, an elongated aperture will be detected. This leads into the laryngeal pouch or sac—a small mucous diverticulum, which ascends between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This sac is of variable extent, but as a rule it ends blindly at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Distend the sinus, and if possible the sac, with cotton wad- ding. This will greatly facilitate the subsequent dissection. The Lower Subdivision of the Laryngeal Cavity (Fig. 263, C) leads directly downwards into the trachea. Above it is narrow and laterally compressed, but it gradually widens out until in its lowest part it is circular. It is bounded by the lower part of the thyroid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane, and the cricoid cartilage. It is through the anterior wall of this compartment, that the opening is made in the operation of laryngotomy. The Mucous Membrane of the larynx is continuous above with that lining the pharynx, and below with the mucous lining of the trachea. Over the epiglottis and true vocal cord it is very tightly bound down, and it is plentifully supplied w4th glands. These, however, are entirely absent over the true vocal cord and also in its immediate vicinity. Dissectiojt.—Place the larynx upon a block so that its anterior surface looks upwards, and fix it in this position with pins. The branches which the external laryngeal nerve gives to the crico-thyroid muscle should in the first place be followed out, and carefully preserving the superior and inferior laryngeal vessels and the internal and recurrent laryngeal nerves, the dissector should in the next place proceed to remove the thyroid body, and the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles. The fibres of origin of the inferior constrictor muscle should likewise be cleared away from the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The broad thyro-hyoid membrane, the central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, and the crico-thyroid muscles are now exposed, and their attachments may be defined.