DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 141 The Posterior Triangle, of which the upper part is thus displayed, is bounded in front by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and behind by the anterior border of the trapezius. The apex, which is directed upwards, is formed at the superior curved Hne of the occipital bone by the apposition of the occipital attachments of these two muscles. The Jloor of that portion of the space which is exposed will be observed to be formed by the splenius capitis and the levator anguli scapulae. But it often happens that the occipital attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius (more especially of the latter) are so poorly de- veloped that they fail to meet on the superior curved line of the occipital bone. In this case a small portion of the complexus (readily recognised by the vertical direction of its fibres) will be noticed entering into the formation of the floor of the space above the level of the splenius. The contents of the space, in so far as they can be seen in the present position of the body, are—(i) the great auricular and small occipital nerves as they appear at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle; (2) the spinal accessory nerve, the cervical nerves to the trapezius, and two small nerves from the cervical plexus to the levator anguli scapulae. An additional structure also enters the space when the sterno-mastoid and trapezius do not meet to form a distinct apex for the triangle, viz., the occipital artery. In such a case a small portion of the vessel will be noticed upon the complexus muscle, close to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The Spinal Accessory Nerve appears in the posterior triangle by emerging from the substance of the sterno- mastoid muscle. It crosses the triangle obliquely, running from above downwards and backwards, and finally disappears under the anterior border of the trapezius. The Cervical Branches to the Trapezius, two or three in number, spring from the third and fourth cervical nerves. They enter the posterior triangle by leaving the shelter of