484 THE BRAIN. the larger fissures of the cerebellum which contain folds of pia mater. The larger blood vessels of the brain, as we have noted, run in the subarachnoid space. The finer twigs enter the pia mater and ramify in it before proceeding into the substance of the brain. As they enter they carry with them sheaths derived from the pia mater. Consequently, if the dissector raises a portion of this membrane from the surface of the cerebrum, a number of fine processes will be seen to be withdrawn from the cerebral substance. These are the blood vessels, and they give the deep surface of the mem- brane a rough and flocculent appearance. ■The pia mater is not confined to the exterior of the brain. A fold is carried into its interior. This will be exposed in the dissection of the brain, and described under the name of the velum interpositum or the tela choroidea superior. Dissection.—The blood vessels of the brain should now be followed oi;t as far as it is possible to do so without laceration of the brain substance. Begin by stripping the arachnoidea from the base of the brain. This will bring into view the main trunks. In describing the vessels of the brain it is unfortunately necessary to speak of many parts which have not yet come under the notice of the dissector. Arteries which supply Blood to the Brain.—Four main arterial trunks carry blood into the cranium for the supply of the brain—viz., the two internal carotid arteries and the two vertebral arteries. The vertebral arteries enter through the foramen magnum, whilst the internal carotid arteries gain admittance through the carotid canals. These vessels have been divided in the removal of the brain. The cut end of the internal carotid will be seen on the base of the brain immediately to the outer side of the optic nerve; the vertebral lies on the side of the medulla oblongata. A very remarkable and complete anastomosis takes place on the base of the brain by the inosculation of branches which spring from the carotid and vertebral arterial systems. This is termed the circle of Willis. The branches which take