509 THE CEREBRUM. spicuous and deep cleft, which, by its lower end, runs into the calcarine fissure. Collateral Fissure (Fig. 284).—The collateral fissure is a strongly marked fissure on the under surface of the tentorial part of the inferior surface of the cerebral hemisphere. It begins near the occipital pole, and extends forwards towards the temporal pole. In its posterior part it is placed below and parallel to the calcarine fissure, whilst in front it is separated from the hippocampal or dentate fissure by the hippocampal convolution, i.e.., the innermost convolution on the tentorial surface of the hemisphere (Fig. 284, HIP.). In front of the anterior end of the collateral fissure a shallow sulcus will be seen turning round the anterior end of the temporal lobe so as to intervene between the temporal pole and the uncinate or hook-like extremity of the hippo- campal gyrus. This is the mcisura temporalis., and it may be regarded as a forward prolongation of the collateral fissure; at the same time, it must be admitted that the two are seldom continuous with each other. The Calloso-marginal Fissure (Fig. 284, cal.-marg.) is a strongly marked sulcus on the fore part of the mesial surface of the hemisphere. It divides the front portion of the mesial surface into an upper marginal and a lower callosal convolution, and forms on this aspect the lower limit of the frontal lobe. Beginning below the fore end of the corpus callosum, close to the locus perforatus anticus, the calloso- marginal fissure curves round the genu of the corpus callosum, and then extends backwards to a point a short distance behind the middle of the supero-mesial surface. It then turns upwards and cuts the supero-mesial margin of the hemisphere immediately behind the upper end of the fissure of Rolando (Fig. 283, cm). The relation presented by the two extremities of these fissures is such that they can both be readily recognised, either when examined on the outer or the mesial aspect of the cerebrum.