CRANIO- VERTEBRAL JOINTS. 389 processes to the mesial plane, where it is in contact by a free thickened inner border with its neighbour of the opposite side. The mesial slit between them in each interneural space is filled by some lax connective tissue, and it allows the egress from the spinal canal of some small veins. The width of the ligaments in the different regions of the spine depends upon the size of the spinal canal. Thus they are widest in the neck and in the lumbar part of the column. The ligamenta subflava, by virtue of their great strength and elasticity, are powerful agents in maintaining the curva- tures of the spine; they are also a valuable aid to the muscles in restoring the spine to its original position after it has been bent in a forward direction. The interspinoiis ligaments are most strongly developed in the lumbar regions, where they fill up the intervals between the adjacent margins of contiguous spinous processes. In the dorsal region, and more especially in the neck, they are very weak. The supraspinous ligaments are thickened bands which connect the summits of the spinous processes. In the neck they are replaced by the ligamentum nuchse (p. 153). The intertransverse ligaments are feebly marked in the cervical region, and extend chiefly between the anterior bars of the transverse processes. Articulations of the Axis, Atlas, and Occipital Bone.— The articulations which exist between these three bones all belong to the diarthrodial class. Between the atlas and axis there are three such joints—viz., a pair between the opposed articular processes, and a third between the anterior face of the odontoid process and the posterior face of the anterior arch of the atlas. Between the atlas and occipital bone there are a pair of joints—viz., between the occipital condyles above and the elliptical cavities upon the upper aspect of the lateral masses of the atlas. The ligaments connecting these three bones together may be divided into three main groups as follows:—