5i8 THE BRAIN, talis and the ramus occipitalis, and behind the inferior postcentral furrow. It is more or less directly continuous with the occipital lobe behind and the temporal lobe below. From before backwards it presents three arching convolutions, viz., the supra-marginal, the angular, and the post-parietal. The supra-marginal convolution (Fig. 283) is folded round the upturned end of the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and stands in continuity with the first temporal convolution. The angular gyrus (Fig. 283) arches over the upturned end of the parallel or first temporal sulcus, and is continuous with the second temporal convolution. The post-parietal convolution (Fig. 283) winds round the upturned end of the second temporal sulcus, and runs into the third temporal gyrus. Boundaries of the Occipital Lobe.—The occipital lobe forms the hinder pyramidal part of the cerebral hemisphere, and it may be defined as being that portion of the hemi- sphere which encloses the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. On the surface it is very imperfectly mapped off from the parietal and temporal lobes which lie in front of it. Being pyramidal in form, it presents three surfaces and an apex or occipital pole. On the mesial aspect of the hemisphere it is separated from the parietal lobe {i.e., the prsecuneus) by the internal parieto-occipital fissure. On the tentorial or inferior surface it is not marked off in any way from the temporal lobe and the hippocampal part of the limbic lobe which lie in front of it. It is necessary, therefore, on this aspect to employ an arbitrary line of demarcation; one which extends from the praeoccipital notch on the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere to the isthmus of the hmbic lobe {i.e., the narrow part of the limbic lobe immediately below the hinder end of the corpus callosum) will serve the purpose. On the external surface the external parieto-occipital fissure and an arbitrary line from this to the praeoccipital notch may be regarded as separating the occipital from the parietal