REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 115 middle meningeal artery upon each side, ascending in the substance of the membrane, and sending off its branches in a widely-arborescent manner. It stands out in bold relief from the membrane in which it ramifies ; and if the skull-cap be examined, its inner surface will be observed to be deeply grooved by its ramifications. The meningeal arteries, as the name might lead one to imagine, are not intended for the supply of the membrane alone. They also must be looked upon as the nutrient vessels of the inner table and diploe of the cranial bones. The Pacchionian bodies or arachfioidal villi, which are almost invariably present, and which are as a rule best marked in old subjects, will attract notice at this stage. They are small granular bodies, ranged in clusters on either side of the superior longitudinal sinus, into which they not unfrequently protrude (Fig. 189). As a general rule, they are most evident towards the hinder part of the parietal region. At first sight these bodies appear to be protrusions from the dura mater, but this is not the case. They spring from the arachnoid mater, and are enlargements of the normal villi of this membrane. The relation which the Pacchionian bodies present to the dura mater is somewhat intricate. When they project into the superior longitudinal sinus they push before them a thin covering continuous with the floor of the sinus, so that in no sense can they be said to pierce its wall. On either side of the superior longitudinal sinus there are a number of irregular spaces or intervals which communicate with the sinus either by a small aperture or a narrow channel. These recesses are termed para- sinoidal sinuses or laaincB laterales, and the independent meningeal veins, and some of the diploic veins, pour their blood into them. Pacchionian bodies push themselves into the parasinoidal sinuses from below in such a manner that they receive a complete covering by the invagination of the floor. Nor does the bone escape. As the Pacchionian bodies enlarge, they cause absorption of the cranial wall, and small pits are hollowed out on its deep surface for their reception. The superficial walls of the lacunae—very much thinned—line these depressions in the calvaria. Two Layers of the Dura Mater.—Having learned these preliminary details from an examination of the outer