THE BRAIX. 552 the recesstispimalis, passes backwards, above the posterior commissure and the entrance of the aqueduct of Syhius, for a short distance into the stalk of the pineal body. The second is placed above this and is carried backwards for a greater distance. Its walls are epithelial, and therefore it cannot be seen in an ordinar}- dissection. It is termed the recesstis stiprapinealis. Dissection.—The further study of the cerebrum should be postponed until after the examination of the mid-brain or mesencephalon. The membranes should be removed from the upper surface of the cerebellum, and the prominent anterior part of this organ may then be gently pulled backwards to expose as far as possible the corpora quadrigemina, i.e., the four rounded eminences on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon. In doing this, care should be taken to secure and preser\-e the slender trochlear ner^'e which winds forwards round the outer side of the cms cerebri, and which issues from a lamina called the valve of Vieussens, immediately below the inferior pair of quadrigeminal bodies. THE MESEN'CEPHALOX. Mesencephalon.—The mesencephalon or isthmus encephali is the stalk which occupies the opening of the tentorium cerebelli, and connects the cerebrum with the parts in the posterior cranial fossa. It is about three-quarters of an inch long, and it consists of a dorsal part composed of the corpora quadrigemina, and a much larger ventral part which is formed by the two large crura cerebri. In the undissected brain the corpora quadrigemina are completely hidden from \-iew by the splenium of the corpus callosum, which projects backwards over them, and also by the superimposed cerebral hemispheres. The crura cerebri, however, can to some extent be seen on the base of the brain, where they bound the posterior part of the interpeduncular space. The mesen- cephalon is tunnelled from below upwards by a narrow passage called the aqueduct of Sylvius. This channel lies much nearer its dorsal than its ventral surface. Corpora Quadrigemina (optic lobes).—The four rounded eminences on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon to