DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 169 cranial dura mater consists in the fact that it gives off from its deep surface no partitions or septa. The cyHndrical tube of spinal dura mater does not lie free within the vertebral canal, although its attachments are of such a nature that they do not in any way interfere with the free movement of the vertebral column. On either side the spinal nerve roots, as they pierce the dura mater, carry with them into the intervertebral foramina tubular sheaths of the membrane, whilst in front loose fibrous prolongations— more numerous above and below than in the dorsal region —connect the tube of dura mater to the posterior common ligament of the vertebral column. No connection of any kind exists between the dura mater and the neural arches of the vertebrae or ligamenta subflava. Dissection. —The tube of dura mater may now be opened with the scissors. The incision should be carried through the membrane in the mesial plane. Care, however, must be taken not to injure the delicate arachnoid, which is subjacent. Subdural Space. — The capillary interval between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater is termed the subdural space—Fig. 200 {sd). The deep surface of the dura, which is turned towards this space, is smooth, moist, and polished. Upon either side the dissector will notice the series of aper- tures of exit for the roots of the spinal nerves. These are ranged in pairs opposite each intervertebral foramen, and the subdural space is prolonged outwards for a short distance upon each of the nerve-roots. Viewed from the inside of the tube of dura mater, each of the two nerve-roots belonging to a spinal nerve is seen to carry with it a special and distinct sheath. When examined, however, on the outside of the tube of dura mater, the appearance is such that the dissector might be led to conclude that both roots are enveloped in one sheath. This is due to the fact that the two sheaths are closely held together on the outside by intervening connective tissue, which can be removed with a little careful dissection. When this is done, the two tubular sheaths will be observed to remain distinct as far as the ganglion on the jDOSterior root of the nerve. At this point they blend with each other.