50 THORAX. this aperture three fingers can be readily passed into the ventricle. If the student now looks between this opening and the orifice of the inferior vena cava, he will discover the mouth of the coronary simes, imperfectly guarded by a fold of endocardium, which receives the name of the coro?iary valve or valve of Thebesius. An attentive examina- tion of the inner surface of the auricular wall will further reveal several minute, round, irregularly scattered openings called the fora??nna Thebesii. Some of these are simply small caecal pits in the substance of the heart, whilst others are the mouths of minute veins—the vence Thebesii. Examine, in the next place, the posterior wall of the right auricle. It is formed by the partition which separates the two auricles from each other {septum atriorinii). Upon this an oval depression, surrounded by a prominent ridge, will be noticed a short distance above the mouth of the inferior vena cava. The depression is called the fossa ovalis. Its floor is exceedingly thin, and it marks the position of the forajuen ovale of the fcetal heart. The ridge which encircles it is deficient below. It is, therefore, crescentic in form, and is called the anuulus ovalis (limbus fossae ovalis). In a few cases, a communication between the two auricles may be found by slipping a probe under the upper and best- marked part of the annulus. Stretching between the anterior horn of the annulus ovalis and the anterior margin of the mouth of the inferior vena cava is a cresentic fold of endocardium, sometimes cribriform and often very feebly marked, called the Eustachian valve. Dissection.—The right ventricle may now be opened by the following incisions, (i) A vertical incision through the anterior wall of the ventricle about a quarter of an inch to the right of the anterior inter- ventricular furrow. Enter the knife above at the conus arteriosus, and carry it downwards, parallel to the furrow, as far as the right margin of the heart. (2) A transverse incision, through the anterior wall of the ventricle, from the upper end of the first incision to the right margin of the heart. This cut should be made parallel to the auriculo-ventricular groove, and about half an inch below it. Both incisions must be made