2IO HEAD AND NECK. the level of the clavicle. These are for the most part destined for the supply of muscles in the neighbourhood. They are :— 1. Nerve to rhomboids, from the 5th cervical nerve. 2. Nerve to subclavius ^„ . , , , . , , Virom the 5th and 6th cervical nerves. 3. Supra-scapular, J 4. External respiratory^^ . ^^ r.^ • , r-D 11 Hrom the 5th, 6th, and 7th cervical nerves, nerve of Bell, j j ' 5 / c Twigs to scalene^ , . . , ^ r ^ ^ , , , I irom various cervical nerves before they enter the plexus. muscles and longus colli, Communicating; twiel ^ , . , ■ J-irom 5th cervical. to phrenic nerve. The nerve to the rhomboids is a long slender branch which springs, by a stem common to it and the uppermost root of the nerve of Bell, from the fifth cervical nerve as it lies upon scalenus medius. Draw the fifth cervical nerve forwards, and the branch in question will be seen passing backwards through the fibres of that muscle to reach the deep surface of the levator anguli scapulae. It here meets the posterior scapular artery, and proceeds with it downwards under cover of the rhomboid muscles close to the base of the scapula. It supplies one or two twigs to the levator anguli scapulae, and is finally exhausted in the rhomboids. The fierve to the subclavius is a minute twig which springs from the upper trunk of the plexus, and then passes verti- cally downwards upon the plexus, and across the subclavian artery to the subclavius muscle, which it reaches by piercing the posterior lamina of its sheath. A communication between the nerve to the subclavius and the phrenic is by no means uncommon. This connecting filament may join the phrenic in the neck or in the thorax. In all probability, it represents that communicating twig (or at least a portion of it) which, on other occasions, passes directly from the fifth cervical nerve to the phrenic. The supra-scapular nerve is the largest branch given off above the clavicle. It springs from the upper trunk of the plexus, and runs downwards, outwards, and backwards, at a