304 HEAD AND NECK. part of the epicranial aponeurosis and of the two upper ear muscles. The temporal fascia is in this manner laid bare. The Temporal Fascia is a strong glistening aponeurosis which is stretched over the temporal fossa, and binds down the muscle of the same name. Its upper margin is attached to the upper of the two rough lines which constitute the temporal ridge on the lateral aspect of the skull, and in front to the temporal crest of the frontal bone. As it approaches the zygomatic arch, it splits into two laminae, which are separated from each other by a narrow interval filled with fat. These are attached to the outer and inner margins of the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and to the posterior border of the malar bone. They can readily be demonstrated by dividing the superficial layer close to its attachment, and throwing it upwards ; by the handle of the knife the attachment of the deep layer can then be made out. In the upper part of its extent, the temporal fascia is comparatively thin, and the fibres of the subjacent muscle may be seen shining through it; below it is thicker, and owing to the fat which is interposed between its laminae, it becomes perfectly opaque. Dissection.—The masseter muscle must now be thoroughly cleaned. To do this effectually, it will be necessary to divide the trunk of the facial nerve immediately beyond the point where it gives off the branches to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and throw it forwards, with the various branches which spring from it, towards the buccal region. The transverse facial artery must be likewise turned backwards. The dissector will recollect that he has previously removed from the surface of the masseter a forward prolongation of the parotid gland, the socia parotidis, Stenson's duct, twigs from the great auricular nerve, scattered fibres of the platysma, and the origin of the risorius muscle. The Masseter is a massive quadrate muscle which Hes upon the ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Its fibres are arranged in two sets—a superficial and a deep. The super- ficial part of the muscle arises from anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch, and its fasciculi are directed downwards and backwards. The deep part springs