514 THE BRAIX. mesial border which receives the name of gyrus rectus (Fig. 2S5). The orbital sulcus (tri-radiate sulcus of Turner) is a com- pound furrow which assumes many different forms. Most frequentiy it takes the shape of the letter |-| . and we then recognise three component parts—^-yl.. an external Hmb. an internal limb, and a transverse Hmb. The external limb (sulcus orbitahs externus) curs'es round the orbital part of the inferior frontal gyrus, so as to limit it internally (Fig. 285, e). The internal limb (sulcus orbitalis internus) marks off a convolution between itseh' and the olfactory sulcus which receives the name of g}-rus orbitalis internus (Fig. 285, I). The tranrcerse limb or sulcus orbitalis transversus (Fig. 285, tr) takes a curs-ed course with the concavity directed backwards. It divides the district between the external and internal limbs into an anterior part, OTgyrus orbitalis anterior {¥\g. 285, M), and a posterior part, or gyms orbitalis posterior (Fig. 285, P). The latter corresponds with the greater part of the orbital operculum. Boundaries of the Parietal Lobe.—The parietal lobe forms a considerable part of the external face of the cerebral hemisphere, and it also appears on the mesial face in the form of the praecuneus or quadrate lobule. /// front, it is bounded by the fissure of Rolando, which separates it from the frontal lobe. Behm\ it is bounded in its fore part by the posterior horizontal Umb of the Sylvian fissure. Behind the upturned end of this fissure it is quite continuous inferiorly with the temporal lobe, and an arbitrar}- line drawn backwards on the surface of the brain in continuation of the horizontal part of the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius is taken as its inferior limit (Fig. 283). Posteriorly, it is separated from the occipital lobe at the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere by the external parietooccipital fissure. Below this it is more or less directly continuous with the occipital lobe, and an arbitrary hne drawn across the outer surface of the hemisphere from the extremity of