248 HEAD AND NECK. The phrenic nerve gives off no branches in the neck, but before it enters the thorax, it is usually joined by a small sympathetic twig. Communicating Branches.—(i) At the base of the skull, the first loop of the cervical plexus is brought into close con- nection, by means of connecting twigs, with the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. These cannot be displayed at present, but will be examined in a subsequent dissection. (2) Each of the four cervical nerves which form the plexus is con- nected by means of one or more communicating filaments with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. (3) Communications are effected indirectly in two places by the second, third, and fourth nerves with the spinal accessory, viz., in the substance of the sterno-mastoid by the twig from the second nerve to this muscle, and again on the under surface of the trapezius by the branches w^hich go to this muscle from the third and fourth nerves. Common Carotid Artery (arteria carotis communis).— The common carotid is the great artery of supply to the head and the neck. Its origin is different on the two sides of the body. On the right side, it springs with the subclavian from the innominate artery behind the upper part of the sterno- clavicular articulation; on the left side, it arises within the thorax, from the aortic arch. In both cases the common carotid ends opposite the fourth cervical vertebra, or at a level corresponding to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the external and internal carotid branches. The point at which this subdivision takes place is subject to a considerable amount of variation within certain limits, and it has been noticed that in short necked individuals the common carotid artery is relatively longer than in long necked people. The course which the common carotid arteries pursue in the neck, and the relations which they exhibit, are so much alike on the two sides that one description will suffice for both. The course of the common carotid is slightly oblique, and