REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 129 ■This expansion of the superior longitudinal sinus is termed the torciilar Herophili, dcX^di it communicates by means of a transverse channel, which crosses the front of the internal occipital protuberance, with the commencement of the lateral sinus of the opposite side. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus (sinus sagittalis inferior).— Fig. 194 (ySsi).—This small sinus runs backwards in the lower free border of the falx cerebri. It begins at a variable point behind the crista galli, and ends posteriorly at the anterior free edge of the tentorium, where it pours its blood into the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus (sinus rectus) extends backwards and downwards in the mesial plane, from the anterior free edge of the tentorium to the internal occipital protuberance. Its course corresponds with the attachment of the posterior broad end of the falx cerebri to the upper surface of the tentorium. Indeed, it is formed by the opening out of the two layers of the falx on the upper surface of the tentorium. At its anterior extremity it receives the blood from the inferior longitudinal sinus and the vena magna Galeni. The latter returns the blood from the interior of the cere- brum, and its ruptured end may be noticed at the point where it enters the straight sinus (Fig. 193, p. 126). At the internal occipital protuberance, the straight sinus bends suddenly outwards, in a direction opposite to that taken by the superior longitudinal sinus, and it forms the lateral sinus of that side. A few small cerebellar veins pour their blood into the straight sinus. Occipital Sinus (sinus occipitalis).—Fig. 194 {So).—This is a minute blood channel, which is placed between the layers of the falx cerebelli. Above, it opens into the tor- cular Herophili^ whilst below, at the foramen magnum, it bifurcates, and the two divisions not unfrequently run for- wards to join the lower end of the lateral sinus upon either side. Sometimes the occipital sinus is double throughout its whole course. VOL. II.—9