HEAD AND NECK. general law that wherever there is an increase in the bulk of the nerves attached to a particular part of the cord, that there a corresponding increase of the grey matter may be noticed. It follows from this that the districts in which the grey matter bulks most largely are the lumbar and cervical swellings. The great nerves which go to form the limb plexuses enter and pass out from those portions of the cord. In the intermediate dorsal region there is a reduction in the quantity of grey matter in correspondence with the smaller size of the dorsal nerves. But the shape of the crescentic masses is not the same in all regions. In the dorsal region both horns are narrow, although the distinction between the anterior horn and the still more attenuated posterior horn is still sufficiently manifest. In the cervical region the contrast between the cornua is most marked; the anterior horn is very thick in comparison with the much narrower posterior horn. In the lumbar region, on the other hand, the difference in the thickness of the two horns is not nearly so apparent owing to a broaden- ing out of the posterior horn. A section taken from the centre of each of these regions can be very readily recognised by these features. In the dorsal region of the cord, more especially in the upper part, there is another character which is very distinctive. A pointed and prominent triangular projection juts out from the external aspect of the crescentic mass of grey matter nearly opposite the grey commissure. This is called the lateral horn (Figs. 205 and 206). Traced upwards into the cervical region of the cord and downwards into the lumbar region, it is seen to blend with the anterior horn, and it contributes in these districts to the thickening of that cornu. Curiously enough it again becomes evident in the sacral region of the cord. The White Matter of the Spinal Cord.—The white matter forms a thick coating on the outside of the fluted column of grey matter. It is marked off into three columns. The