2o6 HEAD AND NECK. passing the forefinger downwards along the outer margin of the scalenus anticus, the scalene tubercle on the first rib will be reached. When the finger-nail rests on this tubercle the finger-pulp is applied to the artery, and in the living subject will feel its pulsations. Supra-scapular and Transversalis Colli Arteries.—Both of these arteries will be observed emerging from under cover of the outer border of the sterno-mastoid. Their origin from the thyroid axis will be seen in a subsequent dissection. The supra-scapular artery (arteria transversa scapulae) proceeds outwards under shelter of the clavicle and across the third part of the subclavian artery and the brachial nerves. At the outer limit of the supra-clavicular triangle it passes under cover of the trapezius to reach the superior border of the scapula where it has already been examined (p. 143). The transversalis colli (arteria transversa colli) is placed at a higher level, and is carried outwards across the posterior triangle. It passes under cover of the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid and, as a rule, superficial to the brachial nerves. It has already been observed to end under cover of the anterior margin of the trapezius, by dividing into the posterior scapular and the superficial cervical arteries (p. 142). Veins.—The arrangement of the veins has been noticed in studying the relations of the subclavian artery. The external jugular vein, as a rule, crosses the third part of this artery and joins the subclavian vein. It is joined close to its termination by the supra-scapular and transversalis colli veins, and perhaps by the anterior jugular as it emerges from under cover of the sterno-mastoid. In many cases, however, the anterior jugular joins the subclavian vein directly. Floor of the Posterior Triangle.—The floor of the posterior triangular space is formed by a succession of muscles, and at its very lowest part by a small portion of the first rib. In the occipital subdivision the dissector will observe that the floor is constituted from above downwards