PONS VAROLII. S17 part of its substance, and is divided into a lateral and a mesial field by the nerve fascicles of the hypoglossal as they traverse the substance of the medulla to reach the surface. In the lateral portion, which lies behind the olive, there is a considerable quantity of grey matter, con- tinuous with that of the cord, present in the reticular formation ; it is therefore called the fo7-inatio grisea. In the mesial part, however, which lies behind the pyramid, the grey matter is extremely scanty, and the reticular matter here is termed the formatio alba. The nerve fibres which traverse the formatio reticularis run both in the transverse and in the longitudinal direction. The transverse fibres are the deep or internal arcuate fibres. The longitudinal fibres are derived from different sources in the two fields. In the lateral part of the formation they represent the fibres of the lateral column (after the removal of the direct cerebellar and the crossed pyramidal tracts) which are continued up under cover of the olive. In the anterior part, or formatio alba, the longitudinal fibres are largely derived from that portion of the anterior column of the cord which lies on the outer side of the direct pyramidal tract (ground-bundle), and which is thrust into the substance of the medulla by the crossing of the pyramids. In this position also two longitudinal strands take origin, viz., the fillet and the posterior longitudinal bundle. Both lie close to the raphe. The fillet is placed immediately behind the pyramid, and is formed, as described, by the decussating internal arcuate fibres. The posterior longi- tudinal bundle takes form in the upper part of the medulla, immediately subjacent to the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is formed by longitudinal fibres of the formatio alba which come from the ground-bundle of the anterior column of the cord. Pons Varolii.—The pons Varolii is the marked pro- minence on the base of the brain which is interposed between the medulla and the crura cerebri, and which lies in front of the cerebellum. It is convex from side to side, as well as from before backwards, and the transverse streaks on its surface show that superficially it is composed of transverse bundles of nerve fibres. On either side, these transverse fibres collect themselves together so as to form a large compact strand which sinks in a backward and outward direction into the white matter of the corresponding hemi- sphere of the cerebellum. This strand is termed the middle cerebellar peduncle. The ventral surface of the pons is in relation to the basilar VOL. II.—37