HEAD AND NECK. 164 muscles—viz., the two recti, the two obhque muscles, and the complexus. In addition to these muscular twigs it gives a communicating^ and sometimes a cutaneous fila77ient. The co7nmunicating branch generally proceeds from the nerve to the obliquus capitis inferior, and joins the great occipital nerve. The cutaneous branch when present accom- panies the occipital artery to the integument over the occiput. Vertebral Artery.—It is only a small portion of this vessel which occupies the sub-occipital triangle. Emerging from the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it runs backwards and inwards in the groove upon the pos- terior arch of the same bone. In this course it crosses the sub-occipital nerve, and lies immediately behind the lateral mass of the atlas. It leaves the space and enters the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum by turning forwards below the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and piercing the dura mater. Small branches proceed from the vertebral artery in this situation to supply the parts in its immediate neighbourhood, and to anastomose with the arteria princeps cervicis and the arteria profunda cervicis. Dissection to open the Spinal Canal.—The first step consists in thoroughly cleaning the vertebral laminae and spinous processes upon either side. The multifidus spinae must also be completely removed from the back of the sacrum. At the same time the posterior primary divisions must be retained, so that their continuity with the various spinal nerve-trunks may be afterwards established. The posterior wall of the spinal canal should now be removed in one piece by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae on either side, and dividing the ligamenta subflava, from the third cervical vertebra down to the lower opening of the canal on the back of the sacrum. In making this dissection the student must attend to the following points :—(i) the cut should be directed through the laminae close to the inner side of the articular processes ; (2) the saw must be used in an oblique plane, so that the cut through the laminae slants slightly inwards ; (3) in cutting through the cervical laminae the head and neck