365 THE SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE. The eyeball should now be inflated. This may be done from the front or from behind. If the latter method is selected gently separate the fat under cover of the superior rectus muscle, and, pushing aside the ciliary nerves and vessels from the optic nerve, place a ligature around it close to the eyeball. A minute aperture should next be made in the sheath of the nerve behind the ligature, and, introducing a blow-pipe into this, thrust it forcibly forwards into the interior of the eyeball. The pipe should be provided with a stylette so as to keep the aperture free. When the globe of the eye is fully inflated, the ligature may be tightened as the blow-pipe is withdrawn. A very much better plan, however, is to inflate the eyeball from the front. For this purpose an oblique valvular aperture is made in an inward direction through the sclero-corneal junction with the point of a sharp narrow bladed knife. Through this the blow-pipe may be introduced, and on its withdrawal after the inflation of the eyeball the valvular character of the opening is sufficient to prevent the escape of the air. At the back of the eyeball the dissector will notice a quantity of loose bursal-like tissue. This is the Capsule of Tenon. Seize the upper part of this with the forceps, and remove a small portion with a pair of scissors. An aperture is thus made into the capsule, and the handle of the knife can be introduced into the space between it and the eyeball. In favourable cases the extent of the capsule can be gauged, and perhaps even the prolongations or sheaths which it gives to the tendons of the ocular muscles made out. The description of the capsule of Tenon is given in p. 376. Rectus Superior.—The rectus superior, which lies under cover of the levator palpebrae superioris, is now fully exposed. It arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards above the optic nerve, ends upon the upper aspect of the eyeball in a thin, delicate tendon, which expands somewhat to be inserted into the sclerotic coat about three or four lines behind the sclero-corneal junction. It is supplied by a branch from the superior division of the oculomotor nerve. The Superior Oblique Muscle arises from the roof of the orbit immediately in front of the upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and extends forwards along the inner wall of the cavity above the internal rectus. At the fore part of the orbit it ends in a slender tendon, which enters the pulley and at once changes its direction. It now pro-