91 THORACIC CAVITY. by the posterior intercostal membrane, the connections of which can now be ascertained. The posterior i?itercostal membrane is a strong aponeurotic layer which is continuous internally with the outer margin of the superior costo-transverse ligament, and extends outwards upon the deep surface of the external intercostal muscle. At the inner margin of the internal intercostal muscle it passes between the two intercostal muscular strata and is gradually lost. The intercostal vessels and nerve extend outwards upon its anterior aspect under cover of the pleura. The subcostal muscles are also displayed. They are small fleshy fasciculi placed upon the ribs, internal to their angles. The muscular fibres which compose them have the same direction as the internal intercostal muscles. They extend over one or, in many cases, two intercostal spaces. Dissection.—Remove the posterior intercostal membrane from one or two of the spaces, and the subjacent externa] intercostal nmscles will be brought into view. These muscles reach backwards as far as the tubercles of the ribs. Intercostal Arteries and Nerves.—The aortic intercostal arteries have already been seen taking origin from the thoracic aorta. One is given to each of the nine lower intercostal spaces upon both sides of the body. As the aorta lies somewhat to the left of the middle line, the right aortic intercostal arteries are longer than those of the left side. In both cases they run outwards over the bodies of the vertebrae, and under cover of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. On the right side, the arteries also pass under cover of the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major. As they leave the vertebral column to enter the intercostal spaces, each of the vessels gives off a large dorsal branch which passes backwards in the interval between the transverse processes and is distributed to the muscles and skin of the back. From this branch a spinal tivig is supplied through the intervertebral foramen