THORACIC CAVITY. II The superior epigastric artery (arteria epigastrica superior) enters the sheath of the rectus muscle of the abdominal wall by passing downwards behind the seventh costal cartilage. The musculo-phrcfiic artery (arteria musculo-phrenica) turns outwards and downwards along the costal origin of the diaphragm and behind the rib-cartilages. Opposite the eighth costal cartilage it pierces the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. It gives off the anterior intercostal arteries to the lower intercostal spaces (p. 7). The Triangularis Sterni (transversus thoracis) is a thin muscular layer placed on the deep surface of the sternum and costal cartilages. It is continuous below with the trans- versalis muscle of the abdominal wall, and arises from the posterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, the lower part of the body of the sternum, and from the inner ends of the 5th, 6th, and 7 th costal cartilages. From this origin its fibres radiate in an upward and outward direction, and separate into five slips, which are inserted into the deep surfaces and lower borders of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th costal cartilages, close to their junction with the ribs (Fig. 155, and PI. II.). In many cases the muscle is feebly developed, and does not show connections so wide as those which are described above. Upon the superficial aspect of the triangularis sterni are placed the internal mammary artery and the series of intercostal nerves. It is only a partial view of the muscle which is obtained in the present dissection, but it is not advisable to remove the costal cartilages to expose it further, as this would very materially interfere with the subsequent display, in their proper relations, of other more important structures. THORACIC CAVITY. The arrangement of the two pleural sacs within the thoracic cavity must now engage the attention of the student; but in order that the relations of these may be understood, it is absolutely necessary that the dissector should have some preliminary knowledge of the thoracic