THE BRAIN. 5o6 The anterior horizontal limb (Fig. 283, S^) extends horizon- tally forwards in the frontal lobe for a distance of about three- quarters of an inch immediately above and parallel to the posterior part of the superciliary margin of the hemisphere. The ascending li7?ib (Fig. 283, S^) proceeds upwards with a slight inclination forwards into the lower part of the outer surface of the frontal lobe for a distance of about an inch or less. In many cases the two anterior limbs spring from a common stem of greater or less length (Fig. 283). Limiting Sulcus of Reil (sulcus circularis Reilii).—If the lips of the Sylvian fissure be now gently but widely pulled asunder, the island of Reil or the central lobe will be seen at the bottom. This is surrounded by a hmiting sulcus, of which we recognise three parts, viz., an upper part bounding it above, a lower part marking it off below, and an anterior part limiting it in front. The insula thus mapped out is somewhat triangular in form. Opercula Insulse.—The present is a good time to study the manner in which the insula is shut off from the surface of the hemisphere. When the fissure of Sylvius is held widely open, it will be observed that the insula is overlaid by portions of cerebral cortex which appear as if they were undermined. These by the approximation of their margins or lips form the three limbs of the fissure of Sylvius, and are termed the insular opercula. It will be noticed that the limbs of the Sylvian fissure cut right through between the different opercula, and extend from the surface of the hemisphere to the surface of the island of Reil. The oper- cula are four in number, and are named—(i) temporal, (2) fronto-parietal, (3) frontal, and (4) orbital. They are easily distinguished. The temporal operculu?7i extends upwards over the insula from the temporal lobe; it forms the lower lip of the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. The fronto-parietal operculum is carried downwards over the insula to meet the temporal operculum. Its margin