SIDE OF THE NECK. 215 as it approaches the hyoid bone, its minute thyro-hyoicl branch will be discovered, leaving its lower border at an acute angle, and proceeding downwards and forwards to reach the thyro-hyoid muscle. The external laryngeal nerve is a long slender branch which occupies a deeper plane. To expose it the carotid vessels should be pulled outwards from the larynx, and the loose tissue in the interval thus opened up divided care- fully in an oblique direction and along a line connecting the cricoid car- tilage with the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. The nerve will be found as it passes downwards and forwards to disappear under cover of the depressor muscles of the larynx. It will be traced to its ultimate distribution at a subsequent stage of the dissection. Muscular Triangle.—As this triangle is gradually opened up the following structures will come into view :— 1. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. 2. The branches from the ansa hypoglossi to these muscles. 3. The external laryngeal nerve. 4. The superior th)7roid artery. 5. The greater part of the larynx, the thyroid body, and the trachea. 6. The oesophagus on the left side. 7. The recurrent laryngeal nerve. When the fascia is removed from this part of the anterior triangle, the only structures which are seen within its limits are the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. It is for this reason that the term muscular is applied to the space. As the dissection is proceeded with, however, the large nerve of supply for these muscles, which comes from the ansa hypoglossi, will be found lying near the outer border of the sterno-thyroid and breaking up into numerous twigs. Towards the upper part of the space the superior thyroid artery will be noticed passing downwards under cover of the omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles to reach the thyroid body. At a slightly higher level than this artery, the external laryngeal nerve runs forwards to end in the crico-thyroid muscle. Under cover of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will be observed the larynx, the isthmus and a considerable part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and the trachea. The recurrent laryngeal nerve lies deeply. It will be found in the interval between the gullet