3o6 HEAD AND NECK. which constitute the temporal ridge, and downwards as'low as the zygomatic crest of the great wing of the sphenoid. It also receives additional fibres from the deep surface of the temporal fascia which covers it. From this broad origin the fasciculi of the temporal muscle converge towards the coronoid process of the lower jaw. The anterior fibres descend vertically, the posterior fibres at first pursue a nearly horizontal course, whilst the intermediate fasciculi proceed with varying degrees of obliquity. As it approaches its insertion, a tendon is developed upon its superficial aspect, and this is inserted into the summit and anterior edge of the coronoid process of the mandible. The deep part of the muscle remains fleshy, and gains attachment to the inner surface of the same bony prominence by an in- sertion which reaches as low down as the point where the anterior margin of the ramus merges into the body of the mandible. Dissection.—The next step in the dissection of this region consists in separating the coronoid process from the mandible, and turning it upwards with the attached temporal muscle. A very oblique cut is required ; it should extend from the centre of the sigmoid notch above, downwards and forwards, to the point where the anterior margin of the ascending ramus meets the body of the mandible. First use the saw, and then complete the division with the bone-pliers. The long buccal nerve and its companion artery are in a position of great danger during this dissection, and must be carefully guarded. They proceed downwards and forwards under cover of the lower part of the temporal muscle, and not unfrequently the nerve will be found traversing its sub- stance. The coronoid process and the temporal muscle should be thrown well upwards, and the muscular fibres separated by the handle of the knife from the bone forming the lower part of the temporal fossa. This will bring into view the deep temporal nerves and arteries as they ascend between the cranial wall and the muscle. This is the time also to follow the middle te77iporal artery. It will be noticed to give branches to the muscle and extend upwards upon the squamous part of the temporal bone. The te?fiporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve should likewise be traced to the point where it emerges from the minute aperture on the temporal surface of the malar bone. At this point it lies under cover of the temporal muscle. The pterygoid region may now be fully opened up by removing a