THORAX. 98 culates with the bodies of two vertebrae and the intervening intervertebral substance (articulatio capituU costae). The costal head is wedge-shaped, and the socket formed for its reception presents a corresponding form. From the inter- vertebral disc taking part in the formation of the socket, a certain amount of elasticity is communicated to the joint, and shocks given to the thoracic wall are the more success- fully counteracted. The heads of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs are implanted directly upon the bodies of the corresponding vertebrae, although in the case of the first rib the intervertebral disc immediately above also takes a considerable share in the formation of its socket. The articulations between the heads of the ribs and the bodies of the vertebrae are termed the capitular joints (articulationes capitulorum). But the vertebral extremities of the ribs present another series of articulations. The upper ten ribs, by means of their tubercles, rest upon and articulate with the extremities of the transverse processes of the corresponding dorsal vertebra. These joints are termed the cos to-transverse arti- culations (articulationes costo-transversarice). The eleventh and twelfth ribs have no tubercles, and do not articulate with the transverse processes of the vertebrae with which they are connected. Capitular Joints.—These joints belong to the diarth- rodial variety, and are provided with—(i) an anterior capitular ligament; (2) an interarticular ligament; and (3) two synovial membranes. In the case of the four ribs, how- ever, which articulate with the body of one vertebra alone (viz., the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth), the joint cavity is single. . The anterior capitular or stellate liganmit (ligamentum capituli costae radiatum) is placed in front of the joint. It is composed of strong fibres, which radiate in a fan-shaped manner from the head of the rib. Its vertebral attachment is effected by three, more or less distinct, slips—(i) the