430 HEAD AND NECK. jection of the three turbinated bones. In front, it is formed by the lateral cartilage, the cartilage of the aperture, the nasal bone, and the ascending process of the superior maxil- lary bone. Behind these, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, and the inferior turbinated bones, with a small portion of the body of the superior maxillary bone, enter into its construc- tion ; whilst, still farther back, are the vertical plate of the palate bone and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. Placed in relation to the outer' aspect of this wall are the ethmoidal air-cells, which intervene between the upper part of the nasal cavity and the orbit, whilst, at a lower level, the great air-sinus of the superior maxillary bone, termed the antrum of Highmore, is situated immediately to the outer side of the nasal fossa (Fig. 260). The part which the different bones take in the formation of the outer wall of the cavity of the nose must in the first place be studied in a sagittal section through the macerated skull, and the dissector should constantly refer to such a preparation during the dissection. Turning now to the recent specimen, the dissector will observe that the outer wall may very readily be subdivided into three areas or districts. These are—(i) the vestibule, (2) the atrium meatus medii, (3) the region of the turbinated bones and intervening meatuses. — Vestibulum Nasi.—The vestibular part (Fig. 261, 6', 6) of the outer wall is a depression of a somewhat oval form placed immediately above the aperture of the nostril. It is partially divided into an upper and lower portion by a short ridge which projects forwards from its posterior boundary, and it is clothed throughout by integument continuous w4th the skin. From this a number of stout, stiff hairs, termed vibrisscs, project (Fig. 261, 5). The vibrissse which spring from the anterior part of the region incline backw^ards, whilst those which are implanted into the posterior part are directed for- wards ; in this manner a sieve-like arrangement is provided at the anterior aperture of the nose. The vestibular part of the outer wall is placed opposite the corresponding area on