THE TYMPANIC CAVITY OR MIDDLE EAR. 597 muscle, the delicate tendon of which enters the tympanic cavity through the aperture on the summit of the pyramid. On the outer side of the pyramid is the aperture on the posterior wall through which the chorda tympani nerve enters the tympanum. The anterior wall is narrow, because the inner and outer walls become somewhat approximated to each other as they are traced forwards. In its upper part it is deficient, as here the tympanic cavity is directly continued into the osseous part of the Eustachian tube. Above this is the canal, in which is lodged the tensor tympani muscle. In its lower part, below the orifice of the Eustachian tube, the anterior wall is formed by an exceedingly thin plate of bone which intervenes between the tympanic cavity and the ascending part of the carotid canal. This anatomical relation explains the throbbings in the ear, synchronous with the pulsations of the heart, from which certain patients suffer. The inner ivall which intervenes between the tympanum and the labyrinth presents certain very important points for study. The greater part of this wall bulges outwards into the cavity in the form of a very evident elevation termed the promontory. Above the hinder part of the promontory there is an oval foramen, the long axis of which is directed from before backwards. This is the fenestra ovalis, an opening into the vestibular part of the labyrinth, which is closed in the recent state by the foot-piece of the stapes, the innermost of the auditory ossicles. The pyramid on the posterior wall will be seen to lie immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Above the fenestra ovalis, in the angle formed by the meet- ing of the roof and inner wall of the tympanum, a ridge, arching from before backwards, will be seen. This is produced by the aqueduct of Fallopius bulging into the tympanum. Its wall is very thin, and allows the white colour of the facial nerve which is contained within the canal to be readily seen. In front of this ridge, in the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum is the