464 HEAD AND NECK. Dissection.—The mucous membrane and muscles must be carefully removed from the cartilages, and the epiglottidean, crico-thyroid, and crico-arytenoid ligaments defined. Great caution must be exercised in cleaning the arytenoid cartilages and the cartilages of Santorini, in order that the slender ligaments which attach the latter to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage may be preserved (Fig. 270, p. 467). The Epiglottis is a thin leaf-like lamina of yellow fibro- cartilage placed behind the root of the tongue and in front of the superior opening of the larynx. When divested of the mucous membrane which covers it, it will be seen to present a somewhat heart-shaped form, and to be indented by deep pits and numerous perforations in which glands are lodged. Its broad end is directed upwards and is free; its margins are almost completely enclosed within the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. The anterior surface is only free in its upper part; below, it is in relation to the thyro-hyoid ligament, from which, however, it is separated by adipose tissue and some mucous glands. The posterior surface is free in all its extent and bounds the vestibule of the larynx in front. Epiglottidean Ligaments.—The epiglottis is bound by ligaments to the root of the tongue, to the hyoid bone, and to the thyroid cartilage. The three glosso-epiglottidean folds have already been studied. In each there is a small quantity of elastic tissue. The hyo-epiglottidean ligament is a short, broad elastic band which connects the anterior face of the epiglottis to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. The thyro-epiglottidean liga7?ie?it is strong, elastic and thick. It proceeds downwards from the lower pointed extremity of the epiglottis, and is attached to ' the angular depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, below and behind the median notch. The Thyroid is the largest of the laryngeal cartilages. It is composed of two broad somewhat quadrilateral plates, termed the «/^, which meet in front at an acute angle and constitute the projection in the neck known as the pomum