6o2 THE AUDITORY APPARATUS. which the fangs are very divergent. It presents a body with a long and a short process. The body is provided with an articular surface which looks forwards and articulates with the head of the malleus. The short process is directed back- wards, and its extremity is attached by ligaments to the posterior wall of the tympanum near the opening into the mastoidal antrum. The long process proceeds downwards and inwards in a direction nearly parallel to that of the manubrium of the malleus, but internal, and on a plane posterior to that process. From the inner side of its inferior extremity a small knob of bone (os orbiculare) projects. This articulates with the head of the stapes. The malleus and incus move together on an axis which is formed by the processus gracilis of the malleus and the short process of the incus. The articular surfaces of the two bones are provided with peculiar catch- teeth which interlock when the bones are performing their ordinary movements. When, however, force is applied to the inner surface of the membrana tympani, as, for instance, when the tympanum is inflated through the Eustachian tube, the malleo- incudal joint gapes and the malleus moves by itself. Traction upon the attachments of the stapes, through the incus, is thus obviated. The stapes is shaped like a stirrup and presents a head or outer extremity separated by a slightly constricted neck from two Hmbs or crura which join an internal plate or foot-piece. The head is excavated by an articular cup for the os orbiculare of the incus. The crura are grooved longitudinally on their concave sides (sulcus stapedis). The posterior crus is more sharply curved than the anterior crus. The foot-piece fits into the fenestra ovalis and corresponds in its outline with this aperture. Its lower border is straight whilst its upper border is curved. Fig. 323.—The right stapes. (SCHWALBE.) 1. The foot-piece. 2. Anterior crus. 3. Posterior crus. 4. Head or capitulum. 5. Neck. 6. Sulcus stapedis.