THORACIC CAVITY. 63 matter of some importance. Theptdmonary aperture is the most super- ficial, and lies behind the upper part of the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the left margin of the sternum. The pulmonary artery itself lies behind the anterior end of the second left intercostal space. The aortic openiiig is placed more deeply and at a slightly lower level. It is situated behind the left margin of the sternum opposite the lower border of the junction, between the third left costal cartilage and the sternum. The right auriculo-ventrindar orifice lies behind the sternum, close to the extremity of the fourth intercostal space of the right side. The left atirictdo-ventricular opening is very deeply placed. It is situated behind the left margin of the sternum at the level of its junction with the fourth left costal cartilage. Dissection.—The aorta should now be examined, and the various structures in relation to it must be carefully dissected out. The Aorta.—The aorta is the great arterial trunk which conveys blood from the left ventricle of the heart, and dis- tributes it by means of its branches to every part of the body. After leaving the heart it arches over the root of the left lung, and proceeds downwards in front of the vertebral column. It leaves the thoracic cavity by passing through a special open- ing in the diaphragm, and it ends in the abdominal cavity upon the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The part of this great vessel which is contained within the chest is divided, for convenience in description, into three portions : viz., the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, and the descending thoracic aorta. The ascending aorta takes origin from the base of the left ventricle of the heart, and proceeds obliquely upwards and to the right behind the sternum. It also inclines, to some extent, forwards, so as to approach more closely to the anterior wall of the chest. Reaching the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, it changes its direction, and passes into the aortic arch. In the first instance the aortic arch bends upwards and to the left in front of the trachea, and then turns suddenly backwards so as to gain the low^er border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. Here the vessel makes a bend in a downward