594 THE AUDITORY APPARATUS. or drum of the ear. It is interposed between the external auditory passage and the internal ear or labyrinth, and its outer wall is formed by the membrana tympani. Stretch- ing across the cavity of the tympanum, from its outer to its inner wall, there is a chain of three minute bones called the auditory ossicles. The internal ear or labyrinth is the essential part of the organ. It consists of a complicated system of cavities in the densest part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. These cavities contain fluid called perilymph, and also a membranous counterpart of the bony chambers called the membranous labyrinth. Within the latter there is fluid termed endolymph. Dissection.—In a temporal bone to which the pinna is still attached the sc|uamous portion should be removed by a horizontal saw-cut at the level of the posterior root of the zygoma. With the chisel and bone forceps the roof and anterior wall of the auditory passage should then be taken away piecemeal, until a good view is obtained of the outer surface of the membrana tympani. Meatus Auditorius Externus.—The pinna has already been described (p. 291). The meatus is directed inwards and slightly forwards, and describes a gentle curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards. It is about one inch and a half in length, and in its outer part (about half- an-inch in length) its walls are composed of cartilage and fibrous tissue, whilst in its inner part its walls are bony. The passage is narrower in the inner bony portion than in the outer cartilaginous part. The skin lining the carti- laginous portion is abundantly furnished with ceruminous glands, and is also provided with outwardly-directed hairs, which tend to prevent the entrance of dust. The cutaneous lining of the inner half, which is thin and tightly adherent to the subjacent periosteum, is destitute of hairs, and glands are for the most part absent. A small patch of glands, however, is found at the upper and back part of the osseous meatus, at its junction with the cartilaginous portion. The cutaneous lining of the meatus is continued in the form of