538 THE BRAIN. The roof oi the descending horn is formed for the most part by the tapetum of the corpus callosum. At the extremity of the horn, the roof presents a sHght bulging into the ventricular cavity. This is the amygdaloid tubercle and it is produced by a superjacent collection of grey matter, termed the amygdaloid nucleus. The tcenia semicircularis and the greatly attenuated tail of the caudate nucleus are both prolonged into the descending horn, and are carried forwards in its roof to the amygdaloid nucleus in which they both end. On the floor of the descending horn the dissector will observe the following parts: (i) the hippocampus major; (2) the choroid plexus ; (3) the fimbria; (4) the trigonum ventricuH ; and (5) the eminentia collateralis. The Hippocampus Major (cornu ammonis) is for the most part covered by the choroid plexus. It is a prominent elevation on the floor of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, and is strongly curved in conformity with the course taken by the horn in which it lies. It therefore presents an internal concave border, and an external convex margin. Narrow behind, it enlarges as it is traced forwards, and it ends below the amygdaloid tubercle in a thickened extremity which presents some faint grooves or notches on its surface. In consequence of this, the anterior end of the hippocampus major receives the name of the pes hippocampi. The hippocampus major is the internal elevation which corresponds to the dentate or hippocampal fissure on the exterior of the cerebrum. The Fimbria (taenia hippocampi) is a narrow but very distinct band of white matter which is attached by its outer margin along the concave inner border of the hippocampus major. The white matter composing it is continuous with the thin white layer (alveus) which is spread over the surface of the hippocampus major, and it presents two free surfaces and a sharp free inner border. The fimbria has already been examined in connection with the hippocampal fissure and the gyrus dentatus, and the relations which it presents to