252 HEAD AND NECK. Inter-carotic Body—(Fig. 213, p. 217).—This is a little oval reddish-brown body, placed upon the deep aspect of the common carotid artery at the point where it bifurcates. To expose it, therefore, the vessel must be twisted round in such a manner that its posterior surface comes to look forwards. It is closely connected with the sympathetic filaments which twine around the carotid vessels, and for a time was regarded as belonging to the sympathetic nervous system. Its structure, however, shows it to be an arterial gland similar in its nature to the minute coccygeal body which rests upon the anterior aspect of the tip of the coccyx. Entering it are numerous minute arterial twigs, which take origin from the termination of the common carotid and the commencement of the external carotid. The function of this remarkable little body is quite un- known. Most likely it is a vestigial structure in connection with the second visceral cleft. The External Carotid Artery (arteria carotis externa) commences at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, taking an upward course, it ends in the substance of the parotid gland, immediately behind the neck of the lower jaw, by dividing into the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. It is termed external not on account of its position in relation to the internal carotid, but on account of its being mainly distributed to parts on the exterior of the skull. Indeed, at its origin its position in relation to the internal carotid is the very reverse of that which its name implies. It lies in front of the internal carotid, and somewhat to its inner side. As it ascends, however, it inclines slightly backwards, so that very shortly it comes to lie directly over the internal carotid. The external carotid artery may be divided very con- veniently into three stages, corresponding to three marked changes in the relations which it presents. The first stage is contained within the carotid triangle. It is therefore, comparatively speaking, superficial. Here it is overlapped