22 THORAX, ducted, and, consequently, it is important that the student should acquire an accurate conception of its extent and connections. We have noted that the mediastinal portion of the pleura extends backwards from the front wall of the thorax on either side of the mesial plane, in the form of an intra-thoracic partition. This forms the lateral boundary of the space, whilst in front, it is bounded by the sternum, and behind, by the vertebral column. But it is customary to subdivide in an arbitrary manner the mediastinal space into four portions, termed respectively superior, anterior, middle, and posterior, according to the relations which they present to the pericardium. Superior Mediastinum.—This is the part of the general mediastinal space which lies above the level of the peri- cardium. Its boimdaries are the following:—In front^ the manubrium sterni, to the posterior aspect of which are attached the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles ; behind^ the upper four dorsal vertebrae with the longus colli muscles; beloiv, an imaginary and oblique plane extending from the lower border of the manubrium sterni backwards and upwards to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra; and laterally, the mediastinal pleura as it extends on each side from the back of the sternum to the vertebral column. Figs. 176 and 178 (pp. 65 and 68) are reproduced from tracings of two sections through the superior mediastinum at different levels. Fig. 178 represents a section through its upper part, and Fig. 176 a section through its lower part at the level of the fourth dorsal vertebra. The boundaries, form, and contents of the space are clearly seen. Within the superior mediastinum are placed—(i) the aortic arch, and the three great vessels which spring from it; (2) the innominate veins and the superior vena cava in its upper part; (3) the trachea, gullet, and thoracic duct; (4) the vagus, phrenic, left recurrent laryngeal and cardiac nerves; (5) the thymus gland. The relative positions of these can