THORACIC CAVITY. 45 longitudinalis posterior). This joins the anterior groove below, round the right sharp margin of the heart, and is placed nearer the right than the left margin. These grooves are occupied by vessels and lodge a little fat. They indicate on the surface the anterior and posterior attach- ments of the interventricular septum, and therefore the extent of the walls of the two cavities. Roughly speaking, two-thirds of the anterior surface, the margo acutus, and rather more than one-third of the posterior surface, belong to the right ventricle; whilst one-third of the anterior sur- face, the margo obtusus, the apex of the heart, and rather less than two-thirds of the posterior surface, belong to the left ventricle. On the anterior surface of the heart a bulging of the wall of the right ventricle will be noticed in its upper and front part. This is termed the infundibulum or conus arteri- osus. From its summit the pulmonary artery takes origin. Dissection.—The vessels and nerves which are distributed to the sub- stance of the heart may now be dissected. The main trunks occupy the furrows, and can be exposed by removing the epicardium and the soft fat which is genera,lly placed around them. In a young subject, where the fat is scanty and the vessels well injected, very little dissection is required. The nerves are exceedingly delicate and derived from the cardiac plexus. It is seldom that they can be satisfactorily displayed in an ordinary dissecting room subject. The Coronary Arteries are the nutrient vessels of the heart. They are two in number, and spring from the root of the ascending aorta. It is here, therefore, that they must in the first instance be sought, by dissecting deeply in the auriculo-ventricular furrow. The left coronary artery (arteria coronaria sinistra) springs from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva,^ and proceeds outwards behind the pulmonary artery. It winds round the left side of the heart (ramus circumflexus), and ends on its posterior aspect. Through- out its entire course it lies in the auriculo-ventricular ^ The three sinuses of Valsalva are three bulgings of the wall of the aortic root. One is on the front, and the other two on the back of the vessel.