HEAD AND NECK. 244 The right lymphatic duct is the corresponding vessel upon the right side. It is a very insignificant duct, and draws its supply of lymph from a much more restricted field. In length it rarely measures more than half-an-inch. It will be found at the inner margin of the scalenus anticus opening into the angle of union between the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the right side. As in the case of the thoracic duct, its orifice is guarded by a double valve. Cervical Pleura.—The pleural sac of each side, with the apex of the corresponding lung, projects upwards into the root of the neck, and the dissector should now examine the height to which it rises, and the connections which it estabHshes. Its height varies in different subjects. In some cases it extends up for two inches above the sternal end of the first rib; in others for not more than one inch. It forms a dome-like roof for each side of the thoracic cavity, and is strengthened by a fascial expansion (frequently termed Sibson^s fascia) which covers it completely, and is attached on the one hand to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and on the other to the inner margin of the first rib. Observe, further, that the cervical pleura is supported above by the scalene muscles, under cover of which it ascends into the neck, and that the sub- clavian artery arches outwards upon its anterior surface near its apex. Cervical Plexus (Fig. 218).—This plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves. These nerves are much smaller than the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus, and they have only a short course to run as independent trunks. With the ex- ception of the first, each divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these joining with each other, con- stitute the plexus, which, therefore, consists of three loops. The descending branch of the fourth nerve which is very small proceeds downwards to unite with the fifth nerve, and thus establish a connection with the brachial plexus.