SIDE OF THE NECK. 203 In front, the posterior triangle is bounded by the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and behi?id, by the anterior margin of the trapezius. The Ixise which is below is formed by the middle third of the clavicle, whilst the aj)ex which is above is formed by the meeting of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius on the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, which crosses the lower part of the posterior triangular space, subcUvides it into an upper portion called the occipital triangle, and a lower part termed the supra-clavicular or subclavian triangle. The Occipital Triangle is much the larger subdivision. It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid ; behind by the trapezius; whilst its base is formed by the omo-hyoid. Within the limits of the occipital triangle, we find the following structures :— 1. The occipital artery in a very small part of its course, and only when the sterno-mastoid fails to meet the trapezius at the apex of the triangle. 2. The spinal accessory nerve. 3. The branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves which cross the space to supply the trapezius muscle. 4. The superficial branches of the cervical plexus as they appear at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid previous to piercing the deep fascia. 5. Branches of supply to the levator anguli scapulx from the third and fourth cervical nerves. 6. The transversalis colli artery and vein, which cross the lower part of the space. 7. The upper part of the brachial plexus of nerves. The contents of the occipital triangle have already in a great measure been studied (p. 141). The Supra-Clavicular Triangle is a very small space. It is bounded above by the omo-hyoid; below by the clavicle ; and in front by the sterno-mastoid. The area thus circum- scribed is very variable in its extent in different subjects. Indeed, in the natural position of parts, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid passes forwards so close to the clavicle that a very small interval is left between them, and it is