DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 333 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. In the deep dissection of the neck the following structures are displayed :— 1. The styloid process, with the three muscles which take origin from it. 2. The internal carotid artery. 3. The ascending pharyngeal artery. 4. The tonsillitic and ascending palatine branches of the facial artery. 5. The internal jugular vein. 6. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 7. Vagus nerve. 8. Spinal accessory nerve. 9. Hypoglossal nerve. 10. The cervical part of the sympathetic cord. 11. The first loop of the cervical plexus. 12. The rectus lateralis muscle. Dissection.—Before the dissection is commenced, the skull-cap, which, up to the present time, has been retained in position by the flaps of scalp stitched over it, should be removed. The floor of the cranium should then be cleansed by sponging it with spirit and carbolic solution. To expose the styloid process and its muscles, it is necessary to turn aside the posterior belly of the digastric, and the external carotid artery. Detach the former from its origin, and throw it downwards and forwards towards the hyoid bone. Its nerve of supply from the facial must also be cut, and if the filament which connects this branch with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve has not been previously seen it should now be sought for. The external carotid artery may be divided immediately below the point where it divides into its two terminal branches. After cutting the occipital and posterior auricular arteries, it can be turned forwards out of the way. Of the parts in connection with the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-glossus muscles and the stylo-hyoid ligament have been already fully examined ; the stylo-pharyngeus muscle alone remains to be described. In cleaning the fibres of this muscle, be careful not to injure the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which appears at its lower border, and gives to it its nerve of supply. The Stylo-pharyngeus is the longest of the three slender muscles which spring from the styloid process. It arises