THORACIC CAVITY. 13 with the base of the heart by several large vessels which pierce the pericardium, and these, with the corresponding division of the windpipe passing to the lung, constitute the pulmonary root or pedicle. The lungs are free within the thorax except where they are attached by their roots. Pleural Sacs.—The pleural sacs are two in number, one in each side of the chest cavity. They are serous sacs, and therefore closed. Each pleural bag is so disposed that it not only lines the recess in which the lung lies, but is also reflected over the lung so as to give to it an external covering, which is intimately connected with the pulmonary substance. We recognise, therefore, in connection with each pleura a lining or parietal part, and an invesiifig or visceral part. It must be clearly understood, however, that these terms are merely applied to indicate different portions of one continuous membrane. The dissection which has already been made shows the pleura lining the deep surface of the costal arches and internal intercostal muscles. This portion is called the pleura costalis. The manner in which the pleura of each side is reflected backwards from the posterior aspect of the sternum must now be investigated. This entails a some- what complicated dissection. Dissection.—The sternum must be divided with the saw into four portions by three separate cuts, viz. (i) a transverse section through the manubrium sterni, on a line with the lower margins of the first pair of costal cartilages; (2) a transverse cut through the lower part of the body of the sternum, in the interval between the fifth and sixth costal cartilages; (3) an oblique section, beginning below at the inferior transverse cut, close to the left margin of the sternum, and carried up- wards to the middle of the superior transverse cut. By the last section the central portion of the sternum is divided into two lateral pieces, to each of which four costal arches are attached (Fig. 157).^ In making these sections through the sternum, the saw should only be used until the thick periosteum on the back of the bone is reached. This can then be divided cautiously with the knife. Of course the ^ This dissection was devised by Sir William Turner.