SIDE OF THE NECK. 219 the cojmnon facial vein, which is formed by the union of the facial vein and the anterior division of the temporo- maxillary vein. The nerves which are brought into view as the carotid triangle is gradually opened up are very numerous, but they can be classified according to the direction which they take through the space. One large nerve, the hypoglossal., takes a more or less transverse course across the upper part of the space. It forms a loop across this part of the neck im- mediately below the lower margin of the digastric muscle. Two descend vertically—viz., the vagus and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The vagus lies in the posterior part of the carotid sheath between the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. The sympathetic cord is embedded in the posterior wall of the carotid sheath. The remaining five nerves traverse the triangle obliquely. Four run from above downwards and forwards, viz., the descendens hypoglossi, the thyro-hyoid, the internal and external laryngeal nerves ; and one—the spinal accessory —is directed from above downwards and backwards. The descendens hypoglossi ^■^rmg's> from the hypoglossal nerve as it hooks round the occipital artery, and descends within the carotid sheath. It is joined at the upper border of the omo-hyoid by one or two branches from the cervical plexus, and in this manner the ansa hypoglossi is formed. The thyro-hyoid is a minute nerve which arises from the hypo- glossal nerve before it disappears under cover of the pos- terior belly of the digastric. The internal laryngeal nerve descends behind the carotid vessels. It will be readily found, with the corresponding artery, in the interval between the hyoid bone and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It enters the larynx by piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane. The external laryngeal nerve., a branch of the preceding, is a much smaller twig. It leaves the space by passing under cover of the depressor muscles of the larynx and hyoid bone. The spinal accessory nerve is placed high up in the interval