THORACIC CAVITY. 15 areolar tissue which holds them together. The pericardium is in this way exposed, and a striking demonstration is obtained of a space which is termed the ajiterior medias- tinu7n. In front this space is bounded by the posterior surface of the body of the sternum, and usually also by the inner ends of the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages of the left side, clothed by the left triangularis sterni muscle; behind., by the pericardium; and upon each side., by the pleura as it passes from the back of the sternum to the front of the pericardium. In its upper part the space can hardly be said to exist, seeing that the pleural sacs are in contact; but below, the left pleura falls somewhat short of the right pleura, and an interval is apparent. The only contents to be noticed in the anterior mediastinum are, in its lower part, a few small lymphatic glands and some loose areolar tissue, in which ramify lymphatic vessels and some minute arterial twigs from the internal mammary artery. Dissection.—Having now ascertained the relations of the pleura to the chest wall, proceed to the study of its connections within the thorax. For this purpose the parietal pleura must be separated from the ribs as far forwards as the cartilages. This can best be done by gently insinu- ating the forefinger between each of the ribs and the pleura, and then running it backwards and forwards. Upon no account detach the pleura from the cartilages. Next divide with the knife the second, third, fourth^ ffth, and jz'x//^ costal arches at the junction of the osseous with the cartilaginous portions, and remove these ribs by snipping through them with the bone pliers as far back as possible. The sternum and cartilages, to which the pleura is still adherent, must be left in position until the arrangement of the membrane has been thoroughly in- vestigated. The greater part of the costal pleura now lies flaccid upon the surface of the lung. Make a vertical incision through it, midway between the spine and sternum, from the level of the second costal arch down as far as the seventh rib. From each extremity of this vertical cut carry an incision forwards for two or three inches. Relations of Pleura.—A considerable piece of the parietal pleura can now be thrown forwards like a door, and the interior of the pleural sac is exposed. The inner