THORACIC CAVITY. 23 be studied, in the meantime, in Figs. 176 and 178; after- wards they will be displayed in the course of dissection. The Middle Mediastinum is the wide middle part of the space which contains the pericardium, and lies below the superior mediastinum. In addition to the pericardium and its contents, the middle mediastinum contains the phrenic nerves and their arterise comites (Figs. 156 and 177). The Anterior Mediastinum is that portion of the inter- pleural space which lies between the pericardium behind and the body of the sternum in front. It has already been examined (p. 14). The Posterior Mediastinum is situated between the peri- cardium and the bodies of the vertebrae. It will be studied later on. Dissection.—The central portion of the sternum, with the attached costal cartilages, may now be removed and laid aside until a suitable opportunity arises for the study of the chondro-sternal joints. Carefully strip the mediastinal pleura from the side of the pericardium. This will bring into view the phrenic Jierve and the slender ai'teria conies nervi phrenici, a branch of the internal mammary artery which accompanies it upon the side of the pericardial sac. During this dissection the minute fuediastinal and thymic hraiiches of the internal mammary artery will be brought into view. The Lungs are two soft, spongy organs placed one on either side of the mediastinal space. When the thorax is opened, they collapse to about one-third of their original bulk, and it is difficult for the student to realise their proper dimensions and shape. With the consent of the dissector of the head and neck, the nozzle of the bellows may be introduced into the cervical part of the trachea so as to inflate the lungs with air. A truer conception of these organs will thus be obtained, and a demonstration will be afforded of their high elasticity, and of their connection with the windpipe. When healthy and sound, the lungs lie free within the cavity of the chest, and are only attached by their roots and by their ligamenta lata. It is rare, however, that a healthy lung is seen in the dissecting room. Adhesions between