519 THE CEREBRUM. and temporal lobes. As a general rule, the upturned end of the second temporal sulcus lies in the course of this line, and may in these cases be considered as a bounding furrow. Mesial Aspect of the Occipital Lobe.—On this surface we find (i) the calcarine fissure; (2) the cuneus; and (3) the gyrus lingualis. The calcarine fissure begins by a bifurcated extremity in the groove for the lateral sinus on the occipital pole. From this it pursues a slightly arched course forwards, and ends by cutting into the limbic lobe immediately below the thickened posterior extremity (splenium) of the corpus callosum. The calcarine fissure is joined by the internal parieto - occipital fissure at a point somewhat nearer its anterior than its posterior extremity. Together the two fissures present a -<-shaped figure. If the calcarine and internal parieto- occipital fissures be fully opened up, so as to expose the bottom in each case, two well-marked deep or submerged gyri will be displayed. One of these, the gyrus cunei, marks off" the parieto- occipital fissure from the calcarine fis- sure ; the other interrupts the calcarine fissure immediately behind its junction with the parieto-occipital. It is called the anterior cuneo-lingual deep gyrus, and it divides the calcarine fissure into an anterior and a posterior part. The anteiior calcarine fissure corresponds very nearly to the stem of the -<-shaped fissural arrangement. It is very deep, and being a complete fissure, it gives rise to an elevation on the inner wall of the posterior horn of the lateral ven- tricle, called the calcar avis or the hip- pocampus minor. The posterior cal- carine fissure is much shallower. The cuneus (Fig. 284) is the wedge-shaped or triangular district on the mesial aspect of the occipital lobe which Fig 287.—Diagram of the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. P.O. Parieto-occipital fissure. c. Gyrus cunei. a.I. Anterior cuneo-lingual gyrus. S. Anterior calcarine fissure. C.C". Posterior calcarine fissure.