OBSEEVATIONS CLINICAL SUEGEEY.V EDINBURGH : PRINTED BY R. AND R. CLARK, KOR EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS. LONDON UAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO. CAMBRIDGE . MACMILLAN AND CO. GLASGOW . . JAMES MAOLEIIOSE. DUBLIN . . . W. ROBERTSON. «OBSEEVATIONS IN CLINICAL SURGEEY BY JAMES SYME, FROSESSOSieF CglNICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. o ^ W M-s ^3 ^^^^ ^ ^^'^ ^ EDINBURGH: EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS. 186LPREFACE. A SFEGICAL case is read with interest by practi- tioners, not merely on account of its individual features, but because it illustrates the effect of treatment, and enables them to determine the value of practical principles for their own guid- ance. But at no period in the history of sm^gery has there been so much occasion for information of this kind as at present, since the profusion of vague and verbose compilations, together with the mass of crude speculation and recldess mis- representation mth which the medical press has of late years teemed, have so bewildered the minds of most men as to render them incapable of discri- minating between the good and evil of what they read. There hence results a painful feeling of un- certainty, with constant straining after novelty as the wheel of fashion revolves, so that sound doc- trines, instead of becoming more firmly establishedVI PREFACE. tlii'ougli time, are apt to be relinquished and replaced by the silly suggestions of presumptuous folly. Having for a long period of years been engaged in teaching Surgery, with the advantage of a great hospital for my field of instruction, I venture to hope that the expression of opinions which I have thus been led to enter- tain, together with the relation of cases shewing their application in practice, may not prove unac- ceptable to the members of my profession. The observations now oflfered refer with few excep- tions to cases that have occurred within the last nine months ; and it is my intention, at no distant date, to publish some further illustrations of the principles which I am accustomed to teach.CONTENTS. —♦— PaOI! Fractube op the Thigh-Bonb .... 1 Disease op the Hip-Joint .... 6 Ununited Fracture op the Humerus . . .13 The Formation of New Bone in Necrosis, and Com- pound Fracture ..... 25 Tumour op the Os Humeri removed without Ampu- tation. ...... 33 Amputation at the Ankle . . . .39 Excision op the Elbow-Joint . . , .51 Eestoration op the Nose . . , .56 Eestoration op the Lower Lip . . . .60 Spassiodic Stricture and Fissure of the Anus . 64 Fistula in Ano . . . . . .71 Internal Hemorrhoids and Prolapsus Ani . . 77 Hemorrhage from the Rectum . . . .81 The Actual Cauterv ..... 87 rEsOPHAGOTOMY . . . . . .91 The Excision of Enlarged Tonsils . . .97Vlll CONTENTS. Pagi: Union by the First Intention . . . .102 Hydrocele . . . . . . .107 Abdominal Hydrocele . . , . .113 Hydrocele and H^ematocele of the Neck . . 116 The USB of Blisters in THE treatment OF Ulcers . 119 Polypus of the Nose . .. . . .127 Axillary Aneurism ... . . . 140 Aneurism of the Common Carotid Artery . . 154 Ligature of the Carotid Artery for an Aneuris- mal Tumour OF THE" Orbit . . .161 Ligature of the Internal Iliac Artery . .165 Gluteal Aneurism . . , , .169 Avulsion of the Entire Scalp . . . .173 Eemedy of Keducible Hernia .... 176 Prolapsus Lingua ...... 180 Lithotomy . . . . . . .192 Eemoval of a Hair Pin from the Bladder . .198 Malignant Tumour of a Tendon . . . 200 Morbid Expansion of the Nose . . 203 The Eemedy of Strictures by External Incision . 206CLINICAL OBSEEYATIONS. FEACTUEE OF THE THIGH-BONE. There are few principles more firmly established, or, as it seems to me, more entirely erroneous, than that extension is essential for the successful treat- ment of a fractured thigh-bone. I long believed and taught this as an incontrovertible truth, but for some time past have been satisfied that it is equally unsound in theory, and opposed to good practice. The "long splint" of Desault, which was contrived on purpose to efiect extension by stretching the perineum and foot of the injm-ed limb between the extremities of a wooden board, has been found so useful in the treatment of this fracture, that most people will probably regard the opinion just expressed with no less surprise BKHAC'TURE OF THE THIGH BONE. 2 llian disapprobation. But if a case of the kind in question, which ultimately terminates favour- ably, is carefully watched dm-ing the process of re- covery, it will be found that the bands employed for effecting extension are never tight, and merely tied with sufficient firmness to keep the appa- ratus in its place. It is when the fractured bone has been improperly set, and the limb is found to be shorter than its fellow, that the surgeon racks his patient by desperately tugging at the ban- dages, and all to no purpose, as the muscles are sure to conquer in this contest. Indeed, when it is recollected that the proper stimulus to muscu- lar contraction is tension, the result of such a conflict will not appear so surj)rising as that any one should so far forget his jjhysiological prin- ciples as to engage in it. Instead of exciting the muscles to contract by subjecting them to exten- sion, the great objects in treating a fracture should be to place them at rest, and by protecting them from all sources of irritation to oppose their contractile action. For this pm-pose the pre- venting of motion is of most consequence, since3 FRACTURE OF THE THIGH BONE. every displacement of the broken surfaces must tend to mitate their muscuLar coverings, and hence the great value of Mr. Pott's improvement in the construction of splints, by making them long enough to extend beyond the joints at both ends of the broken bone. It is upon the same principle that the splint of Desault proves so use- ful, since its influence extends over all the articula- tions of the limb, and by preventing any one of them from mo^dng, keeps the whole in a state of perfect quiet. In treating a fractm^e of the thigh-bone, the first step should be to draw out the limb to its proper length, direction, and shape; and if this cannot be done readily on account of the patient's involuntary resistance, it may be accomplished through the aid of chloroform. Two splints of wood, leather, or pasteboard, the full length of the thigh, from the trochanter major on one side, and the perineum on the other, to below the knee on both sides, are then to be applied and secured by four or five looped bandages, and lastly, the long splint wrapped in a sheet or table-cloth, of which4 FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. enough is left free for covering the limlj, being placed by the patient's side, the loose portion is brought over and fastened to the board, after which, by means of the perineal and ankle bands, together with one round the body, the whole apparatus is rendered secure. My present house-surgeon has had three cases of fractured thigh under his charge during the last three months, and the gentleman who pre- ceded him had thirteen in the com-se of twelve months. They have given me the following table of theii" results :- -5 FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. " Cases of Fractured Thighs treated in the Surgical Cluiical Wards of the Eoyal Infirmary, from September 1859 to March 1861. Case. Xame. Age. Result. Time. 1 A. H. 25 Cured 42 days 2 J. B. 18 Cured 90 „ 3 A. A 9 Cured A C\ 42 „ 4 W. ^¥. 40 Cured 54 „ 5 J. 0. 22 Cured 73 „ 6 J. D. 5 Cured 28 „ 7 P. M'K 45 Cured 52 „ 8 E. E. 2 Ciu'ed 17 „ 9 P. W. 14 Ciu-ed 75 „ 10 A N. 5 Cured 35 „ 11 P. F. 14 Cured 56 „ 12 W. B. 12 Cured 35 „ 13 M. C. 7 Cured 42 „ 14 G. G. 55 Cured 58 „ 15 J. K. 10 Cured 42 „ 16 J. D. 17 Cured 35 „ " All of tlie cases here mentioned were treated without extension. In No. 11 the limbs when compared were found to be precisely of the same length. In No. 2 there was shortening to the extent of one inch, from the complication of an oblique fracture of the leg. In the otlier cases, the6 DISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT. shortening varied from a half to three quarters of an inch, Init in no instance made any possible difference in the gait of the patient. "Joseph Bell, M.D. " Thomas Annandale." DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. It seems sm^prising that with all the nicety of modern nomenclatm'e, there should not have been devised a more distinct appellation for one of the most frequent and serious ailments to which the human body is liable, than disease of the hip- joint. This vagueness of language no doubt pro- ceeds from the uncertainty which still exists as to the nature and origin of the disease in question. Sir B. Brodie supposed that it generally com- menced with ulceration of the cartilages ; but such a view is quite inconsistent with either the symptoms, or the resulting condition in the event of recovery. Instead of suffering the excessive pain caused by motion or pressure, which cha- racterises disease of the cartilages, the patientDISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT. 7 is usually able to stand and walk on the affected limb for weeks or even months after beginning to shew signs of the complaint; and if he recovers from it before the occurrence of suppiu*ation, generally retains no trace of its existence, which could not be the case if the sm-faces of articula- tion had been eroded. It may be added that the disease is most aj)t to commence at a time of life little prone to independent morbid affections of the articular cartilage, while the absence of swelling, and facility of restoration to a sound state, are quite opposed to the idea of synovial degeneration. In these circumstances it appears most probable that the morbid condition is originally an iiTitation of the osseous textm-e, which admits of either returning to health, or going on to alteration of structm-e, with its usual attendant of suppuration, and consequence of anchylosis or caries. Disease of the hip-joint is extremely frequent in Scotland, as in other countries possessing a similar climate, so that there is ample oppor- tunity of observing its progress both in j)ublic and8 DISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT. private ])vsictice. Formerly, cases of this kiiid were regarded with dread, as sources of protracted suffering and subjects of ineffectual treatment, but they are now viewed very differently, since, if properly managed before suppuration has taken place, they may reasonably, or almost with cer- tainty, be expected to afford a favourable result. This great change has proceeded from the disuse of counter-irritations, and the establishment of perfect rest, as the grand means of remedy. It appears from the books published in London and elsewhere, and also from the cases which not unfrequently come under my observation, that this salutary reformation has not yet become general, and hence probably the reason of so many operations performed on the southern side of the Tweed for removing the head of the thigh- bone, which, even if we had the wish to do so, there would be little opportunity of repeating here. The enforcement of rest in order to prove effectual must be complete, since the joint more immediately concerned cannot be kept quietDISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT. 9 unless all the articulations and muscles of the limb are prevented from moving or acting; for moving the toes necessarily moves the ankle; moving the ankle moves the knee; and moving the knee moves the hip; while, even if the last- mentioned joint were so constrained by bandages as not to admit of motion, the action of its muscles would cause such compression of the articulating surfaces as might prevent the object in view from being fully attained. The "long splint"fortunately affords a simple, easy, and effectual means of accomplishing this general quietude, and to it unquestionably is due the good effect of modern practice. It must be long enough to extend from the false ribs to a little beyond the foot, and equal in breadth to the diameter of the limb, being applied as for fracture of the thigh-bone, but without any additional support. In some cases the thigh is so bent upon the body that it cannot be straightened without causing great pain, and using much force, but unless the bone has become dislocated, may always, through the influence of chloroform, be easily10 DISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT, placed ill a proj)er position, and does not shew any tendency to resume its abnormal position after consciousness is regained. The length of time dm'ing which the sj)lint is required varies with the circumstances of the case, but in general does not extend beyond from three to six weeks. The patient's friends are frequently apprehensive of the health suffering from confinement, but are soon satisfied on trial that the effect is quite con- trary. The only medical treatment required is regulation of the bowels and diet—which should be nourishing, but not stimulating—wine being forbidden, and animal food restricted within narrow limits. Cod liver oil, if it can be taken without repugnance, will be useful; but nothing can be more preposterous than the common prac- tice of administering iodine, and mercury in such cases, or on other occasions when a strumous con- stitution is suspected.11 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. CASE I, A. D., aged 6, from Kiiiross, was admitted on the 17th of February 1860. Since the beginning of the year he had been falling off in flesh and strength. He complained of pain in the left hip and knee. The limb being considerably drawn up, and resisting extension, the long splint was ap- plied through the assistance of chloroform, which allowed the limb to be straightened. On the 12th of April the splint was taken off, the Hmb being straight, and the pain gone. On the 16 th the patient was dismissed cured. CASE II. F. C, aged 14, an emaciated unhealthy look- ing lad, was admitted on the 17th of February 1860, suffering so severely from hip disease that his father had to carry him. On the 22d the long splint was applied as usual. On the 23d of March the pain was gone. On the 28th he was dismissed cured.12 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. CASE III. F. G., aged 23, from Carlisle, was admitted on the 6th of November 1860, with the symptoms of hip disease, fr-om which he had suffered for 13 months, and dm'ing the last eight so severely as to be unable for work. The thigh was obsti- nately bent on the pelvis. The patient had had several blisters applied, and been a month in the Carlisle Infirmary. On the 8 th the liml3 was straightened under the influence of chloroform, but not without a considerable degree of force, and then had the splint applied. On the 10th the pain of both hip and knee was almost gone. On the 3d of December the pains were quite gone. On the 12th the splint was taken off. On the 2 2d it was reapplied in consequence of some pain being again felt. On the 10th of January 1861 the splint was finally removed, the patient feeling quite well, and desiring to return home. On the 12th he was dismissed.UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 13 CASE IV. D. C, aged 8, was admitted on the 31st of January 1861, with disease of the hip-joint. On the 2d of February the long splint was applied under chloroform, on account of the limb being- bent. On the 26th the splint was taken off. On the 2d of March he was running about the ward quite well. On the 4th he was dismissed. UNUKLTED FEACTUEE OF THE HUMEEUS. Ununited fracture seems a better. expression for the purpose than artificial or preternatural joint, which is apt to suggest an erroneous idea of the condition denoted by it, since, in such cases, there is no new articular structure, but merely a ligamentous connection, which by its length and flexibility determines the extent of motion. This unfortunate result of a fracture, although it has been attributed to other sources, unquestionably, with hardly any exception, proceeds from the broken surfaces not being maintained in a state14 UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. of sufficient rest dming the process of reparation, and it is hence not surprising that the bone most liable to remain thus imperfect should be the humerus, which is doubly exposed to the exciting cause of disturbance through the frequent errors of using short splints, and allowing the patient too much freedom of locomotion. It is doubtless o\ving to the same circumstance that the restoration of rigidity in this situation has been attended with peculiar difficulty, which, indeed, was considered nearly insuperable until a few years ago, when a plan of treatment was adopted that has proved successful in every case subjected to its influ- ence. With regard to the treatment of ununited fractures in general, I had long been satisfied that the expedients in ordinary use, or at all events usually recommended, such as rubbing the broken ends together, stirring up their connecting me- dium by the introduction of needles, or passing setons through it, if they were ever found to prove successful, did so not from their own direct agency, l>ut from the enforcement of rest con-UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 15 joined with their employment, which wouhl have been equally efficient, although not associ- ated with any other remedial means. By the careful application of proper splints the humerus may be kept sufficiently free from motion for the accomplishment of osseous union under ordinary cii'cmnstances ; but to obtain that absolute immobility which is requisite for effecting con- solidation when delayed beyond the proper period, is attended with no small difficulty. Indeed, the only mode jof attaining this object seems to be the same as that employed in regard to disease of the hip-joint, with a similar view, which produces its effect by completely suspending action in all the articulations of the limb. In this case, how- ever, such simple means as the long splint are not applicable, and the only way of keeping all the joints at rest is to envelop the whole limb, together with the scapular region, in a firm case of starched pastel^oard, extending from the finger points to the back of the shoulder. When the morbid condition is too firmly established for being remedied by the mere en-l(j UNUNITED FliACTUItE OF THE HUMERUS. forcement of immobility, there should Ix; no hesi- tation ill resorting to the only other means really capable of overcoming the difficulty : this is, cut- ting off the broken ends of the bone, together with the ligamentous substance connecting them, so as to obtain two osseous surfaces, which may be placed in proper relation to each other, and then steadily maintained in it by the rigid pasteboard case, which should be prepared previously to the oj)eration, and applied when the wound has ceased to discharge more matter than can be readily removed through an aperture in the covering. The incision should be on the outer side of the arm, and sufficiently free to affi)rd ready access to the bone, which may be divided by a saw or the cutting plyers. Any vessels requiring the ligature are then to be carefidly tied, and the edges of the wound being stitched together, the arm requires merely the ordinary treatment of a compound fracture, by the support of two late- ral splints until it is ready for being placed in the case.UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 17 CASE I. J. H., aged 34, a private of the foot, while discharging some duty in the Eedan, on the 8th of December 1855, after the occupation of Sebastopol, was blown up by a Russian mine, which had escaped detection, and, in addition to some slighter injuries, sustained a fractm'e of the left arm between two and three inches above the elbow. He walked up to his regimental hospital, where splints were applied, and retained for a month, when, there being no signs of union, the ends of the bone were rubbed together, and sup- ported by a starched bandage. He left the Crimea on the 3d of February, and was sent to the hospital at Renkeioi, where a seton was passed through the seat of fracture, and retained for five weeks without any benefit. On the 20th of May he proceeded homewards, and, after a long voyage of nearly two months, arrived at Portsmouth, whence he was transferred to Chatham on the 17th of July. No attempt to restore rigidity was made there, and at the end of two months he was c18 UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. dismissed the service, with a pension of one shil- ling jDer day, in consideration of his disability, which was regarded as equal to the loss of a limb. In the hope that relief might still be afforded, he applied to me on the 22d of January 1857, nearly fourteen months from the date of the injmy ; and finding that the arm was entirely useless through the extreme mobility of the ends of the bone, which overlapped each other to the extent of more than an inch, I resolved to adopt the only procedure that, in my opinion, afforded any reasonable prospect of remedy under sucli circumstances, which was to remove the ends of the bone, and afterwards maintain the most per feet rest, by placing the whole limb under restraint. Proceeding with this view, my fii'st step was to have the arm put in an easy position, with the elbow bent at a right angle, and then covered from beyond the shoulder to the tips of the fingers with pasteboard and starched bandages, so as to form a case, which, when it became dry, effectually prevented the slightest movement inUNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. any of the joints. This case was next cut up on one side from end to end, so as to allow the ai"ni to be taken out of it, and undergo the requi- site operation, which was performed under chloro- form. An incision having been made along the outer edge of the triceps, I exposed the upper end of the bone, and sawed off a portion of it suffi cient for obtaining a complete osseous surface. The lower end, lying anterior to the shaft, could not be subjected to the saw, but was removed, to the extent of more than an inch, by cutting pliers. The arm was then supported by a couple of splints, and the patient lay quietly in bed for a fortnight, when the limb was placed in its paste- board case, in which an aperture had been made over the wound, then nearly healed, and dis- charging a very little matter that soon ceased entirely. The patient, feeling that the slightest motion was impossible, even if he had wished it, was relieved from any further restraint, and no longer remained in Ijed. At the end of a month, or altogether six weeks from the date of the opera- tion, which was perfonned on the 30th of January,20 UNUNITED FRACTUKE OF THE HUMERUS. the limb was cxammed, and fuiuid to he quite straight, with a firm osseous union; so that tint patient was able to leave the hospital, not only with his comfortable pension, but also with a per- fectly useful arm. CASE II. J. R, aged 41, was admitted into the hosiDital on the 22d of January 1855, with an unimited fracture of the humerus of seven weeks' standing. It was seated at the distance of about a third from the lower end of the bone, and had been caused by falling from a scaffold of great height. The patient stated that immediately after the acci- dent, splints of pasteboard were applied from the shoulder to the elbow, but not so as to prevent the motion of this joint. At the end of six weeks it "svas found that union had not taken jilace, and therefore my assistance was required. On the 24th I directed the arm to be put up with rectangular pasteboard sj)lints, extending from behind the shoulder to the tips of the fingers, covered with starched Ijaiidagcs, so as toUN UNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 21 form a case that completely prevented motion in any of the joints. On the 1st March—that is, at the end of five weeks—it was found that osseous union had been established; but to save any risk of its being disturbed, the splints were reapplied for three weeks longer, when the patient left the hospital with a perfectly useful arm. CASE III. J. C, aged 41, was admitted on the 3d August 1858, with an ununited fracture of the humerus of twelve months' standing, about the middle of the bone. He stated that on account of the in - jury he had become a patient in the Newcastle infirmaiy, and remained there, under the ordi- naiy treatment by splints, for eight weeks, when, feeling the bone still movable at the broken ]3art, he applied to several dijfferent surgeons, Avho told liim that the arm would get strong in time; but finding that the expectations thus held out were not verified, he had come to me for assistance. On the 18th the starch and pasteboard case having been prepared by putting it on the arm.UNUNITED FHAL'TURE OF THE HUMERUS. 22 allowing it to remain until dry, and then taking it ojBf, I cut down upon the ends of the hone which overlapped, and allowed of extensive mo- tion. About a quarter of an inch having been removed from each of them, the edges of the wound were brought together and treated as usual. On the 27th the ami was put into the pasteboard case, in which an aperture had been made opposite the wound. On the 20th of Sep- tember, suspecting from the appearance of the sore that it was suffering from some irritation, I searched the cavity and removed two small exfoli- ations. On the 16 th of November osseous union was found to be established, and the patient, who slowly regained his health, which had been much disordered, was at length dismissed in every respect quite well on the 1st of March. I have heard that he afterwards continued to be able for his work, ^^dlich was that of a sawyer. CASE IV. J. M'l)., aged 38, was admitted on the 5th of March 185.9, with an ununited fracture of theUNUNITED FRACTURE OP THE HUMERUS. 23 humerus, of more than five mouths' staudiiio-. He stated that the injury happened in Glasgow, and that he went to the infirmary there, where splints were applied, but that three days after- wards a collection of matter formed, which re- quii-ed the splints to be removed every third day during the following seven weeks, when he was dismissed, and continued to be an out-patient for fifteen weeks longer. Finding no improvement, he then appHed to me. On his admission it appeared that the wound was quite healed, but the bone remained very flexible about its middle. On the 14th the paste- board case having been prepared as usual, I per- formed the operation as in the other case. On the 29th the arm was placed in the case, and on the 16th of August he was dismissed perfectly well. CASE V. A. M., aged 24, was admitted on the 5th of August last on account of an ununited fracture of the humciTis resulting from a railway accident that happcnod three months before tlie time of24 UNUNITED FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. his application. The injury had been treated in the ordinary way without success, and then been subjected to the confinement of a starched ])and- age, which was at first employed simply, and again after rubbing the ends of the bone together, under chloroform. The patient then applied to me, with the arm very flexible at the seat of frac- ture and quite useless. On the 21st I performed the operation, and supported the arm with ordinary wooden splints. Unfortunately the wound took on an unhealthy action, and instead of healing opened out con- siderably, so that the arm could not be placed in its pasteboard case until the 3d of October. Osseous union then commenced, but proceeded very slowly ; and on the 15th of January I found, that though the bone was rigid in one direction, it still admitted of slight flexion in the other. I therefore desh'ed the arm to be taken out of the case, and to have a cushion applied opposite the side to which it was movable, so that a wooden splint being placed over this, the two ends of the bone could be drawn towards it, and thus ren-25 FOEMATION OF NEW" BONE. dered perfectly immovable. On the 20tli of February I found the osseous union at length complete—and the patient was dismissed on the 5th of March. On the 20th of March the patient retm-ned from the coimtry with a renewal of the fracture, from falling over a fence. He had it put ujd again in the pasteboard case, and on the 13th of May, being quite well, was dismissed, with advice to be more careful for the future. I have lately learnt that the arm is now perfectly strong. THE FOEMATION OF NEW BONE IN NECEOSIS, AND COMPOUND FEACTUEE. CASE. W. M., aged 30, glazier, on the 30th of Novem- ber last fell from a window of the Physician's Hall in Queen Street, about thirty feet from the ground, and sustained a compound fracture of the left leg, for which he was carried to the Hospital. The tibia alone had suffered, being broken trans- ver.sely about the middle, l^ut must have receivedFORMATION OF NEW BONE. 26 a severe shock, as its surface became bare to the extent of several inches, and showed that there would be an extensive exfoliation. At the end of six weeks the discharge, which had all along been profuse, appeared so disproportioned to the strength of the patient, who was greatly emaciated, and apparently threatened with the initative fever which precedes sinking—that amputation seemed requisite as a prudential measure, while it was at the same time ascertained that the bone had died throughout its whole thickness, and thus rendered the operation indispensably necessary. For, although the patient might possibly escape the danger of longer delay, it was e^ddent that in the event of his doing so, the limb could not be of any use to him from the deficiency of bone. It was therefore removed. It was long ago ascertained by Sir A. Cooper that in a limb provided with two bones, a loss of substance in one of them—unless its extent be very limited—does not admit of osseous repara- tion ; all that can be done towards it being a sort of conical prolongation of the di^'idcd extremities.FOKMATION OF NEW BONE. 27 with a ligamentous connection, leaving a gap at the part. If, therefore, while the fibula remains entire, a considerable portion of the tibia, including its whole thickness, is removed, the re- sult will be a false joint, ren- dering the leg useless. In the Anatomical Museum of the University" there are pre- served the bones of one that was amputated on this ac- count—after the wound had completely healed—from the patient finding it worse than useless, and the same con- dition results when a larg-e portion of bone dies from in- flammation before the foun- dation of a substitute is sufficiently established, as happened in the case here represented, where I advised amputation at an early period, l)ut was not allowed to perform it28 FORMATION OF NEW BONE. until my prediction of what wcjuld happen lia<l been realized. It may seem sui-prising that in a case of necrosis, such as the case just mentioned, where the exfoliation, though extensive, did not comprehend the entire bone, the reproduction should have been so incomplete, while on other occa- sions of the same disease we find the whole shaft dead, and enclosed in a new osseous shell quite suffi- cient to supply its place. At no distant date it would not have been easy to explain this diversity of result satisfactorily, since the opinions entertained in regard to the reproduction of bone were very unsettled and conflicting. Du- hamel, proceeding on his fanciful idea that there was an analogy between the bark of trees and the periosteum, believed that as the former, by successive layei-s liry.'"FORMATION OF NEW BONE. 2i) ^vas coiiTerted iuto wood, the latter suffered a similar conversion into bone, so as to unite fractures, and to supply the place of exfoliation in cases of necrosis; while Haller, founding his opinion upon the original production of the osseous tissue through the gradual continuation of a vascidar texture, denied that new bone could be formed except by the effusion of organizable matter from the old one. These two explanations, though long and keenly supported by their re- spective advocates, still left room for disputes and diversity of sentiment, w^hicli in my own case was opposed to the periosteal side of the ques- tion, until the truth became manifest to me no less suddenly than unexpectedly. In the month of March 1835, a giii was brought into the hospital, and placed under my care, on account of intense inflammation afiecting the leg and ankle, consequent upon a sprain sus- tained a few weeks previously. Finding the joint in a state of suppuration, and the tibia bare through nearly the whole of its extent, I deemed ampu- tation requisite, and performed it accordingly.30 FORMATION OF NEW BONE. Then, wishing that the gentlemen present should see how completely the bone was dead, I made an incision along the skin, through the openings that had been made for the discharge of matter; and upon introducing my finger, was sur- prised to find the existence of a firm substance in the soft parts, which careful inspection revealed to be an osseous de- posit in the periosteum—not proceeding from the bone, but in detached portions, wliich, if the requisite time had been afforded, would obviously have coalesced, so as to form a shell surrounding the old shaft. Al- though this observation appear- ed to me quite conclusive, and sufl&cient to render any addi- tional proof unnecessary for' establishing the long disputed power of the periosteum to form new bone, IWith this view, I repeated the operation ofFORMATION OF NEW BONE. Sir A. Cooper upon tlio fore leg of a dog, and at the same time performed it upon the other leg, Avith the dilference of preserving the periosteum, which was slit open and held aside, while an equal portion of the bone was removed. At the end of six weeks, instead of the gap presented by the first leg, I found, as here represented, a solid mass of bone. I then detached the periosteum in another dog, without removing the bone, and in- serted a piece of tinfoil under the membrane, in which, at the end of a similar period, I found a thin plate of bone. Since that time, my eyes being opened to the truth, I have met with many confirmations of it in the human subject sufier- ing under various forms of disease; and, in the case which has led to these remarks, there was a circumstance well worthy of notice Avith this view, —as the periosteum lying under the exfoliation had in its substance a thin piece of bone quite unconnected with the old one. New bone may be formed, to a certain extent, ■ by growing out from the surface of the old one, so as to lessen the size of an aperture,—such asTUMOUR OF THE HUMERUS. that made by trephining the skull,—or diminisli the distance between two extremities, where there has been a loss of substance in one of the long bones; but when produced copiously, as in a, case of necrosis where there is complete restora- tion, its formation certainly takes place in the periosteum—any deficiency of which curtails its production to a corresponding amount: and hence the iiTegular apertures observed in a new osseous shell dming the period of its formation, which in the language of necrosis are called " cloacw," and were formerly attributed erroneously to the effect of absorption, induced by the presence of con- fined matter. TUMOUE OF THE OS HUMEEI REMOVED WITHOUT AMPUTATION. Next to the lower jaw and the thigh bone, there is no part of the osseous system so fre- quently the seat of morbid growths as the humerus. They may be either firm and fibrous or soft and cerebriform, but whether of the one D34 TUMOUR OF THE HUMERUS. kind or tlie utliei-, with exception of the simple exostosis, have hitherto been always regarded as irremediable except by amputation. In the ff>l- lowing case I pursued a different course, which, if adopted at an early period of the disease, may ren- der so serious a mutilation less frequentlynecessary. T. G., aged 43, from Alva, was admitted into the Hospital on the 9th of November 1860, suffer- ing from a tumour of the right shoulder. It was situated under the deltoid, being about the size of a hen's egg, divided longitudmally, and having a very firm consistence, hardly distinguishable from that of the bone to which it was iuseparably attached. The patient stated that he had felt jDaia in the bone about six months before, and had not noticed the swelling until a considerable time afterguards, since which it gradually increased in size, with a corresponding aggravation of pain. Unwilling to propose amputation at the shoulder joint for a condition so little formidable in appearance—while there could be no doubt that this severe measure would in coiu:sc of time become requisite, if the disease were allowed toTUMOUR OP THE HUMERUS. 35 advance until it assumed a more serious aspect —I considered the practicability of affording relief in another way, and took for my guide the principle of practice which has been so well established in regard to tumours of the jaw. This is, that nothing more is required for an effectual remedy in all curable cases than removing the morbid growth, so as to divide the bone in a sound part beyond the confines of the disease. The cases of maxillary tumom-s, which when formerly treated by means of gouges and cau- teries, applied directly to the seat of disease, uni- formly proved miserable failures, are now remedied with such facility and certainty as contrast very favourably with the inefficiency of surgery in this department at no very distant date. Having thus reason to expect that removing the upper extremity of the humerus would be sufficient for the purpose in question, and knowing from the results of similar operations for caries that the arm, notwithstanding this shortening of the bone, would not be materially lessened in usefulness, I adopted the following procedure : —TUMOUR OF THE HUMERUS. 36 On the 14 th I made an incision from the cora- coid process downwards to the extent of about four inches, opened the joint, detached the mus- cnhir attachments from the tuberosities of the humerus, protruded the head of the bone througli the wound, and sawed it off below the tumour, which was found to consist of a thick cyst, partly- osseous at the base, and containing small cysts in its substance, resting on a rough and spicular slightly excavated surface. No vessels required to be tied, and the patient suffered hardly any local or constitutional disturbance. He was dis- missed on the 4th of January 1861, and I saw him lately in perfect health, with the wound soundly healed, and an arm perfectly strong and useful from the ell^ow downwards. Wlien the muscles become shortened, they will, I have no doubt, restore command over the shoulder-joint also. As morbid growths of the humerus almost always originate from the head or its immediate vicmity, it seems probable that if the disease could be recognized at an early period of itsTUMOUR OF THE HUMERUS. 37 progress, there would not iinfrequently be an opportunity of afFording effectual relief without resorting to the extreme measure of amputa- tion. Thus, a tumour, the largest it is believed on record, growing from the humerus, which I removed with complete and j)ermanent relief, although weighing nearly foui'teen pounds, left the lower half of the bone perfectly unaltered. It must have commenced in the head, which was expanded into an enonnous mass, of a cup shape, enclosing the glenoid cavity, and neigh- homing part of the scapula, so that in its in- fancy this tumour might certainly have been removed without takinsf off the arm. Indeed, if even a third part of the bone required to be taken away along with the tumour, I should tliink it better to do this than amputate at the joint, since, if the muscles did not shorten sufficiently to restore useful action of the shoulder, the hand and forearm woidd at all events be completely serviceable. Many years ago, a fine healthy- looking boy from Kirkcaldy came under my care, on account of a tumour, the size of a small orange.TUMOUR OF THE HUMERUS. 38 seated, ccjntraiy to custom, about the middle of the humerus. As it was very firm, and obviously of a fibrous or fibro-cartilagmous and non-malig- nant nature, I felt unwilling to amputate the arm, and therefore having exposed the growth by a free incision, and separation of the muscles, I applied the cutting plyers obliquely, first at one side of its base and then at the other, so as to efiect detachment, but not without dividing the whole thickness of the bone, and consequently causing the formation of a false joint, which never- theless did not prevent the patient, who grew up to vigorous manhood, from using his arm, through the assistance of a leather case that was buckled round it. In connection with this subject, I may men- tion the case of a gentleman, who, not long ago, was placed under my care, on accoimt of a fibrous tumour engaging the whole extent of the meta- carpal bone of his thumb. In the hope that it might be of service as an opponent to the fingers, even though deprived of its supporting bone, I cut out tlic tumour l)y disarticulation at both ofAMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 39 its extremities, with the most satisfactory result, not only in regard to appearance, but from the hardly diminished usefulness of the hand. AMPUTATION" AT THE ANKLE. Cai'ies is frequently seated in the articular sm-faces of the joint between the astragalus and OS calcis, where it may seem to be of limited extent, and occasion no formidable symptoms, but never- theless exhibits its characteristic obstinacy, and resists all means of remedy except amputation. A succession of such cases painfully impressing me with the imperfection of sm-gery which afforded no milder means of remedy than removal of the leg, suggested the idea of operating at the ankle, so as to preserve the thick integuments of the heel, and lesson the extent of mutilation. J. W., aged 16, recommended to my care by Mr. Aitchison of Dunbar, and admitted into the hospital on the 5th of September 1842, afforded me an oppoi-tunity of trying this plan. He was suffering from disease of the foot, which, iu consc-40 AM^L'TAT10^' AT THE ANKLE. queiicc of a sprain sustained twelve niontli« be fore, had suppurated and ulcerated, so as to admit a probe into the joint between the os calcis and astragalus. I performed the operation without any difficulty, and as the ankle joint remained sound, did not remove the articulating surface, further than by taking away the malleolar projec- tions of the tibia and fibula. The patient went home on the 2d of December, and did well after- wards, as appears from the foUowdng extract of a letter which Mr. Aitchison sent me fom- years subsequently to the operation : " He tells me he suffers no inconvenience from the stump, or the slightest tenderness. He has become a country tailor, and has often ten or fifteen miles a day to go to his work. He also says that with a few of his young companions he ran ofi' to see the opera- tions of the North British Railway at Penman- sliiel tunnel, and must have walked fully thirty to thirty-five miles." Very soon after this case had succeeded so well, I was requested by Mr. Goodsir, now my respected colleague, to visit his friend Dr. Georg(^AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 41 Wilson, the late Professor of Technology, who was then labouring under a complication of ailments, which threatened to blight the expectations that his talents and industry had led all who were acquainted with him to entertain. I found his natiu-ally feeble frame extremely emaciated and exhausted by pulmonary disease of an alarming character, and also by extensive disease of the left ankle-joint, from which there was a profuse dis- charge of matter, and so much pain as to prevent sleep, except under the influence of opiates. The pulse was quick, and the tongTie dry. In these cu-cumstances, it was obvious that unless relieved from the local disease, he must soon sink under it; while, on the other hand, I could entertain no doubt that amputation of the leg would certainly prove fatal. I therefore proposed to operate at the ankle, and the patient readily assented to this, though fully informed as to the novelty of the proceeding. The operation was accordingly performed as upon the former occasion, but with the difference, that the extremities of the tibia and hbula being Ijotli diseased, were removed by42 AMPUTATION A'J' THE ANKL?:. the saw. Tliu result will bu best explained hy the following statement, dated 9th June 1846 D]-. Wilson to Mr. Syme. Edinburgh, 9th June 1846. Deae Sir—You will remember that I lost my foot in January 1843. The stump healed rapidly, and in six weeks had all closed, except one small aperture, from which a slight watery discharge continued to come till the month of June, when it suddenly ceased, and complete cicatrization occurred. Since that period, I have experienced no pain or uneasy sensation of any kind, in the stump, nor any tenderness, making standing or walking irksome or unpleasant. I have very rarely experienced the feeling of the lost foot being still part of the body and the seat of pain, which is so common a complaint among those who have been deprived of limbs. For the last two years, I am not aware that I have known this sensation at all; if I have, it has made no impression on my memory. 1 can lean the AveightAMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 43 of my body ou the naked stumjD without incon- venience ; and, with a single stocking over it, am in the habit of walking through the house when my boot is not at hand. The artificial foot I wear, within an ordinary half boot, is made of light wood, with a spring across the part corresponding to the roots of the toes. This spring, however, is of no use, as the rigidity of the boot enclosing it prevents its acting. The foot might as well be made of one piece of wood. At the heel it is hollowed into a concavity, corresponding to the shape of the stump, but rising up before and behind into two pro- longations, which, seen in section, would resemble the horns of a crescent. The foot is cased in shamois leather, which is carried up from the borders of the concavity, and cut into the shape of the upper part of a lady's cloth boot. Like it, also, it is laced up the inner side, and has a tongue; the latter is made of thick soft leather, and is of much service in securing the fitting of the foot. There are no straps or buckles, or steel supports of any kind, nor are they needed. From44 AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE, the bulbous form of the stump, and its cii'cum- ference being considerably greater than that uf the leg above it, the lacing of the upper leather completely suffices to hold the artificial foot on. It would be impossible, indeed, to pull it off without loosening the lace or tearino- the leather. The artificial foot, as originally furnished, was thickly padded; but I found the padding so apt to shift, and so liable to become uncomfort- able from saturation with moisture, that I had it all removed. It is much more convenient to pad the stump, by covering it with two or more worsted or shamois leather stockings, which can be changed at pleasure. I use a stick in walk- ing ; but, except on rough causeways or very uneven ground, it is unnecessary, neither is it requisite in ascending or descending stairs. The results of an inflammatory attack of the Imigs make me a bad walker, nor have I ever ascertained how long a pedestrian journey I could achieve ; but I have stood for six hours (not con- secutively) daily, for months together, without45 AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. any inconvenience, and I wear the artificial foot, without intermission, from morning till bed-time. —Very sincerely, George Wilson. The evidence of these cases, and many others that speedily followed them, induced me to re- commend amputation at the ankle with all the earnestness in my power, and notwithstanding the resistance of some obstacles, which even now are not entirely overcome, I have the satisfaction of knowing that this operation has long been esta- blished in the practice of surgery both at home and abroad. The obstacles to which I allude may be divided into objections, and would-be improvements. Of the former, the only one that requires notice is the risk of sloughing to which the flap is alleged to be exposed. That the flap may, and probably will still occasionally slough, is unhappily too true, but that this result is always owing to an error in the mode of performance, I think does not admit of any question. For as the -integument being detached from its subjacent connections, can derive nourishment only from the46 AMPUTATION A'l' 'I'HK ANKLK. anastomosing vessels, it is evident tliat if scored cross ways, instead of being separated ])y cutting parallel to the surface, the flap must los(; its vitality. The surgeon of a large hospital told me, that having heard of amputation at the ankle, he had performed the operation repeatedly, according to the directions of a London Surgical Manual, with the invariable result of sloughing, but that then being advised by a friend to look into my own book, he had altered the procediu-e with constant success. This objection, there- fore, has obviously no place in regard to good surgery. The "improvements" have consisted chiefly of variations in the line of incision, so as to alter the form of the flap, and render it more or less inconvenient for the purpose. It is true that the state of soft parts occasionally requires some de- viation from the usual course, but when it leaves free room for choice, there can be no reasonable doubt as to the simple transverse incision origi- nally recommended being the most convenient. The only other alteration worthy of notice is thatAMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 47 of Professor Pii'ogoff, of St. Petersbiu'gh, who pro- posed to retain the tuberosity of the os calcis by sawing it off before the disarticulation was com - pleted, and thus, so far as possible, depriving the operation of all its advantages—in the first place, by rendering it complicated instead of extremely simple; secondly, by making the stump too long; thirdly, by impairing its constitution; fom-thly, by retaining a portion of the osseous tissue justly Liable to the suspicion of relapse; and fifthly, by not being applicable to all cases requiring ampu- tation at the ankle. On these grounds I have been accustomed to regard the adoption of this modification as a certain sign of lax surgical principle. In performing the ojjeration, the foot being- held at a right angle to the leg, the point of a common straight bistoury should be introduced immediately below the fibula, at the centre of its malleolar projection, and then carried across the integuments of the sole in a straight line to the same level on the opposite side. The operator having next placed the fingers of his left handAMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 48 upon the lieel, and inserted the point of his thumlj into the incision, pushes in the knife with its blade parallel to the bone, and cuts close to the osseous surface, at the same time pressing the flap back- wards until the tuberosity is fairly turned, when, joining the two extremities of the first incision by a transverse one across the instep, he opens the joint, and carrying his knife downwards on each side of the astragalus, divides the lateral ligaments, so as to complete the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is drawn round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to expose them sufficiently for being grasped in the hand and removed by the saw. After the vessels have been tied, and before the edges of the wound are stitched together, an opening should l)c made through the posterior part of the flap, where it is thinnest, to aflford a dependant drain for the matter, as there must always be too much blood retained in the cavity to permit of union by the first intention. The dressings should be of the lightest description. The advantages of this operation are, in the first place, its facility and simplicity, requiring noAMPUTATIONS AT THE ANKLK. 49 tourniquet, and being completed, so far as the disarticulation is concerned, without any liurry, in less than a minute ; secondly, its not impli- cating any large blood-vessels or nerves so as to expose the patient to the risk of suffering from hemorrhage or nervous pains ; thirdly, its protec- tion against the chance of exfoliation by the spongy nature of the bone divided ; and fourthly, its affording a stump so perfect as to give the requisite support without any extraneous assist- ance. No other stump of the lower extremity can l)car pressm'e on its face sufficiently for supporting the body but the one in question, or at least be so used without inconvenience ; and there was a man lately at the hospital, who, after having both of his feet amputated, could not only stand, but walk and run without aid of any kind whatever. CASE I. P. C, aged 33, was admitted into the hos]3ital on the 25th of July 1860, in the follomng state:— He had been treated in the Manchester Infirmary for popliteal aneurism by pressure so decidedly1 •><' AMI'I TATIUNS AT THE ANKLE. applied tliat it had caused ulcer, of uliicli the cicatrix romnined, but without i)roducing tlie effect desired. The femoral artery was tlieii tied with success, in so far as the aneurism was con ccrned, but with the unpleasant sequel, some months afterwards, of mortification in the foot, which was thrown off' with exception of the tistra- galus and os calcis, with their integuments—a large raw surface being jDresented in front where the bone was liare. Although the patient was extremely weak, and the parts concerned might be supposed more than usually disposed to slough, I did not hesitate to perform the opera- tion, with the speedy result of a most excellent stump, and complete restoration of health. CASE II. E. M. aged 7, was admitted on the 28th of November last, labouring under a very large tumour of the os calcis. In this case, which would have rather perplexed the imitators of M. Pirogoft', 1 performed amputation at the ankle M itli perfect success in the ordinary way.EXCISION OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 51 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. It would be useless at joresent to expatiate upon the advantages of cutting out the elbow- joint over amputation of the arm. During a long period I advocated the former operation with hardly any support, and combated all the objec- tions brought against it, which not unfrequently assumed the acrimony of personal feeling. But for many years this procedm^e has been established as the rule of practice, and the only room now left for discussion on the subject is limited to the mode of performance, the degree of motion attainable, and the natm-e of the uniting medium that sup- plies the place of the articulation. An account of fourteen cases in which I had performed the operation was published in the year 1831; and since then, having annually repeated it from four or five to eight or ten times, I have had ample opportunity of making myself fully acquainted with the point just mentioned. The H shaped incision I still regard as most con- venient for the purpose, since it not only affordsEXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 52 free access to the joint, but also allows the trans- verse part of the wound tu heal by the fii-st in- tention, and thus prevent the obstacle to mobility, which would result from the process of granulation followed by cicatrization at this part. In cases of anchylosis, from disease, or fracture with dis- placement of the articulating extremity of the humerus, great difficulty was experienced in i"e- moving the mass of consolidated bone, until I adopted the plan of sawing it through transversely at the prominence of the ulna, and then exposing the two surfaces thus obtained, so as to allow the requisite extent of division. In regard to the degTce of mobility attain able, I am led to believe that there exists a great misapprehension, since the cases which are seen here generally occasion much surprise to those who have been accustumed to the practice else- where. It would hardly be correct to say that both flexion and extension are always complete, but unless these conditions are obtained, we cer- tainly do not regard the result as successful. The extent of bone removed determines the degree53 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW JOINT. of mobility, and also the power of controlling it. For if too little is taken away, there will be more or less complete anchylosis; and if too much, such a relaxation of the muscles as must prevent their efficient action. In order to eradicate all the diseased or carious portions of the bone, it would very seldom be necessary to remove more than the articulating sm-face. But if limited to this extent, the operation would prove a failure in respect to mobility ; while, on the other hand, if the humerus were shortened three or four inches, as in the solitary case of Sir P. Crampton, a very long time would be required for the muscles regaining their motive power. As a general rule, I should say that the section ought to be about the commencement of the condyloid projections of the humerus, and at the base of the coronoid process of the ulna. As to the uniting medium, it might be expected, from analogy with what happens in fractures when there is no osseous union, that the medium of connection between the bones would be of a ligamentous nature, not imitating a joint, l)utJ* EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Simply binding the two surfaces together; and such accordingly is the condition that has been found iji tlie cases which have come under observation. Of these the most remarkable is here represented. It was taken from a man who, after suffering excision of the right elbow-joint in the hosj^ital here, during nine years acted as a guard on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, swing- ing himself off and on the carriao^es, and dischargino- all the active duties of that most energetic em23loy- ment, to the entire satisfaction of his employers. It will be seen that there are several ligaments extending between the bones, and that at their points of attachment there has been a remarkable production of new osseous substance, so as in some measure to supply the place and represent the form of the portion removed. In illustration of what has been said, it wouldEXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 55 be useless to relate any recent cases, since a con- siderable length of time is required before the result can be fully ascertained. But it may be of some service to notice the condition of some former patients who happened to present them- selves dm'ing the cm-rent course, in grateful ex- pression of the benefit they had derived from the operation. CASE I. J. Gr., aged 23, called at the hospital on the 13th of May last, to shew himself. He states that twelve years ago I had cut out his right elbow-joint for disease of the bone. For some years of late he had been the principal steward of a large Atlantic steamboat, and there discharged his multifarious duties so perfectly, that during a voyage to the West Indies and back again, his captain had not discovered his arm to be in any respect different from a sound one, which indeed it was not, with regard to the most complete flexibility, extensibility, rotation, and strength, though of course somewhat shortened.RESTORATION OF THE NOSK. CASE II. W. R, aged 14, called at the hospital on tlie 7th of May last, to shew his right arm, of whicli I had cut out the elbow-joint about a year before, on account of anchylosis, following an injuiy. The limb was perfectly sound and strong, admit- ting of every movement, as if nothing had been done to it. CASE III. E. M., aged 22, had her elbow-joint cut out about two years ago. She is now" the sole servant of an invalid old gentleman, and not only does all the work of his house, l,)ut also acts as nurse in very difficult circum stances. The arm is so perfect, that no defect can be detected in it. EESTOKATION" OF THE NOSE. There certainly is no feature which, by its removal, so comj)letcly disfigm-es the human coun-RESTORATION OF THE NOSE. 57 teiiauce as the nose, and its restoration has accord- ingly long been regarded as an important object of sin-gery. Of the plans proposed for this purpose, the wild scheme of Taliacotius need not be taken into consideration ; and the Indian or frontal method, which is the only other recognized by most surgical writers, has always seemed to me very objectionable, not merely on account of its deforming the forehead, but fi-om its placing upon the face an unseemly appendage having Httle resemblance to a nose by its colour, consis- tence, form, or composition, and from bemg neces- sarily tucked up between the eyes above the proper level of its root. The nose thus con- structed must also have its sensations in corres- pondence with the part from which it was derived, and consequently forms a constant source of an- noyance to the patient, who finds that he has exchanged a negative for a positive evil. Instead of so questionable a substitute, I think a truly artificial one greatly preferable. It may l)e com pDHcd of silver or gutta-percha, and Ijcing secured in its place by spectacles or slips of some adhesive58 RESTORATION OF THE NOSE. tissue, enables tlie patient to go into society with a considerable degree of comfort. About fifteen years ago, it occurred to me tbat surgical relief might be eSected in such a way as to obviate the objections above stated with regard to the operations previously in use, and the method then suggested, when tried in practice, was found to surpass my most san- guine expectations. It consisted in making the flaps of skin from the cheeks, of this form. uniting them in the middle by three or fou sutures, and then fixing the outer edges on each side to the raw surface at a proper distance fromRESTORATION OF THE NOSE. 59 the nasal orifice. The wounds of the cheek admit of being nearly closed by a stitch through the edges of each, and what remains of them is of use by the contraction of the granulating pro- cess depressing the hollow at the side of the nose, and thus increasing its apparent elevation. The cavity should be gently distended with lint, com- presses of the same being applied on each side externally, and supported by the blades of a small pair of forceps, applied so as to embrace the nose longitudinally. A. S., aged 18, recommended to my care by Dr. Johnston of Montrose, was admitted on the 13th of December last, for the restoration of her nose, which had been destroyed by disease in childhood, so completely that it presented no pro- jection when viewed in profile, the bone having sufiered as well as the cartilage. On the 15th I constructed a new nose from the cheek in the way that has been de- scribed. On the 31st of January she Avas dis - missed, with the result here represented, from a60 RESTORATION OF THE LOWER LIP. pliotograpliic likeness. Since her return liomc, Dr. Johnston tells me that the new featnre lias become still more natural in its appearance. EESTORATION OF THE LO^^^ER LIP. Although absence of the nose may occasion ;i more unseemly disfigurement, it would appear that removal of the lower lip gives rise to greater and more complicated inconvenience, by impedingRESTORATION OF THE LOWER LIP. Gl urticiilatioii aucl mastication, hy allowing tlie saliva to dribble incessantly, by withdrawing support from the teeth, which are consequently pressed outwards by the tongue, and by exposing them to cold, which causes painful sensations of the most distressing kind. To obviate these effects the patient is obliged to wear a comjDress and bandage, which must cause discomfort in other respects. It might, therefore, be expected that the sm-gical means of remedying this defect would have long ago been perfected, but even so lately as the last edition of Mr. Liston's " Prac- tical Sm-gery," it will be found that the plan then in use was to twist round a triangular flap of skin from under the chin, so as to present the hair to the mouth, and entii'cly disfigure the patient, unless the distorted integument sloughed, which it was much more apt to do, than exist in such unfavourable circumstances. Soon after devising the process for restoration of the nose, I thought of applying the same prin ciple to supplying deficiency of the entire lower lip, and since then in iiumerous cases have met62 llESTORATION OF THE LOWER LI I'. with the most satisfactory results. Indeed it would be difficult to mention any surgical opera- tion that affords a greater amount of relief at a smaller expense of suffering. Nevertheless, and although the operating theatre of Edinburgh has year after year borne witness to the advantages of this procedure, the compilers of systems have treated it with cold indifference, either maintain- ing silence in regard to the proposal, or men- tioning it with such faint praise as must tend to deter from rather than encourage to its adop- tion. The principle of this operation is to leave the central or prominent part of the chin undisturbed, and to form two lateral flaps, which being de- tached from their subjacent connections, and raised to a proper level, supply the defect, while the whole extent of incision admits of healing by the first intention, so that the patient has sometimes been able to shew himself within a week after having the lip restored. In performing the opera- tion, two incisions should be made from the centre of the gap in a straight direction outwards andRESTORATION OF THE LOWER LIP. 63 downwards iu this form A to the extent of rather more than an inch, and from each of the lower ends the knife is cm'ved outwards and upwards in a curved line sufficiently far to complete the flaps of this shape which are then raised so that the t^^o straight portions formed in the first instance meet together in the middle line, where they are united by sutm^es, which also maintain all the other cut edges in contact, while the pro- minence of the chin, retaining its natural connec- tions, serves as a support for the new lip. E. B., aged 62, recommended to my care by Dr. Anderson of Selkirk, was admitted on the 9 th of November last, on accoimt of an epithelial cancer, including the whole of the lower lip. On the 21st, I removed the whole of the dis- ease by two incisions from the angles of the mouth, to the prominence of the chin, and from this point cut on each side, at first downwards and outward in a straight line, and then in a curved direction outwards and upwards, so as to free the flaps, which were detached, raised, and united in their proper position l)y silver sutures;64 SPASMODIC STRUCTURE OF THE ANUS. the whole extent, of mcisioii healed by the fir-st intention, and the patient was dismissed on tlie 7th of December. Since his retm-n home, Dr. Anderson has kindly sent me the photogi-aphic likeness, which is here represented. SPASMODIC STEICTUEE AND FISSURE OF THE ANUS. The expressions "muscular contraction and ulcer of the anus," would more con-ectly denote65 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE AOTS. tlie conditions to which tlie titles above mentioned have been applied, since the tightness is not variable or fitful, and yields to a mode of treat- ment that proves ineffectual when employed for the spasmodic affections of other parts, while under fissiu-e cannot well be included a form of the disease, by no means rare, in which the sore is seated entirely within the spliincter. M. Boyer, to whom we are indebted for the first systematic account of both the derangements in question, described them as almost always existing together, the contraction being seldom, and the ulceration never found alone. He therefore concluded that the former was probably the primary, and, at all events, the dominating disease, and felt confirmed in this opinion, by observing that whenever the con- traction was removed, the ulcer healed. His treat- ment, consequently, was dii'ected to the muscle, and consisted in freely dividing it by a free incision throughout the whole of its extent. This was a formidable procedure, and required in general six weeks or two months for recovery, but nevertlie- less, from proving effectual, nppeared fully war F66 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE ANUS. ranted by the severity of the iDiitient's suffering, and thus became the established rule of practice. At an early period of my own experience, I ascertained that a complete division of the sphincter was not requisite for the purj)ose, and found that it was hardly necessary to extend the incision beyond the mucous membrane of the bowel, or a few of the tense muscular fibres adjoining the base of the ulcer. The best way of accomplishing this, is to introduce the finger, so as to feel the fissm-e, or internal ulcer distinctly, and then applying the point of a small straight or curved bistoury at tlie margin of the anus, to push the knife upwards, with its edge directed inward, until it passes through the whole extent of the disease, and converts the sore into an incision. The cut thus made is veiy small, and requires no dressing beyond the intro- duction of a piece of lint, which may be allowed to remain until the bowel is evacuated. If there is much contraction along with the fissure, or if it exists independently of this complication, the same procedure should be adopted, with the difi"erence of introducing the point of the knifeSPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE ANUS. 67 beyond the ring of constricted fibres, felt by the finger, that has been placed in the rectum. For this purpose, it is never necessary to commence the in- cision farther than an inch from the anus, so that in no case need it exceed a very limited extent, or such as to require any subsequent treatment in the way of dressing. The credit of this improvement, although, so far as I know, not claimed by any other person, has been erroneously attributed to various sources of long posterior date to the time when I first taught and practised it. The following letter from Dr. Duncan, late Senior Ordinary Sm-geon of the Eoyal Infirmary, who attended my clinical lectures in 1832, will, I trust, afi'ord conclusive evidence of the priority in question. 12 Heriot Row, June 11, 1861. My dear Mr. Syme.^—At your request I put in writing what I stated to you as to your teach- ing on fissure of the anus when I was your pupil at Minto House Hospital. You then taught that it was unnecessary to68 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE ANUS. divide the whole sphincter, that the incision sliould be very limited, and that in fact all that was necessary was to convert the fissure into a simple incision. I have notes on the subject, although I cannot at present lay my hands on them, but my recollection of the matter is clear.—Yours, &c. James Duncan. The following case of a much-respected mem- ber of the profession will shew that my practice con- tinued to be the same at a later date, though still long before the period at which this mode of pro- cedure has been supposed to have originated :— Dr. A. of A. to Mr. Syme. Although it is now uj)wards of twenty years since you operated upon me for fissm-e of the anus (if the trifling incision you made can be called an operation), I have a distinct recollection of the circumstances of my case. I had been ill for many months before putting myself into your hands. During most of that time I had suffered intensely, so much so that I69 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE ANUS. became unfit for anytliing. I could not attend to my work, for I could neither thinli nor sleep. It was particularly unpleasant for me to be in society, on account of my extreme unrest. I was con- stantly fidgeting about, and sitting with one hip on my chair. That was the posture that afibrded me most relief during the day; and, at night, my only chance to sleep was afforded by separating the nates forcibly with my hands, as if trying to keep the anus open—the sphincter being aU the time forcibly contracted, so that scarcely a vestige of the anus could be seen. I remember one thing particularly which I have not seen stated by \\Titers on fissure, namely, that the pain always appeared to me to be higher up in the rectum than the seat of the fissure, which you found just within the anus. My suffering at stool, too, was greater than that generally described. Although I can bear pain as well as most people, the per- spiration used to biu-st out upon me when at stool. The pain at that time was pure lancinating pain, which soon became, as it were, mixed with intense itching, in which state it continued for hom's after70 SPASMODIC STRICTUEE OF THE ANUS. every evacuation of the bowels ; and if after that my suffering abated a little, it was only a little, for I was always miserable. You at once detected the cause of my misery, and cured it as if by magic. Of course, I could not see what you did, but, so far as I can recollect, you said that you only divided a little bit of the mucous membrane and the subjacent cellular tissue in the line of the fissm-e, so as to convert the fissm'e into a simple incision. Little or no pain attended the small operation. Indeed, the sensation caused by the knife was comparatively pleasant. You then introduced a small piece of lint into the wound, and advised me to endeavom- to refrain from going to stool for two days, and after that to take a dose of castor oil. The ciu'c was instantaneous and complete. I never felt the pain again. The castor oil, which I took accord- ing to order, operated fi-eely, after I had enjoyed two nights of sound sleep, to which I had long Ijeen a stranger. I returned home about the third day after the operation: and, although I had to cross the Frith of Forth in a gale of wind, and thenFISTULA IN ANO. 71 to travel fifty miles, I felt no inconvenience, but was able to return to my work immediately on my arrival. D- ^^ FISTULA IN ANO. The surgical history of fistula in ano is both curious and instructive. In old times, when the characteristic obstinacy of this disease was attri- buted to some peculiar condition of the morbid surface, it seemed requisite to destroy or remove the lining membrane throughout its whole extent by caustics or excision. Even now there is reason to believe that this severe treatment has not yet been universally abandoned, since, at no distant date, the scooping out of a fistula might still be witnessed in the metropolitan hospitals of a neigh- bouring country, and there was very recently under my care a gentleman who came from Swe- den to obtain relief from a complaint of the kind in question, which, he told me, had resisted twenty applications of the chloride of zinc. In this country a better system was long ago introduced through the clear and forcible exposition of Mr.^2 FISTULA IN ANO. Pott, who cxphiiiied, that the clifticulty of licaliiig proceeded not from any peculiarity of vital action in the texture, but from the mechanical obstacle presented by the thin septum that lay between the fistula and bowel, of which the simple division was sufficient to insm'e recovery. The princij)le of treatment thus established, though greatly superior to the old practice, was far from being perfect, since it requii-ed that the septum should be divided throughout the whole of its extent, which could not be done without con- siderable pain and trouble, the risk of haemorrhage, and a tedious recovery,^—Avith careful cbessing of the wound to prevent its edges from adhering prematurely. But in 1820, M. Ribes made known a most important observation, which led to a gi-eat improvement of practice. This was, that the internal aperture of a fistula, instead of being variable in its position, as had been supposed, is always situated within an inch, or very little more, from the anus, and that division of the septum merely to this extent may be regarded as an effectual remedy. It must be admitted, that along witl) these va]ual)leFISTULA IN ANO. contributious to pathology and practice, M. Eibes conveyed two very serious errors—by maintain- ing that the internal opening was always present, and that it was formed, in. the first instance, by ulceration of the mucous membrane, so as to pro- duce an abscess, by allowing the escape of intes- tinal matters into the celluar textm'e. That both of these positions are untenable, may be proved beyond the possibility of question, by examining the cavity of an abscess which gives rise to fistula soon after it has opened externally spontaneously, or been evacuated by incision. It will then be found, by iaserting a finger into the rectum and a probe into the sinus, that the mucous membrane, though to more or less extent denuded and ex- tremely thin, is at that period always quite entire. Haviag had my attention directed to the ob- servations of M. Ribes soon after their publica- tion, and ascertained the accuracy of his statements in regard to the position of the internal orifice, and the efficacy of a limited incision, I was sur- prised to find his views so inconsistent in other rcsj)ectH witli iriattci's of fact admitting of such74 FISTULA IN ANO. Ccasy recognition ; but could not doubt, that with the exception of some rare cases in which the abscess opened primarily into the bowel, the aperture in the mucous membrane was always of secondary formation, tlu'ough ulceration taking- place subsequently to evacuation. It may be added that the natm^e of the matter contained in the abscess, which is usually small in quantity, and simply purulent, cannot be reconciled with the idea of M. Eibes, or the similar view more lately expressed by Sir B. Brodie (1844), that the first step is ulceration allowing the escape of intestinal contents; since the result of such an occurrence would certainly be a great accumu- lation of fetid matters, gaseous as well as liquid, and totally different from what is found when the abscess is opened. But any such argu- ment is quite unnecessary in the treatment of a question admitting so easily of positive demon- stration. From three to six weeks may be considered the usual length of time required for the establish- ment of an internal apertiu'e, although a longerFISTULA IN ANO. 75 period occasionally elapses before its production, especially when the abscess lias been opened by a free incision, as the confinement of discharge, that probably gives rise to absorption of the septum, will then, of course, be more slowly induced. From this observation, the practical inference follows, that in operating upon a patient who has no internal opening, it is merely necessary to divide the septum up to that thin portion of the mucous membrane where the aperture would be if there were one. In performing the operation a considerable difiiculty is frequently experiehced in detecting the internal orifice, from its not lying in the same line with the external one. I think the best plan is to bend the probe, after being passed through the opening into the bowel, and bring its point out at the anus, when the single stroke of a sharp knife is sufficient for its extrication. A piece of lint is then placed in the wound, and allowed to remain two days ; after which no precaution or treatment of any sort is required beyond ascertain ing once or twice, by passing a finger or the probeFISTULA IN ANO. into the wound, that it is liealing by contraction and not adhesion. Although the operation, when thus performed, may be regarded as the perfection of simplicity and efficiency, it does not seem to aflford any security from the foolish proposals of would-be- improvers, as will ajDpear from the following ex- ample :—Not long ago a gentleman came to me from one of the largest towns in England for the remedy of a fistula in ano, on account of which he had suffered much pain and useless confine- ment, through the representations of a practitioner who described the operation as too dreadful for human endurance, and held forth the injection of iodine as an effectual substitute for it. This fistula, being of the slightest and simplest kind, was remedied by an incision so trivial that the patient was not aware of its performance, and could with difficulty be made to believe that the process was completed ; wdiile instead of the protracted stay in Edinburgh, to which he and his wife had made up their minds, he returned home at the end of four days, so well satisfied w hh hisINTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. 77 expedition tliat lie soon afterwards recommended to my care a friend similarly afflicted. INTEENAL HEMOEEHOIDS AKD PEOLAPSUS ANI. So lately as thirty years ago the treatment of internal hemorrhoids was feeble and uncertain, few practitioners venturing to interfere with them, and never doing so but under a painful feeling of anxiety. Sir A. Cooper, in his lectm^es, relates various cases of death from hemorrhage caused by excision of the tumours, and speaks of tying them as hardly less free fr'om danger ; so that, with the fear of bleeding on the one hand, and of inflam- mation on the other, both the scissors and the ligature were equally dreaded. My attention having been directed tO the subject, while it was in this unsatisfactory state, I found that the bad efiFects which had been attributed to the ligature proceeded from the faulty mode of its application, and was more especially due to the erroneous practice of neither including the whole of the78 INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. morbid growtlis, nor tying them so tightly as to insulate them from all communication with the liv- ing tissue. Both of these errors originated from the desire of lessening pain and protecting the patient from the effects of excessive irritation, but were in truth com23letely opposed to the objects in view. For the tumours allowed to remain were apt to inflame, while the portions of them that had been merely strangled necessarily did so, in conse- quence of the obstructed circulation. The appli- cation of a ligature, says Sir A. Cooper, "is exceedingly painful if it be drawn tightly and so said Sir Charles Bell, with other sm-geons of eminence. To the directly oj)posite conclusion I was led by observing the very different effects of partial and complete strangulation on the same patient, and therefore adopted the principle of so far as possible including every part of the hemorrhoidal enlargement in the ligatm-es, and drawing them with the utmost practicable degree of tightness. The process is thus rendered either entii-ely free from pain, or attended by such a slight degree of it as easily admits of being coun-79 INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. teracted by small opiates. I have repeatedly had under my care patients who, having been imper- fectly relieved by the old-fashioned mode of liga- tiu:e were with great difficulty induced to submit again to what their former experience led them to suppose would be extremely painful; but who were agreeably disappointed on finding that it could be so conducted as not to occasion any suffering worthy of mention. When the facility, efficiency, and safety of this method are considered, it seems surprising that any other means of treatment should still be entertained. Yet there can be no doubt that many practitioners are in the dangerous condition of hesitating between the use of caustics and excision, both of which are apt to prove fatal by inducing inflammation of the mucous membrane or veins. When internal hemorrhoids are protruded from the anus, not only during evacuation of the bowels, but through ordinary exertions in the erect posture, they generally receive the appellation of " Prolapsus ani," and being attributed to imper-80 INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. fection of the sphincter, are supposed to admit of only the palliation afforded by mechanical sup- port. With the possession of such a perfect means of remedy as that afforded by the ligature, it is melancholy to reflect on the amount of misery thus so unnecessarily endured, as may be illus- trated by the following case:—A most respectable and well-known member of the medical profession in this city asked me to see a lady suffering from Prolapsus ani. Upon doing so I found merely some internal hemorrhoidal tumours, and removed them by ligatures with complete relief. The doctor, very much astonished at this result, told me that he had laboured under the same com- plaint for twenty years, and during the whole of this period endured the intolerable nuisance of a bandage as the only means of enabling him to undergo the fatigues of an active life. No time was lost in removing his infirmity, and although several years have elajDsed since tliis was done, I am happy to say he still enjoys the most perfect health. That a man of intelligence, who has Aviitten much for the medical instruction of others,HEMOKRHAGE FROM THE RECTUM. 81 should have made such a mistake, shews how strong is the tendency to it; but the best measure of its frequency may be gathered from the adver- tisements of mechanical support for the relief of prolapsus, which may be seen in every newspaper and every medical print. It is thus rendered evident that there must be an extensive demand for these machines, of which it may be said with certainty that at least 99 in the 100 are employed under an entire misapprehension of the case ; and in the belief that the complaint is incurable, while, on the contraiy, it admits of easy, safe, and effec- tual remedy. HEMOEEHAGE FEOM THE EECTUM. Internal hemorrhoids are so generally the source of bleeding from the rectum, that hardly any others appear to have been noticed by Avriters on the subject. But having frequently met with the most profuse and obstinate hemorrhage, when there was not the slightest trace of internal piles, I think it is very important that attention should82 HEMORRHAGE FROM THE RECTUM. be directed to the morbid states of a different kind, which may give rise to this occurrence. Of these, the one most frequently concerned is that of external hemorrhoids. That pendulous flaps of skin hanging round the anus should give rise to a serious flow of blood, seems in the highest degree improbable, and might indeed be deemed altogether incredible, were it not proved beyond the possibility of question, by well ascertained facts. It is now more than thirty years since I became aware that external piles, independently of any other morbid condition, might be the cause of bleeding, through the observation of a case in which, although the patient had been rendered almost exsanguine, the most careful examination failed to detect any other derangement, and comj^lete relief was afibrded by its removal. Since then, both in public and private practice, I have had very many opportunities of observing similar facts, and of these may select the two following as sufficiently illustrative for the purpose :—83 HEMORRHAGE FROM THE RECTUM. Ml'. Craig of Ratho to Mr. Syme. My Dear Sir—The operation performed on Mr. D. in July 1845 was most successful. He was then 47 years of age, and looked quite anae- mic, ha^dng for many weeks lost a large quantity of blood at stool; the amount had daily increased, but the most carefid examination of the anus and rectum revealed nothing more than a quantity of loose skin external to the orifice. When he sat upon the stool in our presence, pure blood to the amount of several ounces was speedily discharged, and formed a cake of coagulum in the utensil. You merely removed the whole of the loose skin by scissors, saying that you had reason to believe this would prove sufficient, and the result was a complete and permanent cure, as the patient never passed any more blood, and is still in good health.—Yours, &c. James Craig. Ratho, 1861.HEMORRHAGE FROM THE RECrrUM. 84 Dr. Paterson to Mr. Syme. My dear Mr. Syme—The Rev. Mr. laboured under large and exhausting discharges of blood from the rectum, which had been going on for years. As there were some external hemorrhoids, you considered that these were most likely the cause of the hemorrhage. They were accordingly removed, since when there has been no bleeding whatever ; and nearly six months have now elapsed since the operation.—Yours, etc. RoBT. Paterson. J^ith, 31s< May 1861. How the presence of external j^iles causes bleeding from the bowel, or how their removal prevents it, I am quite unable to explain; but do not, on this account, regard these facts as of less importance in practice. If their occurrence were extremely rare, they would be of less consequence, but happening so frequently, as I have had occa- sion to see, their recognition is obviously a matter of no small practical importance.85 HEMORRHAGE FROM THE RECTUM. Another source of liemorrhage from the rec- tum, which could not have been readily suspected or anticipated, is spasmodic strictm-e of the anus. The fissures and ulcers which are so fre- quently connected with this condition usually dis- charge a little blood, although hardly in such quantity as to constitute a prominent feature of the case; but, independently of any such compli- cation, a mere contracted state of the sphincter may occasion the most profuse and serious bleed- ing. As an instance of this effect, I may mention a very remarkable case that was presented to me, not long ago, by a medical student of great talent and diligence. He complained of bleeding at stool, but, on examination, was found so perfectly free from hemorrhoidal disease, that I supposed he must labour under a delusion. Some time after- wards, remarking that he had become extremely pale and emaciated, I was led to make further inquiiy, and then learned fr-om a companion who resided in the same house with him, that there really was a copious discharge of blood, which issued ill a fluid state, and then coagulated. On86 HEMOKllHAGE FROM THE RECTUM. making another examination, I found that the external part of the sphincter was tightly con- tracted, and knowing that this might be the cause of bleeding, made a division of the tight muscular fibres. No blood was subsequently discharged, and the patient soon regained his healthy aspect. There is still another source of hemorrhage from the rectum, of which I have met with only one example. The patient was a young lady whom I saw along with the late Dr. Graham, the professor of botany. She had lost so much blood as to excite attention by her altered appearance, and was brought from the country in quest of relief. I could not detect any hemorrhoidal disease, or any other recognised derangement ; but observed, that when expulsive efforts were made, the blood issued from a small round orifice, apparently seated in a varicose vein. To this point I npplied n ligature, with the effect of affording complete relief.THE ACTUAL CAUTERY. 87 THE ACTUAL CAUTEEY. The extraordinary, and apparently almost maoical effect, which, in certain forms of arti- cular disease, is produced by the actual cautery, renders it one of the most valuable cm-ative means employed in the practice of siKgery, Yet little more than thirty years have elapsed since this powerful agent was first employed in Great Britain for the purpose of counter-irritation, I was then induced to adopt it by the recommendation of the late Professor Eust of Berlin, in his work on " Ar- throkakologie," and have since taken every oppor- tunity of inculcating the advantage derived from its employment. For many years these efforts produced little effect, and the proposal was even not seldom scouted, as no less shocking to huma- nity than degrading to the profession. In illus- tration of the feeling at that time entertained on the subject, I may mention a circumstance which was lately recalled to my recollection by an old 7>upil, now occupying a distinguished position in88 THE ACTUAL CAUTERY. tlie military service of her Majesty. A young man from the country, hibouring under that un usual form of disease in the hip-joint which is amenable to the cautery, had had it applied Avitli great relief to his sufferings; but after going home, in consequence of feeling some return of the symp- toms, desii-ed a repetition of the remedy, and applied for it in vain to all the neighbouring prac- titioners, who replied to his request with an indig- nant refusal. At length, driven to despair, he resorted to the remarkable expedient of sitting down upon a red-hot poker. Through the gradual influence of time, and the incontrovertible evidence of experience, this prejudice at length gave way, and allowed the cautery to get into fashion, which proved still more dangerous to its character ; for, being em- ployed without due discrimination of cases, and too frequently with a reckless disregard of propriety in the mode of application, it was found to afford more disappointment than satisfaction, so that at present the ideas entertained on the subject are veiy uncertain and conflicting. It is tliercforeTHE ACTUAL CAUTERY. 89 desii-ablo, that the morbid condition which is really suitable for the treatment in question should be distinctly understood. Ulceration of the cartilages is a title that may be objectionable on the score of pathological accu- racy, but at all events, has the recommendation of having been long established and recognized as denoting a condition of articular disease charac - terized by very distinct features. These are—in- tense pain, aggravated by pressm^e or motion, and most severe dm-ing the night, not confined to the joint affected, and being generally also referred to the one beyond it, or a more distant part of the limb, which is weakened in its muscular power, disposed to oedematous eflPusion, and altered in its sensations, being usually hotter or colder than natui'al, and occasionally feeling as if benumbed. These symp toms may exist for weeks or months with little alteration except in regard to their degree of seve- rity ; but if the derangement from which they proceed be allowed to pursue its course without interruption, are almost sure, sooner or later, to ter- minate in anchylosis or siippm-ation, with cariesTHE ACTUAL CAUTEKY. of the bones affected. It is in this case that the actual cautery, if properly applied before supjjura- tion has taken -place, may be regarded as very nearly, if not absolutely, a certain remedy. It is not always easy to ascertain whether or no the patient still admits of relief, as the swel- ling, though seldom diffused, and in general limited to the immediate vicinity of the joint, usually possesses that soft semifluctuating condition which is apt to simulate the presence of a fluid. But wherever a careful examination leaves any room for doubt, it will of course be prudent to run the risk of erring on the safe side, and use the means that promise to be effectual, imless they have been too long delayed. The cautery should be heated to the utmost degree producible by a common fire, and be in size not less than a pigeon's egg, in order to retain its temperature sufliciently. In cases of emergency I have not scrupled to use an Italian iron supplied by the laundress, or even a common poker. The eschar may in general be about two inches in length, and should be made on each of the two sides whore the articulation is nearest theCESOPHAGOTOMY. 91 siuface. The pain is much less than might be anticipated, and may be readily prevented through means of chloroform, which, for this purpose, need not be employed so as to produce its fuU effect, since the early stage of unconsciousness will pro- tect the patient from any unpleasant recollections of the procedm'e. A poultice should be aj)plied imtil suppm'ation is established, and then some imctuous application, unless it is desired to check or stop the discharge, when the water dressing- may be substituted. CESOPHAGOTOMY. CASE I. M. C, aged 45, was admitted into the hos pital on the 22d of July 1861. She stated that six days before the time of her application, while eating mutton broth, she had suddenly felt inability to swallow, together with severe pain, from which she concluded that a piece of bone had stuck in her throat. Under this impression(ESOPHAGOTOMY. 92 she had apphed for assistance, and been treated by the introduction of probangs or otlier instini- ments, without success, so that her distress re- mained unrelieved, and became complicated with fits of dyspnoea, which repeatedly threatened to prove fatal. On examination I found her in the state described, with a very anxious expression of countenance, and slight general fidness of the neck, which was not discoloured or otherwise altered, but felt somewhat tender under pressure. Having introduced the long curved forceps, without being able to touch the foreign body, but feeling satisfied, from the circumstances just mentioned, that there was one present; and fearing, that if allowed to remain, it would cause suj^pm-ation, if indeed it had not already done so, I considered it necessary to adopt the only effectual mode of affording relief, by performing the operation of oesoj)hagotomy. With this view, having administered chloro- form, I made an incision as if for ligature of the carotid artery, exposed the edges of the sterno- mastoid and sterno thyroid muscles, ;ind then93 (ESOPHAGOTOMY. opened the deep fascia of the neck, from under which a small quantity of purulent matter escaped. Inti-oducing my finger through the narrow passage thus detected, I carried it upwards and backwards to the posterior part of the gullet, where a piece of bone was felt protruding from the canal. The re- quisite dilatation having been made, I guided in a pair of pol}^us forceps, and extracted a piece of mutton bone, extremely thin, but nearly an inch square. The operation was performed on a Thursday, and on Friday the patient seemed to be doing well; but on Sunday I was told that she had be- come delirious on Saturday, and appeared to be sinking. Upon visiting her I found the hands blue and perfectly cold, with the faintest possible thrill instead of a pulse, so that the case had cer- tainly a most hopeless aspect. It occurred to me, however, that the symptoms might possibly pro- ceed from hunger, as the patient, during a whole week, had not been able to swallow at all, and since the bone was removed had done so very im - perfectly, from the milk and other fluids given toCESOPHAOOTOMY. her escaping in gi-eat part by tlie wound ; I there- fore, by means of a catheter, introduced from the mouth into the oesophagus, immediately in- jected some beef tea, with wine. In the course of half an hour there was, in all respects, a decided improvement, which, through a continued employ- ment of the same means, repeated regularly at proper intervals, gradually increased until recovery was completed at the end of a fortnight. CASE II. J. M'G., aged 26, from Aberfeldy, was ad- mitted into the hospital on the 28th of August 1855. He stated that on the 12th of the same month, while eating rabbit soup, he felt a piece of bone stick in his throat, and since then had been unable to swallow anything that was not fluid. The surgeon who was called to see him had ad- ministered an emetic, searched the pharynx, and passed a whalebone probang without affording any relief Since then he had not been able to lie down, and had little sleep ; his voice Avas Inisky95 (ESOPHAGOTOMY. and his breathing difficult; pulse 100, and the neck somewhat swelled. Next day I dissected tln-ough the integuments and muscles, opened a deep-seated abscess, and extracted a portion of the rabbit's rib about an inch in length. The patient was immediately- relieved from the severity of his sufferings, but remained in a state of considerable disorder for several days, though able to swallow fluids, of which a part escaped by the wound. At the end of a week he was convalescent, and before the close of another quite well. Cutting through the coats of a sound oeso- phagus for the removal of some foreign body lying within it is an operation that can hardly ever be required, since, before it is warranted, there will almost necessarily have elapsed such a period of time as must allow ulceration and suppuration to be induced by the intruder, com- pressed as it cannot fail to he hy the sm-rounding muscular fibres. Any hard substance so situated therefore should be regarded with much apprehen-tESOPHAOOTOMY. sioii, since, especially if ui-ged in a wi'ong diniction by the use of probangs, it must expose the patient to extreme danger, not merely from the effusion of matter behind the larynx, but from ulceration ex- tending to the air passages or blood vessels. It is therefore of great consequence to prevent the risk of such consequences by timely removal of the foreign body when it is ascertained to be present. The instruments in common use for this pur- pose, which are the probang and curved forceps, with blades opening in a vertical direction, may be regarded as worse than useless, since the foreign body, if arrested by its form, will not yield to the former instrument, while simple inspection of the latter will shew that expansion of the blades must prevent the possibility of their seizing any thing- whatever. Instead of these dangerous and use- less implements, every practitioner should be pro- vided with long curved forceps, having blades opening laterally. By their means he may safely apply pressure to any substances that admit of being pushed downwards, and will also be able to effect extraction if the case pemits this. DuringTHE EXCISION OF ENLARGED TONSILS. 97 my residence in Loudon I Avas asked By two medical gentlemen to see a shopkeeper in St. ^Martin's Lane who was in great distress from having swallowed an artificial tooth with its gold fastening, which had been arrested at the orifice of the oesophagus. I succeeded in removing it by the forceps with immediate and complete relief. Upon another occasion the late Dr. Malcolm of Perth requested me to visit a lady resident in the neighbourhood of that city, whose gullet was ob- structed by a piece of food, and I used the same instrument, with the efiect of affording instant relief, by pushing the soft substance downwards by my effort to extract it. THE EXCISION OF ENLARGED TONSILS. The excision, or, more correctly, the curtail raent of enlarged tonsils, affords the instructive lesson of an operation perfected in the first in- .stance, and subsequently impaired through altera- tions in the mode of its perfomance, proposed by98 THE EXCISION OF ENLARGED TONSILS. would-be improvers. All other means having failed to remove the swelling, it is the duty of the surgeon, says Celsus,—" hamulo excipere et seal pello excidere." But, instead of following this simple and clear instruction, it appears that, until the latter part of last century, practitioners of surgery either abstained from interference with the disease, or attempted to subdue it by objec- tionable methods. Thus, we find Heister con- triving complicated instruments for the pui-pose ; Wiseman confessing that he had done much mis- chief by the use of caustics and cauteries; and Sharpe still more unfortunate tlu-ough means of the ligature. It is just a hundred years since M. Caquet of Rheims shewed, by ample experience, that the more closely the directions of Celsus were followed the better it would be for the patient; while his colleague, M. Museux, taking the same view, in- vented, for this particular purpose, the forceps which still bear his name, having each of their blades terminating in a double hook. With this instrument, or a simple hook and curved bistoury,THE EXCISION OF ENLAEGED TONSILS. 99 M. Caqiiet operated so frequently and successfully as to establish the operation in such confidence as might have been expected to prove general and lasting. In this country, however, it does not appear to have been recognized at all; and, so lately as 1812, we find Mr. Chevalier, in the Med. Chirurg. Transactions of London, describing a plan for facilitating the employment of ligatm^es as the only practicable means for the removal of redun- dant tonsils. While house-surgeon of the Royal Infirmary, I had under my charge a young woman who had been admitted on another account, but also suf- fered fi-om an enlarged tonsil. Being anxious to relieve her, and seeing strong objections to both cauteries and ligatm-es, I resolved to cut away the tumour, which was done ^\^.th perfect facility and success. Supposing that this was a novel proce- dure, I felt not a little surprised, on goiag to Paris soon afterwards, to find that the late M. Lisfranc taught excision of the tonsils as a regular part of his operative surgical course, and precisely as M. Caquet had performed it. On my return I gave100 THE EXCISION OF ENLARGED TONSILS. the forceps of Miiseux to Mr. Liston, and he imme- diately began to operate upon all the cases requir- ing this treatment that came in his way, whicli were neither few nor rare, since the disease is very frequent in Scotland, especially the districts of Perthshire and Stirlingshii-c. The operation thus became established in Edinburgh, whence it must have been carried across the Tweed by many of the Englishmen who pursued their studies here, but does not appear to have found much favour in London until, at a comparatively recent period, it all at once came into fashion as a remedy for deafness, of which it is occasionally, but very sel- dom, the cause. Since the operation thus became generally adopted, it appears that the simple and efficient means originally employed for its performance have been supplanted by others in every respect inferior, such as scissors and guillotines. Of these, the former are very objectionable on account of their inability to execute the section with cer- tainty at one stroke, while it is difficult, or almost impossible to obtain an opportunity for a second.THE EXCISION OF ENLAEGED TONSILS. 101 from tlie blood trickling into the pharynx and causing the patient to congii. But the latter in- stnmient is still more to be deprecated, since, besides being so difficult to manage in such a nar- row inaccessible space, as to render its perform- ance in most cases little better than a sham or pretence, it is also dangerous, for instead of di-awing the tonsil inwards, and away from the carotid artery, so as to make its excision perfectly safe, as is done by the hook or forceps, it presses the gland outwards and closer to the vessel. It is therefore with no surprise that I have heard of a fatal hemorrhage from this source. Fearing that, through the influence of these faulty means, a most useful operation may again fall into discredit, I beg to enter my protest against any deviation from the old rule of " hamulo exci- pere et scalpello excidere." The best knife for this purpose is a probe-pointed curved bistoury, which, being applied with its convex or blunt edge up- wards, and urged with a sawing motion of its blade downwards, easily and safely accomplishes the object in view.UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 102 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. In the year 1826 I published a paper on the treatment of incised wounds, with the view of shewing that the method then employed in their treatment was much opposed to primary union. At that time the practice was to close the wound immediately after its infliction by straps of adhe- sive plaster, then to apply a pledget of ointment, and lastly to envelop the part concerned with a long bandage, which was not undone until the fourth day, in order that what was called the ad- hesive inflammation might subside before the first dressing. The imperfections of such a process will appear at once, when the steps by which the adhesion of cut surfaces is accomplished are taken into account. John Hunter erroneously supposed that blood became organized so as to constitute the bond of union; while in more recent times Mr. Paget has fallen into a mistake no less serious b}' denying that there is any \niiting medium at all required.UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 103 The truth is, that after the bleeding has ceased, a discharge of serum and lymph or organisable matter takes place from the cut surfaces, which are then glued together, if sufficiently approxi- mated, and retained in contact. This process, instead of requiring to be preceded by inflamma- tion, is certainly subverted by it, so that heat, redness, and pain, may be regarded as evidence that adhesion will not be the result. But the old system of dressing by complete closure of the wound immediately after its infliction, prevented the discharge of both blood and serum, and thus allowed these fluids to accumulate so as to distend the cavity, and separate its sui^faces beyond the limits of adhesion, whence inflammation was ne- cessarily excited as the precursor of suppm^ation and granulation. From what has been said, it must be obvious that the bleeding vessels of wounds which are de- sired to heal by the first intention, should be care- fully secured, not merely for the prevention of injurious licmorrhage, but also to oppose the accumulation of Ijlood in the cavity. The liga-104 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. tures employed for this piu-pose ufiurd the farther advantage of establishing a commimication be tween the bottom and mouth of the wound, so as thus to provide a cbain for the discharge of both sanguineous and serous efiusion. It has been alleged on theoretical grounds that the thi-eads employed for this purpose must cause nritation and otherwise impede the adhesive process; but any such apprehension is shewn to be groundless l^y the results of daily experience; and it cannot be denied that the obstacle so afforded is of infinitely less consequence than the presence of blood or other fluid, which has the effect of sepa rating the raw surfaces. " Torsion" and less effi- cient means, such as thrusting needles through the textures, may be employed to close the bleeding vessels, but cannot prevent the oozing that still continues in a wound of any considerable size, so that while the orifice heals, the cavity is almost sure to become an abscess. But notwithstanding the protection against deep-seated accumulation of blood which is de- rived from the ligatures, the old plan of closingUNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 105 the wound immediately after its infliction was almost sm.'e to defeat the object in view; and accordingly, within my recollection, it was no un- common remark of students that during the whole period of their hospital attendance, they had never witnessed an instance of union by the first intention, except in wounds of the lip or cheek, where, there being both an external and an internal orifice, the edges of the former could be ke^t in contact without causing any retention of blood between the surfaces required to adhere. When- ever the wound possesses this condition, as wJien it opens into the mouth, the abdomen, a joint, the Ijladder, the vagina, or the rectum, the edges may be retained in accurate contact. But when, as more generally happens, there is only one orifice leading to a cavity in the subcutaneous tex- ture, means must be employed to prevent the retention of blood or serum. At one time I thought that the best way of doing this was to keep the wound open for several hours before adjusting its edges; and I still believe that the object in view would be thus most certainlyU)() UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. accomplished, if tlic process could be performed without a renewal of the bleeding. On the whole, however, I feel satisfied that a better method of proceeding is to employ sutures at moderate inter- vals, to place some permeable material on the orifice, and to aj)ply pressure over the cavity. For the two last-mentioned purposes there is nothing better than a sponge of adequate size, and for the first one the silver vnre introduced into practice with so much advantage by Dr. Sims of New York, is greatly preferable to the silk threads previously employed. This improvement— for which, together with the great boon of Mtheri- zation or anaesthetic respiration, we are indebted to our transatlantic brethren—^has rendered the ope- ration for vesico-vaginal fistula and similar de- rangements practicable, with a prospect of success that afibrds an agreeable contrast to the former hopelessness of such undertakings.HYDROCELE. ]07 HYDEOCELE. CASE I.—SIMPLE HYDROCELE. A. C, aged 61, was admitted into the hospital on account of a large hydrocele in the right tunica vaginalis, of two years' standing. It was imme- diately evacuated, and injected with tiacture of iodine (sjj. Ed. Pharm.), which was allowed to remaia, after being diffused over the whole surface by a rough shake of the scrotum. On the third day the subsequent swelling was at its height, on the fourth day it was diminishing. On the 7th day the patient was dismissed cured. This case is selected, not from being of an ex- ceptional character, but because it affords an example of the result which usually, or, as I should rather say, invariably attends the operation em- ployed. In former times candidates for gradua- tion at this University used frequently to choose liydrocele as the subject of a thesis, from the variety of opinions entertained in regard to its treatment, and the different proccdui'cs cmj)loycd108 HYDROCELE. for this piiri3ose affbrcliug convenient materials for discussion. Thus, it was said that jDort wine, when injected, was apt to fail, and also to produce very serious consequences if it happened to entur the cellular texture of the scrotum—the opera- tions of incision and excision were bloody and painful—the seton was no less tedious than irk- some—and so on. But since the use of iodine has been introduced, the theses on hydrocele have gra- dually become fewer, mitil they entirely disap- peared ; whence I concluded, that the advantages of this means were so manifest, that they had led to the abandonment of all the others, and left no room for discussion. I was therefore accustomed to quote this unanimity of practice as an illustra- tion of what might happen, if through time and careful observation all surgical derangements should come to be treated in accordance mth the principles which judgment and experience had decided to be best for each. But the hopelessness of any such aspu-ations for the perfectability of surgery has been lately well shewn l)y a strenuous attempt to substitute for the treatment by injec-109 HYDROCELE. tion with iodine, the old and justly abandoned procedure of seton, which it was proposed should consist of silver wire instead of the silk threads formerly employed. It is difficult to imagine that such an absiu^dity could be adopted by any surgeon of ordinary intelligence, and yet if the medical journals can be regarded as affording indications of professional opinion, it might for some time have appeared that a real improvement had been introduced, instead of a proposal implying the most lamentable lack of practical principle. The injection of iodine, in order to be effec- tual, must be performed with attention to the fol- lowing circumstances. In the first place, the patient should stand w^hile the sac is tapped, in order to let the water be drained off completely. Then sjj of the Edinburgh tincture of iodine, which is much stronger than that of the London Pharmacopoeia, should be injected, unless the tumom- is either very large or very small, when there may be a corresponding increase or diminu tion of the quantity employed. And lastly, a rough sliake of the scrotum should diffuse theHYDROCELE. 110 injected fluid over the whole surface of the cavity. The pain which ensues is generally slight and transient, hardly requiring any confinement; and at the end of two or three days, the swelling having attained its height, begins to subside, so that it sj)eedily disappears. Unless the points which have been mentioned be duly observed, the procedure may prove abor- tive, without justly forfeiting confidence, as will appear from the following case :—Not long ago a gentleman applied to me on account of a hydro- cele, which he said had been injected more than once with port wine unsuccessfully. I told him very positively that iodine would prove efiectual, and soon afterwards received a letter from liis residence in London, advising me to express my- self with less confidence, as his sm-geon, without any better success, had injected a compound mix- ture of iodine and other matters, which, after being retained a few minutes, was allowed to escajDe. I replied, that under the circumstances stated, I was not surprised at the failure. Then there came another letter from the patient, desir-HYDROCELE OR SPERMATOCELE. Ill ing to know the particulars which I deemed essen- tial for success. I sent the directions above given, and before long was informed that the operation performed in accordance with them had proved completely successful. It may be remarked, that this operation is applicable to all the forms of hydrocele, whether it be the ordinary one of water in the tunica vaginalis, or a collection of fluid in the spermatic cord, or that peculiar condition named Spermato- cele, which has been commonly regarded as not amenable to injection. CASE II. HYDROCELE AJSTD SPERMATOCELE. J. D., aged 49, was admitted on the 27th of May 1861. Ten years ago he had had a hydro- cele on the left side tapped and injected, but not effectually, as within the last two years fluid had again accumulated at the same part. Three years ago I had tapped and injected a hydrocele of the right side, which remained free from disease. On more particular examination of the leftn-2 TRIPLE SPERMATOCELE. side it appeared that there were two swellings, one being a distension of the tunica vaginalis, and the other a round circumscribed tumour attached to the uj^per part of the testicle. The latter was readily recognised as a spermatocele, and found to be so when tapped; but was injected with iodine at the same time as the other, and with equal success, so that the patient was dis- missed cured on the 10th of June. CASE III. TRIPLE SPERMATOCELE. T. N., aged 53, from Leadhills, recommended by Dr. Martin, was admitted on the 10th of April 1861, with a great enlargement of the scrotum, which on examination was found to depend uj^on three distinctly difterent collections of fluid, two being seated on the left and one on the right side. The patient stated that the swelling on the left side was about two years' standing, and had slowly increased without giving him much trouble, ex- cept by its bulk, while the other had commenced about a year ago, and enlarged more rn])i(lly. ItABDOMINAL HYDROCELE. 113 had been tapped about five weeks before the date of admission, but not injected. Not anticipating anything unusual, I pro- ceeded to operate upon this case, and on tapping- one of the collections was surprised to find that its contents presented the peculiar colourless- pellucid fluid indicative of the spermatozoa, which were accordingly detected in abundance by the microscope. Still more to my surjDrise, the other two swellings were found to possess the same constitution. All the tliree were in- jected at the same time, and with such success, that the patient went home on the 24th. ABDOMINAL HYDEOCELE. On the 3d of June last, a child between four and five years of age, the son of a farmer in Ber- wickshire, was brought to me from the country, a distance of about fifty miles, labouring under what seemed to be an incarcerated, if not strangulated, inguinal hernia. It appeared that a rupturcv bandage had been worn between two and threeABDOMINAL HYDROCELE. 114 years, but that the scrotal swelling suddenly en- larged, with great distension of the al^domen, so as to present a very alarming appearance ; although, with the exception of some tendency to constipa- tion, there were no corresponding symptoms of any consequence. At my clinical lecture I introduced this child, with the intention of dividing the tendinous ring at the lower end of the inguinal canal, in order to prevent the risk of injurious pressure; but, after chloroform had been administered, and the muscles were relaxed, I remarked that the abdominal swel- ling, though very large and tense, like a uterus at the full period of gestation, extending high above the umbilicus and to a proportionate extent on each side of the cavity, still left a narrow space, in which the intestines seemed to possess their natu- ral laxity. Upon this ground, coupled with the absence of symptoms denoting strangulation, I at once formed and expressed the opinion, that the case was not hernia but hydrocele. Lest this ^dew, however, should not be correct, instead of punctm'ing the scrotal swelling by115 ABDOMINAL HYDROCELE. means of a trocar, I made a small incision through various layers of thickened texture, which shewed that the fluid was contained, not in the tunica vaginalis, but in an expansion of the cord; and evacuated a large quantity of serous effusion. Then, inti-oducing my finger, I found that the state of matters was what had been suspected, although the abdominal part of the swelling re- mained unchanged. I accounted for this by attri- buting it to the efiect of pressure by the bandage, and proposed after a while to puncture through the parietes of the abdomen. But, in the course of t^v^o or three days, the fluid began to drain away from the scrotal apertiu:e, at first clear, and then slightly turbid with lymph—the child at the same time being slightly feverish—while the tumour gradually diminished. On the 24th of June he returned home, where, as I have learnt from his meflical attendant, he was soon running about quite well.116 HYDROCELE OF THE NECK. HYDROCELE AND HEMATOCELE OF THE NECK. Collections of serous and also of dark coffee- coloured fluid are not unfrequently met with in the neck and neighbouring parts of the chest, where they have received the same designations as those given to accumulations of a similar kind in the tunica vaginalis. Such tumom^s are some- times connected with the thyroid gland, but may exist quite independently of it, and require the same treatment as the morbid conditions fi-om which they have received their respective titles. The iodine injection may be regarded as certainly efiectual when the fluid is serous, and even when it has the bloody character this means should be tried before having recom'se to the more severe measure of incision. In this case it may be neces- sary, however, to repeat the injection, in order to complete obliteration of the cavity.HYDROCELE OF THE NECK. 117 CASE I. A. M'E., nine years of age, was admitted on the 7th of November 1860, on accomit of a tu- mour, about the size of a small hen's egg, lying over the posterior edge of the sterno-maatoid muscle. It was very tense, but distinctly fluctu- ating;, and was said to have been noticed soon after birth, since which time it had gradually increased—of late more rapidly—and also become painful. Next day I introduced a trocar and drew off somewhat less than two ounces of dark- coloured fluid like that of a hsematocele, and in- jected two drachms of the tincture of iodine. Four days later, as a portion of the tumour had not been evacuated on the former occasion, I again introduced the trocar and drew off some straw- coloured fluid similar to that of an ordinary hydrocele, and then repeated the injection. On the 18th the patient was dismissed, and on the 29 th he returned to shew that he was quite well. It thus appears that there was a double cyst,118 HYDROCELE OF THE NECK. presenting the curious combination of luematocele and hydrocele. CASE II, G. v., eleven years of age, from St. Andrews, recommended by Dr. Adamson, was admitted on the 16th of April 1861, for the remedy of a tumour the size of an orange, at the lower part of his neck on the right side. It had first attracted notice when he was about a year old, and re- mained so small as to excite little apprehen- sion, until three years ago, when it began to enlarge, and has continued to increase ever since. The skin was not discoloured or adherent, and the swelling was so lax that it seemed to vanish under pressure, whence some of the medical men who had examined it supposed that the contents communicated with the vascular system. For my own part I felt persuaded that the tumom- was merely a cyst, and punctured it accordingly, with the effect of discharging a, dark l^loody-looking fluid, which did not deter me from proceeding with119 USE OF BLISTERS LN ULCEKS. the iujectioii. This was followed by a considerable dimiuution, but not complete obliteration of the cavity, and therefore was repeated on the 9th of May. On the 1st of June the patient was dis- missed cured. THE USE OF BLISTERS IN THE TREATMENT OF ULCERS. In order to understand the proper treatment of an ulcer, it is necessary to know the process by which it is healed, and also the obstacles by which this result is apt to be opposed. Any one who, in conformity with common language, talks of a sore being " filled up," or supposes that the granulations are formed in successive layers, to supply losses of substance, is plainly not in a condition to entertain sound ideas on these sub- jects, and should lose no time in reading the essays of Fabre and Louis, in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery. He will there find it explained that the appearance of fiUing up is a deception similar to that which makes ])odiesUSE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. T20 at rest appear to be moving when surveyed by those who are not conscious of theii- own motion —and that when the surface of a sore comes to be on a level with the surrounding skin, it is from the latter descending, not from the former ascend- ing. So long ago as when house-sm-geon of the Royal Infirmary, I ascertained these facts for my- self by the dissection of gxanidating sores after death ; and I was afterwards glad to find the truth fully established in the witings to which reference has just been made. Since then I have constantly endeavoured to inculcate the correct explanation of granulating action; and it is there- fore with no less surprise than regret that I see systematic works compiled for the use of students still maintaining the old views in regard to the growth of granulations. The granulating action produces merely a thin pellicle or temporary skin, under which, instead of effusion or the formation of new substance, there is earned on a process of absorption that draws the smTounding textures together, and thus, in proportion to theii- laxity, lessens the size of theUSE OF BLISTERS IN ULUERS. 121 resulting cicatrix. Instead, therefore, of using ap- plications with a view to promote the formation of new tissues, or what the old surgeons called " cai-nifying" means, it is evident that the aim of remedial treatment should be directed towards the encom-agement of contraction, and the re- moval, so far as possible, of whatever obstacles may stand in its way. One of the best illustrations for this purpose is afforded by the callous or indolent ulcers to which the inferior extremities of the labom^ing classes are so peculiarly liable. There is here the appearance of a deep excavation, with firm round edges, in consequence of the subcutaneous cellular texture being greatly thickened and indurated LQto a brawny consistence, through the effect of loner continued irritation. So long as this con- dition exists, no application can induce the heal- ing process, while simply restoring the limb to its natural size renders any other means of treatment unnecessary. It was formerly supposed that the best way of accomplishing this object consisted in effecting pressure by the employment of plasters122 USE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. and bandages; but, more tlian thirty years ago, I shewed that a much easier, and also more efficient mode of procedm'e, was to apply a large blister over the thickened part of the leg, as it speedily dispersed the swelling, and thus allowed the gra- nulating action to proceed without any farther interference, until cicatrization was completed. The saving of expense and trouble obtained by this mode of treatment might have been expected to insm-e its ready and general adoption; but, with the exception of gentlemen educated in Edin- burgh, I believe there are still few members of the profession even aware of its proposal. Indeed, the systematic books either entirely ignore it, or mention some feeble objection that shews the want of any practical experience. Some of them advise the blister to be no larger than the sore, and others express a great dread of erysipelas— of which, in the whole course of my practice, I never met with a single case so produced. CASE I. T. N., aged 51, quarryman, was admitted on123 USE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. the 1st of March 1861, on account of two ulcers of the leg which had existed eleven years. One was the size of the palm of the hand, the other smaller. The surface of both was much depressed, the edges being round and hard, and the limb much swelled. On the 5th a blister was applied over the whole thickened part of the leg. On the 11th the sm-face of the sore was nearly on a level with the surrounding skin. On the 28th the ulcer was abnost entirely healed. On the 12th of April the patient was dismissed cured. Another obstacle to the healing of ulcers is the existence of some peculiar action which pre- vents the restorative process from producing its proper effect. There can be no better example of this than that afforded by persons whose constitu- tions have been injured by the use of mercury, and who so frequently sujQFer from sores, either superficial and confined to the integuments, or deep-seated and affecting the periosteum or bones. In both cases the constitution concerned is dis- tinguished by characters which a practised eye124 USE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. readily recognizes, and proves very obstinate under ordinary treatment. It was formerly supposed, that very severe measm'es were requisite for the counteraction of this morbid state; and I can recollect when the wards of an hospital resounded with the shrieks of patients having caustic potass applied to their sores, while glowing chauffers, bristling with red- hot irons, were carried into the operating theatre for cauterizing ulcerated shin bones. But many years have elapsed since the efficiency of milder means has been established through the use of iodine and blisters. Small doses of the iodide of potassium, such as two grains given three times a day in simple solution, seem productive of all the benefit to he derived from the former of these sources, while larger doses are not free from the suspicion of doing harm. I have said the solu- tion should be simple—that is, in water merely— because it has long been my firm conviction, that the sarsaparilla so generally administered npon such occasions is utterly inert and useless. In private practice its emi:)loymcnt may not be ob-125 USE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. jectioiiable, if the patient can afford to pay for it, but hospitals should be protected from a useless expense, which in some of them annually exceeds many hundred pounds, and exerts the misleading influence that necessarily results from combining inefficient with efficient means in the treatment of disease. In regard to the blisters, it may be re- marked, that when employed for the case imder consideration, being required to act merely on the ulcerated surface, they should not extend be- yond it. That this most simple and powerful mode of treatment has not yet been generally adopted would appear from cases frequently coming to my knowledge, such as the two following, which have lately done so. In one of these the patient was Adjutant of a cavalry regiment in India, who came home for the express purpose • of suffering a com- plete or partial amputation of the foot. I found it enormously swelled and deformed, with aper- tures that allowed the probe to pass, not only down to the bone, but into its substance. Under the treatment just explained, all the morbid126 USE OF BLISTERS IN ULCERS. characters quickly disappeared, and the patient has gone back to resume service. The other case was that of the principal engineer in one of the Peninsular and Oriental Company's steam ships, who suffered from a most formidable enlargement at the upper part of his leg, apparently involving the knee joint, and allowing a probe to pass through several openings deep into the substance of the tibia. In the Mauritius and elsewhere the patient had been assured that amputation through the thigh would be requisite for his relief, and he ex- pressed his perfect readiness to permit whatever seemed to me necessary. Under the same simple treatment he progressively improved; and is now in perfect health, making arrangements for resu- mina: his situation. CASE II. C. H., aged 25, seaman, from Dundee, was admitted into the hospital on the 27tli of March, with a large ulcer over the olecranon, exposing diseased bone to the extent of more than a half crown in surface, and apparently of considerablf127 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. thickness. He was extremely weak and emaciated, in consequence of having been dosed with mercmy about eighteen months before on a voyage to India. Repeated blisters were applied, together with gT. ii. of lod. Potas., taken three times a-day in simple solution. Under this treatment the patient c[uickly improved ; some dead portions of bone separated, and he was dismissed cured on the 22d of May. POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. There are few subjects of sm'gical practice which have been so much misunderstood and im- properly treated as those named simple or mucous, malignant, and fibrous polypus of the nose. In discriminating these very different morbid condi- tions, it is necessary to recoUect, that the first men- tioned is merely an expansion of the lining mem- brane, where it covers the superior spongy bone, never growing from the septum, floor, or external side of the cavity ; generally existing gi'cgariously in both of the nostrils; i\nd not possessing suchPOLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 128 force of increase as to produce either absorption or displacement of the osseous walls surrounding it. That the second is a morbid growth, proceed- ing from the bones of the face, or base of the skull, occupying either one or both nostrils, and having no limit to its enlargement, which may not only expand the cavity, but displace the eyeballs and alter the features. Lastly, that the third is attached to the surface of the bone by a single root, generally near the margin of the posterior nostril, whence it is apt to descend into the pharjmx, so as to con stitute a tumour that may be seen or felt behind the soft palate, and, more rarely, makes its way into the maxillary antrum, or through the bones of the face, so as to project under the cheek. In regard to the treatment, it is obvious that the malignant polypus should be considered as beyond the reach of interference, since, not admit- ting of extirpation from the situation of its roots, it must render any operation not only useless but injurious, by giving an impulse to the morbid disposition. The simple or mucous polypus used to be con-POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 129 sidered a hardly more favourable subject of treat- ment, from its tendency to relapse after extraction, in consequence of tlie operation being improperly perfonned. To understand this, it is only neces- sary to look at the insti-uments fol-merly employed for the pmpose. They were forceps of a large size, so fashioned, with, windows in their blades, as to seize the body of the polypus, and nibble it away at successive " sittings," as they were called; or still worse, crooked knives, scissors, and loops of wire, which could not possibly accomplish the object in view effectually. Instead of these faulty means, slightly curved forceps, of the smallest size consis- tent with adequate strength, should be gently insinuated along the base, or by the side of the superior spongy bone, with the blades expanded so far as the cavity permits, until, when closed, they are found to embrace the root of the growth ; then, by a steady combination of twisting in one direction and pulling, the portion of substance comprehended between the blades is detached from its connection, when the polypus either follows or is so loosened that it falls into the pharynx, if K130 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. not Ijlown til rough the nostril. By i-c.peating this procedure, if necessary, the nose is thorouglily cleared, and unless there should be some unusually strong tendency to reproduction, the patient will experience no farther trouble. CASE I. W. H., 84 years of age, was admitted on the 13th of March 1861, having both of his nostrils completely obstructed by what seemed to be the simple mucous polypus. Next day I cleared the cavity completely, and on the 19 th the patient was dismissed, greatly pleased with his unproved condition. CASE II. T. L., 5 years of age, applied at the hos- pital on the 2d of May 1861, with both of tlie nostrils completely obstructed by the simple mu- cous polypus. By employing the forceps in the way that has been described, the ca^dty was im- mediately cleared. The distinctive characters of the Fibrous poly-POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 131 pus were first pointed out by Dupuytren, who sup- posed that it was the early stage of a malignant or fungating tumom-. But this opinion was cer- tainly erroneous, since there is no transition, or any other connecting circumstance ever observed, between the two sorts of gTO^A^h in question. The fibrous pol}q3us is distinguished by the fii-mness of its textm-e, which frequently almost approaches that of ligament, and by its disposition to bleed, which either appears spontaneously, or is induced by attempts to effect extraction. It may be added, that there is also not unfrequently a constant dis charge of watery fluid, and that respiration is usually obstructed completely in both nostrils, although the gro^i;h is confined to one of them. Having had occasion to operate upon many remarkable cases of this kind, I feel warranted to state, that Dupuytren's plan of fixing a succession of hooked forceps into the body of the tumom- is not the best way of effecting extraction, since it re- ({uires an enormous amount of force, as was shewn in one of his two recorded cases, which I had an o))portimity of witnessing, where the surgeon and132 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. two strong assistants liacl to unite all their strengtli for the accomplishment of evulsion. Instead of this procedure, I have found it much better to use the ordinary forceps employed for the removal of simple or mucous polypus, assisting their action by the fore and middle fingers of the left hand, introduced behind the soft palate, and aiming at the point of attachment, which seldom exceeds a small extent. In this way, by a few determined efforts, I have generally been able very speedily to overcome the difficulty. The bleeding, which is profuse, and to an unpractised eye very alarming, generally ceases immediately after the tumom' has been removed; but, if it shoidd continue, may be easily arrested by plugging the posterior nostiils. CASE I. T. N., 15 years of age, from Dumfries, was ad- mitted on the 7tli of March 1861. It was stated, that about two years before this time he had begun to suffer, almost daily, a profuse bleeding from the nose, and also experienced difficulty of breathing, especially through the left nostril. Various reme-POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 133 dies having been tried without any good effect, a polypus was at length detected, but not considered remediable. More lately, an attempt had been made to extract it without success, and the symp- toms becoming more aggravated, the patient was sent to me. On examination I found a fibrous growth completely blocking up the nostril, and projecting backwards into the pharynx—the boy, from long continued hemorrhage, being extremely emaciated and quite anaemic. I therefore lost no time in performing the operation as it has been described, by making the fore and middle finger of the left hand, placed behind the soft palate, co-operate with the small forceps introduced through the nostril. In this way the tumour was easily removed, though not without considerable bleeding, which, however, was the last sustained by the patient, who left the hospital on the 15th, and is reported to have soon afterwards completely regained his health.POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. CASE II. M. M'L., 20 years of age, from Ross-shire, was admitted on the 23d of May 1853. He stated, that until the last two years his health had been perfectly good, but that, during this period, he had suffered from frequent and excessive bleeding at the nose, accompanied by a gradually increasing swelling of the right cheek, and obstruction of breathing, at first through the right nostril, and then through the left also, until both were com- pletely obstructed. After suffering in this way about twelve months, he had repaired to the In- firmary at Glasgow, where his case appears to have been regarded as irremediable, since, althougli he had while there a very copious discharge of l)lood, no attempt was made to afibrd relief. He therefore retm-ned home ; and, as the hemorrhage became not only more frequent, but more severe, his state seemed entirely hopeless. But cherishing some idea of escape, the patient gathered together a little money for the purpose of coming to Edin burgh, which was regarded b)- his friends as so135 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. useless au imdertakiug, that they seized upon his little store as the best means of preventing its exe- cution. He, however, obtained the requisite means from some other source, and having accomplished the long jom-ney, placed himself under my care. I at once recognised the fibrous polypus of Dupuytren, to the one of whose two recorded cases, which I happened to witness, this patient's had a remarkable resemblance. The tumour was about the size of a small orange, firm, elastic, and slightly lobulated, not adherent either to the LQtegmnents or the mucous membrane, and evidently proceeding from the maxillary antrum through absorption of the bone. In order to get access to it, and also to afford the blood that must flow free vent for its escape, I laid oj)en the cheek from the angle of the mouth backwards, so as to expose the tumom- completely. Strong- forceps were then fixed into it and used with all my force; while the fingers of the left hand assisted in detaching the roots. By these efforts, though not without time, labour, and fearful hemon-hage, the object Avas at length attamed.136 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. The wound of the cheek healed entii-ely hy the first intention, so that it left no traces of its existence; and the patient, completely relieved from the disease, soon regained his health. He was dismissed on the 20th of June. CASE III. Eleven years ago Lord called upon me and presented the following letter :— New Street, 25th June 1850. Dear Sir—I beg leave to inform you that Sii- Benjamin Brodie and myself, in the first instance, and Mr. Travers, Mr. Csesar Hawkins, and my- self, in a second consultation, made a strict in- vestigation of Lord 's case, and that we all came to the conclusion, that no attempt at the removal of the disease (about which you are con- sulted) could, with any propriety, be recom- mended, firstly, on account of the extent of its attachment; secondly, on the impossibility of its complete extii-pation; and thirdly, on the great probability of its return. My intention in u-ritingPOLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 137 this, however, is only to express to you the opinion formed here, and not in any way to dic- tate to you; but I considered it due to any sur- geon to inform him of the investigation which has been made, and the conclusion which had been arrived at from the examination.—Believe me, etc. Bransby B. Cooper. P.S.—I wish you to see the prescription for the medicine I have recommended; and should be obliged for your opinion on the case. Lord — then stated that he had returned from Canada, where he was upon the staff of Lord Elgin, to obtain relief from his complaint, and had been two months in London under the care of Mr. Cooper, together with the other gentlemen mentioned in his letter. As they all led him to understand that his case was hopeless, he was prepared to submit; but, as a forlorn hope, wished to have my opinion on the subject. He then in- formed me that for a long while past he had been annoyed by impeded breathing through his nose, and a con-stant discharge of watery fluid from it,POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 138 which was particularly inconvenient at night by soiling his pillow during sleep; but that within the last twelve months the complaint had assumed a more serious aspect by the accompaniment of frequent and excessive hemorrhage. Upon exami- nation I found the nostrils very narrow, and presenting nothing to view on the most careful inspection; but in the pharynx I felt a round tumour protruding from the left posterior opening of the nasal cavity, which completely accounted for all the symptoms. The patient told me that this growth had been detected in London, where it was proposed to attempt its removal by dividing the soft palate; but that this proposal had been rejected as no less impracticable than useless. Eather surprised that any difficulty should have been experienced in the case, I at once ex- pressed my readiness to remove the polypus by extraction through the nose; but this j)roposal was too startlmg for immediate acceptance, and I was therefore requested to communicate with Mr. Cooper, while the relatives were acquainted witli the opinion that I had expressed.139 POLYPUS OP THE NOSE. 111 tlie coiu'se of a few days, during whicli one of the profuse bleedings took place, the requi- site sanction having been obtained, I was re- quested to do whatever seemed proper; and therefore, with the assistance of Dr. Duncan, which I had asked in anticipation of hemorrhage, pro- ceeded without delay to the operation. I used the ordinary small polypus forceps, and by a single twist of them brought away the whole of the morbid growth through the nose without any bleeding worthy of mention. Thus a disease regarded as incurable was instantly removed; the respiration became free; there was no more hemorrhage; and the general health soon became restored; so that the patient was able before long to return to Canada, where he resumed his military duties. He afterwards went to India and commanded one of Her Majesty's regiments during the mutiny campaign, never having experienced the slightest tendency to relapse, or any inconvenience except the loss of his olfactoiy sense, which was not regained.AXILLARY ANEURISM. 140 AXILLARY ANEUEISM. The Hunterian operation was so greatly and manifestly superior for the treatment of popliteal aneurism, to the one previously in use, that it speedily banished the latter from professional con- fidence, and came to be regarded as the proper course upon all occasions admitting of its adop- tion. But there appears to be good ground for suspecting that this generalization was no less un- just than hasty, since, while the popliteal vessels were situated very unfavourably for the old ope- ration, and the femoral artery lay most conve- niently for the new one, there were other parts of the body in which, the conditions being reversed, there was not the same reason for preference. In the popliteal region the vein lies over the artery, with which it is inclosed in a firm sheath, so as to render ligature of the latter almost impracticable without injury of the former, which would cause mortification of the limb as a necessary consequence of both vascular trunks being obstructed; while,AXILLARY ANEURLSM. 141 on the other hand, the femoral artery is more superficial than the vein, and easily accessible for ligatm-e. But, in regard to axillary aneurism, the state of matters is precisely the opposite, since the artery is readily within reach at the seat of dis- ease, and exposed with great difficulty at any part of its coiurse nearer the heart. Thus, it will be found that almost all the earlier operations per- formed on the Hunterian principle for axillary aneurism were mortifying failm'es, and that it has been only since Mr. Ramsden led the way to liga- tm'e of the subclavian at the best place for the pmvpose, that this mode of treatment has proved at aU satisfactory. Even in this improved, or, as it has been thought, perfect state, the operation will be found to have been abundantly fruitful of fatal results, as appears from the researches of Mr. Erichsen, whom all the cases that he could find on record have led to the conclusion that 50 per cent perish from the various effects of hemor- rhage, inflammation, and deep-seated suppuration —the true average being obviously much more unfavourable, as the successful are less likely toAXTLLAEY ANEURISM. 142 escape notice than the unsuccessful cases. For my own part, I have tied the suljchiviaii art-ciy in three cases, two of wliich terminated well, and the third proved fatal from hemorrhage—the. patient's arterial system being in ii Ycry unsound state, as indeed appeared from his having had the femoral artery tied by myself on a former occasion for popliteal aneurism. I have therefore no prejudice or hostile feeling towards the opera- tion, but must admit, that except in certain conditions of the neck, it is a very difhcult and troublesome process, especially on the left side, where the vessel lies lower. It may be said, that the dangers of tying the subclavian, however great, must fall short of those to be expected from opening the sac, and securing the vessel at the seat of its rupture, such as tlio profuse hemoiThage to be anticipated at the time of performance—the exhausting suppuration of the large cavity exposed—-and the risk of secon dary bleeding from applying the ligature at an unsound part of the vessel. These seem indeed, at first sight, rather formitlable objections to theAXILLARY ANEURISM. 143 procedure in t|uestioii; but, when dispassionately considered, will be found to lose much, if not all of theii- force. For, in the first place, it has been established that the operation may be so con- ducted as to reduce the loss of blood within a very moderate amount; then the cavity, if freed from indurated coagulum, is found to contract and close with great facility; and lastly, the alleged inability of the vessel to be tied with safety at the ruptured part, appears to be purely matter of assumption, which is completely contradicted by experience. In spontaneous aneurism it has been an estab- lished principle that all the portion of artery included within the sac is to be deemed unsound, and unworthy of confidence as a subject for the ligature. But this view appears to have been rashly adopted, since extension of the sac does not depend upon the state of the vessel, or in any way affect it, and as the disease, notwithstanding its title of spontaneous, to distinguish it from the traumatic form, in 99 cases of 100, or rather perhaps always, proceeds from some local injury stretching or bruising the coats at a. particularAXILLARY ANEURISM. 144 point of tlieir extent. It may l)e further remarked that althougli in an aneurism of any given size, the artery beyond its limits is deemed to be sound, it would be considered diseased at the same part if the tumour had extended its limits ; while it is obvious that this change could not have produced any alteration in the state of the vessel. It was these considerations which guided me safely through the following very formidable case. A gentleman, about 50 years of age, resident in Glasgow, applied to me on account of an axil lary aneurism of large size, and having been advised to have the subclavian artery tied, went home to make the necessary arrangements. Upon his return to Edinburgh I found the arm greatly swelled from the shoulder downwards, of a bright red colour, and extremely painful, in which state it continued with aggravation of the symptoms, notwithstanding all the soothing means that could be employed. In the coiu-se of two or three days the redness assumed a dusky hue, and vesication appeared at various parts of the surface,AXILLARY ANEURLSM. 145 there being at the same time extreme frequency of pulse, with other indications of intense consti- tutional disturbance. In these circumstances it was manifest that the result must soon prove fatal, unless some effectual means of relief were speedily employed. Of these the only one that seemed practicable was amputation at the shoul- der-joint, which of course would instantly termi- nate the patient's existence, unless the ruptured artery admitted of being tied. But for the reasons which have been stated, entertaining no doubt on this point, I did not hesitate to perform the ope- ration, cutting through a mass of gangi"enous muscles, and exposing the artery a little below the clavicle, where the coats at its orifice, seeming quite sound, the ligature was applied. Every- thing went on favourably afterguards, so that in less than three weeks the patient felt able to go home, where he enjoyed good health for several years, until carried off by a different disease. Fortified by this experience, I was prepared for the following still more arduous undertaking. LAXILLARY ANEUELSM. CASE I. D. L., cct 47, applied for admission into the hospital on the 26th of January 1860, on account of a large tumour, which completely filled the left axilla, and greatly distended the muscles, before as well as behind the shoulder. The skin was tense, but not at all discoloured, and an obscure fluctuation could be perceived throughout the whole extent of the swelling, which the patient positively stated had not existed more than a week, although for nearly two months he had felt pain in his shoulder, and observed that there was no pulse at the wrist. There Avas a distinct aneu- rismal bruit, but no pulsation that could be felt in the tumoiu", except at its upper part, which projected above the clavicle. As in these cii'cum- stances there could be no hesitation in regarding the disease as an aneurism, careful inquiry was made as to the probable cause of its origin, but at first witliout success, since the patient positively denied having experienced any blow or wrench adequate to produce the effect. At k'ngtli, liow-AXlLLAllY ANEUEISM. t'ver, he stated that, being tenant of a saw-mill, lie occasionally assisted his men in turning heavy log's by means of the " cant-hook," and that upon such occasions—^having had his left hand ampu tated at the wrist-joint by myself twelve years ago, on account of an injmy from a saw—he was accustomed to rest his elbow on the pole, which was apt to spring up with great force, and thus subject his arm to a vi(jlent jerk at the shoulder. Having met with a case of axillary aneurism which was caused by the patient simply raising his arm to prevent his hat from being bloAvn off as he got out of a railway carriage, I deemed this explanation sufficient. In the course of a few days after admission, the tumour enlarged considerably, and assumed a dark colour at some parts of its surface; while a. slough formed over the scapula, where the pres- sure was most severe. At the same time the patient began to wander in his ideas, and his ]ml.se rose to 180. It was therefore manifest, rluit unless some decided steps were taken without flchiy to afford relief, tlie i-esult must very soonAXILLARY ANEUKLSM. prove fatal. Ligature of the suljclaviaii was quite out of the question, from the tumoui' extend ing above the clavicle; and amputation at tlu; slioulder-joint at first seemed to be the only alter native. But before proceeding to this desperate remedy, I felt desirous of ascertaining the state of matters in the axilla, and therefore proceeded in the following manner :— On the 1st of February, chloroform having been administered, I made an incision along the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, through the platysma myoides and fascia of the neck, so as to allow a finger to be pushed down to the situation where the subclavian artery issues from under the scalenus anticus and lies upon the first rib. I then opened the tumour, when a tremen dous gush of blood shew(,'d that the artery was not effectually compressed; but while I plugged the aperture with my hand, Mr. Lister, who assisted me, by a slight movement of his finger, which had been thrust deeply under the upper edge of the tumour and through the clots con tained in it, at length succeeded in getting com-AXILLARY ANEURISM. 14.9 maud of the vessel. I then laid the cavity freely open, and with both hands scooped out nearly seven pounds of coagulated Ijlood, as was ascer- tained by measiu^ement. The axillary artery ap- peared to have been torn across, and as the lower orifice still bled freely, I tied it in the fbst instance. I next cut through the lesser pectoral muscle, close up to the clavicle, and holding the upper end of the vessel between my finger and thumb, passed an aneurism needle, so as to apply a ligatm-e about half an inch above the orifice. The extreme eleva- tion of the clavicle, which rendered the artery so inaccessible from above, of com'se facilitated this procedm-e from below. Everything went on favourably afterwards. The edges of the wound, which had been brought together by stitches of the silver suture, united chiefly by the first inten tion. The ligature was found loose on the thir- teenth day, the pulse gradually decreased in fi-e- quency as the patient regained his strength, and the discharge, which was at first profuse and mixed with clots of blood, progressively diminished. He wa.s dismissed on the 14tli of Marcli, six weeks150 AXILLARY ANEURISM. after the operation, and before long resumed his employment, in the possession of perfect health. When this case was communicated to the London Mcdico-Chirurgical Society, a professor of surgery, whose ideas upon the subject must be rather peculiar, contended that the aneurism was traumatic!! so as not to imj^ly unsoundness of the artery. I may therefore mention that the patient having died lately from aneurism of the aorta, it was found on dissection that his arterial system was in a state of general and extreme degeneration. A circumstance in this case which appears to me particularly deserving of attention in a prac- tical point of view, is the method that was em- ployed to obtain command over the artery before it was tied, since, unless this had been done, it is ob- vious that a fatal hemorrhage must have speedily ensued after the sac was opened. Thirty years ago I acted upon the same principle in my first opera- tion for removing the superior maxillary bone. An attempt had been previously made in another case to accomplish this object, but without sueAXILLAEY ANEURISM. 151 cess, on account of the hemorrhage ; and, although at a loss to understand how it should prove trouble some if the incisions were properly conducted, I resolved to obtain command over the only source fi"om which the blood could proceed from the deep part of the wound, which was the internal maxil- lary artery. With this view I made an incision between the ramus of the jaw and mastoid j^rocess, so as to enable the gentleman who assisted me, the late Sir George Ballingall, to introduce his finger, and compress the vessel on the neck of the condyle. This had the desired effect, which, as I expected, proved quite unnecessary, and the opera- tion was completed, for the first time in Great Britain, on the 15th of May 1829. I venture to hope that, through the employ- ment of this expedient, axillary anemisms not amenable to ligature of the subclavian artery may be remedied by the old operation ; and I am in - clined to think that, even in cases where the for- mer procedure is practicable, the latter may be preferable. Upon two occasions, as already said, I liave tied the subclavian artery for aneurism wdth152 AXILLARY ANEURLSM. perfect success, and have therefore no prejudice against the operation; but nevertheless, I feel satisfied that it is much more difficult of execu- tion, more apt to be followed by hemorrhage, as well as fatal inflammation of the deep textures, and less certain to afibrd relief, than the other method. For it by no means necessarily follows, that after the artery has been tied, the contents of the aneurism are always absorbed, while, when the sac is opened, the whole of the eflfused blood is at once removed. CASE 11. About twelve months ago, Dr. Embleton of Embleton in Northumberland, placed under my care another axillary anemism. The patient was a farmer and fish-cm-er, about fifty years of age, of a robust frame and highly excitable disposition. The tumom- was the size of an orange, and ex- tended from the axilla downwards. It had com menced about a year before without any distinctly assignable cause, and increased slowly until the last month or six weeks, during wliicli its progress be-153 AXILLARY ANEURISM. comiiig more rapid, rendered relief very desirable. Ill conformity with the views that have been ex- plained, I did not hesitate to choose the old opera- tion as most expedient for this purpose, and accordingly performed it on the 17th of August. Finding that the radial artery, having a very hio-h orioin, ran over the surface of the sac, I took care to avoid it in laying open the cavity, and then, having tm-ned out the clot, had no difficulty in tying both orifices of the vessel, the pulse at the wrist remaining undisturbed. Next day the patient was restless, with hunied circulation and confusion of ideas. On the following day his condition distinctly assumed that of delirium tremens, to which I then, for the first time, learned his habits strongly predisposed him. At the same time the ann became gTeatly swelled from the shoulder downwards, at first of a red and afterwards of a yellowish colour. The con stitutional disturbance then gradually subsided, but suppuration and sloughing of the subcutane- ous cellular texture took place, requiring incisions at different parts of the limb. Yet notwithstand-154 ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. iiig these adverse circumstances, so rapid was tlic subsequent process of improvement, that in less than a month after the operation the patient re- turned home, where he soon regained his health. It cannot, I think, be doubted that the threatening of gangrene in tliis case proceeded from the constitutional tendency to overaction, aiid that if the artery had been tied above the origin of the radial, the result would in all pro- bability have been fatal. AKEUEISM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Four years ago I received the following letter from Mr. Haldan of AyT :— Ayr, 10th June 1857. My dear Sir—I saw a man, named David Craig, living in the neighbourhood of Daily, yesterday. He has an aneurism, of considerable size, on the left common carotid, low in the neck.155 ANEURISM OF THE CAEOTID ARTERY. 1 advised him to lose no time in putting himself under yom- care, if you will have the kindness to admit him into your wards. The history is as fol- lows :—Seven weeks ago, in a brawl, he was stab- bed in the neck, on the left side ; the wound was about an inch in extent su]3erficially, and situated immediately over the track of the great vessels, an inch and a half above the sterno-clavicular articulation. The wound was received in a rather dark room, about two o'clock in the morning, and he was discovered almost immediately after lying in a great quantity of blood. I believe the hemorrhage had by that time stopped. About fom- o'clock in the afternoon, while answering some questions that were being put to him by a poHce constable, violent hemorrhage again oc- curred, and in five minutes he was all but dead. The hemorrhage is described as not having occurred per saltum, but the blood as being of a rather red colour. I saw him, as a medico-legal case, twenty- five hours after the injury. He was then very pale and weak. The wound had been brought together by three sutures after the second bleed-1 56 ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. iiig. There was a small flat tumour, as of a clot, lying over the vessels, and to which a pretty firm impulse was communicated. The pulsation of the right carotid was very feeble. I did not see the case again till yesterday, when I was informed that the small tumour observed after the injury slowly decreased in size, and, about eight days ago, the present tumour was observed, and that since that time it has been rapidly increasing.— I am, etc. John C. Haldan. The man was to go into Edinburgh to-day. The patient, a young man, set. 20, was ad- mitted into the hospital on the 10th of June. The aneurism, which was about the size of an orange, extended in a transverse direction from the trachea to the outer edge of the sterno- mastoid, and downwards close to, or rather under, the clavicle, throbbing throughout with great force. Nearly at the centre there was a cicatrix, shewing where the wound had been. In the com-se of a few days, notwithstanding confine- ment to the horizontal posture, and low diet.ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 157 tlitTc was M distinct enlargement of the tumour, so that it seemed necessary to decide without delay upon the course to be pursued. The case was obviously one of great responsi bilit}", involving, as it did, not only the patient's life, but also that of his assailant. There could be no doubt that if the anem-ism were allowed to proceed it would before long prove fatal, by inter- fering with respiration, or opening inwardly, if it did not do so upon the external surface. On the other hand, it was evidently impossible to tie the artery below the tumom^, while an aperture could not be made into it without subjecting the patient to instant and extreme hazard. The wound of the artery might be opposite the cicatrix, but it might also be situated at a lower point if the knife, as was not improbable, had a downward direction, in which case it would hardly be pos- .sible to apply a ligature ; and, wherever situated, it could afford little assistance in discovering: the vessel, since the pressure which had been in opera- tion for nearly two months must have so consoli- dated tlie textures as to render their recognition158 ANEURISM OF THE CAKOTII) ARTERY. .111(1 separation equally clifHcult. Tlicre thus seemed to be not only a great risk of the hemor rhage proving incontrollable, but also ;i hardly less formidable danger of injm-ing the internal jugular vein. Having carefully l)alanced these; different considerations, I arrived at the conclu sion that it was my duty to give the patient his only chance of escape, and proceeded to perfonn the operation on the 17th of June. Chloroform having been fully administered, and the patient being placed upon his back, with his shoulders slightly elevated, I pushed a knife through the cicatrix, and followed the blade with the forefinger of my left hand so closely as to pre- vent any effusion of blood. I then searched through the clots and fluid contents of the sac for the wound of the artery, and found that pressure at one part made the pulsation cease. Keeping my finger steadily applied to this point, I laid the cavity freely open both upwards and downwards, turned out the clots, and spunged away the fluid blood so as to get a view of the bottom, wliidi presented the smooth shining aspect of a serousANEUEISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 15.9 ineniLraiic, without the slightest indication of either the artery or vein that could be seen or felt. In order to make the requisite dissection, I next attempted to close the orifice by means of forceps, but found that it had the form of a slit which could not be thus commanded. It was also so near the clavicle, that pressm^e could not he employed below it, and, to my still greater concern, lay on the inner, or tracheal side of the vessel, so that the compression required for its closure, instead of being backwards upon the ver- tebrae, was outwards upon the vein. In these circumstances it seemed proper, so far as possible, to lessen the opposing difficulties, and I therefore ran a bistoury through the skin and the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, so as to divide this part of the muscle together with the superjacent integument. I then seized the edge of the slit in the artery, as it lay under my finger, with catch forceps, and desired them to be held so as to draAv the vessel towards the trachea, while still sub- jected to compression; then carefully scratched with the point of a knife until the arterial coat1 CO ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ATHKKY. was broiiglit into view at its external edge, a little above the aperture, where a ligature was passed by the needle and tied. I repeated the same procedure below the wound, and, when it was completed, had the satisfaction of finding that my finger could be withdrawn without the slightest appearance of bleeding, instead of the tremendous gush which had previously attended its slightest displacement. The ligatures sepa- rated on the tenth day, and the patient, who had suffered no inconvenience since the operation, was dismissed on the 17th of July. I have thus particularly related the steps of this operation, because it was by far the most arduous that has ever occurred in the course of my surgical experience. Indeed, even now I can- not, without a shudder, reflect on my position, when the slightest displacement of one hand must have instantaneously caused a fatal hemorrhage from the carotid artery, and a ^^^?ong direction of the needle by the other, to the smallest possible extent, would have given issue to an irrepressil)le stream from the jugular vein.LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. LGl UGATUEE OF THE CAEOTID AETEEY FOE AN ANEUEISMAL TUMOUE OF THE OEBIT. In 1809 Mr. Travers tied the carotid artery ^vith success for the remedy of what he regarded as an " aneurism by anastomosis in the orbit." Since then various cases of a similar kind have been placed on record ; but the one about to be related is, so far as I know, the fii'st that has occurred in Scotland. jVIrs. B., aged 22, recommended to my care by Dr. Adamson of St. Andrews, was admitted into the hospital on the 26th of June last, on account of protrusion of the right eye-ball, which was so projected that the lids could hardly meet over it, the lower one being everted, with great vascular swelling of the conjunctiva. In the hoUow of the orbit on the upper side, and along the frontal ridge, a pulsating tumour could be felt. The patient complained of an unceasing and most dis- tressing noise in her head, which could be heard by applying the ear to any part of it. When M162 LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. pressure was made on the carotid, all the symp- toms were susj)eiided, the orbital tumour subsid- ing, and the noise, together with other disagree- able feeling, suddenly ceasing. But if the pressure was at once withdrawn, there instantly occurred an intolerable sensation, which it was stated some- times lasted for several days, while a gradual removal of the compression was not productive of any similar consequence. In the preceding month of October the patient had noticed a slight tendency to protrusion of the eye, which, when mentioned to her friends, was treated with ridicule, and did not prevent her from being married in the December following. Fom- or five weeks after this event she suddenly felt a smart pain in the right temple, which lasted for a couple of hom's, and was speedily followed by distinct protrusion of the eye-ball, with double vision. Attacks of the same kind occurred after- wards, with intervals of from three to ten days, and then the state of matters became such as has been described. In these circumstances Dr. Adamson and Mr. Watson Wemyss of Denbrae,LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 163 who before be reliuquisbed tbe profession devoted mucb of bis attention to optbalmic surgery, and in whose neighbourhood the patient resided, was of opinion that ligature of the carotid afforded a fair prospect of recovery; and, taking the same view, I did not hesitate to jDerform the operation. On the 3d of July I tied the carotid imme- diately above the crossing of the omo-hyoideus, with the eflFect of instantly relieving the patient from all her uncomfortable feelings. A few days afterwards, as the ectropium of the loAver eyelid still remained, I removed by scissors the whole projecting conjunctiva. On the 9th the eye was nearly natm-al in its position, and the double vision had ceased. On the 17th the ligatm^e sepa- rated, and on the 27th the patient was dismissed. The circumstances of this case have a remark- able resemblance to those of the one originally related by Mr, Travers, and most of the others .since recorded. There is the adult age — the female sex—the sudden pain—the noise in the head—the protrusion of the eye-ball—the ever- sion of the eye-lid—the pulsatory enlargement16*4 LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. at the margin of the orbit—and the remedy by ligatm'e of the carotid. The symptoms are so similar to those of aneurism by anaternids, that it seems at first sight as if there could be no doubt in regard to the natm'e of the disease. But it must be admitted that the sud- denness of commencement, without any premoni- tory sign or congenital preparation, together with the efiectual relief afforded by tying the arterial trunk leading to the part concerned, are not con- sistent with the ordinary featm'es of an aneuris- mal erectile tumom*. The only opportunity of solving the difficulty by dissection occmTed in the practice of Mr. Nunnely, who tied the carotid for what seemed to be a tumom- of the kind in question; but, on examination of the patient, who died soon after the operation, did not find any distinct evidence of the disease. While the patho- logy of this peculiar derangement thus remains obscure, it is satisfactory to learn, that m such cases the carotid artery may be tied with almost the certainty of affording complete and permanent relief.LIGATURE OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 165 LIGATUEE OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. F. S., 22 years of age, recommended by Dr. Ranken of Carluke, was admitted on the 15tli of May last, in the hope of obtaining relief from a tnmom' in his left buttock. It was round and tense, lying over the sciatic notch, and present- ing the aspect of a chronic abscess; but being found to have a strong expansive pulsation when the hand was placed over its surface. The swel- ling was greatly reduced in bulk by pressure, but speedily regained it when freed from restraint, with a still more forcible distending throb; and as the aneurisnial bruit was also very strongly pro- nounced, there could not be any doubt entertained in regard to the nature of the disease. The patient stated that he had only lately become aware of the disease, having his attention directed to it by pains in his hip and weakness of the limb. In choosing between the Hunterian and oldIGG LIGATURE OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. operations, I had here no hesitation in jDreferring the former, since there could not be any certainty as to the arterial orifice being within reach of the latter. I was not acquainted with any well authenticated case of the internal iliac having been tied successfully in Europe, but knew that this had been done elsewhere; and therefore felt no reluctance to undertake the task, though aware that it must be attended with difficulty from the deep situation of the vessel, the shortness of its com^se, and the vicinity of large veins. On the 29th, chloroform having been admin- istered, I made an incision, about six inches in length, from a little above the middle of Poupart's ligament in a crescentic form, at first upwards and outwards, and then upwards and inwards, passing the superior sjjinous process of the ilium at the distance of rather more than an inch. I then exposed the aponem-osis of the external oblique muscle, and ran a blunt-pointed bistoiury through it, together with the muscle, to the full extent of the first incision. In the next place I made an opening at the lower part of the woundLIGATURE OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 167 through the internal oblique and transverse muscles, together with the fascia transversalis, so as to admit the point of my finger upon which the bistoury was guided, so as at once to divide completely the whole of these parts. The only vessel requiring ligature, which was a small branch of the circumflexa ilii, having been tied, I pressed the peritoneum inwards, and without any delay or gToping, placed my finger on the bifurca, tions of the common iliac. Finding that any attempt to bring the vessel into view would be quite impracticable, I proceeded to pass the needle imder it with such guidance as was afibrded by the very distinct perception of its coats, which in this situation are so loosely connected with the neighbouring parts as to render this mode of pro- cedure less dangerous than it might appear at first sight. Feeling the point fairly past the artery, I slid down a pair of dressing forceps, seized the thread, disengaged it, and completed the liga- ture with all the tightness possible. The tumour immediately became greatly reduced in size, and entirely lost its pulsation, but at the end of twoLIGATURE OF INTERNAL ILLA.C ARTERY. (lays slightly regained it, and after- wards varied in this respect; while the diminution of size was steadily progressive; so that the patient, feel- ing quite well, went home on the 29th of July. I may here remark that the oi^e- ration was greatly simplified by the method I adopted in dividing the muscles, since they were so thick that if they had been cut through by degxees the process must necessarily have proved tedious and embarrassing; while the slight adhesion that exists between the fascia transversalis and peritoneum oj^posed none of the re- i| sistance which would have been en- 1 countered if I had attempted to cany I the knife along the external surface I of the former membrane. In tying I deep-seated arteries, it has been fre- quently thought necessary to employ169 GLATEAL ANEURISM. complicated instrumeuts for passing the liga- tiu-e round the vessels; but I feel quite sure that the simplest form of needle is the best. The one I used is here represented very accurately, in reo-ard to both form and size. It will be ob- served that the eye is not a slit, but circular and close to the point, so that the thread is readily caught when conveyed beyond the vessel. With this needle, besides the common, external, and in- ternal iliacs, I have tied the femoral artery thirty, the humeral ten, the carotid six, and the sub- clavian four times. GLATEAL ANEUEISM. J. C, aged 44, from Carlisle, was admitted on the 9th of June last, suffering from a very for- midable aneurism of the left buttock. He stated that seven years ago, having been employed in cutting willows for basket-making, he placed in hi.s coat pocket tlie knife employed for this pur- j)ose, which had a long, naiTow, and sharp blade, with a large thick wooden handle, and then threwGLATEAL ANEURISM. the bundle of osiers, which he had collected, over his shoulder. In doing this he struck the knife with such force as to drive it deeply into the hip, and caused the blood to flow with great profusion. Soon afterwards he was found lying in a very exhausted state by some chil- dren, who had him conveyed to the Carlisle Infirmary, where the wound was dressed super- ficially, and healed, with the result of a pulsating tumour, the size of an orange, remaining at the part. This had occasioned little inconvenience, and rather been a subject of amusement to him- self and friends, until lately, when it sud- denly enlarged, and became the source of pain, which was constantly severe, but occasionally increased to a degree that was almost intolerable. He had on this account again apj)lied to the Car- lisle Infirmary, and resided there for two or three weeks, during which an embrocation had been em ployed and a plaster prescribed. In these cii-cum stances Dr. Elliot recommended him to my care. On examination I found an enormous tumour, measuring more than tliirteen inches across in171 GLATEAL ANEURISM. both of its dii-ections, extremely tense, and pulsa- ting strongly, while the pain had become still more intolerable through the fatigue of travelling. It was evident that there should be no delay in re- sorting to some effectual means of relief; and of these I could not hesitate in preferring the old operation, since, although the case was more favourable for ligatm-e of the internal iliac than the one in which I had recently ojDerated, from the greater thinness and laxity of the muscular cover- ings, the large size of the tumour was opposed to the process of coagulation and absorption, while the patient's history clearly shewed that the ves- sel must be within reach at the seat of injury. I therefore resolved to follow this course, and pro- ceeded to do so on the 14th. The patient having been rendered unconscious and placed on his right side, I thrust a bistoury into the tumour, over the situation of the glateal artery, and introduced my finger so as to prevent the blood from flowing, except by occasional gushes, which shewed what would have heen the ftffect of neglecting this precaution, Avhile IGLATEAL ANEURISM. 172 searched for the vessel. Finding it impossiljle to accomplish the object in this way, 1 enlarged the wound by degrees sufficiently for the introduc- tion of my fingers in succession, until the whole hand was admitted into the cavity, of which the orifice was still so small as to embrace the waist with a tightness that prevented any continuous hemorrhage. Being now able to explore the state of matters satisfactorily, I found that there was a large mass of dense fibrinous coagulum firmly im- pacted into the sciatic notch, and—not without using considerable force—succeeded in disengaging the whole of this obstacle to reaching the artery, which would have proved very serious if it had been allowed to exist after the sac was laid open. The compact mass, which was afterwards found to be not less than a pound in weight, ha^dug been thus detached so that it moved fi-eely in the fluid contents of the sac, and the gentlemen who assisted me being prepared for the next step of the process, I ran my knife rapidly through the whole extent of the tumour, turned out all tliat was within it, and had the bleeding orifice in-173 AVULSION OF THE ENTIRE SCALP. stantly under subjection by the pressure of a, finger. Nothing then remained but to pass a double thread under the vessel, and tie it on both sides of the aperture. The patient did perfectly well after this opera- tion, with exception of complaining that he felt pain at the upper part of the thigh, for which I could not satisfactorily account until about three weeks afterwards, when I discovered a deep-seated abscess lying over the sciatic nerve. The matter having been evacuated by a free incision, there was immediate and complete relief, so that the patient was dismissed on the 29th of July per- fectly free from comj)laint. AVULSION OF THE ENTIRE SCALP. On the 2d of February last, M. C, about 24 years of age, the daughter of a farmer in Perthshire, applied to me for relief from a very unseemly and inconvenient condition of the up- per and lower lids of her right eye, the former being evcited with great expansion of the con-1 74 AVULSION OF THE ENTIRE SCALP. junctiva, and the latter so much elevated as to make vision impracticable unless when it was held down. Upon inquiring into the history of this condition, I was told, that about eight years ago the patient, while standing beside her father in his threshing mill, had her hair, which was very long, caught by some part of the machinery, and pulled with such force as instantly to tear away the whole scalp, including the eye brows, so that, instead of the light-coloured locks, there was suddenly presented to the horrified view of her parent the bleeding surface of a bare cranium. Contrary to what might have been expected, the healing process had gradually com- pleted cicatrization, except at a small part towards the vertex, where there was still a slight discharge of matter, all the bones being else- where covered by a smooth shining pellicle rest- ing directly upon them; while the ears, eye-lids, and other parts in the vicinity of the lost integu- ment were drawn up to assist in supplying its place. The hair that caused the accident had been formed into a wig, which formed a comfort-AVULSION OF THE ENTIRE SCALP. 175 able covering for tlie head, and by its amplitude presented a siu'prising contrast to the bare poll. In order to remedy the displaced condition of the eyelids, which was the only complaint of any consequence that remained as an effect of this remarkable injury, it appeared requisite that both the upper and lower one should be depressed. With this view, after removing the hypertrophied and projecting conjunctiva, I made two incisions along the lower lid, so as to form a triangular flap, having its base at the outer angle, and its apex near the inner canthus. This portion of skin having been detached from its subjacent connec- tions, I made an incision from the upper end of its base along the other lid, and having separated the cut edges, inserted the flap between them so as to increase the breadth, and consequently lower the level of this one, while the lips of the wound in the lower lid, being united by sutures, depressed it sufliciently to leave the eye-ball uncovered. -D The incisions, in short, were made in this form,—the flap, A B C, being inserted17() REMEDY OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA. between the edges of B D. The result was in every respect satisfactory, and the patient left the hospi- tal quite pleased with her improved appearance on the 2d of March. EEMEDY OF EEDUCIBLE HEENIA. The permanent remedy of reducible hernia has long been regarded as an important object of surgery ; and it is difficult to estimate the amount of misery that would be prevented by effectual means for the purpose. The numerous trials daily made by those who can afford the requisite expense and trouble for obtaining a per- fect mechanical support, afford the best evidence of what must be endured by poor people, who must be content with the bandage supplied by some charitable institutions, or obtaiued through their own scanty resources. From my own ob- servation, indeed, I can testify that in a very large proportion of such cases the truss does more harm than good, by pressing on the protrusion instead of restraining it. If, therefore, the abdo177 REMEDY OF KEDUCTBLE HERNIA. ininal apertures could be closed by surgicnl pro- cedure a great benefit would uurj[uestionably be eonferred upon suffering humanity, and hence, after all the other proposals for accomplishing this object had proved unsatisfactory, the ope- ration of Professor Wutzer met with a very favom-able reception. The sanguine expectations of its complete success, which were at first so fi-eely entertained and frankly expressed, have of late been somewhat chilled by the reports of nume- rous relapses; but as these may have been owing to some imperfection of the procedm-e, I still venture to hope that a step has been taken in the right di- rection, and that if not able to cm-e all cases of the kind in question, we shall at least have it in our power to remedy some of them, and relieve others. Nothing can be more simple in theory than the procedure of M. Wutzer, which is to push up the integument so as to invaginate it within the inguinal canal, and attach its highest point within the tendinous apertm-e by thrasting a needle through tlie textures at this part. But the a])paratus originally employed for accomplishing N178 REMEDY OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA. this object is extremely complicated and very difficult to manage, so that various modifications have been pro]30sed for its improvement, without, so far as I know, at all lessening either of these objections. For my own part I was deterred from attempting to perform the operation by the complexity of means thus employed in its per- formance ; but regarding the principle of treat- ment as deserving of confidence, adopted the following plan of carrying it into execution :— Instead of a complicated machine for dis- tending the invaginated integument, 1 employed a piece of bougie or gutta percha, to one end of which was attached a strong double thread. The plug thus prepared and smeared with cantharides ointment, was drawn into its place by the threads, which, by means of a cuiwed needle, guided on the finger faiiiy Avithin the ring, were passed, at the distance of rather more than an inch from each other, through all the textures to the surface, where they were tied firmly together, on a piece of bougie, to prevent undue pressure on the skin. It was feared by some, that the substitution of nREMEDY OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA. l79 thread for the needle, as a means of retaining the displaced parts in then- new position, would produce an undue degree of irritation, but I regarded the difference of elfect that might be thus anticipated, as favourable for the purpose in view, and I have not met with any unpleasant symptom from this source. The advantages of this procedure are--!, that it may be executed by means which are in the possession of every surgeon, instead of the complicated, expensive, and not easily manageable apparatus, hitherto deemed indispensable ; 2, that it may be accomplished A^ath much more certainty through the secure guidance of a finger, than by trusting to a piece of wood for gaining admission mthin the ten- dinous ring; 3, that the two threads, co-operating in their effect, render the chance of adhesion between the textures much greater than when it is attempted by the mere puncture of a needle. CASE. A. W., aged 21 years, a seaman, was admitted into tlic hospital on the 30th of January last,180 PROLAPSUS LINGUA. on nccount of an inguinal hernia, from wliich he had suffered two years. As the aperture was wide, and the tendency to protrusion very strong, I deemed the case a, proper one for this operation, which was accordingly performed in the way that has been described, on the 1st of February. The plug was removed on the 11th, and on the 25th the patient was allowed to walk about the ward. On the 6tli of March I submitted him to the inspection of the Med. Chirurg. Society, the mem- bers of which were satisfied that there was no ten- dency to protrusion—no impulse on coughing— and that the parts at the ring felt firm, while the invaginated portion of integuments admitted a finger to nearly its whole leng^th. PEOLAPSUS LINGUiE. It is to M. Lassus of Paris that we are indebted for the first systematic account of what he proposed to call Prolapsus Linguae. In liis Surgical Pathology, and more fully in the Memoii's of the Institute, from liis own experience, and tliePROLAPSUS LINGUiE. 181 detached observations of j)i'eceding authors, he has described the disease thus designated, ex- phiined its natui'e, and endeavoured to establish what seemed to him the proper principles for con- ducting its treatment. The representation here given of the case that I am about to relate, will convey some idea of the shocking appearance by which this derangement is characterized. The tongue protinding to the extent of three inches or more, so as nearly, if not quite, to touch the sternum, and thickened in a corresponding degree, •so as to assume a globular forai, impedes articula- tion, mastication, and deglutition, presses forwardsPROLAPSUS LlNGUiE. 182 the teeth of the lower jaw, which are usually encrusted with tartar, or altogether tlisplaced, while the jaw itself is altered in form, or rather retains the obtuse angle of infancy, so that, even when relieved from the resistance of the tonome, it cannot be brought into contact with the upper one. The surface of the tongue is of a brown or bluish colour, roughened with tubercular eleva- tions, and frequently ulcerated, mth a tendency to bleed. The lower lip is completely everted, and allows a constant discharge of saliva, which greatly increases the patient's discomfort. It is indeed surj)rising that existence can be tolerated in such distressing circumstances, and yet most of the cases on record had existed from ten to fifteen years ; while, in one related by Sandifort, the patient, who was a lady in Leyden, had endured the deformity for no less than forty years, with the very imperfect palliation afforded by the covering of a silver case, which she had had constructed to conceal it from view. It appears that the disease is usually, if not always, congenital; and Lassus says, that GasparPROLAPSUS LINGUA. 183 Peucer was the first to remark, that infants were sometimes born with their tongues hanging out of theii' mouths, like that of a recently slaughtered calf. Indeed, there is one instance on record of a fcetus in utero presenting the protrusion. It has natimiUy been attributed to a morbid enlargement of the tongue; but Lassus maintains that this is an efiect, and not the cause of the disease, which he believes to be displacement of the organ. He therefore regarded, as altogether unnecessary and improper, any interference by cutting instruments, as was employed in the case of a young lady at Stockholm, on whom Hoffman, a distinguished surgeon, carried into execution the decision of a consultation, comprehending the whole Medical Society of that city, which had been assembled, in 1695, to consider the case, by placing the tongue upon a spatula, slicing off the protruding part by means of a chisel, and suppressing the hemor- rhage by red-hot ii-ons. This rather rude proce- dure proved successful; l)ut, according to Lassus was quite unwan-antable, since the object might have l)een efjually well ol)tained by using gentler184 PROLAPSUS LINGUA. means, in accurdaiice with Lis view of the patho- logical coiidition—^ which l)eing that the enlarge- ment was merely an engorgement dependent upon displacement of the tongue, obviously suggested compression of the organ, so as to induce its re- turn into the mouth, and retain it there until all tendency to protrusion had ceased. He found that, in infants, the object thus held in vicAv could 1)6 easily accomj^lished through means of a ban dage applied so as to prevent protrusion, while the patient was fed by a spoou, and taken from the breast, which increased the evil by the action of sucking. In cases where the disease had been allowed to become more confirmed, by being per- mitted to continue for a series of years, he con- sidered it necessary to assist the process of disgorgement hy applying leeches and lotions calculated to promote contraction of the distended organ. But on no occasion did he think it requi- site or justifiable to remove any portion of the tongue. The more recent records of surgery contain little adflitional iiifonnation with regard to tlie185 PROLAPSUS LINGU.-E. nature and symptoms of this disease, and, in so far as its treatment is concerned, tend rather to perplex the subject by the diversity of practice which has been followed. For my own part, I have met with only three cases of this kind ; but, as they have proved very instructive, and led me to entertain definite ideas as to the mode of treat- ment, I think it may be useful to relate them, together with the practical views which they have suggested. The first was that of a girl twelve years of age, who was recommended to my care hy Dr. David Aii'ott of Arbroath. The prolap- sus had existed from the time of birth, and attained so large a size, that its remedy seemed impracticable without removal of the redundant portion. I therefore performed the operation by means of a A shaped incision, tied the bleeding vessels, and united the cut edges by sutures. The wound healed without any bad consequences ; but, to my great surpiise, in the course of a short time, the tongue had resumed, to the full extent, its l)iill< and form, so as apparently to be in )io rcspfct flifrci-ciit from what it had liocii pre-PROLAPSUS LINGUA. 180 viously to the operation. The tumour was then moistened with a strong solution of the sulphate of copj)er, and subjected to the pressure of a band age, under which it gradually diminished in size, so as to be reducible within the mouth. But when the prospect of a satisfactory residt was thus so favourable, the. patient, from being unfor- tunately exposed to cold, suffered an attack of laryngitis, which speedily proved fatal. The experience thus acquired naturally led me, in accordance with the opinion of Lassus, to regard excision as improper, and compression as the j)referable remedy; but no opportunity of acting upon this principle presented itself until R. M., aged fifteen, recommended to my care by Dr. Malcom of Perth, was admitted into the hospital on the 4th March 1856. The repre- sentation above given will shew the appearance then presented by the prolapsed tongue, which was said to have been unnaturally large at the time of birth, and to have afterwards increased, especially at the period of teething, and more recently after an attack of scarlatina. It was ofPEOLAPSUS LINGUA. 187 a globular form and brownish colour, with irregu- lar elevations on the surface, and a painful ulcer at one part from the initation of the teeth. A strong solution of sulphate of copper—9j. to sj.—having been applied on lint, the tongue was compressed by a bandage; and the following measm'ements, which were carefully taken by my house-surgeon, Dr. Marshall, will shew the pro- gTess of diminution :— Measurements. March 7th, circumference 8 inches, length 2^ inches. 8th, )> 7 )) )) 2-i- 9th, H }) >> H 10th, 5f H )) H 11th, H )> )> H 12th, )> 5 }1 ?1 2 1.3 th, )) 4-1 1) )> H 14th, )) H J) ?7 If 15th, » H » )) If 16th, H )) If 17th, )) 4 >) If March 22.—Bandage and lotion continued. Tongue now projects one inch only from the incisoi-s, but the circumference remains the same.188 PROLAPSUS LINGUA. April 1.—Projection reduced to half an inc^h ; circumference the same. Is able, with an effort, to close his lips over the tongue. On the 14th of April, as no fm-ther change had taken place, and as the tongue could not he retained within the mouth except by a voluntary- effort of the lips, from the lower jaw being so much altered in form as to prevent the teeth meeting sufhciently to do so, I removed the small redundant portion by means of cm'ved scissors applied transversely. Tw^o vessels having been tied, the edges of the wound were stitched to- gether. No bad consequence followed, and the patient was dismissed cured on the 18th of May. In reply to a letter, requesting Dr. Malcom to acquaint me with the patient's subsequent pro- gress, I received the following account:— Perth, lUh January 1857. My dear Sir—Shortly after the receipt of your letter, I visited, at Forteviot, the boy Mon- teath, upon whom you operated for enlarged tongue. Ho has grown to be a fin(> tall young189 PROLAPSUS LINGUA. man, and is working with liis father in a quarry, where he was employed when I called for him. He speaks and reads very distinctly, only with a lisp, but not more than hundreds of people in the world. I examined his mouth, and especially the lower jaw: the teeth meet to the first grinders, and then are separated. I told him that it was at your request I examined him; and he said that he finds that his front teeth are gradually approximating, and that the upper and lower jaws are much nearer each other. When I first saw him, and before your operation, he had a constant flow of saliva from his mouth : there is nothing of the kind now; he eats and drinks with perfect ease. Some relations of his, from a distance, came to visit his jDarents at the holidays, and, upon seeing him, did not know him. As the lower jaw is so much disposed to ap- proximate the upper jaw, I recommended him to persevere and wear an apparatus on the chin from the top of the head, which, by constant pressure, would assist this eflibrt of nature in com- pletely restoring the symmetry of the face, nowPROLAPSUS LINGUA. 190 that the caiiso of deformity is removed. It is only by the front face that you can see that there is any peculiarity in his appearance; his profile is perfect.—Yours very sincerely, Wm. Malcom. From what has been said, I think it will appear that Lassus was right in regarding com- pression as the most expedient means of correct- ing prolapsus linguae ; and that even when, from the long duration of the disease, with consequent difficulty of replacement from alteration in the form of the jaw, it may be found requisite to cm' tail the organ, this should not be done until the tongue has, so far as possible, been reduced to its natm-al size. The incision will thus be limited to the smallest extent, and the textm'e concerned will be in the most favourable condition for healing. CASE III. C. D., 7 years of age, from Perthshke, was admitted on the 4th of March 1859, on account191 PROLAPSUS LINGUA. of Prolapsus Linguae, from wliicli he had suf- fered foiu- years. The tongue protruded in a globular form, and of a brown colour to the extent of more than two inches. The teeth of both jaws, but pai-ticidarly the lower one, were pushed for- ward out of their proper place, and there was a constant discharge of saliva productive of great discomfort. Pressure was applied as in the last case, and with such effect that a daily diminution could be noticed until the end of a fortnight, when the swelling became stationary. On the 4th of April, therefore, I removed the still redundant portion by means of scissors, and soon afterwards the recovery might be regarded as complete, but for the alteration in form, which the lower jaw had experienced from pressure by the enlarged tongTie. This was so great that the front teeth were more than an inch apart. In course of time, however, this defect gradually disappeared, and I heard about a year afterwards that the boy had got quite weD. He was dismissed on the 8th of May.LITHOTOMY. 1!)2 LITHOTOMY. Cases within the last Sessional Period ok Nine Months. Name. i Age. Date. Weight of Stone or Stones. Result. ' 1. J. C. 6 Jan. 13 5vi Cured 2. H. A. 67 Feb. 13 oij- 3111- Cured 3. R. M. 65 May 4 3ij. Cured 4. P. D. 22 June 21 Sj. 3v. Cured 5. J. R 34 July 12 Sij- 3i- Cured J. D. 3 July 30 3ss. Cured I mention these cases merely as a text for the expression of my opinion that of all the methods which have hitherto been devised for the removal of stones from the bladder by incision, the lateral operation, as performed by Cheselden, is the best, and that the various proposals which have been suggested for its improvement are so many steps in a wrong direction. It is indeed too much the custom of young operators, when they meet with unfortunate cases, to account for their failures by attributing them to some fault of the method pursued; and tliere can be no doubt that in the193 LITHOTOMY. modern teaching of surgery there is more atten- tion paid to the mode than to the princi2Dle of performance. The fiddle-faddle instructions that emanate from some schools of the present day, not only for using but even for holding a knife, sufficiently denote the poverty of intellect whence they proceed, and the lowness of aspiration to which they are addressed. All intelligent students should regard such trivialities as beacons to warn them against a system of instruction that can tend only to cramp the faculties and impede the attainment of excellence. Instead, then, of stud3n.ng the endless appli- ances which have been suggested for supplement- ing or replacing the simple knife, staff, and for ; ceps, or the various directions in which it has been proposed to make the prostatic incision, it will be useful for any one who desires to remove uri- nary concretions with safety, to consider what is really requisite for success. In the first place there must be an ample aperture in the integu- ments, for access to the deeper parts, and allowing the urine to escape ; secondly, a free division of 0J.ITHOTOMY. 194 the pei'inoal muscles, to prevent tlieir subjecting the bladder to injurious pressure, by squeezing it between them and the forceps when the stone is di'awn down ; and thirdly, a section of the prostate fairly through the tough resisting band at its base, which cannot be torn without the cer- tainty of causmg fatal consequences. Mr. Liston propagated a most deadly doctrine when, in regard to the prostate, he taught, that " the less cut the greater the patient's safety," since even he was at length brought to admit, that there is a part at the base of the gland " which effectually prevents dilatation or enlargement of the orifice of the bladder beyond a certain and very limited extent, without laceration, dreadful suffering, and imminent danger." But even after the prostate has been divided thus far, it not unfrequently proves so tough and unyielding as to require one or more applications of the knife—the surgeon constantly endeavoming to obtain the requisite space by dilatation, but never using such a degree of force for this purpose as experience has proved to be dangerous. " If I find the stone veryLITHOTOMY. 195 large," says Cliesekleii, " I cut upon it again as it is held in the forceps." And so every prudent surgeon should do, instead of overcoming the resistance by a mere exercise of strength. When the lithotriptic process seemed to ap- proach perfection, it was supposed by many people that there would soon be no further occa- sion for lithotomy, from the care with Avhich patients might be expected to apply for relief at an early period of their complaint, while the con- cretion was still within reach of crushing; but the time which has since then elapsed affords suf- ficient proof that such expectations were altogether illusory, as the recognition of stones, in regard to their size, is still very much the same as it was in foraier days; while repeated attempts to break them, and comminute the fragments, are beset with the most serious danger of inducing a far more distressing condition than the one under treatment. This is the chronic inflammation, or what has been called catarrh of the bladder, which, instead of subjecting the patient to occasional pain or inconvenience, racks him day and nightLITHOTOMY. with constant torture, and admits of ]-elief only from death, not until the end, it may be, of several miseral^le years. If I were to relate some of the cases which have fallen under my obscrs^a- tion, of patients who perished in this way, after being supposed to have been treated with success by the most eminent stone breakers, the lithotiite would be regarded with more dread than the knife. Not long ago a gentleman resident in Gib- raltar, after suffering long and severely from stone in the bladder, repaired to Paris for the pmpose of getting it crushed. He there placed himself under the care of one, and then of another most celebrated operator, but Avithout accomplishing his object, so that, after remaining several months in the French capital, he returned home in a worse state than when he left it. Next year, finding the complaint intolerable, he again set out in quest of relief; but this time directed his course towards Edinburgh, and desired me to perform the cutting operation. 1 accordingly did so, and removed two stones, weighing together197 LITHOTOMY. four ounces, without any pain or subsequent trouble, so that lie was soon al^le to take liis departure with every prospect of complete and permanent relief. But when the stones were subjected to a sec- tion, they told their history no less distinctly than unfavourably for the lithotriptic process, since they consisted of two portions—one brown, and obviously composed of lithates, which had been the original fonnation, the other of that white and i)lio8p}iatic sort whiHi dnnotes the existence of198 REMOVAL OF A HAIR-PIN FROM BLADDER. long-continued catan-hal irritation of the bladder, doubtless caused by the efforts to break the stone in Paris, which fortunately j^roved abortive, aa the fragments could hardly have been removed without still more mischief. EEMOVAL OF A HAIE PIN FEOM THE BLADDER J. R, aged 21, a stout young woman from the country, recommended to my care by Dr. Howden of Haddington, was admitted into the hospital on the 17th of November last, for the removal of a hair-]3in, which had been introduced into the bladder. It was said to be of the double kind, about two inches long, with two points at one end, and a loop at the other, and could be readily felt on examination by sounding; so that the only difficulty attending extraction appeared to proceed from the risk of seizing the wrong ex- tremity, especially as from being retained several weeks it might be expected to have acquii-ed some degree of phosphatic incrustation, whichREMOVAL OF A HAIR-PIN FROM BLADDER. 199 would make its recognition by tlie touch of an instrument uncertain. On the 22d the patient being rendered un- conscious by chloroform, I dilated the urethra by introducing a succession of bougies gradually Lucreased in size, until the point of my finger was admitted into the neck of the bladder, where, feeling the tense resisting fibres situated there, I made a very slight incision hardly more extensive than the blade of a narrow straight bistoury em- ployed for this pm'pose. The finger then readily entered the bladder, and ascertained the position of the pin, into the loop of which a hook was passed, so as to efiect the extraction easily and safely. The patient sufiered no iaconvenience, and in the course of a few days, having regained completely the power of retention, was dis- missed. The poLQt of most interest in this case is the illustration it afibrds of the advantage which attends a combination of dilatation and cutting for obtaining access to the bladder. Both of these means, when employed separately, are apt200 MALIGNANT TUMOUR OF A TENDON. to occasion permanent incontinence of urine; wliile the former of the two, if carried beyond a certain degree, is apt to produce that suppurative inflammation, which in this situation so sm-ely proves fatal, whether the sex of the patient be male or female. But if the tense unyielding band of fibre is divided by incision, any amount of ad- ditional space required may be safely obtained by dilatation, or rather separation of the fibres that compose the texture concerned. MALIGNANT TUMOUE OF A TENDON. It has been established as a principle by patho- logists that the tendinous tissue is not liable to original degeneration of texture, and I subscribed to this doctrine until the following case presented itself to my notice. J. B., 25 years of age, a domestic servant, was sent to me by her master, one of the judges of the Court of Session, on account of a tumour that had appeared in her fore-arm, about six years ])re viously, and beoji oraduallv increasing. It layMALIGNANT TUMOUR OF A TENDON. 201 under the fascia on the front or palmar side, and extended fr-om near the wrist two-thirds of the dis- tance towards the elbow. The form was elongated and irregularly nodulated, the substance mode- rately fii-m and elastic, and the mobility slight, only in a lateral or transverse direction. From these cii-cumstances I concluded that the tumour involved the median nerve; and under this im- pression proceeded to remove it. Having made a free incision through the integ-uments, I opened the fascia, and found the tumom* at its lower part, presenting a dark- coloured, mottled, and shining surface, quite un- connected with the neighbouring parts, and hav- ing a cord protruding fr-om its extremity. This I divided, supjDosing it to be the nerve, and expecting to find a similar condition at the other end; but here there was no such distinct definition of the gi"owth, or any cord perceptible, so that some dissec- tion was required to finish the operation. The tu- mour, which was about six inches in length, having been thus remf)V(jd fjuite entire, was found to \)OHHHHH tlie foiiu liore delineated on a reduced202 MALIGNANT TUMOUR OF A TENDON. scale, and when divided longitudinally very unexpectedly disjDlayed a tendon instead of the nerve, which had been supposed the seat of its formation. The surface of this section displayed tlie usual appearance of a cerebriform growth, and the microscope denoted corresponding cha racters.MORBID EXPANSION OF THE NOSE. 203 The operation was performed on tlic 31st of January last. The patient made a good though rather slow recovery, was dismissed on the 25th of March, and soon afterwards resumed her duties as housemaid, which she still continues to exer- cise without any sign of relapse. MORBID EXPANSION OF THE NOSE. E. M., aged 18, came from the country on the 26th of April, complaining of her nose, whichj although originally not different from that of other jieoplc, had four or five years ago undergone a204 -MUliBlD EXPANSION OF THE NOSE. remarkable alteration, that rendered her counte- nance, not ill-favoui-ed in other respects, extremely peculiar and re^Dulsive. This deformity was an expansion of the extremity into a globular shape, as here very exactly represented, not depending upon enlargement of the skin merely, as hapj)ens not unfrequently in the male sex at an advanced period of life, but being a morbid development of all the tissues, so that even the columna was longer than usual. In the ordinary case of integumental h}^Der- tropliy, it is well known that the tumom's, no matter how numerous or enormous, may be re moved without any inconvenience, since they only require to be shaved off, without taking away the skin through its whole thickness, so that the cutaneous surface which remains, cicatrizes with nearly the same facility and rapidity as the one caused by a blister. I have therefore not scrupled to perform operations of this kind even at or be- yond the age of eighty, where the giwth had become so large as to render existence very uncom- fortable, l)y exciting the ridicule an<l disgust ofMORBID EXPANSION OF THE NOSE. 205 those who witnessed it. But the condition of this young woman did not admit of remedy on such a principle, and at first sight seemed an improper subject for interference. The patient's urgency having led me to recon- sider the subject, I resolved to try the efiect of removing a wedge-shaped portion of the promi- nence, and did so on the 6th of May, by means of two decided longitudinal incisions, embracing the projection, passing through the cartilages, and meeting at some distance down the septum. The edges of the wound were brought together by silver sutures, and united so that they left no trace of their existence, the nose not only being rendered very shapely, but allowing the other features to present their natm^ally jDleasing as pect.iiem[<;dy of strictures. 20G THE REMEDY OF STEICTUEES BY EXTERNA!. INCISION. A. L., 52 years of age, from Dundee, was nd mitted into the hospital on tlie 29th of Octol)er Last, sujffering from the effects of a stricture in his urethra. It had existed five or six years, and become progressively more troublesome, until it rendered micturition extremely painful, and pre- vented the introduction of instruments. At length the scrotum and perineum swelling, with much induration, it was thought proper to send the j)atient here. On his way the enlargement greatly increased, so as to extend above the pubes, and when he arrived no time was lost in making incisions for the escape of mine, which was evi- dently extravasated. These openings being free, and in the middle line, allowed the fluid such ready egress as prevented the sloughing that would otherwise have been occasioned, and the swelling speedily subsided. I then proceeded to remedy the stricture, andREMEDY OF STRICTURES. 207 soon succeeded iii passing bougies through the contracted part of the canal, which was imme- diately behind or below the scrotum, and carried on the dilatation until instruments of the full size could be introduced. Under this treatment all the wounds healed, except one in the scrotum, which was smTounded by very indurated textm^e, and allowed more than a half of the water to escape. After contending in vain against this obstacle to recovery for several weeks, I tried the effect of keeping a catheter in the bladder, but without any advantage, and should then have felt much at a loss if limited to the means that were in use before I adopted the method of external incision. On the roth of January a grooved director hav- ing been passed through the stricture, I cut fi-eely through the thickened and condensed textures, and then ran the knife fairly through the whole extent of contracted urethra. Tlu-ough the wound thus made a short catheter was introduced into the bladder and retained for a week. Eveiytliing went on favourably : the urine passed in a fullREMEDY OF STRICTURES, 208 Stream, the fistulous opening closed, find the pa- tient was dismissed cured on the 2d of Febniary. CASE II. A gentleman nearly 60 years of age, recom- mended to my care by Dr. Madstonc Smith of Exmouth, came here last sj)ring suflFering from a stricture of the urethra, which had existed for more than twenty-five years, and although treated by surgeons of skill and experience, had been long regarded as truly impermeable. I found a fistula in perineo, with great induration extending to the verge of the anus; but on the second day after the patient's arrival succeeded in passing a metallic bougie fairly into the bladder without any pain or a drop of blood. The dilatation was then carried on by successive steps and with in- tervals of sufficient length for preventing any undue irritation ; but all to no purpose, since the water still dribbled from the orifice of the urethra, and escaped in nearly an equal quantity by the fistulous opening, while the patient was dis- tressed by frequent calls to empty the l)ladder.209 REMEDY OF STRICTURES. aud continued to have a profuse discharge of mucus. The general health also did not im- prove, and, on the contrary, seemed to be giving way even more than it had done previously from the long continued annoyance. At lenoth, after two months had been thus worse than wasted, I divided the stricture by external incision. The patient was at once re- lieved from all his suflPerings; and by the end of three weeks went to London, where I saw him afterwards in the enjoyment of perfect health. From not using bougies, there has since then, I understand, been some return of the symptoms, as was to be expected. Other cases of a similar kind that have occurred, both in public and private practice, ^vithin the same period, might be mentioned, to illustrate still farther two practical facts which I have long been anxious to inculcate. These are that in some cases stricture of the urethra will not yield to dilatation, or rather continues to present its symptoms after being dilated; and tliat in Hucli circumstances a free division of I'REMEDY OF STRICTURES. 210 the contracted part by external incision affords effectual relief. Having, in common with all my professional brethren who have been much en- gaged in this department of surgery, frequently experienced the vexatious opposition of the disease in such a form, I felt great pleasure in communicating an easy method of overcoming the difficulty, and certainly was not prepared for the storm of abuse and misrepresentation which it brought down upon me. Nearly £800 of law expenses, incurred not for prosecuting the libel- lous attacks that were freely circulated, but in simply defending myself from the persevering liti- gation of obscm^e individuals, whose only ground of comj)laint was that I declined entering into discussion with them, as being beyond the pale of professional respect and courtesy, was one of the fruits derived from my proposal, and may not be unworthy of mention as a curious fact, shew- ing the danger which sometimes attends the in- troduction of improvements. In originally proposing the external incision for remedying strictures indomitable by tlio ordi-211 REMEDY OF STRICTURES. uary means of treatment, I believed that the only som-ces of danger which could result from this procedure were hemorrhage and infiltration of lu'ine, and that both of these consequences might with certainty be prevented. In the latter of these opinions I have been confirmed by a very large experience, in the com'se of which I never lost a patient from the loss of blood or urinary infiltration. But although so far correct in my anticipations, I was very unexpectedly led to re- cognise another source of danger, which could not possibly have been anticipated : this is, constitu- tional disturbance, proportioned in degree to the patient's excitability, and induced by the irrita- tion of m-ine breaking through a recently estab- lished union between the cut edges of the uretln^a. The ordinary s5miptoms of this efiect are rigors, vomiting and quick pulse, but in their more severe form may be attended with delirium, sup- pression of urine, and sinking. For a long while, and indeed not until I had operated upon between seventy and eighty cases, I regarded these occa- sional consequences of the operations with veryREMEDY OF STRICTURES. 212 little concern, having always found them to pass away in the course of a few hoiu-s without leaving any trace of their existence. At length a fatal case opened my eyes to the truth, and shewed- that no patient could be considered safe so long as he was exposed to such an attack, I then tried various means of counteraction, ' by di^dding the urethi'a more fi-eely, so as to prevent its premature clo- sure, by keeping the catheter a longer time in the bladder, by in- serting the finger from time to time, so as to separate the edges of the urethra, and lastly by introducing a tube through the wound of the pe- rineum, which I believe has com- pletely accomplished the object in view. It is about nine inches long, Jand of this form. It is easily intro- duced, and may be retained with perfect security, while exposing the coats of the bladder to no risk of the injurious pressm-e that attends the use of nn ordinai-y ontheEEMEDY OF STRICTURES. 218 ter, and eftectually prevents the cut edges of the urethra from uniting, so as to incui- the risk of being separated by the stream of urine, and thus give rise to the serious consequences of this event. It may be remarked that, in operating upon strictures anterior to the scrotum, I never intro- duce a catheter, as it seems to be quite unneces- sary, and therefore a useless complication. There is another point in regard to which my opinion has been considerably modified by expe- rience : this is, the extent to which division of a strictui'e may supersede the subsequent use of bou- gies. Originally I expected that the operation would not only afford complete relief from the ex- isting symptoms, but also extinguish the tendency to contraction, so as to render any futm'e treatment unnecessary; and that such may be the result has been fully ascertained. Thus in the very first case of division behind the scrotum, where the patient had suffered for more than twenty years, and been reduced to the most extreme distress, })eing unabk; oitlier to evacuate or retain the iiiinf, and rendered so wretched as in all sincerityREMEDY OP STRICTURES. 214 to pray for the termination of his existence, al- though during twelve months I had laboured in vain to afford relief by dilatation, temporary or permanent, internal incisions, and various combi- nations of these means—the oj)eration at once restored health and comfort, which have con- tinued without the introduction of instruments. Very nearly twenty years have now elapsed since this salutary change was accomplished, and since then I believe few have more enjoyed life, or do so now, than the well known and much respected individual who was the subject of it. A more recent instance of the same kind which may be mentioned, is that of a gentleman from the neighbourhood of Gloucester, who about two years ago was placed under my care by the medical friend who accompanied him. I found a man of natm'ally strong and energetic system, reduced by sufiering to a state of extreme weak- ness, irritability, and despondency, vdth. great enlargement of the scrotum and perineum, through which the urine passed by fistulous canals, havingREMEDY OF STRICTURES. 215 nearly deserted its proper cliannel. The patient would not allow me even to examine him except imder chloroform; and as in such a case dilata- tion was quite out of the question, I at once di-saded the contracted part of the urethra, and introduced the perineal tube. Wlien it was with- drawn at the end of three days, improvement quickly proceeded, and was completed in little more than three weeks, so that the patient then retmTied home quite a new man; and promising to let the full sized bougie, which I passed with perfect ease, be introduced occasionally for the pre- vention of relapse. From the letters of more than one practitioner, I was sorry to hear that this pre- caution had been neglected, and that the morbid condition was no less distressing than it had been before coming under my care. Not many weeks ago I received a letter of this kind so gloomy, that, in replying to it, I recommended the operation to be repeated with greater subsequent perseverance in the use of instruments. A few days ago, find- ing the card of this gentleman, I concluded that he had come again for my assistance, and upon216 REMEDY OF STRICTURES. calling at his hotel, was rather surprised to hear that he had gone upon an excursion to Melrose. But my astonishment was considerably greater next day when he walked into my room, and cor- dially shaking hands, exclaimed, " Well, you have made a cure of me." In reply, I rather anxiously inquired, " Wliat sort of a stream could he make ?" " It would turn a mill," was the ready rejoinder. Somewhat encouraged, I then asked to see the field of my operation, and found all the parts con- cerned in the most perfect state of integrity. It must be admitted, however, that such cases are exceptional, and that in general the stricture will return sooner or later unless the canal be kept dilated by the occasional introduction of bougies or catheters. But here a difficulty is pre- sented by the comparative rarity of skilful manipu- lation in the use of uretlnal instruments, of which the imperfection in most surgical armouries shews how little attention is apt to be bestowed on their employment. Thus a gentleman who had been under my care, lately -writing at a distance of little more than twenty miles from London, says217 REMEDY OF STRICTURES. of three practitioners in his neighbourhood, " One has an okl bougie made a.d. 1700 ; another, two or three old-fashioned catheters; and the third, some gum elastic catheters totally unfitted for the purpose." Such being the case, I think prudence requires that every patient who has had a stric- ture divided should learn to introduce bougies ; since by doing so at intervals of a week or fort- night he will be perfectly secure from future trouble.MR. SYME'S SURGICAL WORKS. I. PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. Bv JAMES SYME, F.R.S.E., Professor of Clinical Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. II. SUPPLEMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. In 8vo, Sewed. III. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PATHOLOGY AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 8vo, Boards. IV. ON THE DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Third Edition, 8vo, price 48. V. (JN STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, AND FISTULA IN PERINEO. Second Edition, 8vo, cluth, 48. 6d. VI. TREATISE ON THE EXCISION OF DISEASED JOINTS. 8vo, Boards, 58.PUBLICATIONS OP EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 88 Princes Street, Edinburgh. LIST OF FORTHCOMING WOEKS. PROFESSOR DALZEL. The Annals of the University of Edinburgh. By Andrew Dalzel, formerly Professor of Greek in the Univereity of Edinburgh ; with a Memoir of the Compiler, and Portrait after Eaeburn, In one vol. demy 8vo, [In preparation. THE DEAN OF LISMORE'S BOOK. Specimens of Ancient Gaelic Poetry. Col- lected between the years 1512 and 1529 by the Rev. James M'Gregor, Dean of Lismore—illustrative of the Language and Literature of the Scottish Highlands prior to the Sixteenth Century. Edited, with a Translation and Notes, by the Kev. Thomas Maclauchlan. The Intro- duction and additional Notes by William F. Skene. In one vol. demy 8vo. [In preparaiinv.2 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, J. F. CAMPBELL. A New Volume of West Highland Tales. By J. F. Campbeli-. Crown 8vo. [/n the press. DR. IRVING. The History of Scottish Poetry, from the Middle Ages to the Close of the Seventeenth Century. By the late David Irving, LL.D. In one vol. demy 8vo. [In the press. T. S. MUIR. Characteristics of Old Church Architecture in the Mainland and Western Isles of Scotland; with numerous Illustrations on Wood. In one vol. 4to. [^Beady. PROFESSOR SIMPSON. Aemoiia and the Islands of the Forth. Notes on an Ancient Oratory or Stone-roofed Cell dis- covered in the Island of Inchcolme, &c. &c. By J. Y. Simpson, Vice-President of the Society of Antiquaries. In one vol. \In jn'eparation,. By the same Author. Archaeology : its Past and its Future Work. An Address given to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. In 8vo, price Is. [Ready.3 88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. DR. DASENT. The Story of Burnt Njal. Life in Iceland at tlie end of the Tenth Century, By G. W. Dasent ; with an Introduction ; illustrated by Maps and Plans. In two vols. 8vo. [Nearly ready. DEAN RAMSAY. Beminiscences of Scottish Life and Character. Second Series. By the Very Rev. E. B. Eamsay, Dean of Edinburgh. In one vol. small 8vo. [Nearly ready. THE BISHOP OF ST. ANDREWS. A United Church of Scotland, England, and Ireland, Advocated. A Discourse on the Scottish Refor- mation, to which are added Proofs and Illustrations, designed to form a manual of Reformation Facts and Principles. By the Right Reverend Charles Words- worth, Bishop of St, Andrews. THE CIRCLE OF CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE. A Hand-book of Faith, framed from the expe- rience of a Layman. In one volume 8vo. [Nearly ready. DR. SOMERVILLE. 1741-1813. My Life and Times; being the Autobiography of the Rev, Thos. Somerville, Minister of Jedburgh, and one of His Majesty's Chaplains.EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, '4 PROFESSOR SYME. Clinical Observations. By James Syme, Pro- fessor of Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. In one vol. 8vo. [In preparation. PROFESSOR INNES. Slvotohes of Early Scotch History and Social Progress; The Church, The University, and Home Life. By Cosmo Innks, Professor of History in the University of Edinburgh. [Nearly ready. ORWELL. The Bishop's Walk and The Bishop's Times. By Okwell. In one vol. fcap. 8vo, price 5s. [Beady. JAMES DODDS. The Fifty Years' Struggle of the Scottish Covenanters. By James Dodds. Third Edition, price 5s. [Ready. NEW NOVEL. The Two Cosmos. A Tale of Fifty Years Ago. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. [Ready. THE AUTHOR OF RAB AND HIS FRIENDS. Horse Subsecivae. A Second Series. By John Brown, M.D., F.RS.E. In one vol. Svo. [Ready.88 PIUNCKS STKEET, EDINBURGH. 5 List of Works already Published BY EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 88 Princes Street, Edinburgh. John ABERCROMBiii, M.D., Late First Physician to the Queen for Scotland. Essays and Tracts :—• 1. Culture aud Diacipliue of the Miiid. II. Harmony of Christian Faith and Christum Character. III. Tliiak on the.se things. IV. The Contest and the Armour. V. The Messiah as an Example. VI. Elements of Sacred Truth for the Young. Fcap. Svo, cloth, .3s. 6d. .John Andekson, D.D., F.G.S., E.P.S., Author of ' The Course of Creation,' ' Geology of Scotland,' &o. Dura Don, a Mononraph of the Yellow Sand- stone ami its remarkable Fosisii remains, Roval 8vo, '•loth, 10s, (]<]. ^ ,EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 6 Archaeological Catalogue:— A Catalogue of Antiquities, Works of Arts, and Historical Scottish Kelics, exhibited in Museum of the Archseological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland during their annual meeting, held in Edinburgh, July 1856, under the patronage of H. K. H. The Prince Consort, K. G., com- prising notices of the portraits of Mary Queen of Scots, col- lected on that occasion. Illustrated, royal 8vo, cloth, 2Is. Aiigelo Saumartino, a Tale of Lombardy in 1859. Crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. A pretty story enough, and vraisemblable enough for the effect desired to be produced by the author, which is to awaken in the minds of ordi- nary English novel readers a lively feeling for the cause of Italian inde- pendence.—Spectator, December 29. David Balfour of Balfour and Trenaby. Odal Rights and Feudal Wrongs; a Memorial for Orkney. 8vo, cloth, 6s. James Ballantine. Poems. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Catharine D. Bell, Author of ' Cousin Kate's Story,' ' Margaret Cecil,' &c. Sydney Stuart; or Love seeketh not her Own. Fcap. 8vo, 4s, 6d. The Diary of Three Children; or, Fifty-two Saturdays. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 7 M. Betham Edwards, Author of ' The White House by the Sea' Now or Never, a Novel. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6cl. Charlie and Ernest; or, Plaj and Work. A Story of Hazlehurst School, with Foav Illustrations by J. D. Eoyal ISmo, 3s. 6A Margaret Maria Gordon (Brewster). Lady Elinor Mordaunt; or, Sunbeams in the Castle. Crown 8vo, cloth, 9s. " To say of this book, that it is written in a style which is worthy of its theme is no greater praise than it merits."—Morning Post, January 10. " The kindly and generous spirit of the book, its quiet and impressive religiousness, the earnestness which characterizes every page, and the sunny cheerfulness which make it the pleasantest of reading, cannot fail to endear it to many of those for whom it has been written. We thank Mrs. Gordon for this last and best of her books most sincerely and cor- dially."— The Scottish Press, January 9. Letters from Cannes and Nice. Illustrated by a Lady. 8vo, cloth, 12s. Work; or, Plenty to do and How to do it. Thirty-second thousand. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Little Millie and her Four Places. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 38. 6d. Cheap Edition. Thirty-fifth Thousand. Limp, 1h.EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 8 Sunbeams in the Cottage; or, What Women may do. A nanuLive chiefly addressed to the AVorking Classes. Cheap Edition. Thirty-fifth thousand. Cloth limp, Is. The Word and the World. Tenth Edition, 18mo, sewed, 2d. Leaves of Healing for the Sick and Sorrowful. Fcap., 4to, cloth, 3s. 6d. The Motherless Boy ; with an Illustration by J. Noel Paton, B. S.A. Cheap Edition, limp cloth, Is. Sir David Brewster, K.H., A.M., LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., itc, &c. Memoirs of the Life, Writings, and Dis- coveries of Sir Isaac Newton. With Portraits, 2 vols., large 8vo, 24s. New and Cheaper Edition, 2 vols., fcap. 8vo, cloth, 128. "Sir David Brewster's 'Life of Sir Isaac Newton' is a valuable contribution to English literature. It is an account of tlie life, writings, and discoveries of one of the greatest men tliat ever lived, by a gentle- man distinguished for liis profound scholarship and scientific knowledge. 'I'lie 1)(H>k is worthy of (he .«iihjcct to which it is devoted."—ionrfon Jicvieiv, December 16.9 88 PEINCES STKEET, EDINBUKGH. James D. Burns, M.A. The Vision of Prophecy, and other Poems. Second Edition, fcap. 8vo, cloth, 6s. John Bkown, M.D., F.R.S.E. Horse Subsecivse ; Locke and Sydenham, with other occasional Papers. Second Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, 9s. Supplementary Chapter to the Life of the Eev. John Brown, D.D. A Letter to the Eev. John Cairns, D.D. Second Edition, crown 8vo, sewed, 2s. " It forms an indispensable appendix to the admirable memoir of Dr. Cairns, and it wU], if possible, increase the love with which Dr. Brown's memory is cherished."—/S^co<(is^ Guardian, January 5. "There is a fresh luxuriance in the style, that charms and fascinates the reader."—Glasgow Saturday Post, January 5. K,ab and his Friends; Extracted from ' Horse Subsecivae.' Sixteenth thousand. Fcap. sewed, 6d. *'With Brains, Sir;" Extracted from * Horse Subsecivae.' Fourth thousand. Fcap. sewed, 6d. John Caikns, D.D. Memoirs of John Brown, D.D., senior Minister of the United Presbyterian Congregation, Broughton Place, Edinburgh, and Professor of Exegetical Theology to the10 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, United Presbyterian Church, with Supplementary Chapter by his Son, John Brown, M.D. Fcaix 8vo, cloth, 98. 6d. "The Memoir is exceedingly well written." "Every one should read the last chapter of Dr. Cairns' Memoir, giving an account of the closing scene of Dr. Brown's Viie."—Scotsman, September 11. " In preparing and publishing these memoirs, Dr. Cairns has conferred upon us a most valuable gift, and has fulfilled his own part with great discrimination and ability."—Evan. Christendom. Samuel Brown. Lectures on the Atomic Theory, and Essays, Scientific and Literary, 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 15s. Rev. John Beuce, D.D., Minister of Free St. Andrews Church, Edinburgh. The Biography of Samson. Illustrated and Applied. Second Edition. 18mo, cloth, 2s. J. F. Campbell. Popular Tales of the West Highlands, orally collected, with a Translation by J. F. Campbell' 2 vol&, extra fcap., cloth, 16s. "Mr. Campbell has published a collection of tales, which will be regarded as one of the greatest literary surprises of the present century. It is the first instalment of what was to be expected from any fair state- ment of the scientific value of popular tales. ... It required some striking demonstration of the real worth of popular tales to arouse Gaelic scholars from their apathy. They have been aroused, and here is the first fruit, in a work that is most admirably edited by the head of a family beloved and honoured in those breezy western isles, who has produced a book which will be equally prized in the nursery, in the drawing-room, and in the library."—Times, November 5th. "They are the 'Arabian Nights of Celtic Scotland,' and as such we recommend them as a present for the young"—Critic, November 2ith. " We feel assured that Mr. Campbell's labours will be rewarded with Buch signal success as shall encourage him to extend them in every direction11 88 PHINCES STREET, EDINBUKGH. over the rich field -which he has been the first to explore and cultivate." —Spectator, November 24<A. " The book is one that no modern student can afford to miss, and that few persons of any age or degree of culture would not come to again and again.—Daily News, December l&th. Eev. Thomas Chalmers, D.D., LL. D. Life and Works of Rev. Thomas Chalmers; Memoirs by Eev. W. Hanna, LL,D., 4 vols., Svo, cloth £2 : 2s. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown Svo, cloth, 12s. A Selection from the Correspondence of Dr. Chalmers, uniform with the Memoirs. Crown Svo, cloth, 10s. 6d. Posthumous Works, 9 vols., Svo.— Daily Scripture Readings. 3 vols., £1:11:6. Sabbath Scripture Readings. 2 vols., £1: Is. Sermons. 1 vol., 10s. 6d. Institutes of Theology. 2 vols., £1: Is. Prelections on Butler's Analogy, etc. 1 vol., 10s. Sabbath Scripture Keadings. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown Svo, 10s. Daily Scripture Eeadings. Clieap Edition, 2 vols., crown Svo, 10s. Astronomical Discourses. New Edition, cloth, 2s. 6d. Lectures on the Eomans. 2 vols., crown Svo, 12s. Institutes of Theology. 2 vols., crown Svo, 12s. Political Economy. Crown Svo, 6s. Select Work.s, in 12 vols., crown Svo, cloth, per vol. 6s. Vols. I. and II.—Lectures on the Romans, 2 vols. Vols. III. and IV.—Sermons, 2 vols. Vol. v.—Natural Theology, Lectures on Butler's Analogy, &c. Vol. VI.—Christian Evidences, Lectures on Paley's Evidences, Stc. Vols. VII. and VIII.—Institutes of Theologj', 2 vols. Vol. IX—Political Economy ; with Cognate Essays. Vol. X.—Polity of a Nation. Vol. XL—Church and College Establishments. Vol. XIL—Moral Philosophy, Introductory Essays, Index, <fec.EDMONSTON AND DOCJGLAS, 12 PlETRO COLLETA. The History of Naples, from the Accession of Charles of Bourbon to the death of Ferdinand 1st. Trans- lated from the Italian, with a Supplementary Chapter, by S. Horner. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 24s. Nathaniel Cdlverwell M.A. Of the Light of Nature, a Discourse by Nathaniel Culverwell, M.A. Edited by John Brown, DD., with a critical Essay on the Discourse by John Caims, D.D. 8vo, cloth, 12s. George Webbe Dasent, D.C.L. Popular Tales from the Norse, with an Intro- ductory Essay on the origin and diffusion of Popular Tales. Second Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. James Dodds. The Fifty Years' Struggle of the Scottish Covenanters, 1638-88. Third Edition, fcap., cloth, 5s. " The volume before us is by a Mr. Dodds, with whose name we were not previously acquainted. His Lectures on the Covenanters were addressed to popular audiences, and they are calculated to be exceedingly popular. . . . They have merits of their own; they are in passages very eloquent; they are full of graphic touches; they appeal with no small success to our S)-mpathies; and, though we cannot endorse the leading idea of the book, we must do it all honour as an advance upon previous ideas on the same subject."—Times. " This is an excellent little book, written in a large-hearted, earnest, pious, and thoroughly manly spirit " The style is forcible graphic, and robust; now and then perhaps a little stiff, sometimes pseudo- rhetorical, but, in general well suited to the subject These men, whatever be the reader's prepossessions, are really worth reading about. There was manhood in them."—Spectator.13 88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. Kev. A. L. E. Foote, author of " Incidents in the Life of our Saviour." Christianity viewed in some of its Leading- Aspects. Fcap., cloth, 3s. M, Lame Fleuky, Auteur de plusieurs ouvrages d'education. L'Histoire d'Angieterre racontee a la Jeu- nesse, augmentee d'uue table analilique. 18mo, cloth, 2s. 6d. L'Histoire de France, racontee a la Jeunesse. ISmo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Archibald Geikie of the Geological Survey of Great Britain. The Story of a Boulder, or Gleanings from the Note Book of a Field Geologist. Illustrated with wood- cuts. Fcap., cloth, OS. The Giants, the Knights, and the Princess Verbena. A Fairy Story with illustrations by Hunkil Phranc. 4to, boards, 2s. 6d. Eev. WiixiAM HaNiNA, LL.D., author of 'Memoirs of Thomas Chalmers, D.D., LL.D.' Wvcliffe and the Hu£ienots; or, Sketches of the ri.se of the Uefonnati<in in JGnf^liuid, and of llie Early Tli.slory of Protcslanti.sm in France. Fcap., cloth, .^s.EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 14 Homely Hints from the Fireside, by the aiithor of ' Little Tilings.' Fcap, cloth, 2s. "A collection of excellent counsel on everj'day subjects."—Couranl. " Many readers will be grateful for its advice, and delighted wilh its homeliness and pleasant gossip."—Scollish Press. "This liitle volume contains many 'lionaely hints' of the most truly valuable kind."—Falkirk Herald. " Some of the ' hints' will be found most acceptable to those who have to regulate tlie domestic economy of a household, whether large or small; and other parts of the book contain advice which cannot fail to be of service to most people."—Court Journnl. Miss Susan Hoknkr, translator of ' Colletas Naples.' A Century of Despotism in Naples and Sicily, 1759-1859. Fcap., cloth, 2s. Gd. Rev. George Lewis. The Doctrines of the Bible developed in the Facts of the Bible. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Little Ella and the Fire-King, and other Fairy Tales, by M. W., with Illustrations by Henry Warren. Second Edition. 16mo, cloth, 3s. 6d. Cloth Extra, gilt edges, 4s. Rev. Dr. M'Cosh and Dr. Dickie. Typical Forms and Special Ends in Creation. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. Memoirs of F^rancis L. Mackenzie; late of Trinity College, Cambi-idgc ; witli Noliccs of Henry Mac- kenzie, B.A., Scholiir of Trinity College, Cambridge. By Rev. Chakles Popiiam Miles, M.A., M.D., F.L.S. Fcap., cloth, 6s.88 PKINCES STREET, EDINBURGH, 15 Rev. Norman N'Leod, D.D, The Earnest Student; being Memorials of John Mackintosh. By the Eev. Norman M'Leod, D.D. 10th Edition, fcap., cloth, 6s. Deborah; or Christian Principles for Domes- tic Servants; with Extract Readings for the Fireside. Fcap., cloth, 3s. 6d. Cheap Edition, limp cloth, Is. John Gt. LIacvicar, D.D. Author of ' An Inquiry into Hutaan Nature,' &c. The Philosophy of the Beautiful. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. 6d. Hermann Meyer, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Zurich. Procrustes ante Portas. Why the Shoe Pinches. A contribution to Applied Anatomy. Translated from the German by John Stirling Craig, L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E. Fcap., sewed, 6d. Nuggets from the Oldest Diggings; or Re- searches in the Mosaic Creation. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. C. T. Perthes, Professor of Law at Bonn. Memoirs of Frederick Perthes; or Litcrar^^, Religious, and Political Life in Germany from 1789 to 1843. Crown 8vo, cloth, 66.EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 16 E. B. Eamsay, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.E., Dean of Edinburgh. Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character. 7th Edition. Fcap., cloth, 6s. A. Henky Rhind, F.S.A., &c. Egypt; its Climate, Character, and Resources us a Winter Resort. With an Appendix of Meteorological Notes. Fcap., cloth, 3s. R. M. Ballantyne. How Not to Do It. A Manual for the Awkward Squad; or, A Handbook of Directions, written for the instruction of Raw Recruits in our Rifle Volunteer Regiments. With lUustrations. Fcap., sewed, 6d. The Volunteer Levee; or, the Remarkable Experience of Ensign Sopht. Written and Illustrated by Himself. Edited by the Author of ' How. Not to do It.' Fcap. 8vo, sewed, Is. Henky Inglis, Author of the.'Briar of Threaves,' &c. Death Scenes of Scottish Martyrs. Square cloth, 6s. 6d. Cosmo Innes, Professor of History in the University of Edinburgh. Scotland in the Middle Ages. Sketches of Early Scotch History and Social Progress. With Mnps^88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURCill. 17 Illustrative of the Civil and Ecclesiastical Divisions in the Tenth and Thirteenth Centuries. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. "AH who wish to lenrn what early Scotland really wai3, will prize it highly."—Scotsman, January 7. " The students of the Edinburgh University have reason to be congra- tulated on the qualities of their Professor of History, and the general public ought to be thankful for this volume." . . . " More of real his- tory may here be learned in a few liours than from some more pretentious works in as many weeks; and, what is still better, ingenuous youth, if ingenuous indeed, will here take a noble enthusiasm, which will stimulate to long, laborious, and delightful research."—Dial, November 9. Concerning Some Scotch Surnames. 1 vol., small 4to, cloth antique, 5s. " We can safely recommend this volume to those who are interested in the subject."—Caledonian Mercury, October 26. "Those fond of etymological pursuits will find in it matter to interest them; and the general reader cannot open it without finding in it some- thing that will suit even his capricious taste."—Atlas, October 27. Instructive Picture Books. 3 vols., folio, boards, 10s. 6d. each. I. The Instructive Picture Book. A few Attractive Lessons from the Natural History of Animals. By Adam White, Assistant, Zoological Department, British Museum. With 68 folio coloured Plates. Fourth Edition, containing many new Illustrations by J. B., J. Stewart, and others. II. The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Vegetable World. By the Author of " The Heir of Redcliffe," " The Herb of the Field," &c. 62 folio coloured Plates, arranged by Robert M. Stark, Edinburgh. III. The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Geographical Distribution of Animals; or, The Natural History of the Quadrupeds which Characterize the Principal Divi.sions of the Globe. By M. H. H. .1. 60 folio coloured Illustrations. The New Picttu-e Book. Pictorial Lessons on Form, Comparison, ,ind Number, for Children under Soven Years of Age. With Explana- tions by Nicholas JJohny. 30 oblong folio coloured Illustrations.18 D. J. G. KuRR, Professor of Natural History in the Polytechnic Institution of Stuttgart. The Mineral Kingdom, with Coloured Illustra- tions of the most important Minerals, Eocks, and Petre- factions, folio, half-bound, 31s. 6d. John Euffini. Doctor Antonio; a Tale. Crown 8vo, cloth, 4s. Cheap Edition. Crown 8vo, boards, 28. 6d. Lorenzo Benoni; or, Passages in the Life of an Italian, with Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, boards, 2s. 6d. The Paragreens; or, a Visit to the Paris Universal Exhibition. With Illustrations by John Leech. Fcap. cloth, 4s. John Scarth. Twelve Years in China; the People, the Eebels, and the Mandarins, by a British Eesident. Second Thousand. With an Appendix. Crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. " Many of the descriptions of the country are highly interesting, and the author being an artist of considerable skill, had a great advantage among the Celestials in studying character and visiting the interior."— Sun, October 29th. John Selden. The Table Talk of John Selden, with Notes by David Irving, LL.D. Fcap., cloth, 3s. 6d.19 88 PRINCES STUEET, EDINBURGH. George Seton, Advocate, M.A., Oxon. Practical Analysis of the Acts relating to the Registration of Births, Deaths, and Marriages in Scotland. (17 and 18 Vict., c. 80; 18 Vict., c. 29; and 23 and 24 Vict, c. 85). With an Appendix, containing the Statute, Sheriff's Forms, Tables of Burghs, Sheriffdoms, Fees, Penalties, &c., and a copious Index. Fifth Edition. 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. Causes of Illegitimacy, particularly in Scot- land. With relative Appendices. Being a paper read in Glasgow at the Fourth Annual Meeting of the ' National Association for the Promotion of Social Science,' on the 28th of September 1860. 8vo, sewed, Is. The Skip Jack, or Wireworm, and the Slug. With notices of the Microscope, Barometer, and Thermo- meter for the use of Schools. Fcap., cloth limp, 9d. Dugald Stewart's Collected Works—Vols. I. to X. 8vo, cloth, each 12s. Vol. I.—Dissertation. Vols. II., III., and IV.—Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind. 3 vols. Vol. V.—Philosophical Essays. Vols. VI. and VII.—Philosophy of the Active and Moral Powers of Man. 2 vols. Vols. VIII. and IX.—Lectures on Political Economy. 2 vols. Vol. X.—Biographical Memoirs of Adam Smith, LL.D., William Robert- son, D.D., and Thomas Reid, D.D. To which is prefixed a Memoir of Dugald Stewart, with Selections from his Correspondence, by John Veltch, M.A. Supplementary Vol.—Translations of the Passages In Foreign Languages contained in the Collected Works; with General Index, fimlit.20 Tbe Right Reverend The Lord Bishoj) of London. Lossoiis for School Life; being Selections from Sermons preached in the Chapel of Rngby School during his Head Mastership. Fcap., cloth, .5s. History of Sir Thomas Thumb, by the author of ' The Heir of Redcliffe,' ' Heartsease,' ' Little Duke,' &c. &c. Illustrated by J. B. 4to, boards, 2s. Tragic Dramas from Scottish History. Heselrig—Wallace—James the First of Scotland. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. Memoir of George Wilson, M.D., F.E.S.E., Regius Professor of Technology in the University of Edin- burgh, and Director of the Industrial Museum of Scotland. By his Sister, Jessie Aitken Wilson. 8vo, cloth, 14s. " We lay down the book gratefully and lovinglj'. To read of such a life is refreshing, and strengthening, and inspiring. It is long since ive read .my bionraphy with equal pleasure; and assured of its general acceptance, we pass it on to our readers with our heartiest commenda- tion."—TAe 5co«t>A/"rcw.