OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 830 in reality they are distinct elements of the skull. In the higher Vertebrata they are con- solidated with the sphenoid, and have received the names of alas minores or apophyses ingrassii. Above these pass out the olfactory and beneath them the optic nerves, a circumstance which in itself sufficiently indicates their real nature. Sometimes, as in the Carp, they are united together inferiorly, so as to form a roof over the optic nerves. The cethmoid,Owen ( anteriorsphenoid,Cuv.\ 15,) so highly developed in the carnivorous Mammalia, is in the lower Vertebrata reduced to an extremely simple condition. In Fishes (Jig. 437) it is generally distinct enough, form- ing the posterior boundary of the interorbital septum, but sometimes it is quite wanting or represented by membrane. When present, it is generally placed upon the sphenoid, sending off processes to join sometimes the ingrassial bones, sometimes the alar bones, or occasionally to remain suspended in the interorbital mem- brane that unites all these parts. The cethmoid appears to be deficient throughout all tribes of Reptiles. In Birds it is recognizable as a bone of considerable size, separating the posterior parts of the orbits, which it assists in forming the two lateral facets that enter into the com- position of those cavities corresponding with the ossa plana, as they are called, of the human subject; but these are obviously only portions of the cethmoid itself. In the Mammalia, owing to the prodigious developement of the olfactory apparatus, the cethmoid becomes ex- tremely increased in size and importance, closing the anterior extremity of the cranial box, where it is perforated so as to present a central crest and cribriform plate, while inferiorly it has superadded to its body the superior tur- binated osseous lamella that enter so largely into the construction of the olfactory organ. The vomer (16) is in Fishes a large and im- portant bone, joined posteriorly to the sphenoid and above to the cethmoid, forming a vertical portion, on each side of which are situated the organs of smell. Inferiorly it forms part of the roof of the mouth, and is often armed with teeth. Throughout all the Vertebrata this portion of the skeleton holds an analogous position and is re- cognized with facility. In Frogs and Lizards the bone is double, but in Tortoises and the higher animals generally there is but a single vomer, which enters more or less into the composition of the nasal septum. The nasal bones, Owen; (atthmoid, Cuv.: 3) in Fishes are represented by a single bone impacted between the mid-frontals and the pre- frontals, and inferiorly joined to the vomer, forming a kind of septum between the nasal organs, and thus in position resemble some- what the vertical lamella of the cethmoid of Mammalia. Sometimes, as in the Eel and the Conger, the bones in question are inseparably united into one piece. In the higher animals the nasal bones are two in number, covering the nasal cavity like an arch. They are present in all Reptiles except the Chelonians, and in Birds and Mammals are easily recognizable from their position. The inferior turbinated bones, although in consequence of the construction of their nose quite wanting in Fishes, must not be omitted in enumerating the elements composing the skull in higher animals. In the humbler Rep- tiles, indeed, no traces of it are distinguishable; but when the olfactory apparatus becomes fully developed, as in the Mammalia, they form an important part of the nasal character, and are found of large size, connected inseparably with the bones that surround the nose. The bones of the face have been already considered as constituting a very complex framework, destined to lodge the organs of the principal senses or to constitute the instruments appropriated for the prehension or mastication of food. Seeing, however, that the same bone not unfrequently enters into the composition of several distinct cavities, we are unable to classify them further, and must therefore content our- selves with enumerating them seriatim as they occur to our notice. The maxillary (18) perform only a secondary office in forming the upper jaw of a Fish, being in the finny tribes generally destitute of teeth, which in them are principally implanted upon the intermaxillary (17) that form the greater portion of the upper jaw. The maxillary in Fishes is moveably articulated with the inter- maxillary, the vomer (16), and the palatine (22). Sometimes, as in the Herring and Lepisosteus, this bone is divided into several pieces. In Skates and Rays the whole upper jaw is made up of a single ossified mass, which bears the numerous rows of teeth attached to its under surface. But in all Reptiles, in Birds, and in Mam- malia the maxillary bones form the principal portion of the upper jaw, more particularly in the Mammalia, where the intermaxillary bones are comparatively of small size. In this portion of the upper jaw are fixed the grinding teeth, where such are present, a circumstance which in itself demands great strength in this part of the face; and, consequently, wherever power of jaw is required to be conferred, it is prin- cipally obtained by the increased developement of this element of the skeleton, which thus be- comes the largest and, as it were, the central bone of the whole fabric. The intermaxillary bones (17) form the prin- cipal part of the upper jaw in Fishes, and upon their shape depends that of the snout. Some- times these bones are flattened horizontally, or compressed laterally, or prolonged into a beak, their form being modified by circumstances in almost every genus. In the Chondropterygii, nevertheless, they are mere rudiments imbedded in the substance of the upper lip. They are persistent throughout all orders of Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals, until we arrive at the Quadrumana, where they become anchylosed with the maxillary, and in Man they are quite obliterated at an early period. The bones of the face in osseous Fishes are exceedingly numerous and irregular, neither is it easy to identify many of them as being at all analogous to those which normally make up the face, even of those Reptiles which present