421 MOTION. strokes made by the wings of insects as well as of birds during flight, it is necessary to take into the account the length of the arc in which they oscillate. The oscillations of the wings of insects are too rapid to be numbered by common observa- tion. The principles of optics,* acoustics, and dynamics have been employed to determine them during their flight. According to Bur- meister the pitch of the sound made during flight varies with the number of strokes made by the wings, although the production of the sound is perfectly independent of them.f If the number of strokes is synchronous with the number of vibrations which produce the sound, we can ascertain the number of their oscillations very readily; but we are not yet furnished with sufficient evidence that each stroke of the wing is coincident with one musical semi-vibration to determine this ques- tion with precision. According to the analysis made on the flight of birds, if the same data may be considered applicable, we shall see by Chabrier's investigations when all other things remain the same, that the number of strokes made by the wings of insects will vary as the square roots of the weight directly, and of the area of the wings inversely. In the Coleoptera, the ratio of the area of the wings to the weight of the insect is small in comparison with other orders. The elytra of the Coleoptera add to their weight and surface in passing through the air, without contributing either to the vertical elevation or horizontal velocity of the insect; on the contrary, as their surfaces are inclined to the axis of the body and the direction of motion, they retard the velocity of the beetle in moving against the wind. The centre of the forces lies posterior to the articulation of the wings, and as the angle of inclination of the elytra tends to ele- vate the head and depress the abdomen by its resistance to the wind, the axis of the body becomes inclined vertically during flight. In a stag beetle weighing forty grains, the area of each elytra measured 0.366364 of a square inch, and the true wings, calculated as the quarter of an ellipse, gave 0.6263565 of a square inch each, or 1.2527126in. for both. The same measured by a graduated scale gave 0.62240 in. each, which shows how nearly the form of the true wings approaches to a segment of perfect ellipse. Those Coleoptera in which the ratio of the surface of the wings is very small cannot fly against a strong wind. Olivier says, " None of this class can fly in opposition to the wind," but this assertion is opposed by Kirby, who states that the Melolonthae Iloplise fly in all directions; others, as the Cicindelce, take short flights, and may be easily marked down by the entomologist. The Cetoniae expand their wings in flight without elevating their elytra, as is done by other Coleoptera. The Dcrmaptera, though generally on their legs, take flight towards evening. The wings * See Nicholson's Journal, 4to. vol. iii. p. 38. t Remarks on the causes of sound produced by insects in flying, by Dr. H. Burmeistcr. Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, vol. i. p. 378, 1837. of the earwigs are ample; the nervures radiate from a common centre to the external margin of the wings, which they expand like a fan. According to Kay, the tegmina of the Orthop- tera assist the wings in flight. The Grillus domesticus flies with an undulatory motion like the woodpecker, alternately making a few strokes with the wings in order to give a pro- jectile velocity to the body upwards, and then folding the wings to descend on the opposite side of the vertex of a parabolic curve. Owing to the analogous structure of their wings, the Gryllus campestris and Gryllotalpa are capa- ble of using them in a similar manner. The Hemiptera employ their hemi-elytra to assist the wings in flying* By this means the area of the wing is increased, a greater surface is given to it for striking the air, the ratio of the surface of the wings to the weight of the body is augmented, the quantity of action and the number of vibrations necessary to sustain it in the air is diminished, and the power of flight is consequently increased. The Lcpidoptera are furnished with a far greater area of wing in proportion to the weight of their bodies than is observed in any other flying animal. The under wing approaches in figure to the quadrant of a circle, and in many species the two meet posteriorly and form a semicircle. The anterior and under wings are locked together during their descent so as to give them a synchronous action, and a compact surface to resist the air. The surfaces of the two wings on each side increase with the distances of their sections from the axes of motion; in the Morpho automedon (Jig. 220), in which the areas of the sections of the wings lying between the parallels 1, 2, 3, 4, drawn at equal distances from the axis of the body, will _ be seen to increase (the last one excepted) as the distances from the centre of motion of the wings increase; the effect of which is, to throw the centre of resistance to a greater distance from the axis of motion, so that the muscles of the wing act at a mechanical disadvantage; and the weight of the body being small in proportion to the area of the wing, the body oscillates considerably at each elevation and depression, and its flight is rendered un- steady. The surface of the anterior wing is less than that of the posterior, being as 2.08 : 2.4483471 square inches, and the sum of the surfaces of the four wings is =9.0566942 inches. As the solid contents of the body are very small when compared to the surface of the wings, we naturally conclude that the Morpho has pro- longed powers of suspension. The great mag- nitude of the wings of the Lepidoptera are generally in proportion to the weight of their bodies, and the force of their muscular system endows them with great powers of flight; but it is most frequently accomplished in a zig-zag path. In the Pontia brassicae the weight of the insect is found to be 1.525 gr.; the area of the anterior wing 0 6 square inch, the area * See Dr. Rogct's Bridgewatcr Treatise, third edition, vol. i. p. 313.