434 MOTION. organs with sufficient force to propel itself through the surrounding medium. The pro- gression of the Sat pa crislata is effected by drawing water into its body, at an opening si- tuated in the posterior segment of the mantle, where a valve (fig. 228 c) is placed to pre- Fig. 220. Salpa cristata. vent its returning by the same aperture ; the mantle having been distended by the water, contracts upon it, by which action it is ex- pelled at an opening situated at the side of the mouth (a); its progression is retrograde, or in the direction of a b, opposite to that of the fluid in b a. The larvae of some Dragon Flies, such as the Ashna and Libellula, draw in and expel the water alternately at the anus, which they occa- sionally lift out of the water, and project a small stream at a distance above the level of its surface: the hydrodynamic effect of these actions is to give a locomotive impulse to the centre of gravity in a direction opposite to that of the ejected fluid. The reaction of the water, which is equal to the action of the ejected stream, is not only sufficient to overcome the resistance of the surrounding medium and the inertia of the body of the animal, but also to drive it along. The velocity of the Syringo- grades is accelerated during the expulsion of the water, and retarded during its reception; consequently the motion is never uniform. The Vermiform animals are for the most part destitute of distinct locomotive organs, yet, owing to the flexibility of their lengthened and usually cylindrical bodies, they swim with great faci- lity. They glide by a series of lateral undu- latory movements of the body, with which they strike the water obliquely backwards, and with equal force on each side of the axis of motion, so that the force impressed on the water is trans- lated to the centre of gravity of the animal in an opposite direction forwards; the compo- sition of all the forces giving a resultant the di- rection of which coincides with the axis of motion. Many serpents whose habits are chiefly terres- trial, swim with the head elevated above the surface of the water; others glide entirely be- neath it. Some of the Entozoa, as the Tenia, and, among the Annelides, the Planariae, when immersed in warm water, swim by similar un- dulations of the body; the latter, however, with the ventral aspect upwards. In the Ophidian Hydrophyli, or water-snakes, the tail is flat- tened ; and its planes being directed vertically, give it the properties of a powerful oar, in striking the water by lateral oscillations. In many chetopod Annelides, the setae and cirrhi form numerous and complex external organs of progression. The Terebella has four rows of setae in tufts ; the dorsal row projecting in the horizontal, the ventral in the vertical plane. They extend along the whole of the elongated subquadrangular-shaped body. In the Eunice Gigantea, which grows to the length of more than ten feet, each ring is furnished with two lateral packets of bristles, and two cirrhi. In the Nereis nuntia the locomotive organs are complex and greatly multiplied. The cirrhi and seta? may propel the body forwards, in- dependently of those undulatory movements which are indispensable for the progression of the apodous Annelides. Aquatic insects.—The perfect insects swim like quadrupeds and birds, by the alternate flexion and extension of their legs. Amongst the aquatic insects the Dvtiscus is one of the best organized for swimming ; its figure resem- bling that of a boat, being calculated to glide through the water with little resistance. The posterior legs are greatly developed, and they are moved by powerful muscles performing the office of oars, and are the principal instruments used in swimming. Their movements forwards are made in a plane nearly horizontal. The haunches being fixed to the thorax, give firm- ness and precision to these legs, which do not differ materially from those of other Coleoptera, with the exception of the tarsi, which are much flattened, and present their broad surfaces to the water. They are furnished with rows of stiff' hairs, which bend when the leg is carried forwards, and become straight when its move- ment is vigorously reversed, thus increasing the Fig. 229. a The Dytiscus, from Struns-Durckheim, showing the various positions which the posterior legs take in swimming.