994 PISCES. pituitary body (f). These inferior lobes are generally of considerable size, of an oval or kidney shape, and sometimes, but rarely, con- tain ventricular cavities, which communicate with the third ventricle, and through it with the great ventricles contained in the " hollow lobes;" they furnish fibres of origin to the optic nerves, and it is from the fissure between them and the medulla oblongata that the nerves of the third pair take their origin. Fig. 528. Brain of Perch, lower surface. (After Cuvier.) Letters a, b, c, g, h, as in preceding figures; e, inferior lobes ; /, pituitary body ; i, swelling at com- mencement of olfactory nerve ; n, optic nerves ; o, olfactory ; p, q, r, s, t, encephalic nerves. The pituitary body (fig. 528, f) occupies its usual position on the base of the brain at the extremity of the infundibnlum; it is generally of large size in Fishes, and is often connected with membranous and vascular appendages of vaiious forms,—a circumstance which is, how- ever, most remarkable in the cartilaginous Fishes. Occasionally, as for example in the Lophius and the Haddock, the infundibulum is prolonged into a slender filament, and the pituitary body is removed very far forward ; but the uses of these parts are as problematical in Fishes as in the other classes of Vertebrata. The cerebellum (figs: 526, 527, a) in osseous Fishes is of considerable size, but consists of the median portion only, no lateral lobes being as yet developed, or at least they are only indi- cated by slight eminences. Its shape is gene- rally that of a blunted cone, the apex of which is bent backwards; but there are instances, as for example the Mackarel, in which it is di- rected forwards, and sometimes it extends so far forwards as to overlap all the rest of the en- cephalon. Owing to the deficiency of the la- teral lobes of the cerebellum there are of course no traces of a pons Varolii. Behind the cerebellum, on each side of the fourth ventricle;, and sometimes even covering that cavity, are certain supplementary lobes (fig. 527, g ) which would seem to be peculiar to Fishes, and which are very variable in their proportions, forms, and connections. In most osseous Fishes they consist of two protuber- ances or swellings of the sides of the medulla behind the cerebellum, which touch each other along the mesial line or are united by a com- missure. In the Cyprinidae their volume is so consi- derable that they cover the greater part of the medulla oblongata, and their sides are furrowed with transverse striae In the Grey Mullet they are also very large, and their surface is marked with tortuous sulci, giving the appearance of cerebral convolutions. It is, however, in the Triglae or Gurnards that these lobes are most largely developed, amounting in number to as many as five on each side, and occupying a space equal in length to all the rest of the encephalon, and extending backwards as far as the second vertebra. It is from the last of these lobes that the second pair of spinal nerves is given off, which in this genus supplies the free rays situated in front of the pectoral fins.* In the ehondropteryginous Fishes the struc- ture of the encephalon offers many remarkable peculiarities. Thus, in the Rays and Sharks the proportionate size of the olfactory lobes is enor- mous, and instead of simply having a commis- sural communication with each other, they are consolidated into one mass. The hemispheres enclose a capacious ventricle, but there are no distinct fibres visible upon its inner surface, neitlier are the representatives of the tubercula quadrigemina of osseous Fishes apparent. The cerebellum is of great relative size, but of very variable form in different species; and not unfrequently it is divided into laminae by deep transverse sulci. The supplementary lobes behind the cerebellum are represented by folds or cords of nervous matter, which are prolonged from each side of the posterior edge of the base of the cerebellum and run backwards along the margin of the fourth ventricle. The brain of the Tunny (Thynnus vulg. Cuv). is remarkable for the extent of the cere- bellum, and the complication of the internal tubercles. The olfactory nerves are small and oval. The hollow or cerebial lobes are of very great size, and nearly spherical, with a lateral fissure inferiorly. On opening them, instead of the tubercles generally met with in Fishes, there is found on each side a mass divided into three lobes, which are themselves grooved with a fissure, so that the whole resembles a cylinder or cord having six folds, twelve in all. The cerebellum is larger than the rest of the ence- phalon, and, arising from the medulla oblon- gata, curves forwards, overlaying both the hollow lobes and the olfactory lobes even as far as the anterior extremity of the latter, its breadth being little less than half its length. At the posterior part of its base there is on each side a rounded protuberance, different in character from those enlargements which are frequently met with in other Fishes at the commencement of the medulla oblongata. Nervous system.—The olfactory nerves (fig. 529) arise from the olfactory lobes of the brain, * The various names applied by different authors to the different parts described above are calculated to create great embarrassment and confusion. Thus, Haller in his ' Physiology,' and likewise in his ' Opera Minora,' calls the lobes (c,c) anterior olfac- tory tubercles, the lobes (e, e) inferior olfactory tu- bercles, the hollow lobes fb, b) optic thalamus, &c. M. Arsaki, in his thesis ' De cerebro et medulla spinali piscium,' calls the hollow lobes (b,b) tuber- cula quadrigemina, and regards the anterior lobes (e, c) as the representatives of the hemispheres. M. Weber, in his ' Anatomia comparata nervi sym- pathetic!,' whilst he recognizes the hollow lobes (b, b) as the cerebral hemispheres, regards the cerebellum (a) as the analogue of the tubercula quadrigemina, and the supplementary lobes (</,ff) at the commencement of the medulla oblongata as representing the cerebellum.