PERINEUM. 921 losing altogether its cylindrical shape. It will be readily understood that when such a dispo- sition prevails in a calculous subject, the rectum must undergo serious danger during lithotomy performed according to the lateral or bilateral methods, and that therefore the precaution .of emptying the bowel previous to these opera- tions is highly advisable. The relations of the perineal portion of the rectum deserve from the surgical anatomist his most attentive consideration. Anteriorly the inferior fundus of the bladder, together with the vesiculas seminales and vasa deferentia, come into contact with the rectum immediately beneath the line of reflection of the peritoneum; lower down the prostate gland rests upon the front of the rectum, to which it is very inti- mately connected, nothing but some cellular tissue intervening between them, whilst still lower down the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb are related to the rectum, though not immediately, for neither of those parts of the urinary apparatus is found to touch the parietes of the gut. The bulb of the urethra in the adult is usually situated about half an inch in front of the rectum and about one inch above the anus; the membranous portion of the urethra lies about ten lines anterior to the rectum, and rather more than an inch and a half above the anus, whilst the prostate gland is placed within one line of the anterior wall of the gut, and about two inches above the anus. These anterior relations of the rectum explain how the finger introduced into its cavity may assist the catheter in its passage along the urethra in the living subject; how by the same manoeuvre the surgeon obtains valuable infor- mation as to the state of the bladder and pros- tate gland in various morbid conditions of those organs; how, in sounding, he is able at times to raise up the calculus by his finger so as to bring it into contact with the instrument; how the bladder may be punctured from the rectum and the urine withdrawn by this route in certain cases of retention; how, acute inflammations and other diseases of the bladder and urethra or their appendages so frequently occasion mor- bid sympathies in the intestine, such as pro- lapsus, tenesmus, hemorrhoids, &c.; and above all, how great must be the danger to the bowel, and how urgent the necessity for protecting it during the lateral operation of lithotomy. Posteriorly a quantity of loose cellular tissue connects the lower part of the rectum to the sacrum and coccyx; it is there related, parti- cularly when distended, to the pyriformis and ischio-coccygeus muscles, and towards its anal extremity to some of the fibres of the levatores ani and the ano-coccygeal ligament. On either side the rectum gives insertion to a portion of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, which, though weak and cellular in that locality, nevertheless admits of being fairly traced to the walls of the gut; but the levatores ani muscles constitute the principal lateral rela- tions of the intestine. In their descent they cover its surface extensively, and form in great measure the partition between the bowel and the ischio-rectal fossa?. The perineal portion of the rectum affords in some respects a striking contrast to the upper part of the same intestine; being totally devoid of serous investment, it is more fixed and (except at the anus) more dilatable than the superior division of the bowel, and its con- nexions with the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, the ano-coccygeal ligament, the genito- urinary passages, and the middle tendinous point of the perineum, contribute to fix it still more firmly in its position. The coats of the rectum present certain pecu- liarities interesting to the surgical anatomist. Its muscular tunic is of uncommon strength, and consists of two very distinct layers ana- logous in many particulars to those of the corresponding strata in the oesophagus; the superficial layer is formed of highly developed longitudinal fibres, florid in colour (as con- trasted with those of the remainder of the large intestine), and which spread out so as to invest the whole circumference of the gut: the fibres of the deeper layer are circular, and acquire increased developement towards the anal extre- mity of the intestine, where they are continuous with the internal sphincter. The mucous mem- brane is remarkable for its thickness and vascu- larity and for the great laxity of its connexion with the other tissues of the gut: it adheres so loosely to the subjacent coat in the vicinity of the anus that it sometimes protrudes through that opening, and in this manner one form of prolapsus ani is produced. Upon the free surface of the mucous mem- brane a number of longitudinal folds run down to the immediate neighbourhood of the anus ; they are called the columns of the rectum, and converge slightly as they descend ; their number is variable though it seldom exceeds eight or ten, and between them inferiorly some trans- verse semilunar folds may be observed, of which the free concave margins are directed upwards. In these folds of the mucous membrane the physiologist recognises a provision to facilitate the distension of the gut, and to their presence some surgeons attribute the occurrence of cer- tain morbid conditions of the intestine. In addition to these folds, which are constant, others have likewise been described within the rectum; these latter were named by the late Dr. Houston " the valves of the rectum," and appear at times remarkably distinct. When present they are each of a semilunar shape, and formed by a duplicative of mucous mem- brane containing cellular tissue and a few muscular fibres between its folds. Each valve is attached by its convex margin to the walls of the gut, whilst its free edge is directed more or less inwards towards the cavity of the intestine. One of these valves is situated (according to Houston's statement) opposite to the base of the bladder, on the anterior wall of the gut and about three inches distant from the anus, whilst another is sometimes placed within one inch of the anal orifice. That projections from the parietes of the rectum, such as have been described by Houston, may be made apparent by a certain mode of preparation cannot be denied, but that they can