MEMBRANE—MENINGES—MICROSCOPE. 331 MEMBRANE, (in Anatomy,) Gr. pvnyt; Lat. Membrana; Fr. Membrane ; Germ, die Hunt. This term is commonly applied to designate those textures of the body which are disposed' or arranged as laminse, destined to cover organs, to line the interior of cavities, or either singly or by their application one over the other, to constitute the walls of canals or tubes. Expansion with very slight thickness is the main morphological characteristic of mem- branes in their ordinary sense. I do not intend here to give any classifica- tion of the membranes : the term is extensively used in descriptive as well as in general ana- tomy ; and anatomists differ materially as to the degrees within which they limit its meaning. Anatomists hitherto have been content to adopt the gross anatomy of the textures as the basis of their classification, a circumstance which has given rise to much error, as well as to great variety of opinion. Now, aided as we are by excellent microscopes, and by the light which they have thrown upon the minute anatomy of the tissues, we should only admit that classifi- cation which is based on an ultimate or even proximate anatomical analysis. As these points will be all fully treated of in the article Tissue, reference is made to it for the details respecting the membranes. (R. B. Todd.) MENINGES.— This word signifies mem- branes; it is specifically applied to those mem- branous expansions which cover and more or less protect the brain and spinal cord, and in this sense is best interpreted by the German word Hirnhaut. The term is in common use on the continent, but not so frequently em- ployed by British anatomists, although always understood by them in the sense above given. It appears to have been thus applied first by Galen, who distinguished pYjnyZ •na.yyrtfn, or the dura mater, and p.riny| htirrri, or the pia mater. The description of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord will be found in the article Nervous Centres. (R. B. Todd.) MICROSCOPE, (jLux§o?, small,and c-xowiw, to look at,) an instrument for aiding the eye in the examination of minute objects. Although a description of the structure and uses of this instrument cannot be considered as strictly belonging to a work like the present, yet the knowledge of them is so closely connected with its general objects that it has been deemed ad- visable to make it an object of special attention. The applications of this instrument to the pur- poses of the anatomist and physiologist are so numerous, that a whole treatise might easily be written upon them alone. We are not aware, until we come to think on the subject, how much of our knowledge of what takes place within the living body is dependent upon its revelations. To take a familiar illustration,— the capillary circulation might be, in some degree, guessed at by tracing the ramifications of the bloodvessels as far as they could be dis- cerned with the naked eye; but we should have known extremely little of it without the micro- scope. Our whole knowledge of the early processes of development in plants and animals is gained by the same assistance. Not only is much of that, which ranks as established ana- tomical or physiological truth, founded upon microscopic researches, but similar researches, which are being prosecuted at the present time, are yielding a harvest of discovery still richer in amount, whilst not less important in its cha- racter. We propose, in the present article, to take a general view of the principles, optical and me- chanical, which are concerned in the construc- tion of the microscope; and then to give an outline of the results of some of the most re- cent enquiries in which it has been profitably employed,—confining ourselves chiefly, how- ever, to those which concern the origin and formation of the principal organized structures. If it be thought that the former portion is too much extended, we have only to say, that we know of no single treatise to which we can refer our readers for a large part of the informa- tion which we desire to convey; and that we have therefore judged it desirable to make the article complete in itself. I. Optical principles governing the CONSTRUCTION OF MICROSCOPES. All microscopes, except those which operate by reflection (to be hereafter noticed), depend for their operation upon the influence of convex and concave lenses on the course of the rays of light passing through them. This influence is the result of the well-known laws of refraction —that a ray passing from a rare into a dense medium is refracted towards the perpendicular, and vice versa. When, therefore, a pencil of parallel rays passing through air impinges upon a convex surface of glass, the rays will be made Fig. 144. ■ , A . If ' G A B, parallel rays of light falling upon the convex surface F, B, G; D the centre, D B, D B, radii, which are the perpendiculars to the curved sur- face at the several points ; B C, course of the rays if uninterrupted ; B E, their course in con- sequence of the refraction they have undergone, converging to a focus at E. to converge, for they will be bent towards the centre of the circle, since the radius is the per- pendicular to each point of curvature. The central ray, as it coincides with the perpendi- cular, will undergo no refraction ; the others will be bent from their original course in an increasing degree in proportion as they fall at a distance from the centre of the lens ; and the effect upon the whole will be such, that they