PERITONEUM. 940 navel and falciform ligament of the livei-. From the last-named position we have before reached the anterior and posterior surfaces of the lesser omentum, the former by tracing the free surface over the left lobe, and the latter by tracing it over the right lobe, of the liver. From the sides of the falciform hepatic liga- ment, proceeding in each lateral direction, in a horizontal sectional line taken at the level of the foramen of Winslow, to the left we find the free peritoneal surface continuing, uninter- rupted by any folds, to the external surface of the gastro-splenic omentum in the left hypo- Fig. 489. Diagram representing a transverse seetinn of the human subject at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, i. e. through the foramen of Winslow. a, the stomach, its descending portion ; b, the spleen; c. the gall-duct and hepatic vessels ; d, the round ligament of the liver; e, the lesser omentum ; f, the gastro-splenic omentum ; g, the falciform ligament of the liver; h, the vena cava; i, the aorta ; k, k, the kidneys. The thick line represents the peritoneum. The space between the hepatic duct and vessels, c, and the vena cava, h, is the foramen of Winslow. Fig. 490. Diagram representing a transverse section o f a Lizard, showing the stomach, spleen, lesser omentum, gastro- splenic omentum, and falciform hepatic ligament, in t/ieir mesial or typical position. a, the stomach ; b, the spleen ; c, the gall-duct and hepatic vessels ; d, the round ligament of the liver ; e, the lesser omentum ; /, the gastro-splenic omentum ; g, the falciform ligament of the liver ; h, the aorta, &c. The thick line represents the peritoneum. There is here no foramen of Winslow. It will be seen by comparing these diagrams, that much of what seems so intricate in the human peritoneum results from a lateral displacement of an extremely simple arrangement, a displacement which attains its maximum in man, and is due, partly to the lungs being confined to the thorax, and partly to the great lateral, and small antero-postc- rior, measurement of the human figure. chondriac region; to the right we find it conti- nuing uninterrupted through the foramen of Winslow, covering its posterior boundary, to the internal surface of this same gastro-splenic omentum: to witness its continuity, however, up to the latter point, it is of course necessary to cut through the lesser omentum—in the human subject, but not in those animals which have no foramen of Winslow. ( Figs. 489, 490.) We have now examined the continuity of the peritoneum in all the main directions, and the mode in which it is maintained over the principal viscera and along the connecting- sheets with two free surfaces. There yet re- main for examination several folds and other remarkable arrangements of this membrane; the description of these is most conveniently deferred till we come to the consideration of our other propositions, when much that is at present wanting in order to render our proof of the continuity of the peritoneum throughout complete, will be supplied. The peritoneal cavity is one cavity, in the same sense as the whole of the interior of an hour-glass is one cavity; that is to say, it is two large cavities made one by being connected by an extremely narrow communicating neck. Supposing the whole of the peritoneal sac could be detached from the connections of its external surface and expanded, it would be a sac of exceedingly irregular figure, divided into two parts by an extremely narrow constriction. Omenta, mesenteries, and ligaments.— By these terms we understand the sheets with two free surfaces, formed by duplication of the peritoneum and adhesion of the surfaces there- by brought into apposition; to describe these is our second proposition, and to that we now pass. A parieto-visceral sheet is usually called a mesentery or a ligament; a sheet with two free surfaces passing from one viscus to another is called an omentum. The falciform ligament of the liver has already been fully described. We agree with Cruveilhier that its main use is to conduct the umbilical vein from the navel to the antero- posterior fissure of the liver. This, indeed, can hardly be called a use, especially in the adult; we would say rather that the existence of the falciform ligament necessarily results from the situation and course of the umbilical vein. It perhaps serves in some degree to retain the liver in situ, but it is not advanta- geously placed with regard to this office. The coronary ligament of the. liver is the name given to those portions of the peritoneum which leap across, so to speak, from the under surface of the diaphragm to the upper and posterior aspect of the liver. The anterior and posterior of these portions do not come in contact with one another in the middle, the liver being at that point in immediate contact with, and adherent to, the diaphragm; but towards each side the two layers gradually approach each other, and at length come in contact and adhere, and are prolonged as folds bearing another name. The coronary ligament fixes the liver to the diaphragm, or rather the