NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Matter.) 586 regards their physical properties; and, as ap- pears not unreasonable to conclude, capable of manifesting a distinct series of vital forces. If great strength and power of resistance be requisite, a particular form of animal matter (gelatine) is united with an earthy material to constitute bone; for the developement of strength, combined with elasticity or flexibility, this same kind of animal matter, or a modifi- cation of it, is again employed, containing none or a very slight proportion of earthy ma- terial, and forming the various kinds of cartilage and ligament; but for the play of the active powers of life—for the developement of living movements — whether in the performance of the nutritive functions, in growth and repro- duction, or in the display of muscular force and activity, two substances, the most complex in chemical constitution of any in the body, and possessing the greatest atomic weight, are made use of to form the structures, on which these remarkable phenomena depend, namely, muscle and nerve. These structures are com- posed respectively of fibrine and albumen ; they are organized in analogous forms, and by their mutual reactions they exhibit the mar- vellous effects which animal power is capable of producing. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISPOSITION AND COMPOSITION OF THE NERVOUS MAT- TER, THE NATURE OF NERVOUS ACTIONS, AND THE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous matter presents the singular peculiarity that it alone, of all the varied forms of animal texture, is directly influenced by the mental acts of animals. It is that part of the organism through the immediate agency of which mind operates upon body and body upon mind. Through this connexion with the psychical principle of the animal, sensation is produced, and volition is enabled to exercise its influence on muscular organs. And in the whole range of the mysterious phenomena, which the student of nature meets with, there is no- thing so inscrutable as the fact that the work- ings of the mind can disturb and impair the organization of the nervous matter ; or, on the other hand, that the disorganization of the ner- vous matter is capable of deranging mental manifestations. The existence of this remarkable and pe- culiar kind of organic matter is limited to the animal kingdom, and is therefore one of the characteristic features of animals as distin- guished from plants. It is obviously the pre- sence of a psychical agent controlling and di- recting certain bodily acts of animals, which has called into existence the particular appa- ratus which the nervous matter is employed to form. In the largest proportion of the animal king- dom, the nervous matter is so disposed or arranged as to form a system complete in itself, and distinct from, although connected with, the other textures and organs. This is called the NERVOUS SYSTEM—the deve- lopement of which has always a direct relation to the bodily organization and psychical endow- ments of the animal. The nervous matter is accumulated into masses, forming what are denominated cen- tres of nervous actions; and it is also deve- loped in the form of fibres, filaments, or mi- nute threads, which, when bound together, constitute the nerves. The latter are in- ternunciul in their office; they establish a communication between the nervous cen- tres and the various parts of the body, and vice versa; they conduct the impulses of the centres to the periphery, and carry the impres- sions made upon the peripheral nervous rami- fications to the centres. Nor are the nerves mere passive instruments in the performance of their functions ; but produce their proper effects through their susceptibility to undergo molecu- lar change under the influence of appropriate stimuli. The centres are the great sources of ner- vous power; they are the laboratories in which the nervous force is generated. The mind appears to be more immediately connected with one of them, which, pre-eminent on that account, exerts a certain control or influence over its fellows. In the centres there are two kinds of ner- vous matter, distinguished by certain anato- mical characters and by certain physiological properties and uses. The one is globular or vesicular in structure, grey in colour—dynamic as regards office. The other is fibrous, its fibres being tubes containing nervous matter; it is white in colour, and is devoted to act as a conductor of impulses to and from the grey matter. The white matter is that of which the nerves are composed, and the two kinds of matter do not occur together any where but in the nervous centres ; in fact, their co-existence in any part of the nervous system is sufficient to constitute that part a centre of nervous action. In the lowest creatures the existence of ner- vous matter is as yet problematical. It is supposed by some physiologists that it is dif- fused in a molecular form throughout the body of the animal, and the muscular tissue being likewise disposed in a similar way, the one may act upon the other at every point. Were this supposition true, it might be further con- jectured that, under such circumstances, only one kind of nervous matter, the dynamic, would exist; for as the office of the white nervous matter is chiefly to propagate or conduct to distant parts the changes which originate in the grey matter, the former would not be re- quired in animals, in which the elements of the grey matter are in contact with those of the other textures at every part of the body. The form in which nervous matter first de- velopes itself as a distinct tissue is in that of threads or cords, into the composition of which areolar tissue and bloodvessels generally enter. The class of animals in which this arrangement prevails has been designated by Mr. Owen Nematoneura; and, in many of these at least, the existence and the disposition of grey matter have yet to be ascertained. The nervous matter of both kinds is a sub-