INSTINCT. 26 the final cause cannot be substituted for the physical in physiology any more than in other sciences; and this is what was meant by the assertion of Bacon, that the doctrine of final causes is sterile. The object of physiology is to explain, not why, but how, the various func- tions of life are carried on. But when the laws of life are even partially ascertained, and their application understood, i. e. when physiolo- gical facts are referred to their physical causes, they afford many proofs of design and con- trivance, and so furnish a most important ad- dition to the general science of final causes. The science, relative to living bodies, which may truly be said to have its foundations laid in the study of final causes, is the science of Com- parative Anatomy, or of animal morphology; i. e. the exposition of the modifications which the general type of animal structure, and the plan of the functions carried on in that structure, undergo in the different classes of animals, and by means of which the objects of the animal cre- ation are accomplished by the laws of physio- logy throughout the whole extent of creation. These modifications are determined by the cir- cumstances in which animals are placed on the one hand, and by the purposes which they are to serve in the creation on the other. Every variation of structure has its use, in reference to one or other of these objects, and the branch of natural history which consists in the descrip- tion and arrangement of these varieties cannot be properly treated otherwise than by keeping their uses constantly in view. Thus, in regard to the function of digestion in the higher animals, its physiology, properly speaking, consists in reference to the laws of sensation, of instinct, of muscular motion, of secretion, as modified by changes in the condi- tion of the nervous system, of absorption, and of vital affinities and assimilation so far as they are known, by which the reception of aliment, and the changes on the aliment re- ceived into the body are effected; in this en- quiry our object is explanation, and however useful the observation of the purpose served by the organs of digestion may be, in suggesting enquiries or experiments by which the laws of which we are in quest may be made out, it is an interruption, not an assistance, to refer to these purposes, or to the importance of the function in the animal ceconomy, as if we thus obtained an explanation of the phenomena: but when these different laws of vital action are explained, their adaptation to the object in view is properly stated as a branch of the doc- trine of final causes. And when we trace the modifications which the organs and function of digestion undergo in the different tribes of ani- mals, in the carnivorous, the herbivorous, and the graminivorous,—in the quadruped, the bird, the fish, the insect, the polype, &c, and compare these with the provisions for assimila- tion and nutrition in vegetables, our object is merely description, and the arrangement by which we must be guided in this department of natural history is clearly laid down by atten- tion to the purposes which these modifications are intended to serve, as adapted to the circum- stances and to the offices of animals, i. e. to their final causes. As, in this science of morphology, or in tracing the varieties of " metamorphosed sym- metry," we do not seek to assign the physical causes of any phenomena, it is no abuse of the doctrine of final causes to assume it as the basis of our arrangements ; and that the prin- ciple of the unity of plan in the animal crea- tion, without the study of the conditions of existence of the different tribes of animals, by which it is modified, and of the instincts ac- companying each modification, is truly sterile, was clearly shewn by Cuvier, and has been ably illustrated by Mr. Whewell.* This observation is strictly applicable to the instincts of animals, considered as an essential element in their physiology. We obtain no explanation of the phenomena of instinct by referring to their use, or final cause; but the inferences drawn from the study of instincts, as to the existence and attributes of the Author of the universe, and the insight we thus acquire into the arrangements of the animal creation, are not, on that account, the less certain or the less important. In order to perceive the extent and import- ance of these inferences, it is necessary to con- sider, as has been stated above, not only the mutual adaptation of structure and instincts to each other, but also the adaptation of both, in the case of every animal, first, to the purposes of its own ceconomy, and secondly, to the purposes which it is fitted to serve in the general ceconomy of nature. Assuming, as we may safely do, that one great object, if not the most essential object, of all the arrangements of organized beings is to secure the greatest possible amount of sen- tient enjoyment throughout the world, the varying instincts and powers by which animals provide themselves with food will appear on consideration to be better adapted to the attain- ment of this end than they could have been on any other plan, consistently with the general laws, that animal enjoyment depends on the maintenance of organized animal structure, and this on the continual appropriation and assimi- lation of previously organized matter. The different races of animals are widely diffused over the globe by the powers which have been granted them of indefinite reproduction. Those of them which are immediately dependent on vegetables for subsistence are naturally limited by the extent of surface over which vegetation is spread ; and when this limit has been at- tained, the only expedient that can increase the number of animals (and it may be added, one which at the same time varies and multiplies the kinds of animal enjoyments) is to make animals prey on one another, either in the living or dead state. " Such is the command given," says Dr. Roger, " to countless hosts of living beings which people the vast expanse of ocean; to unnumbered tribes of insects which every spot of earth discloses; to the greater number of the feathered race, and also to a * lb. p. 472, et seq. ,