27 INSTINCT. more restricted order of terrestrial animals. To many has the commission been given to ravage and slaughter by open violence ; others are taught more insidious, though not less certain arts of destruction ; and some appear to be created chiefly for the purpose of quickly clearing the earth of all decomposing animal or vegetable materials (e. g. among the larger beasts of prey, the hyena, the jackall, the crow, and the vulture; among marine animals the Crustacea and nume- rous mollusca, and among the lower orders, innumerable tribes of insects.) " That a large portion of evil is the direct consequence of this system of extensive war- fare, it is in vain to deny. But although our sensibility may revolt at the wide scene of car- nage, our more sober judgment should place in the other scale the great preponderating amount of gratification which is the result. We must take into account the vast accession that accrues to the mass of animal enjoyment from the ex- ercise of those powers and faculties which are called forth by this state of constant activity; and when this consideration is combined with that of the immense multiplication of life, which is admissible on this system alone, we shall find ample reason for acknowledging the wisdom and benevolent intentions of the Crea- tor, who, for the sake of a vastly superior good, has permitted the existence of a minor evil." * This consideration is forcibly stated by Mr. Kirby in relation to one very numerous class of animals. " The object of the creation of the Arachnidans seems to have been to assist in keeping within due bounds the insect popula- tion of the globe. The members of this great and interesting class are so given to multiply beyond all bounds, that were it not for the various animals that are directed by the law of their Creator to make them their food, the whole creation, at least the organized part of it, would suffer great injury, if not total destruc- tion, from the myriad forms that would invest the face of universal nature with a living veil of animal and plant devourers. To prevent this sad catastrophe, it was given in charge to the spiders, to set traps every where, and to weave their pensile toils from branch to branch and from tree to tree, and even to dive beneath the waters." " The Scorpions and other Pedipalps are found only in warm climates, where they are often very numerous. Insects multiply be- yond conception in such climates, and unless Providence had reinforced his army of insecti- vorous animals, it would have been impossible to exist in tropical regions. The animals we are speaking of not only destroy all kinds of beetles, grasshoppers, and other insects, but also their larvse and eggs."f Without going into further details as to the adaptation of the instincts and powers of animals to their office in the world, we may remark, that there are two peculiarities attend- ing many of the phenomena of Instinct, which make them perhaps more important than any others, as indications of Design in the universe. * Bridgewater Treatise, vol. i. p. 46. t Bridgewater Treatise, vol. ii. p. 302. 1. The evidence of design and of intellect which is drawn from the instinctive actions of animals, is precisely similar to, and comes into strict comparison with, that by which each of us is informed of the mental qualities, and even of the mental existence of every human being except himself. What evidence have we of the existence of reason in any of our fellow-men? Only this, that their actions and their words, which are a set of definite muscular actions, appear obviously to be directed to certain ends, and fitted for the attainment of these ends. Therefore, we say, they indicate design or con- trivance, i. e. reason or understanding, in the agents. The adaptation of means to ends is the indication of intellect, to which we yield practical assent every hour of our lives, and it would be a proof of deficiency of our own in- tellect if we failed to do so. Now, when we survey many of the instincts of animals, espe- cially many of those which are directed to the preservation of their lives or the reproduction of their species,—when we see birds of all kinds building nests for their future progeny, and afterwards vivifying their eggs by incuba- tion,—the salmon ascending rivers to deposit their eggs in contact with the atmosphere,—• beavers constructing their houses,—bees or ants piling together their cells and collecting their stores,—the migratory birds repairing to warm climates before winter,—the reptiles excavating their winter retreats,— the squirrel, the dor- mouse, or the pika, laying up their winter store of provisions,—the snail closing its shell and se- curing its magazine of air for the return of spring, —the spider spinning its web, and preparing its cell and trap-door,—the ant-lion digging his pit- fall,—the fishing-frog spreading his lines,-—the camel storing his stomach with water for con- sumption in the desert,—the pelican filling her pouch with food for her young, and an infinity of other contrivances which the organs of ani- mals enable them to execute, which they do execute day after day and year after year with perfect precision, and without which they could neither maintain their own existence nor perpe- tuate their species; it is plain that we are con- templating a set of living muscular actions, equally adapted to certain definite ends, and equally efficient for the attainment of those ends, as the words or actions of any human being; and we cannot, without obvious and gross inconsistency, decline to draw from them the same inference that we habitually deduce from the adaptation of means to ends by the muscular actions of human beings. And if we are satisfied by the considerations stated in the beginning of this paper, and, in the case of our own instinctive propensities, by the evidence of our own consciousness, that the reason and intelligence, and anticipation of consequences, which are concerned in, and may be inferred from, these instinctive actions of animals, are not the mental attributes of the animals them- selves, we have no resource but to attribute their mental qualities to a superior Being, who gave to the first individual of each species of animals, and perpetuated to each race, its organic structure, its sensations, its muscular