MOTION. 408 are swimming, flying, crawling, climbing, leaping, running, walking, &c. The con- sideration of these diversified methods of progression involves the theory of the mo- tion of bodies in general, of the lever, the pulley, the centre of gravity, specific gravity, and the resistance of fluids, &c.; and, as we shall have occasion for constant refer- ence to the mechanical principles connected with these subjects, they will be first dis- cussed; but for the convenience of those who are unacquainted with the algebraic method of computation and analysis, the latter will generally be separated from the text. Fundamental Axioms. — First, every body continues in a state of rest or of uniform mo- tion in a right line until a change is effected by the agency of some mechanical force. Secondly, any change effected in the quiescence or mo- tion of a body is in the direction of the force impressed, and is proportional to it in quantity. Thirdly, reaction is always equal and con- trary to action, or the mutual actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal and in opposite directions. Thus if M (fig. 203) be a particle of matter free to move in any direction, and if the lines MA, MB, represent the intensity of two forces Fig. 203. M -A B acting on it in the direction MC, the particle M will move towards C by the combined action of the two forces, and it will require a force in the direction of CM, equal to MA+ MB to keep it in a state of rest: but if MA and MB (Jig- 204) represent the intensities and directions of two forces acting on the par- ticle M in opposite directions, if MA be Fig. 204. greater than MB, the particle M will be moved towards A by the difference of these two forces, and it will require a force equal to that difference to keep it at rest. The composition and resolution of forces.— In the composition of forces it is proposed to find the resultant, arising from any number or system of forces acting upon a given point. The resolution of forces, which is the converse of the former process, consists in discovering what forces acting in given directions would com- bine to produce a given resultant: Thus, if there be two forces F F' (Jig. 205), whose directions and magnitudes are represented by F N, F' N, and if FR, F'R be drawn respectively parallel to F'N, FN, then by the composition of forces we find the magnitude and direction of the equivalent or resultant of these two forces to be RN, and conversely it may be resolved into a pair of forces as RF, RF' represented by the adjacent sides of any parallelogram, of Fig. 205. which RN is the diagonal, and consequently into an indefinite number of such pairs.* This construction is called the parallelogram of forces. The resultant of any number of forces meeting in a common point may be ascertained thus: first, let the resultant of any two forces be found as before, and substitute this one force for the two components pro- ducing it; then combine this new force with one of the remaining forces, and continue this process until all the forces are reduced to a single force, which is the resultant sought. The following geometrical solution will render the subject more apparent: let P, P', P", &c. (Jig. 206) represent a number of forces meeting in the common point A, and let A P, A P', A P" be proportional to these forces respectively : through P draw PR equal and parallel to AP', and through R draw It It' equal and parallel to AP", and through R'draw R'It" equal and parallel to A P'"; join A It", which represents the resultant of the four forces A P, AP', AP", AP"'. A similar opera- tion will serve for any number of forces. This figure is denominated the pohj- C gon of forces. If the directions of three forces are rectangular, and in dif- ferent planes, the resultant may be found as follows: let PC, PC, PC", (fig. 207) be the intensities and directions of three forces, complete the parallelopiped BD; then the forces PC, PC have P r for an equivalent, therefore P r may be substituted for these two forces; and by compounding the forces PC", P r, we get PR the diagonal of the parallelo- piped BD r for an equivalent to the three forces. This construction is called the paralltlopipedon of forces.f An equilibrium cannot subsist be- iB tween any two forces acting upon a point of matter, if the lines represent- ing the directions of the forces be inclined to each other at any angle; but a third force, equivalent to their resultant and in an oppo- • Vide Gregory, vol. iii. ch. ii. p. 23. t From the same construction the resultant of a system of forces maybe found, disposed in different planes by the method of rectangular co-ordinates: let P C = x, PC =y, P C" = z, (fig. 207), by the 47 Euc. Lib. I. we have Pr2 = PCl+ Cr2 = x2 + y2, and Pll!=Pr! + )'R! = x2 + 2/2 4" z 2> whence the resultant PR = v/ x2+y2 -+- z2. The position of the resultant is thus determined; let r, r', r" denote the un- known angles formed by the direction of the re- sultant with each of the co-ordinates, and R cos. r, R cos. R cos. r" will represent the equivalents of the resultant in the several directionsot theaxes, hence we have R cos. r = x, R cos. r ~ y, R cos r" = z, . •• Cos. r = u' cos. r' _ V cos. r = b '