790 ORBIT. on certain occasions, to cause a relaxation of the muscle to which it goes, the eye-ball must be then rolled upwards."* Sir C. Bell adduces no proof that the involun- tary movements which he mentions are performed by the oblique muscles; on the contrary they may all be effected by the straight muscles. The fact that these movements are involuntary is no argument against their being produced by muscles, which under ordinary circumstances are strictly voluntary. Thus, Sir C. Bell says, when the eye is exposed and irritated, the cornea is directed upwards to a greater extent than can be done by a voluntary effort. This probably is the case, but we need not have recourse to the oblique muscles in order to explain it. Under the influence of the irri- tation applied to the eye the superior rectus contracts violently in order to elevate the cornea beneath the upper lid, and thus to remove it from danger; precisely in the same manner under the irritating influence of strumous ophthalmia the orbicularis muscle contracts with a spasmodic force much exceeding that of any voluntary contraction of that muscle. Both oblique muscles have the striated struc- ture of voluntary muscles, and the inferior oblique receives a branch from the third nerve, all the other muscles supplied by which are known to be voluntary in their action. We may, therefore, dismiss the idea that the ob- lique muscles are specially concerned in pro- ducing the involuntary movements of the eye. Further, it is our firm conviction that the oblique muscles are in no way concerned in circumduction of the eye-ball; that they nei- ther abduct nor adduct, neither raise nor depress the cornea, nor do they produce any of the in- termediate movements. The following are the circumstances which appear to us to favour this conviction. 1st. Both oblique muscles pass outwards almost at right angles with the recti muscles, and are inserted close upon a line intermediate between the anterior and pos- terior half of the eye-ball: this direction and insertion are evidently most unfavourable for the production of any of the above-mentioned movements. 2d. Those who assert that the oblique muscles have the power of circum- ducting the eye make the most contradictory statements as to the direction which the eye assumes under their influence. These opposite statements are sufficiently accounted for when we consider that they are founded on the re- sults of traction on the oblique muscles after death, when the fat and other parts in the orbit have become firm and unyielding, and the steadying influence arising from the antagonism of the other muscles has ceased. 3d. The recti muscles are of themselves capable of cir- cumducting the cornea in all directions; this is evident from their direction and insertion, and was proved by Sir C. Bell's experiments * See Sir C. Bell on the Nervous System, p. 177. This supposition appears to us as unphilosophical as the old theory of Phlogiston, which, in order to explain the fact of a body becoming heavier when deprived of this imaginary agent, attributed to phlogiston a property of lightness. above-mentioned. 4th. There is an important movement of the eye-ball which can be effected by no other than the oblique muscles, and for the production of which in all probability these muscles are provided: the movement to which we refer is rotation of the eye upon its antero- posterior axis. The true use of these muscles we believe to have been pointed out by John Hunter in a paper on the use of the oblique muscles, in his " Observations on certain Parts qf the Animal Economy.''1 He first explains that for perfect vision it is essential that when we are examining an object, any motion of the object or of our own bodies should be so counter- acted by the movements of the eye-ball that the image of the object may be kept on the same point of the retina, and not be allowed to move over its surface. We have a familiar illustration of this when we keep our eyes motionless and fixed on the ground, while moving rapidly in a carriage; the surface of the road appears confused and the stones ar- ranged in lines, as their images pass rapidly over the retina: it is only when we allow the eye to follow these objects that we have a dis- tinct perception of any of them. Hunter then goes on to explain the use of the oblique muscles. " To prevent any progressive motion of the object over the retina of the eye, either from the motion of the object itself, or of the head in some motions of that part, the straight muscles are provided, as has been explained ; but the effect? which would arise from some other motion of the head, as from shoulder to shoulder,* cannot be corrected by the action of the straight muscles, therefore the oblique muscles are provided. Thus, when we look at an object and at the same time move our head to either shoulder, it is moving in the arch of a circle whose centre is the neck, and, of course, the eyes would have the same quan- tity of motion on this axis if the oblique mus- cles did not fix them upon the object. When the head is moved towards the right shoulder the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts, and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same effect." If we again consider the direction and inser- tion of the oblique muscles, it is evident that they are intended for the office which Hunter has assigned them. Passing outwards, one above, the other below, in a direction almost at right angles with the antero-posterior axis of the eye-ball to their insertion near its middle, their action must obviously be to rotate the eye upon that axis. The reason of their obli- quity probably is that their direction backwards as well as outwards, by enabling them to anta- gonise the straight muscles, more certainly se- * The motion here meant is that which is ef- fected by flexion of the neck laterally, so as to ap- proximate the ear to the shoulder, not that move- ment which takes place between the first and se- cond cervical vertebrae.