225 LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. Fig. 53. The thoracic duct and right lymphatic trunk. ( After Mascagni.) a, Thoracic duct. b, The right lymphatic trunk. c, The trunk of the cervical lymphatics entering separately the internal jugular vein. s, Subclavian vein. Internal jugular vein. », Vena azygos. tinum, having; the aorta to its left, the vena azygos to its right, and the oesophagus in front. In this position it ascends as high as the fourth or third dorsal vertebra, at which level, con- tinuing its course upwards, it turns from right to left, passing behind the descending portion of the arch of the aorta, above which it ap- pears a little external to the root of the left subclavian artery, from whence continuing to ascend it passes between the latter and the left common carotid artery, lying on the longus colli muscle; it now mounts into the cervical region in front of the vertebral artery and vein to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, opposite to which it begins to form a curve, first forwards and outwards, then down- wards and inwards, striding over the subclavian artery to reach the angle of union between the subclavian and internal jugular veins, at which point it empties itself into the venous system either by one or more branches. The thoracic duct is not uniform in diameter throughout its course ; besides the occasional dilatation at its commencement, it generally presents another on the fourth dorsal vertebra just below its passage behind the descending thoracic aorta. Its narrowest part usually cor- responds to the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. The duct is frequently tortuous and rarely single throughout. It often splits into two or more branches, which after a longer or shorter course reunite; this division and reunion may be two or three times repeated, and it may ul- timately terminate by two or three branches instead of one, VOL. III. The principal irregularities in the arrange- ment of the thoracic duct, which have been recorded by anatomists, are— a double duct, one terminating in the left, the other in the right side of the neck ; a bifurcation of the duct at a higher or lower level, one branch terminating in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side, the other emptying itself either into the corresponding point on the right side or joining the right lymphatic trunk, close to its termination; a single trunk terminating altogether on the right side of the conflux of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, in which case a short lym- phatic trunk is found on the left side similar to that which usually exists on the right, con- stituting a partial lateral inversion or trans- position confined to the trunks of the lymphatic system. Besides the lymphatics of the lower extre- mities and the lacteals, the thoracic duct re- ceives directly or indirectly the lymphatics of the remaining abdominal viscera (except a few from the right lobe of the liver), those from the exterior and interior of the lower half of the trunk ; also the lymphatics of the left upper extremity, and left side of the head and neck, those from the left lung, the left side of the heart, and from the exterior and interior of the left upper half of the body. The right lymphatic trunk nearly equals the thoracic duct in diameter; it is, however, not more than half an inch in length. Its situation is in the neck at the level of the lower edge of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it will be found lying upon of the subclavian vessels close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, and opposite to the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, at which point it termi- nates in the venous system. The right lymphatic trunk receives the lym- phatics of the right upper extremity and of the right side of the head ar d neck, those from the right lung and right side of the heart, some few from the right lobe of the liver, and from the exterior and interior of the right upper half of the body. Some of the principal branches which ordi- narily empty themselves into the right lym- phatic Irunk occasionally terminate separately in the internal jugular or subclavian veins close to their junction. When these vessels all enter the veins separately, then the right lymphatic trunk is said to be deficient. Having described the position of the trunks of the lymphatic system as well as the situa- tions of the conglobate glands in the various parts of the body, I now proceed to trace the vessels themselves. I shall commence with the description of the lymphatics of the lower extremities, as being the most remote from the trunks of the system. They are divided, as in all other parts of the body, into a superficial and deep-seated set, which latter accompany the principal bloodves- sels. They are associated successively with the digital arteries, the internal, external plantar, and dorsal arteries of the foot; in the leg with the anterior, posterior tibial, and fibular vessels.