722 NINTH PAIR OF NERVES. of the omo-hyoid muscle, in the substance of which it ramifies. Plexus.—Immediately below the tendon of the omo-hyoid, the descendens noni, uniting with branches given off by the second and third cervical nerves, forms a nervous arch, the convexity of which looks downwards and for- wards. This plexus lies under cover of the sterno-mastoid, and in front of the jugular vein. Sterno-hyoid and thyroid branches.—From the convexity of the arch formed by this plexus two or sometimes more nerves proceed down- wards and inwards, and ramifying on the super- ficial surface of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, are distributed to them. Cardiac branch.—Meckel states, that on the left side particularly he has been able to trace a branch from this plexus into the thorax along the pericardium as far as the heart. The cervi- calis descendens is observed sometimes to vary from the above description, in its course down the neck, and in its relation to the great vessels; for, instead of lying anterior and external to the sheath, it is occasionally found to pass down within the sheath, and sometimes even behind it. I have also seen it pass for a short dis- tance within the sheath in the upper part of its course, becoming superficial about the centre of the neck, and then running down in front of the sheath in the usual manner. These varieties in the course and relations of this nerve are not, however, very commonly met with. * Thyro-hyoid branch.—The next branch given off by the ninth pair is where the nerve is passing under the tendon of the digastric, a little above the cornn of the os hyoides. Here it gives off a considerable branch named thyro- hyoid, from its distribution. This nerve passes from its origin downwards and inwards, cross- ing the lingual artery, to which it lies super- ficial, and is distributed to the thyro-hyoid muscle. From the origin of the thyro-hyoid branch the ninth nerve passes inwards between the hyoglossus and mylo-hyoid muscles, and at the anterior edge of the hyoglossus it plunges into the genio-hyoglossus, in the substance of which its terminating branches ramify. In this course the ninth nerve supplies filaments to the mylo- hyoid, the hyoglossus, the genio-hyoid, genio- hyoglossus, and lingualis. In the substance of the genio-hyoglossus the branches of the ninth nerve form distinct anas- tomoses with brandies of the fifth (the gusta- tory); with this nerve the branches of the ninth form nervous loops or arches, the con- vexities of which look forwards, and from which branches pass off which may be traced to the mucous membrane of the tongue. There can be little doubt that these nerves are to be con- sidered as compound, containing filaments de- rived both from the ninth and fifth pair. Most anatomists state, that the ultimate branches of the ninth can be traced no further than the structure of the muscles which enter into the formation of the tongue, and this appears to be true with respect to the branches which do not anastomose with the fifth pair; but it is more than probable, although difficult to demon- strate, that from the anastomosis spoken of above, a nerve, composed of filaments both of the ninth and fifth, proceeds, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue. Comparative anatomy.—It has been asserted by Professor Mayer, that in the ox and some other Mammalia he has discovered a small posterior root to the ninth nerve, having on it a ganglion; to the investigation of this I have paid particular attention. I have repeatedly and with care sought for this posterior root and ganglion in the ox, and have never been able to satisfy myself as to the existence of a true posterior root to this nerve. The anatomy, however, of this part in the ox is extremely interesting, and when examined may, perhaps, explain Mayer's opinion. In the dissections which I have made of the ninth pair in the ox, the nerve was found to arise in the depression between the corpus olivare and pyramidale by several delicate roots, in a manner very similar to what is ob- served in the human subject; these roots uni- formly formed two bundles, which perforated the dura mater separately, before doing which, however, the most inferior of these two bundles received a twig, which at first sight appeared to be given off by the spinal accessory; but, upon further and careful dissection, this twig was found not to, come from the spinal acces- sory, but to arise by a number of distinct roots from the side of the medulla spinalis, anterior to the roots of the spinal accessory, in front of and distinct from which it passed up into the cranium, and joined the inferior of the two bundles, which formedjhe origins of the ninth, and uniting with this passed out through the anterior condyloid foramen. When this nerve was cleansed, the pia mater and coagulated blood removed, which always loads these parts in the slaughtered ox, no en- largement or any thing resembling a ganglion could be discovered on its course. This nerve cannot be considered a posterior root to the ninth pair, for its origin from the medulla is anterior to that of the spinal accessory ; and I am inclined to think that this nerve in the ox holds the same relation to the ninth that the spinal accessory does to the eighth. Can this be what Mayer supposes to be a posterior root to the ninth ? Winslow speaks of a communication be- tween the spinal accessory and ninth nerve within the cranium, the existence of which in the human subject is described by Scarpa and Meckel ;* I have never been able to trace any such communication in man. On tracing the ninth nerve in the ox through the anterior condyloid canal, it was found to be united into one trunk, and enveloped with a strong neurilemma; nor could any ganglion be detected on the nerve in this part of its course. In Birds, the ninth nerve is found to commu- * See Manuel d'Anatomie, Meckel, vol. iii. p. 59.