ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 11.5 an exact and adequate description of the pa- thology of this organ, may probably find it ne- cessary to bespeak a very considerable degree of indulgence. Accustomed to consider laryngeal disease practically, and more particularly with refe- rence to operation, I find it difficult to bind myself down to mere pathological arrangement, or to attempt a satisfactory classification. True, like other organs, the larynx is composed of different structures, in each of which disease will assume the character peculiar to itself, and exhibit the appropriate appearances in an exa- mination after death, but it rarely happens that morbid actions are so limited in extent, as to exist and produce their proper results in one tissue without the participation more or less of the others. This will produce confusion, and render it a matter of difficulty to connect symp- toms with the existing pathological conditions that occasion them, and may be adduced as an objection to any attempt at arrangement founded upon structure alone: yet there really can be no classification altogether exempt from the same or a similar observation, and there- fore 1 shall adopt this one as having the merit of the greatest simplicity. Following this view then, I find the larynx to be composed of the following structures, viz.:— 1. Mucous membrane, exhibiting all the va- rieties of inflammation that are observed in that tissue when situated in other organs. Thus inflammation here may be acute or chronic, phlegmonous or erysipelatous, idiopathic or symptomatic, and attended by fever of a ty- phoid or an inflammatory type. And these varieties producing different effects or results. Thus we have examples of acute idiopathic in- flammation with fever of a sthenic kind in the croup of children, producing the adventitious membrane, and in the laryngitis of adults, that terminates so frequently in oedema; and of the same local disease with asthenic fever in the diphtherite and in erysipelas: whilst accident furnishes numerous instances of the results of symptomatic inflammation in the consequences of burns, scalds, penetrating wounds, and the swallowing of caustic poisons. As happens so constantly in other structures, chronic in- flammation is here best known by the changes it induces, and furnishes us with abundant specimens of hypertrophy or thickening of the membrane, and of the different forms of ul- ceration. 2. Submucous tissue, which is the seat of cedematous effusions, and of the sloushy and pu- trid matter produced by diffuse inflammation. 3. Cartilage, in which we remark great and important varieties of disease, such as inflam- mation, ulceration, mortification, degeneration into an earthy unorganized material, atrophy, hypertrophy, and some alterations of shape and structure probably depending on scrofula or other constitutional taint. 4. Muscle, the seat of those spasmodic ac- tions so frequent and so perilous in larvngeal affections, and perhaps occasionally of gout and rheumatism also. .5. Ligaments. I know not whether disease ever originates in these structures, but there can be no doubt that they are sometimes removed by ulceration, and there is reason to believe that great inconvenience and even 'danger may be occasioned by a preternatural relaxation of some of them. 1. Acute inflammation of the mucous mem- brane is alwavs in the first instance attended by a change of colour more or less intense ac- cording to its situation, being comparatively pale where it is closely attached to a subjacent cartilage, but of a deep and concentrated red tint, verging on purple, where it is more loosely connected by the intervention of cellular tissue or muscle. The membrane is also swollen, soft and pulpy, these characters being likewise influenced by the nature of its connection to subjacent parts, and I believe the usual symptom of inflammation, "pain," is not ab- sent, although the mental agony attendant on obstructed respiration renders this a secondary consideration to the patient: certainly in the laryngitis of the adult, pressure on the pomum Adami is very sensibly felt. In connexion with these changes the functions of the organ are interrupted and impaired. The usual secretion of the membrane is diminished in quantity, or perhaps ceases altogether, and hence the sen- satiou of dryness or huskiness in the throat, and the peculiar solitary ringing cough that uniformly is present. The voice is also in- jured, beinsc occasionally nearly if not altose- ther lost, and there is difficulty of breathing accompanied by a harsh stridulous sound ; this latter being caused by the mechanical obstruc- tion to the passage of air produced either by tumefaction or by spasm. Having continued a given time,—and the first stage of inflammation of the larynx if very acute is usually but short,— certain results or effects are developed, which, differing in the child and the adult, require a brief separate notice for each. The acute laryngitis of the child, or croup, although generally commencing in the larynx alone, and sometimes altogether confined to it, is by no means uniformly so : on the contrary, it not only may commence in or extend to the trachea, but possibly have its origin in the bronchial cells, and pass thence upwards along the tubes. It may also perhaps not be strictly correct to arrange croup amongst the diseases that are preceded or accompanied by inflam- matory fever, for occasionally it makes its at- tack without any previous warning whatever, and a child that had retired in apparently per- fect health may arouse and alarm its attendants in the middle of the night with the sounds of that dry, harsh, and incessant cough, and that loud and stridulous respiration which afford to the practised ear the painful but unerring evi- dence of the nature of the mischief present. In either case, however, the disease hastens to its second pathological state, in which the evi- dences of increased vascularity begin to disap- pear, and are succeeded by the secretion or effusion of a viscid tenacious lymph, which, assuming the form of a membrane, has ob- r 2