804 PAR VAGUM. and also some of those distributed upon the pharynx and back parts of the tongue, so that it is chiefly composed of sensiferous and incident filaments. The inferior laryngeal furnishes incident and sensiferous filaments to the greater part of the trachea, to the cervical portion of the oesophagus, a few to the mucous surface of the pharynx, and still fewer to the larynx ; it supplies the motor filaments of the cervical portion of the oesophagus and of all the muscles which are attached to and move the arytenoid cartilages, and is chiefly composed of motor filaments.* When any excitation is applied to the mucous membrane of the larynx in the healthy state, this does not excite the contraction of the muscles which move the arytenoid carti- lages by acting directly upon these through the mucous membrane, but is the result, as Dr. M. Hallf had maintained, of a reflex or excito- motory action, in the performance of which the superior laryngeal is the incident, and the infe- rior laryngeal the motor nerve. In each re- current nerve two sets of motor filaments are included, one set transmitting the nervous in- fluence which stimulates the opening muscles of the larynx to act synchronously with the other muscles of inspiration, the other set transmit- ting the nervous influence which calls the closing muscles into synchronous action with the muscles of expiration.]; Upon these views we can readily explain how, when the inferior laryngeal nerves are cut, all the movements of the muscles of the arytenoid cartilages are arrested, and the superior aper- ture of the larynx, as was first pointed out by Legallois, can no longer be dilated during in- spiration. In fact, the sides of the larynx are not only no longer separated by an active in- fluence, but are rendered quite passive, and yield readily within the limits of their natural movements to any external force applied to them. When the recurrent nerves are cut in an adult animal, where the cavity of the larynx is large, a quantity of air may still find its way through the diminished aperture, adequate, in many cases, to carry on the respiratory process in a sufficient manner, particularly if the mus- cles of inspiration are not acting violently. If, on the other hand, the capacity of the larynx be proportionally smaller as in young animals, the air rushes through the diminished superior aper- ture of the larynx in a narrower stream and with increased force, more especially when the in- spiratory movements are powerful—or in other words, when the capacity of the thorax is sud- denly and greatly enlarged,—and an insufficient quantity of air reaches the lungs. This quan- tity is still further reduced by the circumstance that the now passive sides of the superior aper- ture of the larynx are carried inwards by the * We also suggested that some of these filaments distributed in the trachea might be motor, though we had not succeeded in obtaining experimental evidence of it. t Lectures on the Nervous System and its Dis- eases, Lecture 1, 1836. X Each of these two sets may again be subdivided into other two—one composed of the excito-motory filaments of Dr. M. Hall, the other of sensifero- volitional filaments. current of air, and at each inspiration the ary- tenoid cartilages may be so closely approx- imated as to prevent the ingress of air and suf- focate the animal. It is the inspiration alone of the animal which is difficult, for the expira- tion is easy. The occurrence or non-occurrence of dypsnoea, or suffocation, after section of the inferior laryngeals, is to be explained by the greater or less capacity of the larynx in the indi- vidual animal, and the activity and extent of its respiratory movements at the time. The crowing sound which frequently attends this condition of the larynx is a mere physical effect, and depends upon the current of air rushing rapidly through the diminished aper- ture of the larynx, and may be imitated in the dead larynx. Severe dyspnoea amounting to suffocation may arise both from the opposite conditions of irritation and compression of the inferior laryngeal nerves or the trunks of the pneumogastric above the origin of this branch. We have stated above that on irritating one recurrent nerve we observed that the arytenoid cartilages were approximated so as in some cases to shut completely the superior aperture of the larynx, and we have already explained how paralysis of this nerve by compression or any other cause should produce this effect by arresting the movements of all the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages.* We also found that after the section of both superior laryngeal nerves in dogs and rabbits they swal- lowed solids and fluids readily, and without exciting cough or difficulty of breathing.! Mr. Hilton has arrived at the conclusion, from the anatomical distribution of the nerves alone, that the superior laryngeal is chiefly sensitive, and that the only motor filaments which it con- tains are distributed in the crico-thyroid muscle, while the inferior laryngeal supplies all the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages with motor filaments,—a view in exact ac- cordance with that which we have given above.J Volkmann in his experiments found that the movements of the glottis were not affected by dividing thesuperior laryngealnerves.§ Longet|| * Professor Henderson (Cormack's Journal of Medical Science, p. 10, for 1841) adduces cases to shew that in the human species the narrowing of the superior aperture of the larynx, termed laryn- gismus stridulus, may be induced both by irritation and paralysis of the recurrents. t An account of the above experiments and in- ferences was read at the meeting of the British Scientific Association in 1837 ; a short epitome of them was given in the Athenasum for Sept. 16, 1837, and they were published in full in the Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal for January, 1838. X Guy's Hospital Reports for October, 1837, forming part of the 2nd volume. $ Opus cit. Volkmann states that on irritating the external branch of the superior laryngeal in dogs and calves, not only the crico-thyroid muscle was thrown into contraction, but also the constrictor pharyngeus superior and the thyro-hyoid. If this be confirmed, these two last muscles must receive their motor nervous filaments from two sources, as the constrictor receives a supply from the pharyn- geal branch of the vagus, and the thyro-hyoid from the hypoglossal. |j Recherches Experimentales sur les Functions des Nerfs, des Muscles du Larynx, &c. Paris, 1841.