NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Cerebiio-spinal Fluid.) 641 the authority of Cruveilhier, that in fifteen sub- jects in which the latter anatomist found this orifice, its margins had the torn appearance in every one; " that around the opening, here and there, there existed the debris of mem- branes."* My own opinion is that this orifice does not exist naturally, but that it is produced by the violence to which the brain is subject in its removal, or in the manipulations necessary for demonstrating it. It appears to me that the fourth ventricle is closed in the same way as the inferior horn of the lateral ventricles, namely, by the reflection of its proper membrane from its floor on to the adjacent pia mater. This membrane is so extremely delicate that the slightest traction upon it is sufficient to dis- turb its connexions. Its existence may be best proved by the resistance which a probe pushed into the fourth ventricle from above experiences at its inferior extremity, a resist- ance, however, which a little force can over- come. Or, if the fourth ventricle be opened from the side, by a vertical section of the median lobe of the cerebellum some dis- tance to one side of the median plane, and if this be done on a brain previous to its re- moval from the body, or on one which has been removed with great caution, so as to occasion the least possible disturbance to the parts, it will be found that the ventricle is closed below by the reflection of its proper membrane upon the pia mater. There can be no doubt that fluid driven against this membrane with force would easily rupture it, whether from with- in the ventricle or from the sub-arachnoid space.f It is plain that if there be a direct commu- nication between the fluid in the ventricles and that in the sub-arachnoid cavity at the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle, it must take place through an opening in that portion of the pia mater which ascends into the fourth ven- tricle to form the choroid plexus. But it is not necessary to have recourse to such a sup- position to account for the transmissibility of fluid from one cavity to the other, for the pia mater is evidently hygrometric, and will readily admit of the passage of fluid through it by endosmose, and it is highly probable that, if any interchange of fluid takes place between the intra-ventricular cavity and the sub-arachnoid space, it is accomplished through the influence of endosmose and exosmose, effected not merely by the pia mater at the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle, but likewise by that at the inferior comua of the lateral ventricles, and perhaps also by that of the third ventricle, at the velum interpositum. And it is worthy of remark, as tending to con- firm this opinion, (which, so far as I am aware, has not previously been suggested,) that at each of these situations there is a conflux (to use Majendie's phrase) of the sub-arachnoid fluid. * Martin St. Ange. Sur les membranes du cerveau et de la moelle epiniere. t See the description of the fourth ventricle fur- ther on. VOL. in. Cruveilhier lays some stress upon the fact that in apoplexy the blood escapes from the ventricle into the sub-arachnoid space. For my own part, I would say that this occurrence takes place as often, if not more frequently, at the inferior cor- nuaof the lateral ventricles, as at the fourth ven- tricle. And therefore, if such a fact be used as an argument in favour of the direct communica- tion of the latter with the sub-arachnoid space, it ought equally to lead to the supposition of the existence of similar orifices at the former situa- tions, the absence of which may be easily proved. Moreover it may be stated that blood sometimes extravasates into the arachnoid sac, breaking through the arachnoid membrane; it is, there- fore, less difficult to conceive its bursting the pia mater, which is evidently more porous, and is the seat of those vessels from which the he- morrhage comes, a morbid condition of which is the frequent precursor of the apoplectic attack. The best way of obtaining the sub-arachnoid fluid with a view to form an estimate of its quantity, is to open the dura mater and arach- noid in the lumbar region of the spine, having previously, by means of a trephine, made a small perforation in the skull, so as to allow the pressure of the atmosphere to bear upon the cranial contents. " If," says Cotunnius, " you open the vertebra; of the loins before the head is touched, and cut the enclosed tube of the dura mater, a great quantity of water will burst out, and after all this spontaneous flux of water is spent, if you lift up the head, and shake it toward the aperture, a more plentiful stream will burst out, as if a new fountain was un- locked. In these experiments, which I made on the bodies of near twenty adults, and which I repeated at different times, I could draw off freely from the hollow of the spine four and sometimes even five ounces of water: I com- monly found it very clear in such subjects, although it sometimes inclined a little to a yellow colour; but in fetuses strangled in difficult labour, little as it was, I observed it to be always red and opaque."* The estimate of the quantity of sub-arach- noid fluid here assigned by Cotunnius exceeds that which Majendie deduces from his expe- riments, who states that in general in a subject of adult age and mean size, and in moderate condition, two ounces may be regarded as the minimum quantity. Much depends upon the age and size of the subject and the state of nu- trition of the nervous centres. In children the quantity is very small; in old age, when the brain and spinal cord have shrunk considerably, the quantity is large. In examining the bodies of the aged poor, as Majendie remarks, eight, ten, or twelve ounces of fluid may be obtained from the cranio-spinal cavity, according as there is a greater or less degree of atrophy of the brain. In judging of the quantity of fluid around as well as within the cerebro-spinal centres, * From an English translation of Cotunnius's essay, entitled, A Treatise on the Nervous Sciatica, or Nervous^ Hip Gout, translated by Henry Crantz. London, 1775. 2 T