728 NOSE. 1. Tyramidalis, (Casserius; procerus, San- torini; jronto-nusul, Chaussier.) This (c,Jig. 403) cannot be strictly called a separate muscle of the nose, and it is described with the front- alis by Haller, Theile, and many others. It consists of those fibres of the median portion of the frontalis muscle which descend in a fasciculus over the upper part of the nose. They terminate in the cellular tissue covering the superior cartilage, and, through its medium, they are attached to the cartilage itself, and to the adjacent border of the nasal bone; many of them also are continued onwards and mingled with the upper fibres of the triangularis nasi (e), with whose aponeurosis, moreover, theirs is always continuous. At their inner margin these fasciculi are in contact above, but they diverge below as they pass over the surface of the nasal bones, and they thus assume that appearance of two distinct slender triangular slips of muscle which led Santorini to give them a distinct name, though they have not that distinct origin which he assigns to them. The pyramidales do not appear to have the power of acting alone. When the rest of the frontalis contracts, and, by drawing down the scalp, wrinkles the skin of the forehead, they also act, raising and tightening the skin over the upper part of the bridge of the nose. They produce the same effect when the brows are drawn up, as in surprise. 2. Levator labii superioris alaqne nasi, (Al- binus, Weber, &c; pyramidalis, Santorini; oblique, ou lateral, Winslow; elevateur com- mun, Bichat, Bourgery, &c.) This, (d, d, jig. 403,) which is the largest and strongest of the muscles of the nose, arises, internally, by a narrow slip of fibres from the upper and outer part of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, and, externally, by a broader origin from below the inner part of the lower border of the orbit. Its origins are covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum, and from them its fibres proceed downwards and diverge. About two-thirds of them pass to the outer part of the upper lip, mingling with the fibres of the orbicularis oris (i) and levator labii proprius, and inserted for the most part in the skin ; the remainder go downwards and a little forwards over the posterior third of the ala of the nose. Of these last, some are attached more or less intimately to the posterior parts of the inferior cartilage and the membrane in which it is im- bedded ; many more terminate in the skin over the lower part of the ala, and are there mingled with fibres which run in various directions, but usually form a complete layer of muscular fas- ciculi beneath the skin of the outer border of the nostril. In contracting, the nasal portion of this muscle draws up the ala of the nose, espe- cially its posterior and lower half; and as the cartilage and other dense tissues of this part do not admit of wrinkling, the muscle, in its full action, turns the nostril outwards, and expands its aperture at the same time that it wrinkles the skin above it. 3. Triangularis, (Cloquet, Bourgery, &c.; trunsversus, Santorini, Winslow, Theile; com- pressor nasi, Albinus, Ilaller; e,e,fig. 403) is a thin pale muscle whose origin is covered by the preceding. It arises by a narrow aponeurosis from the upper and outer part of the canine fossa, behind and external to the base of the ala of the nose. Its fibres thence diverge, the lower ones passing almost horizontally, the upper ones forwards and inwards, and they form a thin triangular muscle which covers the upper part of the ala of the nose and reaches to the dorsum. Sometimes many of its fibres pass over the dorsum of the nose and mingle with those of the muscle of the opposite side; but more often there intervenes between the two muscles a pliant fibro-cellular expansion, into the borders of which many of their fibres are inserted, and which thus forms a kind of me- dian aponeurosis extending over the front of the nose and enabling both the muscles to act at once and equally upon it and the ala. In general, also, the upper or outer fibres of this muscle are continuous with those of the pyra- midalis or are fixed in its aponeurosis; and the lower fibres are mingled with fibres of the de- pressor ala? nasi, and pass into the irregular assemblage of fibres beneath the skin of the lower border of the ala. Many of the fibres are connected through their whole course more or less intimately with the other tissues of the ala and the skin; and probably it was from this last circumstance that Santorini was in- duced to describe this muscle as having the whole of its origin among the fibres of the levator labii superioris alteque nasi, or rather as a muscle peculiar for having its middle por- tion fixed (on the dorsum of the nose) and its two extremities moveable in the substance of each side of the upper lip. These muscles have been described by some as compressors, by others as dilators of the nose, and in different circumstances they pro- bably do act very differently. When the outer or maxillary insertion of each is fixed, they assist in compressing the nostrils, and in com- bination with the true depressors (presently to be described) their lower fibres draw the alae backwards. When, on the other hand, they take their fixed point in the median aponeurosis on the dorsum of the nose, and contract towards it, those of their fibres which are connected with the skin will wrinkle it, as in the act of sneering, and those which are attached to the deeper tissues of the ala will draw it upwards and in some degree expand the nostril. When they compress the nostrils they commonly also draw backwards the apex of the nose in the manner usually seen in the act of smelling carefully. 4. Depressor ala nasi, (Haller, Albinus, Theile; Myrtiformis, seu pinnte dilatator, San- torini ; Petit dilatateur de I'aile du nez, Bour- gery ; incisifmitoyen, Winslow; dilatator narium, Arnold ;.f,fig- 403) arises by short aponeurotic fibres from the alveolar margin above the se- cond incisor and canine teeth of the upper jaw, below and on the inner side of the origin of the triangularis. Its fibres proceed upwards, forwards, and inwards, some going to the pos- terior part of the skin under the sides of the