721 NINTH PAIR OF NERVES. NINTH PAIR OF NERVES (Nervi fiypdglossi, vel gustatorii, Winslow; Lingualis, Vic d'Azyr; Ninth nerve of Willis; Twelfth of Soemmering.) The ninth pair of nerves take their origin from the side of the medulla ob- longata, commencing by a variable number of small radicles in the fissure which separates the corpus olivare from the pyramidale. The superior of these radicles are attached about the centre of this fissure, and the infe- rior a little below its termination; they are placed on a line one below the other, which line describes a slight curve looking upwards and backwards, following the curved form of the olivary body. The origin of this nerve is superior to that of the first cervical, to which also it lies on a plane a little anterior; it is separated from the origins of the par vagum by the olivary body, and has lying immediately in front the corpus pyramidale and the vertebral artery. The radicles which form the origin of this nerve vary in number from five to ten or twelve; and if any of these radicles be ex- amined closely, they will be found to consist of two or more minor filaments, so that it is very difficult to say exactly by how many roots or origins the ninth nerve is attached to the me- dulla spinalis.* These filaments in general unite into two fasciculi, which pass in a direction downwards, forwards, and outwards to the anterior condy- loid foramen, through which the nerve escapes from the cavity of the cranium. It rarely happens that these fasciculi unite in the cavity of the cranium ; in general, they pass on separately until they reach the foramen, where in passing through the dura mater they become united into one trunk, which is here invested with a strong neurilemma, derived from the dura mater. The ninth pair of nerves, on emerging from the anterior condyloid foramen, is in close re- lation to the eighth pair of nerves, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic. II ere the nerve lies external to the vagus. Connected to it by a dense cellular tissue, for a space about the eighth of an inch, it passes behind the internal carotid artery immediately before that vessel enters the carotid canal, and lies in front of the jugular vein ; here also the nerve is connected to the anterior and superior part of the superior cervical ganglion, in a manner to be presently described. In this situation the ninth nerve lies deep in Ihe neck, being covered by the origins of the styloid muscles, the posterior belly of the di- gastric, the sterno-mastoid, the skin, platysma, and fascia. The trunk of the nerve then passes down- wards, outwards, and slightly forwards, escapes from beneath the posterior belly of the digas- * Quarum incertns numems causa est, cura a variis varie descript<E ot delineatae exstent. Alii enim quatuor, alii octo componi fascictilis dixe- runt.—Soemmering de Basi encephali et originibus nervorum, page \6ti. VOL. III. trie and anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, becomes more superficial, is crossed in this part of its course by the occipital artery, and at a point in the neck corresponding to the level of the third cervical vertebra,* and opposite the angle of the jaw,+ the nerve turns forwards and upwards, forming an arch, the convexity of which looks downwards and backwards; here the nerve is covered only by the skin, platysma, and fascia, crosses and lies in front of the origin of the occipital artery, the internal jugular vein, external ca- rotid artery, and vagus nerve ; passing still in- wards and upwards towards the posterior edge of the hyoglossus muscle, the nerve is crossed by the tendon of the digastric, lying here su- perior (o the lingual artery. Itthen passes between themylo-hyoid and the hyo-glossus,and having reached the anterior edge of the last-named muscle, it enters and passes through the fibres of the genio-hyoolossus, in the substance of which muscle it divides into its terminating branches, the connections and distribution of which shall be examined after we have considered the connections of this nerve and the branches which it gives off and receives in its course through the neck. The ninth nerve, on escaping from the an- terior condyloid foramen, is connected to the par vagum, as was before noticed, by dense cel- lular tissue, but also by a nervous filament; further on, as the ninth nerve approaches the transverse process of the atlas, it receives a twig from the first cervical nerve, or from the nervous loop formed round the transverse process of the atlas by the communicating branches of the first and second cervical nerves.| In this situation, also, the ninth is connected by a small nerve with the superior cervical gan- glion. Ramus cervicalis descendens, seu descendens noni.—The next regular branch given off by this nerve is immediately before it turns in front of the jugular vein and carotid artery, when it gives off a large and regular branch called cer- vicalis descendens, or descendens noni. The point at which the ninth nerve gives off this branch is immediately below the angle of the jaw, and where it escapes from under the edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The de- scendens noni from this passes downwards and forwards to the inferior part of the neck ; at its. origin this nerve frequently receives a twig from the par vagum ; it passes down the neck in front of the jugular vein and carotid artery, crossing these vessels obliquely, being in this course superficial to the cellular investment de- rived from the cervical fascia which constitutes the sheath of these vessels. Omo-hi/oid branch.—About the centre of the neck, the cervicalis descendens gives off a con- siderable branch, which, passing in a direction upwards and inwards, enters the interior belly * See Meckel, Manuel d'Anatomie, vol. iii. page 53. t See ]?oycr, Traite d'Anatomie, vol. iii. p. 359. J See Traite d'Anatomic, lioyer, vol. iii. p. 359. 3 A