NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 691 scribed by Tarin and Malacarne. When the fourth ventricle has been carefully opened in a recent cerebellum, it is very easy to demon- strate them by passing the handle of a knife under them. The structure of these lateral wings of the inferior medullary velum is readily ascertained. Their delicacy is such that they admit of being examined by the microscope without pressure or other manipulation. They consist of tubular fibres of various sizes, taking a transverse di- rection, that, namely, of the long diameter of each wing, covered by a layer of nucleus-like particles as an epithelium. They seem to con- nect the nodule to the small lobules of the pneumo-gastric nerve above mentioned (the Jfiocks of Reil), or to connect those lobules them- selves as a commissure.* The nodule pushes before it, into the fourth ventricle, a fold of the pia mater, connected with which on either side are several small granulations, or Pacchionian bodies. It is called the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. We can easily trace it to be continuous with the pia mater which covers the lobules of the seventh pair of nerves. Next to the nodule, below and behind it, is a small lobe, called by Reil the spigot (Zapfen), with a pointed extremity directed downwards and forwards. It consists of several small la- minae separated by their fissures. Behind it is a larger lobule, which forms the most prominent portion of the inferior vermiform process, called by Reil, from its form, the pyramid. Its apex is directed downwards and backwards, and it likewise consists of numerous small laminae. These lobules of the inferior portion of the median lobe serve to connect others of the lateral hemispheres. The spigot connects the almond-like lobes; the pyramid the biventral and the slender lobes. Posterior to the pyramid are a series of la- minae which extend to the posterior notch and form its floor. These pass directly from one side to the other, their free margin being con- vex and directed backwards. They connect the posterior inferior lobes. And some of the most anterior of them, which do not project to the surface, connect the slender lobes as well as some of the anterior laminae of the posterior inferior lobes. These latter laminae of the in- ferior vermiform process, Reil distinguishes by the name of long and hidden commissure (langen verdecklen Commissur), and the former constitute his short and exposed commissure (Kurzcn und sichtbaren Commissur). Above the last-named commissure is a single lamina which forms a line of demarcation be- tween the inferior and the superior vermiform processes, serving to connect the upper and posterior lobes of the hemispheres. This is the single commisswe (einfache quer Commissur). It will serve to elucidate the foregoing neces- sarily intricate description, if I sum up with Inferior surface of the cerebellum. V, inferior vermiform process ; p, posterior pyramids ; r, restiform bodies. the following enumeration of the lobes of the the lobes of the superior and inferior vermiform hemispheres, specifying at the same time the processes which serve that purpose, commissures by which they are connected, i. e. 1. On thesuperiorsurface of the hemispheres. * Although it does not appear that Reil used the The square lobes, consisting of eight microscope, his statement respecting the structure lobules, which are connected by as many, or of these wings is perfectly correct. nearly so, of the superior vermiform process. 2 v 2