420 MOTION. ever, considerably in different orders of insects, and they are here described rather in the language of geometry than in that of entomo- logy. The ratio of the area of the wings to the weight of the insect varies in each order, and approximates to a constant quantity only in the same order. The wings of insects dimi- nish in thickness from their base to their apex, and from their anterior to their posterior margin;* the strongest nervures traverse the anterior margin of the wing, and confer on that portion the greatest resisting power. The posterior margin being weaker is inclined upwards and backwards in reference to the direction of its stroke. The plane of the wing, as Straus has correctly remarked, is therefore inclined at a different angle to the horizon at every moment of its descent. By the composition of forces the obliquity of the wings backwards and downwards gives to the centre of gravity an impulse upwards and for- wards. The radial and cubital nervures in insects supply the place of the bones of the arm in birds; and though different in structure, they have the same mechanical effect. The anterior nervures being articulated to the apo- * See Chabrier sur le vole des insects, c. i. p. 424. physes of the wings, and being fixed at their extremities upon the two axillary first pieces, the latter, with the wings, form a lever of the first order, and when the internal borders of the two axillary pieces are lowered the wings are raised, and vice versa; or as the axillaries are articulated upon the border of the clypeus, the movements of elevation and depression in these produce the contrary movements in the wings.* The wings of insects oscillate during flight through arcs of various lengths, which depend on the distances of the centres of the wings from their axes of motion, and other dy- namic conditions. In the Lepidoptera they appear to describe an arc of 180°, so as to meet each other at each elevation and depres- sion. In some other orders the arc of oscilla- tion appears to be much less. Amongst the Coleoptera, in some of which the elytra assist the under wing in flight, according to Chabrier, the latter describe an arc four times as great as the former.f In estimating the number of * See Straus-D'urckheim, loco cit. 212. f Daus les hannetons chaque aile, en volant paroit decrire un arc de plus de 200° cent, tandis que celui trace dans le meme temps par les elytres est peut-etre au dessous de 50° cent. See Chabrier, sur le vole des insects, p. 31.