NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 110 ligamentous fibres of the crico-arytenoid arti- culation at B (fig. 30) are relaxed; for, al- though some fibres lying nearest the mesial plane are directed to draw the arytenoids to- wards B, they are counteracted by the fibres lying furthest from it, and by assuming the whole to act together, the resultant will be as nearly as possible perpendicular to the axis of articulation O P, which would open the glottis ; and therefore he concludes that the force of the thyro-arytenoidei postici in a direction back- wards may be neglected. Bichat erroneously considered that they assist the thyro-aryte- noidei and crico-arytenoidei in drawing the thyro-arytenoid ligaments very tense.* The thyro-epiglottidei.-—These are a pair of small muscles situated between the anterior sur- face of the thyroid cartilage and epiglottis; they arise from the internal surface of the thyroid near its middle, and not far from the origin of the thyro-arytenoidei; their fibres are directed upwards and forwards to the base of the epi- glottis, to which they are inserted behind the ligamenta thyro-epiglottidea. Their action is to depress the epiglottis. The aryteno-epiglottidei are two small mus- cles, arising from the superior pyramid of the arytenoid cartilages posterior to the arytenoid muscles, or from the fibrous raphe situated vertically behind them ; they pass upwards and forwards to the sides of the epiglottis, and upon the posterior border of the thyro-epiglottic membrane. Action.—Owing to the direction of their fibres, the thyro-and aryteno-epiglottidei tend to depress the epiglottis, or rather to effect the tension of the aryteno-epiglottic mucous folds. The action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx may be briefly recapitulated as follows : The crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis; all the other muscles close it. The arytenoideus obliquus and arytenoideus transversus approximate the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly. The crico-arytenoidei laterales and the thyro-arytenoidei bring them in contact anteriorly. The thyro-arytenoidei close the centre of the glottis, and with the crico-thyroidei, assisted by the sterno-thyroidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the chords vocales. The crico-thyroidei and sterno-thyroidei an- tagonise the thyro-arytenoidei, and in stretch- ing the crico-thyroid ligament, the sterno-thy- roidei with the thyro-arytenoidei antagonise the crico-thyroidei. The crico-arytenoidei laterales, and thyro- arytenoidei, and the arytenoideus obliquus and transversus antagonise the crico-arytenoidei postici. These last-named muscles likewise may be said to antagonize all the muscles which close the glottis. The genio-glossi, the liuguales, the stylo- pharyngei, and crico-pharyngei, and hyo-glossi, are muscles associated in common with the mo- * Quand les thyro-arytenoidiens c.t crioo-aryte- noidiens lateraux d'une part, et los ciico-arytenoi- diens posterieurs d'une autre part agissent simul- tanement, les ligamens ihyro-arytcnoidicns sont fortement tendus. tions of the tongue, pharynx, and larynx, and belong rather to the structure and functions of the two former of these organs than to the larynx, and consequently are considered only as auxiliary. The motions of the internal mechanism of the larynx being effected by muscles, whose forces are directed, with respect to each other, in various degrees of obliquity, and in different planes, and producing by their combination results which can only be demonstrated on me- chanical principles, it has been deemed desira- ble to introduce them into the preceding inves- tigations to insure greater precision of detail and accuracy of result, and the more especially as we find in the works of our best anatomical writers the most discordant opinions, based ap- parently upon mere hypothesis or superfical observation, and without reference to any data or principle from whence their conclusions are drawn. The perusal of the works of Albinus,* Hal- ler,f Cowper,! Soemmering,§ Meckel,|| Bi- chat,H Magendie,** and Bell,tf confirm these remarks; exceptions to these observations are found in the works of Borelli,J| Barthez,§§ E. and W. Weber,|||| Bernoulli i,M Barclay,*** and Willis ;fft from the invaluable investiga- tions of the latter much assistance has been de- rived. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior thyroid, a branch of the external carotid and from the inferior thyroid, a branch of the subclavian. Small veins accom- pany the arteries and empty themselves into the neighbouring trunks. Structures called glands.— The arytenoid gland. Syn. Glandulff. arytenoidea, Mor- gagni, Bichat, Cloquet; cartilago cunei- J'ormis, Wrisberg, Bandt. The arytenoid gland is an inappropriate designation given to the cuneiform cartilage by Morgagnian whose views of the structure of this body are adopted by Bichat,§§§ Cloquet,|||||| and Cru- * Historia Musculorum, lib. ii. t Elem. Phys. torn. iii. | Anat. of the human body. De Corporis Hum. Struct. Traite Generate, torn. x. Traite d'Anat. desc. torn. ii. ** Physiol. ft Anat. of the human body. it De motu animalium. Lugd. Batav. 1685. Nouvelle mechanique des mouvemens l'Homme et des Animaux, 1798. Illl Mechanik der Menschlichen Gehwerkzeuge, mit xvii Taf. Gott. 1836-8. H11 De motu musculorum. **» 'j-jjg muscular motions of the human body. ttt Cambridge Phil. Trans. 1833. |jj Constant glandulae arytaenoidaea? ex granosa substantia e livido albescenle, de qua utilem oblini- endo laryngi succum maxime inter edendum, aut vociferandum, appressa epiglottis; vel contracti vicini musculi exprimunt. §§§ II apparoit que les deux glandes aryteno'ides ne sont que des glandes muqueuses plus prononcees que celles qui entourent le reste de la membrane laryngee, mais qu'elles ont absolument le meme usage. Op. cit. p. 386. ||Illl Les glandes sont formees de petits grains arrondis, asscz consistans, d'une couleur grisatre. Op. cit. de