MONOTREMATA. 399 tical membrane it is probable that this does not become organized into a placenta, and that the Munotremuta like the Marsupiuta are essentially ovoviviparous. Since, however, the female Or- nitliorhynchus has no tegumentary pouch to pro- tect a prematurely born offspring, it must be pre- sumed that the foetus acquires greater propor- tional bulk* and more mature strength by a longer continuance within the uterus. In this case it may be doubted whether the vitelline vesicle will suffice for nourishment and respi- ration through the whole period of develop- ment, and the allantois and umbilical vessels will probably be more expanded for that pur- pose. The means of prosecuting this inquiry are the more likely to be aflbrded, since, through the exertions of Mr. Bennett, the period when the pregnant female may be procured is now ascertained. Had not a specimen, supposed to be in this condition, which my friend had obtained alive, unfortunately escaped from its confinement, he would, there is little doubt, have ascertained the true nature of the gene- rative product, and the probable duration of gestation. With reference to the latter point, Mr. Ben- nett observes, that two months after the cap- ture of the female specimen with the smallest ova, viz. on the 8th of December, 1832, he succeeded in laying open one of the burrows of the Ornithorhynchi on the banks of the Mur- rumbidgee River, in which three living young ones were found: they were naked, and mea- sured only one inch and seven-eighths in length, and he considers them to have been recently brought forth. Not having any means of preserving these specimens, and being at a great distance from Sydney, they were lost. The nest was most carefully scrutinized by Mr. Bennett, but not the slightest trace of an egg-shell could be perceived in it. The principal points, therefore, in the ge- nerative economy of this paradoxical species which still remain to be determined by actual observation are— 1st. The manner of copulation. " 2d. The season of copulation. (This is pro- bably at the latter end of the month of Sep- tember or beginning of October.) 3d. The period of gestation. (This is pro- bably six weeks.) 4th. The nature and succession of the tem- porary structures developed for the support of the foetus during gestation. 5th. The exact size, condition, and powers of the young at the time of birth. 6th. The act of suckling. 7th. The period during which the young- requires the lacteal nourishment. 8th. The age at which the animal attains its full size. I have ascertained the following particulars * In reference to this point it may be observed, that the kidneys are not lodged low down in the pelvis as in the true Ovipara, but occupy the posi- tion characteristic of the Mamrniferous type of structure, which allows free space for the enlarge- ment of the uterus during pregnancy. respecting the young Ornitliorhynchus, pro- bably not long excluded from the foetal enve- lopes, by an examination of two specimens, obtained by Lieut, the Hon. Lauderdale Maule, from two different nests, discovered by him in the banks of the Fish River, Australia, and presented by Dr. Weatherhead to the Zoolo- gical Society of London. Subjoined is an outline of the smaller of these specimens of the natural size (fig. 195). Young Ornitliorhynchus. ( Original. J The following are admeasurements of these two specimens:— Smaller Larger Ornitlio- Ornitlio- rhynchus. rhvnchus. In. L. In. L. Length from the end of the upper jaw over the curve of the back to the end of Length from the same points in a straight line along the abdomen Greatest circumference of the body Length of the head Length of the upper man- dible Breadth of the upper man- dible at the base Thickness of the upper man- dible at the anterior margin Length of the lower mandible Breadth of the lower man- dible at the base Length of the tail from the vent Breadth of the tail at the root Length of the fore foot .... Breadth of the fore foot. . . . Length of the hind foot. . . . Breadth of the hind foot . . Distance between the eyes. . Distance between the nostrils From the exterior nostrils to the end of the mandible From the tip of the tongue to the end of the lower mandible 3 9 G 6 2 1 4 0 2 9 4 8 0 8i 1 0 0 3 0 5 0 4 0 6 0 03 0 1 0 2 0 n 0 3 0 5 0 4J 0 10 0 4 0 8 0 3 0 5 0 31 0 5 0 4 0 8| 0 3 0 5 0 0 6 0 n 0 n 0 n 0 2 0 0 0}