827 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) Fig. 437. Hjjoid apparatus and bra proper to examine how far it is entitled to be looked upon as we have already stated it to be, as forming a continuation of the spinal column, and if so, to define the vertebra of which it consists. In the human cranium indeed this would be no easy task, partly in consequence of the extreme exaggeration of every element composing it, and partly from the manner in which some bones, distinct in the lower animals, are here consolidated into single masses ; more- over in consequence of the prodigious develope- ment of the cerebral hem ispheres every part is dis- torted and pushed aside as it were out of its pro- per situation relative to the neighbouring bones. In the cranium of the Reptile, however, and even of the less intelligent Mammalia, these difficulties are to a great extent done away with, and the vertebral form is preserved, while, in addition, the elements composing them fre- quently remain permanently disunited. The first cranial vertebra (commencing from behind) is the occipital, and this can present no difficulty. In Eishes, indeed, and in many Reptiles, the occipital bone, of which this ver- tebra is entirely made up, has not only the exact shape of one of the spinal bones, but the elements composing it remaining often perma- nently disunited, they are most easily and satisfactorily identified. Inferiorly there is the body (or basilar bone, 5) connected with the body of the first spinal vertebra in the same manner as the corresponding portion of the other vertebrae are connected with each other. On each side the neurapophyses (or extra-occi- pital bones, 10) arching over the commence- ment of the spinal cord, and lastly, the neuro- spine (or supra-occipital bone, 8) occupying its normal situation, and in many of the lower hiostegous rays of Perch ( after Cuvier). Vertebrata forming a real spinous process, although in the human subject, owing to the prodigious size of the hinder part of the ence- phalon, it is enormously spread out in propor- tion to the dimensions of the parts it protects. The second or parietal vertebra of the cra- nium is slightly more distorted, and its real nature masked, particularly in the higher Ver- tebrata, by the interposition of the petro-tem- poral bone, which does not normally belong to the cranium, between it and the preceding. Its body is the sphenoid bone, represented in the human subject by the posterior part of the sella Turcica, but which in Reptiles is a dis- tinct element of the skull; its arches are formed by the ala majores of the sphenoid; (likewise separate pieces of the cranium in the lower animals, although in man they are con- solidated with the former,) while the spine is converted into the expanded parietal bone or bones spread out over the central regions of the brain. The anterior cranial vertebra is called the frontal, receding still more from the normal appearance of a vertebra than the parietal, the preponderance of magnitude in the different elements that form it being completely in- verted, the body being quite rudimentary, while the enormously developed spinous ele- ments are now converted into frontal bones. In man its body and its arches are represented by the alec minores of the sphenoid or ingrassial bones, and the os J'rontis constitutes its dispro- portionately expanded spine. These three vertebra, therefore, are the essential consti- tuents of the skull ; and, although in the hu- man cranium the most aberrant of any met with in creation, their nature is not at once