1000 PISCES. iris, is gathered into numerous beautiful ra- diating folds (ciliary plica) ; these in very large eyes, as in the Moon-fish ( Orthagoriscus) for example, are seen each of them to consist of two or three minute folds, which, as they run forwards, unite into one and terminate in a point at the circumference of the iris, but in no instance do they project freely inwards as dis- tinct processes, so as to resemble the ciliary processes of Mammiferous Vertebrata. The ciliary plicae, as indeed most of the posterior surface of the iris, is in immediate contact with the membrane of the vitreous humour, to which it is intimately adherent; for in Fishes there is no posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, the anterior segment of the crystalline lens pro- jecting in many instances quite through the pupillary aperture. In a space enclosed between the proper choroid and the membrana argentea is a struc- ture quite peculiar to the osseous Fishes, for it is not met with even in the Chondropterygious races* This consists of a spongy mass of irregular form, which partially surrounds the entrance of the optic nerve (fig. 532, h), and extends for some distance towards the front Fig. 532. Coats of the eye of the Perch. (After Cuvier.) Fig. 1, muscles of eye-ball; a, superior oblique; b, inferior oblique ; 1,2, 3, 4, recti muscles; i, optic nerve. Figs.2 and 3,f,f,f, fatty matter; g, cho- roid ; h, " choroid gland." of the eyeball. This body, which has been absurdly called the choroid gland, is some- times divided into two portions; at others it assumes a somewhat crescentic form, but it is always deficient towards the lower part * Cuvier et Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. des Pois- sons, torn. i. p. 337. of the eye. Its colour is always a deep red, and its tissue is principally made up of bloodvessels running transversely in close pa- rallel lines. Other vessels issue from it which are frequently very tortuous and always much ramified; these run into the choroid, where they form so dense a network that it was de- scribed by Haller as a distinct membrane, and has been subsequently named membrana Hal- leri. The use of the so-called choroid gland has not been fully ascertained ; most probably, however, it is essentially composed of erectile tissue, which by its dilatation and contraction may have some influence in accommodating the form of the eye to the distance of objects, or the varying density of the medium through which they are seen. The optic nerve in many Fishes (at least among the Acanthopterygii) is made up of a broad layer of nervous matter folded upon it- self like a fan (Jig. 532) and enclosed in a fibrous envelope, which is continuous with the sclerotic coat of the eye. The nerve enters the eye at a point remote from the axis of vision, penetrating for the most part by an oblique course, so that after having pierced the sclerotic it has still a considerable distance to pass through the substratum of cellular tissue and between the masses of the " choroid gland " before it pierces the choroid and Ruyschian tunics. Its diameter is much diminished at the point where it shews itself in the interior of the eye, where it appears sometimes as a mere point, at others under the form of a round or irregular spot, or sometimes represents a straight line. It then expands into the retina, which, when the nerve is folded, as above described, has likewise a plicated appearance. The re- tina, as in other Vertebrata, lines all the inter- nal cavity of the eye as far as the ciliary plicae, thus enveloping the vitreous humour. Another peculiarity in the structure of the Fish's eye is the existence of an apparatus apparently analogous to the marsupium of Birds, which extends from the choroid to the back of the lens, passing quite through the vitreous humour, to which the name of falci- form ligament has been given. This structure arises by a broad origin from the inner surface of the choroid at the back part of the eye, and extending forwards, following the concavity of the eyeball along its lower surface, arrives at the ciliary zone and is connected with the back of the capsule of the lens. Its shape is falci- form, as the name indicates, the convexity of the curve being attached along the floor of the interior of the eye. In the recent eye it is a delicate and almost imperceptible membrane, but maceration in spirit by rendering it opaque reveals it to consist of several layers of cellu- losity, most probably enclosing numerous ves- sels. According to Cuvier and the younger Soemmering,* the falciform ligament passes through the retina, which is fissured to let it through; but an examination of the large eyes of the Moon-fish after long immersion in spirit * De oculorum hominis animaliumque sectione horizontal! commentatio. Fol. Gocttinga;, 1818.