447 MOTION. scuta (which take a variable number of fixed points in the surface of motion), and enable them to propel the body forwards and supply the place of so many legs. Their muscular sys- tem, though capable of exerting great power, acts at a mechanical disadvantage, and is quickly exhausted. Serpents move by diffe- rent methods, and upon different principles of progression. First, in a straight line, with the whole ventral aspect of the trunk in contact with the plane of motion. Secondly, in a curved line, with the trunk arched laterally, and the ventral aspect also in contact with the ground. Thirdly, in a curved line, with the body moving by an undulatory alternate elon- gation and contraction of small segments of the body. Fourthly, in a straight or curved line, with the trunk arched vertically in two or more curves. Fifthly, in a straight or curved line, with the trunk arched vertically in a single curve, consisting of the greater part of the trunk. Serpents possess also the power of climbing, swimming, and springing. In the first order of locomotion, or that of a straight line, with the whole of the ventral aspect resting immediately on the ground, the serpent is urged onwards by the oscillation of the ribs acting on the abdominal scuta, at successive points of Fig. its length. The scuta of a segment or seg- ments having secured a fulcrum in the plane of motion, the ribs connected with the fixed scuta, acting in turns, rotate backwards; the next segments in advance perform a similar action, until the whole series have completed the step. The length of the complete step depends on the arc through which the ribs oscillate, and the distances of the scuta from the axes of motion; and, as these are both small, and the motion has to be transmitted through the whole length of the reptile, this method of progression is, in consequence, very slow, presenting to the eye a tardy gliding movement. In the second order of motion, the progres- sion is performed in a curved line, with the ven- tral aspectalso in contact with the ground. The method of advancing in this order is similar to that in the first; but as the reptile passes through a larger space in order to reach a given point, the progression will, consequently, be slower. Thus, if the reptile be flexed as re- presented in fig. 241, its length, when extended being equal to the right line /( b, becomes by flexure only equal in the direction of motion to a e. In the third order of motion, the reptile 241. is curved laterally, as in the second, but small segments of the trunk are successively flexed and extended, and the steps taken do not de- pend on the time or extent of the oscillations of the ribs, but on those of the retractions and elongations of the segments of the body; and as the latter greatly exceed the former in celerity and amount, the progression in this order is vastly greater than in the preceding, which is the slowest. These modes of progression are practised by the common Snake, the collared Viper, and other Ophidians. In the fourth order, the trunk is arched into three or four vertical curves. This is an acce- lerated mode of locomotion ; first, the spaces taken at each step are large; and secondly, because the reptile moves in a straight line. When the head b is advanced from b to /(, 242. Fig. 243. each point of application to the plane of motion will advance in equal spaces, either simultaneously or in succession ; in the former case, there will be a succession of leaps, with greater velocity and expenditure of muscular power than in the latter. Many serpents adopt this mode of progression, as the Coluber Escu- lapii,theColuberChersea,andothers, (Jig. 242.) In the fifth order, the progression is effected