MAMMALIA. 234 are usually met with. The cervical, bronchial, and mesenteric glands are those most frequently affected, but all the absorbent glands are very often engaged. Louis states that in phthisis* the relative frequency of tuberculization of these glands is as follows,—the mesenteric, meso- coecal, meso-colic, cervical, lumbar, and axil- lary glands, and that the bronchial glands are as often affected as the mesenteric. The glands affected in children observe pretty nearly the same order as regards the relative frequency of the affection. They are always much enlarged, and frequently closely adherent to each other or neighbouring textures; and the cheesy matter either infiltrates the tissue or is deposited in small poitions in the glands. In an infant, which I had lately under my care in conjunction witn Mr. Holt, it was found, upon post-mortem inspection, that the severe cough with remittent dyspnoea, under which the child sunk, was owing to a mass of enlarged bron- chial glands, of the size of a hen's egg, filled with cheesy matter, pressing on the primary bronchi and on the pulmonary plexus of nerves. Cancer, melanosis, and encephaloid matter are frequently found in these bodies, especially when other organs have been similarly affected. Deposits of calcareous matter are likewise often met with in them, and, as far as my experience goes, in none more frequently than in the bron- chial glands ; these deposits occur generally in old subjects; they consist of phosphate of lime. It has been suggested that this calcareous phos- phate might be derived from the earthy matter of the bones; and Andral relates two remark- able cases in which there was a coincidence between the deficiency of a certain quantity of osseous matter where it should naturally be deposited and its deposition in the lymphatic system. In one, a boy aet. 16, the bronchial, mesenteric, and pelvic glands were occupied by calcareous concretions, and his lungs also contained them; there was also an abscess in one of the iliac fossae, with erosion and de- struction of the os ilii. In a second case, a woman, aet. 33, who died of acute pleuritis, supervening upon a chronic pulmonary affec- tion, the bodies of six vertebrae, the last dorsal and five lumbar, were found destroyed, and cal- careous concretions were found in the cervical, thoracic, bronchial, abdominal, pelvic, axillary, and inguinal glands. The black matter which is so often found in the bronchial glands must not be confounded with melanoid matter. We seldom examine a body that has passed adult age without finding more or less of this matter in the bronchial glands, derived doubtless from the pulmonary black matter, which is conveyed to these glands by the pulmonary lymphatics. The changes which occur in the lymph itself have not as yet received any attention from pa- thologists. This fluid is, however, occasionally either mixed with or replaced by others in the lymphatic vessels. Cases are on record (Ma- jendie, Dupuytren) in which it is stated that * Dr. Cowan's translation, p. 73. the lymphatics in the neighbourhood of san- guineous effusions into the pleura and perito- neum have been filled with blood, and that pus had been absorbed into them from a neigh- bouring abscess. Such cases require confirma- tion with our present improved means of ob- servation, as it is difficult to understand how particles so large as the blood corpuscles, or the globules of pus, could have permeated the coats of the absorbent vessels. In future the microscope must be brought to our aid in the examination of such cases. Authors relate likewise that bile has been found in the lym- phatics of the liver and in its neighbourhood, in cases where the flow of that fluid has been obstructed, (Mascagni, Saunders ;) and Tiede- mann states that in dogs, in which he had tied the hepatic duct, the biliary secretion likewise made its way into the lymphatics. Earthy matter, as in the glands, has also been found in the vessels themselves, and the tubercular, encephaloid, or cancerous matter has likewise been met with stopping up these vessels. For Bibliography, see that of ABSORPTION. (R. B. Todd.) MAMMALIA.—(Lat. Mamma, a teat; Ger. Sa'iiget/iiere; Fr. Mammijeres ; Eng. Mam- mals.)—The most highly organized class of animals, distinguished outwardly by a total or partial covering of hair, and generally by having external teats or mammae, whence the name. Mammals always possess mammary glands, and suckle their young; the foetus is developed in the womb ; their leading anato- mical character is to have lungs composed of a highly vascular and minutely cellular structure throughout, and suspended freely in a thoracic cavity, separated by a muscular and tendinous septum or diaphragm from the abdomen. Mammals, like birds, have a heart composed of two ventricles and two auricles: they respire quickly, and have warm blood ; inspiration is performed chiefly by the agency of the dia- phragm : the right auriculo-ventricular valve is membranous, at least never entirely fleshy; and the aorta bends over the left, never over the right bronchial tube. The primary branches of the aorta are given off, not immediately after, but at a little distance from its origin, and there is less constancy in the order of their origin than in birds : the phrenic arteries, the coeliac axis, and the superior mesenteric ar- tery are always branches of the abdominal aorta, which terminates by dividing beyond the kidneys into the iliac arteries, from which spring both the femoral and ischiadic branches. The caudal or sacro-median artery, which in some long-tailed Mammals assumes the cha- racter of the continued trunk of the aorta, never distributes arteries to the kidneys or legs, as in birds. The kidneys are nourished, and derive the material of their secretion, exclusively from the arterial system : their veins are sim- ple, commencing by minute capillaries in the parenchyma, and terminating generally by a single trunk on each side, in the abdominal