509 MUSCLE. partly in the longitudinal dark lines, some- times being crosswise on the exterior, more or less lengthwise within. These cracks are often short, even, well defined; at other times the parts near them are much stretched, or quite disorganized, — differences depending on the brittleness or toughness of the particular fibre, which qualities vary very much in different specimens, according to the state of nutrition, period of examination, and other circumstances. Hence it is clear that the discs and fibrilla consist of the same parts, and merely result from the different direction in which the mass breaks up. To detach a fibrilla entire is to remove a particle from every disc, and to take away a disc is to abstract a particle of every fibrilla. Thus, every disc consists of a particle of every fibrilla, and every fibrilla of a particle of every disc. Therefore every fibrilla of the same fibre has the same number of particles, and every disc in like manner is composed of the same number of particles. If,now, isolated discs and fibrilke be examined under a high magnifying power, they will be found to bear out, in the fullest manner, the description that has been given. The discs are marked on the edge by the fragments of the longitudinal lines, and if regarded On their flat surface, present a finely granular appearance, the granules being equal in diameter with the fibrilla- (fig. 288). In fact, the dark lines be- Fig. 288. Surface of a disc separated from an ele- "5tt«^ mentary Jibre of a Lizard which had J^^&hi lain long in spirit. It displays the §\ -< . \ Jl!" ly tjinnitlur structure spohcu of in ihr ir.ri. Tin- (/ninnies are intended <o be represented equal in size. Mug- 'sljiSe' nified 500 diam. tween the granules are the fragments of the longitudinal lines of the interior of the fibre. Again, the fibrilla?, whether taken from the surface or from the interior, are always found to be marked at intervals by transverse dark lines, which are nothing more than the frag- ments of the transverse lines seen on and in the fibre. They uniformly correspond with them in distance and force (Jig. 287, c). Thus, whether the fibre cleave crosswise or lengthwise, the resulting fragments bear in their structure their respective portions of the lines, taking an op- posite course, and evincing a co-existent ar- rangement in the opposite direction; and when a detached disc or fibrilla is itself broken, the fracture follows the lines thus imprinted in its structure. It remains to inquire, what is the nature and meaning of the dark lines so often men- tioned ? They can be best examined in the separated discs or fibrillce; and they appear to be un- doubtedly the results of an unequal refraction of the light transmitted through the object. The light spaces intercepted between them, and which by their union constitute the discs and fibrilla!, have the aspect of small lenses or particles of higher refractive power than the connecting material, which consequently is in darkness when the inclosed spaces are in focus. By placing the object out of focus, however, the light and dark parts are reversed, which is precisely what occurs with true lenses. 1 have had a series of beaded rods of glass con- structed, which have exactly the same ap- pearance as the fibrillar; and when two of these are regarded between the observer and the window, one being in front of the other, and their beads corresponding, the dark circum- ferences, visible round the beads of each rod when seen separately, are found to be converted into transverse bars, crossing the rods at right angles in the interval of the beads ; or, in other words, forming the elements of the transverse stripes. My friend, Dr. Gruby, of Vienna, informed me that he had had spiral rods of glass con- structed, which, when placed in front of one another, have the same appearance as that often met with in the fibres, and he conceives the fibrilla? to be, consequently, spiral threads : an opinion advanced by Muys, to explain the phenomenon of contraction, but unnecessary for that purpose, and which is quite at variance with all I have observed on the subject. Such spiral rods, however apposed, can never pre- sent lines absolutely transverse, such as always exist on the unrmitHated Jibre, and generally on the detached Jibri/lee; and the minute zig- gags the stripes so often form, and which might, if constant, be possibly explained by the notion of spiral rods, are the mere result of a stretching and disturbance of the direction of the axes of the particles composing the discs and fibrilla. But the cleavage of the fibre into discs is especially opposed to the idea of a spiral form of each fibrilla. I think it is clear that the dark lines in both directions are not occasioned by a difference of colour, but solely by a variety in refraction ; but on what this difference in refraction de- pends it is more difficult to explain. Is the connecting material of a different refractive power, or of the same nature as the particles it unites? If of the same nature, it must be of smaller dimensions, and minute interspaces must be left; but of the existence of such in- terspaces there is no conclusive evidence. It seems more probable that the connecting ma- terial is less dense, and fills up every interval; but I do not pretend to determine what may be its nature, or whether it differs chemically from the parts it serves to join. It is remarkable that the direction of the cleavage should vary so much in different spe- cimens, without it being possible to say on what the variety depends: and the question has still to be determined, whether the trans- verse and longitudinal modes of union between the particles are the same. It is most likely that they are, and the differences in the regu- laiity and breadth of the transverse and longi- tudinal lines are easily explained on that sup- position. The transverse dark intervals between the particles, being all ranged on the same plane, the edge of which is directed to the observer, when he looks on the side of a fibre, appear as a sharp line, while the longitudinal dark intervals not being on a plane, are seen irre-