MOTION. 444 alternate leg on one side supports the animal, and urges the centre of gravity forwards, whilst the corresponding leg on the other side is raised and advanced to take a new position on the plane of motion. Such, at least, seems to be the process employed, but there is very great difficulty in ascertaining their motions with perfect accuracy ; we therefore give the above in part practically, and in part hypothe- tically. The Myriapods move with considerable agility ; usually run, and if disturbed, continue that pace for a great length of time. They have the power of climbing with facility the per- pendicular surfaces of trees, walls, &c. Arachnida.—The Arachnida are furnished with four pairs of legs, which render their mode of progression more complex, and more diffi- cult of observation, than that of the Decapods.* Their coxaa are articulated to the base of the cephalo-thorax by cotyloid joints arranged in an elliptical form, and directed horizontally outwards ; all the remaining articulations of the legs are ginglymoid, which is the best mode of articulation for the horizontal movements of the leg whilst urging the body forwards ; the tarsi, which are composed of a variable number of segments, terminate by a double or single hook, which affords to this tribe of animals the means of ascending vertically, whenever any surfaces present minute irregularities adapted for pre- hension ; the legs, projecting from the cephalo- thorax horizontally, increase the base of support. The centre of gravity is that of an ellipse. The Arachnida cannot ascend vertically on glass, but are enabled to walk in an inverted position on ceilings or rough surfaces without the assistance of their web. The organs of motion in spiders, though nearly constant in number, differ exceedingly in length; the general principle is, however, the same. After long and repeated observation, I disco- vered the order in which the eight legs of these animals are put in motion. If we first attend to the manner in which the legs are moved on either side singly, they will be found to move first the fore leg, then the fourth, then the third, and lastly, the second leg; that is, in the order 1, 4, 3, 2. On observing the motion of the legs on both sides of theanimal simultaneously, they are found to move the first right leg, then the fourth left; then the first left and the fourth right; then the third right and the second left; and lastly, the third left and the se- cond right (fig. 238). Of these, the first two sets are moved conse- cutively, like those of a quadruped, V, 4, 1,4'; the last two in pairs simultaneously, that is, 3', 2, then 3, 2'; and whilst the legs of one side of the animal are moving consecutively * The female is furnished with an additional pair, to enable her to carry her eggs. 238. in the order 1, 4, 3, 2, the legs of the other side are moving in pairs in the inverted order 4', 1', 2', 3'. In descending vertically by means of a newly-spun thread, they hang by one of the hind legs ; on ascending the same thread they employ three legs ; the two first on one side, and the first or second on the other; in running, the second pair of legs is placed in advance of the first, then those of the third be- fore the second, thus giving the feet a greater range of space at each step. The fourth pair, or hind let's, are directed backwards nearly pa- rallel to the line on which the animal is moving ; they seem to be chiefly used to support the posterior segments of the abdomen, but also exercise a limited action in propelling the body forwards. Four legs support the bodv almost, but not quite, simultaneously, as stated by Professor Muller, whilst the other four are raised. The progression of the spider is usually rapid ; it can run upon its web with great facility ; it can leap many times its own length in chace of prey; it can float during a limited period on water; and the facility with which it can spin and throw a cord across cavities from one fixed point to another, at a considerable distance, endows it with a mode of transit across spaces which is denied to many other animals. Decapoda.—The modes of progression em- ployed by the Decapods are both various and singular. Organized either to swim in rivers or seas, to walk and run on the dry land or at the bottom of water, both fresh and salt, they are furnished with organs of locomotion suitable for these different purposes. The five pairs of legs articulated at the base of the cephalo-thorax have the whole of the joints articulated, and directed to move on solids either laterally or directly backwards. The front legs are generally the most massive and powerful, throwing the centre of gravity for- wards nearly between the axes of their articu- lations. The Brachyurous Decapods, as the Cancer, Maiu, Sfc., present either a quadrilateral or a pyriform figure. They are generally destitute of the great elongations of the abdominal seg- ments and expansion of tail into tins for swim- ming, which we find in the Macrourous De- capods. The consolidated carapace of the de- capod tribe deprives them of lateral flexibility in the thoracic section of the trunk. The land species of Decapods, such as the Cancer cursus, or land crabs, are capable of running with such velocity, that a man on horseback has difficulty in keeping up with them. From their speed they were called by the more ancient natu- ralists etjid. In many species, such as the Inachm thoracicus, the Leptopus longipcs, and the Leptopodia sagittaria, the legs are greatly elongated, and consequently exercise a locomo- tive office resembling that of the tipula amongst insects, differing however from it in the direc- tion of the articulations, by which the pro- gression of these different classes is reversed. Thus in the Leptopus lungipes (fig- 239), the action resulting from the flexion and ex- tension of the legs in g J] g' J' will propel