67 1 NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human" Anatomy. The Enceph alon.) Fig. 381. The superior and part of the lateral surfaces of the enccphalon, exposed by the removal of the ralraria. The fair cerebri is sem in the lonqitvdinal fissure. The figures on the convolutions indicate those of opposite sides which present some deyree of symmetrical character. They will be referred to further on in the description of the hemispheres of the brain. the highest level, corresponds to the anterior fossa of the cranium. It rests, therefore, upon the roofs of the orbits, and its surface is on each side slightly concave to adapt it to the form of its resting-place. The continuation of the anterior median fissure separates its right and left portion, and the attachment of the falx to the crista galli of the ethmoid makes the distinction more complete. In a distinct sulcus, parallel to and immediately on each side of the longitudinal fissure, we find the olfactory pro- cess or nerve. This segment forms the inferior surface of what anatomists commonly designate as the anterior lobes of the brain. It presents the convoluted appearance which is conspicuous on the proper cerebral surface every where. A curved fissure of considerable depth, called the fissure of Sylvius, is the posterior limit of each anterior lobe. The fissure of Sylvius corresponds on each side to the posterior concave edge of the lesser ala of the sphenoid bone, which is received into it. It may be traced from within, commencing at a triangular flat surface (locus perforatus anticus), which corresponds to the posterior extremity of each olfactory process. From this situation it proceeds outwards and curves back- wards and a little upwards; its convexity is therefore directed forwards. Towards the lateral surface of the brain it becomes continuous with the fissures of neighbouring convolutions. The fissure of Sylvius is of considerable depth, especially at its internal extremity, and, like all the fissures of the brain, large or small,