721 u PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. portant to ascertain what is the mechanism by which these various actions take place. The most convenient way to discuss this point will be to examine into the value of cer- tain hypotheses which have been framed to explain it. We shall find it necessary in this discussion to keep before us two propositions in favour of whicli sufficient evidence has al- ready been adduced. These are, 1. That the brain or some part of it is essential to the production of mental nervous actions; in other words, that acts of volition and sensation cannot take place without the brain : and, 2. That the vesicular is the truly dynamic nervous matter, that which is essential to and the source of the developement of all nervous power. The first hypothesis which we shall notice is one of so much ingenuity that one is tempted thereby to adopt it, and would gladly do so if it were found sufficient to explain the pheno- mena, and if it were consistent with that sim- plicity which characterises the mechanism of the body. It originated with Dr. Marshall Hall, and has been advocated by him with great zeal and ability; it may be distinguished as the hypothesis of an excito-motory system of nerves, and of a true spinal cord, the centre of all physical nervous actions. This hypothesis may be stated as follows.* The various muscles and sentient surfaces of the body are connected with the brain by nerve fibres which pass from the one to the other. Those fibres destined for or proceeding from the trunk to the brain pass along the spinal cord, so that that organ is in great part no more than a bundle of nerve fibres going to and from the brain. These fibres are specially for sensation and volition—sensori-volitional. * I am very desirous that this hypothesis should be stated correctly, as I consider that both physio- logy and practical medicine are greatly indebted to Dr. Marshall Hall for the attention his labours have awakened to the inherent powers of the ner- vous system. Nevertheless I have shown in the text that great advances in our knowledge of these powers had been made by certain physiologists of the last century, whose views and researches had been completely or almost forgotten. I have collected the statement of Dr. Hall's hypothesis in the text chiefly from his later wri- tings. The history of Dr. Hall's labours on this part of physiology, as I gather it from his writings, appears to be as follows : —■ In 1832 a paper was presented by him to the Zoological Society, of which, so far as I can ascer- tain, no other record has been kept than that which is to be found in tlie printed summary of the Proceed- ings of that Society. I have not had any opportunity of consulting these proceedings, but find an extract from them printed in Dr. Hall's work entitled Me- moirs of the Nervous System, published in 1837. This paper was entitled, " A brief Account of a par- ticular Function of the, Nervous System," and its object was to point out the existence of a source of muscular action distinct from all those hitherto no- ticed by physiologists. The peculiarity of this mo- tion is stated to consist in its being excited by irrita- tion of the extreme portion of the sentient nerves, whence the impression is conveyed through the corresponding portion of the brain and spinal marrow as a centre, to the extremities of the motor nerves. Experiments upon salamanders, frogs, and turtles were detailed, from which Dr. Hall drew the follow- But, iii addition to these, there is, according to Dr. Hall, another class of fibres proper to ing conclusions: 1. that the nerves of sensibility are impressible in portions of an animal separated from the rest; in the head, in the upper part of the trunk, in the lower part of the trunk ; 2. that motions similar to voluntary motions follow these impressions made upon the sentient nerves; and, 3. that the presence of the spinal marrow is essen- tial as the central and cementing link between the sentient and motor nerves. Other experiments were detailed in this paper upon frogs rendered tetanic by a solution of opium; these showed that in this state the cutaneous nerves became " extremely susceptive, and the motor nerves extremely excitative." Decapitation of a tetanized frog did not destroy the tetanic condition of the trunk and extremities. "The exalted con- dition of the function of the sentient and motor nerves continued in each part." " All was changed in removing the brain and the respective portions of the spinal marrow." " These experiments," Dr. Hall continued, " ap- pear to me to establish a property or function of the nervous system, of the sentient and motor nerves, distinct from sensation and voluntary or in- stinctive motion/' Dr. Hall's next publication appears to have, been a paper read before the Royal Society on the 20th of June, 1833. This paper is entitled " On the reflex function of the medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis." Having noticed the con- clusion arrived at by Le Gallois, and confirmed by the reporters of the Institute, that section of the spinal marrow in the neck arrests only the respira- tory movements, leaving sensation and voluntary motion to remain in the whole body, he points out that the causes of muscular motion may be centric or eccentric in the nervous system. When the cause is eccentric, that is, distant from the nervous centres, Dr. Hall states that the phenomena are due to a peculiar function, which he considers had not previously been understood. Its charac- teristic is that it is 1 sxczted in its acti-n and ."■ //> a in its course ; in every instance in which it is ex- cited, an impression made upon the extremities of certain nerves is conveyed to the medulla oblon- gata or medulla spinalis, and is reflected along other nerves to parts adjacent to, or remote from, that which has received the impression." " It is by this reflex character," he adds, " that the function, to which 1 have alluded, is to bo distinguished from every other." Yet, curious to say, he assigns to it powers which certainly cannot, be excited in the reflex manner. He says, " the reflex function exists as a continuous muscular action, as a power presiding over organs not ac- tually in a state of motion, preserving in some, as the glottis, an open, in others, as the sphincters, a closed form, and in the limbs a due degree of equi- librium or balanced muscular action, a function not, I think, recognised by physiologists." Dr. Hall points out the distinctness of this func- tion from sensation and voluntary motion, and re- lates experiments on decapitated animals, (snakes, turtles, vipers, toads, frogs, and efts,) to show that the motions which occur in them are not spon- taneous but only excited, and that these " excited motions in decapitated animals arc dependent upon a principle different from sensation and volition." He then shows the difference between the reflex movements and those arising from irritability, by comparing the motion of the heart, when touched, with that of the glottis of an animal when similarly stimulated. Both movements take place equally after the removal of the brain ; but if the medulla oblongata be removed, the contractions of the larynx cease, while those of the heart continue. " The difference consists, then, in the presence of the medulla oblongata, which is essential to the 2 z 2*****