NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerve.) 592 bling, when perfectly fresh and unaltered by re-agents, the margin of an oil globule. When the nerve-tube has been treated with water, or has been allowed to remain a little time on a piece of glass, we observe within the tubular membrane a double-edged layer of a whitish material of different refracting power from either that which occupies the centre of the nerve- tube or the tubular membrane itself. The later after death the nerve is examined, the more dis- tinct does this inner layer become. The addi- tion of water, alcohol, and other re-agents always renders it more evident, and seems to destroy the apparent homogeneousness of the pulpy contents of the nerve tube. This layer within the tubular membrane is that which, according to Schwann, gives to the nerve-tubes their white colour; it is therefore called by him the white substance. Within this and occupying the centre i of the tube is a transparent, somewhat flattened, band, which is extremely delicate, and in which it seems impossible to recognize any more definite structure. Thus Remak and others describe three dis- tinct parts in the nerve fibre :—1, the outer in- vesting membrane, tubular membrane; 2, an inner layer of membrane (the white substance of Schwann) lying immediately within the first; 3, a central substance of nervous matter, called flattened band by Remak, and supposed by him to consist of several filaments, or the axis- cylinder of Rosenthal and Purkinje. It is evident that the contained matter of the nerve-tube is extremely soft: it yields under very slight pressure, and may be readily made to pass from one part of the tube to another. YY hen pressed out of the nerve tube, it is apt to assume the appearance and form of globules varying in shape and size, which are easily distinguished from the true nervous globules by the absence of nucleus. Firm pressure will also completely empty the tubular membrane, and thus afford us a good opportunity of examining its struc- ture, which has always appeared to present the same homogeneousness as the sarcolemma of muscles to which we have compared it. Some observers, however, admit a complexity of struc- ture in this tubular membrane; an appearance of longitudinal fibres has been noticed by Va- lentin and Rosenthal, and the former describes a fibrous arrangement, as of oblique fibres wind- ing in opposite directions, surrounding the tube.* The addition of water causes the contents of the tubular membrane to separate from the inner surface of the tube, owing to a shrivelling or coagulation which it excites in the nervous pulp. Alcohol produces a similar effect, but occasions a more perfect coagulation of the soft nervous matter; and it is particularly worthy of observation, that the complication of structure remarked by various observers and above de- scribed, in the tubular membrane as well as in its contents, is never seen in the perfectly fresh nerve, but is always rendered visible by keeping or by the influence of various re-agents. And * The spiral arrangement of fibres described by Barry is attributed by him to the membranous layer which forms within the tubular membrane, thewhite substance of Schwann, this fact may well excite a doubt as to the re- ality of the complex structure of the nerve- tube, as described in the preceding paragraphs. In a word, the real structure of the primitive nerve fibre appears to be a tube composed of homogeneous membrane, containing a delicate, soft, pulpy, semi-fluid and transparent medulla or nervous substance, which is readily disturbed by manipulation, and altered by the addition of the simplest substances—even water. The tubes when quite fresh are perfectly cylindrical; but pressure or separation alters them in shape like- wise, probably by disturbing the position of the nervous matter, pushing more than is natural into one part, and consequently diminishing the bulk of the contents of another part : the latter will consequently collapse, and the former become enlarged, distended, and even varicose. (Fig. 330.) The margins of nerve- tubes that have been separated, for this reason constantly appear wavy, and at other times distinct swellings or enlargements form in the course of the fibre, separated by constricted portions. These swellings sometimes occupy one side of the tube only: in shape they are globular orovoidal, and more frequently involve the whole tube; they exist at irregular intervals A, Nerve tubes becoming varicose at their en- trance into the spinal cord. At a, b, c the gradual diminution of the thickness of the wall is seen. B, a single nerve tube, cylindrical at one part, varicose in the rest. (From Valentin.)