NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 163 it may assume a chocolate or purplish brown or a slate colour, and if from obstruction to the bile-ducts, a variable shade of yellow. Its texture is firm and dense, but extremely fra- gile, the fracture presenting a granular appear- ance. The dimensions of the liver are very consi- derable, as may be inferred by recollecting that this is the largest organ in the body. Through the longest diameter from the extremity of the right to the edge of the left lobe, it measures about twelve inches; from before backwards, through the transverse diameter of the right lobe, about seven inches, and through the thick- est part of the right lobe, in a vertical di- rection, about four inches. These measure- ments, however, can only be received as an approximation to the average, for the size of the organ varies in different individuals ; thus it is larger in males than in females, and is more bulky in persons of sedentary habits than in those who are robust and active. Its weight is about five pounds; its relative weight to the entire body, as 1 to 36 ; and the specific gra- vity one half heavier than water. Chemical analysis of the human liver has shewn that in 100 parts, there are, of Water 61.79 Solid matters 38.21 Of 100 parts of the solid matters, 71.18 are soluble in water, hot or cold, or alcohol; and consist of, osmazome, stearine, elaine, resin, oleic and margaric acids, gelatine, and sali- vine. 28.72 are insoluble. 2.034 are salts; viz. chloruret, phosphate of potash, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron. Bullocks' liver, analysed by Braconnot, is, according to Berzelius, analogous to the pre- ceding, the differences being dependent solely upon a difference of manipulation. 100 parts contain, 55.50 water. 44.50 solid matters, composed of, Vessels and membranes .. 18.94 Soluble matters 25.56 100 parts of the pulp of liver contained, 58.64 water. 20.19 dry albumen. 6.07 matter very soluble in water ; slight- ly in alcohol; containing little nitrogen. 3.89 fat. 0.64 chloruret of potash. 0.47 phosphate of lime containing iron. 0.10 salt of potash combined with a combustible acid. Varieties in the liver may be referred to one of two heads—varieties in form, and varieties in position. Varieties in form occasionally occur, but they are more rare in the liver than in almost any other organ of the body. I have seen the left lobe so small as to appear but a mere ap- pendage to the right, being connected to it only by a thin and narrow isthmus. Cruveilhier re- cords an instance in which the left lobe was attached to the right merely by a vascular pe- dicle about half an inch in leugth; the extre- mity of the lobe being adherent to the upper pait of the spleen. Deep and narrow grooves are occasionally seen upon the convex surface of the right lobe running in an antero-posterior direction ; they correspond with projecting fasci- culi of the diaphragm, and occur generally in women who have laced tightly. This surface is also marked frequently in females with deep channels, which are formed by the pressure of the ribs, and are also the result of tight lacing. The liver is sometimes constricted in the middle from this cause, and a dense fibrous band, produced by thickening of the fibrous capsule, extends around it like a belt. The lobes are occasionally divided by deep fissures into several additional lobes ; the liver in this case presents a character which is normal amongst the lower animals. In a few in- stances the fossa for the gall-bladder has been found excavated so deeply as to render the fundus of the sac apparent through an open- ing on the upper surface of the liver, a pecu- liarity which is also normal amongst some of the lower tribes of animals. Varieties of position are more frequent than those of diversity of form. During utero-gesta- tion the liver is usually pressed considerably above its ordinary plane, so as to impede more or less the action of the diaphragm and pro- duce embarrassed respiration. In an extremely fat subject I once saw the diaphragm raised by the liver to a level, with the fourth intercostal space, measured near to the sternum. In its natural position the thin margin of the liver scarcely reaches the border of the thorax, but in women who have laced tightly during youth nothing is more common than to find this edge forced several inches below the base of the thorax, and altered in its form. In these cases the direction of the aspects of the organ are likewise changed; the convex surface looks di- rectly forwards, instead of upwards and for- wards, and lies in contact with the abdominal parietes. The concave surface is directed back- wards in place of downwards and backwards, and the posterior border is forced upwards. In a sketch from the subject, now before me, the greater part of the convex surface of the organ is in contact with the abdominal pa- rietes, and the free margin extends into the umbilical and lumbar regions. In another sketch, as a result of the enormous magnitude of the stomach from the same cause, the liver is raised almost perpendicularly, the extremity of the left lobe being in contact with the dia- phragm, and the right lobe in the right iliac fossa. A part of the liver has been found in the sac* of inguinal and umbilical hernia. Various peculiar appearances are observed in the liver of the foetus arising from arrest of development. Thus, for instance, the entire organ, or a part of it, may be situated in the chest, or from absence of development of the abdominal parietes the liver may form part of * Gunzius de Ilerniis, in Portal's Anatomic Me- dicale. M 2