INSTINCT. 11 t Kirby, loc. tit. p. 335. t Spence and Kirby, vol. ii. p. 21. forming a dike across the stream, almost straight where the current is weak, but where it is more rapid, curving more or less, with the convex side opposed to the stream. They construct these dikes or dams of the same materials as they do their lodges, viz. of pieces of wood of any kind, of stones, mud, and sand. These causeways oppose a sufficient barrier to the force both of water and ice; and as the willows, poplars, fkc.&c. employed in constructing them often strike root in it, it becomes in time a green hedge in which the birds build their nests. " By means of these erections the water is kept at a sufficient height, for it is absolutely necessary that there should be at least three feet of water above the extremity of the entry into their lodges, without which, in the hard frosts, it would be entirely closed. This entry is not on the land side, because such an open- ing might let in wild animals, but towards the water. " They begin to excavate under water at the base of the bank, which they enlarge upwards gradually, and so as to form a declivity, till they reach the surface ; and of the earth which comes out of this cavity they form a hillock, with which they mix small pieces of wood and even stones; they give this hillock the form of a dome from four to seven feet high, from ten to twelve long, and from eight to nine wide. As they proceed in heightening, they hollow it out below, so as to form the lodge which is to receive the family. At the anterior part of this dwelling, they form a gentle declivity termina- ting at the water, so that they enter and go out under water. " The interior forms only a single chamber resembling an oven. At a Little distance is the magazine for provisions. Here they keep in store the roots of the yellow water-lily, and the branches of the black spruce, the aspin, and the birch, which they are careful to plant in the mud. These form their subsistence. Their magazines sometimes contain a cart-load of these articles, and the beavers are so industrious that they are always adding to their store." * The nests so admirably constructed by what have been called the perfect societies of insects, the white ants or termites, the ants or formica?, the bees, wasps, and humble bees, are well known, and have been often described. The materials used by the two first genera are chiefly clay, with bits of straw or wood, cemented by animal secretions; the bees manufacture wax for the purpose. " The wasps and hornets are remarkable for the well-known curious papier-mache edifices, in the construction of which they employ fila- ments of wood, scraped from posts and rails with their own jaws, mixed with saliva, of which the hexagonal cells in which they rear their young are formed, and often their combs are separated and supported by pillars of the same material; and the external walls of their nests are formed by foliaceous layers of their ligneous paper." f * Ki.hy, vol. ii. p. 510. " The tree-ants, again, are remarkable for forming their nests on the boughs of trees of different kinds; and their construction is sin- gular, both for the material and the architec- ture, and is indicative of admirable foresight and contrivance ; in shape they vary from glo- bular to oblong, the longest diameter being about ten inches, and the shortest eight. The nests consist of a multitude of thin leaves of cow-dung, imbricated like tiles upon a house, the upper leaf formed of one unbroken sheet covering the summit like a skull-cap. The leaves are placed one upon another in a wavy or scalloped manner, so that numerous little arched entrances are left, and yet the interior is perfectly secured from rain. They are usually attached near the extremity of a branch, and some of the twigs pass through the nest. A vertical section presents a number of irregular cells, formed by the same process as the exte- rior. Towards the interior the cells are more capacious than those removed from the centre, and an occasional dried leaf is taken advantage of to assist in their formation. The nurseries for the young broods in different stages of developement are in different parts of the nest."* What is most peculiar in the habitations of all these " perfect societies of insects," is the formation, by the same working members of these societies, of cells of different size and form, suited for the different classes or ranks of indi- viduals which, as we shall afterwards state, each of these associations comprises ; and the occasional alteration of the size and form of the cells, when circumstances occur, which will be afterwards mentioned, to make an alteration of their destination advisable. There are other examples among insects, of imperfect societies or associations, found tempo- rarily and during the larva state only, which unite in forming tents under which they feed, and which shelter them from sun and rain. This is done by the larvae of several species of butterfly and moth.f 4. The next instincts which may be noticed under this head are those connected with the hybernation of animals ; for in almost every case in which this faculty (which is found so gene- rally in the lower tribes, particularly reptiles and insects, as well as in the order Cheiroptera and several others of the higher animals,) exists, there is attached to it some instinctive propensity, prompting the animal, even although it be not one of those which form houses for themselves, at least to search for some suitable residence in which it may be sheltered during the winter, whether under ground, under stones or timber, under the bark of trees, &c; and it is very re- markable that their hiding places are often found, or formed, long before the weather has become very cold. " I am led to believe from my own observation," says Mr. Spence, " that the days which the majority of coleopterous insects select for retiring to their hybernaculaare some of the warmest days of autumn, when * IbiH. p. 340.