PERINEUM. 926 ing portion of the urethral canal, explain this sufficiently ; nor should it be forgotten that the muscular girth formed by the acceleratores urinoe is often the seat of spasm. The error in catheterism of most frequent occurrence here is the perforation of the floor of the urethra at the bulb, after which the ex- tremity of the instrument passes between the rectum and the urethra. The surgeon commits this mistake by neglecting to depress the handle of the catheter in time to raise the point out of the sinus of the bulb into the membranous portion, and so much the more readily as the slightest force exercised in this wrong direction is sufficient to perforate the spongy tissue. The premature depression of the handle of the catheter may likewise injure the urethra, but in a different manner, for if that ma- noeuvre be executed too soon and with undue force, the point of the instrument will lacerate the upper wall of the canal anterior to the tri- angular ligament. A difficulty may, however, be experienced in entering the membranous portion of the urethra, even though the handle of the catheter be depressed at the proper time; the surgeon in sucli cases fails to "hit off" the aperture in the triangular ligament which transmits the urethra, and the point of the instrument swerv- ing laterally, comes to press against the front of the triangular ligament at one side of the orifice, instead of traversing the orifice itself. To guard against such a casualty, care must be taken to keep the point of the catheter fairly in the middle line, and (should any obstruction arise) to exercise slight traction upon the penis for the purpose of rendering tense the fibrous covering of the bulb, and in that manner stretching the opening in the triangular ligament. From these principles it clearly follows that, except under peculiar circumstances, curved instruments are to be preferred, for their adapta- tion to the curvature of the canal enables them to reach the bladder without exercising undue pressure upon any part of the passage ; whilst the straight staff conducted ever so skilfully must to a certain extent strain or disturb the permanently curved portion of the urethra. But, besides this obvious advantage, the natural impediments to catheterism (placed chiefly along the floor of the passage) are also most easily surmounted by the curved instrument, for its point can at any moment be readily raised by the operator, whilst he accomplishes the same object much more imperfectly in using the straight staff. It cannot be denied, however, that, for certain purposes, straight instruments possess a decided superiority, and therefore every surgeon should be prepared to employ them when the occasion suits. The preceding outline describes with suffi- cient accuracy the course and relations of the principal organs belonging to the perineum, and therefore it now only remains to study the anatomy of this region from below, according to the usual method of dissection. The subject is of course supposed to be placed in the ordinary position, with a full-sized staff introduced into the bladder, the rectum artificially distended, the scrotum raised and drawn forwards, the hands bound firmly to the ankles at each side respectively, the pelvis elevated on a block, and the knees separated to a convenient distance from each other. Prepared in this manner, the perineum pre- sents anteriorly a well-marked median promi- nence corresponding to the urethra, and which for obvious reasons enlarges considerably in the living subject during erection. At either side of this urethral prominence a parallel de- pression exists, external to which the resisting edges of the rami of the ischium and pubis may be always readily recognised by the finger. At the posterior part of the perineum the point of the coccyx may be felt distinctly in the middle line ; the tuberosities of the ischia covered by a great depth of soft parts project remarkably at the sides, constituting the extreme lateral limits of the region, whilst the mid space between these eminences exhibits a deep depression containing the anus. In front of the anus a central elevation of the skin termed the raphe extends forwards along the perineum, and may be traced distinctly to the scrotum and penis; it serves as a guide to the surgeon in many operations, pointing out the middle line accu- rately so long as the integuments retain their normal relations. Integument.—The characters of the cuta- neous covering of the perineum are not uniform throughout; in some situations its thickness is very considerable, whilst in others it appears remarkably delicate. In front the skin becomes gradually finer as it approaches the scrotum, and at the margins of the anus its delicacy is extreme; but in the neighbourhood of the tuber ischii and along the edge of the gluteus maximus it possesses great density and offers considerable resistance to the scalpel: at the circumference of the region it in fact gradually assumes the properties of the neighbouring te- gumentary membrane, resembling that of the scrotum anteriorly, merging insensibly into the integument of the buttock and thigh laterally, and even approaching to the characters of mu- cous membrane in the vicinity of the gut; it is generally of a dark brown colour in the healthy adult, and of a lighter hue in the child ; but there are in this respect numerous individual varieties ; the darker the teint the more highly developed usually are the subjacent muscles. Cutaneous follicles abound in the perineum and occur in greatest numbers near the anus and at the root of the scrotum, where their secre- tions are most required. The skin around the anus is thrown into rugae disposed in a radiated manner, and which produce a puckered appear- ance so long as the orifice remains contracted : they disappear during its dilatation, and are de- signed to favour the extreme distension to which the anal extremity of the intestine is occasion- ally subjected during defbecation. The folds in question become at times the seat of fissure, ulceration, or excrescence, which may demand surgical interference for their relief. In the lateral operation of lithotomy the first incision should commence at the left side of the raphe, about an inch or an inch and a quarter