993 PISCES. circumstance which proves that their brain does not grow in the same proportion as the rest of the body; indeed Cuvier found the dimen- sions of the brain nearly similar in individuals of the same species, though one might be double the size of the other. Brain of Perch, upper surface. (A fter Cuvier.) a, cerebellum; b, hollow (cerebral) lobes; c, ol- factory lobes; other letters as in the two following figures. The encephalon consists of a series of lobes situated one behind the other (Jig. 526), con- cerning the precise analogies of which no two authors seem to be agreed. In the following account of its general structure we shall there- fore closely adhere to Cuvier's masterly analysis of the organization of the brain of the Perch, at the same time, however, noticing the opinions of anatomists, and the principal variations, ob- servable in other Fishes, from the form of brain selected for special description. The anterior pairof lobes (figs. 526,527, c,c) invariably give origin to the olfactory nerves, and consequently are very generally called the olfac- tory lobes of the brain. Their surface is most frequently smooth, but occasionally marked, as for example in the Cod, with slight sulci. Their relative size varies very much, but they are generally, but not always, smaller than the succeeding pair of lobes (b, b). They are con- nected with each other inferiorly by a commis- sure, which is sometimes double, and the in- ternal fibres of the medulla oblongata may be distinctly traced into their substance. In front of these olfactory lobes there are gene • rally one and sometimes two pairs of ganglia (figs. 526, 527, 528, i, i) connected with the origins of the olfactory nerves, which, when very large, might be mistaken for additional lobes of the brain. They are, however, never connected by commissural fibres to their fellows of the opposite side, and the olfactory nerve can be traced along their under surface as far as the proper anterior lobes of the encephalon (c, c). Internally they frequently present a ventricular cavity, which communicates beneath the ante- rior commissure with that of the cerebral masses next to be described. The second pair of cerebral lobes (figs. 526, 527, 528, b, b) are of an oval form, and are re- markable from the circumstance that they enclose a wide cavity or ventricle, whence they have been designated by some anatomists the hollow lobes (fig. 527, b). They consist, like the cerebral lobes of the higher Vertebrata, of two layers, which are generally easily separable; the outer layer consisting of grey or cineritious matter, the inner layer of the white or fibrous substance of the bram, the fibres of the latter running trans- VOL. III. versely so as to line the roof of the ventricular cavity, which is common to both sides of the brain; for although the hollow lobes are united to each other superiorly along the median line so as to form a kind of corpus collosum with a me- dian raphe, there is no septum between the two sides. The fibres lining the ventricular cavity seem to emerge from two semicircular bands of grey matter (Jig. 527, h, li) situated upon the floor of the ventricle. Fig. 527. Brain of Perch, with the " hollow lobes" laid open, and the cerebellum turned to the right side. (After Cuvier. J Letters a, b, c, as in last figure ; g, supplementary cerebellic lobes ; h, fibres lining the ventricular cavity. At the bottom of the ventricular cavity there are likewise, in osseous Fishes, two or four tubercles of grey substance placed in front of the base of the cerebellum, and arching over the canal which leads from the large cavity contained in the hollow lobes into the ventricle behind the cerebellum, which it is impossible to consider as anything else but the representa- tive of the fourth ventricle of the superior classes of animals, and the canal of communication as the " iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum'' of the human anatomist, the tubercles themselves being evidently the homologues of the tubercula quadrigemina. The external fibres of the medulla oblongata are easily traceable into the lobes we are now considering, which, moreover, are connected with each other by a broad commissure exactly corresponding in situation with the anterior commissure of the human brain. There can, therefore, be no reasonable doubt that the " hollow lobes" of the Fish's brain represent the cerebral hemispheres of the encephalon of Reptiles, Birds, and Quadrupeds, and, with the data above given before us, it is not difficult to point out the analogies of the remaining parts not displayed in the figure. Thus, immedi- ately behind the commissure is a passage leading into the cavity, which corresponds to the third ventricle, and which leads as usual to the infundibulum and towards the pituitary body that occupies its usual situation at the base of the brain. The internal fibres of the medulla oblongata may be traced forwards into these hollow cere- bral lobes, in which they spread out as in the higher animals. At the inferior surface of the brain, beneath the " hollow lobes" just described, are two oval protuberances (fig. 528, e, e), which are desig- nated by Cuvier the inferior lobes, between the anterior extremities of which is situated the 3 s