OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 843 arrangement which is here convenient to permit of the extrusion of the egg through the pelvic cavity, and may be permitted in this race of animals in consequence of the prodigious con- solidation of the dorsal parts of the pelvis. In the Cetacea only the pubic elements of the pelvis are developed, both ilia and ischia being deficient, so that they are quite detached from the rest of the skeleton. In all other Mammalia they correspond both in position and general arrangement with what is found in the human subject. The marsupial hones Eire peculiar to the mar- supial division of Mammals. They are two triangular pieces articulated to the anterior sur- face of the pubic bones, and imbedded in the parietes of the abdomen behind the marsupial pouch, which they assist in supporting. It has been asserted that rudiments of these bones may be traced even in the human subject in the shape of minute cornicles sometimes at- tached to the pubis. The femur represents, in the posterior extre- mity, the humerus of the anterior, articulating immediately with the pelvic arch, but modified in form according to the difference of its func- tion. In Fishes this element of the skeleton does not exist at all, the digital rays and tarsal bones of the ventral fin, the representative of the posterior extremities of other Vertebrata, being affixed immediately to the pelvic bone, which sustains it. In the Perennibranchiate Amphibia it is but very feebly developed when the hinder extremities are present, which is not always the case. In the Anourous Amphibia, however, as, for example, in the Frog, it sud- denly assumes a very great importance in ac- cordance with the saltatory habits of those Batrachia. It exists also in all other quadru- pedal forms of the Reptilia, only modified in shape according to their different modes of life. In Birds the femur is short and strong, but presents no peculiarity requiring special notice. In the Mammalia, likewise, except in the Cetacea, it is invariably present, its size and shape altering in the different tribes as their habits vary. The tibia, the principal bone of the lea; in all quadrupedal Vertebrata, does not exist in Fishes, where all the elements of the skeleton, usually interposed between the foot and the pelvis, are found to be deficient. In the Batrachian, Saurian, and Chelonian Reptiles it is invariably a bone of very consi- derable importance, whether it be united with the other bone of the leg, the fibula, or remain separate and distinct. In the leathered races this bone is of great strength, having to support the weight of the body in a very unfavourable position, and in all the Mammalia that are possessed of poste- rior extremities it is necessarily present. The fibula, which in the hinder extremity re- presents the ulna of the anterior limb, like that bone, is not unfrequently very imperfectly deve- loped, especially where great strength is re- quired in this part of the limb, and mobility becomes a secondary object. In Fishes it is not yet developed. In the Batrachian Reptiles it exists, but is generally so completely anchy- losed to the tibia throughout its whole extent as only to be distinguished from that bone by very accurate examination. In the Saurian Reptiles it is a distinct and very important bone, as is likewise the case in the Chelonians, al- though here the two bones of the leg are so firmly connected by ligaments that but little motion is permitted. The fibula of Birds is a mere rudiment, a slender splint appended to the external aspect of the tibia, distinct above, but infenorly com- pletely lost, being gradually solidly united to the latter bone, with which it becomes com- pletely confused. In the Monotremata, notwithstanding the near relations that exist between these singular quadrupeds and the feathered races, the fibulas are very largely developed, as likewise in most of the unguiculate Quadrupeds; but in the un- gulate Mammalia the fibula is reduced to a mere rudiment attached to the outer side of the tibia. The tarsal bones are, in the posterior extre- mity, the representatives of the carpus of the anterior, but from various circumstances are very considerably altered in form, and not un- frequently differ in number from the latter, even in the same animal, in consequence of the very different offices not unfrequently assigned to the two pairs of limbs. In Fishes they are very imperfectly developed, or confused with the other elements entering into the composition of the ventral fin. In Frogs and Toads, how- ever, they are very distinctly formed, being in these amphibious reptiles six in number; but of these the two proximal ones, corresponding to the astragalus and us calcis, are remarkably elongated, and by the uninformed might easily be mistaken for the tibia and fibula. In Sau- rian and Chelonian Reptiles they present what may be called their normal or medium state of developement, the os calcis being here left pro- minent for the insertion of the extensor muscles of the foot. No tarsal bones are distinguishable in the adult bird, the few elements which in the young animal are developed by distinct points of ossification being rapidly confused with the metatarsal portion of the limb, so that both these divisions of the hinder extremity are here represented by a single piece, to which the appropriate name of tarso-metatarsal bone has consequently been applied. In all unguiculate Mammalia the tarsal bones are well developed and more or less resemble the human; but in the Ungulata, owing to the extreme length of the metatarsus or canon bone, they seem to occupy a position corresponding with that of the knee in other animals; and the remarkably prominent os calcis, to which the tendo Achillis is fixed, is well calculated to remind the anatomist of the olecranon of the ulna. The metatarsal bones are but a repetition of the metacarpal bones of the atlantal ex- tremity, and immediately support the digital phalanges of the foot, varying in number as the