NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 44 terval it contracted again, and slowly and gra- dually recovered an action of considerable fre- quency and vigour." " A frog was made perfectly insensible by the application of laudanum or alcohol. Its respiration ceased. It did not move on the application of any irritant. The circulation in the web was carefully observed. When it had long continued in the same enfeebled state without change, the thigh was crushed. The circulation in the minute and capillary vessels ceased at once, and never returned. The sto- mach was now crushed in the same manner. The heart ceased to beat for many seconds. Its beat then returned, but never regained its former force." In these experiments we have the sudden influence of shock and its gradual subsidence. The experiment is peculiarly interesting in many points of view :— 1. it is the only one on record of the effects of shock induced solely and exclusively through the medium of the ganglionic system; 2. it exemplifies the effect of shock or excessive stimulus on the heart, with its gradual though incomplete subsidence. The connexion of the ganglionic system with the irritability of the visceral muscles,—the heart, the stomach, the intestines, &c. forms the subject of an experimental investigation, in which I am at this moment engaged, and the results of which I purpose to give under the head of vis nervosa and vis insita. It is pro- bable that the ganglia are to the internal mus- cular organs what the spinal marrow is to the muscles of the limbs, viz. the power of irritabi- lity, &x. This inquiry is founded on a fact first ascertained by myself, that, in spring, we may, by portions at a time with considerable intervals, totally destroy the brain and spinal marrow in the frog, eel, &c. leaving the circula- tion in the web or the fins and tail.* We have thus isolated the ganglionic from the rest of the nervous system, on which we may therefore proceed to experiment, watching the effect of various agents tin the circulation and on the action of the heart, the stomach, the intestines. We have thus passed in review in its anato- mical, physiological, zoological, pathological, and those peculiar relations, the question of the irritability of the muscular fibre. It only remains for us to advert, once more, to the ex- treme importance of this principle in physiology : all physiology is involved, indeed, in the topic of the nervous system and the vascular system, and the principle of irritability seems, with its various and appropriate stimuli, to be placed between those two. (Marshall Hall.) JOINT.—See Articulation, and the arti- cles under the headings of the several joints for both the normal and abnormal anatomy. KIDNEY.—See Ren. KNEE-JOINT (normal anatomy of the). Gr. yo'w ; Lat. genu; Fr. genou; Germ. * Op. cit. p. 136'. Kniegelenk; Ital. ginocchio. The knee-joint, the largest joint in the body, results from the articulation of the os femoris with the tibia below and the patella anteriorly. It admits of extensive motion as a ginglymus, to which is added an arthrodial motion, or a small degree of rotation of the leg and foot, when the joint is partly flexed. The articular surfaces are large and complicated, the ligaments numerous, and the joint chiefly superficial; circumstances necessary to the freedom, stability, and sym- metry of the limb, but exposing this important articulation to frequent accident and disease. It is intended here to describe so much of, a, the bones entering into the formation of this joint, and, b, the cartilages, ligaments, &c, as may be necessary to the elucidation of, c, the mechanical Junctions. (a.) Bones. The shaft of the os femoris, which in the middle of the thigh is triangular, becomes of a four-sided form as it approaches the knee, in consequence of the bifurcation of the linea aspera. This rough ridge, which in the middle of the bone forms a prominent pos- terior angle, divides on entering its inferior third into two diverging lines which terminale at the convex articulating eminences called condyles; a flat triangular surface of bone is thus left, where the popliteal vessels lie. The outer line is most strongly marked, and gives origin to the vastus externus and short head of the biceps flexor cruris: the inner line is deficient near the upper part, over which the femoral vessels pass into the ham; it gives attachment below to the vastus internus and adductor magnus. The internal condyle is narrower and more pro- jecting behind than the external; and in rela- tion to the shaft of the bone, it appears to extend further downwards; but the natural oblique position of the os femoris brings the condyles nearly horizontal. The greater width of the pelvis in women gives, ceteris paribus, a greater obliquity to the os femoris than in men. The condyles are separated behind by a deep fossa, out of which the crucial ligaments take their origin ; their articulating surfaces are con- vex both in the transverse and in the antero- posterior directions, until in front they coalesce into one pulley-like surface over which the patella plays in the motions of the joint: this trochlea is convex from above downwards, but concave from side to side ; its outer half is more prominent than the inner, and extends higher up the corresponding condyle. Above the trochlea there is a flattened or slightly depressed surface, upon which the patella partly rests during complete extension of the joint. The thickness of the os femoris from front to back undergoes little change till the condyles sud- denly jut out behind, and the edges of the trochlea rise up in front; but from side to side the shaft of the bone increases in breadth as it approaches the knee, the two postero-lateral surfaces winding gradually round to become antero-lateral, at the same time diverging ra- pidly to form a smooth slope on the side of each condyle. Towards the posterior part of each of these sloping surfaces, there is an irregular prominence called the tuberosity, {ox the attach-