358 MILK. distinguished would be s^th or 7540th of a line square, and thus they would be much la. •ger than those of whose existence a very simple process of reasoning is sufficient to con- vince us. Bibliography.—The following works may be referred to.—Hooke, Micrographia, Loud. 1665. Baker, Of Microscopes, Lond. 1785 Adams, On the Microscope, Lond. 1787. Brewster, Treatise on the Microscope from Encyclopaedia Britannica, also Treatise on new Philosophical Instruments. On Optics, Lardner's Cyclopaedia. Lister, in Phil, Trans. 1829. Chevalier, Des Microscopes, Par. 1839. Mandl, Traite Pratique du Microscope, Par. 1839. Pritchard and Goring, Micrographia ; also, by the same authors, Microscopic Illustrations and Microscopic Cabinet. Slack, Holland, and Turrell, in Trans. Soc. Arts, vol. 49. Penny Cyclop, art. Microscope. Hildebraudl, Anatomie, Band. i. p. 128. ( W. B. Carpenter.) MILK.—(r**«, Gr.; lac, Lat.; le hit, Fr.; die Milch, Germ.; latte, Ital.) The secretion of the mammary gland. In treating of the milk it will perhaps be best, previous to entering upon its description as produced by the human subject, to give a general account of the secretion as obtained from the cow, such being the most familiar example afforded to us. Milk may be regarded as a serous fluid, hold- ing in suspension minute white globules com- posed of casein and fatty matter. These glo- bules have been microscopically examined by Raspail, who states them to have a diameter of .00039 inch, and to disappear on the addition of a solution of potassa. The most recent microscopic observations on the milk are those of Professor Nasse, of Marburg,* who gives the following as the constituents of the normal secretion of the mammary gland:—1st, smooth, homogeneous, transparent oil globules and large oil globules, also the common milk globules; 2d, cream globules, distinguishable by their facette-like appearance; 3d, granu- lated yellow corpuscles; 4th, the lamellae of epithelium; 5th, the more or less turbid medium in which the four preceding kinds of corpuscles are suspended. The common milk globules are composed of fatty matter, which dissolves rapidly in ether. No membrane can be seen investing them. The first nine days after delivery the largest globules measure ^th of a line in diameter, but subse- quently become as large as -r^th, but they vary in size throughout lactation. The cream glo- bules are considered by Professor Nasse to be formed after the milk has been drawn or exposed to the air, for in fresh woman's milk no globules but the common milk globules above described are discernible: the cream globules occur as large as j'jth of a line in dia- meter. The yellow granulated corpuscles are peculiar to the colostrum ; their diameter is from i^th to jigth of a line; some are found mea- suring J5th of a line in length and ^th in breadth. They are composed of fatty matter. The author considers them analogous to the mucus cells cast off from mucous membranes, and thinks that perhaps they come from the gland ducts. From my own observations I am inclined to * Muller's Archiv, 1840, Heft iii. p. 258. think that the cream globule of Nasse exists even in fresh milk, and may easily be seen in specimens containing but little fatty matter. I lately saw them in the milk of a woman who had suckled for seven months. I have not been able to rid the milk of globules by ether or liq. potassED. If milk be agitated with ether, then allowed to stand, and the lower stratum of fluid examined, we can detect distinct globules in it—globules of all sizes, and having the appearance described by Nasse as belonging to the cream globule. From the variety in size which I have so constantly observed, I cannot understand how any author can have made up his mind to give an admeasurement to the globule of milk; for my own part, after much careful observation, I feel convinced that the milk contains nothing which deserves the name of a true organic globule. That globules exist I do not deny, and these I believe to be what have been described by Nasse as cream glo- bules, appearing when milk has creamed, be- cause the adhering fatty matter is separated; but, notwithstanding, being very obvious before creaming occurs, in specimens of fresh milk containing a small proportion of fatty matter. The serum in which these particles float is composed of water, holding in solution an alkaline lactate and chloride with traces of sulphate and phosphate, lactates of lime and magnesia, sugar of milk, and animal extractive. Oxide of iron and an earthy phosphate are to be detected in the ashes of milk, but these, in all probability, are derived from the casein of the secretion. When milk is allowed to remain at rest for some hours, a pellicle forms on its surface, varying with the nature of the milk : this is what is called the cream, and consists of the fatty or butyraceous matter of the milk in combination with a varying proportion of casein. It is from this cream that butter is obtained by churning, by which operation the butyraceous particles unite into a mass to the exclusion of the casein, which remains suspended in the serum, and thus forms a mixture known by the name of butter-milk or lait de beurre of the French. The whole of the casein, however, cannot be removed from the butter by churning, its minute particles being entangled by the cohering fatty globules, and it is in a great measure owing to its presence that butter is more or less prone to become rancid and de- composed. Milk from which the cream has been removed still retains the greater part of the casein, and when this is precipitated from it by the action of rennet, we obtain a curd, which, being pressed and dried, constitutes cheese. The clear liquor separated from this curd contains the more soluble matters of milk, viz. the alkaline salts with the sugar of milk, and in Switzerland a considerable quantity of this sugar is manufactured from whey and used for household purposes. I have thought it best to notice the various operations in domestic economy to which the milk is subjected, not only because by them several of its proximate elements are eliminated, but likewise that the reader may have some familiar object with which to connect the following account of the