726 NOSE. suture of the skull which remain longest un- ossified : in ordinary cases, indeed, they do not close even in the latest periods of life. This, in some measure, distinguishes man from the other quadrumana: in the Chimpanse, the nasal bone is single; in the Orang, also, it usually is so; and in the adult Siamang (whose skull approaches nearest in form to that of man) and other Gibbons, the nasal bones are always united.* But a more distinctive character is the breadth and shortness of these bones in man, and the elevation of their inner borders, on which the projection of the upper part of the bridge of the nose depends; a projection in which the nose of the lowest negro surpasses that of either the Chimpanse or the Siamang. The structure of the bones of the nose pre- sents little that is peculiar. The thin lamellae of the ethmoidal cells, the turbinated bones, and others of similar structure, receive their mate- rials of nutrition entirely from the bloodvessels of the Schneiderian membrane. They contain no vascular canals within their own substance. Their corpuscles and minute canals which pro- ceed from them are larger than those of average size : the former are very numerous and closely set, and the latter ramify in all directions; arrangements which seem to be adapted to the combination of the least possible weight with the necessary firmness of support. Cartilages of the nose.—Of these, one com- pletes the septum, and the rest form the skele- ton of the lower and lateral portion of the exter- nal nose. The cartilage of the septum (septum mobile nasi) (fig. 400) is the only one immediately connected with the bones. It occupies, in ge- neral, nearly the middle vertical plane of the nose; but, like the osseous septum, it often deviates to one or the other side, and has sur- faces more or less curved. Its outline varies with the general shape of the nose, but is usually bounded by three unequally curved lines, of which the inferior is the longest, and the anterior and superior are of about equal length. Its superior border (a, Jig. 400) is fixed in the whole length of the groove which usually exists in the lower margin of the per- pendicular plate of the ethmoid bone : it is directed very obliquely backwards and down- wards, and at its posterior extremity is conti- Fig. 400. Cartilage of the septum nasi. 1, lateral ; 2, anterior view. * G. Vrolik, Recherches d'Anatomie Comparee sur \e Chimpanse, p. 4. Fig. 401. The cartilages of the ala of the nose in situ. nued with a curve into the lower border (b), of which a part fits in the same manner in the anterior margin of the vomer, while the remain- der projects straightforwards in front of the anterior nasal spine, and forms the base and middle part of the columna (sous-cloison,) or partition between the apertures of the nostrils. Anteriorly, this lower border of the cartila- ginous septum is continued with a curve which lies at the apex of the nose, into the anterior border (c). This last lies immediately be- neath the skin, and, becoming gradually thick- er, is continued upwards to the junction of the nasal bones, where the cartilage (at d) is thicker than at any other part. Of the lateral cartilages, two on each side are regularly found. The upper pair, (a, Jig. 401,) which are named superior, lateral, or triangular cartilages, have each in general the form of a triangle with its angles rounded off. In front they are continuous, or very closely connected with the upper half of the anterior edge of the cartilage of the septum;* but each of them projects a little beyond it, so that it lies in a kind of groove between them; and, sometimes, each is prolonged downwards in a free sharp process by its side. Behind, they are closely attached by fibro-cellular tissue to the rough part of the free margins of the nasal and superior maxillary bones. Below, their margins are connected with the cartilages be- neath them (b, jig. 401) by a lough but thin and pliant fibrous membrane, in which several small oval portions of cartilage are sometimes arranged in a row. The inferior cartilages (fig. 402, and b, Jig. 401) are also called pinnal cartilages, ox carti- lages of the ala, because they form the basis of the more freely moveable lateral parts of the * Hence Winslow, Bichat, and some others have described these as forming one nasal cartilage with the septum, and have divided the inferior cartilages into anterior and posterior portions.