533 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. We need scarcely say that in the Agastrka no muscular system whatever can be detected, the living portions of their bodies being entirely made up of a soft granular parenchyma which only dubiously exhibits contractile movements under any circumstances. In the Polypiphera we find a very extensive group of animals naturally allied to each other in the general details of their economy, but offering very great diversity of structure and external form. In the simplest or gelatinous Polyps ( Hydrida) the acrite condition of the nervous and muscular tissues is most conspicu- ously exemplified. Examined under the mi- croscope, the entire substance of the minute gelatinous bag composing the body of the Hydra seems to consist of a glairy material, wherein are suspended coloured globules that constantly change their relative positions, and move about from place to place as the creature contracts, or extends different parts of its sub- stance, but not a fibre or filament is discernible passing in any direction, nevertheless the move- ments of the Hydra appear to be performed with facility, and its powers of locomotion are considerable. In the Alcyonida and other compound cor- tical Polyps, muscles of any kind are equally invisible, and the contractions observable either in the substance of the common body or in the numerous hydriform mouths that minister to the support of the general mass, seem to be entirely due to the approximation of molecules diffused through the entire substance of the animal, rather than dependent upon any thing like muscular structure ; nevertheless it has been stated, though perhaps erroneously, that some families (the Pcnnutulidte) are able to swim from place to place by consentaneous move- ments of the polyps and polyp-bearing arms with which many species are provided. The tubular Polyps are equally devoid of any thing like muscular fibre, nevertheless the soft and uncalcified membrane that connects the Polyps to the cells wherein they are lodged, and the Hydriform Polyps themselves, are en- dowed with the capability of performing all the movements required to protrude the flower-like bodies from the cups that contain them, and to seize and swallow the materials required for their support. But in every group of animals, as we ap- proach the most highly organized members of that group, we find the characters of a more exalted type of organization beginning to ma- nifest themselves, and thus in the Actinktd/e, which are obviously osculent between the Acrite Polyps and animals possessing a true muscular system, a fibrous arrangement of the contracting portions of the body becomes very distinctly recognisable, and a nervous filament may be displayed under favourable circum- stances passing round the oral extremity of the creature, and thus closely approximating the nematoneurose type of structure. The infuso- rial animalcules(Polygastrica, Ehren.) seem, as far as relates to their muscular system at least, to be strictly acrite animals, but such is their extreme minuteness, that much uncertainty still necessarily exists concerning their intimate organization. Their locomotive apparatus most frequently consists of fringes of vibratile cilia variously disposed, the movements of which are most probably dependent upon the exist- ence of a peculiar vital tissue distinct from muscle. In many species, e. g. the Proteus (Amccba dtffluens), the contractions of the body are extensive, so that even the outward form of the animalcule is perpetually changing, and some, the Vorticella, are attached to highly irritable pedicles of exquisite tenuity, that may be straightened or suddenly thrown into close spiral coils by some inherent power, the nature of which is as yet quite incompre- hensible. In some, as for instance Chilodon uncinatus, moveable hooks are found to be ap- pended to the surface of the animalcule, and some (Nassula) are provided with a peculiar dental apparatus, consisting of a minute cylin- der of horny filaments; nevertheless no appear- ance of muscular or nervous fibre has as yet been detected even in the largest and most conspicuous species. The Acalephs next claim our notice as members of the Acrite division of the animal creation, and in every point of their economy they strictly conform to the general characters belonging to this type of organization. (See Acrita.) Their bodies are soft, pellucid, and gelatinous, without any trace of muscular fibre being perceptible in their composition ; their digestive canals are excavated in the paren- chyma of the body, not contained in any abdo- minal cavity, and the canals through which nutrimentisconveyed todifferent partsof thesys- tem are entirely devoid of proper external coats; neither, as we believe, do nerves exist in any of the class, although, as we are well aware, two eminent observers have entertained a con- trary opinion. Professor Grant,* in his account of the anatomy of Cydippe pileus, describes a double ring of nervous fibre as surrounding one end of the alimentary canal of that beau- tiful little Acaleph, and has even figured ganglia distributed at intervals upon these circular cords, from which secondary nerves are de- scribed as emanating. Such a circumstance as the existence of nerves and ganglia in an ani- mal confessedly acrite, and presenting no traces of that type of structure which, in all other cases, invariably accompanies so elevated a condition of the nervous system, from its very singularity was well calculated to attract the notice of the physiologist, and we are ourselves quite satisfied that the distinguished professor has been led into error upon this point, most probably from having mistaken the circular canals, described by Delle Chiaje and others, as surrounding the oral extremity of the Beroes, and which are indeed frequently filled with an opaline fluid, for nervous fibre.f * Vide Transact, of the Zoological Society of London, vol. i. and the figure at p. 109, vol. i. of this work. t At the Uirmingham meeting of the British Association, during a very interesting discussion upon this point, it was agreed by Mr. Forbes and Mr. Thompson, whose qualifications for such re-