4-18 MOTION. by the flexion and elevation of the trunk in a single arc or curve, as seen in fig. 243. If during the extension of the reptile the tail be at a, it is by flexion advanced to e, during which motion the head is fixed at b ; the tail being then fixed at e, the body is suddenly ex- tended, and the head projected to h; so that in these two actions of flexion and extension the serpent has advanced through a space equal to a e or b h. The velocity of this mode is great, but will manifestly depend on the num- ber and magnitude of steps taken in a given time. This mode of progression is that used by the rattlesnake, when the greatest speed is ne- cessary in pursuit of prey, for instance, or in escaping from an enemy. When these flexions and extensions are performed with the greatest rapidity, the speed of the rattlesnake exceeds that of man. The principle of loco- motion in the fifth order is similar to that of the larvae of the Geometry, and might, with equal propriety, bear the same designation. The Amphisbaena walks with equal facility either backwards or forwards ; the lower jaw being supported by the tympanic bone, which is articulated to the cranium, is used by these serpents as a fulcrum for retrograde progres- sion. The Boa and the Python climb trees with great facility ; this they effect in a spiral curve, the scuta of various segments, through their enormous length, laying hold of the bark; and aided by the great flexibility of their vertebral column, they are enabled to ascend in opposi- tion to the force of gravity. They select trees in the vicinity of streams and rivers, and sus- pending themselves from the branches in an inverted position by means of their prehensile tail (which is furnished with a corneous hook on each side the anus), seize and crush qua- drupeds even of large size as they approach to drink. Serpents are also capable of darting, either from the curved position or the spiral coil, by the sudden elevation of the body to an erect posture; such is the movement of the deadly Cobra de Capello in its attack on the uncon- scious traveller, and in the same manner the common Viper inflicts its less dangerous wound. The erection of the trunk, either from the ver- tical curve of the Rattlesnake or the horizontal coil of the Cobra, is said to generate a projec- tile force sufficient to raise the reptile above the plane of motion. Although destitute of the limbs with which the higher vertebrata are furnished, serpents are endowed with the power •of transporting themselves from place to place with a velocity greater than many bipeds and quadrupeds. Their locomotive powers enable them to chase and capture their prey ; to stride across plains; to ascend and descend hills and precipices, inaccessible to most of the higher animals; to climb trees; to swim lakes, rivers, and seas; and thus not only to provide the means of subsistence, but also to choose those places of abode which are most suitable to their wants, pleasures, or habits. Amphibia.—In consequence of the amphi- bious nature of many Batrachia their loco- motive organs are adapted both to terrestrial and aquatic modes of progression. The cal'ni-= vorous Caducihranchiates in an adult state present an almost quadrilateral figure, and as many of the osseous elements of the skeleton (which in fishes are separate) are anchylosed together, they give solidity to the framework, and afford levers and fulcra for muscular action to sustain the shocks necessarily connected with a terrestrial mode of locomotion. In the Frog the anterior extremities are short compared with the posterior; the toes are furnished with a broad web, consisting of an expansion of the integuments, a structure which, with the length and strength of the posterior extremities, renders them well adapted for leaping and swimming. The eight vertebrae have a ball and socket articulation, which gives them some degree of motion on each other. Their legs being directed horizontally prevent the Amphibia from supporting their trunks above the plane of position. In a state of repose, the Frog assumes a sitting posture; the thighs are flexed forwards and outwards ; the legs are flexed backwards on the thighs ; the lengthened feet and toes are again directed forwards ; the trunk is inclined to the vertical plane at an angle of about 45°, which brings the centre of gravity within the base formed by the pelvis and posterior extremities, leaving the anterior extremities either free or lightly touching the ground. The legs, in a state of flexion, are ready on the least alarm to project the body forward by their sudden extension. The Bull-frog is said to project itself six or eight feet at each leap, and the leaps are re- peated so rapidly that it is captured with diffi- culty, unless chased at a great distance from the water. It will also spring over a wall five feet in height. The Hyla, ovTree-frog, has each of its toes furnished with a concave disc, which acts as a sucker to enable the animal to attach itself to branches of trees, amongst which it runs with great facility. The feet of the Rana esculents and Rana pi pa are palmated for swimming, those of the Rana bufo semi- palmated, and the Rana calomella and others have two osseous tubercles on the palms of the hands, which enable them to climb the planes of old walls in order to secrete them- selves in the crevices. The urodelous kinds of Caducihranchiates are adapted for land and water; those adapted for terrestrial progression have the tail of a cylindrical form, as in Salamandra, whilst, those adapted for the water, as the Triton, have a pisciform tail, the planes of which are directed vertically. The perennibranchiate tribes of Amphibia residing constantly in the water, and with very rudimentary atlantal and sacral extremities, have the trunk elongated and pisciform, and the tail compressed laterally to give a greater impulse in swimming, as in the Proteus, the Axolotl, Siren, &c. Saurian Reptiles.—The Sauria have com- monly four legs, but a very few are restricted to two. Of these, some are organized for pro- gression on land, others for locomotion both by