MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 493 Fig. 285. Capillaries on the rectum of the Frog, a, a, arteries; b, b, veins. unusual dimensions, apparently to allow of the more free transit of the blood, which is here propelled feebly by the vis a tergo acting through the capillaries that form the portal vein. Though it has not been so described, I believe, from injections that I have made, that the whole organ is one such plexus, and that if it were possible to abstract from it all vessels larger than capillaries, and to leave these entire, all the lobules would still be connected together by capillary channels identical with those of which they themselves principally consist. Hence the lobules of the liver are not definitely bounded on all sides by a capsule of any kind, but here and there blend by continuity of sub- stance with those adjoining them. The larger portion of their contour is, however, well de- fined by the ultimate twigs of the portal vein, and of the ducts derived from the lobule, as so clearly proved by Mr. Kiernan in his well- known paper. The size of the capillaries varies much in different parts of the mucous system. In the liver they are very capacious, always one-third wider than the diameter of the blood globule, and sometimes nearly double. In the lungs they are almost equally great. In the intestinal villi also they are of large dimensions. In these organs they form a network on the inner surface of the basement membrane, and are supplied by an artery that ascends in the axis of the villus. The veins from this network are generally two, one on each side. This plexus of the villi is strikingly contrasted by that clothing the tubes that open at their base. In this latter I have observed the diameter to be as small as that of the capillaries of the salivary glands, which do not exceed the width of a blood globule. This disparity is another con- firmation of the opinion that the villi are chiefly absorbing, and the tubes secreting organs. Many other varieties might be enumerated, but these are among the most remarkable. Under most of the compound mucous mem- branes bloodvessels are spread out in great pro- fusion, and especially in certain localities. The arteries and veins respectively form plane ple- xuses, more or less close, more or less intricate, from which emerge branches that pass between the foldings of the simple membrane and com- municate with its capillaries, already described. There may even be a series of these arterial and venous plexuses situated one over another, and successively springing out of one another. The effect of this arrangement of an arterial network on one side of the capillaries and a venous net- work on the other side, is that the blood, be- sides being delayed in their neighbourhood, is most freely and equably distributed in the capillaries themselves : a condition which could scarcely be otherwise accomplished, since, in the case of a villous membrane at least, the capillaries form a series of isolated systems, of which one belongs to each villus. The arrange- ment now spoken of exists in the submucous areolar tissue of the stomach and intestinal canal, and in most parts of the skin. In the solid glands, where the capillaries form one continuous system, such arterial and venous networks are not found. At least such inoscu- lations, when they exist, are few and rare. In the stomach of many fishes there is a plexus of great thickness under the mucous membrane. In the nose also, chiefly on the spongy bones and septum, there is a plexus of very large veins, well known to anatomists, and also a less capacious arterial plexus; smaller ones are met with in other parts, as the cheeks and lips, the palate and pharynx. The use of these, especially that of the nose, may be to serve as a diverticulum for the blood in cerebral con- gestions. These are the vessels that give way in ordinary epistaxis. Of the lacteal and lymphatic vessels.—The lacteals have their sole origin from a plexus underlying the simple mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, and it is probable that in every part of the skin a close network exists, such as has been described by several anato- mists (see Lymphatic System). Considering the means hitherto at command for ascertaining the precise position of this network, it is not wonderful that disputes should have arisen as to whether it lies in the rete Malpighii, or within the surface of the dermis. I would hazard the opinion that the real situation of this plexus is underneath the basement mem- brane which is everywhere present in the skin. Of the nerves.—These are numerous and varied, as might be expected from the position of the mucous system in regard to the rest of the body. They may all be styled afferent, and are divisible into three kinds, viz. the sensory, the excito-motory, and the sympathetic. The nerves of special sense distributed to this system are those of smell, taste, and touch. The nerves of common sensation and the excito-