987 PISCES. In the Sharks the orifices of the pharynx leading into the branchial chambers are guarded by cartilaginous pyramidal processes; but in the Skates, which have the cartilaginous arches much less perfectly formed, no such defences are visible. The Cyclostomatous cartilaginous Fishes, from the peculiarities of their habits, require another modification in the construction of the organs of respiration, seeing that, whilst they rest fixed by their suctorial mouths to the surfaces of stones or other foreign bodies, or while they are compelled to remain with their heads deeply plunged into the flesh of the prey upon which they live, the admission of water into the mouth and its subsequent ex- pulsion through pharyngeal fissures would, in their case, be impracticable. In the Myxine or Hag-fish the branchial apparatus presents externally seven round holes placed in a line along each side of the neck, and situated very far back in comparison with the usual situation of the gill-openings. Each of the seven lateral openings leads internally into a flattened circular cavity, which likewise communicates by a special canal with the inte- rior of the pharynx. When opened, each gill- sac is found to have its lining vascular mem- brane gathered into closely set folds, which in turn exhibit, when accurately examined, smaller plica?, and thus a great superficial extent of respiratory membrane is secured, much in the same manner as in the case of the Raidte ; in- deed, the general disposition of the whole ap- paratus is essentially similar in the two groups, the great difference being that whereas in the plagiostome genera the water passes in at the mouth and out at the gills, in the Cyclosto- mata it alternately passes in and out through the same orifices by a mechanism which is best exhibited in the Lampreys (Petromyzon). In the last mentioned genus of Cyclosto- matous Fishes, the seven holes which lead to the breathing organs are seen, on removing the skin, to be supported by a curiously contorted framework of cartilaginous pieces, which we have already noticed as being the exaggerated representatives of the sternal ribs met with in the Sharks, and which we shall subsequently see in a much more highly developed condi- tive to the extent of the respiratory surface pre- sented by the gills of Fishes to the action of the surrounding medium. On each side of the body of a Skate, says he, there are four double gills, or gills with two sides each, and one single gill ; or there are in all eighteen sides or surfaces on which the branchial artery is spread out. On each of these sides there are about fifty divisions or dou- blings of the membrane of the gills. Each division has on each side of it 160 subdivisions, doublings, or folds of its membrane, the length of each of which in a very large skate is about one-eighth of an inch, and its breadth about one-sixteenth of an inch, so that in the whole gills there are 144,000 subdi- visions or folds, the two sides of each of which are equal to the 64th part of a square inch, or the sur- face of the whole gills in a large skate is equal to 2.250 square inches, that is, to 15 square feet, an expanse equal to the whole external surface of the human body.—Structure and Physiology of Fishes, p. 15. tion in Branchiostoma. These form a kind of elastic thorax around the region of the body where the branchias are situated, which is made to perform alternate movements of contraction and dilatation, whereby the water is perpetually sucked in and again expelled through the exter- nal openings ffg.521, i, i). The branchiae them- selves (/(,/() present nearly the same structure as in the Myxine, consisting of as many distinct Fig. 521. Respiratory apparatus of the Lamprey (Petromyzon). a, mouth with its teeth ; b, pharynx ; c, opening of tube lrom the back of the head; (/, cavity com- municating with the respiratory sacculi of both sides ; e, commencement of oesophagus; f, carti- laginous process connected with hyoid tooth, like- wise marked d ; </, muscles of sucking disc ; h, h, respiratory cavities and branchiae contained therein; i, i, external openings of do. ; m, cartilaginous sac investing the pericardium. sacculi as there are external openings, ranged along the sides of the neck, each sacculus having its vascular lining membrane finely plicated in order to increase the extent of surface to be exposed to the respired element. Every bran- chial sacculus, in addition to its communica- tion with- the exterior through the lateral open- ings of the neck, has a passage that leads into the pharynx (</), so that by the intervention of the pharyngeal cavity the respiratory sacculi of the opposite sides of the body are made to communicate with each other, an arrangement which explains the circumstance, that when the breathing holes of one side of the Lamprey are kept above water, the respired fluid which enters the submerged orifices, after traversing the pharynx, fills the branchial chambers of the opposite side, and is forcibly ejected therefrom