986 PISCES. so retained in contact with the branchiae con- tinually absorbing from the air a sufficiency of oxygen to carry on the respiratory process. An important group of Fishes (the " P/ia- ryngiens labyrinthiformes" of Cuv.) are cha- racterized by a very peculiar formation of the anterior superior pharyngeal bones, which enables them to live out of the water for a considerable length of time, so that many of them, as we are assured by authors, not un- frequently come on dry land, and even, as in the case of the Anabas scandens, or climbing Perch, mount into trees, a faculty for which they are indebted to the following remarkable conformation. Their inferior pharyngeals and the posterior of their superior pharyngeal bones present the usual arrangement and are studded with teeth, but the two anterior pharyngeals on each side are spread out into thin laminae folded upon themselves in divers ways, so as to form a light complicated mass, (which Cuvier* compares to a curly cabbage, or to certain forms of lami- nated eschars and millepores,) over which numerous vessels are distributed, but whether derived from the branchial artery or the aorta remains uncertain. In order to lodge these singular cellular organs the head is consider- ably dilated in breadth, and with the same intention the cranium is produced upwards by a vertical crest so as to increase the height of the lateral chambers in which the foliaceous masses are lodged. Externally, each of these chambers is partially covered by the bones of the cranium and by the opercular pieces; and when the operculum is raised, a membrane is seen to be tightly expanded between it and the opercular bone so as to enclose the cavity, leaving only a small aperture of communica- tion with the exterior, which leads equally to the labyrinthiform apparatus and the branchial chamber. This bony labyrinth, therefore, so carefully enclosed on all sides, and which re- ceives water equally with the branchiae when- ever the fish opens its mouth, will retain the water so taken in between its lamellae where- with to moisten the branchiae for a considerable length of time, so that the fish may live for hours or perhaps even for days out of the water. The Lophobrancliii form a remarkable group, distinguished from all other races of osseous Fishes by the peculiar structure of their bran- chial organs. In these, called from their pecu- liar shapes and external armour " pipe-fishes," (Syngnut/tus, Hippocampus, fyc.) the vascular fringes appended to the branchial arches, in- stead of consisting of lamellae arranged in a pectinated form, are collected into tufts ar- ranged in a double series along the convexity of each branchial arch. The essential character of these tufts varies, however, in no respect from that of gills of the ordinary construction, and in like manner the water passes from the mouth through five apertures leading from the pharynx into the branchial chamber, whence, after bathing the tufted gills, it escapes through a single small opercular fissure. The Sturgeons (Sturionida), which in many points of their economy seem intermediate be- tween the osseous and cartilaginous Fishes, resemble the former in the disposition of their organs of respiration. The gills of the Stur- geon are constructed precisely in the same manner as in ordinary osseous Fishes, only differing in some respects as to form, the bran- chial arches being more bent and the vascular laminae united for a greater extent; the respired water, moreover, escapes in like manner through a single opercular slit. In the Plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes (" Chondropterygii a branchies fixes," Cuv.) the mechanical arrangement of the branchial organs presents very important modifications, the water which passes from the mouth over the gills no longer escaping through an oper- cular opening, but being expelled through five distinct orifices situated on each side of the body. In the Sharks and Hays the condition of the breathing organs is essentially similar, so that the same description will apply to both. The four branchial arches in these Fishes are of a soft cartilaginous consistence, and instead of hanging free in the branchial chamber as they do in the osseous genera, stretch quite across that cavity to have their external margins fixed to its outer walls, thus dividing it like so many bulk-heads into five distinct compart- ments, which have no communication with each other. A wide branchial fissure admits water from the pharynx into each of these com- partments, which after passing over the gills is expelled by as many orifices situated upon the exterior of the body, the external openings being situated upon the sides of the throat in the Squalidae (Jig. 506, q,q,q), but in the Skates, in consequence of the lateral extension of the body, they are placed upon the ventral surface. The gills themselves are broad vascular mem- branes spread out over the opposite faces of each cartilaginous septum, so that every compartment of the branchial chamber has its walls tapes- tried with a respiratory surface, and forms a kind of bag lined with innumerable blood- vessels, through which the water must pass in its course from the mouth to the external open- ings upon the sides of the neck. The branchial membrane which thus covers the opposed walls that bound the respective cavities into which the gill-chamber is divided, is entirely made up of numerous plicated, vas- cular lamellae, each of which is gathered into close-set transverse folds sustaining the minute ramifications of the branchial vessels; and these again may be observed with a lens to be in like manner transversely plicated, thus presenting in the aggregate a surface of vast extent to the influence of the respiratory currents. In the anterior branchia the vascular layer is of course affixed only to the posterior surface of the sup- porting membrane, the opposite side being sup- ported by cartilaginous rays* * Hist, des Poissons, torn. 8. * Monro makes the following calculation rcla-