747 NUTRITION. smaller fragments, however roughly or strongly the two pieces of glass be made to rub against each other. This is a ' glaring instance ' of a compact, tough, elastic, colourless, and fibrous tissue, forming from the colourless elements of the blood ; and the several stages of its formation may be actually seen and determined. Nu- merous corpuscles may be observed, in all these preparations, to have resolved themselves, or to have fallen down into a number of minute molecules, which are spread out over a some- what larger area than that occupied by the entire corpuscles; and although still retaining a more or less perfectly circular outline, yet refracting the light at their edges, in a manner very different from that in which the corpuscles themselves are seen to do. It is from these and various other larger and more irregular masses of molecules on disintegrated corpuscles, that the fibrinous filaments shoot out on all sides, as from so many cenlres; or frequently the filaments are more copious in two opposite directions.'7* A different view of the cause of the produc- tion of fibrin, however, has been entertained by some eminent physiologists; and it does not seem right to allow the opinions of Wagner, Henle, and Wharton Jones to pass without notice, even though they appear to the writer to be easily set aside. By these observers, the elaboration of fibrin has been attributed to the red corpuscles, and has been regarded as one, at least, of their special functions. Nearly all the arguments, however, which have led us to assign this duty to the white corpuscles, tell equally against the doctrine now under con- sideration. The presence of fibrin in the circu- lating fluid may be regarded as a universal fact; but the red corpuscles are restricted to verte- brated animals : how, then, is the plastic element elaborated in the invertebrata ? The number of red corpuscles in the blood of different classes bears an obvious relation to their amount of respiratory power, and to the functional activity of the several organs, which is closely connected with the amount of oxygen introduced into the system ; but it does not bear the same relation with the activity of the formative processes, which may be taking place energetically (as in the developement of the embryo, or in the re- paration of parts in the adult) in a state of functional quiescence. That the proportion of red corpuscles in the blood had a special rela- tion to the nervous and muscular energy of an animal, and to the amount of oxygen consumed by it, has long ranked as a physiological truth ; and the opinion has been gradually gaining ground, that although the liquor sanguinis is undoubtedly affected in a considerable degree by exposure to oxygen in the respiratory capil- laries, the red corpuscles are the special agents by which oxygen is conveyed into the systemic capillaries, that it may furnish the conditions required for muscular contraction and other functional operations, which depend upon a due supply of arterial blood. In the inverte- * Transactions of the Provincial Medical Asso- ciation, 1843. brated animals in general, the amount of respi- ration is so low, that this special provision is not required. There is an apparent exception, however, in the case of Insects, which have no red corpuscles, and which yet can display a greater amount of animal energy, and which consume (when in a state of activity) a larger quantity of oxygen in proportion to their size, than beings of any other class whatever. But here the exception proves the rule ; for the con- veyance of oxygen through the tissues is not accomplished in Insects by the circulating fluid, which has a comparatively sluggish movement, but is effected more directly by the ramifying tracheae, which introduce air into the minutest portions of the structure. The pathological evidence that the red cor- puscles are not the elaborators of the fibrin, appears to the writer to be quite conclusive. Whilst the quantity of fibrin is so remarkably increased in inflammation, the number of red corpuscles undergoes no decided change. Again, the augmentation of the fibrin is not in- compatible with a chlorotic state of the blood ; the peculiar characteristic of which is a great diminution in the proportion of red corpuscles. By such alterations, the normal proportion be- tween the fibrin and the red corpuscles, which may be stated as a : b, may be so much altered, as to become, in inflammation, 3a : b, in chlo- rosis a : J b. Again, in fever, the characteristic alteration in the condition of the blood appears to be an increase in the amount of red cor- puscles, with a diminution in the quantity of fibrin; yet if a local inflammation should establish itself during the course of a fever, the proportion of fibrin will rise ; and this without any change in the amount of corpuscles. Lastly, the effect of loss of blood has been shown by Andral's investigations to be a marked diminution in the number of red corpuscles, with no decided reduction in the quantity of fibrin, even when this is much above its norma! standard ; and in this condition of the blood it has been observed by Remak that the colourless corpuscles are very numerous. Formation of tissue.—With the elaboration of the alimentary materials into fibrin, the pre- paratory processes of nutrition may be regarded as terminating ; since the next step is the trans- formation of this substance into organised tissue. Upon the mode in which this is effected, much light has been thrown by recent enquiries ; but several points still remain obscure. We shall endeavour, in the following account, to dis- tinguish what has been satisfactorily ascertained from what is merely hypothetical. That the particles of perfectly-elaborated fibrin are capable, in solidifying, of spontaneously assuming a definite arrangement, cannot now be questioned. In the ordinary crassamentum of healthy blood, this arrangement can be seen, by examining thin slices under the microscope ; especially after the clot has been hardened by boiling. A number of fibres, more or less dis- tinct, may be seen to cross one another; form- ing by their interlacement a tolerably regular network, in the meshes of which the red cor- puscles are entangled. This fact was known to