146 LIFE. electricity, at least we have reason to believe it is of a similar nature, and lias the power of regulating electrical operations." We shall now inquire into the precise import attached to the term by those who continue to employ it. It has been well remarked by Mr. Mayo that the word principle, " charac- teristic of a less advanced state of science, has been generally employed (as the final letters of the alphabet are used by algebraists) to denote an unknown element, which, when thus ex- pressed, is more conveniently analysed." Thus, it has been customary to speak of the principle of gravity, of electricity, or of magnetism, as the unknown causes of certain phenomena, whilst these are imperfectly comprehended. In so far, however, as the laws of these pheno- mena are understood, they terminate in referring all the results to simple properties of matter, from which they may be deduced by demon- strative reasoning, just as geometrical theorems from the postulates on which they are founded. But in the science of physiology the term has been employed in a less justifiable sense. It must be admitted on all hands, that the condi- tions of vital phenomena are not yet determined with sufficient precision to enable us to refer all observed facts, through the medium of general laws, to simple vital properties; and there would be no objection, save the proba- bility of its abuse, to the employment of the term " Vital Principle," like " Nisus formati- vus" or " Organic Force," as a convenient ex- pression for the sum of the unknown powers which are developed by the action of these properties. But to this limit physiologists have unfortunately not restricted themselves. They have regarded it as a distinct entity en- dowed with properties of its own, in virtue of which it acts upon matter,—removing its par- ticles from the pale of physical and chemical laws,—transforming them into organised tis- sues,—endowing these tissues with new pro- perties,—prompting their actions,—preserving their composition in defiance of external in- fluences which would tend to disintegrate them, —and finally quitting them, or being itself worn out with them, so as to leave the frame- work without its protecting influence, deprived of which it speedily falls to decay. Of the character of this principle, its expo- sitors leave us very much in the dark. Of all modern writers, Dr. Prout is probably the one who has most plainly expressed himself on it. In his Gulstonian Lectures* he informs us that, " In all cases it must be considered an ultimate principle, endowed by the Creator with a facultv little short of intelligence, by means of which it is enabled to construct such a mecha- nism, from natural elements, and by the aid of natural agencies, as to render it capable of taking further advantage of their properties, and of making them subservient to its use." The fallacies involved in this supposition have been elsewhere so ably exposed-)- that we shall not here stop to discuss it; but in our survey * Medical Gazette, vol. viii. p. 261. t Roberton on Life and Mind, p. 36 6t seq. of the nature and causes of vital actions, we shall take occasion to inquire whether any such hypothesis is called for, or whether it is not worse than useless by complicating what is otherwise readily explicable on simple and phi- losophical principles. III. Nature and causes of vital action. It has been already pointed out that all the changes in the external world are the results of the properties of inorganic matter, called into exercise by the means appropriate to excite or stimulate each to activity; and we may further observe that these means are different for each property. Thus, to develope the dormant pro- perty of gravitation in any mass of matter, we should only have to bring it within the sphere of attraction of any other mass. But to develope the dormant electrical property of a loadstone, a mass of iron alone would serve. Every operation in chemistry is founded upon the same principle, each substance acted upon being capable of responding, in a manner peculiar to itself, to the influence of agents brought to bear upon it. Now, however fami- liar this idea may seem, it has been too much neglected in the investigation of vital pheno- mena; and notwithstanding that we always find a similarity of action, when the organised structure, on the one hand, and the stimuli which call its properties into activity, on the other, are identical—and a difference in either of these conditions always producing a diffe- rence in the result,—-physiologists have been in the habit of looking to some other agency for the cause of the variation. It is true that we occasionally meet witli instances in which the result is different, without our being able to detect any change in either of the conditions ; but, knowing as we do how very slight an alteration in the structure of a tissue or organ will at once destroy or entirely change its vital properties, we cannot wonder that they should undergo important modifications without their sources being perceptible to our present means of research; and, as will hereafter be more fully shown, every extension of our powers of observation renders this doctrine more probable. When we analyse the mass of phenomena which are presented to us by the vital actions of the organised world, we find that they are susceptible of reduction into distinct classes, by which the study of them is much facilitated. Thus, all living beings introduce into their own structure alimentary materials derived from external sources; and all likewise submit their fluid ingredients to the influence of the element they inhabit, in such a manner that a reciprocal change occurs between them. In this mode we arrive at the notion of the distinct Junctions of living beings, each of which may be regarded (in its simplest form) as a group of phenomena of similar character and referable to the same causes. Thus, the function of respiration, when stripped of all the acts some- times associated with it, is essentially the same throughout the whole organized world ;* and the simplicity of the changes involved in it, * See Piin. of Gen. and Comp. Phys. ch. ix.