INSTINCT. 22 Colonel Sykes communicated to Mr. Kirby a singular anecdote of some of the black ants in India, which had been prevented, for some time, from getting to some sweatmeats, by having the legs of the table on which they stood immersed in basins filled with water, and besides painted with turpentine. After a time, however, the ants again reached the sweatmeats; and it was found that they did so by letting themselves drop from the wall, above the table, on the cloth which covered it.* " In Senegal, where the heat is great, the ostrich neglects her eggs during the day, but sits on them at night. At the Cape of Good Hope, however, where the degree of heat is less, the ostrich, like other birds, sits upon her eggs both day and night." " Rabbits dig holes in the ground for warmth and protection ; but after continuing long in a domestic state, that resource being unnecessary, they seldom burrow." "A dog in a monastery, perceiving that the monks received their meals by rapping at a buttery-door, contrived to do so likewise, and when the allowance was pushed through, and the door shut, ran off with it. This was re- peated till the theft was detected." " A dog belonging to Mr. Taylor, a clergy- man, who lived at Colton, near Wolseley Bridge, was accused of killing many sheep. Complaints were made to his master, who as- serted that the thing was impossible, because he was muzzled every night. The neighbours persisting in the charge, the dog one night was watched, and he was seen to draw his neck out of the muzzle, then to go into a field, and eat as much of a sheep as satisfied his appetite. He next went into the river to wash his mouth, and returned afterwards to his kennel, put his head into the muzzle again, and lay very qui- etly dow n to sleep." " 1 observed," says the Rev. J. Hall in his Travels in Scotland, " two magpies hopping round a gooseberry bush, in a small garden near a poor-looking house, in a peculiar manner, and flying in and out of the bush. I stepped aside to see what they were doing, and found from the poor man and his wife, that as there are no trees all around, these magpies several succeeding years had built their nest, and brought up their young, in this bush ; and that foxes, cats, hawks, &c. might not interrupt them, they had barricadoed not only their nest, but had encircled the bush with briers and thorns in a formidable manner; nay, so com- pletely, that it would have cost even a fox, cunning as he is, some days' labour to get into that nest. " The materials in the inside of the nest were soft, warm, and comfortable; but all on the outside, so rough, so strong, and firmly en- twined with the bush, that without a hedge- knife, hatch-bill, or something of the kind, even a man could not, without much pain and trouble, get at their young; as from the outside to the inside of the nest extended as long as my arm. * Bridgewater Treatise, vol. ii. p. 342. " These magpies had been faithful to one another for several summers, and drove off their young, as well as every one else who at- tempted to take possession of their nest. This they carefully repaired and fortified in the spring with strong rough prickly sticks, that they sometimes brought to it by uniting their force, one at each end, pulling it along, when they were not able to lift it from the ground."* Such examples leave no reasonable ground for doubt, that on certain subjects at least some animals are capable of short and simple processes of reasoning or of imagination, which appear to imply the perception of general truths, and the formation of certain general ideas, and that the difference, formerly stated between the operations of their minds and ours, in that respect, is one of degree only, not absolutely of kind. But this admission, it must be remembered, does by no means di- minish the force of the considerations formerly adduced to establish the essential distinction between the instinctive determinations prompt- ing the usual actions of animals, and some of those of men, and those volitions, whether in animals or men, which are consequent on the exercise of reason, and on such anticipation of their consequences as a process of reasoning only can afford. It is worth while to mention that in some instances animals have been thought to be pos- sessed of a faculty resembling reason, on ac- count of actions, very wonderful indeed, but which the possession of reason would not have enabled them to perform. Thus there are many instances of animals finding their way to their usual place of residence, after being re- moved from it in such a way as to prevent the mere act of recollection guiding them back. Mr. Duncanf mentions having seen a pigeon, which had been brought from London, let loose on Magdalen Bridge, in Oxford. " It flew first towards the north, but after several gyrations in the air, it flew directly east, and reached London within the appointed time, which was, I believe, three hours." And Mr. Spence gives an anecdote, well authenticated, of an ass from Gibraltar, thrown overboard from a vessel at a distance of 200 miles, which swam ashore, and in a few days afterwards pre- sented himself for admission when the gate of the fortress was opened in the morning. Two instances, equally extraordinary, have been stated on unexceptionable authority to the pre- sent writer; one of a pointer which had been sent from Durham to the neighbourhood of Edinburgh by sea, and made his way back in a few days by land, to his master's house in the former county ;—the other of a kitten, which had been brought in a carriage a distance of above forty miles, to Edinburgh, and made its way back in a few days to its place of nativity in Stirlingshire, in doing which it must have crossed several bridges. Similar facts have been ascertained in several instances as to sheep ; and the cases of the swallow and of the * Duncan's Lectures on Instinct, t Ibid.