PAROTID REGION. 902 6. The cardiac branches of the vagus have no direct effectin maintaining the movements of the heart. Though the movements of the heart may be materially influenced by causes acting through the vagus, yet mental emotions and injuries of the central organs of the nervous system affect the heart's action through the sympathetic after the vagi and recurrents have been divided in the neck. 7. The pulmonary branches of the vagus con- sist chiefly of incident filaments and convey impressions, capable of producing respiratory muscular movements, made on the inner sur- face of the lungs to the medulla oblongata. When the vagi are cut or tied in the neck the respirations instantly fall in frequency, and are reduced to about one half their former number. The existence of motor filaments in these branches has not yet been satisfactorily esta- blished. 8. Though excitation of the nervus vagus in the neck causes muscular contractions of the stomach, yet the muscular movements of the stomach are not entirely dependent upon the gastric branches of the vagus, and the stomach may still propel the chyme into the duodenum after the vagi and recurrents have been divided. Lesion of the gastric branches of the vagus does not necessarily arrest the secretion of the usual fluids poured out into the interior of the sto- mach, though these are generally changed to a considerable extent both in quantity and quality by causes acting through the nervous system. The rapidity of the absorption of poisonous substances from the inner surface of the sto- mach is not perceptibly diminished by the division of the vagi. 9. Division or ligature of the vagi in the neck is almost always fatal. The cause of death, in by far the greater number of cases, is congestion of the lungs with blood induced by the diminished frequency of the respiratory muscular movements. In a few cases the ani- mal dies of inanition from derangement of the functions of the stomach.* (John Held.) PAROTID REGION.—This region (in surgical anatomy) is of a somewhat pyramidal form, the base corresponding to the surface of the skin, and the apex to the pharynx. The * The author embraces this opportunity of cor- recting some of the errors which have been over- looked in printing this article. P. 882, col. 1,1.11, for " cross," read "crosses." 2, foot note marked %, 1. 7, for " en- largement," read '' arrangement." P. 888, col. 2, foot note, 1. 17,/or " while the other two vagi, or," &c. to the end of the sentence, read " while the other two vagi give off the left recurrent of the right larynx and the right recurrent of the left, as they pass the larynges." P. 890, col. 1, last line, for " that in the," read " that while in the." P. 890, col. 2, 1. 5, for " while the recurrent one of the motor branches is," read " while the recurrent, one of the motor branches, is." P. 893, col. 1, last line except one, for "motor Aliments," read " sensiferons filaments," superficial boundaries of the region are, supe- riorly, the root of the zygoma and the articu- lation of the jaw; inferiorly, a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the anterior border of the slerno-mastoid muscle; anteriorly, the posterior border of the masseter muscle; and posteriorly, the meatus auditorius, the mastoid process with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In the present article it is intended to give the relative anatomy of the parts contained in this irregular and ill-defined region. Commencing the dissection by removing the integument from the parotid region, we expose some delicate muscular fibres which constitute the upper part of the platysma or the risorius Santorini; these fibres, however, are not con- stantly present. After removing a fine reti- cular tissue, the superficial surface of the pa- rotid fascials men. This is a strong fibrous fascia which is continuous below with the cer- vical fascia; it passes over the superficial sur- faces of the parotid, being attached above to the zygoma, and behind to the cartilage of the ear, while in front it is thinner and is prolonged over the masseteric region. The fascia also dips down into the substance of the gland and divides it into lobes and lobules. The Parotid Gland, from which the name of this region is derived, is the largest of the three salivary glands. Its form is irregular, and is determined by the surrounding parts into the interstices of which it is packed and moulded. Relations of the parotid.—-A description of the relations of the parotid gland will include the greater part of the relative anatomy of the parotid region. The external surface or base of the gland corresponds to the skin; it is of a somewhat irregular quadrilateral form, and its boundaries are identical with those of the pa- rotid region, except that a portion of the gland, the socia parotidis, is prolonged forwards with the duct over the masseter muscle. The anterior surface of the parotid is grooved to receive the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw; it also corresponds to the internal pterygoid muscle, the stylo-maxillary ligament, and the masseter muscle, upon the external surface of which it is prolonged, but separated from it by some loose cellular tissue, by branches of the portio dura nerve, and by the transverse facial artery. The posterior surface corresponds to the cartilaginous portion of the external meatus, upon the convexity of which it is moulded, and to which it is connected by dense cellular tissue; this surface is also related to the mastoid process and to the sterno-mas- toid and digastric muscles. It is related supe- riorly to the zygoma and the tempero-maxillary articulation ; inferiorly it fills up the space be- tween the angle of the jaw and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It here comes into relation with the submaxillary gland, but is separated from it by the stylo-maxillary ligament. The internul or deep surface of the parotid is very uneven; it fills up the posterior part of the glenoid cavity and the space be- tween the ear and ramus of the jaw; it sur- rounds the styloid process and the muscles