PACHYDERMATA. 862 Fig. 474. Skeleton of Hippopotamus. breadth constitute a kind of osseous case, en- closing a considerable portion of the abdominal cavity, and calculated to give origin to muscles of power proportioned to its ponderous con- tents. In the HyraXy dissected by Pallas, there were twenty-two ribs on the left side and only twenty-one on the right: of these seven were true ribs, six false attached to the sternum by the intervention of costal cartilages, and the rest merely imbedded in the muscles of the flanks. The sternum consisted of six pieces, of which the last or ensiform was further pro- longed by a spathulate cartilage. In the Tapir the ribs are twenty in number on each side, whilst there are but four lumbar vertebrae. The Elephant, likewise, has twenty pairs of ribs and only three lumbar vertebrae. The Rhinoceros has nineteen pairs of ribs, and the Hog only fourteen. The sternum is of considerable length and compressed laterally. In many genera, more- over, it is prolonged in front to a considerable distance, in order to allow more ample space for the attachment of muscles. Anterior extremities. — The limbs of the Pachydermata are necessarily constructed more with a view to ensure strength adequate to sus- tain their ponderous bulk than to permit of agile and active movements. The smaller genera, indeed, such as the Suidae, have their bones so arranged as to permit of considerable fleetness in running, but in the more colossal genera the condition of the extremities secures support at the expense of speed, and flexibility is sacrificed to solidity and firmness. Scapula.—The shoulder-blade of the Ele- phant, independently of its size, might be distinguished from that of any other living animal by the following circumstances. When in situ, its posterior side, which is deeply con- cave, is by far the shortest of the three, while the anterior and spinal costas are of nearly equal length. In consequence of the preceding circumstance this scapula is broader in propor- tion to its length than that of any other large quadruped, and, moreover, the spine of this bone, besides its acromial process, has towards its middle a broad sickle-shaped pro- jection, looking backwards and spreading over the infra-spinatus muscle. In all other Pachy- dermata the shape of the scapula is that of an elongated triangle, with the angles of the base much rounded off and the spine very short in proportion to the extent of the dorsum ; never- theless, in the Rhinoceros there is a falciform process projecting from the spine something like that of the Elephant, and both in the Hippopotamus and the Tapir rudiments of a coracoid process. The scapula of the Tapir (fig. 475) is also remarkable for a deep and almost circular notch between the rudimentary acro- mion and its anterior costa. Clavicle.—None of the Pachydermata have the slightest rudiment of a clavicle, an arrange- ment which permits the anterior shoulders to be closely approximated beneath the thorax, and thus brought nearer to the centre of gravity. Humerus.—The humerus is in all cases short, massive, and remarkable for the size and strength of the ridges and prominences for the origin and insertion of the muscles connected with it. The head of the bone which articulates with the scapula is very flat, and although large, forms but a very small proportion of its scapular extremity, the rest being made up of enormous protuberances, to which are affixed the muscles of the shoulder. (Figs. 474 and 475.) The lower articulating surface is a simple pulley, articulating with the conjoined heads of the radius and ulna, so as to admit of flexion and extension only, no movements of pronation or supination being here admissible. The humerus of the Elephant (fig. 464) is distinguishable from that of all other quadrupeds by the prodigious extent of the external condyle, which extends upwards nearly one-third of the length of the bone, where it terminates abruptly so as to give a square form to this part of the bone. Radius and ulna.—As the position of the fore-arm in the Pachydermata is permanently that of pronation, no arrangement has been made in any instance to articulate the radius with the ulna by means of a moveable joint, a certain degree of elasticity (the result of liga- mentous connection) being all the motion allowed even where the separation between the two bones is most complete. Sometimes, in- deed, as in the case of the Hippopotamus and