NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 608 of an irregular white line, the structure of which, when viewed under a lens, appeared to consist of a number of closely approxi- mated nervous threads. In a larger species the nervous cord had a more jointed, knotted ap- pearance, and its structure was more homoge- neous; the ganglia were, however, but very im- perfectly developed, for at each segment of the body of the worm, the nervous cord only offered an enlargement or swelling of rather an elongated form (Jig. 344, d): the first or most anterior Fig . 344. - r Upper fourth of the nervous cord of Lumbricus terrestris (earthworm). a, supra-cesophageal or cerebral ganglion. c, infra-cesophageal ganglion. b, b, lateral ner- vous cords, forming the oral primary nervous ring, d, d, d, d, enlargements of the ventral cord, or imperfect ganglia, developed on the ventral surfaces of the series of primary nervous rings. of these (the infra-cesophageal ganglion) was the largest (c). These enlargements were more closely approximated towards the anterior part of the body; from each of them were given off two pair of nerves, one passing to the right, the other to the "left, to supply the integuments. From the more attenuated intervening portions of the cord, a single pair of filaments was given off; these filaments we at once recognize as the commissures of the nervous ring of the Radiata and Mollusca; they pass round the body and approach each other on the dorsal surface, but do not unite: in this way is an open nervous ring formed. The infra-cesophageal ganglion before mentioned diverged at its anterior part, sent upwards two lateral nervous cords (b), which developed a large bilobate cerebral or supra-cesophageal ganglion (a) of a transversely elongated oval form, thus forming a distinct nervous ring, embracing the oesophagus. From the angles formed by the divergence of the infra-cesophageal ganglia, a nerve of rather firm texture was given off; another filament had its origin from the lateral and ascending portions of the nervous collar; and from the cerebral ganglion tw;o pairs of nerves passed forwards to supply the parts about the head. In the Aphrodita, a marine Annelide, the nervous cord had a more flattened appearance: it was about equal in width throughout its whole length, and presented similar enlargements in its course, from which nerves were given off, as in the Lumbricus ; no nerve, however, arose from the intervening spaces. In the Leech, the abdominal nervous cord was surrounded by several delicate vessels, and at the anterior part of the commissures was distinctly seen to be composed of two separated columns: the ganglia were very distinct, of a round form, and twenty-four in number,—the last four or five were more closely approximated; from each were given off two diverging pair of lateral filaments, which passed to supply the muscles and viscera. The cerebral ganglion is bilobed, and sends off ten distinct optic nerves besides many smaller filaments to the integument and other parts of the head; each optic nerve ter- minates by expanding upon the base of a black, eye-speck or ocellus.* According to Brandt, a simple nervous fila- ment is continued from the oesophageal ganglion along the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal. " This,'' says Professor Owen, " is an inte- resting structure, since it offers the first trace of a distinct system of nerves, usually called the stomato-gastric in Entomology, and to which our great sympathetic and nervus vagus seem answerable." These four classes comprise the whole of the helminthoid Articulata; and on reviewing the statements just made with regard to their nervous system, we observe that the lowest of them bear a great analogy to the Acrita and some of the Tunicata, in having no distinct nervous system discoverable; that where such does exist in the higher orders of them, it bears more or less the character before noticed as the type of the Articulata, which was, it will be recollected, a series of primary nervous rings connected by commissures ; that in the Ascaris the ganglia are so imperfectly developed, and consequently their commissures, that the whole has the appearance of only a single nervous filament. As we proceed through the Rotifera and Cinhopoda, we observe the ganglia rather more perfectly developed, but undetermined in number. In the highest of the Annelides, as the Leech, we find distinct ganglia developed and arranged in a determinate numerical series. Again, the cerebral ganglion, from being at first little more than a simple enlargement on the superior surface of the anterior primary nervous ring, has acquired, in the Leech, the form of a distinct ganglion. We next pass to the examination of the En- tomoid Articulata, in which we shall find the cerebral ganglion becoming more and more developed, and the ventral ganglia more de- termined as to number, and more concentrated as to situation ; their longitudinal commissures have been supposed to possess two distinct nervous tracts, composed of motor and sen- sitive columns, giving origin to nerves having sentient and motiferous properties. 1. Crustacea.—In the lowest of them, the Crustacea, the nervous system presents nu- * Owen's Lectures, p. 141.