200 ANIMAL LUMINOUSNESS. sparkling of the minute medusa and other animals, swimming on the surface of the sea, when they are dashed against the sides of a ship, struck by an oar, or tossed on the foamy crests of the waves; and this even while no other light is seen excepting just at the points where the water is agitated. In experimenting with Medusa', Macartney found that, when kept in a glass vessel in a state of perfect rest, they gave out no light, but that, on the slightest movement of the vessel, a brilliant flash was emitted, which was brightest when the animals swam near the surface. Macculloch remarks, " Very often we have found the water crowded, even with the largest medusa, yet scarcely be- traying themselves by an occasional twinkle, when the dash of an oar or any accidental agi- tation was sufficient to involve the whole water in a blaze of light." 5. Loud noises.—When any loud noise is made near a luminous insect while shining, it frequently ceases to give out its light. 6. Internal movements of the animals them- selves—will, &,x.—With regard to insects, we have many concurrent testimonies to the fact that more light is emitted during the season of procreation by most of the species than at other times. So strikingly is this the case in the Lam- pyrides, that the light given out by the female has been generally regarded, (although without sufficient reasons,) as destined only to attract the attention of her mate. After the eggs are deposited, the light gradually decreases in in- tensity. W hile it is obvious that, for the most part, the emission of light is altogether independent of any voluntary effort on the part of the animal itself, yet it appears probable that, through some means or other, the animal has the power of varying the intensity of the light at pleasure. We cannot, for instance, imagine that sound can have any direct effect on the light-giving organs themselves, so as to cause them to shine less brightly when loud noises are made near them. Such effect must be communicated through the animal's sensorium. It is sup- posed by some physiologists that variations in the intensity of the light given out by insects depend on the quantities of air admitted through the trachea? in respiration, over which quantities the animal's will seems to exercise some con- trol. In observing the luminousness of the elater, Spix concluded that this control is so pei feet, as to admit of the light being wholly extinguished by the animal's preventing the ad- mission of air ; and this view is adopted also by Treviranus. These changes, however, are explained by others, (as by Miiller and Mur- ray,) by supposing that, when the light seems to fi de, the organs are merely withdrawn be- hind opaque parts, or, as it were, veiled by a curtain. In general the light is increased when the animal is in motion; and in insects, parti- cularly during flight. Macartney observed of the beroe, that when it swam slowly near the surface of the water, its whole body became occasionally illuminated in a slight degree; but that, during its contractions, a stronger light issued from the ribs, and that when a sudden shock was communicated to the water in which it was swimming, a vivid flash was given out. That the luminous function is in many ani- mals directly under the control of their will, seems to be proved by the fact, that while - under any sudden irritation calculated to alarm them, they, at first, emit light strongly, yet on the frequent repetition or continuance of the same kind of irritation, they extinguish their light, and cannot be excited to shew it again for a considerable time. II. Artificial circumstances in which light is emitted by living animals, or by which the emission of it is affected. Light-giving animals being removed from their natural situations, and subjected to arti- ficial processes and agents, are found to have their luminousness affected by being exposed to, 1. the effects of accumulated electricity and electrical currents; 2. immersion in va- rious fluid and gaseous media; 3. pressure of their bodies; 4. removal of their luminous organs, and mutilation of these and of other organs ; 5. exposure to various degrees of heat and moisture; 6. immersion in vacuo ; 7. re- moval from all foreign sources of light. 1. The effects of accumulated electricity and electrical currents. In experimenting on ma- rine luminous animals, Macartney passed a shock through water in which they were swim- ming; immediately their light was extinguished for an instant, but afterwards became brighter than before. In reporting the result of a si- milar experiment, Humboldt merely says that the luminousness of the animals was increased after the shock. Macaire subjected glow- worms to the action of galvanism, and found that when one wire was forced through the body of the insect as far as the luminous organs, while the other was applied to the sur- face slightly moistened, the light became bril- liant. One galvanic pole produced no effect; but when insects not shining at the time were placed in a galvanic circle they always began to give out light. This result was not ob- tained in vacuo, but whenever the air was admitted, the light reappeared. No effect what- ever seemed to be produced by common elec- tricity, howsoever applied. 2. Immersion in various fluid and gaseous media.—Luminous marine animals, when re- moved from their native element, and plunged into fresh water, give out their light for a time more vividly and more steadily, but afterwards it gradually fades and becomes extinct. Mineral and vegetable acids, alcohol, potassa, and solu- tions of corrosive sublimate, and the salts, all produce nearly the same effect; only that by these the light-giving property is more speedily destroyed. Observers differ in their accounts of the effects produced by immersion in va- rious gases. Most of those who have experi- mented in this way have seen the light of the glow-worm very rapidly extinguished in hy- drogen gas; also in sulphuretted and car- buretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, chlorine and nitrogen gases; but Sir II. Davy found that hydrogen gas produced little or no change in the state of the light; the same was the result of Murray's experiments, who also found