MYRIAPODA. 554 Fig. 318. elapsed before the body of the young my- riapod was so far liberated as to remain only partially enclosed between the two halves of the shell, as represented in Jig. 318, being still at- tached to its interior by a pe- dicle or funis (Jig. 319, a1). So remarkable is its condi- tion at this period that it strongly resembles the ex- pansion of the germ in the seed of a plant, rather than the evolution of a living animal. The embryo is per- fectly motionless, and the bursting of its shell appears to be effected not by any direct effort of its own, since, up to this time, it has acquired only the form and external sem- blance of a living animal; but, by the force of ex- pansion of the growing body, the development of which being greatest along the dorsal or larger curvature, exerts, in consequence, a greater de- gree of force against the middle of the dorsal than the corresponding part of the ventral sur- face ; the head and tail of the embryo acting as a fulcrum against the ventral surface only at the ends of the shell, and thus bending it into the kidney-shaped form it assumes, while the dorsal surface of the embryo is gradually pressed through the opening. From the com- parative rapidity of its enlargement imme- diately after the shell is fissured, Mr. Newport observes, that it seems as if the stimulus given to it by exposure to a new medium, atmo- spheric air, were the great means of exciting its evolution. The embryo is now formed of eight distinct segments (Jig. 319), including the head, the ninth or anal segment being still indistinct. The head is Fig. 319. more defined in its out- line, and firmer in texture than other parts of the body, and is inflected against the under surface of the pro- thorax (2) or second egment, from which it is divided on the upper part by a deep transverse line: at its sides it exhibits a faint trace of the future antennae. The four tho- racic segments also exhibit on their ventral sur- face little nipple-shaped extensions, three of which on each side are the rudiments of future legs. When viewed from above, the body of the embryo appears compressed and wedge-shaped, its greatest diameter being in the second and third segments, while each succeeding segment is more and more contracted. Mr. Newport was unable at this period to detect any separate internal organs, the whole embryo being still a congeries of vesicles or cells, in the midst of which there seemed to be some faint traces of the commencement of an alimentary canal. " At the end of the first day," continues Mr. Newport," I carefully removed the embryo and shell into diluted spirits of wine, and, on ex- amination beneath the microscope, found the body of the embryo covered with an exceed- ingly delicate cuticle, through which the cells it was formed of were distinctly visible. It was also completely enclosed in a smooth and perfectly transparent membrane (Jig. 319, c), which seemed to contain a clear fluid, inter- posed between it and the embryo. This mem- brane 1 regard as the analogue of the amnion, the vitelline or investing membrane of the embryo in the higher animals, and identical with the membrana vitelli, before described, as the proper membrane of the yelk in the egg of Julus. It is a shut sac that completely invests the embryo, except at its funnel-shaped ter- mination at the extremity of the body (jig. 319, d), where it is constricted, and together with another membrane (e), which in the unburst egg is external to this and lines the interior of the shell, assists to form the cord or proper funis (d). " The funis enters the body of the embryo at the posterior part of the dorsal surface of the future penultimate segment, where the mucro or spine exists in the adult animal, and not at the dorsal surface of the thoracic iegion, as seen by Rathke in the Crustacea. The proper anal or terminal segment is, as yet, but im- perfectly developed. In the funis (d), I also observed some exceedingly delicate struc- tures that exhibited all the appearance of vessels. They seemed to enter the body by two sets, that were spread over and entirely lost in the membrane (e). Whether these were indeed vessels, or merely folds of the mem- brane I am not certain. The membrane (e) in which they appeared adheres closely to the shell and retains the embryo in connection with it by means of the funis. In the unburst egg, this is also a shut sac like the amnion, and forms the membrana externa or chorion (?), the second or outer investing membrane of the ovum lining the interior of the shell. " The detection of these two investing mem- branes of the embryo in Myriapoda may,'' says Mr. Newport," be regarded with some interest in reference to the analogies which they bear to similar structures in Vertebrata, since they shew the persistence of one universal law in the mode of development of the germ." On the third day the embryo had consider- ably increased in size, but was still perfectly motionless and attached to the shell by the funis. This attachment continues for many days, during which the embryo remains par- tially protected by the two halves of the shell. When examined at this period in the recent state, all the parts of its body are still indis- tinct, but in specimens that have been for some time in spirits of wine, the divisions between the segments are well marked. The rudiments of the legs are more developed, but those of the second and third segments less than the fifth, so that not only at the bursting of its shell, as noticed by Savi, but also for several days afterwards the embryo is competely apo- dal, the future limbs existing only in a rudi- mentary state. Posteriorly to the fifth segment, the body is more soft and delicate, and the seg- ments less clearly defined. This results from