235 MAMMALIA. vena cava : they never anastomose with the me- senteric veins. The kidneys are relatively smaller, and present a more compact figure than in the other vertebrate classes ; their parenchyma is divided into a cortical and medullary por- tion, and the secerning tubuli terminate in a dilatation of the excretory duct called the pelvis. The tubuli uriniferi are slightly branched, and the ramification takes place in the dichotomous, and not pinnatifid manner: they are convoluted in the cortical, and straight in the medullary portions of the kidney, and with a few exceptions terminate upon valvular prominences, called mammillae. The ureters convey the urine to a urinary bladder situated anterior to the rectum, and to the genital tubes or cavities. The liver is generally divided into a greater number of lobes than in birds. The portal system is formed by veins derived ex- clusively from the spleen and chylopoietic viscera. The cystic duct, when it exists, always joins the hepatic, and does not enter the duodenum separately. The pancreatic duct is commonly single. The mouth is closed by soft flexible mus- cular lips. The upper jaw is composed of palatine, maxillary, and intermaxillary bones, and is fixed ; the lower jaw consists of two rami, which are simple, or formed by one bony piece, and are articulated by a convex or flat condyle to the base of the zygomatic pro- cess, and not to the tympanic element of the temporal bone; the base of the coronoid pro- cess generally extends along the space between the condyloid and the alveolar processes. The jaws of Mammals, with few exceptions, are provided with teeth, which are arranged in a single row; they are always lodged in sockets, and never anchylosed with the substance of the jaw ; in most cases they present dif- ferent forms in the same individual, and the molars have two or more fangs. Never more than two teeth succeed each other in the ver- tical direction, and in this case the fang of the deciduous tooth is always completed before it is shed. The tongue is fleshy, well developed, with the apex more or less free. The posterior nares are protected by a soft palate, and the larynx by an epiglottis ; the rings of the trachea are generally cartilaginous and incomplete be- hind : there is no inferior larynx. The oeso- phagus is continued without partial dilatations to the stomach, which varies in its structure according to the nature of the food, or the quantity of nutriment to be extracted therefrom. An epiploon of greater or less extent is conti- nued from the great curvature of the stomach. The termination of the duodenum is generally tied closely to the spine, above the root of the mesentery. The colon is suspended generally by a distinct duplicature of peritoneum, called the meso-colon : the caecum coli when present is usually single. The rectum commonly termi- nates by an aperture distinct from that of the urinary or genital canals. The female generative organs consist of two ovaries, which with very few exceptions are equally developed; there are always two ovi- ducts or Fallopian tubes, a simple or more or less completely bifid uterus, a vagina, which is commonly single, and a clitoris. The es- sential element of the ovum, the germinal vesi- cle, acquires a surrounding granular stratum (tunica granulosa), a small vitelline mass, and a vitelline membrane, before it quits the ovisac. The ovisacs or Graafian vesicles, consisting of an ovarian vesicle and a vascular layer of the condensed cellular tissue, or stroma of the ovary, are never pendent, and rarely racemose. The male organs consist of two equally de- veloped testes, commonly situated in an ex- ternal tegumentary pouch or scrotum : the vasa deferentia form an epididymis at their com- mencement, and frequently communicate with the ducts of vesiculse seminales at their termi- nation, and the semen is conveyed outwardly along a complete urethral canal, where it is mingled with the secretion of certain accessory glands, of which those called " Cowperian," or " preprostatic," are constant; there are also ge- nerally prostatic and in many cases vesicular glands. The penis is always perforated by an urethral canal, along which, with very few ex- ceptions, the urine as well as the semen is con- ducted from the body. The true vertebra? of Mammalia have their bodies ossified from three centres, and present for a longer or shorter period of life a com- pressed epiphysis at each extremity. They are articulated by concentric ligaments with inter- posed glairy fluid, forming what are called the intervertebral substances ; the articulating sur- faces are generally flattened, but sometimes, as in the neck of certain Ruminants, they are concave at one end and convex at the other; such a vertebra, however, may be distinguished from a vertebra of a Reptile, with a similar ball-and-socket structure of the articular sur- faces, even when found in a fossil state, and when the test of the articulating medium can- not be applied, by the constant anchylosis or confluence of the annular with the central part or body. The cervical vertebrae, with one or two exceptions, are seven in number, neither more nor less ; the Monotremes, which are the instances commonly opposed to other generaliza- tions, form no exception to this rule. The lumbar vertebrae are more constant and more numerous than in other classes of vertebrate animals. The atlas is articulated by concave articular processes to two convex condyles, which are developed from the ex-occipital ele- ments of the last cranial vertebra. The tym- panic element of the temporal bone is re- stricted in function to a subserviency to the organ of hearing, and never enters into the articulation of the lower jaw. The frontal bones are developed each from a single centre; there are no anterior or posterior frontals. The olfactory nerves escape from the cranial cavity through numerous foramina of a cribriform plate. The optic foramina are always distinct from one another, and generally from the fis- surao lacerae anteriores, and consequently give passage only to the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. The carotid canals do not intercom- municate. The cranial bones, in regard to the