NERVOUS CENTRES. (Their Microscopical Anatomy.; 707 delirium which succeed to haemorrhages, large bleedings, or the sudden lighting up of inflam- mation in the pericardium or within the heart. In nearly all these cases, however, it is important to notice that the blood is more or less damaged in quality, deficient in some of its staminal principles, or charged with some morbid matter; and this vitiated state of the vital fluid has no doubt a considerable share in the production of the morbid phenomena.* Of the encephulic nerves.—There are no com- mon characters possessed by these nerves, such as have been enumerated at a preceding page for the spinal nerves. They are, however, dis- posed in pairs, and are quite symmetrical. With the exception of the olfactory, optic, and third pair, they are all connected with the mesocephale or medulla oblongata. The arrangement of these nerves originally proposed by Willis has been so long adopted in this country and on the continent that no advantage would arise from abandoning it, un- less some other of an unexceptionable nature could be substituted for it. It has, therefore, been followed in this work, and the anatomy and physiology of the encephalic nerves have been described in articles prefixed by their numerical titles, in all cases except the olfactory and optic, and the eighth pair of nerves.t Twelve pairs of nerves are found in con- nection with the base of the encephalon. Five pairs have been so classed by Willis as to form two in his arrangement, three pairs being al- lotted to his eighth pair of nerves, and two to his seventh. Willis's arrangement, therefore, comprises nine pairs of nerves, which he enumerates, beginning at the anterior and pas- sing to the posterior part of the base of the brain. These are the first pair or olfactory nerves; the second pair or optic; the third pair, motores oculorum; the fourth pair, pa- thetici; the fifth pair; the sixth pair, abdu- cent es oculi; the seventh pair, including the portio mollis or auditory nerve, and the portio dura or facial nerve; the eighth pair, including the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumo-gastric, and the spinal accessory; the ninth pair or hypo- glossal. The first cervical nerve or the sub-occi- pital was considered by Willis as an encephalic nerve and counted as the tenth pair. As the cranium may be shewn to be com- posed of the elements of three vertebrae, it has been attempted to prove that among these nerves some may be classed with the vertebral or spinal nerves. The fifth is obviously of this kind from its anatomical characters, namely, two roots; one, small, ganglionless ; the other large, ganglionic; but with the former, which is analogous to the anterior root of a spinal nerve, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves may be conjoined from their similarity in structure and distribution. Thus one cranio-vertebrul * The subject of the circulation in the cranium has been very ably discussed by Dr. G. Burrows in the Lumleian Lectures for 1843, Lond. Med. Ga- zette, vol. xxxii. f The olfactory nerve is described in the atiirle Nose, the optic in Optic Nerves, and the eighth pair under the titles of ils three portions. nerve is formed, the anterior root of which consists of the small portion of the fifth, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves; and the pos- terior or sensitive root, of the large portion of the fifth. A second cranio-vertebral nerve consists of the eighth pair, to which might be added the facial contributing to its motor por- tion ; and a third is formed by the hypoglossal. The analogy, especially in the latter case, is far from being very obvious. Sketch of the microscopical anatomy of the spinal cord and brain.—We conclude our ac- count of the anatomy of the spinal cord and brain with a rapid glance at the present state of our knowledge of their minute anatomy as revealed by microscopical observation. The elements of the two kinds of nervous matter, fibrous and vesieular, have been al- ready sufficiently described. We shall only remark here that the great object of the ana- tomist's research should be to find out the precise manner in which the nerve-fibres are united with the nerve-vesicles. Of their in- timate connection there can be no doubt,— much less of the influence which they are capable of exerting mutually upon each other.'* Among the peculiarities of the fibrous mat- ter in the centres it may be here stated that the fibres pass through a much greater range of size than in the nerves; that here we meet with nerve-tubes of the largest size, and, on the other hand, with minute fibres which seem to be con- tinuous witli the branching processes of the caudate nerve-vesicles. These fibres are per- fectly transparent and differ from the nerve-tubes in the absence of any of the white substance of Schwann, and of the tubular membrane. Some idea of the relation of the vesicular and fibrous matter in different parts of the cere- brospinal centre may be formed by examining thin sections of the several portions of them made in various directions. It is impossible to make these sections sufficiently thin to enable us to explore a large surface with a high power, for which great transparency is necessary. Such sections, however, may be examined with low powers, as Stilling and Wallach have done. It is important, however, to notice that the ap- pearances observed in this way afford no certain indication of the course and direction of the nerve-fibres, nor of the situation of the finer elements of the vesicular matter. The nerve- tubes are too minute to admit of being follow ed with an object-glass which magnifies less than from two hundred to three hundred diameters; yet Stilling's researches have been made with a power of no more than ten or twelve diameters. The fibrous matter of the spinal cord consists of some fibres which pass either in a vertical direction, or obliquely, taking a long course, and deviatingbiit slightly from the parallel to the axis of the cord. The fibres of the posterior columns are the most obviously longitudinal, and those which lie quite on the surface of the antero-lateral columns follow very much the same direction. Among the elements of the grey matter, fibres are found in great numbers, * See the article NERVE, and pp. 646, 7, et seqq.