81 LACRYMAL ORGANS. Internal structure of the eyelids.—The tar- sal cartilages may be looked upon as the skele- ton of the eyelids, and the membraneous ex- pansion intervening between them and the mar- gins of the orbits as connecting ligaments. The latter, indeed, are called the tarsal ligaments, although they do not in reality possess a liga- mentous structure, but consist merely of dense laminar cellular membrane. On the inner sur- face of the tarsal cartilages and tarsal ligaments the palpebral conjunctiva adheres. On the outer surface are the palpebral and ciliary por- tions of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, over which is the skin. Moreover, incorporated with the superior tarsal ligament is the expan- sion of the tendon of the levator palpebral supe- riors muscle. Imbedded in the substance of the tarsal cartilages lie the Meibomian follicles. Underneath the skin and the ciliary portion of the oroicularis palpebrarum muscle, the roots of the eyelashes lie close on the tarsal cartilages. Tarsal* cartilages.-—Tarsi; ¥r.,Les Tarses; Ital., / tarsi; Germ., l)er Augenliedknorpel. These are thin plates of fibro-cartilage, convex on the outer surface, concave on the inner, to be adapted to the front of the eyeball. The upper is the larger. One of their margins is thick and straight, the other thin and curved, especially so in the upper, which therefore re- presents in some degree a segment of a circle, whilst the lower is little more than a narrow stripe. The thick and straight margin, called the ciliary, forms the margin of the eyelid; the thin and curved margin, called orbital, degene- rates into the membraneous expansion already mentioned under the name of tarsal ligaments. Towards the outer canthus the orbital margins of the tarsal cartilages run into the ciliary ones at an acute angle, whilst towards the inner can- thus they form an obtuse angle by their junc- tion. The transverse length of the tarsal carti- lages is somewhere about an inchj the breadth of the upper cartilage at its broadest part about one-third of an inch, the breadth of the lower cartilage only half as much. At the inner can- thus the tarsal cartilages extend no farther than the lacrynial points, and at the outer canthus they stop close to the commissure of the two lids. As to the intimate composition of the tarsal cartilages, they consist of what is called fibro- cartilage, a microscopically fibrous substance, without any of the corpuscles of common carti- lage. In the human lower eyelid, the thickness of this substance is inconsiderable, and its con- sistence not so great as in the upper. In the lower animals it is in the same state in both eyelids. This is what has led Zeissf to say that he never found a real cartilaginous tarsus in the human lower eyelid, nor among the lower mammifera in the upper eyelid either. "In * Tarsus, propter siccitatem quod tarnis sit ex- pers. t Anatnmische Untersuchungen der Meibornis- cnen Druscn des Menschen und der Thieren mit besondere Beriicksichtigung ihrer Verhaltniss zum larsus. In Amnion's Zeitschrift der Ophthalmo- logic Bd. iv. p. 249. VOL. in. the sow only," says he, " there is a nearer ap- proach to a tarsal cartilage than is to be found in any other of the lower animals." Miiller* has very well explained away all this difference of opinion, by snowing that the dense cellular tissue which, according to Zeiss, occupies the place of tarsal cartilage in the human lower eyelid, and in both those of the inferior mammi- fera, is the same tissue, as the more consistent fibro-cartilage of the human upper eyelid, only in a less condensed state. The Meibomian glands are commonly de- scribed as being situate between the palpebral conjunctiva and tarsal cartilage. Winslow, Haller, and Zinn describe them as lying in grooves on the posterior surface of the tarsal cartilages. The Meibomian glands are seen very distinctly from the inside of the eyelids, as if they were immediately underneath the con- junctiva. But if the skin and orbicularis muscle be removed from the outside, these glands be- come equally visible there. "Where, then," asks Zeiss,f"do they lie,—before or behind the tarsal cartilage 1" Examination of sections of the cartilage shows that the Meibomian glands lie in the substance of the tarsal cartilage itself; and in the human lower eyelid and in both those of the lower animals, in the less consistent fibrous structure which there composes the tarsus. At the outer canthus the cellulo-membra- neous expansions called tarsal ligaments are stronger, and form bands which decussate and thus tie the tarsal cartilages to each other and to the outer margin of the orbit. These bands compose what is called the external palpebral ligament. The internal palpebral ligament is the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle,—tendo ocu/i, or tendo palpebrarum. This, to adopt the description of Professor Harrison of Dub- lin, " is a small horizontal tendon, nearly one quarter of an inch in length. It is inserted in- ternally into the upper end of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; thence it passes outwards and backwards to the internal com- missure of the eyelids, where it forks into two slips which enclose the caruncula lacrymalis, and are then inserted each into the tarsal carti- lage and the lacrymal duct." J Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle.—This is de- scribed in the article Face, vol.ii.p. 221. Here we shall only advert to some particular points in its history. The fibres of the orbicularis pertaining to the upper eyelid arise from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, and from the upper edge of the tendo pal pefcra and proceed, forming a curve, at first^tj ,uds and outwards, and then downwards j5la,$3ut- wards, within the upper eyelid and along and over the upper edge of the orbit towards the temple and outer angle of the eye. Here they meet those of the lower eyelid which have come from the nasal process of the upper jaw-bone, * Archiv, 1836. .Tahresbericht, p. xxxviii. t L. c. p. 240, and op. cit. Bd. v. S. 216. See also Sichel in Lancette Fiancaise, Gazette des Ho- pitaux, No. 53, 55, and 57. Paris, 1833. X Dublin Dissector, 4th ed. p. 6. G