283 MARSUPIALIA. the pubis to the ischium on each side of the symphysis. In the Kangaroos, Potoroos, Phalangers, and Opossums the ilia offer an elongated pris- matic form. They are straight in the Opossum, but gently curved outwards in the other Mar- supial genera. In the Dasyures there is a lon- gitudinal groove widening upwards in place of the angle at the middle of the exterior surface of the ilium. The ilia in the Petaurists are simply compressed, with an almost trenchant anterior margin. They are broader and flatter in the Perameles, and their plane is turned outwards. But the most remarkable form of the ilia is seen in the Wombat, in which they are considerably bent outwards at their anterior extremity. In the Kangaroos and Potoroos the eye is arrested by a strong pro- cess given off from near the middle of the ileo-pubic ridge, and this process may be ob- served less developed in the other Marsupialia. The tuberosity of the ischia inclines outwards in a very slight degree in the Dasyures, Opos- sums, Phalangers, Petaurists, and Perameles, in a greater degree in the Kangaroos and Poto- roos, and gives off a distinct and strong obtuse process in the Wombat, (Jig. 108,) which Fig. 108. Right 08 innominatum and marsupial bone, Wombat. not only extends outwards but is curved for- wards. In the Potoroos the symphysis of the ischia, or the lower part of what is commonly called the symphysis pubis, is produced ante- riorly. The length of this symphysis, and the straight line formed by the lower margin of the ischia is a characteristic structure of the pelvis in most of the Marsupials. The Marsupial bones (a, a, fig. 109) are Fig. 109. Pelvis and marsupial bones of the Koala. elongated, flattened, and more or less curved, expanded at the proximal extremity, which sometimes, as in the Wombat, is articulated to the pubis by two points; they are relatively straightest and most slender in the Perameles; shortest in the Myrmecobius, where they do not exceed half an inch in length; longest, flattest, broadest, and most curved in the Koala, where they nearly equal the iliac bones in size. They are always so long that the cremaster muscle winds round them in its passage to the testicle or mammary gland, and the uses of these bones will be described in treating of that muscle. With reference to the interesting question— What is the homology or essential nature of the ossa marsupialia? I entirely concur in the opinion first advanced by the able anatomist, M. Laurent,* viz. that they belong to the category of the trochlear ossicles, commonly called sesamoid, and are developed in the tendon of the external oblique which forms the mesial pillar of the abdominal ring, as the pa- tella is developed in the tendon of the rectus Jemoria. I had arrived at this conclusion from independent researches, and unaware of any prior announcement of this view when I dis- cussed the question before the Zoological So- ciety in 1835.f I cannot, however, participate in the opinion of M. Laurent and the celebrated De Blainville, that the marsupial bones are superadded to the abdominal muscles to aid in an unusually energetic compression required to expel the uterine foetus. It is not in the females of those animals which give birth to the smallest * See his note inserted in the 'Bulletin des Sci- ences Medicates' of Ferussac, 1827, No. 77, p. 112, and the Annates d'Anat. et de Physiologie, 1839, p. 240. t See the abstract of a paper on the anatomy of the Dwiyurus, Proc. Zool, Soc, January, yi35.