945 PHARYNX. leave its inferior fundus uncovered by it; con- sequently the bladder when distended may be punctured above the pubis or through the rectum without injuring the peritoneum. In the mesenteries, omenta, and other peri- toneal duplkatures, where the external surface of the peritoneum adheres to itself, the adhesion is generally extremely intimate. They are most separated where deposits of fat have taken place between them. The recto-vesical folds and the broad ligaments of the uterus alone, of all the peritoneal duplicatures, have their layers loosely adherent. The peritoneum is very frequently the seat of extensive inflammation, the lymph effused in which process, besides causing adhesions of the abdominal viscera to one another and to the parietes, frequently covers the free peri- toneal surface with a thick adherent layer or false membrane; and this, like some other tissues formed from lymph, shrinks or cicatrizes in every direction, and thereby produces some very curious secondary effects. In such cases, if the great omentum is free at its lower border, it becomes tucked up to the greater convexity of the stomach and apparently obliterated; or if adherent, as to a hernial sac, the shrinking of the new tissue that covers it drags down the stomach. The thin sharp edges of the liver become rounded by this agent, and the calibre of the intestinal tube diminished; sometimes the intestine is even strictured by the contrac- tion of an unusually large deposit at a par- ticular part. The tendency of this tissue to shrink, however, being controllable by suffi- cient mechanical resistance, is most manifest in those directions in which it experiences no such opposition ; for which reason it tells more on the length than on the circumference of an intestine, and Cruveilhier met with a case of chronic peritonitis in which the small intestine measured only seven feet in length. If the hand is placed on the belly of a person in whom this condition exists, the muscles are felt to glide loosely over the peritoneum ren- dered tense beneath them. For the minute anatomy of the peritoneum see Serous Membrane. (Simon Rood Pittard.) PHARYNX and Mouth. (Gr. <p*?v>%.)— The pharynx is a large, muscular, and membra- nous pouch, placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx, and resting upon the cervical vertebra;: it extends from the base of the skull above to a level with the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra and the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and is at this point continued into the oesopha- gus : it occupies the middle line of the body and is a symmetrical organ : of a very irregu- larly funnel-shaped form, it is wide above and open in front to the cavities of the nose and mouth, and contracts as it descends behind the larynx : by the relation of this latter organ the interior of the pharynx is converted into a tube to be continued downwards to the stomach under the name of oesophagus. A common channel to the digestive and respiratory pas- VOL. III. sages, it is alike beautifully adapted by its con- struction, on the one hand to receive the food and convey it onward to the alimentary canal, and on the other to preserve a perfectly free communication between the atmospheric air and organs of respiration : to this latter function may be added the power of modulating vocal sounds. As the pharynx is so closely associated, both in function and anatomical relation, with the mouth and palate, I shall subjoin to its de- scription that of these latter organs. In the further examination of the pharynx the fol- lowing arrangement will be adopted. 1st. The description of its aponeurosis and muscles. 2ndly. Its attachments considered generally. 3rdly. To examine its cavity with the several openings related to it. 4thly. The mucous membrane and glandular apparatus; and, lastly, the vessels and nerves distributed to it. 1. The fibi-ous membrane.—This aponeurosis, named cephalo-pharyngeal, contributes to the formation of the pharyngeal parietes above, and is essentially the means by which the pha- rynx is affixed to the base of the skull: it forms a sort of framework for the support of the mus- cular and mucous tunics above, and is imper- ceptibly lost as it descends between these structures: it is thin but strong and well- marked superiorly, and connected, by uniting intimately with the periosteum, to the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, and, by a particularly dense slip, to its spine centrally; this latter may be considered as the origin of that tendinous raphe which, descending in the median line along the back of the pharynx, acts as an uniting medium to the constrictor muscles of either side : the basilar attachment of the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis occurs immediately anterior to the insertions of the recti capitis antici muscles, and is consequently some little distance in ad- vance of the occipital condyles and foramen : extending laterally, the aponeurosis next springs from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone as far outwardly as the external orifice of the carotid canal, just an- terior and internal to which it turns suddenly forwards and inwards, forming a sharp angle, then passes beneath the inner surface of the levator palati muscle, to attach itself to the car- tilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, near the anterior extremity of which it terminates by being gradually lost upon the mucous mem- brane: descending from these several points, and bounding the upper part of the pharyngeal cavity posteriorly and laterally, it insinuates itself between the mucous membrane and su- perior constrictor muscle, and splitting up into filaments which pass between the numerous mucous glands that are found at this part of the pharynx is lost from an inch to two inches below the base of the skull: posteriorly, on either side the median line, and between the upper semicircular margins of the superior constrictor muscles and the base of the skull, a considerable part of this aponeurosis is unco- vered by muscular fibres, constituting what are called the sinuses of Morgagni: the fibrous 3 p