60 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. He found it necessary, however, after the lapse of three years, to seek re-admission into the hospital, where he now is. The right knee- joint is now enlarged, and in a condition simi- lar to that of the left on his first admission. The latter, on the contrary, has nearly resumed its normal condition; the dropsical effusion of synovia has disappeared; he does not com- plain of pain in it; but if the joint be accu- rately examined, the bony irregularities which were noticed on the head of the tibia will be found, as might be expected, still to exist. If we move the patella transversely, an articular crepitus is perceived, plainly shewing that the cartilages have been removed from the patella and corresponding trochlea of the femur. The edges of the trochlea can also be felt through the skin to be elevated into rising crests. The peculiar crackling noise which is elicited when the joint is flexed and extended is infinitely more remarkable in the left knee-joint now, when it is comparatively well, than formerly, when it was much swollen, and when the syno- vial membrane was in what has been called a dropsical condition. Anatomical characters.—When we have an opportunity of making an anatomical examina- tion of a knee in which the disease had been fully established, we find the synovial fluid increased in quantity, and but little altered in its sensible qualities. The membrane is thicker than natural, and opaque. Sometimes vascular synovial fimbria; are formed, and hang into the synovial sac* We also find moveable carti- laginous bodies in the interior, similar to those noticed in the elbow-joint.f (See Elbow, ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF.) In the line of flexion and extension we observe narrow sulci formed by the removal of the cartilages. On examining the popliteal tumour, we find it to be, what we might have surmised, an enlargement and dropsical condi- tion of the bursa, which naturally exists at the point of decussation of the semi-membranosus tendon with the tendon of the internal head of the gastrocnemius. This bursa communicates normally with the synovial sac of the knee- joint by a very small circular aperture. It is not an uniform ovoid sac, but evidently has semilunar septa irregularly thrown across its interior, making the bursa a small multilocular cavity. When the joint is much distended by synovial fluid, the bursa admits some of this fluid, and takes upon itself the same morbid process which affects the proper synovial mem- brane of the joint itself. As we examine the disease when it has existed for some time, we find that the cartilage has been removed in grooves, and its place supplied by a porcelain- ous or ivory deposit. The bones of the knee- joint, however, present appearances charac- teristic enough: they generally appear to be enlarged. This is obviously the case with the patella: it is broader than natural, excavated, and grooved vertically. All the bones seem enlarged and porous on all those parts of the * See Cruveilhier, liv. 9. pi. 6. t See Morgagni's case, in note above. articular surfaces which have not been worn by use into porcelainous polished surfaces and sulci. The cavities of the head of the tibia for the reception of the condyles of the femur are much deepened, and exuberant nodules or vegetations of bone are thrown out around the circumference of this head. When we examine the femur, we find here also bony vegetations, arranged along the lateral margins of the con- dyles, similar to those which we noticed around the corona of the head of the femur.* The part of this bone called the trochlea, upon which the patella moves, is also grooved verti- cally, and the trochlea has rising edges to it, or crests, which will be found to correspond to the lateral margins of the patella when this bone is laid upon the trochlea of the femur. The anatomical characters of this disease when it has existed long, will of course be still more strongly marked. However, the dropsical effusion into the synovial sac will be found to be much less as the disease is of longer dura- tion. The joint becomes more and more flexed, the tibia has a tendency to be partially dis- placed outwards, and the toe is everted: the patella under such circumstances is dislocated on the external condyle, giving us another example of this luxation from disease. In the interior of the joint foreign bodies are found, while the articular and semilunar cartilages are altogether absorbed. White swelling, or chronic strumous arthritis of the knee.—The knee-joint is more liable to the disease commonly called white swelling than any other articulation. This disease, though utterly insidious in its attack and slow in its progress, nevertheless presents some of the characters of an inflammatory complaint during its whole course. The first symptom generally is reported as a deep-seated dull heavy pain unattended by swelling and not increased by motion, but in children the swell- ing is often the first symptom noticed. This is followed by pain, which, although it comes only occasionally, is severe, and is referred almost uniformly to the inside of the knee. Some increase of temperature of the affected joint on comparison with the other knee, can be ascertained. The swelling does not at first encompass the whole joint, but first appears on the anterior and lower part of the knee, occupying in general the two little hollows on the different sides of the ligament which joins the patella to the tibia. This swelling is elastic, and on examination by the finger conveys a sense of softness and fluctuation, as if it contained a fluid, although no fluid to any amount ieally exists. The skin over the knee becomes pale and shining, as if thinned. The subcutaneous veins dilate and become very evident. The muscles of the leg waste, so that the volume of this portion of the affected extremity is con- siderably reduced, and the inferior part of the thigh just over the knee suffers a characteristic diminution in the measure of its circumference. * See Hip, abnormal condition of, Jig. 310; also Cruveilhier, liv. 9. pi. §<fig, 2.