813 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. This specimen of healthy saliva therefore contained, Water 994.98 "Fatty and odorous matter Alcoholic extract and salts ■{ Mucus and epithe- Organic matter, 3.04. 0.06 1.22 Fixed salts, 1.98. lium Ptyalin, watery ex-" tract, salts and traces of mucus . 1.36 2.38 1000.00 If mercury were sought for, the best plan would be to mix a little nitric acid with the sa- liva, evaporate to dryness, mingle the dry mass with well-dried carbonate of soda, to place the mixture in a fine glass tube sealed at one end, and apply the heat of a spirit lamp. If the metal were there, it would sublime and condense as a dew of metallic globules on the cool part of the tube. II.—Ultimate Analysis. Organic bodies consist principally of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, with occa- sionally small quantities of sulphur, phos- phorus, and various metallic, earthy, and saline matters in minute proportions. In cases where the four first elements only are present, the analysis is comparatively easy; and if, as some- times occurs, the substance to be analysed is capable of assuming a crystalline form, its purification is a matter of little difficulty. When, however, saline compounds enter es- sentially into its constitution, as in most animal principles, crystallization is never found to take place. This general absence of crystalline form in animal principles, and the consequent difficulty of ascertaining that they are free from all mois- ture, which does not chemically enter into their constitution, have, by rendering us uncertain of the purity of the substances analysed, mainly contributed to the slow and uncertain progress of this department of chemistry, and have given rise to the numerous contradictory statements with which it abounds. By multiplied researches and experiments we are, how- ever, at length arriving at results on the accuracy of which tolerable confidence may be placed. The determination of the four elements, carbon, hy- drogen, oxygen, and nitro- gen, as they constitute the bulk of most organic sub- stances, is that part of the process which now claims our attention. It is to Gay Lussac and Thenard that we are indebted for the funda- mental principle that re- gulates our operations. The process proposed by them has subsequently been modified and improved by many chemists, especially by Berzelius, Prout, and Liebig, and in the hands of the lat- ter eminent philosopher it has acquired a de- gree of facility and accuracy hitherto uuap- proached in any other department of analytical research. Our object being to determine the relative proportion in which each of the ultimate ele- ments exists, it becomes necessary to the success of any analytical process that we should pro- cure them in the form of definite compounds that can easily be collected; and it has been found most convenient, by supplying the sub- stance to be analysed with a sufficient quantity of oxygen, to convert the carbon into carbonic acid, which may be absorbed by polassa and weighed, and the hydrogen into water, which may likewise, by passing over a substance that has a powerful attraction for it, such as chloride of calcium or sulphuric acid, be collected and weighed, whilst the nitrogen escapes as gas, which is collected over mercury and measured. In cases where nitrogen is present, it has re- cently been proposed to heat the substance to be analysed along with hydrate of soda or potash; all the nitrogen is thus converted into ammonia, in which form, like carbonic acid and water, it admits of being weighed. By calculation it is easy to find the weight of the carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen respectively contained in the car- bonic acid, water, and ammonia collected. Car- bonic acid contains three-elevenths of its weight of carbon; water, one-ninth of hydrogen, and ammonia fourteen-seventeenths of nitrogen. When by incineration of a portion of the mass the proportion of saline matter has been deter- mined, the quantity of oxygen the substance contains may be known by deducting the united weight of the carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and salts from the total weight of the body ana- lysed; the deficiency (supposing sulphur and phosphorus not to have been present) is oxygen. Scrupulous attention to the purity of the matter submitted to analysis is of course of primary importance, a very slight admixture Fig. 429. Apparatus for desiccation of organic substances. A, tube containing chloride of calcium resting on the support B ; c, bent tube containing the matter to be dried and plunged in the bath D ; d, d, caoutchouc connectors; E, vessel containing water, which flows out gradually by the stop-cock/ to maintain a current of air through the apparatus.