MOTION. 410 the whole mass will be supported, whilst in B it will fall over on the side of H. A Fig. 210. B In most animals moving on solids, the centre is supported by variously adapted organs; during the flight of birds and insects it is suspended; but in fishes, which move in a fluid whose density is nearly equal to their specific gravity, the centre is acted upon equally in all directions. The lever.—Levers are commonly divided into three kinds, according to the relative po- sitions of the prop or fulcrum, the power, and the resistance, or weight. The straight lever of each order is equally balanced when the power multiplied by its distance from the fulcrum equals the weight, multiplied by its distance, or P the power, and W the weight, are in equilibrium when they are to each other in the inverse ratio of the arms of the lever, to which they are attached : the pressure on the fulcrum however varies. In straight levers of the first kind, the ful- crum is between the power and the resistance, as in fig. 211, where F is the fulcrum of the Fig. 211. A T B lever A B; P is the power, and W the weight or resistance. We have P : W : : B F : A F, hence P. AF=W. BF, and the pressure on the fulcrum is both the power and resistance, or P+W. In the second order of levers (fig. 212) the resistance is between the fulcrum and the power; and, as before, P : W :: BF : AF, but the pressure of the fulcrum is equal to W—P, or the weight less the power. Fig. 212. W In the third order of lever the power acts between the prop and the resistance (fig. 213), Fig. 213. where also P : W :: BF : AF, and the pressure on the fulcrum is P—W, or the power less the weight. In the preceding computations the weight of the lever itself is neglected for the sake of sim- plicity, but it obviously forms a part of the elements under consideration, especially with reference to the arms and legs of animals. To include the weight of the lever we have the following equations: P. AF+AF. i AF= W. BF+BF. a BF; in the first order where AF and BF represent the weights of these portions of the lever respectively. Similarly, in the second order P. AF —W. BF+AF- ~> and in the third order P. AF=W. BF+BF. BF 2 In this outline of the theory of the lever, the forces have been considered as acting ver- tically, or parallel to the direction of the force of gravity. The head moving backwards and forwards on the atlas acts on the principle of the first kind of lever, the fulcrum being placed between the power and the resistance. The tibia resting on the astragalus acts on the prin- ciple of the second order of lever, when the heel is raised by the tendo Achillis, the re- sistance being between the power and the fulcrum, or between the heel and the toes. In lifting a weight by the hand and bending the elbow-joint, as in fig. 214, in which p the power, or biceps muscle is inserted at a between the fulcrum }', and the resistance w or b, we act on the principle of the third order of lever. In the latter case, however, the power, in- stead of acting vertically, is applied obliquely, and the lever, instead of simply resting on the fulcrum, turns upon a point at f, fig. 214. Instead, therefore, of estimating the values of p and w as before, according to their reciprocal distances from the fulcrum, we resolve each of them into two other forces by perpendiculars drawn from the fulcrum f to the directions of the forces p and w. Thus, in fig. 214, p will not be to w as b f to a f \ but as the perpen- diculars from f on the vertical line through b to that on a c the direction of the insertion of the muscle. The pulley.—The principles of the simple pulley are introduced into the mechanism of animals for the production of motion, and to change the directions of the motions of several organs in reference to that of the tendons