NUTRITION. 748 IlaUer; but it has been generally overlooked by s^sequent physiologists, until attention was dra\^Bto it by the enquiries of Messrs. Addison, Guilder, and others. It is in the buffy coat, however, that the fibrous arrangement is best seen ; &q account, as it would appear, of the stronger attraction which the particles of fibrin have for one another, when its vitality has been raised by the increased elaboration to which it has been subjected. That there are varieties of plasticity in the substance, which, on account of its power of spontaneously coagulating, we must still call jibrin, appears from this fact among others,-—that, in tuberculous subjects, the quantity of fibrin in the blood is higher than usual (Andral and Gavarret), although its plasticity is certainly below par. It is easy to understand, that its plasticity may be increased as that it may be diminished ; and this either in the general mass of the blood, or in a local de- posit. In fact, the adhesions which are formed by the consolidation of coagulable lymph,—or in other words, of liquor sanguinis, whose plas- ticity has been heightened by the vital actions of the white corpuscles in the capillaries of the part on which it has been effused,—often acquire very considerable firmness, before any vessels have penetrated them ; and this firmness must depend upon that mutual attraction of the particles for one another, which in aplastic de- posits is altogether wanting, and which in caco-plastic deposits is deficient. A very inte- resting example of a structure entirely composed of matted fibres, and evidently originating in the simple consolidation of fibrin, has lately been discovered by ihe writer. This is found in the membrane adherent to the interior of the egg-shell (membrana putaminis); and also in that which forms the basis of the egg-shell itself. Between the two, there is no essential difference; as may be seen by examining " an egg without shell," as it is commonly termed, (or rather one in which the shell-membrane has been uncon- solidated by the deposition of calcareous matter); or by treating the egg-shell with dilute acid, so as to remove the particles of carbonate of lime, which are deposited in the interstices of the net- work. The place of the shell is then found to be occupied by a membrane of considerable firmness, closely resembling that which sur- rounds the albumen of the egg, but thicker and more spongy. After maceration for a few days, either of these membranes may be separated into a number of laminae, each of which (if suf- ficiently thin) will show the beautiful arrange- ment of reticulated fibres, which is delineated in the accompanying figure (fig 405). It is impossible to refuse to such a structure the desig- nation of an organised tissue, although it contains no vessels, and must be formed by the simple consolidation of fibrin,poured out from the lining membrane of the oviduct of the bird. It is probably in the same manner, that the chorion of the mammiferous animal originates; since this is a new envelope, formed around the ovum, during its passage along the Fallopian tube. In the latter, for an ulterior purpose, vessels are afterwards developed, by extension from the contained ovum; and by the nutrition they Fig. 405. Membrane of egg-shell. supply, its size is increased, and changes take place in its texture. But in the egg-membrane of the bird, there is no need of vessels ; because no subsequent change in its texture is required, and its duration is sufficient for the purpose it has to answer. In all these instances, the fibrillated structure contains a certain amount of corpuscles, which lie in the meshes of its network. These have been termed " exudation-globules" by some authors,—by others " organic germs,"-—and by others (especially Mr. Addison) are regarded as identical with the white corpuscles of the blood. They may present considerable varie- ties in size and appearance; having in some instances the characters of fully-formed cells, whilst in others they rather resemble nuclei or aggregations of granules. It seems difficult to believe, that they can be identicalv/hh the white corpuscles of the blood ; since if the exudation has been poured forth by open orifices, suffi- ciently large to admit these to pass, there would be no obstacle to the escape of the red corpus- cles,—at least where the latter are of smaller size, as in mammalia. They are probably to be regarded as originating in the fibrinous de- posit, from germs which it contained, when effused from the vessels ; of which germs the while corpuscles may have not improbably been the parents. The degree of their deve- lopement into cells would appear to depend upon the degree of plasticity of the deposit. Not unfrequently they seem arrested in their progress ; especially in cases where the exuda- tion verges towards a caco-plastic character. In the eg^-membrane, very few of these cor- puscles are seen; and as it is thus almost entirely composed of consolidated fibrin, it possesses considerable toughness. The same is the case with highly plastic exudations from inflamed serous surfaces. But in deposits which are less plastic, we see a larger number of these corpuscles, and a diminution and de- creased tenacity of the fibres ; the membrane then becomes quite friabie, and approaches the character of a purulent exudation. The caco- plastic deposits will be presently noticed, un- der the head of Abnormal States of Nutrition. At present we shall proceed to consider the application of these facts to the ordinary con- ditions of that process. The question naturally suggests itself, in limine, whether any of the tissues of the animal body are formed by the simple effusion of fibrin