708 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Microscopical Anatomy of the Nervous Centres.) the direction of which is probably oblique or transverse, as considerable portions of them may be seen taking such a direction when a piece of grey matter, cut transversely, is exa- mined under the microscope. The grey matter of the cord contains caudate and spherical vesicles imbedded in their usual granular matrix. They are found in the horns as well as in the commissure. The caudate vesicles are most numerous, and distend in the anterior horn and at the root of the posterior one. The remainder of the posterior horn and the gelatinous substance which is found at its posterior border, resemble very closely in struc- ture the grey matter of the cerebral convolu- tions. By examining thin transverse sections of the cord, carefully hardened by immersion in spirits, a good view of the relative disposition of the grey and fibrous substances may be ob- tained. Stilling has carried investigations of this kind to a great extent, and has published some beautiful plates, which are quite true to nature. Fig. 396 is copied from one of them. Fig. 396. Transverse section of human spinal cord, close to the third and fourth cervical nerves. Magnified ten dia- meters. ( From Stilting.) f, posterior columns; ii, gelatinous substance of the posterior horn ; It, posterior root; /, supposed anterior roots ; a, anterior fissure ; c, posterior fissure; b, grey commissure, in which a canal is contained, which, according to these writers, ex- tends through the length of the cord ; g, anterior horn of gjtey matter containing vesicles ; e, an- terolateral column, from k to a. It is impossible, however," to obtain any information from such examinations, except of the most general kind. On referring to the figure, the reader will perceive several lines, of the same colour and appearance as the central mass, to radiate from each horn of the grey matter to the surface of the cord, and not only to its external surface, but to that of its fissures. At whatever part of the cord the section be made, whether on a level with the roots of the nerves or between their points of emergence, the same appearance of radiating lines is seen, and the radiation will be found to extend be- tween the central grey matter and whatever part of the surface of the cord the pia mater comes into contact with. Stilling and Wallach suppose that these lines are continuous with the roots of the nerves; that they are, in fact, nerve-tubes proceeding from the grey matter to form these roots. But this supposition seems quite untenable, for the following reasons : 1st, because these lines are met with in situations intermediate to the points of emergence of the nerves ; 2dly, because they pass to situations, such as the surface of the fissures, from which no nerve-roots emanate; 3dly, because, if they were nerve-tubes, they could not be so distinctly seen with so low a power. It is much more probable that they may be processes of grey matter prolonged to- wards the surface, to which bloodvessels may pass from the pia mater, or simply bloodvessels passing from the pia mater to the grey matter. In some well-injected specimens, which Mr. Smee had the goodness to shew me lately, the blood- vessels were seen to take exactly the same direction and course as these lines. Besides the nerve-tubes which are found in considerable numbers in the grey matter, the branching processes of the caudate vesicles are met with in it also, which may be distinguished from the nerve-tubes by the absence of the white substance of Schwann, by their greyish colour, by their branching,and by their minutely granular texture. Capillary bloodvessels are met with in great numbers, ramifying in the grey matter, where they are much more nume- rous than in the fibrous matter. Stilling and Wallach describe a canal passing through the centre of the grey commissure, and extending the whole length of the cord. This is certainly visible in most regions, but riot in all. It seems to me to have much more the appearance of a bloodvessel than of a canal. According to these authors, it is the persistent condition of the much-talked of canal of the spinal cord referred to at a previous page. Its situation in the grey matter seems rather op- posed to this view. The point, however, is one upon which I am not prepared to express a decided opinion at present, and which de- serves more extended careful examination. From a review of the preceding statements, it is plain that a large number of fibres pass into the grey matter of the cord, and probably form some intimate connection with its minute elements; and this fact is favourable to the supposition that the spinal nerves derive their origin, at least partly, from the grey matter. It must be admitted, either that these fibres unite with the vesicles of the grey matter in some way, or that they pass up to the brain through the grey matter; the former seems the more reasonable supposition, and more consistent with the apparent oblique or transverse direc- , tion which the fibres take in the grey matter. The minute structure of the medulla oblon- gata resembles in many particulars that of the spinal cord. There is not, however, so com- plete an isolation of the fibrous matter in it as in the latter. Excepting in the anterior pyra- mids, and quite on the posterior and lateral surfaces, the two kinds of nervous substance