MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 434 diforti Thesauro, torn. ii. p. 265. Roterod. 1769. we are justified in considering, 1st, that mucus degree by the addition of concentrated saline solutions, whereas, by some experiments lately made with my friend Mr. Lane, I have been satisfied that the mucus globules are so affected, and may easily be observed, under a powerful microscope, to expand or contract according as water, or strong solutions are mixed with them. The mucus globule admits, in fact, of the exudation or imbibition of fluids according to the laws of endosmose and exosmose, and were the greater part of a mass of mucus composed of these globules, we should observe it to corrugate in concentrated solutions; but such is not the case, as I have before stated, with many of the most viscous forms of mucus, while the mucus of the bladder, on the con- trary, which (except in severe diseases) is one of the least coherent forms, shows a tendency to contract under such circumstances, and on microscopic examination proves to contain globules in large number in proportion to its mass. This reaction, I think, renders it very probable that the view I have mentioned is the correct one. Most forms of mucus swell when moistened by water or weak solutions; but this is no proof of action on organic globules unless the opposite experiment (contraction by strong solutions) can be successfully performed. The mucus globule varies greatly, as seen in different secretions; so much so that any one who has examined this subject microscopically must be familiar with a form of globule peculiar to each secretion. I shall first describe the globule generally, and then proceed to notice its varieties in appearance. The mucus globule is nearly transparent, and larger than the blood globule. As it exists in the saliva and urine it is of a very regularly circular form, with a well defined margin and a somewhat granular surface. In the more adhesive forms of ex- pectoration, however, it loses this well defined and rounded form, and its translucence is impaired ; the granular surface can always, however, be seen. In a portion of mucus taken from the back of the throat I lately had an opportunity of examining this last mentioned condition, and took occasion to examine whether or not it depended on a partially empty condition of the globule, which could be remedied by the addition of water. I found, by careful treatment, in this way under the microscope, that the bodies gradually assumed a more rounded form, and eventually exhibited an appearance almost identical with the more transparent globules observed in the saliva and urine. By sub- sequently adding a concentrated solution of sugar to them, however, the original appearance was speedily reinduced, owing to the endos- modic action of the sirop. This experiment has led me to a belief that the cause of difference in the microscopic appearance of the mucus globule, as seen in different secretions, is attributable rather to the circumstances under which it is placed than to any difference in organization. It would appear, from the facts collected up to the present moment on this subject, that is a compound of albumen in a state of close combination with alkaline salts, and probably free alkali; 2nd, that the artificial compound formed by the addition of alkalies and neutral salts to albuminous matter is essentially the same as mucus; 3rd, that the mucus globule is superadded to the viscous matter in the secretions of mucous membranes, and is in no way concerned in imparting the peculiar tenacious character to such fluids. A great deal of trouble has been taken to devise chemical means of distinguishing be- tween pus and mucus, or to detect the presence of the former when existing combined in small proportion with the latter. No chemical method of inquiry can ever be applicable to this question : the microscope must be had recourse to for the detection of the pus globule, if the mucus be suspected to contain it in quantity so small as to escape casual exami- nation. When pus is present, however, even in very small proportion to the mucus, its physical characters are so distinct that no chemical or microscopical tests can possibly be required. Considered as a means of proof, the folly of using chemical tests is at once apparent when we recollect that the question as regards pus is entirely one of structure, and we cannot in reason use chemical tests to determine the presence or absence of a globule. When pus exists as a deposit in urine, we may easily distinguish it from the phosphates with which it is sometimes con- founded by adding an alkali, as recommended by Dr. Babington, in which case the deposit (which must be previously separated by de- cantation from the urine) assumes the glairy character of mucus, and thus shows its albu- minous nature. As affording us a distinctive test, therefore, between these two substances, chemistry becomes useful; but inasmuch as the addition of alkali to most forms of albu- minous matter developes a mucous tenacity, the re-agent cannot correctly be called a test for pus. We become assured of the presence of pus by this reaction only, because previous experiment has shown that the phosphates and pus are the only two substances assuming a peculiar and similar appearance in the urine. ( G. Owen Rees.) MUCOUS MEMBRANE.—This term has been usually and properly restricted to those large expansions of membrane, in the interior of the body, which are continuous with the external tegument: but it is impossible, in the present state of knowledge, to treat of these apart from the true glands and the skin, which form with them a great system, to which the generic term mucous will be applied in this article. Many anatomists since the time of Bonn* have treated of the mucous membranes and skin under the common title of tegumentary membranes; and the opinion has been gradu- * Bonn, Specimen Anatomico-Medicum Inang. &c. de continuationibus membranamm, &c. in San-