js Centres. The Spinal Cord.) 660 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervo tion of the pia mater with the nervous fibres themselves. He also very properly cautions the dissector against a deceptive appearance connected with the passage of those blood- vessels which enter the lateral fissure, in order to reach the internal grey substance. " Without due precaution," he adds, " these vascular branches may themselves be readily mistaken for nervous fibrils; but they are es- pecially liable to be productive of error, be- cause, when they are made tense, they cause • those portions of the longitudinal fibres of the cord, which are left between them to assume exactly the appearance of flat transverse fibres ; this circumstance probably misled Gall, and induced him to suppose that all the fibres of the spinal nerves were connected with the grey substance." The following is Mr. Grainger's account of the result of his examinations conducted with the precautions above specified. " After repeated examinations, I satisfied myself that each root was connected both with the external fibrous part of the cord and the interna! grey substance. The following is what appears to be the structure: after the two roots have perforated the theca vertebral is, and so reached the surface of the cord, it is well known that their fibres begin to separate from each other; of these fibres, some are lost in the white substance, whilst others, entering more deeply into the lateral furrows, are found to continue their course, nearly at a right angle with the spinal cord itself, as far as the grey substance in which they are lost. But this ar- rangement has no resemblance to the distinct division into fasciculi, depicted by Mr. Mayo; on the contrary, it is with great care only that small, delicate, individual threads or striae, as it were, are traced, dipping into the lateral fissure, and at length joining the grey matter. This difficulty is owing to the fact that whilst the fibres on the outer surface of the pia mater adhere very intimately with that strong mem- brane, on its inner surface, the membrane be- comes so extremely delicate, that the fibres lose much of their firmness, and break on the application of the least force; an accident which always happens if the pia mater be raised from the surface of the spinal cord, beyond the point where the nerves are attached. When the filaments have penetrated into the fissure, they lose their rounded figure and become flat- tened, and are then seen passing to the grey substance at a right angle to the longitudinal fibres. It is extremely difficult, owing to the delicacy of the parts, to determine the exact relations which exist between the above fila- ments and the grey matter ; but in a few dis- sections I have been able to perceive these fibrils running like delicate striae in the grey substance. In one instance the fibres, being more distinct than usual, an appearance was presented having a remarkable resemblance to that which is seen on making a section of the corpus striatum in a recent brain, after the method of Spurzheim. My friend and col- league, Mr. Cooper, in this case counted dis- tinctly five separate fibrils passing from the anterior root of one nerve, and there were some other fibres derived from the same root, which were not so plainly seen." " From numerous examinations," continues Mr. Grainger, " I am induced to believe that whenever the white fibres of the nervous system become connected with the grey substance, whether in the different masses of the brain, in the spinal cord, or in the ganglions, the ar- rangement is similar to what is seen m the section of the corpus striatum to which refer- ence has just been made. The fibres become as it were encrusted with the grey matter, a dispo- sition which m;iy even be seen by a careful in- spection in the convolutions of the cerebrum, in which the radiating fibres of the crus ce- rebri are observed like delicate striae." I have repeated the dissections of the roots of the nerves in the manner described by Mr. Grainger, and am enabled to confirm his general results. It appeared to me, however, that considerably the greater number of the fibres passed in at right angles, whilst those which might be supposed to take an upward course were few and indistinct, and seemed rather to pass obliquely inwards and slightly upwards thnn to approach the vertical direction. In short, when the fibres had penetrated the medullary substance, they seemed to diverge from one another,—those which occupied a central position preserving much more of paral- lelism than either the upper or the lower ones. It is extremely difficult to demonstrate the direct continuity between the fibres of the nervous roots and those of the cord. Valentin has, indeed, depicted the transition of nerve fibres into the spinal cord {see Jig. 330, p. 592) as seen by the microscope; but these may be passing to the grey matter of the cord. The continuity of the fibres of the nerves with the longitudinal fibres of the cord would probably take place at the surface of the latter in greater numbers than at more deeply-seated planes. In the dissections above described, such fibres would be very apt to be destroyed' or to be overlooked. Mr. Grainger, in the work before referred to, speaks evidently with much greater confidence of the connexion of the roots of the nerves with the grey matter than of their con- tinuity with the longitudinal fibres. He ex- presses his conviction, however, that such a continuity does exist, although the exact mode of connexion and the situation at which it occurs cannot be demonstrated. This question, respecting the precise relation of the roots of the nerves to the cord, is one of those in which physiology in a certain sense takes the lead of anatomy. Experiment has made it certain that while the spinal cord serves as a propagator of nervous power to and from the brain, as in the ordinary sensations and voluntary movements of the trunk and extremi- ties, it is likewise capable of acting as an independent nervous centre, and that move- ments of a very definite character may be pro- duced in parts connected with it, even after all communication between it and the brain has been cut off. And it has been supposed by one of the most zealous labourers in this depart-