848 OSSEOUS TISSUE. >w iff .'" „. a*ii mm. Transverse section from the dense portion of the femur. a, Haversian canal ; 6, concentric lamina;; c, lamina; of connection ; d, corpuscles, with their system of tubes. The parts marked a, b, and d constitute an Haversian system. The 6gure includes three systems with lamina; of connection uniting them. lected, it will be found to contain no Haversian canals or corpuscles, but to be extremely thin and transparent. Such a portion, when viewed with the one-eighth of an inch object-glass of Mr. Powell's microscope, will present a deli- cate granular aspect with the surface nodulated. This granular appearance arises from the sub- stance of the bone being composed of minute irregularly spherical granules. It is not diffi- cult to trace this structure in any specimen of bone, though in some it is much more distinct than in others. Specimens put up in Canada balsam do not show the minute structure very well. It is best to place the object between two slips of glass with a little plain water. A delicate spicula from the point where os- sification is going on is usually very good for illustrating the granular tissue. But the granules may be obtained separated from each other, so that each individual may be examined apart from its fellows. When so exposed to view, they exhibit a tolerably re- gular character, being mostly spherical, some few having an oval form. In some specimens the oval predominates over the spherical con- formations. Often a few will be found which are egg shaped, with the smaller end elongated, (see Jig. 449,) though to no great extent. The osseous granules may be gained by subjecting bone to high-pressure steam, or to a red heat, till all the animal matter is removed. In either instance the granules maybe obtained by taking Fig. 449. *0 , 0 . c>d « SIR 0 Ultimate osseous grannies obtained by depriving the bone of its animal matter. a small portion of the so treated bone, satura- ting it with water, and then gently reducing it to a powder between the slips of glass. By this manipulation the granules individually will be rendered evident when the specimen is exa- mined under a high power. But, by the break- ing down of the mass, many granules are neces- sarily broken; to remedy this imperfect and con-