ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 73 also a displacement more or less considerable according to the degree of displacement of the tibia. In these incomplete dislocations of the knee-joint, the patella, it is said, suffers but little displacement, its long axis only becoming oblique, and the lower point of the patella being directed either outwards or inwards, towards the tubercle of the tibia, according to the nature and direction of the dislocation. These are the opinions of Boyer, who evidently has not witnessed many cases of either complete or incomplete dislocations of the knee-joint. From what we ourselves have noticed of the situation the patella takes when the bones are displaced under the influence of disease, we should be disposed to believe that even in partial luxa- tion of these bones laterally—particularly in the dislocation of the femur inwards and of the tibia outwards—in this case the patella would be thrown completely over the trochlea and lie on the outer side of the external condyle, as in Jig. 6 and 8. If the limb be flexed and at the same time the tibia everted, such an event appears almost inevitable. Dislocations of the patella.—Although the patella is not articulated with the tibia, never- theless it is so strongly attached to this bone by ligament that the leg cannot be luxated from the femur without the patella necessarily undergoing a change of place ; but the patella may be luxated independently of the tibia. Authors speak of luxations of the patella in the directions upwards, downwards, inwards, and outwards ; but of these the two last alone deserve the name of luxations. The patella cannot descend beneath its usual place unless the extensor muscles of the leg be torn from their attachment to its upper margin ; nor can this bone be elevated above its usual situation unless the ligamentum patellae be ruptured. Luxations of the patella then may take place in the direction inwards or outwards. The latter is decidedly the more common. Either luxation may be complete or incomplete. ( Boi/er.) Complete luxation of the patella outwards.— In this accident the patella is thrown com- pletely off the articular trochlea of the femur. The internal edge of the bone is directed for- wards, its external edge backwards; its pos- terior cartilaginous surface is applied to the outer surface of the external condyle of the os femoris, and its anterior or subcutaneous surface is turned completely outwards. In this case the ligamentum patellae is somewhat twisted on itself, and its direction rendered oblique. We recognize the complete luxation out- wards by the extended condition of the pa- tient's limb, by his inability to flex it, by the severity of the pain when he attempts to do so, and by the depression which is observed to exist in the place the patella had abandoned, (at the bottom of which depression we can easily distinguish the articular pulley of the femur); finally, by the tumour formed by the patella on the anterior part of the tuberosity of the external condyle of this bone. The acci- dent usually occurs to a person who, while walking or running, falls with the knee turned inwards and foot outwards, and thus by the violent action of the extensor muscles instinc- tively exerted to prevent the fall the patella is drawn over the external condyle of the os fe- moris. When the person rises he finds him- self unable to bend or extend his leg, and the muscles and ligaments of the patella are on the stretch. This accident is generally the effect of muscular action, but the dislocation may result from accidental force acting on the patella. In the greatest possible flexion of the leg the patella is too much sunk between the condyles of the femur, and is too strongly applied against these eminences by its ligament and by the tendon of the extensor muscles, to permit it to yield to the action of external force. But, on the contrary, when the leg is moderately extended, these attachments are relaxed; the bone projects more, and enjoys greater mo- bility, which renders it susceptible of yielding and of being displaced either outwards or in- wards according to the direction of the impelling force. The luxation outwards, more easy and more frequent than that inwards, is.ordinarily, as we have stated, the effect of a force acting upon the internal edge of the patella, by which this bone is pushed outwards, the leg being at the time either extended or moderately flexed. The natural prominence of the internal border of the patella renders it liable to beaded upon by blows, &c, and to be from this cause fre- quently thrown outwards over the external con- dyle of the femur. The patella is sometimes dislocated spon- taneously in persons of weak habit and of lax fibre, as it is denominated. If a person of this constitution be so malformed that the knees are directed too much inwards, the patella1 are from this cause still more predisposed to spon- taneous luxation. The mere circumstance of the existence of a faulty inclination of the knees inwards is not sufficient in itself to pre- dispose a patient strongly to a dislocation of the patella outwards ; but when such a malforma- tion coincides with an habitual state of mus- cular relaxation, this spontaneous luxation is likely to occur. Luxation of the patella inwards.—-This lux- ation is much less frequent than that outwards. It happens from falls against a projecting body, by which the patella is struck upon its outer side, the leg being at the time of the fall turned inwards. We require no other signs to enable us to recognize this accident than the cavity we notice in the place the bone has left, and the eminence it forms in the place to which it has been transferred, namely, on the internal side of the inner condyle of the femur. Incomplete luxation of the patella.— The signs of this incomplete luxation are so evi- dent* that it is impossible to mistake them. The leg is extended, and if we endeavour to flex it, the pain the patient suffers is conside- rably increased. The natural form of the knee is altered; we perceive through the skin the * Boyer.