D56 PISCES. breeding season, alone occupies and guides them, is to assuage the internal feeling of hunger, to devour almost all that they can. To pursue a prey or to escape from a pursuer makes the occupation of their life; it is this which determines their choice of the different situations which they inhabit; it is the prin- cipal cause of the variely of their forms and of the special instincts or artifices which nature has granted to some of the species." " Vicissitudes of temperature affect them little, not only because these are less in the ele- ment which they inhabit than in our atmosphere, but because their bodies taking the surrounding temperature the contrast of external cold and internal heat scarcely exists in their case. Thus the seasons are not so exclusively the regulators of their migration and propagation as amongst Quadrupeds or more especially Birds. Many Fishes spawn in winter; it is towards autumn that herrings come out of the north to shed upon our coast their spawn and milt. It is in the north that the most astonishing fecundity is witnessed, if not in variety of species, at least in individuals ; and in no other seas do we find anything approaching to the countless myriads of herrings and cod which attract whole fleets to the northern fisheries." " The loves of Fishes are cold as themselves; they only indicate individual need. Scarcely is it permitted to a few species that the two sexes should pair and enjoy pleasure together; in the rest the males pursue the eggs rather than seek the females; they are reduced to impregnate eggs the mother of which is un- known, and whose produce they will never see. The pleasures of maternity are equally un- known to most species ; a small number only carry their eggs with them for a short time ; with few exceptions Fishes have no nest to build and no young to nourish : in a word, even to the last details, their economy contrasts diame- trically with that of Birds." In no class of the animal kingdom do we find such diversity of form as in that of Fishes. Some amongst them are perfectly spherical, as the Dioduns. Others are discoidal, or flat and circular, and this shape may be produced by two very different conditions, resulting either from an excessive narrowing or inordinate ex- pansion of the two sides of the body. In the first case it is compressed and much elevated, as in Vomer and Orthagoriscus, while in the second case it is much depressed, flattened, and very broad, as in the Skates. Other species are oval, more or less elongated and slightly compressed laterally, such as Carp, Trout, &c, which is the most ordinary shape. Neverthe- less when these become extended longitudi- nally (as in the Pikes for example), we are insensibly conducted by all intermediate grada- tions of form to the cylindrical Eels, or to com- pressed and riband-shaped Fishes, such as Cepola. Perhaps the most remarkably shaped Fishes are those whose bodies are bounded by nearly flat surfaces, and which circumscribe angular figures, such as triangles, squares, pen- tagons,hexagons, &c.,f Ostracion, Syngnathus.) There are even certain genera in which the two sides are not symmetrical, one being flattened and the other vaulted, and in these races even the bones of the cranium are so disproportioned that both eyes are turned to the same side of the animal ( Pleuronectidte). The following arrangement, being a modifi- cation of the classification proposed by Cuvier, will facilitate our investigations relative to the anatomy of the numerous members of this extensive class. PISCES. Division 1.- CHONDROPTERYGII. Skeleton cartilaginous, fins supported by cartilaginous rays. Order I.—Branchiae fixed. 1st Family. — Plagiostomata. Squalus, Zygana, Squatina, Pristis, Raia. Order II.—Branchiae free. 1st Family. — Sturionid*. Accipenser, Spatularia, Chimara. Division ll.—OSTEOPTERYGII. Skeleton composed of true bone. Order I.—ACANTHOPTERYGII. The Fishes belonging to this division are at once recognised by the stiff spines which con- stitute the first fin-rays of the dorsal fin, or which support the anterior fin of the back in case there are two dorsals. In some cases the an- terior dorsal fin is only represented by detached spines. The first rays of the anal fin are like- wise spinous as well as the first ray of the ven- tral fin. This order, which comprises by far the greater number of osseous Fishes, is divi- sible into the following families. 1st Family. — Percid^e. Perca, Labrax, Fates, Centropomus, Grammistcs, Aspro, Apo- gun, C/ieilodipterus, Pomalomus, Ambassis, Lucio-Perca, Serranus, Plectropoma, Diacope, Mesoprion, Acerina, Ryplicus, Polyprion, Centropristis, Gristes, Cirrhites, Chironemus, Pomutis, Centrarehus, Priacanthus, Dales, Therupun, Pelates, Helutes, Trichodon, Sillago, Holocentrum, Myripristis, Beryx, Trachiehtys, Truchinus, Percis, Pinguipes, Percophis, Uran- oscopus, Polynemus, Sphyrana, Paralepis, Mullus. 2nd Family.—Sci,EROGENiD^(hard cheeks). Trigla, Prionotes, Pcristedion, Dactylopterus, Cephalacanthes, Coitus, Hemitripterus, Hemi- lepidotus, Platycephalus, Scorpa:na, Pterois, Blepsias, A pistes, Agriopes, Pelors, Synartceia, Monocentris, Gusterosteus, Oreosoma. 3d Family. — Sci*nid;e. Sciana, Fques, HtEmulon, Pristipoma, Diagramma, Lobotes, Cheiluductyles, Scolopsides, Micropterus, Am- phiprion, Premnas, Pumacentres, Dascyllus, Glyphisodon, Heliases. 4th Family.—-Sparidje. Sargus, Chryso- phris, Pagrus, Pagellus, Dentex, Cant/tarus, Boops, Oblada. 5 th Family.-—-M^nid^e. Mama, Smaris, Casio, Gerrus. 6th Family.— Squammipennes. Choeto-