720r PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. vol. in. o 2 *** nerves, of which one has been satisfactorily proved to be sentient, the other motor, the former being generally the larger, and having the peculiar feature of a ganglion being formed upon it. Theie is scarcely a nerve in the body, which, in strictness, ought not to be regarded as a com- pound one ; the physiological character of each nerve must depend on the endowment of the ma- jority of its fibres, and the nerve will be called sensitive or motor, according to the predomi- nance of motor or sensitive fibres in it. For example, the facial nerve, orportio dura of the seventh pair, is called motor, because it is almost wholly composed of motor fibres ; but it contains, besides, in very much smaller number, some sensitive filaments which it derives from anastomoses with neighbouring nerves. The third, fourth, and sixth nerves are of similar constitution to the facial. In the ramifications of the fifth nerve, on the other hand, the filaments of sensation are predomi- nant; those of motion being much fewer, and confined to the ramifications of its inferior maxillary division. There is no difference between a motor, and a sensitive nerve as regards structure. Ehrenberg, indeed, endeavoured to establish that the vari- cose character of the fibre belonged to nerves of special sense; but subsequent observation showed this to be incorrect. We can attribute the difference of endowment of the fibres to no other cause, but to the nature of their peri- pheral and central connections. The same nervous force is propagated by the fibres of each kind, but whether that force is to excite motion or sensation must depend on the connec- tion of the fibres with muscles in the one case, and with the centre of sensation in the other. The terms afferent and efferent have been used in expressing the function of different fibres, and they are convenient terms to a cer- tain extent. But the use of them tends to con- vey erroneous ideas respecting the change which takes place in a nerve when stimulated, as if that change took place only in one direction. It is true that, in a motor nerve, the stimulus ordinarily acts from the centre, and the nervous force is propagated peripherad; and on the other hand, in the sentient nerve, the stimulus is usually applied at the periphery, and the nervous force proceeds centrad. It is the place at which the stimulus is applied which usually determines the direction in which the nervous force travels. But there are no good grounds for supposing that the molecular change con- sequent upon the stimulation of a nerve is limited to that part of the nerve-fibre which is included between the point stimulated, and the centre or the muscles, where the effect of the stimulation appears; on the contrary, it is not improbable that, at whatever point the stimulus be applied, the whole length of the nerve-fibre participates in the change. This is not unlikely in the case of motor nerves. For a continued or violent irritation of a motor nerve, in some part of its course, caus- ing spasm or convulsive movement of the muscles it supplies, may be propagated along its whole length to the centre, and may there give rise to irritation of neighbouring fibres, whether motor or sensitive, exciting more con- vulsion and pain. The phenomena of many cases of epilepsy, in which the fit begins with irritation of a few muscles, may be referred to in illustration of this position.* And it is also very probable as regards sensitive nerves. If the ulnar nerve be irritated when it passes be- hind the internal condyle, a sensation of tingling is excited, which is referred to the sentient surface of the ring and little fingers; and if the irritation is kept up, the skin of those fingers becomes tender to the touch, its sensibility being very much exalted. This fact cannot be explained unless upon the supposition that the molecular change in the nerve-fibres, pro- duced by the irritation, extended to the peri- phery as well as to the centre, exalting the excitability of their distal extremities. It is a highly interesting physiological fact, which has an important practical bearing, that at whatever part of their course sentient nerve- fibres be irritated, the same sensation will be produced, whether the seat of the irritation be the centre, the periphery, or the middle of their course, provided only the same fibres are irri- tated in the same degree. Thus it frequently happens that sensations.are referred to the ex- tremities of a nerve when the existing irritation is situated at its point of implantation in the centre. The sensation of tingling or formica- tion, in the hand or foot, arm or leg, is fre- quently an indication of cerebral or spinal disease ; but the practitioner should not forget that precisely the same sensation may be caused by an irritation taking place in the course of the nerve. I have frequent occasion to estimate the importance of this fact in the treatment of cases of Sciatica. This disease generally con- sists in an irritated state of the nerve in some part of its course by a gouty matter, and it may be treated with the best effects by blisters ap- plied over the nerve. As, however, the morbid impregnation may have taken place at any part of the course of the nerve, it is a very useful practice, when a single application fails, to apply the blisters over different parts in succession, instead of confining the vesication to one region. This law of action of sensitive nerves gives the clue to the explanation of the extraordinary but well-attested fact, that persons who have suffered amputation will continue to feel a con- sciousness of the piesence of the amputated limb, immediately after, and often for a long- time, or even always, after its removal. I have met with two cases, in one of which the arm, in the other the leg, was amputated so long before as forty years ; yet each person declared that he had the sensation of his fingers or toes as distinctly as before the operation. And not only does the consciousness above referred to exist, but likewise, when the principal nerve of the limb is irritated, the patient complains of pains or tingling, which he refers to the fingers * I am aware that these phenomena admit of another explanation, but there is no reason why they might not likewise originate, in many cases, in irritation of a few motor fibres.