990 PISCES. Fie. 523. Lepidosiren. position of any contractile organs corresponding with the left side of the heart of Mammalia, immediately proceeds to give off branches to the trunk and abdominal viscera. Almost close to its commencement it sends into the abdomen the large visceral trunk, which sup- plies all the abdominal viscera with blood, being distributed to the liver, to the stomach, to the intestines, to the spleen, to the generative organs, and to the swimming bladder. After giving off the above large visceral ar- tery, the aorta continues its course backwards beneath the bodies of the supra-abdominal ver- tebra ; but as soon as it reaches the post-abdo- minal vertebra, it enters the canal formed by their inferior arches (hamapophyses), through which it passes backwards to the tail. During its passage through the abdomen the aorta fur- nishes arteries right and left to the kidneys, between which it lies; but with this exception all its branches, which are given off opposite each vertebra like the intercostal arteries of the human subject, are distributed to the mus- cles of the trunk. Venous system.—All the arteries given off from the aorta are accompanied by correspond- ing venous branches, through which the blood is returned into two large veins, one above and the other beneath the vertebral column. The former running with the spinal cord in the su- perior vertebral canal, the other being in con- tact with the aorta through its whole length, these great veins frequently intercommunicate by means of inosculating branches, and the inferior one ultimately terminates in the great venous sinus that opens into the auricle of the heart. This sinus likewise receives through several different trunks the veins from the liver, from the generative organs, from the kidneys, from the pectoral and vential fins, from the branchial organs and other parts of the throat, and like- wise from the head, the blood derived from the head having been previously collected in a large sinus. The highest form of the respiratory and cir- culatory apparatus met with in Fishes is found in the Lepidosiren, a remarkable genus found in the river Amazon and in the Gambia.* In this interesting creature the gills of the fish are combined with rudimentary air-sacs which per- form the office of lungs, and, in fact, the whole arrangement of its circulatory system approxi- mates so nearly that of the amphibious reptiles that, were it not for its otherwise completely icthyic characters, it might almost be regarded * Professor Owen, Description of Lepidosiren annectens. Trans, of Linn*an Society, vol. xviii. as belonging to that order of Reptilia with which it forms an interesting link of connec- tion. The branchiae of the Lepidosiren consist of separate elongated filaments attached by one extremity to the branchial arches, which are four in number. These cartilaginous branchial arches are developed on each side in the sub- mucous tissue, and are not attached either to the os hyoides below or to the cranium above. The membrane covering the third, fourth, and fifth arches is minutely papillose, while the margins of the first and second are finely denticulated, and between these are five branchial apertures, or interspaces, through which bristles are repre- sented as passing in the accompanying figure, (fig- 524, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.) The gills do not form any external projection as in the gill-bearing Perennibranchian Am- phibia, but are con- tained in a moderately capacious branchial chamber, the parietes of which are formed by a mucous and muscu- lar stratum, the external outlet being a vertical slit situated immedi- ately anterior to the filamentary pectoral limb. " Thus," observes Professor Owen, " al- though the organs of re- spiration through the medium of water cor- respond in all essential points with those of the true fishes, yet the gills approximate in their filamentary form to those of the Perenni- branchiate Reptiles. And again, although the gills are four in number on each side, as in the osseous fishes, yet the number of branchial apertures and arches corresponds with that which cha- racterizes the higher cartilaginous fishes. So that, while we perceive, even in the organs for breathing water, a ten- UN Respiratory organs of Lepidosiren annectens. After Owen. a, first lobe of the tongue; b, second lobe of the tongue; c, pha- rynx ; d, pharyngeal valve; e, opening of larynx ; f, laryngeal or thyroid cartilage ; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, interspaces be- tween branchial arches.