NOSE. 736 ing, the sensation which immediately precedes the act may be the consequence of direct irri- tation of the glottis, or of irritation of another part, such as the distant bronchial tubes, from which the impression is conveyed to the brain, and there, as it is supposed, is radiated to the central extremities of the nerves of the glottis, and is felt as if it were applied to their peri- pheral extremities. In either case the peculiar sensation at the glottis is the necessary pre- cedent of the act of coughing; and it is the same in sneezing. A sudden vivid impression of light upon the retina, or, sometimes, the irritation of a tender point on the skin of the face, produces a sensation of pain or irritation in the mucous membrane of the nose, and sneezing follows. The sequence of events may be supposed to be,—an impression on the peri- pheral filaments of the retina,—its conveyance to their central extremities in the brain,—its radiation to the central extremities of the sen- sitive nerves of the nose, producing the same sensation as if their peripheral extremities had been irritated,—and, through that sensation, whether it be objective or subjective, the half involuntary act. The great prominence of the external nose, and the comparative smallness of its internal cavities, form one of the most distinguishing characters of the human face. Cuvier has pointed out how the relative proportion in size between the cranium and the cavities of the nose and mouth affords an indication of the approach towards perfection of the internal and intellectual faculties in comparison with the external or sentient. For the senses of smell and taste " are those which act on animals with the most force, which most powerfully master them, through the energy which two of the most pressing desires, hunger and lust, communicate to their impressions.''* But in man the sense of smell is, in both these re- gards, subordinate to that of sight; and the developement of his internal olfactory appa- ratus is, in comparison with that of lower ani- mals, extremely small. In the varieties of the human race the perfection of the sense and the developement of its organ are the less the more civilized their several habits of life are. Among ourselves, the blind alone maintain the sense in the energy of which it is capable, and in which it is said to be habitually exerted in some less civilized tribes. In the latter a greater developement of the organ of smell, and even of its osseous part, corresponds with its greater acuteness and the degree in which it is exerted. The greater distance between the orbits, which is especially remarkable in the Kalmucks and other Mongolian tribes, may be an indication of this greater developement; but a more important one is the size and com ■ plexity of the turbinated bones. The nasal fossae of the skulls of Negroes are larger in all their dimensions than those of Europeans; and Soemmering,t in numerous examinations, found the sinuses within the middle turbinated bones * Le£ons d'Anatomie Comparee, ii. 160. t Ueber die Vcrschiedenlieit des Negers. constant in the Negro, though rare in others. Blumenbach* con firms both these observations, and mentions particularly the skull of a North- American Indian in his collection, in which these sinuses were of extraordinary size. How- ever, these differences of size are probably not a full measure of the differences of acuteness of the sense: it is most likely that in the nose as in the other organs of sense, acuteness of perception is connected with fineness of di- vision, rather than with extent of distribution, of the recipient nerve. The prominence of the nose is even more characteristic of man than the smallness of its cavities. In other Mammalia it stands out, indeed, much further from the skull, but it is in company with the upper jaw, beyond which it does not, as in man, project. For the same reason, the nostrils, which in man are hori- zontal and directed downwards, in adaptation to his erect posture, and to his hand ever ready to carry objects to them, are, in the lower ani- mals, vertical. The nasal processes of their superior maxillary bones, also, lying flat and being very broad, and the small size of their nasal bones, prevent the peculiarly human elevation of the bridge of the nose. The forms of the external nose are among the characteristics of the varieties of our spe- cies. In all its almost infinite varieties of form the Caucasian nose is on the whole narrow, elongated downwards, and elevated at the bridge; the Mongolian is flat and very broad at its base; the American less flat than the Mongolian, but less prominent than the Cau- casian ; the Ethiopian flat, broad, and very thick at its base; the Malay full and broad, and, in general, thicker at its apex than the other varieties are. As for the varieties of form in the individuals of the same race or nation, they have little, if any, physiological interest: they are not known to have any con- nection with differences of function, and the importance they have acquired is founded on the unsupported notion that they are charac- teristic of corresponding varieties of temper and of intellect. MORBID ANATOMY OF THE NOSE. Congenital defects.—The extreme of these is found when the normal state of the very early foetus continues and the nose is nearly absent. Such a case is described by Soemmering. The child was born at the full term : the brain was malformed, and there were no olfactory nerves. In place of nasal bones there was but one small lens-shaped bone, and the ethmoid bone was little developed: the eyes were close together, but the orbits had not coalesced. A similar example is mentioned by Roederer, in which a child with malformed ears had in place of nose a scarcely perceptible elevation, no nostrils, and for nasal fossae a blind pouch formed by mucous membrane. Vrolik,f by whom these cases are quoted, describes another in a pig * Institutiones Physiologicse. t Handbook der Ziektekundige Ontlcedkunde, D. ii. p. 70.