PISCES. 970 lis. 505. Myology of the Perch men by strong fleshy origins covered with dense aponeurosis. Above the pelvic arch they di- vide into numerous tendinous slips which run backwards in separate sheaths, each successively approximating the middle line of the body, where they are inserted on the dorsal aspect of each vertebra as far as the extremity of the tail. The inferior lateral muscles, like the prece- ding, take their origin in the lumbar region, and present nearly the same arrangement, only their tendons are much more slender than those of the superior set. At their termination each tendon bifurcates, allowing that appropriated to the succeeding vertebra to pass through it so as mutually to form sheaths to each other, so that they are all, except the last, both perj'oruti and perfurantes. Osseous Fishes have no special muscles ap- pointed for the movements of the head, but in the Rays there are three destined to this office, one serving to move the head upon the trunk, the other two raising and depressing the extre- mity of their elongated snout. The former is situated upon the upper as- pect of the body above the branchial cavity. It arises from the vertebral column and from the anterior portion of the pector.d zone. Its inser- tion is into the posterior region of the head, which it raises towards the back. Of the two muscles of the snout, the superior arises also from the scapular cincture by a short fleshy belly, from which a thin cylindrical ten- don is given off. This runs in a mucous sheath, above the branchia; to the base of the snout where it is inserted, serving of course to raise it upwards. The other is situated beneath the body within the branchial cavity, where it arises from the After Cuvier. anterior cartilages of the vertebral column. It runs obliquely outwards, and afterwards in- wards, so as to describe a curvature, the con- vexity of which is external. Its insertion is almost entirely fleshy into the base of the ros- trum, which it bends or curves towards the belly. The muscles of the huge pectoral fins form two thick fleshy layers, covering these limbs both above and below, and dividing into as many fasciculi as there are fin rays, into which they are inserted. A similar arrangement exists likewise in the ventral fins, the representatives of hinder extremities. The muscles of the jaws in the cartilaginous Fishes are more numerous than in those pos- sessed of an osseous skeleton. The lower jaw of the Skate is depressed by a large oblong muscular mass, composed of straight parallel fibres, which, taking its origin from the anterior margin of the transverse cartilaginous belt that sustains the pectoral fins, runs forward to be in- serted near the centre of the inferior maxilla, which it thus powerfully depresses. Two small muscles, one on each side, con- tribute to the same effect. These are attached in front near the commissure of the lips, and running inwards, almost cross each other be- neath the preceding, which is azygos; there they are attached partly to the skin, and partly to the transverse cartilage. Those muscles which raise the lower jaw act likewise upon the upper. One attached to its lateral part mounts over the upper jaw, as over a pulley, and runs to be implanted above the upper jaw, which is here moveable, into the base of the cranium. A second is broad and short. Its fibres are