750 NUTRITION. the ribs, for instance, a more or less distinct fibrous appearance may be frequently seen in the intercellular substance ; this is sometimes so faint, that it might be considered as an illusion, occasioned by the manipulation to which the section has been subjected ; but it is often so well-defined, as almost to present the appear- ance of the true fibrous structure. No indica- tion of the direct operation of cells in the developement of these fibres has ever been wit- nessed ; and we can scarcely do otherwise than regard them as produced by the regular ar- rangement and consolidation of the particles of the blastema or plastic element, in virtue of its own inherent powers. The production of the simple structureless membranes which exist in various parts of the body must be attributed, we think, to the con- solidation of a thin layer of blastema, rather than to any metamorphosis of cells. The basement or primary membrane which lies beneath the epithelium of the mucous and serous membranes, and of the glandular pro- longations of the former, as well as the mem- brane lining the bloodvessels, and bearing epithelium upon its inner surface, must pro- bably be regarded in this light. It may be questioned, however, whether this is not to be regarded, in most cases at least, as a transitional form, rather than as a permanent structure. We have reason to believe that in many situa- tions (as the lining of the alimentary canal and of its glandular prolongations,) the nuclei con- tained in this membrane must be continually developing themselves into epithelium-cells ; and in some other instances it would seem, that a fibrous structure developes itself from it by a metamorphosis of a different kind. It is not difficult to imagine, that these variations may have their origin in the degree of plasticity of the element, of which the membrane was origin- ally composed, and in the number of cell-germs which it includes. Considerable differences in the appearance of this primary membrane may be seen, in examining the residua left after dis- solving away the calcareous matter of shells by dilute acid. Putting aside the cellular tissue which certain shells exhibit,* the most general animal basis of each layer is a very delicate membrane, which sometimes appears com- pletely homogeneous, even when viewed with the highest powers of the microscope; but which in other instances presents a distinctly granular aspect, as if it consisted of a layer of molecules consolidated together by a structure- less cement. These membranous films are in- cluded between strata of calcareous matter, poured out from the surface of the mantle, and thus undergo no change subsequent to their first production. We have next to consider the mode in which the tissues, whose form is distinctly cellular, or which can be clearly proved to originate in cells, derive their nutriment from the blood. In the early stage of embryonic developement," * See a paper by the author on the Microscopic Structure of Shell, in Annals of Natural History, December, 1843. as already stated, the whole fabric is composed of cells which present no recognizable differ- ences amongst themselves, and which yet, by a process of histological transformation, become the elements of the different organs,-—some of them still retaining the form of cells,—whilst others undergo changes which remove them altogether from that category. To the former class belong adipose tissue, pigment-cells, the various kinds of epithelium and epidermis, cartilage-cells, &C. Of the latter, the capillary bloodvessels, and the muscular and nervous tissues, are characteristic examples. Now there would seem much reason to believe, that in the regular process of nutrition, each of these tissues draws from the blood the materials necessary for its reparation and growth, as it does in the earlier stages for its first develope- ment ; and that the function of the blood is confined to the supply of these materials,—the germs of the new tissue being supplied by that previously existing. At any rate it may be safely affirmed that no evidence has been ad- duced which renders any other view probable. The self-nutrient power of the tissues is evinced by this fact among others,—that in no instance are their ultimate elements penetrated by the capillary bloodvessels. Thus although adipose tissue is traversed by a minute capillary net- work, the fat-cells lie in the meshes of this net- work, and are as independent of it, except as regards the supply of nutrient materials which they derive from it, as if they adhered closely to each other. The muscular fibres and nerve tubes, again, are not penetrated by capillary vessels, but are only surrounded by them. The connection of the cartilage-cells with the ves- sels is still more remote; for the true cellular cartilages are not penetrated by bloodvessels at all (in the healthy state at least), but are nourished by the imbibition of fluids from a plexus of dilated vessels that comes into rela- tion with their external surface. We may infer, therefore, that the bloodvessels are subservient to the act of nutrition only by conveying the nutrient fluid into the neighbourhood where it is required,—just as, in the irrigation of a mea- dow, the water is carried in channels over the general surface, but has to find its way by percolation into the spaces between these;—and that it is by the materials which they derive from it that the several tissues are enabled to maintain their integrity, by reproducing their structure as fast as it is disintegrated. And it may not be unreasonable to infer that, in the very act of the death and disintegration of the parent structure, the germs of the new struc- tures destined to replace it are set free, as hap- pens in the reproduction of the simple cellu- lar plants. It may be doubted, however, whether the same holds good in regard to newly-forming parts, or with respect to the epithelium cells, which are formed on the free surface of the basement membrane, and which are cast off without reproducing themselves. These last seem to originate in germs contained in the subjacent membrane, and a continual supply of such germs must therefore be required. It can