OPTIC NERVES. 762 OPTIC NERVES. Under this heading it is proposed to describe the special nerves of vision in man, for although other names are also employed by anatomists to denote the nerves in question, the above is preferred as being expressive of their functions. It should be borne in mind that the optic nerves are like- wise frequently called " the second pair;" a term derived from their numerical position on the base of the brain, as they are the second from before backwards on the under surface of the encephalon. The anatomy and physiology of the optic nerves in man constitute the more immediate subjects of the present article, but as these would be imperfectly treated without the aid of comparative anatomy, the reader will find in the following pages frequent references to the condition of the nerves of vision in other animals also. Descriptive anatomy. Apparent origin.'—The optic nerves com- mence by two broad medullary tracts (the tractus optici), each of which becomes first apparent at the under surface of the corres- ponding optic thalamus. Tractus opticus.—This appears to derive its principal origin from the corpus geniculatum externum : from that tubercle a narrow band arises which is soon reinforced by another (not in general equally large or distinct,) from the corpus geniculatum internum, and by the junction of the two the tractus opticus is formed: thus constituted, the tractus opticus takes a course forward and inward around the outer and inferior surface of the crus cerebri: it is at first deeply concealed from view in the great cerebral fissure, being overlapped from without by the middle lobe of the cerebrum, so as to be invisible until a portion of the brain, together with the arachnoid membrane and pia mater, have been displaced. Emerging from under cover of the middle lobe, the tractus next gains the front of the crus, runs along the margin of the tuber cinereum, and at length unites with the other tractus opticus to form the chiasma. At the crus cerebri the tractus opticus in- creases in breadth, and of its two edges the anterior or external is here the thicker, while in the vicinity of the chiasma the tractus loses its flattened appearance, and becomes nearly cylin- drical. The tractus opticus is soft in texture through- out, being devoid of the tough neurilemma from which the proper optic nerve derives its uncom- mon firmness. The tractus opticus receives a very extensive investment from the pia mater, which covers and adheres to all its free surface : anteriorly, where the tractus is approaching the chiasma, nearly two-thirds of its circumference are clothed by pia mater; and further back, that membrane even insinuates itself a short distance between the posterior or inner margin of the tractus, and the adjacent surface of the crus cerebri. The arachnoid has a far less extensive relation to the tractus opticus : in the early part of its course the tractus has no serous covering, but in the interval between the middle lobe of the brain and the chiasma, the arachnoid passes beneath the tractus opticus, and so affords it a partial investment. The anterior or external margin of the tractus opticus is so closely connected to the crus cerebri that in attempts to separate them the medullary substance is torn, and consequently some anatomists are of opinion that the crus furnishes filaments of origin to the tractus ; but the posterior or inner edge of the tractus is not identified with the crus, for there the two structures can be separated without any violence to either. 'The third and fourth nerves, before reaching the cavernous sinus, cross underneath the tractus opticus, but not immediately, for the serous and vascular membranes of the brain, and in general the edge of the middle cerebral lobe are interposed; the posterior communicating artery passes also across the traclus inferiorly, and the artery of the choroid plexus, in its course to the great cerebral fissure, runs be- neath it, the pia mater alone intervening between these bloodvessels and the tractus opticus. The chiasma is somewhat quadrilateral, and receives by each posterior angle the cor- responding tractus opticus, while its anterior angles are prolonged respectively into either optic nerve; when " in situ," it is supported by a transverse groove of the sphenoid bone in front of the sella Turcica. Posteriorly, it is identified with the tuber cinereum, and to its upper surface the peculiar greyish membrane which closes up the third ventricle is adherent. The chiasma has complex relations to blood- vessels ; behind and below this body the ante- rior portion of the coronary sinus is situated ; external to the chiasma the termination of the internal carotid artery is placed, and in front of it are the anterior communicating, and a part of the anterior arteries of the cerebrum. Optic nerve ■ proper.—This proceeds from the chiasma, and after passing through the foramen opticum into the orbit, and arriving at the eye-ball, it perforates the sclerotic and choroid coats, and terminates in the retina. First stage.—In the short interval between the chiasma and the optic foramen, the optic nerve is directed forward and outward ; its size is perceptibly greater than that of the tractus opticus : it is not perfectly cylindrical in shape, being slightly flattened above and below; it is covered immediately by a dense tough neuri- lemma, and provided besides with a distinct sheath of arachnoid membrane, which, after accompanying the nerve fairly into the hole in the sphenoid bone, becomes reflected on the process of dura mater lining that aperture. Shortly after its commencement the optic nerve is separated from the olfactory by the anterior artery of the cerebrum. The ophthalmic artery leaves the cranium by the foramen opticum also, and lies beneath the optic nerve and to its outer side, being there enveloped in a special sheath of fibrous membrane. Second stage—Having entered the orbit, the optic nerve inclines more directly forwards; in consequence of this change of direction it