960 PISCES. the muscles and other soft parts of this region of the head. The Triglae or Gurnards offer the best ex- amples of the " hard-cheeked Acanthopterygii," which owe their name to the following arrange- ment of the above mentioned osseous pieces. The first suborbitals are of enormous size, en- tirely covering the face, articulating in front with the bones of the snout, and posteriorly with the preoperculum and two smaller suborbitals placed Skeleton of Trigla lyra, showing the bones of the face fin rays. at the posterior angle of the orbit. Its articu- lation with the preoperculum is accomplished by means of an immoveable suture, so that the suborbital bones and the preoperculum must move together. The upper part of the face, moreover, is formed by the immoveable con- solidation of the anterior frontals with the an- terior extremity of the prsenasal bones, which expand into a disc, and in some instances of the vomer likewise, which is slightly visible beneath the skin between the ossa nasi. All these bony pieces, as well as those composing the upper portion of the cranium, are hard, granular, and often armed with spines and Fig. 493. cutting edges, so that few Fishes have their heads so well defended against the attacks of their foes. The Pleuronectida, or Flat-fishes as they are commonly called, offer a most remarkable ex- ception to the usual arrangement of the bones of the face, which exhibits a want of symmetry unparalleled in any other vertebrate animals. In this family, which includes the Turbot, the Plaice, the Sole, and others similarly organized, the whole trunk of the body is so much com- pressed laterally that such fishes, instead of swimming in the usual position, lie upon their left sides —a circumstance which, added to the singular fact that the right side is equally coloured both up- on the dorsal and ventral regions, while the opposite is entirely white, has given rise to the vul- gar supposition that the white surface is the ventral and the co- loured the dorsal region of the fish —an error of which the anatomist is immediately made aware by a simple inspection of the skeleton (fig.493). But in the construction of the head, by a strange apparent distortion of the elements com- posing the face and cranium, both eyes are allowed to be situated , , , upon the right or upper surface of and the pectoral ^ bof,y_ Thig rei^rkab,e ^ is entirely due to the suppres- sion of those processes and bones on the left side of the head which normally constitute the orbital cavity, whilst on the right side they are permitted to attain a very complete develope- ment. The principal frontal bone (Jigs. 436, 437, 1, vol. iii. p. 826-7), which in all Fishes is azygos, occupies its usual situation, but whilst on the left side it is flat and bounded by a nearly straight margin, on the right side of the mesial line it presents as usual the processes which form the roof and posterior boundary of the orbit. The outer margin of the orbital cavity is formed by one large bony piece, the representative of the sub-orbital chain of bones, (Jig. 436, g g g) Skeleton of the Sole.