7C0 (ESOPHAGUS. liarly called heartburn; and in pyrosis, or water- brash, the amount of liquid which suddenly enters the mouth is often very considerable. This inverted action of the oesophagus admits of a ready explanation. By the contraction of the muscular fibres of the stomach a portion of liquid is expelled into the lower extremity of the oesophagus; here it immediately excites contraction of the muscular fibres which sur- round it, and being prevented from again en- tering the stomach by the momentary continu- ance of the same effort which has expelled it into the oesophagus, it must necessarily pass into the relaxed portion of the tube immedi- ately above; and thus, by the contraction of successive portions of the tube, the liquid soon leaches the pharynx. In ruminants, the greater portion of the food is returned from the sto- mach to the mouth by this inverted action of the oesophagus. During the action of vomiting- there is an inverted action of the oesophagus in addition to the propulsive effort arising from the contraction of the stomach and abdominal muscles. We have now to point out the precise mode in which these contractions are induced, to explain the intermediate links between the ap- plication of a stimulus to the mucous mem- brane and the occurrence of the muscular con- traction. In the first place, unless we swallow a very large or a very hot morsel of food, no sensation attends its passage along the oeso- phagus. After the food has passed that portion of the pharynx upon which the glossopha- ryngeal nerve is distributed, we cease to be con- scious of its presence; and again, when a bitter liquid is eructated from the stomach, it pro- duces no sensation of taste until it reaches the same point. As the passage of food along the oesophagus is unattended by sensation, so is it uninfluenced by volition. We cannot by any effort of the will perform the action of deglu- tition unless we bring a portion of food, or a liquid (as the saliva), into contact with the pha- rynx, by means of which the action of the parts may be excited. Again, no effort of the will can arrest the process of deglutition after the food has entered the oesophagus, and if a liquid be made to pass into the pharynx of a person in whom the exercise of volition is suspended by a fit of apoplexy, deglutition is performed in a manner almost as perfect as by a person in health. An apparent exception to the general rule that the movements of the oesophagus are beyond the control of the will is afforded by the very rare examples of persons possessing the power of rumination. A voluntary power over the oesophagus,however, appears by no means neces- sary to account for this. It probably depends on the possession of an unusual degree of vo- luntary power over the movements of the sto- mach, and especially of its cardiac orifice, by means of which the contents of the stomach can be expelled at will into the inferior extre- mity of the oesophagus, and thus are brought within the influence of its involuntary move- ments. Any one may satisfy himself that he possesses some degree of voluntary power over the cardiac orifice of the stomach, if after swallowing a bottle of soda water he will direct attention to the power which he pos- sesses of preventing the sudden escape of gas from the stomach, and, on the contrary, of increasing the propulsive effort probably by contracting the abdominal muscles. It is pro- bable that many persons might by practice acquire the power of rumination. Since the contractions of the oesophagus cannot be ex- cited by volition, are they dependent on the direct stimulus of the muscular fibres by con- tact of the food, independently of the nerves and of the nervous centres? That this is not the case is proved by an experiment performed by Dr. J. Keid.* He divided in a rabbit the vagus nerve on each side above the oesophageal plexus, but below the pharyngeal branches. The animal received the food which was offered to it, and by a propulsive effort of the tongue and pharynx transmitted it to the oesophagus, which, having lost all power of contraction, remained passive, and became at length com- pletely distended and choked up by the mate- rials thrust into it from above. It is evident then that the oesophagus loses its power of contraction if we cut off its communication with the nervous centres. As we have before seen that the will is not the agent which deter- mines the contractions of the oesophagus, there remains but one explanation of these movements, which is, that they belong to the class of reflex actions. An impression made upon the mucous membrane of the oesophagus is communicated by the afferent nerves to the medulla oblon- gata, and thence an influence, the precise na- ture of which we are ignorant of, is reflected along the efferent nerves to the muscular fibres of the part to which the stimulus was applied. The only parts of this circle of actions which we recognise by our senses are the application of the stimulus and the occurrence of the mus- cular contraction; but these are doubtless con- nected in the manner above mentioned. The oesophagus receives both its excitor and its motor nerves from the pneumo-gastric ; it thus derives its nervous influence from that portion of the nervous centre, namely, the medulla oblongata, which is the centre of the respiratory movements. Hence it will be seen that when in any case of disease of the nervous centres deglutition becomes seriously impaired, there is much reason to fear that the moreimportantfunc- tion of respiration will soon become involved. Abnormal anatomy.—The oesophagus may de- viate from the normal state in form or in struc- ture. In some cases malformation may exist without obvious change of structure, but it is more common to find them combined. Mal- formation of the oesophagus may be either con- genital or acquired. Congenital malformation. — It sometimes happens that the oesophagus is congenitally deficient, terminating above in a cul-de-sac, the inferior extremity of the pharynx also ter- minating in the same manner. This is usually associated with an imperfect developement of the oral cavity and of the lower jaw, the latter * See the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal.