798 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. lated and uneoagulated state. When coagulated, the separation of fibrin and albumen cannot be effected by any means with which we are ac- quainted, and, indeed, the first authorities differ when they attempt to decide which of the two they have to deal with, if they occur in the coagulated state. When uncoagulated, their separation and quantitative determination may be effected with considerable accuracy. Pure fibrin, when moist, is white and some- what elastic, is insoluble in water, alcohol, or ether. It is readily taken up by strong acetic acid, and from this solution it is precipitated by ferrocyanide of potassium (prussiate of pot- ash) ; fibrin also dissolves in solution of pot- ash ; if, when thus dissolved, it be heated gently and the liquid neutralized by an acid, a white flocculent precipitate occurs, which redissolves in excess of acid, and the solution emits an odour of sulphuretted hydrogen. Strong nitric acid turns fibrin yellow, forming a yellow so- lution with gradual evolution of gas; in con- centrated hydrochloric acid it slowly dissolves with a rich violet colour. These are properties it possesses in common with albumen and ca- sein ; but it is distinguished from them and from all other animal matters by its sponta- neous coagulation when removed from the living body. This furnishes us with a certain test of its presence when in the liquid form, and enables us to separate it in good degree from other bodies ; within its pores, however, is ob- stinately retained a quantity of the fluid from which it has just separated itself, together with most of the globules and particles suspended in the secretion. It becomes necessary, there- fore, to wash out these ingredients, an opera- tion rendered possible by the insolubility of the fibrin in cold water. The coagulum from a known quantity of fluid is cut into very thin shreds by a sharp knife, tied in a piece of linen, and a gentle stream of water allowed to fall upon it; from time to time the clot is gently kneaded and the washing continued; in the case of blood, till all traces of colouring matter are removed, or, where no colour is present, so long as may be deemed necessary ; the residue is then removed from the linen, dried, digested in eiher to remove adhering fatty matters, again dried and weighed. A portion is then incinerated, the weight of the fixed matters determined and deducted from the gross weight of the dried fibrin, by which we obtain that of the organic matter.*' Fatty matters.—Several peculiar oily sub- stances occur in the fluids and solids of the animal body. Among the saponifiable fats chemists have distinctly ascertained the pre- sence of margarin, elain, and butyrin ; besides these we have cholesterin and serolin, which are not saponifiable by boiling in alkaline solu- tions, and there are others containing phos- phorus and sulphur, but their composition and properties are yet involved in uncertainty. Our * It has been objected that the insoluble nuclei of the red particles are retained in this process. It is, however, superior, both in the accuracy of its results and the facility of its performance, to any other method hitherto proposed as its substitute. analytical processes for separating these bodies are very imperfect; the fats are all soluble in boiling alcohol, and still more freely in ether. Cholesterin and serolin may be isolated from the other fats by boiling the residue, after eva- poration of the ether, with solution of caustic potash, as they remain undissolved by this menstruum, whilst the margarin, elain, and butyrin form soaps which are dissolved by the water. Serolin is an azotised fat, which has hitherto only been found in the blood ; it is readily dis- tinguished from cholesterin by its fusing point being much lower, 97° F., whereas cholesterin does not melt below 278°, and is found in the blood only in minute quantity. By pressing them between folds of filtering paper we might therefore, if careful to maintain a temperature near that of boiling water, effect a tolerably complete separation of these bodies. Butyrin rapidly absorbs oxygen from the air, setting free a volatile acid, the butyric; it possesses the peculiar odour of rancid butter, by which its presence is always easily recog- nized. In analytical inquiries it is best to separate fatty matters by ether as the first step after the liquid has been evaporated to dryness; we may then safely proceed to determine the Albumen.—In chemical properties it differs little from fibrin, excepting in the fact of its requiring heat or some chemical agent to pro- duce coagulation; towards reagents it com- ports itself in the same way. When liquid, its separation from fibrin and fats is effected as just described. The residue, after the fats have been removed by ether, is di- gested in boiling water, and the residue well washed ; the albumen remains upon the filter, and must be dried and weighed. A given quantity is incinerated to determine the pro- portion of saline matters, which must be de- ducted from the weight previously found. If uric acid existed in the solution, it would be mixed with the albumen. In case the colour- ing matter of the blood were contained in the fluid, a small part would remain mixed with the albumen, and might be removed by di- gestion in alcohol acidulated with sulphuric acid, by which the hsematosin is dissolved; the greater part, however, subsides by allowing the liquid to stand undisturbed in a tall vessel for forty-eight hours. If the solution contain free alkali, a part of the albumen is redissolved on the addition of water; when, therefore, the filtered liquid presents an alkaline reaction, it should be very carefully and exactly neutralized by acetic acid, evaporated to dryness, and again treated with hot water; the weight of this second poition of albumen must be added to that first obtained. Casein hardly ever occurs in the same solution with albumen; if present, it would be separated by the acetic acid in the manner already described. Casein is distinguished from albumen by its non-coagulability by heat; when its solutions are evaporated at a high temperature, an inso- luble skin or film forms upon the surface, which is almost characteristic, the only thing