15 INSTINCT. this provision of nature has been fully elucidated by the observations of Reaumur and many others as to the efficacy of artificial heat in procuring the development of the chick. 5. The instincts of many parent animals are likewise the means adopted by nature for pro- curing nourishment for the young. This is observed as to those of the lower orders whose young are brought forth in circumstances ren- dering it impossible for them to procure their own food (as the bee and wasp), and also as to the carnivorous tribes, both of birds and quad- rupeds ; the exertion requisite for procuring their prey being beyond the power of the young animal, the instinct of the parent supplies the defect. In most cases fresh supplies of food are daily or even hourly brought to the young animals, but in some instances stores of nou- rishment are provided for the young of the higher animals, equally as for those of the bee or ant; the pelican brings a large supply in his pouch from a single fishing; and according to the observations of an author in the Magazine of Natural History, some of the carnivorous animals have the curious instinct of storing up with this view animals not dead, but stupified by injury of the brain. " I dug out," says he, " five young pole-cats, comfortably imbedded in dry withered grass; and in a side hole, of proper dimensions for such a larder, I poked out forty large frogs and two toads, all alive, but merely capable of sprawling a little. On examination 1 found that the whole number, toads and all, had been purposely and dex- trously bitten through the brain."* Lastly, the young of all warm-blooded animals being unable for some time after they come into the world to maintain their own temperature, would soon perish of cold, even if capable of procuring their own food, but for the protection they receive from their parents. This seems to be the most general final cause of the o-Togyri or maternal affection so strongly implanted in all these animals, and to which so much of the first period of the existence of their offspring is intrusted, but of which there is little trace in the lower tribes. As, however, the dangers to which these young animals are exposed are numerous and varied, so nature has provided against them, not by a propensity to the performance of one kind of action only, bat by a vigilant and permanent feeling which controls all the habits of the parent animal, and prompts many actions, some of which are strictly instinctive, while others ought rather to be called voluntary, but are quite at variance with the ordinary habits of the animals. Eveiy one must be aware of the increased ferocity given to the female carnivo- rous animals during the time that they are occupied with the care of their young, and of the resolution with which birds, at other seasons pacific and even timid, will resent any intrusion on their nests or young broods; of the provi- dent care of the cat or the lioness, which carries her young in her mouth, and of almost all fe- male warm-blooded animals, which gather them * Magazine, &c. vol. vi. p. 20ti. close to their bodies for protection from cold; of the anxiety of the hen which has sat on duck's eggs, when the ducklings take to the water; of the resolution and ingenuity with which the lapwing fixes on herself the attention of passengers who may come near her nest, &c. But what most distinctly indicates that all this care and anxiety are unconnected with any such anticipation of the results as would be acquired by a process of reasoning, is the absolute indif- ference which succeeds, when the parent animal at length sees her offspring independent of her assistance— " And once rejoicing, never knows them more." III. Various instinctive propensities may be observed in animals, the object of which is the advantage of the race or of the animal creation generally, rather than of the individual or his progeny, and some the object of which is still obscure. Some of these are, like the maternal affection last mentioned, obviously partaken by the human race, or even chiefly perceptible in those animals which have much con- nexion with man. The instinctive attachments not only of dogs but various domestic animals to their masters or attendants, of cats to houses, of sheep to particular hills or pastures, might be illustrated by many curious anecdotes, and seem to be very similar to the feelings which, after being fully developed in the human race, and strengthened and extended by the reflective powers of the human mind, obtain the names of family affection, of local attachment, of patriotism, ike. If the instinct of modesty exists in hardly any animals, the desire of clean- liness may be observed in many. The instinct of imitation, formerly noticed, and which is of so essential importance to all human enterprises in which the cooperation of numbers is re- quired, is perhaps more distinctly observable in individual monkeys than in any other ani- mals, although it is probable that a similar feeling may be part of the bond of association by which many animals are congregated toge- ther in the mode to be presently noticed. The intuitive perception of the signs of emotion or passion in the countenance and gestures which precedes and excites the tendency to imitation in man, is obviously common to us with many other animals. In fact, although we rigidly maintain the essential superiority of the intellect of man over that of all other animals, we have already stated that the greater number of the active powers of the human mind which furnish the chief motives to action are on the same fooling with those which operate on the lower animals. Not only are our appetites similar to theirs, but the greater number of the desires of which we are conscious are either shared with us by them, or at least would seem to belong to the same class as their instincts. Thus the desire of approbation is quite obvious at least in some of the domestic animals, and the desire of society, as observed by Stewart, seems to act very generally, although variously, in the ani- mal creation. The desire of power may be thought to be more peculiar to man, and we