MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 491 intestinal villi,) and their sides tend to assume the direction of radii from a common centre. Hence they are sometimes even triangular in outline. Their opposite or free extremity is much thicker, often as thick as the part bulged by the nucleus, and near this extremity neigh- bouring particles are generally very intimately attached to one another, having often the ap- pearance of being blended into a single mass. The best example of this is on the villi of the small intestine (Jig. 280). The contiguous par- ticles, however, are fitted closely together in the greater portion of their length, and to effect this the bulging nuclei vary in the height at which they are placed. There can be no doubt, that, in certain situations at least, as will be afterwards shown, these particles are being con- tinually shed, and consequently are being per- petually renovated. But it is very difficult to ascertain their early condition and changes, and I am not aware of any satisfactory observations having been made for this end. From the great facility with which they become detached from the surface they invest, it is next to im- possible to examine them in situ on thin verti- ng. 280. Fig. 282. Villus of the intestinum ilium of the Dog, tvith the epithelium partially detached. a a, solitary particles remaining attached ; b, club- shaped extremity of the villus from which the epithelium has been detached ; c c, epithelium at its base. Magnified 150 diameters. d, detached particles, shewing their close union, especially at the surface (at the letter) ; e, other detached particles, shewing their various shape, their nuclei and nucleoli. The letter is placed at their free extremity. Magnified 350 diameters. Fig. 281. a, ciliated epithelial particle from the inner surface of the membrana tym- pani of the human subject; b, cili- ated epithelial particles from the bronchial mucous membrane of the human subject. All these shew the nuclei and nucleoli. Magnified 300 diameters. Epithelial particles from the cornu uteri of the Cow. The opposite cornu contained a foetus one inch and a half long. a, small particle, apparently in an early stage of development. The nucleus is smaller than in the other specimens ; b, another more advanced—the nucleus and surrounding substance are both larger, especially the latter, which presents a fine granular texture ; c, a particle made angular by pressure against others. It presents two nuclei, as though formed by fission ; d, another of a dif- ferent shape ; e, detached nucleus, showing its transparency and clear outline ; also two excen- tric dots, the nucleoli. Magnified 300 diameters. cal sections. But there is no reason for sup- posing their mode of growth to be originally different from that of the scaly variety- Their nuclei probably appear first on the surface of the basement membrane, and around these a cell is developed (fig- 280, a). But this cell from its earliest period seems to contain an amorphous substance, which under high micro- scopic powers looks finely mottled, but not so definitely so as to allow of being called granu- lar. As the particle advances towards its full size, it loses its cell-membrane, and when com- plete is to be regarded rather as a solid mass of organic substance, surrounding a nucleus, than as a cell. Here, then, is a striking difference between the scale and the prism: maturity being marked in the one by the disappearance of the substance of the cell; in the other, by that of the cell-membrane. Of the spheroidal variety (see Jigs. 273 to 277).—In this the particles are of a rounded Fig. 283. Three epithelial particles from the human liver. nucleus ; b, nucleolus ; c, fatty particle. Magnified 300 diameters, form, though generally somewhat flattened where they touch. They are always thick, from the substance they contain. It is this variety that constitutes the chief mass of the secreting glands, and hence it might not impro- perly be styled glandular. It corresponds with the prismatic variety, in its usually constitu- ting in the glands a single layer, and in the predominance, from the first, of its substance over its membrane. In the glands, indeed, the membrane can seldom be discerned at all, and the substance surrounding the nucleus, though more bulky, has the same finely mottled cha- racter already noticed in the prisms. In other situations the cell-membrane is persistent, but even then it never flattens into a scale. This variety presents in the different glands nume- rous modifications, which have not yet been studied with the accuracy they merit. It is