MICROSCOPE. 347 be found much superior to any form of knives for cutting through delicate tissues without disturbing them. Swammerdam is said to have made great use of such implements, in his dissections of insect structures, which, from the accounts of them on record, seem almost to have surpassed any which have been since executed. The curved forceps recom- mended by Mr. Slack, we also have used with much advantage. For more minute dissection we can strongly recommend common needles, and cutting implements which may be easily manufactured from them, by grinding down their sides upon a hone. These may either be fixed in wooden handles, or, which is much better, held in little instruments resembling crayon-holders, specially constructed for their reception. The dissector is thus enabled to give to his needle the effect of a long elastic point or of a short stiff one, by simply altering the part at which it is held. In the ivory handles of these holders, also, there is a receptacle for the needles, which makes the whole of this useful little apparatus complete in itself.* Many microscopists, especially on the conti- nent, are in the habit of making great use of the compressorium, an instrument in which an ob- ject may be submitted to graduated pressure between two plates of glass, the parallelism of which is perfectly maintained. The results obtained by such compression, however, must be accepted with great caution, and need to be corrected by those views of the object which are gained without that distortion of it to which it is liable in this method. The class of inves- tigations in which the compressorium is most valuable, is that m which such structures as the minute ovum need to be closely scrutinized, without any further change in their shape than may render their contents more distinctly visi- ble. For such purposes we believe that a steady hand and a well-made aquatic box will answer the purpose sufficiently; but to those who prefer relying on mechanical assistance, the compressorium will be a useful instru- ment. We shall now proceed to describe some of the modes of mounting and arranging simple and compound microscopes, which appear to us most convenient. The first that we shall notice is a form which has cheapness and sim- plicity to recommend it, and which, if well made, is capable of an adjustment sufficiently delicate for all ordinary purposes. It is a slight modification of one of Mr. Pritchard's.f A (Jig. 166) is the stand, or basis, into which the pillar is screwed. This may be variously constructed, according to the purpose for which it is designed. If hulk be an object, it may be a round disk of lead ; but if weight must be avoided, a thick tablet of mahogany about six inches square, or five inches by seven, (the longest side being in the direction of the movement of the pillar,) is preferable. If great * Such needle-holders are sold by Mr. Pritchard, Fleet-street, London. t Microscopic Illustrations, 2nd cd. p. 82. Fig. 166. Elevation of ordinary compound or simple microscope. A, base ; 13, hollow pillar, with joint at bot- tom; C, triangular rack; D, nut by which it is moved ; E, bar carrying compound body ; F, other end adapted for simple magniliers ; U, compound body ; H, objective ; I, spring fork ; M, mirror attached to sliding tube, tightened by the nut, N ; S, stage. portability be desired, the pillar may be made to screw into the top of the box that holds the apparatus; but this plan should not be adopted, unless all the smaller fittings be contained in a tray which may be lifted out, in order that there may be no necessity for opening the box when the instrument is in use. The pillar is a thick tube of brass about six inches long, with a large screw at the bottom for being attached to the stand, and a joint above this, for allow- ing it to be inclined at any angle. If this joint be well constructed, the instrument will remain in any position in which it is placed, without any steadying rod or perceptible vibration. Within the tube is a triangular bar, with a rack cut on its posterior edge ; this may be raised or depressed from the top of the tube, by turn- ing the milled head, which carries a pinion working into the rack. Particular attention