119 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. ference to its commencement or the early pe- riods of its progress, but to its effects or pro- ducts, which, exhibiting various forms of de- rangement and disorganization, shew to the morbid anatomist the length of time the work of destruction must have been in operation, and the extraordinary changes of shape and form and structure that may occasionally be endured consistently with the maintenance of a miserable existence. The simplest form of altered structure in the mucous membrane that I am aware of is that effected by a slow but progressive deposit (pro- bably of lymph) within its substance, which renders it firmer, thicker, and more solid ; and although this must occasion inconvenience and difficulty of respiration to a certain extent, and is troublesome from the dry cough and occa- sional spasmodic exacerbations that accompany it, yet perhaps, whilst restricted to this stage, it is seldom perilous to life. But these altera- tions of structure, particularly if neglected, are seldom quiescent, and however slow in their progress have a tendency to move forward either to a morbid or perhaps malignant change of the tissues, or to the partial removal of these by the process of ulceration. Thus, ulcers of the larynx, however heretofore overlooked by pathologists, are now found to be extremely common, and I know of nothing more diffi- cult than to subject the numerous varieties of them to any form of classification. They cannot be arranged according to structure, for they are very seldom so superficial or so insulated as to engage the mucous membrane alone; neither can they be classed according to the symptoms they occasion, for the suffering of the patient or even his ultimate danger does not seem entirely to depend on their extent or character. The most practically useful division of these ulcers would be as to their exciting cause if it could always be discovered; yet even here there is so much uncertainty of symptom during life and such diversity of appearance after death as to render the subject obscure and unsatisfactory. In some instances the larynx becomes the seat of idiopathic ulceration, that is, the dis- ease seems to have been occasioned by cold or other causes of local irritation—at least such is the only explanation to be offered. " Thus the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis and the in- ternal parts of the organ itself may be studded over with numerous minute aphthous ulcera- tions ; sometimes the edges are marked by a yellow line of superficial excoriation, bordered by a deep blush of inflammation; and in these cases I have always observed, during life, that great pain and difficulty of deglutition accom- panied the symptoms of dyspnoea, and often formed the most prominent feature of the case. Occasionally the ulceration is deep and foul, and spreads with an almost phagedenic de- structiveness: these sporadic sores, usually commencing above, either in the soft palate or the back of the pharynx and spreading down- wards, too often involve the destruction of the patient. Occurring as they constantly do in bad and cachectic habits, they are little under the control of medicine, and operation, how- ever it may prolong existence, scarcely holds out a hope of ultimate recovery." In other cases the ulceration seems to be sympathetic, and either precedes or follows certain affections of the lung. Thus in cases of tubercular consumption, aphonia is often a very distressing symptom, sometimes accom- panied by difficult respiration, and occasionally by painful deglutition. In these instances not only is the larynx studded over with specks of ulceration, but the trachea and bronchial tubes leading to the cavity in the lung present a similar appearance, as if the matter possessed some corrosive quality and its passage over the mucous membrane became the cause of its ulceration. These appearances have been too frequently observed not to have attracted the notice of the morbid anatomist, but still it is extremely difficult to connect them with dis- ease of the lung in the relation of cause and effect, for sometimes the loss or imperfection of voice precedes or at least is amongst the earliest symptoms of consumption, and in other instances it only becomes manifest in the very latest stages. It is easy to conceive that the presence of an ulcer in the larynx, by pro- ducing difficult breathing and occasioning a diminution of the supply of air, may deter- mine the development of an abscess in a scro- fulous lung already well disposed to such dis- ease; but when the ulceration has occurred at a late period, and the difficulty of swallowing, the aphonia, and stridulous breathing appear among the closing symptoms of consumption, it will be difficult to account for the appear- ances observed, unless by supposing them to be sympathetically produced. But of all the causes from which ulcerations of the larynx are known to proceed, some specific or constitutional taint seems to be the most influential, such as syphilis, scrofula, mer- cury, or a combination of two or more of these. As far as my own observation extends, I cannot say I have ever seen the larynx engaged in a case of venereal where no mercury had been used, but on the other hand there is scarcely any organ more likely to be attacked where the me- dicine has been imperfectly or improperly used, or in which the attack is more perilous and unmanageable. Sometimes the larynx becomes ulcerated in consequence of phagedena or other destructive form of the disease spreading down- wards from the throat or fauces, but more fre- quently is it engaged alone. The ulcers here are seldom solitary, but present several spots of ulceration, and in some cases are so extensive that the whole configuration of the organ is spoiled and lost, the epiglottis being partially or entirely removed, and the chordae vocales and ventricles carried away. The surface of this extensive ulceration is irregular, warty, and gives the appearance of uneven granulation, and there are chaps and fissures that pass deeply into the substance of the subjacent car- tilage, portions of which are removed. When the ulcers are more superficial they very often exhibit the herpetic appearance and the ten- dency to spread observed in mercurial sores,