897 PAR VAGUM. however, the respiration has been suspended for a longer time and venous blood begins to circulate along the arteries, the other excitants of the besoin de respirer come into operation. Brachet,* Krimer,f and Longet,| have from their experiments arrived at the conclusion that the sensations occasioned by irritation of the inner surface of the trachea and bronchial tubes, and which usually precede coughing, are anni- hilated by dividing the vagi. We have made repeated experiments on this point, and though we could not satisfy ourselves that these sensa- tions were affected to the extent maintained by these authors, we believe that they are at least blunted. To what extent do the filaments- af the vagi act as incident nerves'!—It has been proved by the experiments of Legallois,§ Flourehs,|| and others, that all ihe respiratory and muscular movements cease on destroying the medulla oblongata, though the other parts of the ence- phalon situated above this may be injured in various ways without necessarily producing this effect. It is further well known that if the spinal chord be cut across, all the respiratory muscles are paralysed which receive their nerves from that portion of it below the point where it was divided, while those muscles which receive their nerves from that portion of the spinal chord still continuous with the me- dulla oblongata perform their usual functions. From these and other facts it may be consi- dered as ascertained that all impressions made at the lungs and elsewhere capable of causing respiratory movements, must be conveyed to the medulla oblongata before they can produce any reflex excitation of the muscles of respira- tion. That the vagi can convey these impres- sions from the lungs is not only rendered pro- bable from their attachment to the medulla oblongata, but may almost be considered as proved by the result of the experiments upon the spinal chord to which we have just referred. It, however, by no means follows that the vagi are the sole excitant nerves of respiration. It has been fully ascertained by numerous expe- rimenters, more especially by those who have investigated the functions of this nerve from the time of Legallois, that an animal will continue to breathe after the division of both vagi in the neck, if care be taken to secure the ingress and egress of air to and from the lungs. It is now well known, as we have already had occasion to point out in examining the functions of the laryngeal branches, that if the vagi be injured above the origin of the recurrent laryngeals, none of the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages can any longer act in unison with the muscles of respiration, all their movements cease, and the superior aperture of the larynx can no longer be dilated during inspiration. If the larynx be large, and the animal refrain * Oper. cit. p. 157-3-9. t lintersuchungen iiber den H us ten, as quoted by M'uller. | Oper. cit. torn. ii. p. 289. $ Sur le Principe de la Vie. [| Recherches jixperimentales sur les Propriptes et les Fonctions du Systeme Nerveux, &c. Paris, 1824. vol. III. from any violent effort, an adequate quantity of air may still find its way to the lungs, and the respirations are at first performed with ease. If, on the other hand, the larynx be small, its superior aperture may be mechanically closed and the animal may be immediately suffocated, or the air may still pass through the larynx but in diminished quantity, and the animal may labour under dypsncea from the moment the nerves are divided, up to its death. Even when means are taken to secure the free entrance of air into the lungs, an immediate and marked diminution in the frequency of the respiratory movements follows the division of both vagi in the neck. A. G. F. Emmert concluded, but apparently more upon theoretical grounds than from any direct observations made in the two experiments he had at that time performed on rabbits, that after lesion of the vagi the respira- tions become less frequent and prolonged.*" Mayer reckoned the number of respirations, both before and at various periods after section of these nerves in five experiments upon the ass, dog, and rabbit, and found a very marked diminution in their frequency after dividing the nerves.f Mr. Broughton mentions, that in a horse in which the vagi were divided " the respirations became slow, twelve in a minute;" and in another horse " the respirations fell to five in the minute."\ At what period after the division of the nerves these last observai s were made, and what was the number of the respirations previous to the commencement of the experiments, we are not informed. Sir Astley Cooper has given the result of two expe- riments upon rabbits whicJ ell illustrate the effect of the division of the cagi upon the respi- ratory movements.§ In our experiments we ascertained that the diminution in the frequency of the respiratory movements, generally to less than half of their former number, is an imme- diate effectof thedivisionof both vagi. The respi- ratory movements seem to be performed more slowly, and, generally, even from the first, in a somewhat heaving manner.|| Arnold in his expe- riments upon hens also observed a very consi- derable diminution in the frequency of the re- spiratory movements.^ Brachet has asserted** that an animal continues to breathe after sec- tion of the vagi, because it has acquired the habit of using the respiratory muscles. Dr. Marshall Hall has maintained that after the vagi are divided the respiratory movements are no longer a function of the excito-motory but of the cerebral portion of the nervous system ;ff * Archiv. fur Physiologie von Reil und Auten- rieih, Neunter Band. 1809, s. 417. t Tiedemann's Zeitschrift fur Physiologic, Zweiter Band, 1826, s. 77. | Quarterly Journal of Literature, Science, &c. vol. x., p. 305 and 307. § Guy's Hospital Reports, No. 3, Sept. 1836, p. '409. || Transactions of British Scientific Association for 1838, and Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal for 1839, vol 51. If Beincrkungen iiber den Ban des Hirns und R'uckenmarks, &c. s. 148. Zurich, 1838. ** Oper. cit. p. 132. tt Philosophical Magazine for Jan. 1835. Lec- 3 M