MOTION. 452 those of the posterior; this tends to throw the centre of gravity a little in advance of the middle of the quadrilateral figure described by the four legs of the quadruped on the plane of position. Although the bones of the posterior extre- mities are inclined to each other at a greater obliquity than those of the anterior, they have the calcaneum projecting considerably beyond the axis of the calcaneotibial articulation, so that, acting with the advantage of a powerful le- ver, the waste of muscular force is diminished,and the disadvantage arising from their obliquity is partially compensated. The time and order in which the legs of quadrupeds succeed each other in motion determine the paces deno- minated the walk, the trot, the gallop, the amble, and the leap, or bound. In order to illustrate many of the general principles on which the progression of qua- drupeds is effected, we shall select the horse as an example. In standing, the animal rests its trunk on the legs which form the four columns of support. Let us suppose the legs to be placed on the ground at A B E D (Jig. 245): if these points be joined, they form a rectangular parallelogram. When the animal walks slowly with his right side in advance, the left hind leg moves first; the right fore leg second ; the right hind leg third; and the left fore leg fourth. During these four successive motions, the centre of gravity is propelled forwards over a space equal to the length of one step. Let us now investi- gate what takes place during these successive motions. The hind foot having been pre- viously extended, and having urged the centre of gravity forward, is first moved; it is then flexed, lifted from the ground, and advanced from E to e. Whilst the leg E is in the act of advancing to e, the trunk is supported on three legs, A B D, thus having the base of support transferred from the plane of a rec- tangular parallellogram to that of a right-angled triangle. In this movement, the centre of gravity G must fall within the plane A B D, which is effected by an oblique lateral movoment of the trunk towards B D. The foot E having taken a new position at e, the second foot B is set in motion, raised, and advanced to b, and the base of support becomes transferred from the rectangular triangle, A B D, to the oblique- angled triangle, A e D : by an oblique lateral motion of the trunk, the centre of gravity is propelled towards A a, within the new base of support, leaving the leg free to move without danger of the horse falling. The leg B having advanced and taken a new position at b, the leg D is next raised and advanced to d, during which the base of support is transferred from the plane A e D, to that of A b e, within which the centre of gravity is propelled ; lastly, the leg A is advanced to a, and the base of support is transferred from the plane A b e to that of b e d. When the leg A has reached the point a, the base of support becomes a new parallelogram abed, equal in dimensions to that of A B E D. In walk- ing. 245. a (fo -g% "6 A /! ing, the four legs move in the order above- mentioned successively. The time occupied in performing the series of movements to com- plete a step varies. In horses of large dimen- sions, one foot moves the length of a step every second, and, therefore, each leg swings one quar- ter, and rests on the ground three-quarters of a second. In walking at a more rapid pace each leg moves in rather a less period, and the interval between the setting down of one leg and the rising of the next vanishes. The trot. — In the trot the legs move in pairs diagonally. If the legs A D (fig. 246) be first raised and advanced, then B E will generally be raised the instant that A D reach the ground ; on the other hand, when the legs B E are raised before those of A D reach the ground, the trot approximates to the gallop of two beats, the four legs being at the same time,' for a minute interval, above the plane of mo- tion. The bases of support in the trot are the lines A D and B E alternately. The same