ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 193 compound mass, which assumes the form of the particular part of the organ in which it is placed, and is divided into compartments, marking its original multiple form by septa of condensed Glisson's capsule supporting dilated vessels. It would appear to be this form of tumour which has been described by Farre as the first variety of his tubera diffusa; he gives them the following character. " Tubera, ele- vated at the surface of the organ, but not uni- form in their figure, some rising with a regular swell into a round form, others acquiring a margin by being gradually depressed towards the centre, forming tumours without cysts, almost pulpy in their consistence, cellular in their structure, and containing an opaque white fluid." Another form of the albuminous carcinoma- tous tumour is the large white tubercle" of Baillie, the tubera circumscripta of Farre, by whom they are thus admirably described : " Their colour inclines to a yellowish white, and their projecting surfaces, slightly variegated with red vessels, deviate from a regular swell by a peculiar indentation at or near their cen- tres, which are perfectly white and opaque. They vary much in size, which depends on the duration of each tuber, for at its first appear- ance it is very minute, but during its growth it assumes the character above described, and at its maturity exceeds an inch in its diameter. They adhere intimately to the liver, and their figure is well defined. They commonly remain distinct at the surface of the liver, but inter- nally they ultimately coalesce and form im- mense morbid masses which pervade its sub- stance. They possess so close a cellular struc- ture that the section of them at first view appears solid and inorganic; but on the edt;e of the knife, by which they have been disse- vered, an opaque white fluid of the consistence of cream is left, and a fresh portion of this fluid is gathered on it at each time that it is repassed over the surface of the section. Their cellular structure becomes more apparent after long maceration." The depression in the centre of carcinoma- tous tumours, although generally met with, is not a necessary character of cancer. Its mode of formation has been ably pointed out by Dr. Carswell, in his beautiful work on pathological anatomy: " The depression is not observed unless when the tumour is divided or is situ- ated on the surface of an organ, as the liver, where tumours of this kind are generally met with. In the former case the depression arises from the softer substance, after the division of the tumour raising itself by its elasticity above the unyielding nucleus; in the latter it is pro- duced by the peritoneum adhering to the sur- face of the tumour when small, and preventing its development in that direction. If the tu- mour does not come in contact with the peri- toneum until it has acquired a considerable size, it presents no such depression, or only a very small one. Hence the reason why, in carci- noma of the liver, we meet with some tumours having a smooth globular surface, and others with a central depression of greater or less extent." vol, nr. Another variety of carcinomatous tumour is named the gelatiniform cancer, from the exis- tence of a firm and jelly-like deposit which oc- cupies the cells of the tumour m place of the albuminous secretion common to the preceding forms. 1 have before me an interesting speci- men of gelatiniform tubercle. The liver con- tains a considerable number of these tumours of variable size, and dispersed through every part of its structure. The smallest resemble the small patches described above as the inci- pient stage of carcinomatous tumour generally; the largest are equal in size to a walnut. They are distinctly circumscribed, and the lobules immediately surrounding them are flattened and compressed. In the smaller tubercles the form of the lobules is quite distinct, but in the larger the lobules have yielded to the peculiar characters of the disease. On the surface the centre of the tubercle presents an oval or cir- cularly indented ring, around which the tumour swells suddenly and then subsides to the cir- cumference. On making a section of one of these tumours, 1 found a central area of about two lines in diameter, transparent, dense, and apparently gelatinous, and distinctly bounded by a white marginal line; the marginal portion of the section forming the bulk of the tumour was elastic, and rose above the central area to subside gradually in the marginal line of the circumference. The whole section bore a stri- king resemblance to the conjunctiva affected with chemosis, only that it was paler in its colour, or to a beautiful flower with a single large and expanded circle of petals. On exa- mining a thin section with a lens of low power a number of minute parallel injected capillaries were seen traversing the marginal portion of the tubercle towards the boundary line of the area, but no vessels could be traced beyond that line into the central portion. The resem- blance to the petals of a flower was produced by white lines which radiated from the boun- dary line of the area to the circumference, and divided the marginal portion of the tumour into six or eight compartments. From careful examination it appeared to me that the central area was a single lobule expanded by the gela- tinous deposition with which its tissue was in- filtrated, and the marginal compartments pre- sented a similar character. k. Medullary sarcoma.—Another form of tu- bercle, associated with the cancerous diathesis and belonging to the carcinomatous family, is medullary sarcoma, or encephalosis. The tu- mours produced by this disease are larger than scrofulous tubercles, and more regular in form and fewer in number than scirrhous tumours. Developed originally in the same way with scirrhus, by infiltration into the tissue of the lobules, or into the vessels themselves, of the peculiar greyish white and opaque substance of which they are composed, they increase in size and obstruct the circulation in the surrounding lobules. Their internal structure is a loose cellular base, filled with a soft and brain-like matter, frequently coloured with blood, or containing coagula in various stages of soften- ing, resulting from heEmoriliagic extravasation. o