NOSE. 730 the surface of the skin. Their secretion is copious, so that after death a mass of seba- ceous matter may be squeezed from the orifice of each hair-follicle; and their ducts as well as the follicles themselves are said to be espe- cially liable to be infested by the acarus J'ul- liculorum lately discovered by Dr. Simon.* I find none of the simple utricular follicles de- scribed by Cloquet and others in the skin of the nose; probably they were empty hair fol- licles. On the upper three-fourths of the nose, the skin moves freely on the subjacent bones and cartilages, a thin layer of pliant cellular and adipose tissue being placed between them. In the lower fourth, and especially about the base of the nose, the skin is thicker and more com- pact than it is above; there is very little fat beneath it, and what there is is arranged in small and discrete granules; and the cutis, muscle, and fibrous membrane are so closely connected that they are moved together as one mass. At the nostrils the skin of the nose turns in- wards and is continuous with the mucous membrane, which, after lining the nasal fossae and the cavities opening into them, is con- tinued into the pharynx through the posterior nares, and into the nasal duct and Eustachian tube. The boundary between the skin and mucous membrane cannot be strictly drawn. It may be fixed, however, at the part just below which those hairs are implanted which con- verge from the inner circumference towards the centre of the nostril, so as to entangle any light body floating in the inspired air. These hairs are of the kind named vibrissa. Like the eye- lashes they are short, stiff, slightly curved, and pointed at their free extremities; and they are peculiarly well adapted for examining the mi- nute structure of hair. In them also, as well as in the eye-lashes, one may best see the mode in which hairs are shed. In all which fall off spontaneously, or which, being about to fall, may be pulled away without pain, the conical cavity at the lower end, into which the vascular pulp fitted, is closed, having gradually con- tracted and shifted itself off the pulp as the hair ceased to be nourished and died. The follicles of these hairs are similar to those of the hairs of the externa! integument, and each of them is associated with sebaceous glands, which, like those accompanying the hairs about the orifice of the vagina, are more numerous than in parts less exposed to the con- tact of fluids. A whorl of four or more small glands is often associated with a single hair- follicle; and when the hairs fall off, and their follicles partially close, the glands open, as if directly, by a common duct upon the surface. The mucous membrane (Schneiderian or pitu- itary membrane) of the nose is far from uni- form in its different parts. It is everywhere, and in some parts inseparably, connected with the periosteum or perichondrium which imme- diately covers the bones and cartilages, and which is often spoken of as the internal or deep * Muller's Archiv. 1842, p. 218. layer of the fibro-mucous membrane; but, while the latter is in all parts nearly similar, differing only in thickness and degree of vascularity, the mucous membrane itself presents con- siderable diversities. In the antrum and other supplemental cavi- ties of the nose the mucous membrane is thin, but little vascular, and of the simplest kind, having neither papillae nor glands embedded in it. On the turbinated bones, the septum, and the floor of the nostrils, it is thick, spongy, red, and turgid with blood collected in the plexus of large vessels in its areolar tissue. These vessels seem to form in some parts a distinct layer between the periosteum and the proper mucous membrane, but they are ex- actly analogous to those of the areolar or sub- mucous tissue of other compound mucous membranes, in all of which there is a plane of large vessels from which those of smaller size ascend to the apparatus disposed upon the surface. In the Schneiderian membrane the veins of this plexus far exceed the arteries in size, and their close connection with the veins within the skull may be a provision for re- lieving the latter when subjected to an undue pressure of blood. The epistaxis of plethoric persons and of those who read hard probably has its origin in this connection; for the pres- sure of the blood in the congested cerebral vessels being communicated to the walls of these of the mucous membrane, these will burst more readily than those which are on every side supported by scarcely yielding tis- sues. The size of these veins, too, and the facility with which they permit distension, (almost resembling in this the veins of an erectile tissue,) account for the rapidity with which the membrane sometimes swells up, so as in a minute or two to obstruct the passage of the nose. The free surface of that portion of the mu- cous membrane which lines the proper cavities of the nose is smooth. It presents the orifices of many simple follicles or crypts. They are most numerous about the lower and anterior parts of the walls of the fossa?, are of various sizes, and in many places lie in groups or rows. The follicles themselves are hemispherical, or deep and more or less elongated. At the lower and anterior part of the septum, there is often a single long duct running horizontally and leading to a collection of gland-cells which all appear to open into it; and, generally, some others of the larger orifices are connected with composite glands. The epithelium of the nose is, in part, of the laminated, in part of the ciliary, kind. Henle* says that if an imaginary plane section of the nose be made from the anterior free border of the nasal bones to the anterior nasal spine of the superior maxillary bones, all the mucous membrane below and in front of this plane is covered by laminated epithelium, and all above and behind it by ciliary epithelium. The latter covers not only all the walls of the nasal fossae, but is continued from them to the surface of * Allgemeine Anatomic, p. 246.