ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 195 nor is any hardness or swelling perceptible in the region of the liver." Kiernan, who has observed several cases of this disease, informs me that the symptoms are sudden jaundice, depression of the powers of the system, and speedy dissolution ; upon dissection he found complete absence of bile in the biliary ducts, the mucous membrane of which appeared bleached. b. Alterations in the physical properties of the bile.—The changes to which the bile is l.able are in no wise referable to any particular alteration in the liver. In cases where this organ has been considerably diseased, the se- cretion of the bile has been found natural and healthy; and in other cases, where a slight de- gree of congestion was all the apparent patho- logical derangement, the secretion has assumed a morbid appearance, or has been deficient or superabundant in quantity. Gall-stones are sometimes found in the gall-bladder without any admonitory symptoms during life, and icterus may be a frequent and even a fatal malady without any obstruction appearing in the course of the biliary tubes after death, or without any satisfactory indications of diseased action in the liver. " I have been sometimes astonished," says Andral, " on seeing the enormous quantity of bile which distended the alimentary canal in cases where the slightest degree of congestion existed in its coats, and when the liver appeared in no wise altered." Nay, it has been proved both by observation and experiment that the bile is materially changed in appearance, quantity, and consist- ence by the mere alteration of diet. Experi- ments made upon living animals have long since shewn that bile taken from different indi- viduals is capable of producing very different effects upon the animals into whose bodies it has been introduced; thus some will give rise to a trifling irritation, while others will occasion more or less serious symptoms and even rapid death. Some bile may be touched and even tasted without inconvenience, while other bile, precisely similar in appearance, will produce pustular eruptions and ulcerations upon the tongue and upon the lips. " Here then," says Andral, " are serious changes in the bile which are wholly imperceptible to the investigation of anatomy." The colour of the bile differs very consi- derably, being sometimes hardly distinguish- able from serum, and at other times presenting a variable tint of amber, orange, green, brown, olive, and even black. In consistence it is equally various, being one while limpid and diffluent, and another while black, viscous, and grumous. b. Alterations in the chemical properties of the bile.—In chemical composition, the altera- tions in the bile are not less numerous than in its physical properties. In fatty liver the bile has been found composed almost wholly of albumen and water. Under other circum- stances the natural constituents are greatly altered in their relative proportion. The formation of biliary calculi may be re- ferred to disproportionate secretion of the na- tural elements of the bile, the increased quantity of certain of its constituents giving rise to the deposition and accretion of these substances in a form corresponding with the cavities in which they are produced. Gall-stones have been found in the smaller biliary ducts in the sub- stance of the liver, in the excretory ducts both within and external to the organ, and in the gall-bladder. They have also been met with inclosed in a cyst, formed most probably by the obliteration of one of the hepatic ducts, and adherent to the organ or suspended from it by a pedicle. Malpighi found gall-stones in the small biliary ducts and considered them as petrified lobules. The size of biliary concre- tions is very various, being sometimes exceed- ingly small, and at other times of considerable bulk. When small they are generally numerous ; I have counted upwards of a hundred, and in- stances are recorded where more than a thousand were found in the gall-bladder. When they are large they are few in number, and frequently single. I have seen the gall-bladder filled with three, two, and even one large calculus. A large oval gall-stone now before me equal in size to a pigeon's egg I removed from the ductus choledochus. Their form is equally various with their size and other physical cha- racters. I have now before me gall-stones with a flattened shape, triangular, and tuberculated on the angles and on the surface; others have three equal facettes with sharp or flattened or rounded angles; others again are irregular in their outline and would seem to be moulded to the canals and cavities from which they have been withdrawn. Being stained by the colour- ing matter of the bile, their colour varies with the predominant tint of the secretion in which they have been formed, hence some are reddish brown or black; others are yellow, and others again white; some are mottled yellow and black, or white and black with various shades of green. In chemical composition there are, according to Andral, five principal varieties of biliary concretions; they are, 1. of yellow colouring matter; 2. of resin; 3. of cholesterine ; 4. of picromel; 5. of phosphate of lime. The fir.^t kind appears very ill founded, for yellow is a prevailing tint among gall-stones, and is the mere pigment by which cholesterine and the other substances are coloured. By far the largest proportion of gall-stones are formed of cholesterine, either pure, when it presents a white semitransparent mass beautifully cystal- lized in its interior, or variously tinted with brown, yellow, or orange, and radiating from the centre towards the circumference or from a small central nucleus. The smaller calculi also exhibit upon fracture the same radiated appearance. The gall-stones of resin and picromel may be classed together and consi- dered as biliary concretions formed of inspis- sated bile probably accreted through the agency of cholesterine. The calculi of salts of lime are less frequent; they are found in the gall- bladder or in the ductus communis choledochus. I have observed them to present two varieties, firstly, incrustations of phosphate of lime upon o 2