OSSEOUS TISSUE. 851 Fig. 453. Tlie forms assumed by the bone cells in man. Fig. 454. Various forms of bone cells found in the bone of the Boa Constrictor. Fig. 455. a, form of bone cell in the common frog ; b, bone cells from the crania of the common goldfinch ; c, form of bone cell in the sheep's-head fish ; d, form of bone cells in the green-boned fish. of any very definite enumeration, since no two cells will be found possessed of a like number of branching tubes. The general arrangement of the tubes is radiate as regards the cells, which forms their common centre. This statement requires some qualification, for not uncommonly a much greater number of tubes arise from one side of the cell than from the other, and these tubes all take one direction. A tube after passing some little distance from the cell will in many in- stances divide, and each division pass on distinct from its fellow, equalling in size the parent tube. Frequent anastomoses are effected between different tubes arising from the same cells, but far more frequently between those which arise from neighbouring cells. So fre- quent are the connections that a free com- munication is established between the various cells and branching tubes throughout the substance of the bone. So numerous are the connections between the tubes, and immediately between the cells through the tubes, that a fluid introduced into one cell in a bone may find its way into every other cell of the bone. Indeed this does take place, though not from a single cell, yet from the surface of the bone. If, for instance, you place a bone that is dry, and opaque as a conse- quence of being dry, in spirits of turpentine, in a very little time this bone, before opaque, will become comparatively transparent, and this through the fluid having passed through the tubes into the cells. For, as will be shown, it is the tubes only that open upon the surface of the bone, either the external surface or the sur- face of the canals for vessels. Indeed, if a thin section of bone be taken and all moisture removed, and spirit of turpentine be added to it, when under the microscope, the passage of the fluid through the tubes may be seen, an ex- periment suggested by my friend Mr. Bowman. Besides this relation between the tubes them- selves and their cells, they have a very definite relation to the Haversian canals as well as to the free surface of the bone and also to the laminae. The position occupied by the cells is between the lamina;, or on the surface of the laminae ; and where concentric laminae occur, as in the Haversian system, the cells are arranged in cir- cular lines between the laminae, each line of cells having as an exit common to it and the con- necting laminae the Haversian canal. The flattened sides of the cells are parallel with the circumference of the Haversian canal, while their greater diameter is in the direction of the circular line of the lamina, or with the length of the canal to which they belong. Bone cells so placed send out numerous tubes, which pierce the laminae at right angles and proceed in great numbers to the vascular canal, into which they enter, there terminating in an open mouth upon the surface ; thereby establishing a con- nection of tube channels between the bone cells of the Haversian system and the canal of the system. (See//g.448.) Although these cells send out manytubes in the above direction, yet others, though comparatively few, take an opposite course, and then establish by anastomosis a con- nection with the tubes of the surrounding bone cells. This is more particularly seen when we look upon a transverse section of an Haversian system; but if a section taken in the length of an Haversian system be examined, the tubes will for the most part be seen dividing the cells equally in point of number from every part of the circumference of the cell, and of course pro- ceeding in the length of the laminae between 3 i 2