5-11 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. In the Pteropod Mollusca, we likewise find the entire body enclosed in a muscular bag, forming what is called the visceral sac, but the locomotive organs present themselves under a different aspect. These consist of two muscular flaps or wings, appended to the op- posite sides of the neck, which form, in fact, two oars or paddles, wherewith the little Ptero- pods row themselves about from place to place, or gambol gaily among the waves, which some- times, in the northern oceans, swarm with count- less multitudesof them. The lateral fins in ques- tion were regarded by Cuvier as being likewise subservient to respiration, an opinion, however, which Eschricht satisfactorily confutes. The lat- ter writer, moreover, points out a little circum- stance worth recording, namely, that the wings are not distinct and separate organs as at first they would appear, but that the muscles mov- ing them pass continuously m a crucial di- rection through the neck of the animal from one wing to the opposite, so as to convert the whole apparatus into an exact representation of the double paddle used by the Greenlander, in rowing his kajac, or canoe, over the very seas frequented by the Pteropods, in such abun- dance. In the Carnivorous Cephalopoda the mus- cular sac composing the body, the parietes of the head, and the long and flexible arms with their curiously constructed sucking cups ap- pended, are all made up of variously disposed contractile fibres ; but these are too fully and well described in another place to require more than a passing notice in this general survey. (See Cephalopoda.) Arrived at the vertebrate division of the ani- mal series, we at once find the moving powers assuming a complexity of arrangement and precision of action, proportional to the elabo- rate construction of the internal osseous, or car- tilaginous skeleton, which now forms the frame- work of the body, and must be regarded as entering into the composition of several dis- tinct systems of organs appointed to different offices, and physiologically independent of each other. Each of these systems, or sets of muscles, indeed, is developed for special pur- poses, and so far are they from progres- sively presenting themselves, in a gradually improving condition, as we rise from lower to more elevated orders of Vertebrate animals, that the physiologist must be prepared to ex- pect every irregularity in this respect; impor- tant organs, or sets of organs, that in the lowest Vertebrata are found to be most elaborate and complex in their structure, are not (infre- quently either wholly or partially obliterated, as we ascend the scale of animal life, and others equally important to the animals possessed of them, are only met with in certain races, that are endowed with peculiar habits or capabi- lities. But, what is still more startling to the ana- tomist, who has confined his dissections to the examination of the muscular system as it exists in mature or complete animals, and has con- sequently been accustomed to describe as being permanent and invariable the origins and in- sertions of every muscle, that he meets with, the study of embryogeny reveals to the philo- sophical enquirer a series of changes in pro- gress, as relates to the arrangement or even the existence of various parts of the animal eco- nomy, involving changes as remarkable, in all the muscular apparatus connected therewith. In order, therefore, fully to lay before the reader, with as much brevity as perspicuity will allow, phenomena so important as those which next offer themselves to our notice, it will be advisable, first, to enumerate the prin- cipal systems of muscles that enter into the composition of a completely formed Vertebrate creature, premising that each may be but feebly developed in proportion to the rest, and many of them, indeed, absolutely wanting in a given animal, and afterwards to examine separately the varieties of arrangement met with in the animal series in relation to each, and likewise the metamorphoses that accompany embryonic development. Without overburdening with detail this in- teresting enquiry, or unnecessarily multiplying divisions of the muscular apparatus, we shall content ourselves with grouping all the muscles of a Vertebrate animal, as belonging to one or other of the following systems, each of which will demand separate examination. 1. Vertebral system, muscles directly acting upon the spine and cranial vertebrae. 2. Costal system, muscles moving the ribs and parietes of the thorax and abdomen. 3. Hyoid system, muscles acting upon the os hyoides and branchial arches. 4. Opercular system, muscles moving the operculum of fishes. 5. Muscles of the limbs. 6. Muscles acting upon the lower jaw and serving for mastication. 7. Tegumenlary system, muscles acting upon the skin and its appendages. 8. Vocal system, muscles of the voice. 9. Diaphragm. 10. Lingual si/stem. 11. Ocular system, muscles moving the eye- ball and its appendages. 12. Aural system, muscles acting upon the ossicles of hearing and moving the external ear. 13. Nasal system, muscles acting upon moveable parts of the nose. 14. Generative system, muscles attached to the apparatus of generation. 1. The muscular apparatus peculiarly appro- priated to the movements of the vertebral chain of bones presents its maximum of developement in the osseous fishes, in which animals loco- motion being principally accomplished by the lateral sweepings of the broadly expanded ver- tical tail, every arrangement has been made to increase the depth of the spinal column and to extend the surface presented by the superior and inferior spinous processes to the greatest possible degree, not only by lengthening inor- dinately those processes themselves, but like- wise by appending to their extremities addi- tional pieces derived apparently from the exo-skeleton. The muscles destined to act upon the flexible spine of the fish are propor-