855 OSSEOUS TISSUE. \g. 458. temporary cartilage on the approach of ossifi- cation is that the corpuscles, instead of being solitary, are arranged in groups of variable numbers according as they are near or far off the site of immediate ossification ; that they have a linear arrangement, and where there are two or three only this is somewhat semilunar, with the straight edges near each other ; and that the greatest diameter is lateral. (See Jig. 457, b.) Moreover, the columns are not continued unin- terruptedly through the cartilage, but are broken off, and near their terminations new ones com- mence, not, however, in a line with the former, but opposite their inlercolumnar spaces. (See jig. 458.) Supposing this view of the subject to be correct, as I believe it to be, the growth of a bone in its length ad- mits of easy solution, name- ly, by the developement of cartilage at the epiphyses. The formation of co- lumns having commenced, developement in the lines proceeds with rapidity, and the corpuscles composing them hold a different rela- tion to each other at each part of the same column. Thus at the end farthest from a, intercolumnar the point of ossification the or cellular tissue; b, corpuscles are flattened and panetes or the cor- . , i puscle ; c, central closely arranged, present- cavity of the corpus- lng an appearance not un- cle, like a pile of pence. But as we trace the line down to- wards the bone, each corpuscle becomes more distinct, is separated from those on either side, becomes itself enlarged, and of nearly equal dimension in each direction. (See Jigs. 458 and 460.) The intercellulartissuebecomesdistinctly visible between each corpuscle. The space also between the columns, though always consider- able, is increased when the corpuscles have undergone the above change. (See fig. 459.) Fig. 459. Temporary cartiluye, with corpuscle arran- ged in columns. and relative position observable, but a further remarkable developement takes place in each corpuscle. The parietes of the cell, which at first formed but a small part of the whole, at this latter situation has so far increased in di- mension that it forms by far the greater part of the mass, while the central portion, which at first appears to constitute the whole corpuscle, notwithstanding its increase of size, is now to be regarded only as a nucleus, presenting the ap- pearance of a cavity or granular cell, of a form approaching that of a sphere. (See^. 460.) Cartilage, when it has Fig. 460. been subject to the above changes, in the nexttransition becomes bone. In order to un- derstand this process it will be necessary to bear in mind the fol- lowing points: first, that the enlarged carti- lage corpuscles are ar- ranged in vertical co- lumns; that each co- lumn is surrounded by the intercellular tissue, and that each corpuscle is separated from those above and below by a layer of intercellular tissue; and,lastly, that each corpuscle has dis- tinct parietes with cen- tral nucleus, or cavity, containing granules or having granular parie- tes. Osseous tissue is in all instances developed in the form of minute granules, so the earliest appearance of bone in cartilage is marked by the presence of these spherical granules in the intercolumnar and intercellular tissue, which is thereby increased in density and opacity. This constitutes the first stage in the process of the developement of bone, and may be observed by making a thin section of a bone at the point of junction of the bone and cartilage, where the shaft is connected'with the epiphysis. (See Jig. 461.) The granular appearance will be Fig. 461. Section of temporary car- tilaye, which has under' gone the last stage towards ossijication. a, intercolumnar tis- sue ; b, the enlarged pa- rietes of corpuscle ; c, central nucleus of the corpuscle. Section of the intercellular or hyaline substance, the corpuscle having been removed. Not only are the described changes in form Transverse section of temporary cartilage in the first stage of ossijication. a, a, intercellular tissue ossified ; 6, the trans- parent parietes of the enlarged corpuscle ; c, the central nucleus, which in the specimen from which this figure was taken was granular.