749 NUTRITION. from the bloodvessels, and its subsequent con- solidation in the manner already described. No such idea seems to have occurred to the continental physiologists, who, following in the path which had been marked out by Schwann, have sought to trace, for all the tissues, an imme- diate origin in cells. But the writer does not find that any of them are sufficiently aware of the facts already detailed, in regard to the definite structure which fibrin will assume, when it has undergone a high degree of elaboration, and has coagulated under the most favourable circum- stances ; and with the greatest respect to their authority, he ventures to attach sufficient weight to the observations of Messrs. Gulliver and Addison, confirmed as they are by his own, to induce him to adopt a different explanation, which he offers with diffidence, to be confirmed or set aside by future enquiries. The fibrous tissue existing in false mem- branes, and still more that which has been dis- covered by the writer in the egg-shell, may be regarded in his opinion as a type of those sim- ple fibrous tissues, which form a large porpor- tion of the bulk of the body in the higher animals, and of which the function is purely mechanical. When we contrast the fabric of an animal with that of a plant, we are struck with this important difference in their conform- ation,—that whilst the latter is made up solely of elements which are to perform their several parts in the performance of the nutritive and reproductive operations, (the only exception being in the case of those more solid portions of the fabric which are destined to give mechanical support to the remainder),—the former is composed of a much greater variety of parts, which are adapted to move upon each other. Now this purpose requires, not only the addition of certain new tissues, to which nothing analogous is to be found in plants, for creating and exercising the motor power, but also an adaptation of the whole structure to this new condition. The tissues of plants entirely consist of cells, or simple modifications of them. Some of these cells being strengthened by in- ternal deposits, form the solid woody frame- work of the stem and branches, which gives support to their wide-spreading foliage and numberless blossoms. Others coalesce, by the disappearance of their intervening partitions, into tubes, which serve for the conveyance of fluid between the most distant parts. But the great bulk of the fabric still consists of cells, closely adherent to each other, and actively par- ticipating in the various operations of organic life. In like manner in the animal body, a certain part of the cells have contributed to form the solid osseous and cartilaginous framework, which not only gives support and protection to the body, but contributes to its power of move- ment, by affording fixed points for the attach- ment of its muscles. Others again have coal- esced into vessels, as in plants, for the rapid conveyance of fluids. Others, too, after a simi- lar, coalescence, have developed new and re- markable products in the interior of the tubes thus formed, and become transformed into those nervous and muscular tissues, to which nothing analogous is found in plants, and which are the peculiar instruments of animal life. Yet still there remains a large number of unchanged cells scattered through the body, which perforin, as in plants, the essential part in the functions of nutrition, reproduction, &c. These, how- ever, could not be held together in their con- stantly-varying relative positions without some intervening substance altogether different from true cellular tissue. It must be capable of resisting tension with considerable firmness and elasticity; it must admit free movement of the several parts upon one another; and it must still hold them sufficiently close together to resist any injurious strain upon the delicate vessels, nerves, &c, which pass from one to another, as well as to prevent any permanent dis- placement. Now all these offices are performed in a remarkably complete degree, by the areolar tissue,* the reason of whose restriction to the animal kingdom is thus evident. It is chiefly composed of interlacing fibres and shreds of membrane, which do not seem possessed of any other than simply physical properties; the small degree of vital contractility which it possesses in some spots (as in the dai tos,) being attribut- able to the intermixture of fibres analogous to those of the unstriated muscular tissue. One of its most remarkable peculiarities is the ra- pidity of its regeneration ; and this is obviously- due, in part, to the large amount of bloodvessels by which it is traversed. The accounts given of its developement by Schwann and Henle do not by any means correspond ; and it appears to the writer, that the evidence of the partici- pation of cells in the process, in any other way than as elaborating the fibrin, is very insuffi- cient. The observation already quoted from Mr. Addison ( p. 746) seems to explain some appearances occasionally met with, which in- duced those observers to assign a more direct cell-origin to thistissue; for he notices thatthere- mains of the white corpuscles, and little aggrega- tions of the granules they had emitted, seemed to be the centres, as it were, of the fibrillation.f If we once admit this doctrine in regard to areolar tissue, it is not difficult to extend it to those fibrous structures in general, which re- semble it in the physical natuie of their func- tions ; and we shall then leave to the tissues of cell-origin, in animals as in plants, the perform- ance of those operations which must be re- garded as vital in their character. As an ad- ditional argument in support of this view, the appearances presented by the semi-fibrous car- tilages may be adduced. In the cartilages of * This was formerly termed CELLULAR, tissue, under which designation it is described in the pre- sent work ; but the appellation here given is the one under which it is now generally spoken of, for the sake of distinguishing it from tissues really composed of cells. f Since writing the above, the author has become aware that a view of the developement of areolar tissue, essentially corresponding with that advanced above, has been recently put forth by Mandl, (Manuel d'Anatomie Generate, p. 552,) althouoh he too seems quite unaware of the degree in which the fibrinous part of the blood Jibrillutes in coa- gulating.