PISCES. 969 Fig. 503. Myology of the Perch. sphenoidal and alar bones; and an elevator, (Jig. 502, 24,) which comes from be- neath the orbit, and antago- nizes the preceding by dila- ting the cavity in which the branchiae are lodged; these two are the principal muscles employed in respiration. Muscles of the operculum. —The movements of the oper- culum are very similar to those of the palato-tympanic arch, and its muscles likewise con- sist simply of an elevator and a depressor (figs. 504 & 505, 25", 26.) Muscles of the os hyoides. —The principal of these (figs. 503 & 505, 27) seems to correspond to the genio-hy- oideus, and has a similar of- fice; its antagonist is a pro- longation of the great lateral muscle of the body (fig. 503, 1, 1.) Muscles of the branch iostegous membrane.— These consist of a layer of fibres (figs. 503, 504, 28) running transversely across the inner surface of the branchiostegous rays; this is in some Fishes assisted by accessory muscular fibres derived from the os hyoides. Muscles of the branchial and pharyngeal apparatus.-—These must be divided into several groups, some of which connect this apparatus with the skull, others to the spine, others to the humeral bone, and others to the os hyoides ; while some connect one part of the apparatus to another. Their general distribution is shewn in fig. 505, 32,35, 37, &c, but to describe them more minutely would carry us beyond our limits. In the Ostracions, or box-fishes, which have their entire body, with the exception of their jaws and fins, enclosed in a dense case of ar- mour, the arrangement of the lateral muscles of the trunk is considerably modified ; they oc- cupy, indeed, the same situation, but are only attached at the head and tail. In this case After Cuvier. Fis. 504. Myology of the Perch. After Cuvier, insertions into the vertebral column would have been useless, seeing that the tail is the only moveable part. The texture of these lateral muscles is also much simpler, their fibres being almost all longitudinal. The ribs are entirely wanting, these parts being replaced by a silvery aponeurosis, which forms the walls of the abdomen and lines the interior of the shell. In the Plagiostome cartilaginous genera there are considerable differences in the arrangement of the muscular system which will demand a brief notice. The Raida, or Skates, for exam- ple, so remarkable for the construction of their skeleton, are not less so in respect to the dispo- sition of the muscles that move its different parts. In these fishes the muscles of the trunk resemble very strikingly those which are met with in the tails of quadrupeds. They are four in number, arranged upon two planes, so that there are two superior lateral and two inferior lateral muscles. The superior laterals arise from the middle portion of the vertebral column above the abdo-