OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 832 The palatine bones (22) are easily recog- nisable in Fishes, occupying the same place as in Serpents f fig. 439), and, moreover, further distinguished by being frequently armed with teeth which project into the roof of the mouth. In Reptiles, also, teeth are often attached to them where they assist in forming the cavity of the mouth. These bones are found in all the vertebrate classes. The transverse bones (24) occupy nearly the same situation in Fishes as in Reptiles, but in the latter they are most distinctly seen. In the Crocodile each is a bone of considerable size, composed of three branches and extending between the pterygoid bone and the junction of the jugal, the maxillary, and the posterior frontal. This bone is not met with, either in Birds or Mammalia, not even in the foetal period of their existence. The internal pterygoid bones (25) are like- wise distinct in fishes, stretching between the Fig. 443. Fig. 444. Skull of a young Ostrich ( Struthio Camelus). palatine bone and that which supports the lower jaw (26). In Reptiles they are large and important detached bones, occupying the po- sition of the pterygoid processes of the sphe- noid ; but in Birds and Mammals they become completely anchylosed with the sphenoid, so that, by the human osteologist, they are erro- neously regarded as apophyses of that bone. Section of skull of young Ostrich. The zygomatic, Owen, (jugal, Cuvier,) are in Fishes broad pieces, generally of a triangular shape, placed behind the transverse, which by their inferior angle support the articulation of the lower jaw. In Reptiles, too, it may al- ways be distinguished by the latter circum- stance, and in Serpents it is particularly re- markable (jigs. 438, 439, 26), standing out from the squamo-temporal (mastoid, Cuv.) like a branch, and thus giving that extraor- dinary mobility to the articulation of the in- ferior maxilla which enables those Reptiles to swallow prey so disproportioned to the size of their mouths. In other Reptiles this mobility is in a great degree lost. But in Birds the zygomatic bones again assume very important functions. They are here known by the name ossa quadrata, and standing out to a con- siderable distance from the skull allow of great mobility to the zygomato-maxillary articulation, and also to the bones supporting the superior maxilla. In Mammalia this zygomatic bone is so firmly and undistinguishably united to the temporal that the human osteologist merely calls it the zygomatic process of that bone. The masto-temporal, Owen, (temporal, Cuv 23), are in Fishes and Reptiles distinct elements of the skull, which in the human cranium are consolidated with the other elements com- posing the " os temporis."