751 NUTRITION. scarcely be doubted, therefore, that these are supplied directly from the blood. Dr. Barry and Mr. Addison have spoken with much con- fidence of the metamorphosis of the white cor- puscles of the blood into epithelium-cells ; but that this idea is totally inadmissible is proved by the existence of a continuous stratum of basement-membrane, between the capillary net- work and the epidermic or epithelial layer. It is not impossible, however, and perhaps may be considered probable, that the cell-germs contained in this basement-membrane, from which the cells on its external surface appear to take their origin, may be the offspring of the white corpuscles of the blood, which thus sup- plies both the plastic materials and the germs of the constantly-forming new crops of epithe- lial cells. There is no other tissue in the body, after all its organs had attained their full deve- lopement, which can be regarded as taking its origin from the blood in the same degree; but it may be questioned whether in the formation of new parts, either during the developement of the embryo, or in the reparation of injuries, the office of the blood is not of a similar du- plex character. Thus when plastic lymph is thrown .out, between the two surfaces of a wound, the first process, as already mentioned, is its fibrillation ; but at the same time a deve- lopement of cells takes place in it, which cells may possibly undergo a subsequent metamor- phosis into the various forms of tissue which the newly-formed part afterwards contains, precisely as in the first developement of the em- bryonic structure. Such a view, at least, would seem probable in regard to the capillary vessels, which seem to be formed at least as much by the inherent powers of the coagulum, as by the extension of the vessels from the subjacent surface. These views are thrown out as hints, rather than as settled ideas. It would be premature, in the present state of our knowledge, to at- tempt to decide questions of such importance without much further examination; and we can only attain a balance of probabilities by interpreting the insufficient results of observa- tion by the aid of the best analogies we can find. The whole subject has made immense progress during the few years which have elapsed since the commencement of the pre- sent work ; but here, as elsewhere, retardations have occurred through hasty generalization and dogmatic assumptions ; and much patient, well- directed, sagacious observation will he needed to unravel the many intricate questions that yet remain to be solved. Varying activity of the nutritive "processes. —Without any change in the character of the nutritive processes which we have been de- scribing, there may be consvderable variations in their degree of activity; and this, either as regards the entire organism or individual parts, though most commonly the latter. These va- riations may be so considerable as to constitute disease; though there are some which take place as part of the regular series of physiolo- gical phenomena. Thus the nutritive processes should have a degree of activity more than suffi- cient to supply the waste of the body during the whole period of infancy, childhood, and adolescence, until, in fact, its full dimensions are attained ; whilst, on the other hand, they are usually less rapid than the disintegrating processes in old age, so that the bulk of the body diminishes. Now as the waste of the body, so far from being more rapid in old age than in childhood, is much less so, it follows that the difference in the activity of the nutri- tive processes in these two states must be very considerable; and this is manifested, not only in the greater demand for food which exists in the child (relatively to the bulk of its body), but also in the greater quickness and facility with which injuries are repaired. Local va- riations may also occur as part of the regular train of vital actions in the adult ; thus we perceive an enormous increase in the amount of tissue contained in the uterus and mammary glands during pregnancy, and a decrease in the bulk of the thymus gland after the first year of infancy. Now in these cases we see that increased nutrition is invariably connected with increased functional activity, and dimi- nished nutrition with diminished functional activity : and this we shall find to be the con- stant rule in regard also to those variations which must be considered as abnormal. Increased nutrition, or hypertrophy, is never known to affect the whole body to a de- gree sufficient to constitute disease. It cannot be produced as a consequence of the ingestion of an undue supply of food, for this does not increase the formative activity of the tissues, but merely renders the blood richer in nutritive materials, a part of which the excreting organs are called on to be continually removing, with- out its being rendered subservient to the wants of the body; whilst another part may be em- ployed in the nutrition of one particular tissue, the adipose, which has a tendency to increase with the superfluity of non-azotized food, pro- vided that the requisite amount of cellular tissue be generated to hold the fatty matter. But examples of hypertrophy of particular tissues or organs are very common. Thus any parti- cular set of muscles which is subjected to fre- quent and energetic use acquires a great in- crease in bulk, as we see in the arms of a black- smith or waterman, the legs of an opera-dancer, &c. The hypertrophy of these muscles is a consequence of their increased functional acti- vity, which being produced by an exertion of the will, and unaccompanied with any inju- rious effects on the system, can scarcely be re- garded as morbid. But there are many in- stances in which the involuntary muscles ac- quire a greatly-increased strength, in conse- quence of an obstruction to their action which results from disease. Thus we see the right ventricle of the heart become hypertrophied (and dilated at the same time) where chronic pulmonary disease produces a difficulty in the propulsion of the blood through the vessels of the lungs ; the muscular fibres of the bladder become enormously hypertrophied, when stric- ture, diseased prostate, or other causes pro- duce a demand for increased expulsive force