893 PAR VAGUM. jected to considerable suffering before the nerve can be exposed, this result cannot be taken as a conclusive test that it contains no fila- ments of common sensation. We also found that division of this branch on both sides ren- dered the second stage of deglutition difficult, by paralysing the muscles of the pharynx. The morsels of food were forced through the now passive bag of the pharynx to the commence- ment of the oesophagus by the repeated efforts of the muscles of the tongue and those attached to the larynx and hyoid bone. From these facts, we concluded that the pharyngeal branches of the vagus are chiefly* perhaps entirely, com- posed of motiferous filaments, and that they convey outwards the motive influence by which the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate are excited to contraction in the reflex muscular movements of deglutition.* It is possible that they may also contain a few sensiferous and incident filaments. Valentin, on irritating these branches in different animals immediately after death, saw the pharynx contract in a marked manner through its whole length.f Volkmaun states, as we have already had occasion to mention, that various muscles of the soft palate and pharynx were thrown into contraction on excitation of the vagus within the cranium.}; He further observes, that he could not perceive any movements in the mus- cles of the pharynx or soft palate on irritating the spinal accessory within the cranium. Tins last result is certainly one which we would not expect, but the remarks we have to make upon it will be more appropriately introduced in the article Spinal Accessory Neiive.§ Longet observed very marked contractions in the pha- rynx on galvanizing the pharyngeal branch of the vagus in the horse and the dog.|| Though the experiments we have referred to, in illus- tration of the functions of the pharyngeal branches of the vagus, differ in some respects, they all agree in this, that extensive and active muscular movements of the pharynx may be produced by their excitation, and that they therefore contain many motor filaments. We have adduced some facts which would seem to shew that they contain few, if any, motor fila- ments. Laryngeal branches.—When the superior * Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour. 1838. t De Functionibus Nerv. Cerebralium, &c. p. 17, 1839. % Volkmann concludes, as we have already men- tioned, from his experiments that the stylo-pharyn- geus and middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx do noi derive their motor filaments from the pha- ryngeal branch of the vagus, but from the glosso- pharyngeal. In the article Glosso-Pharyngeal, we have stated, that, when this nerve is insula- ted carefully from the neighbouring nerves, no direct muscular movements follow its excitation. Valentin (opus cit. p. 38) and Longet (opus cit. torn. ii.p.223J have from these experiments ar- rived at the same conclusions as we have on this point. § We may merely state in the mean time that Longet (opus cit. torn. ii. p. 27) has drawn from his experiments the conclusion that the spinal ac- cessory furnishes all the motor filaments of the muscles of the larynx. || Opus cit. torn. ii. p. 271. laryngeal nerve is laid bare in a living animal and pinched with the forceps, the animal gives indications of severe suffering, while on re- peating the same experiment on the inferior la- ryngeal the animal seldom gives any indication of suffering pain. When an opening is made into the trachea, and a probe introduced through it into the interior of that tube and passed up- wards, it excites little or no uneasiness until it reaches the interior of the larynx, when violent paroxysms of coughing and signs of great un- easiness immediately follow. The division of the inferior laryngeal nerves has no effect in diminishing the severity of these paroxysms of coughing or in quieting the struggles of the animal, while they instantly cease on cutting across the internal branch of the superior la- ryngeal nerves. Before Magendie published his observations upon the functions of these nerves it appears to have been generally be- lieved that the different intrinsic muscles of the larynx received motor filaments both from the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves. Magen- die has, on the other hand, maintained that the superior laryngeal moves those muscles which shut the superior aperture of the larynx, and the inferior laryngeal those which open it, and he supposed that this view sufficiently ex- plained the closure of the superior aperture of the larynx on the division of both inferior la- ryngeal.* We found that on applying different excitants to the superior laryngeal nerve before it gave off its external branch in several animals immediately after death, that the cnco-thyroid muscle was thrown into powerful contraction and the cricoid approximated to the thyroid cartilage, while all the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages remained quiescent. On irritating the interior luryngeals all the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages were thrown into contraction, and as the force of those mus- cles which close the superior aperture of the larynx preponderates over that of those which open it, the arytenoid cartilages were drawn forwards and inwards, and the superior aperture of the larynx was closed. By applying the ex- citation to the nerves for a short time and in rapid succession, the superior aperture of the larynx could be made to close and open alter- nately,—to close during the period of excitation and to open during the intervals,—and it was also remarked that the outward movement, or that of opening, was dependent upon the elas- ticity of the parts. The inferences from these results were strengthened by an examination of the anatomical distribution of the laryngeal nerves, and confirmed by experiments upon living animals.f From these and other* facts related in the paper referred to, we arrived at the following conclusions. The superior la- ryngeal furnishes one only of the intrinsic muscles (the crico-thyroid) of the larynx with motor filaments, while it supplies nearly all the sensiferous and incident filaments of the larynx, * Compendium of Physiology, pp. 132 and 399. Milligan's Translation, 4th ed. 1831. Lecons sur les Phenomenes Physiques de la Vie, torn, ii, p. 228, 1837. t Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., pp. 138,139,1838.