93 LACRYMAL ORGANS. perior fork, however, has a few of its fibres blended with the ciliaris." The action of the muscle appears to be to direct the lacrymal papilla? and points in to- wards the lacus lacrymalis, and to assist in keeping the edges of the eyelids properly ad- justed to the eyeball. Nerves.—The parts of the organ of vision which have been just described receive their nerves from the fifth and seventh pairs; the former communicating sensibility, the latter the power to move. See articles, Fifth pair of Nerves, and Seventh pair of Nerves. The first division of the fifth pair gives nerves not only to the accessory parts of the eye, but supplies also the eyeball; hence it is called ophthalmic. The second division of the fifth sends filaments to the lower eyelids. Nerves from the first division of the fifth distributed to the accessory parts of the eye.— The first division of the fifth pair or the oph- thalmic divides into three nerves, \hefron- tal, the nasal, the lacrymal. 1. Frontal nerve. The sapra-trochlear branch of this nerve gives filaments to the upper eyelid and inner canthus. The continu- ation of the frontal nerve sends filaments to the upper eyelid and external canthus. 2. Nasal nerve. The infra-trochlear branch of this nerve supplies the parts at the inner canthus, the conjunctiva, the lacrymal caruncle and lacrymal sac ; it also gives filaments to the orbicularis palpebrarum. The tensor tarsi* receives two twigs from it. The infra-trochlear sends branches upwards, which anastomose with those of the supra-trochlear. 3. Lacrymal nerve.—After supplying the lacrymal gland the branches of this nerve emerge from it, and ramify in the conjunctiva, orbicularis muscle, and skin of the eyelids. The lacrymal nerve forms anastomoses with other branches of the fifth. Nerves from the second division of the fifth pair distributed to the accessory parts of the eye.—The principal of these is the inferior palpebral branch of the infra-orbital. The in- ferior palpebral nerve divides into two branches, an external and an internal, which indeed may be separate from the first. The external branch runs in the substance of the lower eyelid, distributing branches in its course, to the outer canthus, where it anasto- moses with the inferior palpebral filaments of the lacrymal nerve. The internal branch supplies the part of the lower eyelid towards the nose, and terminates in the parts at the inner canthus, anastomosing with a branch of the infra-trochlear. The facial orportio dura of the seventh pair. —Of the accessory parts of the eye, the orbi- cularis muscle is that which receives branches from the portio dura of the seventh pair; per- haps, also, the tensor tarsi muscle, as Mac- * Rosenmiiller, Icones chirnrgico~anatomic<e. Weimar, 1805. Trasmondi, Intorno la Scoperta di due Nervi dell' Oexhio umano ragguaglio. Estratto dal Gi- ornale Arcadico, t. xix. p. ]. Roma, 1823. kenzie conjectures. These branches of the portio dura freely anastomose with the branches of the fifth pair above described. To this superficial notice of the nerves of the accessory parts of the eye described in this article, all that requires to be added is, that the levator palpebrae superioris receives its nervous filaments from the third pair. Bloodvessels.—1. Arteries.—The branches of the external carotid ramified on the face and the ophthalmic artery from the internal carotid are the sources from which the accessory parts of the eye receive their arteries. The branches of the external carotid in the face, viz. the facial, the infra-orbital of the in- ternal maxillary, the transverse artery of the face and the temporal send ramifications to the eyelids. Towards the inner canthus the facial ends in the angular artery, which anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The angular artery, or some one of its branches, is implicated in the operation for fistula lacry- malis as it is called. The ophthalmic artery gives off the lacrymal, usually one of its first branches after its en- trance into the orbit. The lacrymal supplies the upper and lower masses of the lacrymal gland, besides other parts in the orbit, and at last issues from that cavity at the external angle of the eye. The muscular arteries of the ophthalmic, after supplying the recti muscles, are continued forward on the front of the eye- ball—one from the external rectus muscle, and two from each of the other recti. These arte- ries divide into two sets of branches, of which one set ramify in the ocular conjunctiva, and the other set supply the sclerotica. The ophthalmic, as it issues from the orbit at the internal canthus, gives off the palpebral arteries, superior and inferior. These ramify, in their respective eyelids, towards the external angle, where they meet and inosculate with the terminating branches of the lacrymal artery. The superior palpebral artery, moreover, inos- culates with the supra-orbital and anterior tem- poral ; the inferior palpebral artery witii the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the infra- orbital and transverse artery of the face, thus forming the tarsal or palpebral arches. The ramifications sent, from the branches of the external carotid in the face, to the eyelids, and those from the ophthalmic, form by their inosculations a network, from which are sup- plied the different structures of the eyelids, the conjunctiva, the lacrymal caruncle, and the lacrymal sac. Where the ocular and palpebral portions of the conjunctiva run into each other, bloodves- sels from the muscular enter and subdivide into two sets of branches—one set smaller, to the ocular conjunctiva, the other set larger, to the palpebral conjunctiva. The latter receives another and a still larger set, which enter it at the orbital margin of the tarsal cartilages, anastomose with the first set, and ramify for- wards to the free margin of the eyelids. The bloodvessels of the ocular conjunctiva are few and small in comparison to those of the palpebral. They alfect a reticular arrange-