773 OPTIC NERVES. rience proves that in the majority of such cases one or other retina is wholly paralysed, and not unfrequently vision continues perfect in one eye although extinguished in the other. More- over, although the theory in question affords an ingenious explanation of the defect in vision noticed by Wollaston, such explanation can scarcely be the true one, for Mayo has known " this visus dimidiatus to alternate in the same individual with temporary insensibility of the centre and circumference of the retina," and, as he observes, " the three phenomena being alternative no doubt proceed from the same organic source, but as the hypothesis will not explain two of them, it is probably not the right explanation of the third." 3. The structure of the human chiasma does not afford satisfactory explanation of the so called " identical" and " non-identical " parts of the two retina? as laid down by Muller, and this has been so clearly shown by himself that his own words are quoted :— " With reference to their identity of sensa- tion, the two retinae must be considered as in- cluded one within the other, so that all points of the two retinas which lie within the same degrees of latitude and longitude (the eyes being regarded as globes) are identical in their sensa- tions ; all other points in the two retinas are opposed to each other or different, just as any two points in the retina of the same eye. " If the image fall on identical points in both eyes it will be seen single, and if the image does not fall on such identical points it will appear double. " The two globes of the eyes are most mi- nutely divided into degrees, minutes, and seconds of latitude and longitude; at all cor- responding points they are identical, at all dif- ferent points non-identical. The outer lateral portion of one eye is identical with the inner portion of the other eye ; the upper part of one retina is identical with the upper part of the other, and the lower parts of the two eyes are identical with each other. " The left half of the retina A, from 1 to 5, however, (Jig. 421,) is not, as a whole, identical with the left half of the retina B, from 1 to 5, but certain points only of the left halves of both retinae are identical, viz. those which in the two Fig. 421. Diagram to represent the supposed identical parts of the two retina:. {After Muller.) 1, 2, 3, &c, the identical parts of the two retina;; c, c, the optic axes. retinae occupy the same degrees of latitude and longitude: 1 is identical with 1, 2 with 2, and so on ; but 1 in the one eye is not identical with 5 in the other eye. " To explain the single vision, therefore, it is necessary that not merely each root of the optic nerve, but each primitive fibre of each root should in the chiasma divide into two branches for the two optic nerves, so that the identical fibres of the two nerves might com- municate with the brain at one point only, viz. by one radical fibre, as in the annexed wood- cut (Jig. 422). But such a division of the fibres in the chiasma does not exist: Treviranus and Volkmann were unable to detect any division of fibres in the chiasma, and I also was unsuc- cessful in my search for such dividing fibres. ( Fig. 422. fig. 422. Diagram to represent an ideal division of the fibres in the chiasma suitable to this theory. (After Muller.) a, a, optic nerves ; b, b, tractus optici ; c, c, sup- posed division of each radical fibre in the chiasma into two branches, one for each optic nerve. 4. If single vision in man be explained on the assumption that certain parts of the two retinae are reciprocally identical, and that such identity depends upon a partial decussation in the chiasma, single vision in animals should of course admit of explanation upon the same principles; and if this be granted, the relative directions of the optic axes in the vertebrate classes ought to afford a good criterion of the extent to which the retinae are reciprocally identical; for when the optic axes have a strictly lateral direction (as in many osseous fish), the same object can never be depicted on both retinae simultaneously, and consequently it may be inferred that, in such cases, no parts of the two retinae are reciprocally identical. Again, when the optic axes are very divergent, as in many quadrupeds, the respective fields of vision must comprise in great measure different objects, and under such circumstances it may be presumed that the two retina- have but little identity. And when the eyes are so set that the optic axes are parallel, or capable of becoming parallel, or convergent (as in man), the same objects, or nearly the same, will almost con- stantly occupy the two fields of vision; and in such case the greatest amount of reciprocal identity may be assumed to occur in the two retinae. Now, if the relative directions of the optic axes in animals bear relation to the amount of reciprocal identity in their retinae, and if this reciprocal identity depend upon the decussa- tion in the chiasma, as has been assumed, the structure of the chiasma in animals generally should vary as the relative directions of their optic axes. Such variation in the structure of the chiasma has not, however, been proved to occur gene-