MOTION. 456 from acting with sufficient mechanical advan- tage to extend the thigh as perfectly as in man. Vicq D'Azyr * states, that in the Man- drills the flexors of the leg are inserted lower than the extensor muscles, and that they oppose the perfect extension of the leg upon the thigh, which renders it impossible for them to stand upright for ;ny length of time without tottering. The Chimpanzee, the Ourang-Outang, and some of the Gibbons, however, are ca- pable of walking upon their posterior extre- mities with the trunk nearly erect; but the pelvis being narrow, and the cotyloid cavities being directed inwards so as to throw the soles of the feet very near each other, the base of support becomes very much contracted, and the animal stands very unsteadily. Of all the Quadrumana, the trunk of the Chimpanzee is directed nearest the vertical; in walking as well as in conformation he approaches nearest to the figure and gait of man. In the Hylo- bates and Laniscus the arms are of sufficient length to enable them to touch the plane of motion with the fingers and assist them in walking; this is resorted to whenever the centre of gravity falls anterior to the base of support formed by the hind extremities. The Lemurs are more decidedly quadrupeds ; the large arc described by the spine, directed with its concavity downwards ; the lengthened horizontal direction of the face to the direc- tion of the scapular and cotyloid articulations, contribute to the prone position of the Lemurs. Some of the tribe, as the Lemur tardigradus, are denominated Sloths from their proverbially slow progression. Although the Ourangs have the advantage over other Quadrumana, of walk- ing erect, and having the hands and arms free for prehension and great variety of action, such as using a club for defence or assault ; yet the Gibbons outstrip the Ourangs in the velocity of their progression, and in their power of swinging and projecting themselves from tree to tree with extraordinary velocity. According to Duvaucel, the Hylobates agilis can launch itself from bough to bough at the distance of forty feet asunder, apparently without effort or fatigue. Martin relates, that " a live bird being- set at liberty in the presence of a female Hylo- bates agilis, she marked its flight, made a long swing to a distant branch, caught the bird with one hand in her passage, and at- tained the branch with her other hand, her aim both at the bird and the branch being as successful as if one object only had gamed her attention." The addition of a long and flexible tail in the Cercopithecus, Semno- pithecus, and several other species, gives a fifth organ of prehension which is employed to as- sist them in a variety of motions. The walk, trot, and gallop of the Quadrumana are per- formed upon their four extremities on the same principles as those of quadrupeds in general, but as plantigrade bipeds their locomotion is accomplished like that of man. Sect. V. Man.—The locomotion of man is that of a plantigrade biped. When the '* System Auat. dos Animaux. body is erect and the face inclined at a small angle above the horizontal plane, the head is exactly balanced on the atlas, and its weight is transferred to the latter with the least expen- diture of muscular action : its axis of motion is bisected by a vertical line passing through its centre of gravity when it is in equilibrio upon the atlas : in every other position of the head the expenditure of muscular action is increased. It has been observed by Daubenton, that, when in the position of a quadruped, man is obliged to elevate the head above the axis of the ver- tebral column, in order to see directly for- wards; and in depressing the head to the earth, the position of the occipito-atlantal arti- culation prevents the jaws reaching the ground. The movements of the head on the atlas are restricted to one plane, namely, the vertical; but its articulation with the dentata permits a horizontal motion through a large arc of a circle ; the head cannot turn without the atlas, nor the atlas without the head ; on the con- trary, the atlas and dentata revolve upon each other in opposite directions. By means of these two joints, whose axes of motion are at right angles to each other, the head enjoys a considerable range both in the vertical and horizontal planes. The vertebral column.—The office of this complex structure is purely mechanical. The flexibility of the spine is due to the twenty-four joints which divide its length, and the interposi- tion of the elastic,intervertebral, fibrous tissues. It is upon the elasticity and quantity of the latter that the flexibility of the vertebral column de- pends. The mean proportions of the heights of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar intervertebral elastic tissues to that of the bodies of the ver- tebrae are estimated by Weber as follows : MM. Heights of cervical vertebrae , 95.85 Dorsal „ , 242.95 Lumbar „ , 135.95 M.M. Heights of intervertebral tissues. . Cervical „ . 20.70 Dorsal „ 34.90 Lumbar „ . 42.85 and their mean diameters, MM. 15. 25.3 28.0 And, admitting their breadth to be equal to their thickness, which is near the truth, their tranverse sections will be as the squares of the breadths, or as 225, 640, 784. Hence, if the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar portions are curved with equal force, their angles of flexion due to their elasticity will be in the following pro- portions : /J20\2 . /3jL9y . /42.8\2 __ \225/ ' \640 / " \784 / 846 : 297 : 298 that is, the angle of flexion of the dorsal and lumbar portions, notwithstanding their unequal lengths, are nearly equal, whilst the angle of the cervical portion, though of much less