553 MYRIAPODA. Fig. 317. The structure of the duct and of its numerous ovisacs is best seen in those specimens that have not yet arrived at maturity, or in those which have just deposited one laying of eggs. In these individuals the oviduct, to within a short distance of its division into two outlets, is studded with minute ovisacs, each tilled with the rudiments of its minute ovum. Its ge- neral appearance in a female, that has recently deposited its eggs, is completely botruoidal, very like the ovary of Birds, some ova being always fully developed, and ready to pass into the oviduct, while others are in various stages of developement, many of which are imper- ceptible except with the aid of a powerful lens. But the most remarkable condition of the female organs in the Julida? is their double vaginal outlet, as in Crustacea, although the oviduct itself is a single tube until near its termination, where it is divided into two short canals, which from a slight opacity at their base, where they join the single duct, appear, when seen by transmitted light, to be separated from it by a valve or duplicature of the lining mucous membrane. The vaginal orifices are simply two nipple-shaped portions of the tegu- ment, with somewhat oval apertures sur- rounded by a corneous ring, from which is developed a circle of minute hairs. Thev are situated on the under surface of the fourth segment of the body, and correspond in posi- tion to the insertion of the legs in the third segment. Ova.—We bave already seen from Mr. New- port's description of the female generative system of Julus, that the ova are formed in separate ovisacs, from which they issue com- pletely constituted eggs, into the cavity of the ovarium or common duct, through which they are expelled from the body after impregnation ; and we now proceed to lay before the reader the important results of the investigations of that distinguished anatomist relative to the struc- ture of the ova themselves, and the progress of embryonic developement. The existence of the ovisacs in Julus as single isolated cap- sules on the exterior of the oviduct, in each of which a single egg is produced, is, Mr. Newport observes, a circumstance particularly favourable to a minute examination of the ovum in all its states, especially as ova are found at the same time in every stage of de- velopement. The smallest ovisacs appeared like very minute glandiform bodies, developed, as it were, immediately from the structure of the duct itself, and in these the rudiments of the future egg had already begun to be pro- duced. The smallest rudiments of eggs ex- amined were of an elongated shape, and as yet not more than three, or at most four blood- globules in diameter. They appeared already to have distinct parietes, and to be filled with very minute graniform cells of a uniform size, slightly opaque, and of a yellow colour. The diameter of these cells, as nearly as could be ascertained by direct comparison, was equal to about one-third of that of a blood-globule. In the midst of these cells there was a larger but much more delicate structure of a circular form and equal in size to about two of the cells, but whether this was the germinal vesicle or its macula could not be determined. Other ovi- sacs twice the size of the foregoing were filled with similar contents, and from the opacity and yellow colour of the graniform cells, it was evident that they constituted the yelk in one of its earliest stages. At a later period both the yelk and its including vesicle are in- closed in a distinct membrane—the membrana vitelli, and before its escape into the oviduct all the parts of a perfect egg, namely, the yelk, the germinal vesicle with its macula, the mem- brana vitelli, the albumen, and likewise the shell lined by the membrana externa or chorion, are completely formed. Evolution of the embruo.—The develope- ment of the young Julus Mr. Newport di- vides into several distinct and well-marked pe- riods, during each of which phenomena are pre- sented of the utmost interest, both to the phy- siologist and in an entomological point of view. The first period extends from the deposition of the egg to the gradual bursting of the shell, and exposure of the embryo within it, occu- pying the space of twenty-five entire days, during which the egg acquires a sensible in- crease of bulk. On the nineteenth day there was a complete alteration in its form; it was more obtuse at both ends, and had become much larger, and the outline of the embryo, coiled up within the shell and nearly filling the whole interior, was very distinct, although, as yet, there were no rudiments of limbs or even of a division of the body into distinct segments. On the fol- lowing day, the twentieth, the outline of the embryo was more apparent, and on its concave or ventral surface there were faint traces of a di- vision of the body into six segments (fig. 317*). Up to this period Mr. Newport was unable to detect any funis or umbilical cord attached to the embryo, although, in conse- quence of Rathke's observations in Crustacea, such a structure was particularly sought for, the whole body still appearing to be formed of cells of different sizes. From this time the egg be- came every day larger until the twenty-fifth day, when it was greatly distended and began to assume a kidney-shaped appearance, and commenced bursting longitudinally in the me- dian line of the dorsal surface, the back of the soft and perfectly white embryo gradually pressing through the opening. In the second period of developement the embryo is exposed to a" new medium, and perhaps derives the means of its further growth from external sources, although it is still enve- loped in the foetal membranes and retains its connection with the shell. The liberation of the embryo is a remarkably slow process as compared with the escape of other animals from the egg. In Mr. New- port's observations, from ten to twelve hours r * T^S l?d the. succec(linS figures arc copied from Mr. Newport's paper, before quoted. The objects have been magnified twenty-five diameters