NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Actions.) .590 glosso-pharyngeal, which are freely distributed upon the mucous surface of the pharynx. This stimulus causes a change in the medulla ob- longata, in which those nerves are implanted, and that change is propagated thence by the pharyngeal blanches of the vagus to the mus- cles which contract the pharynx in the act of deglutition. In such an action the change in the nerves by which the muscular contraction is excited must take place in a two-fold direction,—first, from the circumference to the centre, from the point of application of the stimulus to that at which the nerves become implanted in the centre; and, secondly, from centre to circum- ference, from the point at which the stimulus falls upon the centre to that where the nervous fibres mingle themselves with the muscles of the part to be moved. The stimulus, which is incident upon the nervous centre, is said to be reflected by it to the muscular textures, the immediate agents of the required movement. Hence Dr. Marshall Hall has proposed to dis- tinguish a special system of incident and reflex nerves, or of excilo-motory nerves, the former being excitor, the latter motor. This distinc- tion, considered anatomically, is as yet quite hypothetical, for we have no unequivocal proof that the nerves of sensation and volition, which in their ordinary mode of action are afferent and efferent as regards the brain, may not be competent by the relation which they must necessarily bear to the spinal cord, to perform the actions which are thus assigned to a dis- tinct system. The determination of this point depends more upon the solution of certain pro- blems respecting the anatomical constitution of the nervous centres, than upon any purely physiological experiments. It will be made the subject of careful examination at a subse- quent part of this article. The great peculiarity of this class of nervous actions is their independence of the mind. An act of the mind forms no necessary part of their mechanism. At the same time there are certain of them which do not take place without the mind being conscious of the change. The act of deglutition above referred to, although quite independent of the mind, does not generally take place without being felt. But the change in the pupil, consequent upon the stimulus of light acting through reflex nerves upon the iris, is not at all perceived by the individual, and is therefore in every respect independent of mental change. Let it be remembered, then, that there are some physical nervous actions which the mind is not conscious of, and others of which the mind will always, or at least generally, take cognizance. We may conclude this brief reference to nervous actions by the following classification of them:— Psychical or mental nervous actions:— Actions of perception. Actions of emotion. Actions of volition. Physical nervous actions :— Actions from a physical change originating in the nervous centre; as in disease. Reflex actions— «, with consciousness. b, without consciousness. Anatomical subdivision of the nervous sys- tem.—The nervous centres, as they are found in the Vertebrate series, are distinguished as the brain, or encephalon, the spinal cord (medulla spinalis), the ganglions. In the lnvertebrata, the centres all bear the anatomical characters of ganglions, although, doubtless, they present some analogy in office to those specially distin- guished among Vertebrata. Their arrangement vanes considerably according to the differences of form of the various invertebrate classes. The brain and spinal cord, and the system of nerves connected with them, constitute the cerebrospinal portion of the nervous system, which Bichat distinguished as the nei~vous sys- tem of animal life, a distinction which, as it was dependent on his untenable hypothesis of the two lives, ought now to be discarded. The only subdivision of the nervous system which can be conveniently adopted must rest upon the basis of anatomy. There is not a sufficient distinctness of function in different portions of the nervous system to justify the separation of them on physiological grounds. There are very numerous ganglions connected with the cerebrospinal system. These are the ganglions on the posterior roots of spinal nerves, the ganglion of the fifth pair, those of the glosso-pharyngeal, and of the vagus. They are conveniently distinguished as cerebrospinal gunglions. A large portion of the nervous system is made up entirely of ganglions, with their con- necting cords and nerves, which ramify in a plexiform manner among various internal viscera and upon the coats of bloodvessels. In the vertebrated animals, where it is highly developed, it is disposed as a chain of ganglia on each side of the spine, and at the base of the skull, near the foramina, through which the spinal and encephalic nerves pass out; and at all these situations it forms a very intimate connexion with the nerves of the brain and spinal cord. This portion of the nervous system exhibits many peculiarities referable to its composition, its mode of arrangement, and its connexion with the organs among which its nerves ramify, which, at least, entitle it to be considered apart from the cerebro-spinal system; and many go so far as to affirm its entire independence of that system, and to assign to it a peculiar action, different from that of the nerves connected with the brain and spinal cord. Bichat calls it the nervous system of organic life. Previous to his time it was known as the great intercostal nerve (nervus intercostalis), the great sympathetic nerve (nervus sympathicus magnus), and now it is very commonly described under the latter name. The term visceral nerve has also been proposed for it. It has also been distinguished as the ganglionic system. It is difficult to find an unexceptionable name for it which does not involve the adoption of some theory respecting its function. On the whole, the terms sympathetic nerve and ganglionic system are those which appear liable to fewest objections, although by