?22s PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. all the anatomical conditions necessary for the developement of acts of sensation and volition. It thus appears that Flourens' views re- specting the office of the cerebellum derive considerable support both from experiment and from anatomy. When we come to collect the evidence on this subject which has been fur- nished by the effects of disease, we obtain very little information of a satisfactory kind. A superficial lesion of either cerebellar hemi- sphere or of the median lobe does not cause paralysis, but may produce delirium or con- vulsions, as a superficial lesion of either ce- rebral hemisphere may; but a deep-seated lesion of the cerebellum involving the central white substance which is continued from the crus cerebelli causes hemiplegia on the oppo- site side. This similarity between the effects of cerebellar and of cerebral disease is a re- markable and highly interesting fact, but one which considerably increases the difficulty of obtaining from pathological phenomena any contribution to the solution of physiological questions. It may be explained thus:—the transverse fibres of the pons passing through the raesocephale would propagate to this segment the morbid influence of any deep-seated lesion of the cerebellum, and thus affect the adjacent pyramid, which again would affect the opposite half of the body just as if the morbid influence originated in the cerebral hemisphere. It is, then, this secondary affection of either pyra- midal body which obscures the proper signs referable to cerebellar lesion. A few cases, however, have been put on re- cord, in which a tottering gait, like that of a drunken man, and a defective power of co- ordination existed in connection with a diseased state of cerebellum. A striking instance of this occurred under my own observation: a young surgeon, who had recently received an appointment in the medical service of the army, was in attendance in the military hos- pitals at Chatham, preparatory to his nomina- tion to a regiment. It was observed that as he walked he staggered to so great a degree that he was suspected of drinking to excess, and was put under arrest on this account. It was soon, however, found that he was suffer- ing under symptoms of diseased brain, and he was sent up to town and placed under my care. I found that his principal symptom was extreme difficulty in the coordination of his movements, accompanied by a sense of gid- diness in the head. He could neither stand nor walk, yet there was no distinct paralysis, for while he was in the recumbent posture he could move about his limbs freely. After a time he became amaurotic and comatose. The post-mortem examination revealed softening of the left crus cerebri and a patch of yellow soft- ening on the corresponding restiform body: there was in addition a recent deposit of lymph at the base of the brain around the optic com- missure. I must now notice two other hypotheses as to the office of the cerebellum ; the first is that of Foville; the second that of Gall. Foville supposed that the cerebellum is the centre of sensation, " the focus of sensibility." The objections which appear fatal to this hypothesis are derived from anatomy and from patholo- gical observation. The cerebellum wants that general connection with sentient nerves, (direct as well as indirect,) which might be expected if it performed the office in question. Not one of the nerves of pure sense has any connection with it. Moreover the diseased states of cere- bellum do not give rise to any privation of sensibility such as might be expected where the centre of sensation was the part involved. The most celebrated view of the office of the cerebellum is that put forward by the distin- guished Gall. He supposed that the instinct of propagation has its seat in this organ, and therefore referred to it as the source of all sexual and generative impulses. Gall's view rests on two assumptions; first, that the instinct of generation or of reproduc- tion is " the most indispensable and most pow- erful of all the instincts ;" and, secondly, that great width of the occipital region of the skull and thickness of the back of the neck indicate great developement of the cerebellum. It is by reason of the assumed transcendant importance of the generative instinct that so large a portion of the encephalic mass (an eighth or ninth part of the whole) has been assigned by Gall to exercise an exclusive in- fluence over it. This first position taken by Gall seems to me untenable. Can we separate the sexual instinct from the emotions, from those especially which are clearly instinctive in their nature ? I ap- prehend not. The same part of the brain would probably exercise its influence upon all the emotional actions. But even if the sexual instinct were separable from the other instincts, it seems very questionable whether it is of that paramount importance as to need a separate organ of great magnitude, of complex structure, and of extensive connections with the rest of the cerebro-spinal centre. If we compare it with the instinct of self-preservation, as mani- fested in providing either for the wants of the body or for defence against assault, it certainly cannot be admitted to have a superior influence to this the most pressing of all. Yet, even to this instinct, a separate seat has not been assigned in the brain.* The second position which Gall assumes, * This argument was used, nearly totidem ver- bis, in Mr. Bowman's and my Physiology in discussing this subject. It and other objections to Gall's doctrine, which we made, have been criticised by Mr. Noble, of Manchester, a most zealous phrenologist, who, like many of that school, is impatient of the slowness of belief of those who do not completely embrace the opinions which he advocates. Mr. Noble seems to think that the existence of a surmise of Spurzheim's, of a single recorded observation of Dr. A. Combe, which led him to suggest that a certain large convo- lution, seen by him in the brain of a lady who had great fear of death, who evinced " perpetual anxiety about her own death," should be assigned as the seat of a faculty to be called " love of life," and some observations of Dr. Vimont, which Mr. No- ble does not value so much as the single observation