IRRITABILITY. 32 hatched without feathers, and of certain animals which are born blind; and in hybernation it is almost extinct. To ascertain the quantity of respiration in any given animal, with extreme minuteness, was a task of great difficulty. It was still more difficult to determine this problem, so as to represent the quantities of respiration in the different kinds, ages, and states of animals, in an accurate series of numbers. The changes induced in a given volume of air made the subject of experiment, by changes in the tem- perature and pressure of the atmosphere, and by variations in the height of the fluid of a pneumatic trough, which it is so difficult to appreciate minutely; the similar changes in- duced by the humidity of expired air, and by the heat of the animal itself, were so many and complicated, that it appeared almost im- possible to arrive at a precise result. These difficulties, in fine, were such as to lead one of the first chemists of the present day to give up some similar inquiries in despair. Fortunately I have been enabled to devise an apparatus which reduces this complex pro- blem to the utmost degree of simplicity. I now beg the indulgence of the reader whilst I give a detailed description of its construction and mode of operation. This apparatus, which I shall designate the pneumatometer, consists of a glass jar (Jig. 1» a, b,) inverted in a mercurial trough (c, d,) so grooved and excavated, as accurately to receive the lower rim of the jar and the lowest part of the tube (e, f, g,) and also to admit of the ani- mal which is made the subject of experiment, being withdrawn through the mercury. This jar communicates, by means of the bent tube {e,J\ g, //,) with the gauge (i, j,) which is in- serted into a larger tube (k, I,) containing water. A free communication between the jar and the external air is effected and cut off, at any time, by introducing and withdrawing the little bent tube (»?, n,) placing the finger upon the ex- tremity {in,) whilst the extremity («) is passed through the mercury. If the jar be of the capacity of one hun- dred cubic inches, the gauge is to contain ten, and to be graduated into cubic inches and tenths of a cubic inch ; so that each smallest division shall be the thousandth part of the whole contents of the jar. Attached to the same mercurial trough is placed a little apparatus (o, p,) termed an aerometer, and consisting of a glass ball (<>,) of the capacity of ten cubic inches, commu- nicating with a tube (p, 9,) bent at its upper part, of the capacity of one cubic inch, di- Fig. 1.