OPTIC NERVES. 763 appears slightly bent at the optic foramen, the convexity of the curvature being turned outwards, and it traverses the fibrous and vascular coats of the eye at a point not exactly corresponding to the axis of the organ, but a little inferior and internal to that imaginary line. Whilst in the orbit the optic nerve is com- pletely cylindrical, but a circular constriction indents it just before piercing the sclerotic. In this, its second stage, the optic nerve has still its neurilemmatous investment, and in ad- dition, a perfect sheath of fibrous membrane, derived from and clearly traceable to the dura mater; this latter covering of the nerve pos- sesses great strength and density; it is white and tough, and admits of ready separation from the proper neurilemma ; moreover, it becomes continuous with the sclerotic, as the nerve is perforating that tunic. ' In its course through the orbit the optic nerve is related to many of the important parts in that cavity ; on leaving the foramen opticum it is surrounded by the posterior attachments of the muscles of the eye, and afterwards proceeds forwards to its destination through the centre of the space which lias the recti for its limits. The nerve is here imbedded in a quantity of soft fat, from which it derives protection, and wherein other nerves and bloodvessels are immersed. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve (immediately after entering the orbit), the lenticular ganglion with its roots, and some of the ciliary nerves at their origin, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vessels in their first stage, intervene between the outer surface of the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle. Between the upper surface of the optic nerve and the superior rectus muscle, the superior division of the third nerve, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic artery and vein (in the second stage,) take their course; the vein being gene- rally placed farther forwards than the artery. Beneath the optic nerve, the inferior division of the third nerve is placed, and those twigs of the latter which are destined for the inferior and internal recti muscles separate the optic from the inferior rectus. To the inside of the optic nerve and upon a higher plane, the ophthalmic vessels in their third stage, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve are situated ; their position is rather above the upper edge of the internal rectus, but the branch of the third nerve which supplies that muscle separates it in part from the optic nerve. The ciliary nerves run from behind forwards. Closely approximated to the optic nerve, they appear mostly above the nerve and on its lower and external aspects, but nevertheless one or two of the ciliary branches of the nasal nerve, as well as one or more from the lenticular gan- glion, before piercing the sclerotic coat, gain, in general, the inner side of the optic nerve. The long and short ciliary arteries in their course to the globe of the eye are intimately related to^the optic nerve, some of the latter vessels appearing actually to twine around it in a spiral manner : and many of the muscular branches of the ophthalmic artery lie immersed in the surrounding adipose tissue, at no very great distance from the nerve in question. Communication with other nerves.—The optic nerves have no direct communication with the other cerebral nerves, but certain anatomists have traced filaments from the ganglionic system to them. Arnold (Icones nervorum Capitis, Tabula Sexta) has described and delineated two slender threads which run from the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion to the optic nerve, and Hirzel observed in several instances the same arrangement. Tiedemann has seen an excessively delicate filament from the lenticular ganglion accompanying the arteria centralis retina through the optic nerve : he has also discovered branches of the ciliary nerves taking the same course, and has even suc- ceeded in following them as far as the retina; and M. Ribes (Memoires de la Societe Medi- cate d'Emulation) has asserted, that a minute subdivision of the cavernous plexus extends along the arteria centralis retinas, being derived from that division of the plexus which accom- panies the ophthalmic artery. Organization.—The organization of the optic nerve is in many respects peculiar. Firstly. From the cliiasma to its distal extremity it is enveloped by a strong coating of neurilemma, and from the inner surface of this tunic a number of processes are detached which divide the interior of the envelope into longitudinal canals wherein the medullary substance is lodged ; the optic nerve is not therefore a mere bundle of nervous cords (the structure prevalent in other nerves), but it is "a cylinder of collected tubes." Secondly. From the optic foramen to the sclerotic a sheath of dura mater is super- added to the optic nerve, and since none of the other cerebral nerves possess a similar covering, it must be considered a special provision for the security of the second pair. Thirdly. The arteria centralis retinae runs through the centre of the optic nerve (an anatomical arrangement of exceedingly rare occurrence): and the pri- mitive fibres of the optic nerve evince a marked tendency to appear " varicose," a condition discovered by Ehrenberg, and considered by him and others peculiar to certain parts of the nervous system. Real origin.—Anatomists have entertained very conflicting views upon this interesting question, so that from time to time different parts of the human encephalon have been considered the true origin of the optic nerves. The older writers very generally believed that these nerves originate in the optic thalaini, as the names " thalami nervorum opticorum " still applied to the bodies in question suffi- ciently attest, and Eustachius, Varolius, Lieutaud, Haller, &c. supported this opinion. Others conceived that the nates (or anterior pair of the tubercula quadrigemina) are the principal source of the optic nerves; this was maintained by Ridley, Winslow, Zinn, Morgagni, Sanctorini, Girardi, Hildebrandt, Boyer, Bichat, and Scemmerring; and the same