MOTION. 477 lation at which the trunk and thorax are flexed upon each other ; J'and g, the centres of force of the anterior and posterior parts of the body ; when the body is curved preparatory to the leap, it takes the position u x b', and the centre of gravity will be at o ; when the body returns to its former position a x b, the two centres of force come in contact with the ground in ,/andg; the forces with which they strike the ground acting perpendicularly to a b, impart to the centre of gravity o a velocity in the same direction, but the reaction of the ground gives to the body two impulses equal and opposite to the forces d /'and e g ; the lines/' d and g e not passing through the centre of gravity o, one part only of the force raises the body above the ground, the other part of the force pro- duces a rotation of the body around the centre of gravity ; the force g e being much nearer the centre than/'rf, and their velocity of rota- tion being in the direct ratio of their distances from the point o, the motion produced by g e, being opposite to that of J'd, is destroyed by a part of the latter, and the remainder of J'd will give the body a rotatory motion in the direction of J'f It : by means of this motion the insect is enabled to reverse its position.* The larva: of insects are variously organized ; for example, that of the Tyrophaga casei, when preparing to leap, bends itself into a circle, bringing its head and tail in contact, and fixing its two mandibles in the cavities of its anal tubercles; it then contracts its body into an oblong figure, so that the two halves are parallel to each other. This being accom- plished, it suddenly unlocks its head, and ex- tends its body with such force, that the re- action of the surface on which it rests propels the body into the air to the distance of several inches. The leaping of fishes and serpents has been already mentioned in Section IV. Birds walk, run, and leap like Man. The Incessores and other short-legged Birds usually move on solids by a succession of leaps. In most quadrupeds the propelling force of the leap is produced by the extension of the posterior extremities alone. When a consi- derable elevation of the body is the object to be attained, the centre of gravity is, previously to the leap, thrown back and lowered by the flexion of the hip, knee, and ankle-joints of the hind legs ; the fore-legs are then raised from the ground by the extensor muscles of the trunk, the axis of which, before parallel to the horizon, is now inclined at a considerable angle to it. At this moment the extensor mus- cles of the posterior extremities are suddenly * According to Kirby and Spence (loco cit. vol. ii. p. 314), the elater makes a double movement pre- paratory to the leap, by first drawing out the spine from its sheath, making it re-enter, and then causing it to fly out with a spring in the moment of leaping. This, however, appears to be a very in- correct view of what takes place. Mr. Darwin does not consider that sufficient stress has been laid on the elasticity of the spine, and that the sudden spring of the elater could not have resulted from muscular contraction alone, without some me- chanical contrivance. (Journal of the Voyage of the Beagle, vol. iii. p. 35.) contracted, and the leg is extended with suffi- cient velocity to elevate the trunk of the animal above the ground. At the end of the leap, the anterior feet first reach the ground simul- taneously, and then the two hind feet in a similar manner; the head being brought be- tween the two fore-legs, in order to throw the centre of gravity as far back as possible. The direction of the force of propulsion depends on the position of the propelling legs, and on the angle of inclination of the trunk to the plane of motion ;—the intensity on the quantity of force impressed by the extension of the legs. In those quadrupeds which constantly move by a succession of leaps, the length of the posterior legs greatly exceeds that of the ante- rior ; but in those wherein the length of the four legs is nearly equal, the leap is attended with so gteat an expenditure of muscular action that it is only resorted to on particular occasions. Borelli* is of opinion that the power of leaping is greatest in those animals in which the extremities of the bones of the legs de- scribe (in proportion to their masses) arcs of greatest circles, because they must move with greater velocity in the same time ; in other words, that those animals which have the greatest relative length of the posterior legs leap to the greatest height. Nor does this mili- tate against the analysis of Straus, according to which we have seen that animals of the same kind which have the greatest length of leg occupy a proportionably longtime in springing. In the Bull-frog amongst the Batrachia, in the Kangaroo amongst the Marsupialia, and in the Jeiboa amongst the Rodentia, we find the greatest disproportion in the length of the ante- rior and posterior extremities ; the length of the latter predominating so greatly, that they walk and trot with difficulty; but when pursued, the Jerboa can leap nine feet at each step, and repeat these leaps so rapidly, that it is said the Cos- sacks, though mounted on the fleetest horses, cannot overtake them. The Kangaroo reposes on the hind legs and tail, which form a triangular base, leaving the arms free for prehension. In- dependently of the Jerboa, other Rodentia, such as the Hare and Rabbit, are also furnished with lengthened posterior extremities, by which they possess considerable power of springing. As the mass of animals increases in a greater ratio than the force of their muscular system, the large Proboscidiav are almost incapable of leaping, but the solidungulous Pachydermata are well organized for leaping, as well as many of the Ruminantia, such as the Deer and Ante- lope. In these two orders the lengthened cal- caneum and metatarsal bones contribute chiefly to assist the muscles in the spring. In the Carnivora,we find the ankle-joint possessing the same structure as in the Ruminantia and Pa- chydermata. The geometrical relation of their osseous and muscular systems is such as to confer on them great power in making a spring; that of the Tiger is well known. The leaping of the Cheiroptera and Quadrumana * Quo longiores sunt vectes extremi crurum, sail us majores fiunt. See Part. prim. Prop. 17o', p. 211.