MAIISUPIALIA. 264 teetli on each side of the lower jaw. The four posterior molars in each row are true, and bear four pyramidal cusps, excepting the last tooth in the upper jaw, which, as in Ph. Cookii, has only three cusps. In the upper jaw the space between the functional false molars and the in- cisors is occupied by two simple rudimentary teeth, the anterior representing the canine ; but being relatively smaller than in Ph. Cookii, the crowns of the two anterior incisors are rela- tively larger. In the lower jaw the sloping alveolar surface between the functional molars and large procumbent incisors is occupied, ac- cording to M. Fr. Cuvier, by two rudimentary minute teeth, as represented in the figure (fig. 88). I have not found any trace of these Fig. 88. Petaurus Taguanoides. in the two skulls of Pet. Taguanoides examined by me. In Ph. Cookii we have seen that there are three minute teeth in the correspond- ing space ; but these differences would not be sufficient ground to separate generically the two species if they were unaccompanied by modifications of other parts of the body. In Petaurus sciurcus and Petaurusjiaviveuter the dentition more nearly resembles that of Phalangista vulpina. In the upper jaw the functional molar series consists of five teeth on each side; the four hinder ones being, as in Pet. Taguanoides, true tuberculate molars, but diminishing more rapidly in size as they are placed further back in the jaw; the hinder tooth has three tubercles, the rest four; the apices seem to be naturally blunter than in Pet. Taguanoides. Between the functional premolar and the incisors there are three teeth, of which the Fig. 89. Petaurus flaviventer. representative of the canine is relatively much larger than in the Pet. Taguanoides; the first false molar is also larger and has two roots; the second, which is functional in Pet. Taguanoides, is here very small. The canine is more deve- loped ; the first incisor is also relatively larger and more produced. In the lower jaw the functional series of grinders consists of the four true tuberculate molars only, of which the last is relatively smaller, and the first of a more triangular form than in Pet. Taguanoides. The space between the tuberculate molars and the procumbent incisor is occupied by four small teeth, of which the one immediately anterior to the molars is large, compressed, pointed, and has two roots; the remaining three are rudi- mentary and have a single fang; the anterior of these corresponds to the one regarded as canine in the upper jaw. Among the species exhibiting this dental formula, viz. 3—3 1—1 canines Incisors 1—1 1—1 premo- lars 40, 3—3 , 4—4 ; molars 3—3 4—4 are Pet. sciureus, Pet. flaviventer, and Pet. mucrurus. The Pigmy Petaurist differs from the pre- ceding and larger species, in having the hairs of the tail distichous, or arranged in two regular lateral series like the barbs of a feather, and in having the spurious molars large and sharp-pointed; and the true molars bristled each with four acute cusps. This tendency in the dentition to the insectivorous character, with the modification of the tail, induced M. Desmarest to separate the Pigmy Petaurist from the rest of the species, and constitute a new sub-genus for its reception under the name of Acrobates.* To Mr. Waterhouse, however, is due the credit of having first pointed out that the Pigmy Petaurist had but three true molars on each side of each jaw instead of four. There seems, there- fore, to be better reason for accepting this sub- generic section, although we evidently perceive a transition to this condition in the small size of the hinder or fourth molars in the Sciurine Petaurist and its congeners. The description of the dentition of the Pigmy Petaurist in the Regne Animal, besides being defective in this remarkable particular, is not quite exact in other respects. In four adult specimens, two of which were males, and two females with young in the pouch, I find the fol- lowing dental formula to be constant (fig. 90). Incisors : canines . ; premo. 3—3 1 — 1 1 lars ?Z±; molars 3—: 36. 5—3 3—3 Fig. 90. Petaurus pigmceus, twice the natural size. The three quadricuspidategrinders of theupper jaw are preceded by three large premolars, each of which has two fangs, and a compressed triangular sharp-pointed crown, slightly but pro- * Axpoj, summits, @aivai, gradior, as frequenting the summits of trees.