977 PISCES. Fie. 511. Seeing, therefore, that the teeth of Fishes are derivations from pulps formed by the mucous lining of the mouth, it can be a matter of small astonishment to find that they can be developed in any part of the oral cavity where the necessities of a given species may require their presence, without relation to the jaws, with which alone they are connected in the highest races of Vertebrata and in the human subject. Accordingly in the class under consideration teeth are found attached to any or all of the following parts of the mouth and of the pha- rynx, viz. to the superior and inferior maxilla;, to the intermaxillary bones, to the palate bones, to the vomer, to the tongue, to the branchial arches, and to the superior and inferior pharyn- geal bones. The ichthyologist is therefore com- pelled to designate the different parts of the dental system according to the bones or other structures whereon they are situated, and distin- guishes intermaxillary teeth, maxillary teeth, mandibular teeth, vomerian teeth, palatine teeth, pterygoid teeth, lingual tPeth, branchial teeth, superior pharyngeal teeth, and inferior pha- ryngeal teeth, all of which may sometimes be coexistent, rendering the teeth of Fishes prodi- giously numerous. As relates to their form the denial organs offer a far greater number of varieties than those of other vertebrate animals. Sometimes they are so minute as only to be perceptible by the rough or scabrous surface which the parts of the mouth to which they are attached present. If of larger size, they pre- sent the appearance of a file or rasp (dents en rape), or they may have the shape of small cones or hooks thickly scattered over the pa- rietes of the mouth. Sometimes they are so fine and slender as to resemble the pile of velvet (dents en velours), or elongated, having the appearance of fine bristles. In Cit/tarina these bristle-shaped teeth are bifurcated to- wards their free extremities, or they may termi- nate in three diverging points, as in the anterior teeth of the genus Platax. Or the elongated cone may be compressed into a slender tren- chant plate, and this may be pointed, recurved, or even barbed like a fish-hook, as is the case in Trichiurus and some other Scomberoid Fishes; or it may be bent upon itself like a vol. nr. tenter hook, as in Pemelepterus and Go- niodorites. Sometimes the dental cones present a thickened base, giving them the appearance of the laniary teeth of carni- vorous quadrupeds, as is the case with the large teeth of the Pike; or they may be flattened into broad plates of hemi- spherical or other shapes, constituting a crushing apparatus adapted to bruise the food. A thin lamella, slightly concave like a finger nail, is the singular form of the tooth of an extinct species of cartilaginous fish named by Professor Owen Petalo- dus* Sometimes each tooth presents a flattened incisor crown deeply notched in the middle of the cutting edge, as in Sargus unmaculatus. Sometimes there is a double notch, rendering the margin of the tooth trilobate, as in Aplodactylus; or it may be divided into five lobes by a double notch on each side of the central and largest lobe, as in Boops. In the great Barracuda pike (Sphyrtena) the crown of both the large and small lamelliform teeth is prolonged into a sharp point, closely resembling a lancet. A similarly shaped pier- cing and cutting tooth is in many of the Sharks furnished with one or more accessory cusps at its base, and the cutting margins of the tooth are frequently notched, serrated, or crenated. Prismatic teeth with three sides are fixed to the jaws of Myletes; and in some instances, as in Scarus, they assume the shape of four-sided prisms. The teeth of Fishesf present greater diversity in their mode as well as in their place of attach- ment than is observable in any other class of animals. In a few instances they are im- planted in sockets, to which they are attached only by the surrounding soft parts, as, e. g. the rostral teeth of the Saw-fish (Pristis). Some have their hollow base supported, like the claws of the feline tribes, upon bony pro- minences which rise from the base of the socket; the incisors of the File-fish ( Batistes) afford this curious example of a double gom- phosis, the jaw and the tooth reciprocally receiving and being received by each other. The teeth of Sphyrtena, Acanthurm, Dic- tyodus, &c. are examples of the ordinary im- plantation in sockets with the addition of a slight anchylosis between the base of tlie fully formed tooth and the parietes of the alveolar cavity. But by far the most common mode of attachment of fully formed teeth is by a con- tinuous ossification between the dental substance and the jaw, the transition being gradual from the dental to the osseous tissue. The tooth prior to its anchylosis is connected by ligamen- tous substance, either to a plain surface, an eminence, or a shallow depression in the bone. Sometimes not the end, but one side of the base of the tooth is attached by anchylosis to the alveolar border of the jaw; it might be supposed that in this case the crowns of the * Owen, Odontography, p. 2. t Owen, loc. cit. 3 R