OPTIC NERVES. Plaited optic nerve. The optic nerve in some animals exhibits a peculiar plaited appearance; this condition occurs in greatest perfection in certain fishes, and in many birds a somewhat similar organi- zation may be detected, though not at all so perfectly as in the fish tribes. When the plaiting prevails in perfection, the nerve consists essentially of a thin membrane folded on itself exactly like a closed fan or a plaited frill; but the arrangement referred to is not at first sight apparent, particularly if the nerve be inspected in that part of its course only which is external to the cranial cavity, for there the neurilema is so thick, dense, and tough, that a correct estimate of the disposition of the nervous structure cannot be formed until this investment has been removed. Deprived of its neurilema, the nerve seems to consist of a number of parallel lamina? placed in juxta-position ; on closer examination these lamina? turn out to be continuous with each other at their edges, and by a little care the nerve can be unfolded into a membrane of which the breadth is proportional to the num- ber and depth of the original laminae. When the plaited condition is perfect,it pre- vails along the entire length of the optic nerve, becoming manifest at its cerebral attachment, and continuing to the eye-ball; even die retina seems to participate in the same disposition, as folds or plaits are observable on the surface of that nervous expansion ; and in certain fish the optic lobes themselves present a similar organization, for the walls of the cavities which these tubercles contain are in some instances covered with lamina?. The plaiting must be considered an essential attribute of the nervous substance and totally independent of the neurilematous investment, for this disposition of the nervous material occurs occasionally in the optic lobes and re- tina, structures which are devoid of neurilema. ( 425.) 425. Plaited optic nerve of a Mullet. ( From nature. J a, optic nerve deprived of neurilema, exhibiting the plaited disposition ; b, sclerotic coat of ihe eye through which the nerve is passing •, c, V*f^gfc*f$ ijST retina, in which the « iktvc tcnninut.es. Laminated optic, nerve. In certain birds the optic nerve is laminated and bears a close resemblance to the plaited condition just described. In these birds a careful examination of the nerve is required for the discovery of its true texture, for the neurilema (endowed with un- common strength) adheres so firmly to the nervous structure that without a careful dis- section its lamina? elude observation. When viewed on one side the nerve seems perfectly smooth, but on the opposite side numerous lamina may be distinctly observed ; these are parallel to each other, and run along the nerve in the longitudinal direction: they are of considerable depth and variable thick- ness; they are applied closely to each other, being separated by thin processes of neuri- lema only, and altogether (their straight course excepted) this arrangement bears a striking similarity to the disposition of the lamina? on the human cerebellum. A short section of the nerve divested of its neurilema is not unlike a closed book, the lamina? representing the leaves, and the opposite smooth surface of the nerve bearing a resemblance to the back and cover of the book. The laminated optic nerve of the bird does not admit of being unfolded into a flat membrane, a proceeding which can be accomplished with care in the plaited optic nerve of the fish: and in birds the laminated structure occurs in that part of the nerve only which is in front of the chiasma; in its cerebral extremity no such organization prevails. (Fig. 426.) Fie. 426. Laminated optic nerve of an Eagle. (From nature.) a, chiasma ; b, optic nerve divested of neurilema and exhibiting laminae on one surface ; c, sclerotic coat. Desmoulins, who has paid the greatest at- tention to these varieties, inferred as the result of his extensive researches, that the plaited arrangement of the optic nerve in fish, and its laminated condition in birds bears pro- portion to the perfection of vision in the ani- mals under consideration; for those birds which are endowed with the most powerful piercing sight possess the laminated structure at a maximum of developement. For example, birds of prey, such as the eagle, the falcon, and the kite, evince an acuteness of this faculty truly surprising; from heights in the atmos- phere, at which they are themselves almost invisible, they discover their prey on the ground and pounce on it with the most unerring cer- tainty, whilst at the trifling distance of a few yards other animals recognise such objects with difficulty: now birds of this class afford the most perfect specimens of the laminated optic nerve. It is further stated on the same autho- rity that birds which at short distances possess remarkably quick and accurate powers of vision (more especially when in such cases this faculty is exercised in media of different degrees of density) are also provided with laminated optic nerves, and that most fish in which the plaited optic nerves occur are of pre- dacious habits, and consequently require pow- erful organs of vision just as the birds of like propensities. The writer has examined the optic nerves in the stork, kingfisher, eagle, &c, and in them, as well as in all the fishes which have fallen within his reach, his dissections have amply verified the anatomical descriptions given by Desmoulins. It is difficult to explain the superior sensi- bility supposed to be thus conferred on the