423 MOTION. to the cubic contents of the body, endows this insect with great powers of suspension in the air and with great velocity of motion. The triangular figure of the vvings prevents the un- steady undulating progression observed in the diurnal Lepidoptera, and the flight is conse- quently more direct as well as more rapid. The wings of many of the moths are of considerable dimensions. The largest male Atlas moth in the collection at the British Museum measures 5^ inches on each side, estimated from their axes of motion to the apices of the wings, pre- senting a total area of 26ยง square inches. If the force of the muscles acting on the wings is proportional to their areas, they must possess the most extensive power of flight. TheBombyx mori, or silk-worm moth, is stated to travel more than a hundred miles a day.* The Neuroptmi have a separate set of muscles appropriated to the movements of each wing, which being detached can be moved either synchronously or independently of each other: the muscles also are actually inserted into the wing, instead of moving them indirectly, as in other orders of insects. The surfaces of the four wings of the Libellulae, or dragon-flies, are nearly equal in most species; they are always expanded in repose, and ex- tended horizontally at right angles to the axis of the body, so that they take flight in an in- stant. Their figure is lanceolated. The ratio of the united areas of the four wings to the weight of the body is greater than in the Cole- optera and Ilymenoptera, and the muscular power is proportionally augmented. The arti- culation of the wings being situated above the centre of gravity keeps them steady in flight: their velocity is very great, exceeding that of the Swallow. Leeuwenhoek once observed one of this tribe in a menagerie 200 feet long, chased by a swallow ; the insect flew with such velocity, and turned to the right and left in all directions so instantaneously, that the swallow, with all its powers of flight and tact in chasing insects, was unable to capture it, the insect always keeping about six feet in advance of the bird. The great length and surface of the wings of the Libellulae, and the power of the muscles acting on them, is such that they appear to be never tired of flying in quest of their prey. In a specimen of the ^.shna maculatissima, which weighed fourteen grains, the area of the anterior wing was 0.7324 in. the posterior 0.8988 in. and the area of the four wings 3.26408 square inches. The preponderance of surface in the posterior wing enables the Libel- lula to change the direction of their path of motion with great facility, and to capture their prey on the wing. Previously to taking flight, this TEshna exerts a vibratory movement with its wings; the oscillations are made in very minute arcs, and with great rapidity, producing a faint though distinct sound. The pitch indi- cates that the wings perform ninety-six vibrations in a second. On taking flight the wings oscil- late through larger arcs, with a less number of vibrations, the amount of which it is not easy * Lin. Trans, vol. iii. p. 40. to determine, and does not depend, as some distinguished entomologists have supposed, on their mutual friction. In a Triphavna pronuba, weighing 8.545 grains, the area of the anterior wings measured 0.6213, and that of the under wings 0.68 square inches, making the sum of the areas of the four wings 2.6026 square inches. In the ilymenoptera the ratio of the areas of the four wings to the weight of the insect is less than in the Neuroptera, and they are consequently obliged to make a greater number of strokes in the same inter- val of time in order to suspend themselves in the air. The areas of the upper are greater than those of the under wings. When ex- panded they are retained in the same place, and are linked together by means of small hooks, so that the upper and under wings act simultaneously and with greater power. A humble bee, which weighed 6.2 grains, had wings the sum of whose areas measured 0.366 of a square inch, or rather more than 5'5th of a square inch to each grain weight of the body. Bees are not only celebrated for the geo- metry displayed in the structure of their cells, but also for the precision with which they re- turn to their homes by the shortest path or in a straight line. The collectors of honey make use of this fact to discover their nests. Having captured two of these insects, they separate them some yards from each other, and on setting them free, ascertain with an instrument the angles respectively made by the lines of their flight with that between the points of their de- parture, then the point where the two lines of direction intersect each other indicates the posi- tion of the nest. The humble bee, wasp, and hornet fly with great force, but owing to the weight of their bodies, compared with the areas of their wings, cannot fly with much speed against a strong wind, so that a person might easily outstrip them by running in the same direction against the wind. When disturbed, or before leaving their abode, they wheel round the spot in a large circle, and then fly off at a tangent to some part of the curve. The Ichneumons are provided with a far greater expansion of wing, in proportion to their weight, than the Bees, and can consequently sustain themselves in the air with less expenditure of muscular action. In a species of ichneumon allied to Ophion luteus, which weighed 0.5 gr. the areas of the anterior wing measured 0.0832 in. the poste- rior 0.0480 in. the sum of the two wings = 0.1322 in. and that of the four = 0.2644 in. The Diptera are furnished with only two wings, which when in repose lie directed obliquely backwards upon the abdomen; their figure is nearly that of an ellipse, and their areas are ample when compared to the weight of their bodies. Three examples of MusctB vo- mitories for instance were found to weigh 2.4375 grains, which gives for the mean weight of each 0.8025 gr. and the mean areas of both wings were found to be from -^th to tgth of a square inch. Instead of posterior wings they have poisers, the articulation of which to the thorax is placed more posteriorly than in the four-