935 PERITONEUM. point of the knife is properly lodged in the groove of the staff, and by the latter that it follows the groove fairly into the bladder. Some excellent instruments have been devised to prevent the occurrence of so serious an acci- dent, but to describe them here would be too wide a digression. The lithotomist is liable to commit other mistakes still in the same stage of the lateral operation. His incisions may fall short of the bladder altogether, leaving the prostate insuffi- ciently divided ; or he may, on the other hand, transfix the bladder by plunging his knife too deeply. The former error may lead to disap- pointment in extracting the stone, and to severe injury of the neighbouring parts in the attempt to do so; it admits, however, of correction if discovered in time, but the latter mistake must be irreparable. Occurrences such as these result from an imperfect knowledge of the depth of the perineum, and may be accounted for by the great variation in this respect which the region presents in different subjects. Du- puytren and Velpeau found the distance from the neck of the bladder to the integument of the perineum to vary in different cases to the extent of two inches and upwards, the disparity depending chiefly on the degree of obesity of the individual. The deep compartment of the anterior divi- sion of the perineum has claims upon the attention of the practical surgeon independent of lithotomy. Matter sometimes forms within this space, and from the contiguity of the rectum on the one hand, and of the urinary organs on the other, such collections produce most distressing symptoms. The triangular ligament of the urethra prevents the abscess from gaining the surface directly, so that at length it either bursts into the rectum or makes its way gradually behind the base of the liga- ment. The finger introduced into the gut affords satisfactory information as to the nature of such cases, and free incisions through the perineum are followed by the most marked relief. Effusions of urine from accidental ruptures of the urethra occur less frequently behind the triangular ligament than in front of it, for in the former situation the canal is so thoroughly protected by its deep position that contusions inflicted upon the surface of the region but rarely affect it. False passages from the forci- ble introduction of instruments take place in general anterior to the triangular ligament; but when the urethra gives way behind a stricture in consequence of violent expulsive efforts of the bladder, the urine sometimes escapes into the deep compartment of the perineum, and destructive consequences are sure to ensue unless counteracted by timely treatment. Prostatic diseases are attended by a train of symptoms which depend upon the sympathies of neighbouring organs. When the gland sup- purates (not an uncommon consequence of acute inflammation), the matter usually dis- charges itself by the urethra, the tough capsule determining its route; but at times the abscess bursts into the rectum, or it may even point in the perineum after passing behind the base of the triangular ligament. Bibliography.—The following authorities may be consulted with advantage, in addition to the various systems of descriptive anatomy. Abraham Colles, A treatise on surgical anatomy, Dublin, 1811. James Wilson, A description of two muscles surrounding the membranous portion of the ure- thra, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. i, p. 175, London, 1812. C. A. Key, A short treatise on the section of the prostate gland in lithotomy, London, 1824. Alf. A. L. M. Velpeau, Traite d'anatomie chirur»i- cale, on anutomie des regions, Paris, 1826. Wil- liam Harqrave, A system of operative surgery, Dublin, 1831. Ph. Fred. Blandin, Traite d'anato- mie topographique ou anatomie des regions, Paris, 1834. J. F. Malqaigne, Manuel de medecine ope- ratoire, Paris, 1834. G. J. Guthrie, On two new muscles of the membranous portion of the urethra, Lond. Med. and Surg. Journ., 1833. Robert Har- rison, The surgical anatomy of the arteries of the human body, Dublin. Thomas Morton, The surgi- cal anatomv of the perineum, London, 1838. Alf. A. L. 31. Velpeau, Nouveaux elements de medecine operatoire, Paris, 1835. (Robert Mai/ne.) PERITONEUM.—The serous membrane of the abdomen, investing the inner surface of the abdominal walls and the outer surface of the abdominal viscera, and forming, by duplica- tion, sheets with both surfaces free, called omenta, mesenteries, suspensary ligaments, &c. The peritoneum of the male subject, in accordance with the rule of serous membranes, is a shut sac: in the peritoneum of the female the single exception to this rule is met with: here the Fallopian tubes open into the perito- neal cavity, and their mucous surface is conti- nuous, through their fimbriated extremities, with the serous surface of the peritoneum. Another circumstance that renders the female peritoneum peculiar amongst serous mem- branes is, that it is necessarily ruptured in the occurrence of a normal process, namely, in the escape of an ovum. The manner in which a single serous shut sac, by a kind of intus-susception, invests the external surface of viscera and the internal surface of the cavity in which they are con- tained, is admirably illustrated by the well- known comparison of a double night-cap. Where the cavity contains only a single viscus of a simple rounded form, as, for instance, the pericardium containing the heart, the com- parison is very apt. But when, as in the case of the abdomen, numerous viscera of irregular shape are contained in the cavity, the matter is much more complicated, and the resemblance, therefore, far less striking. Yet is the relation of the parietal part of the peritoneum to the visceral part, and of both to the abdominal vis- cera, essentially similar to that indicated in this well-known simile. The complexity of the peritoneal folds seems mainly to depend upon a strict adherence to such a simple relation, in the case of each of a great number of viscera, with their vessels, &c. contained in a single cavity. Each viscus, whatever its shape, whe- ther closely or loosely connected, must have its