845 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) in Man to a most rudimentary condition, being represented merely by the common cuticular covering of the body and its appen- dages, the hair and the nails, we shall find among the lower Vertebrata performing a much more important part in the animal economy, and occasionally entering largely into the construction of the organs of locomotion, re- placing and not unfrequently actually assuming the appearance and office of the endo-skeleton or proper osseous system. Examined in their remotest aspects, few textures indeed appear less allied, the osseous tissue and that of hairs, horns, feathers, and other cutaneous appen- dages ; nevertheless we doubt not that, on taking an enlarged view of the subject, it will not be difficult to prove that the two are absolutely interconvertible, both in use and even com- position, the cuticular skeleton being not unfre- quently had recourse to by nature to eke out and complete organs for the construction of winch the elements of the endo-skeleton would have been insufficient. Let any one who is only conversant with the composition of the skeleton of Man, or of the higher Vertebrata, examine that of a fish, more especially of one of the osseous Fishes, and he will soon perceive how impossible it is to point out anything analogous to a very considerable number of the parts composing it, in the bony framework even of those Reptiles that are most nearly approximated to Fishes in their general economy, or from the elements above enu- merated, various as they are, to build up those additional structures that render the osseous support of a fish's body so complicated and so aberrant in its composition from what is seen in any other class of Vertebrate animals. In the first place there are numerous bones forming a chain of osseous plates surrounding the inferior margin of the orbital cavity, which have been named by Cuvier "suborbital bones,"and by Geoffrey "jugal bones," although, having already seen that the jugal are represented elsewhere by an important element easily lden- fied, it is surely anomalous, to say the least of it, to find the same element thus multiplied and divided, more especially when in many of the hard-cheeked fishes, such as the Gurnard, these supplementary pieces become the largest bones of the face. The opercular bones, which form the gill flaps of the fish, are a set of bones which from their very office are evidently peculiar to the skeleton of a fish, and could scarcely have been suspected to have any analogue in animals totally destitute of gill openings, as are all other Vertebrata in their adult condition. These bones are four in number, and have received from writers on ichthyology the following names: 1st, the preoperculum* (Jig. 436, 30) which forms the basis supporting the other three; 2nd, the operculum f proper, (Jig. 436, 28) articulated to the former, on which it moves like a door on its hinge. Beneath the last- mentioned bone is a third, named the sub- * Tympanal bone (Geotfioy). Malleus (Spix). f Slapcal (Gcoffroy). Incus (Spix). operculum * (fig. 436, 32) and still lower down placed immediately behind the articulation of the lower jaw, a fourth, to which the name of intej-operculumf (fig. 436, 33) has been ap- plied. In the Chondropterygii this apparatus is entirely wanting. To explain the analogies of these pieces the most desperate theories have been broached by transcendental osteologists, the boldest and most celebrated of which is that of Geoffroy St. liilaire, that these opercular bones are the ossicuta auditus reproduced in an altered form after they were no longer required to form part of the auditory organ ; an opinion which has foun'd supporters even in this country notwithstanding the withering criticism of Cuvier, who, remarking upon this theory, very justly observes, that he has seen but little of such sudden reappearances of parts after they had been progressively made to disappear in the scale of animal life. Cuvier was com- pelled to regard the opercular bones as being superadded elements of the skeleton peculiar to Fishes, and having no representatives in other Vertebrata. De Blainville suggested that the pieces in question might be derived from a dismemberment of the lower jaw, by the detachment of the opercular elements from the ramus; but this hypothesis is refuted by the fact that in some Fishes, as the Lepidosterus, all the elements of the inferior maxilla are co- existent with the opercular apparatus. Pro- fessor Owen first suggested that they were mere derivations from the dermal skeleton, an opinion that seems every day to receive con- firmation. The supra-temporal bones of Fishes, a chain nearly resembling the sub-orbital, which in many species arches over the temporal fossa, belong to the same category, and cannot be said to resemble any bones found in other creatures. But the most anomalous of all the bones found in a fish's skeleton are those large and important ones that support the azygos fins placed along the mesian line of the body, con- stituting the dorsal, caudal, and anal fins. These bones consist of several distinct pieces, and frequently assume a very complex struc- ture : first, there is the fin ray itself, either simple, as in the dorsal fins of the Acantho- pterygii, or many-jointed, as in the fin rays of Malacopterygious fishes. These moreover are individually articulated with other pieces of a more decidedly osseous character, called the interspinous bones, which are imbedded in the flesh of the back, and might be, as indeed they have been, mistaken for appendages to the neuro-spines of the vertebrae. The hypothesis promulgated by Professor Grant upon this subject is as follows: " The spinous processes in Fishes give rise to other pieces. The spinous processes extending from the vertebrae of the fish when they have become largely developed themselves, give origin to new bones and afford us an illustration of a * Malleal \ Geoffroy). t I uveal ( Geoffroy ).. Stapes (Spix).