PAR VAGUM. 890 which Valentin* has termed plexus gastricus anterior et superior. Right vagus.—As the right vagus is entering the abdomen it sends numerous branches upon the posterior part of the termination of the oesophagus and of the cardiac extremity of the stomach. Part of these disappear in the mus- cular fibres of the oesophagus and stomach ; others anastomose with the branches of the left vagus, while others proceed downwards and to the left side upon the posterior surface of the large cul-de-sac of the stomach, sending fila- ments into the muscular coat, and also anas- tomosing with the filaments of the splenic plexus accompanying the vasa brevia. The right vagus also sends some branches upon the posterior surface of the stomach, to be distri- buted in that part of the organ, a few of which proceed as far as the large curvature, and course along it from left to right. It also sends two or three branches along the smaller curvature, which anastomose with the coronary plexus and branches of the left vagus. A considerable portion of the right vagus,—so large as generally to present the appearance of being the continuation of the trunk of the nerve,—proceeds from the posteiior surface of the cardiac region of the stomach, backwards and downwards to the left side of the cceliac axis, sending branches to the splenic, the coro- nary, and to the superior mesenteric plexuses, to the plexus surrounding the pancreatic branches of the splenic artery; and it ultimately termi- nates in the left semilunar ganglion. The branches of the right vagus running upon the posterior surface of the lower part of the oesophagus and cardiac orifice of the stomach have been termed the posterior cardiac plexus.f Dr. Remak has discovered numerous small ganglia upon ' the filaments of the cardiac nerves, as they are ramified upon the surface of the heart;! also upon some of the filaments of the pulmonary plexus, and upon some of the finer branches of the superior laryngeal nerve.§ These ganglia can scarcely be seen by the naked eye, and it is only when examined by the microscope that we can satisfactorily determine their nature. These ganglia appear to be placed upon the filaments of the sympa- thetic, conjoined with the branches of the vagi, and not upon those of the vagi. According to Volkmann and Bidder the vagus nerve contains, in all vertebrated animals, a greater number of sympathetic than cerebro- spinal filaments; and this preponderance of the sympathetic over the cerebro-spinal is more marked in the lower than in the higher verte- brata. This remark is in conformity with the observations of E. H. Weber upon the relative size of the vagus and sympathetic in the diffe- rent families of the vertebrata, from which it appears that in the lower vertebrata the vagus * Opus cit. S. 503. t Many anatomists describe the branches given off by both vagi near the cardiac orifice of the stomach as forming a single cardiac plexus, the larger portion of which is formed by the right vagus. | Casper's Wochenschrift fur die gesatnmte Heil- kunde den 9ten Marz, 1839. § Medicinischc Zcitung. Berlin, 8 Jan. 1840. increases, the sympathetic diminishes, in size. The branches of the vagus distributed in the oesophagus, heart, lungs, stomach, liver, and gills, are chiefly composed of sympathetic filaments, while the recurrent one of the motor branches is chiefly composed of cerebro-spinal filaments.* Connection of the vagus and spinal accessory. We have seen that, as the vagus and accessory emerge from the foramen lacerum posterius, the internal branch of the accessory joins itself to the vagus, and that while part of its filaments go to assist in forming the superior pharyngeal branch of the vagus, the rest pro- ceed downwards with the trunk of the vagus, and become incorporated with it. Bischoff states-): that he has not been able to trace the filaments of the accessory into any of the branches of the vagus except the pharyngeal, while BendzJ has beeu more successful. He states that the portion of the accessory which accompanies the vagus down the neck sends a few filaments to the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the vagus, and then joins itself to some of the posterior and external fibres of the vagus which do not pass through the ganglion. Below the ganglion these fibres form part of the trunk of the nerve, being enclosed in the same neurilema with those which pass through the ganglion. At the lower edge of the gan- glion, or sometimes a little lower, the accessory portion sends off some filaments which often join the external branch of the superior laryn- geal, but more frequently give twigs to the sterno-thyroid muscle. Other fibres of the accessory portion accompany the vagus into the thorax, and some of them assist in forming the recurrent nerve. Some small twigs from the accessory join the pulmonary and cardiac plex- uses ; the remainder accompany the vagus to the stomach, where they are lost. Mr. Spence states that those fibres of the vagus which do not pass through the superior ganglion are joined by the internal branch of the accessory; and that these together form a small flat band, which may be traced among the other fibres of the vagus to the lower part of the neck, where it is joined by some of the other fibres of the vagus which have passed through the ganglion, and seems to go principally to the formation of the recurrent nerve. We have seen that the vagi are distributed over a large space and upon many organs. They send branches to the external ear, to the pharynx, the larynx, the oesophagus, the trachea, the thyroid body, the heart, the lungs, the stomach; also to the liver, the spleen, the pancreas, the small intestines, and probably to other viscera of the abdomen. In their course they communicate very freely and extensively with the sympathetic^ and to a greater or less * Die Selbststandigkert des Sympathischen Ner- vensystems, by Bidder and Volkmann. Also the article Nervenphysiologie in Wagner'3 Handwor- terbuch der Physiologie, p. 584. t Oper. cit. p. 25. J Oper. cit. p. 20, 21, 23. § In many of the mammalia the cervical portion of the sympathetic joins the trunk of the vagus immediately below the inferiorganglion of the vagus.