PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 723E as regards the posterior pillars of the fornix, a direct ratio to each other. Lallemand relates a case in which the symp- toms were altogether limited to mental distur- bance, without any affection of the sensitive or motor powers, and the fornix and corpus callo- sum were found in a state of complete softening without discolouration. The fibres of the pons Varolii bring the cerebellar hemispheres into connection with each other, and with the vesicular matter of the mesocephale. Direct experiments on these fibres can yield no satisfactory result, because they are so intimately associated with the deep- er seated parts of the mesocephale, and with the nerves of the fifth pair and others, that it is impossible to irritate them in the living animal without affecting these parts likewise. The anatomy of the fibres, however, sufficiently in- dicates that they belong properly to a double cerebellum : for when the cerebellum becomes single, as in birds, reptiles, and fishes, no such fibres are found in the encephalon. Morbid lesion of the pons is productive of very serious results from the number and importance of the parts in its neighbourhood, the pyramids, the medulla oblongata, the quadrigeminal tuber- cles ; so that the symptoms it produces cannot be referred solely to the injury to the commis- sural fibres. It is very probable, however, that the crossed effect of deep-seated disease of either hemisphere of the cerebellum may be accounted for by the influence of these com- missural fibres upon the adjacent anterior py- ramids, which again would influence the oppo- site side of the spinal cord. Having thus brought to a termination our review of the physiology of the encephalon, I may now sum up the principal conclusions which our examination of this difficult and im- portant subject leads to; and these are embraced in the following propositions. 1. That the encephalon consists of a series of centres, each of which has its proper influ- ence in the exercise of the mental and bodily functions. These are the centre of intellectual actions, the centre of volition, the centre of sensation, the centre of the coordination of muscular movements, the centre of emotion, and the centre of respiration and of deglutition. 2. That the cerebral convolutions, with the fibres which connect them to the corpora striata and optic tbalami, constitute the centre of intel- lectual action. 3. That the centre of volition consists prima- rily of the corpora striata ; the inferior layers of-* the crura cerebri, which are continuous with the anterior pyramids, connect these gangliform bo- dies with the vesicular matter of the crura (locus niger), with the vesicular matter of the mesoce- phale, medulla oblongata, and with that of the spinal cord (the anterior horns), all of which with the corpora striata probably form the dynamic nervous matter in the impulses of volition for nerves implanted in them respectively. 4. The optic thalami, which by the extension of the olivary columns through the mesocephale and medulla oblongata to the posterior horns of the vesicular matter of the spinal cord, become continuous with those parts, constitute the centre of sensation, having implanted in it or connected with it less directly all the sentient nerves of the body. The nerves of the higher senses probably have each special ganglia or centres, which, however, are connected with the general centre ; as the olfactory lobes for smell; the retina, corpora geniculata, or corpora quadrigemina for vision; the vesicular matter in which the auditory nerves are implanted or the flocks of Reil for hearing; the ganglia of the fifth, glosso-pharyngeal, and posterior roots of spinal nerves for taste and touch. 5. The cerebellum constitutes the centre of the coordination of muscular movements, both in locomotion and in all the complicated move- ments of the frame. 6. The upper and posterior part of the me- socephale, including probably the greatest por- tion of the corpora quadrigemina, constitutes a special centre of actions referable to the emo- tions, among which may be reckoned sexual impulses. This centre connects itself with the medulla oblongata by the olivary columns, and through the same channel with the posterior horns of the spinal vesicular matter. 7. The medulla oblongata constitutes the centre of respiration and deglutition, but it cannot be considered as wholly devoted to these functions, inasmuch as it consists like- wise of continuations of the centres of volition, of sensation, and of emotion.* Of the functions of the ganglions.—That ganglions are small nervous centres we are bound to believe, from the existence in them of a considerable quantity of vesicular matter min- gled with fibrous matter. And the views which we have already expressed respecting the dy- namic character of the vesicular matter warrant the assumption that wherever a special accumu- lation of that form of nervous matter is found, there must be a special source of nervous power. * I have great pleasure in referring the reader to a very able essay on the physiology of the brain, (which I did not see until this article was at press,) in which very similar views to those expressed in the text are advocated, based on comparative ana- tomy. The author, who injustice to himself ought not to withhold his name, is evidently hampered by his adhesion to the excito-motory doctrines. I allude to the Review of Noble on the Brain in Dr. Forbes's Jo«*B*fl for October, 1846. I had already put forward similar opinions respecting the subdivision of the brain and the uses of its parts, in the section headed " An hypothesis of the action of the brain," in the article NERVOUS CENTRES, pub- lished in 1845, and subsequently republished in a volume entitled "The physiological and descrip- tive Anatomy of the Brain, &c." chap, xii., and the same views were expressed in Mr. Bowman's and my " Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man," part ii. 1845, p. 291 and p. 374. I may add that the review to which I refer contains a very complete and masterly exposition of the weakness of the present system of phrenology.