ABNORMAL AN Fig. 44. Lobules in a state of portal venous congestion, us seen ■ on the surface of tlie liver. The congested part oc- [| cupies the margins of the lobules, the uncongested portion their centres. After Kiernan. dullary and occupying the centres of the lo- bules." The causes of congestion are all such as tend to interfere with the circulation in the liver or with the general circulation ; for in- stance, impediment to the circulation of the blood through the capillaries of the lungs, diseases of the valves of the heart, aneurism, &c. A slighter degree of obstacle produces congestion of the hepatic veinsonly, the venous turgescence being limited by the lobular ve- nous plexus. If the obstruction be greater, the lobular venous plexus itself is congested; if the cause continue, the congestion extends through the interlobular fissures into the neigh- bouring lobules, and in a more advanced de- gree the congestion spreads itself throughout the whole of the lobules, and becomes general. From the liver the congestion extends to the alimentary canal, and gives rise to intestinal haemorrhages, haemorrhoids, ascites, &c. The variety of appearance in the vascularity of the lobules in congestion, and the constancy of its occurrence, have deceived those patholo- gists who maintain the existence of two sub- stances, and the difference of position and form of the congested and uncongested portions has given cause for the diversity of opinion with regard to its situation. For a perfect elucida- tion of these difficulties, physiology is indebted to the genius and perseverance of Kiernan. The mode in which the attention of this author was drawn to the subject forms part of the his- tory of hepatic congestion, and deserves to be detailed in his own words. "My attention," he observes, " was first directed to the anatomy of the liver by the study of the admirable works of M. Andral. In the first organs I examined I found the small branches of the hepatic veins ramifying exclusively in the red, and those of the portal vein in the yellow substance. I concluded that the liver was composed of two venous trees, a portal and an hepatic tree, the former having a cortex of yellow, the latter of red substance; and with M. Bouillaud, 1 thought it probable that the red substance was the organ MY OF THE LIVER. 185 of the function imagined by Bichat. I next ascertained the lobular structure, and concluded with Ferrein, that the red substance was me- dullary and the yellow cortical. Subsequent dissections, in which I found branches of both the portal and hepatic veins ramifying in the red substance, tended to unsettle the opinions I had formed respecting the anatomy and physio- logy of the two substances, and these opinions were finally overturned by the examination of a liver in which I found the branches of the portal vein alone ramifying in the red, and those of the hepatic veins in the yellow sub- stance. The only conclusion that could be drawn was, that the red colour resulted from congestion ; that it was medullary, occupying the centre of each lobule, when the hepatic", and cortical forming the circumference, when the portal vein was congested." Miiller, in the eleventh figure of plate 11 of his admirable work on the glands, has made a singular error with regard to the structure of the liver, and the arrangement of the ultimate biliary ducts. In the description of this figure he says, "Segmentum hepatis Sciuri junioris, microseopio simplici visum. Observantur fines ductuum biliferorum elongati, seu cylindri- Fig. 45. A part of Miiller's Uth figure of plate 11, which he considers to represent the distribution and arrange- ment of the ultimate biliary ducts. The liver in this section is in a state of hepatic venous conges- tion in the second stage. The congested portion corresponds generally with the central or hepatic part of the lobules, and the uncongested portion with the interlo/mlar fissures, in which are situated tike branches of the portal vein. a, A small branch of the portal vein giving off twigs to the various interlobular spaces. If these twigs be continued so as to unite with each other, the form of the lobules will be apparent; as at b, b. The angles formed by the giving off of the twigs from the portal vein are the interlobular spaces. c. Irregularly oval patches of uncongested lobules; the dark spot in the centre is an interlobular space, from which the portal vein radiates in various di- rections, sn as to surround the various lobules by whose conjunction the space is formed, d, d, Lo- bules entirely congested. In the centre of the lo- bules of this section I have marked the situation of the intralobular vein, although it may not be appa- rent, or but slightly so, in the congested liver. The small spaces, e, e, generally mistaken for intralo- bular veins in this form of congested liver, are in- terlobular spaces.