47 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT. joint, and there are good reasons for affirming that it is continued in a highly attenuated state over all the interarticular and incrusting carti- lages, giving them their smooth and secreting surfaces. (See Articulation.) The remain- der of its extent may be traced in the following manner: from the upper edge of the patella it ascends behind the common extensor tendon, and is loosely reflected upon the thigh-bone two or three inches above the trochlea in the extended position of the limb; from each side of the patella it passes backwards in a broad sheet, whose lower margin is attached to the edge of the semilunar cartilage, and thence goes to the tibia, while above it is loosely reflected on to the condyles of the os femoris, at the distance of nearly an inch from their cartila- ginous surfaces; from the back part of the con- dyles these two lateral portions pass into the fossa and join to cover the anterior surface of the crucial ligaments. From the lower edge of the patella the synovial membrane descends to cover the fatty body which is placed in that part of the joint, and it accompanies a small prolongation from that body which frequently passes across the joint to the lowest portion of the trochlea of the os femoris, forming what has been named the mucous ligament; this structure however is not always present. There is some discrepancy in the descrip- tions of different anatomists as to the alar ligaments, which are described as folds at the sides of the patella, and it seems altogether unnecessary to distinguish these lateral portions by name from the other parts of the synovial capsule. They are simply folds of the syno- vial membrane projecting into the articular cavity, and obviously destined to increase the extent of synovial surface for a greater amount of secretion. This membrane has a dense cel- lular tissue on its outer surface, by which it is connected firmly to the posterior surface of the extensor tendons and fascia lata. It possesses some degree of elasticity, but its chief power of accommodation to the motions of the joint is derived from its lax connection with sur- rounding parts. (c.) The mechanical functions of this joint, or the movements of which it is capable within certain limits, and the resistance which it op- poses to motion beyond those limits, are plainly deducible from a knowledge of the parts of which it is composed. To say that the knee is a hinge-joint with a slight arthrodial or sliding motion, gives a very faint idea of the complex problem which has been solved in its construc- tion : to procure firmness without the aid of bony processes interlocking with one another (as in the ankle and elbow); and yet to com- bine free power of flexion with impossibility of over-extension; to oppose large surfaces of bone to one another, so as to ensure stability in the erect posture, without making the joint synovial membrane of the knee-joint, to distend it by injecting some coagulating fluid, as size, through a hole bored through the centre of the patella.— Mechanik der menschlichen Gehwerkzeuge, p. 195. unsightly by its size, are some of the indica- tions most admirably fulfilled. In the straight or extended position of the leg, the joint is firmly locked so as to admit of no lateral or rotatory motion; the pointing of the toes in and out in this position is effected by moving the hip-joint. The portions of the condyles forming the segments of large circles are, during complete extension, applied to the tibia and form a broad surface of support; the patella is drawn to the upper or deepest part of the trochlea; and the lateral and crucial ligaments, being attached nearer to the poste- rior than to the anterior surface of the thigh- bone, are together with the posterior ligament put upon the stretch. If the curve of the arti- cular surfaces of the condyles had been uni- form, with the lateral and crucial ligaments fixed to the centre of that curve, the posterior ligament only could have acted to restrain the leg from being flexed forwards upon the thigh, and it would be quite insufficient for that pur- pose: whereas, by the present arrangement, the centre of motion being placed nearer to the posterior surface of the condyles, the lateral and crucial ligaments cooperate with the pos- terior in opposing a strong check to over- extension. In flexion the joint admits of mo- tion to the extent of about 140 degrees, when it is arrested by the crucial ligaments. During this movement the condyles offer a diminishing surface to the head of the tibia, and the semi- lunar cartilages have their ends brought closer together, so as to deepen the cavities for their reception: in extension, the reverse takes place, the semilunar cartilages are pressed out from betwixt the bones to their greatest extent. The adjustment of these fibro-cartilages during flexion is effected partly by their elastic power of resuming their shape when pressure is re- moved, and in some degree by the atmospheric pressure urging these moveable parts between the ends of the bones, to prevent the formation of a vacuity in the joint. During the motions of the knee, the patella undergoes important changes of relative position both with regard to the os femoris and the tibia; it plays over the whole extent of the trochlea, being drawn in extreme extension half its diameter above that pulley, whilst in extreme flexion it has moved through a quarter of a circle and is found at right angles with the os femoris, forming in that situation the surface which comes to the ground in kneeling, and so de- fends the joint from injury. In relation to the tibia, the patella always keeps the same dis- tance from the tubercle, being joined thereto by the ligamentum patella; but as the con- dyles recede during flexion, the patella follows them; so that a line passing over its anterior surface and that of the tubercle will, if pro- longed, reach the point of the great toe, though a similar line in the extended position will fall through the ankle-joint. The necessity for this advancing and receding movement of the pa- tella explains why it is a separate bone instead of forming a process of the tibia, as in the elbow-joint the olecranon forms a part of the ulna; and may also suggest the use of the