MICROSCOPE. 340 tion. Further, the optical disadvantages of such a plan would be considerable, for the nearer to the principal focus of the lens the object is brought, the more obliquely will the rays fall upon its surface, and the greater, therefore, will be the errors of aberration. This method of augmenting the power of a microscope has been adopted in spite of these disadvantages,* but it is not found to answer. Nevertheless, it is capable of being made of great utility, as we shall presently show, to a limited extent. A much more generally convenient method of varying the power of the microscope is to employ, as object-glasses, lenses of different foci; and thus, as the same distance between the image and the lens is constantly maintained, whilst that of the object varies, the number of times that the latter is amplified is changed in a like proportion. In whatever mode addi- tional amplification be obtained, two things must always result from the change; the por- tion of the surface of the object, of which an image can be formed, must be diminished, and the quantity of light spread over that image must be proportionably lessened. In the use of high magnifying powers, the compound microscope has the great advantage over the simple, that the object need not be brought to nearly the same proximity with the lens, and that much more of it can be seen with comfort at a time. The long focus and large aperture with which the eye-piece is usually made pre- vent even the prolonged use of the instrument from acting prejudicially on the visual powers, except in cases of peculiar tendency to nervous disorders of the eye. And as the power of the eye-piece as well as that of the object-glass can be raised, there are scarcely any limits to the magnifying power that may be obtained. Practically, however, there are limits, arising from the fact that, as the amplification is greater, the aberrations will be increased in even an augmented proportion; so that these com- pletely antagonise the benefit otherwise deri- vable from the employment of high powers. The aberrations can only be diminished by contracting the aperture of the object-glass; and this renders the image so dark that no real advantage is gained. Moreover, the imperfec- tions necessary to the best compound micro- scope, in which ordinary lenses are employed, are further augmented by the slightest error in the centering of the lenses, so that their axes do not coincide. In addition to the two lenses of which the compound microscope has been stated essen- tially to consist, another is usually introduced between the object-glass and the image formed by it. The ordinary purpose of this lens is to change the course of the rays in such a manner that the image may be formed of dimensions not too great for the whole of it to come within the range of the eye-piece, and consequently to allow more of the object to be seen at once. * We have seen a microscope, constructed by Chevalier, in which the tube was capable of being drawn ou> to the length of between three and four feet! Fig. 163. Section of Compound Microscope, with field-glass introduced. A A, the image which would be formed by the object-glass alone ; B B, the image formed by the interposition of the field-glass F F ; the whole of this image is within the range of vision of the eye-glass E E, and the field of view is therefore increased. Hence it is called the field-glass (fig. 163). It may be so adjusted, however, in regard to the eye-glass, as to correct its errors in almost a perfect degree; and it is now, therefore, usually considered as belonging to the ocu- lar end of the instrument,—the eye-glass and the field-lens being together termed the eye- piece. Various forms of this eye-piece have