147 LIFE. together with the facility with which it may be made the subject of experiment, render our knowlege of its character and conditions nearly complete. When we have analysed these groups of vital phenomena and satisfied ourselves of the conditions under which they occur, we are brought to the conclusion that for each a parti- cular organ or species of structure is appro- priated in the organized system, and that its action is dependent upon the excitation of its properties by agents extemal to it, just as in the inorganic world. This dependence of life upon external stimuli has been completely overlooked by the advocates of the vital prin- ciple ; and it is probably to Brown, with all his faults and absurdities, that we owe the first prominent enunciation of the fact. When these stimuli are withdrawn, vital action ceases ; though, under favourable conditions, vitality or the vital properties of the organism may be retained. (Sect. VI.) Every class of organs in the living body may be said to require its particular stimulus for the display of its properties. Thus, regarding the whole structure as a series of assimilating organs—capable of converting nutrient mate- rials into structures like their own, and of thus causing them to exhibit vital properties—we may say that the supply of these nutrient ma- terials in a fluid state is the stimulus to their action. Again, to the excretory organs the required stimulus is tbe presence of certain superabundant and therefore injurious elements in the nutritious fluid. To the action of the muscular system the excitement of innervation, or the application of a physical stimulus, is necessary. In all classes of living beings we find these functional changes performed under conditions which are essentially the same; and hence we are enabled to arrive at the laws which regulate each. These are not the only conditions required, however; for others of a still more general nature are constantly, and therefore impercepti- bly, operating. All vital actions, for example, require a certain amount of heat for their per- formance, and the amount varies in different cases. This is no more, however, than what we meet with in the inorganic world ; for many chemical and physical operations can only take place within certain limits of temperature, and these sometimes very circumscribed. The pre- sence of light, again, is essential to many others, especially in the vegetable kingdom ; but this, again, finds its parallel in the inorganic world, many chemical decompositions (which indeed bear a remarkable analogy with the changes which this agent produces in the green parts of plants when exposed to an atmosphere contain- ing carbonic acid) being due to its influence. And although, with regard to electricity as a vital stimulus, our absolute knowledge is still less, what we do know leads to the belief that it is an agent of at least as much importance in the vital economy as in the operations of in- organic nature. There is nothing, then, in the nature or con- ditions of vital actions considered individually, which need cause us to reason upon them in any other way than we do upon the phenomena of the inorganic world; and it is obviously unphilosophical to assume an agency which is not required to account for them. It must be recollected, too, that the onus probandi rests with those who make the assumption, and not with those who maintain the analogy in the character of vital phenomena to those of the universe at large. The assumption may be easily shown to be not only useless, but insuffi- cient to explain phenomena without calling to its aid the very principles which have been shown to be themselves competent. Thus, the physiologist who traces the operation of the vital principle in the function of secretion, is compelled to allow that, as by one principle so great a variety of products are eliminated by the various glands from one material, the diffe- rence in the results must be due to some difference in the structure of the organs respec- tively concerned. And it may then be fairly inquired of him, " If the difference in the glandular structure and action is capable of giving rise to so great a variety in the products, with the cooperation of this one vital principle, how can it be proved that this difference in the glandular structure and action may not be capa- ble of giving rise to the same result by itself, and without the aid of any such adjunct at all?"* A similar question might be put with regard to any other class of actions, in which, under the same general conditions, the results are modified by the peculiar characters of the instruments or organs respectively employed ; and, as a nega- tive reply must be given equally to all, it may be safely affirmed that no reasoning can deduce the doctrine of a vital principle from the phe- nomena of life separately considered. But the advocates of the doctrine rely much upon the peculiar adaptation of the various changes taking place in each being to the pur- poses of its existence ; and assume that this adaptation can only result from the control of a subordinate presiding agent constantly exercised over each. Here, again, we find such a doctrine not only unsupported by, but manifestly inconsistent with, the analogies of nature. No reflecting mind has any doubt that this earth and its inhabitants form a system, of which every part is perfectly adapted to the rest, (so that we might almost call it an or- ganised one, if the idea of a particular struc- ture were not involved in the term,) and of which all the actions and changes, however in appearance contrary, have one common ten- dency—the ultimate happiness of the creatures of Infinite Benevolence. The same may be said of it in regard to its relations with the system of which it forms a part; and probably of that system with regard to the universe in which it is but a-speck. So far as we can un- derstand the working of the laws by which that universe is governed, we see them all mutu- ally adapted to the same ends, whether we consider the welfare of the whole system, or of ourown comparatively insignificant planet, with * Prkhard on the Vital Principle, p. 100. L 2