764 OPTIC NERVES. views were still more powerfully advocated by Gall and Spurzheim, although they admitted that the nerves derive a reinforcement from the corpora geniculata externa and the tuber cmereum. Tiedemann (although fully aware that so?»e filaments of the optic nerves are traceable to the surface of the optic thalamus both in the fcetus and adult) yet believed the nates and corpora geniculata externa to be the true origins of the nerves under consideration, and in this opinion he was strengthened by the Report on the Memoir of Gall and Spurzheim, made to the Institute by Cuvier, Portal, Sabatier, and Pinel. According to Serres the tubercula quadri- gemina are the proper sources of the optic nerves, and by Leuret the second pair are traced to a triple cerebral attachment, viz. the nates, testes, and optic thalamus. It is proposed to examine in this place some of the grounds on which the foregoing opinions have been founded, and to this inquiry the aid of comparative anatomy is indispensably re- quisite. Fish.—In these animals the optic nerves are distinctly traceable to two of the ganglia which compose the diminutive brain. The ganglia in question are called " optic lobes," from being the principal sources of the nerves of vision ; they are hollow, and their position in the brain is between the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum (Jig. 407.) The optic lobes Fis. 407. Fig. 409. Brain of a Hake. ( From nature.) Side view seen from below. an, optic nerves; b, oblique crossing of ditto; c. ootic lobe of left side, being the chief source of the right optic nerve ; d d, two inferior lobes from which the nerves of vision in fishes generally derive roots. in fish very generally bear proportion to the size of the optic nerves (a proof of their physiological relations); and this proportion becomes par- ticularly apparent in fish which possess either unusually small organs of vision, as the Eel; or eyes of different dimensions, as the Pleuronectes. Fig. 408. Brain of an Eel. (After Solly.) Seen from above. a, optic nerve ; b b, op- tic lobes, which are small, being proportional to the size of the optic nerves. In many kinds of fish the optic nerves de- rive some of their filaments from a pair of Brain, of a Halibut. (From nature.) A, seen from above. B, seen from below. c, large optic nerve in both ; d, small optic nerve in both ; e, large optic lobe in both ; f, small optic lobe in both; gg, inferior lobes bearing the same proportion to each other in size that the optic lobes exhibit. N. B. The large optic nerves derive their roots from the large lobes, and the small optic nerves have their origin in the small lobes. tubercles placed on the under surface of the encephalon beneath the optic lobes (Jig. 410). Fig. 410. The writer does not pre- sume to decide whether these tubercles are really identical with the mam- millary eminences of the human brain as main- tained by Desmoulins and others; or with the tuber cinereum, as Cams, Spurzheim, &c. have contended: but that they have a share in the origin of the optic nerves is certain, since in those fish which have two optic nerves of un- equal size, the tubercles to which allusion is made Brain of a Ray. (From present corresponding nature.) Seen from below, differences in dimen- aa, optic nerves; 6, siong 4Q9 > chiasma : c c, interior r> i .i • lobes from which the op- REPTILES. — In this tic nerves derive some of claSS the Optic nerves theirroots; A/,optic lobes are derived from optic the principal sources of lobes very similar to the optic nerves. those in fish . they are two in number and interposed between the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum : their size is proportional to the developement of the optic nerves, and they are best seen at the upper or dorsal surface of the brain (fig. 411, c). Birds.—In birds the optic nerves originate chiefly in two lobes situated at the inferior and lateral aspect of the brain, and called in this class also " optic lobes." The size of these lobes is in proportion to that of the optic nerves and organs of vision, and they are therefore