PISCES. 988 through the exposed apertures. There is, more- over, another remarkable arrangement in the Lampreys, whereby, notwithstanding the sucto- rial character of their mouths, the members of this genus have the character of their respiratory apparatus approximated to that of other races of Fishes. This consists in the presence of a small tubular orifice situated in the middle of the back of the head, just in front of the eyes, which leads downwards into the pharynx (b,) into which it opens by the orifice c, so that water can enter by this passage while the mouth is kept immoveably fixed to the surface whereunto the Lamprey has attached itself. The respiratory system of Branchiostoma is highly curious in its arrangement. It may be said to consist of two portions, a hyoid appa- ratus of a very remarkable kind, and a respi- ratory or branchial sac enclosed by a series of thoracic ribs, both of which will require a par- ticular description before we proceed further with this part of our subject. Hyoid apparatus. — The hyoid apparatus supports the mouth and guards its entrance, the oral aperture, which is in the form of a lon- gitudinal slit, being bounded on each side by a series of hyoid cartilages, each of which consists of several pieces articulated together so as to form a continuous chain, which gradually diminishes in thickness towards its anterior extremity. To every one of these pieces is attached a cartilaginous arch composed of two cartilaginous stems, which are armed with delicate denticulations, and covered with a fine membrane, which is extended along the base of the posterior ones like a thin interdigital web, which forms the margin of the mouth. Branchial cavity.—This is situated behind the hyoid apparatus, and consists of a kind of thorax composed of upwards of a hundred transparent, cartilaginous, and hair-like arches, the upper extremities of which are fixed in two streaks of a soft white substance, which runs along on each side of the inferior surface of the chorda dorsalis on the sides of the inferior lon- gitudinal ligament. The inferior extremities of the ribs terminate in a more complicated manner. Each alternate rib bifurcates. The inferior branch on each side meets its fellow of the opposite side at an angle in the median line, while the superior branch likewise curves up and meets the corresponding division of its opposite, while the non-bifurcated ribs, which are shorter, terminate in a line witli the bifur- cation of the neighbouring pairs. There are, moreover, slender cross pieces joining the neighbouring ribs together, disposed in an alternating series like the joinings of stones in masonry. The heart is situated at the posterior extremity of the branchial sac be- tween its posterior extremity and the com- mencement of the liver; it consists, accord- ing to Costa, of two delicate cavities situated transversely above and a little to the right of the intestine. These cavities (" orecchiette") com- municate, and the blood passes from one to the other, being driven forward by rapid pulsa- tions. From the second cavity of the heart the blood is driven into the trunk of the bran- chial artery, which is situated between the in- testine and the point of attachment betweere the branchial ribs and the spinal column. The course of the blood is at first rapid and very distinct, owing to the size of the branchial artery being considerable; but as it runs for- wards, it expends itself in numerous spiral ves- sels, which, accompanying all the thoracic arches and their transverse attachments, thus present a considerable surface and constitute the bran- chiae of the fish. Finally, towards the anterior extremity of the respiratory cavity the branchial artery has become so much reduced in size as to be no longer distinguishable. In addition to the extensive surface furnished by the respiratory sac there are three vascular lamellae situated on each side of the fauces, to which Costa applies the name of opercular branchiae, believing them to be analogous to the branchiae attached to the opercula of the Stur- geon and other Fishes ; these receive their sup- ply of blood from an arterial trunk that sur- rounds the back part of the roof of the mouth. Heart.—The heart of Fishes (fig. 522, C, A> is situated beneath the throat immediately be- hind the inferior terminations of the branchial arches, where it is lodged in a compartment partitioned off from the cavity of the abdomen by a strong tendinous septum, which forms a sort of immoveable diaphragm. In the Lam- preys the heart is moreover encased in a cartila- ginous capsu!e/^/(g.521, m) formed by the poste- rior portion of the cartilaginous frame-work that surrounds the branchial apparatus. In the course of the circulation the heart of Fishes is interposed between the systemic veins and the organs of respiration, its office being to propel the venous blood received through the venae cava: into the gills, whence it is conveyed by the arterial system to be distri- buted to the body without the intervention of any contractile cavity devoted to its propulsion through the arterial trunks. For a diagram of the course of the circulation in Fishes the reader is referred to Jig. 319, vol. i. The heart of a fish is therefore at once distin- guishable from that of any other vertebrate ani- mal by the circumstance of its consisting of only two cavities, an auricleand a ventricle, the former of which receives the blood from the body, while the latter diffuses it over the branchial surfaces. The auricle (fig. 522, C) is very capacious, having its walls made up of intercrossing mus- cular fibres, which from their frequent decussa- tions present internally a reticulate appearance. It receives the venous blood from a sinus (D), formed by the conjoined cavae through a single orifice, which is guarded by two large semilu- nar valves, arranged so as to prevent the reflux of blood into the veins. The ventricle is considerably smaller than the auricular cavity, with which it communi- cates by a wide lateral orifice. Its shape in the osseous Fishes is most usually somewhat four-sided, and its muscular walls, considerably thicker than those of the auricle, present inter- nally a strong fasciculated appearance. The au- riculo-ventricular opening is generally guarded by two strong valves ordinarily of a semilunar