PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 7221 and which is certainly necessary to the validity of some of the premises upon which his doc- trine rests, is, I think, likewise open to strong objection. I cannot understand that great width of the occipital region and thickness of the back of the neck should necessarily indi- cate a great developement of the cerebellum. I do not mean to assert that a large cerebellum would not give rise to a large occipital region, but I do assert that great developement of the mesocephale may give rise to the very same external indications. This latter segment of the encephalon is of considerable size, and, as I have shown in a former part of this article, of com- plex anatomical structure, and contains all the elements of a distinct centre, while it possesses extensive connections with the cerebral hemi- spheres, the cerebellum, and the medulla ob- longata. The largest portion of it, however, is independent of the cerebellum, and it is this portion which contains the greatest abundance of vesicular matter, and which has most dis- tinctly the characters of a separate centre of nervous influence. Now the position of the mesochephale, in front of and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, is such that a great developement of it would push the hemi- spheres to each side, and thus, notwithstanding a small size of the hemispheres themselves, the occipital region would become expanded. The great and pre-eminent size of the cere- bellum in the human subject would warrant the belief that the sexual instinct in man far exceeded that of other animals, if Gall's doc- trine were correct. Yet this seems by no means to be the case ; for, although in man this instinct is more frequently in operation, it cannot be said to influence the whole system to the same extent as in many of the inferior animals. Surely this instinct is not more pow- erful in man than in the feline class, both male and female ;—the common cat, for instance, in which the lateral lobes of the cerebellum are very imperfectly developed'. There are other animals, likewise, peculiarly distinguished by the strength of this instinct and the re- markable extent to which it influences their entire functions. I have already referred to the extraordinary state of polar tension to which the spinal cord of the male frog, or a portion of it, is liable during the state of sexual ex- citement. Yet in this animal the cerebellum is very small; nor does it at this period acquire of Dr. Combe, justify him in charging us with ig- norance in making this assertion. Mr. Noble like- wise dignifies our argument with the title of " non- sense." I am content to repeat the argument and to leave it to persons of calmer judgment to decide whether it is of sufficient weight. Mr. Noble has been so courteous and so complimentary in his re- marks generally, that I cannot allow myself to be- lieve that he intended offence by the use of this term. I hope, however, that he will excuse me for ob- serving that it is much to be regretted that the ad- vocates of particular views should allow their zeal so far to outrun their judgment as to lead them, in the sober seriousness of print, to make use of terms which they would hardly venture upon in the less premeditated colloquial argument,—Sec Noble on the lirain, p. 142. any increase of size; and, moreover, there is no appreciable difference between the cerebel- lum of the male frog and that of the female, which exhibits no indication of increased ex- citement at this period. In fishes the instinct is in all probability strong; and the generative impulse, unaided as it is by sexual commerce, would seem to be dependent, more than in cases where copulation occurs, on the change which may take place in the nervous centre in accordance with the manifestation of that in- stinct; yet the cerebellum is by no means large in these animals. Dr. Carpenter refers to the kangaroo as affording a good instance of dis- proportionate developement of the cerebellum to the generative instinct. He says, " a friend who kept some kangaroos in his garden, in- formed the author that they were the most salacious animals he ever saw, yet their cere- bellum is one of the smallest to be found in the class (Mammalia). Every one knows, again, the salacity of monkeys; there are many which are excited to violent demonstrations, by the sight even of a human female; and there are few which do not practise masturbation when kept in solitary confinement; yet in them the cerebellum is much smaller than in man, in whom the sexual impulse is much less violent." According to Gall and most of his followers mutilation of the genital organs or their decay in the advance of age is attended by marked effects on the cerebellum. If one testicle be destroyed, a distinct diminution, according to Gall, takes place subsequently in the cere- bellar hemisphere of the opposite side. The kind of evidence upon which phrenologists rest their views of this matter will appear from the following specimens: 1. Dr. Ciall relates that at Vienna he was consulted by two officers who had become impotent in consequence of blows from fire-arms, which had grazed the napes of their necks. 2. " Baron Larrey," says Gall, "sent to me a soldier who, in undergoing an operation for hernia, had lost the right tes- ticle. Several years afterwards his right eye became weak. He began to squint with the diseased eye, and could scarcely any longer distinguish objects with this eye. I examin- ed the nape of his neck, in presence of the two physicians who had brought him, and I found the occipital swelling of the left side much less prominent than that of the right side. The difference was so perceptible that the two physicians were struck with it at first sight." 3. Baron Larrey's cases :—a. An artilleryman received a wound from a musket-ball, which traversed from side to side the insertions of the extensor muscles of the head, grazing and dividing the two inferior occipital swellings which correspond to the hemispheres of the cerebellum. This individual experienced a diminution, in the size of his testicles, which fell into a state of atrophy, b. A light horseman, of very amorous disposition, received a sword- cut, which divided the skin and all the convex portion of the occipital bone through to the dura mater. The right lobe of the cerebellum was seen through the opening of the dura mater, and the slightest pressure upon this organ