NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encepiialon.) 703 radiate extensively. It may be stated to con- nect the convolutions of the middle lobes and the corpora striata. 3. The posterior commissure is a band of fibres, extended between the posterior extre- mities of the optic thalami, upon which rests the base of the pineal body. Those fibres, which immediately support that body, have been distinguished as the pineal commissive; but as they are evidently part of the same system as those which constitute the posterior commissure, there seems no good reason for separating them. 4. The soft commissure is also extended be- tween the thalami. It is composed of vesi- cular matter with fibres, which pass from one side to the other. The intermixture of its fibres with vesicular matter distin- guishes it from the other transverse commis- sures already described. A layer of a simi- lar nature connects the locus niger of each crus cerebri, and fills up the space between the crura—interpeduncular space. This has been already described as the pons Turini, posterior perforated space. It consists of fibrous matter intermixed with vesicular, ex- tended between the crura cerebri. It seems analogous to the soft commissure, and there- fore entitled to be regarded as a commissure. Of the manner in which the commissures connect the various parts between which they are placed, it is difficult to form an exact opinion. It is most probable that they form an intimate union with the grey matter of the segments which they serve to connect. It might also be conjectured that they are conti- nuous with some of the fibres of the segments which they unite, or that they interlace with them in some intricate way, so as to come into intimate or frequent contact with them. Tuber cinereum.—At the base of the brain we have already described a layer of pale grey matter which fills up the interval between the mamillary bodies and the optic commissure. It extends above the optic commissure for- wards to the anterior reflexion of the corpus callosum, and forms intimate connections with the anterior pillars of the fornix, the optic tracts, the septum lucidum, and at the floor of the third ventricle with the optic thalami. It consists of vesicular matter with fibres, and resembles very much the soft commissure, to which it is very probably analogous in office. The process called infundibulum or pituitary process extends from the inferior surface of the tuber cinereum down to the pituitary body. It is hollow, wide above, where it commu- nicates with the third ventricle, and narrow below at the pituitary body. When cut across, fluid will escape from the third ventricle through it, and a probe passes readily from thjat cavity into it. It is composed of a layer of granules, derived, no doubt, from the epi- thelial lining of the third ventricle, and some vesicular matter with bloodvessels and fibrous tissue, which latter is derived from the pia mater, and the special sheath of arachnoid reflected upon it. Pituitary body.—The process just described is the connecting link between the brain and that glandiform body, the pituitary gland or hypophysis. This body, situate in the sella Turcica, is of a rounded form, longer in the transverse than the antero-posterior direction, concave on its superior surface, into which the pituitary process is inserted. It is surrounded by dura mater, which projects over it, leaving an opening for the passage of the infundi- bulum. The pituitary body is about six lines in its transverse diameter and three lines from before backwards: its weight, including the infundi- bulum, is about eight grains. It consists of two lobes, one anterior, the other posterior. The former is kidney-shaped and lodges the latter in the notch of its posterior edge. In point of size the anterior lobe is nearly double the posterior. The colour of the posterior lobe is lighter than that of the anterior, and resembles that of the grey matter of the brain. This body is proportionally larger in early life than at the later periods, and it is certainly more developed in the lower mammalia than in man. It is very large in fishes, and pro- bably reaches its maximum of size in that class of animals. The structure of the pituitary body resem- bles very much the grey cerebral matter. It is composed of large nucleated vesicles, sur- rounded by a granular matrix, with bundles of white fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue either forms an essential element in its constitution, or accompanies the bloodvessels which are found in it in great numbers. Its substance is soft, but not so soft as the cerebral matter, and when pressed between the fingers is re- duced to a greyish pulp, like the substance of an absorbent gland in an early stage of suppu- ration. Earthy concretions have been occasionally but very rarely found in the pituitary body. This circumstance, its colour, its glandiform character, and its extra-cerebral situation in connexion with the third ventricle, give it a certain degree of analogy to the pineal body. But in this latter nervous fibres have been found, of which I have failed to discover any trace in the pituitary, nor is the pituitary body connected to the brain by fasciculi of fibres as the pineal body is. The use of both is equally involved in obscurity; but from their con- stancy it may be argued that their function is not unimportant. It has been supposed that the pituitary body is a large ganglion belong- ing to the sympathetic system: this opinion, however, wants the all-important foundation of anatomy to rest upon, inasmuch as we find that the body in question is devoid of the ana- tomical characters of a ganglion. It may with more propriety be classed with the glands without efferent ducts; and from its numerous vessels, and its close relation to part of the venous system within the cranium, it may be connected with the process of absorption or re- moval of the effete particles of the brain.