PISCES. 967 Fig. 501. Skull of Sea Lamprey (Petromyzon marinus). After J. Midler, a, cartilaginous spinal axis; b, c, rudimentary cartilaginous neural arches ; d, d, part of cartilaginous respiratory framework; y, auditory capsule ; h, cra- nium ; i, i", i', processes therefrom giving attachment to the muscles of the tongue; k, nasal capsule ; I, cartilage covering hinder part of mouth ; n, o, p, q, anterior cartilages entering into composition of mouth 7 r, s, os hyoides. nous framework situated on the sides of the neck, enclosing the branchial apparatus, and allowing respiration to be accomplished by a peculiar mechanism which will be described in its proper place. This singular structure con- sists of seven pairs of cartilaginous arches de- rived from a kind of sternum situated in the mesial line beneath the throat. These arches, which have nothing in common with the bran- chial arches of Fishes, mount upwards inter- ruptedly towards the spine, giving off anterior and posterior processes to form a kind of frame to the branchial orifices. Anteriorly this re- markable apparatus is attached to the cranium, while posteriorly it terminates in a thin cartila- ginous capsule, which encloses the heart; it will, however, be better to describe it further on. In Ammocetes the skeleton is even more im- perfect than in the Lamprey, all its parts remain- ing permanently in a membranous condition, so that they would seem to resemble worms more than vertebrated animals, and in fact were ab- solutely classed as worms even by the great Linnaeus. Skeleton of Branchiostoma.—■ In this re- markable Fish the entire spine is made up of a succession of very delicate membranous rings without any apophyses whatever; neither in young specimens is the slightest trace of a cranial dilatation of the vertebral column appa- rent, probably owing to its being at this period quite gelatinous in its texture, and conse- quently translucent; and even in adults such is its softness that it is impossible to distin- guish it satisfactorily ; but along the back from sixty to seventy vertebra; are easily counted, the divisions between them being indicated by slight bulgings and lines passing obliquely from above downwards on the sides of the column. In this way a separation between the rachidian rings is rather indicated than proved to exist; for, although there is, so to express it, a tendency to divide at the points indicated, the division is rather artificial than natural. According to Mr. Goodsir, the chorda dor- salis is formed externally of a fibrous sheath, and internally of an immense number of la- minae, each of the size and shape of a section of the column at the place where it is situ- ated. When any por- tion of the column is removed, these plates may be pushed out of their sheath like a pile of coins. They have no great adhesion to one another, are of the consistence of parch- ment, and appear like flattened bladders, as if formed of two fibrous membranes pressed to- gether. Two ligaments may be detected, one run- ning along the upper, the other along the lower aspect of the spinal column; and from its sides aponeurotic laminoe pass off to form septa of attachment between the layers of mus- cles. Along the mesial plane above the co- lumn a similar aponeurosis separates the supe- rior lateral muscular masses, and by splitting inferiorly, so as to join the sides of the rachi- dian chord, forms the canal for the spinal medulla. Foramina exist all along this canal for the passage of the nerves. A similar apo- neurotic septum is situated along the inferior part of the column from the anal opening to the extremity of the tail. Imbedded in these two aponeuroses are cartilaginous rudiments representing the superior and inferior vertebral spines, but these are of extreme softness and delicacy; and the traces which exist of the transverse processes and ribs are in the same soft condition, so that they are with difficulty distinguishable. In Branchiostoma, therefore, the locomotive skeleton may be said to consist of the vertebral column only, without either cranium or appended limbs. There is, however, an exceedingly elaborate framework of soft cartilaginous arches which surrounds the branchial chamber, and forms a kind of branchial thorax, the nature of which will be examined further on. Arthrodial si/stem.—The articulations of the bones of Fishes present the same varieties as those of other animals; only the arthrodial and ginglymoid are more rarely met with because their limbs have not to execute such complicated movements. It is by means of a ginglymus that the lower jaw and operculum are attached to the pterygopalatine apparatus, and the latter to the cranium. The same articulation occurs be- tween the rays of the dorsal and anal fins with the interspinous bones, and between the first ray of the pectoral fin with the bone analogous to the radius. There are, moreover, in Fishes two kinds of articulations having determinate movements which are not met with in the other classes : one is formed by two rings joined one to the