419 MOTION. Ermann, that the molecules approximate during contraction, the magnetic force would increase at the same time, and the muscular force is observed to decrease, therefore both of these hypotheses are inconsistent with the theory of the identity of the magnetic and muscular forces. The power of muscles, however, rapidly decreases by exertion, especially in some of the lower animals, such as the Ophidian and Batra- chian reptiles; the ratio of decrease is in pro- portion to the energy of action, until, by con- tinued exertion, locomotion becomes impos- sible. It has now been sufficiently demonstrated that muscles are capable not only of moving the levers on which they act with great force and velocity, and of prolonging their action for a greater or less period, but that they are endowed also with a surplus of force beyond what is necessary for locomotion, and which is applied to the various purposes of life. Having now given a brief statement of the mechanical principles applicable to the loco- motion of animals, we shall proceed to give an outline of their various modes of progression according as it is performed in air, in water, or on solids; and in the first place, for example, we shall select those that move by means of an aeriform medium. Sect. II. Flying.—Flying depends on the power which animals possess of raising them- selves in the air, and of moving through it with considerable velocity in every direction. The power of flight is denied to a large proportion of the animal kingdom, and requires for its exercise a certain configuration of body, adjust- ment of parts, and modification of structure, based on the most profound principles of dyna- mics. In flying, as in swimming, the animal moves in a medium which furnishes a suitable fulcrum to its levers or locomotive organs, whatever may be their kind or form. Air sup- plies the medium to animals that fly as water to those that swim. Air, however, being more than eight hundred times lighter than water, gives a proportionably diminished support to the animals which move in it; consequently, instead of having the whole or nearly the whole weight of the body sustained, as when plunged in water, the same animal weighs as much more in air as corresponds to the difference in the specific gravities of the two fluids, or nearly as 1| to 1000. The weight of the volume of air displaced by the equal volume of any insect or bird indicates the amount of buoyancy or force acting vertically upwards, in opposition to the force of gravity on the mass of the body of the animal acting vertically downwards. The difference between the specific gravity of animals and that of the atmosphere represents the weight necessary to be overcome in flying by the action of their locomotive organs; or, in other words, whatever may be the amount of the force of gravity on the mass of particles composing the whole animal in a direction •vertically downwards, and the resistance of the air on its surface due to its velocity, an equal force acting vertically upwards will be required to sustain it in the air, and a still greater force to cause it to rise. It is the vast preponderance of the weight of most animals over that of the air they displace, which con- stitutes the chief obstacle to their flight, in addition to their inappropriate form and the unsuitable organization of their locomotive organs. Flight of insects.—The flight of insects depends on the same principles as that of birds, notwithstanding the dissimilar structure of their bodies and wings. The skeleton of insects is both light and dense, and, without greatly adding to their weight, affords the necessary fulcrum for the action of an elaborate muscular system. The mobility of the seg- ments of the abdomen upon the thorax enables the insect to bend upon itself, and to adjust the position of the centre of gravity, with respect to the articulation of the wings during flight. The attachment of the wings to the trunk lies above the centres of magnitude and gravity, so that the insect is kept steady whilst flying. Compared with their volume, the weight of insects is less than that of birds : the lightness of their skeletons and the diffusion through their bodies of trachea? and air cavities, greatly tend to diminish their specific gravity and the quantity of muscular action em- ployed during their flight. The form of their bodies is very irregular, but being for the most part either cylindrical or ellipsoidal, is well adapted to pass through the air with little resistance. In the Diptera, the single pair of wings is articulated to the meso-thorax; in the- other orders with two pairs of wingSj the first pair is also articulated to the meso-thorax, and the second to the meta-thorax. The wings are composed of a duplicature of the common integuments continued from those parts of the body. In the Diptera and Ilymenoptera the ratio of the areas of the wings to their weight is much less than in the Lepidoptera; and as this ratio decreases, the number of the vibrations of the wings in a given time proportionally increases. Hence it is vastly greater in the two former orders than in the latter. The neurse when injected with air and fluid assist in giving expansion and tension to the wings ; an office compared by Jurine to the support given to a sail by its cordage. Insects are capable of varying the area of their wings during their elevation and depression, by alternately filling and exhausting the tubes, which movements follow synchronously the expansion and con- traction of the thorax. The muscles which act indirectly on the wings at the same time effect changes in their surfaces, angular inclinations, and ratios of velocity during their ascent and descent. There is an elaborate mechanism pro- vided in the structure of insects relating to their flight. The surfaces of their wings, like those of birds, are in general slightly convex above and concave below. In the Strepsiptera, Or- thoptera, and Hemiptera their figure approaches that of the quadrant of a circle. In the Diptera, Coleoptera, and diurnal Sphinges it is ellip- soidal. The figure of the wings varies, how- 2 e 2