LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 216 ' II consiste (ceproccde) apercer superficielle- ment le tissu cutane avec 1'extremite d'un tube capillaire en verre ou en acier, de facon a n'interesser que l'epiderme, pour arriver au reseau vasculaire situe entre cet epiderme et le chorion. On obtient ainsi l'injection de reseaux admirables de vaisseaux lymphatiques." I have frequently produced the appearance here alluded to in all parts of the body: a fetus answers best for the purpose, but the proper lymphatics are never filled from these supposed net-works of lymphatic vessels. They are clearly nothing more than the spaces around the bases of the papilla? of the skin, from which, as putrefaction commences, the cuticle sepa- rates more readily than from their apices, con- sequently little canals are left around the pa- pilla5, which communicate with each other and form a pretty exact resemblance to vessels fill- ing rapidly as the mercury runs around the bases of the papillae. The appearance can only be produced at a certain stage of putrefaction when the cuticle is about to separate. On removing the cuticle, the pretended vessels im- mediately disappear; but on the glans penis, on the scrotum, and on the skin of the nipple the removal of the cuticle will not disturb the net-works of vessels which may be there in- jected ; moreover from these the lymphatic trunks can always be filled. I am also dis- posed to think, contrary to the received opinion, that the serous membranes do not universally present this superficial network of lymphatics; there are at any rate parts of these membranes where I have never seen these vessels injected, while there are others in which anatomists in- variably succeed in shewing them ; and for the mere purpose of absorbing the fluid secreted by the serous sacs, there appears to me nothing extraordinary in the supposition, that those por- tions of the membrane only which are most conveniently situated for the purpose should be endowed with the proper organization to effect it. The mode of procedure, however, adopted by Fohmann and others to display the incipient lymphatic net-works is open to serious objec- tions, and calculated without great circumspec- tion to lead into error. The capillary blood- vessels will often be implicated in the wound required to pierce the lymphatic net-work, con- sequently the injection may be found in the arterial and venous as well as in the larger lymphatic branches leading from the part. To succeed to any extent many punctures may be required, and in all probability some of these will conduct the injection into the three sets of vessels; but I have several times by the first puncture succeeded in injecting a net-work of vessels on the glans penis, which has conveyed the injection at once into the lymphatic branches on the body of the penis, and into these vessels only. The cellular tissue will also readily receive the injection, and where the cells are very small and uniform, as is the case with the umbilical cord, they resemble very much a net-work of vessels distended with quicksilver; and although Fohmann ad- mits these to be cells, yet fiom their regularity he has been led to consider them a part of the lymphatic system. In the same category may be classed the supposed lymphatic cells of the cornea observed by Arnold and by Miiller. The submucous cellular tissue also is fre- quently arranged in little cylindrical cells which communicate with each other, and these cells on receiving the mercury put on the appearance pretty exactly of a net-work of vessels, but lymphatic vessels are not found conveying the injection away from them to the nearest lym- phatic glands, which I imagine should be the proof required before we admit any vessels or cells to belong to the lymphatic system, how- ever beautifully displayed by our injections. The subserous tissue is open to the same re- mark, and I can hardly offer a better instance of what appears to me to be an error arising from this source, than by quoting Fohmann's own words in reference to what he describes as the lymphatics of the brain. " Les vaisseaux lymphatiques des enveloppes des masses cen- trales du systeme nerveux sont ties faciles a demontrer, surtout au cerveau et au cervelet. Lorsqu'on enfonce une lancette entre la pie- mere et l'arachnoide, et qu'on insuffle le canal que Ton vient de pratiquer, on voit paraitre un reseau lymphatique interpose entre ses deux tuniques, reseau forme de rameaux d'un calibre plus considerable que dans les autres tissus du corps; cependant leurs parois sont si foibles qu'elles se dechirent presque aussitot qu'on y introduit le mercure." With respect to the universal net-work of lymphatics attributed to the lining membrane of the heart, and to that of the arteries and veins, I cannot admit, that the injections of a few minute canals with quicksilver on the lining membrane of the heart in the horse, by Lauth, and similar in- jections by Cruveilhier and Bonamy, can be received as demonstrative: the injection was not traced from them to a distinct lymphatic vessel, armed with valves_and pursuing its course towards a lymphatic gland ; these mi- nute canals might have been capillary blood- vessels, or, as Breschet observes in his expla- nation of the plate which he gives from Lauth of these supposed vessels, " Nous pensons qu'ils sont uniquement constitues par des la- cunes du tissu cellulaire." In concluding what I had to say of the origin of the lymphatic vessels, a subject so inextricably mixed up with our preconceived physiological notions, I ought, perhaps, to offer some apology for advancing in an article of this nature any opinion peculiar to myself; I mean in reference to curtailing the extent to which the lymphatic system will be found to exist in the organism. My own mind has been forced to this conclusion after some years of attention to the subject, both from anatomical and physiological considerations. It has appeared to me in the first place, that anatomists who have especially devoted their time to this interesting subject of late years, have not yet fairly freed themselves from the influence of the Hunterian views with respect to the part performed by the lymphatic vessels, as well as by the arterial capillaries, in effect- ing the growth and habitual nutrition of the