nr ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. again are supported and restrained by resisting cartilages externally, so that if the submucous tissue which is here so loose as to allow the membrane to be thrown into natural folds, should become the seat of infiltration, the swelling so produced cannot take a direction outwards, but must tend to compress and close the aperture of the glottis. This is the cedema of the glottis, a formidable and too often a fatal affection, but nevertheless present- ing very considerable pathological varieties. Thus it is sometimes attended by fever, and forms only part of a more extended inflamma- tion, involving tonsils and fauces, pharynx and larynx : again, it is purely local, confined to the larynx alone, and so entirely free from any accompanying fever, that the patient only com- plains of the difficulty of breathing and the cough. It is often idiopathic, but may be produced by injury, and is a common result of swallowing caustic poisons and boiling water ; nor is it in this latter respect confined to the adult, for I have thus seen the superior aper- ture of the glottis, in a very young child, pursed up and closed as if by the drawing of a running string. It may be situated only in a part of the larynx, the rest remaining free ; thus it is no uncommon occurrence to see only one side of the glottis puffed and swollen, and the slit-like aperture thus converted into a curve; but the most interesting because the most prac- tical illustrations of partial cedema will be found in cases published by Sir Henry Marsh, in which the disease appeared to be confined to the epiglottis alone.* Lastly, I believe it is possible to have this cedema produced without any external evidence of inflammation. In the Museum of the School of Park-street there is a preparation shewing it as apparently occa- sioned by the vicinity of a large carcinomatous tumour. Considering the pathology of this affection, the degrees of inconvenience and of danger likely to result from it will be easily under- stood. The symptoms will be, a loss or imper- fection of voice, which is generally very well marked, the utmost effort at articulation amount- ing to no more than an indistinct whisper ; and difficulty of respiration, including cough and other signs of local irritation. The danger will probably be in proportion to the rapidity with which the effusion is formed, for life may be maintained with a wonderfully diminished supply of air to the lungs, provided the dimi- nution takes place gradually and slowly: but it may not arise solely from this cause, for here, as in every other form of laryngeal disease, spas- modic exacerbations are painfully frequent, and place the patient's life in momentary danger. Dissection, therefore, developes three different causes of death. One, the most infrequent where the patient has perished by spasm : the glottis, although swollen, is still pervious— perhaps apparently sufficiently so for the ordi- * See Dub. Journ. of Med. Science, March 1838, v. 13, no. 37. This excellent paper of Sir H. Marsh's contains many illustrations of the same fact. nary purposes of respiration; but in order lo observe the relaxation after spasm, several hours must be allowed to elapse between death and the post-mortem examination, for the bodies of those who die of laryngeal disease become ex- tremely rigid, and remain in this state a consi- derable time. A second, in which the effusion having been poured out with great rapidity, the rima is found mechanically blocked up, and immediate suffocation occasioned : in this case neither the lungs nor brain are engaged, at least not necessarily. The third is, where the dis- ease has lasted three or four days or more, the cedema has been developed but slowly, and the diminution of the supply of air been less sudden : in these cases, besides the symptoms of strangulation, others, indicative of a con- gested condition of the lung and brain, are observed during the latter periods of existence, and corresponding morbid appearances are dis- coverable after death. Very severe inflammatory affections of the mucous membrane of the larynx are unfortu- nately too frequent to admit of doubt or to create difficulty ; but a good deal of confusion has arisen from an attempt to identify them, or some of them, with croup, because an exuda- tion takes place from the surface in some re- spects resembling the adventitious membrane formed in the latter disease. One of these has been described with graphic accuracy by M. Bretonneau of Tours, by him supposed to be the same with croup, and named Diphtherite : but although the differences between these af- fections have been observed and pointed out, the name is still frequently applied (1 fear) without very precise ideas attached to it. The exact disease described by Bretonneau I do not profess to have ever seen, neither have I heard of it, unless in one instance in a family in this country which lost four of its young and inte- resting members by a visitation at least bearing- some resemblance to it. In hospital 1 have heard the name applied to some throats which I never should have thought of identifying with that described by the French writer, and I feel satisfied that the attempt, to mix up different and it may be opposite diseases under one generic name has done anything but simplify the study of pathology. If, however, by asthenic croup or diphtherite is meant the peculiar local disease which accompanies the eruption of scarlatina anginosa, or which is frequently met with without any cutaneous eruption, especially in adults—which is ac- companied throughout by low and typhoid fever, and is often propagable by contagion— then is the affection well known and its de- scription easy: but it bears no similitude what- ever to inflammatory croup. For besides that the constitutional affections are totally oppo- site, a circumstance of the greatest importance as influencing the progress of the respective cases, the local symptoms and appearances have marked and distinct characters. Thus the as- thenic angina is always ushered in by shivering and other precursors of fever; the soreness of the throat is intense from the very commence-