788 ORBIT. The malar branch passes on to the inferior external angle of the orbit, where it sometimes communicates with the lachrymal nerve; it enters one or more canals in the malar bone, and appears on the facial surface, supplying the orbicularis and the integuments, and com- municating with the portio dura. In addition to the structures ordinarily described as existing within the orbit, Mr. O'Ferrall has described* a fibrous structure, to which he gives the name of " tunica vaginalis," and which invests the globe of the eye, sepa- rating it from the muscles and fat of the orbit. In order to expose the outer surface of this structure, a vertical incision must be made through the integument of the upper lid; after removing carefully the orbicularis and a fascia, between the two layers of which the tendon of the levator palpebrse is inserted, the part next in order is the tarsal cartilage. Tracing this upwards and backwards its thin margin is found to be continuous with a fibrous lamina, which passes back into the orbit and separates the globe of the eye from the superior rectus muscle, but presenting a well-defined opening, through which the tendon of the muscle passes as over a pulley, to be inserted into the scle- rotic coat. In order to examine the ocular sur- face of this membrane, Mr. O'Ferrall advises a vertical division of both palpebral, then an incision through the conjunctiva at the angle of reflection from the eyelid to the ball of the eye. The incision being made and the edges of the divided membrane separated, we expose the ocular surface of " a distinct tunic of a yellowish white colour and fibrous consistence, continuous in front with the posterior margin of the tarsal cartilage, and extending back- wards to the bottom or apex of the orbit, where its consistence becomes less strongly marked." This ocular surface is smooth where the eye glides over it in its movements, and is con- nected to the surface of the globe by fine cel- lular tissue. The muscular substance of the recti muscles is on the outside of this tunic and invisible through it; but about half an inch posterior to its anterior margin are six well-defined openings through which the ten- dons of the muscles emerge in passing to their insertion in the sclerotic coat. Mr. O'Fer- rall was induced to look for this structure in consequence of meeting with cases in which the globe of the eye and the conjunctiva were protruded in a manner not satisfactorily ex- plained by reference to any previously described structure. He believes these to have been cases of inflammation of this tunic, with effusion between its deep surface and the globe of the eye. Mr. O'Ferrall believes that "the uses of this tunic are to present a smooth surface, faci- litating the movements of the eye; and by its density and tension, to protect it from the pres- sure incidental to the swelling of its muscles during their action. That the openings in this • Dublin Journal of Medical Science, July, tunic perform the office of pulleys, giving a proper direction to the force exerted by the muscles,—securing the motions of rotation, and opposing those of retraction, which would other- wise predominate." Action of the muscles.—The action of the levator patpebrie muscle is to raise the upper lid, and thus to expose the anterior part of the eye-ball. In this action it is an associate of the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis, and an antagonist of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Sir C. Bell* affirmed that the action of the levator palpebree is not simply that of raising the upper lid, but that the swelling and tension of the muscle during its action have the effect of pushing forwards the eye-ball, thus causing the lower lid to slide off the convex surface of the eye, and to be depressed whilst the upper lid is elevated. There is no proof of any such action of the levator palpebral, and it seems improbable that it should exert any such in- fluence, separated as it is from the eye-ball by the superior rectus, by a considerable quantity of fat and by the " tunica vaginalis." The re- sult of paralysis of this muscle is a dropping of the upperlid, to which the term ptosis is applied. It is evident from an examination of the origin, course, and insertion of the recti muscles, that each of them acting singly is capable of making the eye-ball revolve in its own direc- tion ; the superior rectus directs the cornea upwards; the inferior rectus antagonises the superior and directs the cornea downwards; the external rectus directs it outwards and is antagonised by the internal, which draws the cornea inwards towards the nose. It is also evident that the action of any two contiguous recti muscles will give the cornea a direction intermediate between that which it would as- sume from the action of each of them singly; the superior and internal recti acting together will direct the cornea upwards and inwards, while the inferior and external will direct it downwards and outwards ; so that the cornea may be made to assume any intermediate posi- tion by the action of the recti muscles alone. The successive action of all the recti mus- cles would produce a movement of the eye- ball analogous to circumduction of a limb; and as the circumduction of a limb is a move- ment altogether distinct from rotation, so is this circumduction of the eye-ball entirely dis- tinct from any rotation upon its antero-posterior axis. In circumduction the centre of the cornea describes a circle, whereas in rotation this point remains fixed, forming the anterior extremity of an imaginary axis, round which the circumference of the cornea revolves. It is of much importance to have a definite notion of each of these movements, as we shall thus avoid one source of confusion in con- sidering the action of the straight and oblique muscles of the eye. Having thus defined rotation, no argument is necessary to prove that the recti muscles are incapable of producing such a movement; a glance at their direction * The Nervous System of the Human Body, by Sir C. Bell. 11