743 NUTRITION. exists in a condition that can rightly be termed organised. Moreover, as it is clear that the gelatinous tissues may be formed at the ex- pense of albumen, we are justified in regard- ing- this substance as the common pabulum for all. In order to form a definite conception of the nature of the transformations, which this prin- ciple is destined subsequently to undergo, it is important to bear in mind, in limine, that al- bumen cannot be regarded as possessed of any properties that characterize it as a vital com- pound—or, in other words, that essentially distinguish it from compounds of an ordinary chemical nature. In its coagulability by heat or by acids—in its combination with alkalies as an acid, or with acids as a base—and in the absence of any power cf spontaneously passing into forms more decidedly organic than the granules which are seen when it is made to coagulate slowly—it is closely analogous to many substances which belong to the domain of inorganic chemistry. It appears, then, to be totally unpossessed of the property of plasticity ; by which we mean the power of being at once converted into organised tissue: so that any deposit, whether fluid or solid, which mainly consists of albuminous matter, must be regard- ed as aplastic. This is a principle of great importance, as we shall see further on. Before albumen is ready to be appropriated by the tissues as the material for their nutri- tion, it must undergo a very important change— not so much, however, in its chemical compo- sition, as in the re-arrangement of its particles in a new mode, by which its properties are es- sentially changed. There seems reason to believe that, in the proportions of its ultimate elements, it is identical with the substance termed fibrin, into which it is changed during its passage through the chyliferous and sangui- ferous vessels. [See Albumen and Fibrin.] But there are such decided and well-marked rences between these two compounds, as indicate that they fulfil entirely different pur- poses in the animal economy ; and that whilst, chemically speaking, they are isomeric, the fibrin is endowed with properties of a distinctly vital character—that is, altogether different from any with which mere chemistry brings us acquainted. One of the most obvious mani- festations of this difference is the property which is universally regarded as distinctive of fibrin—its tendency to coagulate spontaneously when withdrawn from the living vessels, and to pass into the form of a tissue more or less definitely organised. As will presently be shown, the completeness of this transformation depends upon two circumstances in particu- lar;—the perfect elaboration of the fibrin it- self, and the vitality of the surface upon which the concretion takes place. When the fibrin is highly elaborated, it will coagulate in the form of a definite network of minute fibrillar, even upon a dead surface, as a slip of glass; this is the case, for instance, with the fibrin of the buffy coat of the blood, or with that of the liquor sanguinis (coagulated lymph,) poured out for the reparation of an injured part. But in the ordinary fibrin of the blood, the fibrilla- tion is less distinct, when the concretion takes place upon a dead surface. When it occurs in contact with a living surface, however, the co- agulation takes place more gradually; and it seems as if the particles, having more time to arrange themselves, become aggregated into more definite forms, so that a more regular tissue is produced—just as crystals are most perfectly formed, when the crystalline action takes place slowly. It was formerly imagined, that the muscular tissue is the only one pro- duced at the expense of the fibrin of the blood; the other tissues being formed from its albumen. This, however, is unquestionably erroneous. There is no proof whatever, that albumen, as long as it remains in thai condition, ever be- comes organised; whilst, on the other hand, there is abundant evidence that the plasticity of any fluid deposit—that is, its capability of being metamorphosed into organised tissue—is in direct relation with the quantity of fibrin which it contains. Thus the liquor sanguinis or coagulated lymph, thrown out for the repa- ration of injuries, contains a large amount of fibrin ; and this substance is converted, not at first into muscular fibre, but (whatever may be the tissue to be ultimately produced in its place) into a fibrous network, which fills up the breach, and holds together the surrounding structure. This may be regarded as a simple form of areolar tissue, which gradually be- comes more perfectly organised by the exten- sion of vessels and nerves into its substance, and in which other forms of tissue may subse- quently make their appearance. This process will be more particularly described hereafter; it is at present noticed here, as an illustration of the general fact, that fibrin is to be regarded as the plastic element of the nutritive fluids. The change from albumen to fibrin is, there- fore, the first important step in the process of assimilation. It commences in the absorbent system ; for the chyle is usually found to con- tain fibrin, even befcwe it enters the mesenteric glands (as is indicated by its tendency, however feeble, to spontaneous coagulation) ; and after it has passed through them, the quantity of fibrin is considerably increased, so that chyle drawn from the thoracic duct usually coagulates with tolerable firmness. This process of elabora- tion continues in the blood : for the quantity of fibrin it contains is always kept up, in health, to a certain standard, although there must be a continual withdrawal of it for the nutritive pro- cesses, without a corresponding regular supply from the chyle ; and we find.it, moreover, un- dergoing a sudden and remarkable increase, under the influence of local agencies. The question naturally suggests itself, therefore—■ what is the cause of this change ? It has been usually attributed to some influence effected upon the albuminous fluid, by the living sur- faces over which it is passing; and the increase in the amount of fibrin in the chyle, which is specially noticed after its passage through the mesenteric glands, has been thought due to some peculiar action of the blood that may comeinto relation with it, through the thin walls