PERITONEUM. 936 arteries, its veins, its nerves, and its lymphatics passing to and from it, and the whole must be invested by a single shut sac without loss of continuity. The complexity thus arising de- mands for this membrane a lengthened descrip- tion. We propose, first, to trace its continuity throughout its entire extent; next, to describe the sheets with two free surfaces, which it forms by duplication ; thirdly, to examine the manner in which it invests each of the viscera, and the abdominal parietes, that is to say, the extent to which it does so in the case of each, the point at which it arrives at and quits each, and so on; and, lastly, to describe its con- nexions, or the adhesion of its external surface, varying in intimacy, with the parts which it invests. The most important points connected with the anatomy of the peritoneum will be incidentally involved in the consideration of the first of these propositions. Continuity of the peritoneum.—To demonstrate the unbroken continuity of the peritoneum, we are compelled, in description, to trace it in various directions, starting from a certain point and following it up till, having performed a complete circuit, we return again to our starting point. In doing so we shall avoid restricting ourselves to the mesial or any other sectional line. We believe that such a restriction, closely adhered to, tends to convey an erroneous impression, namely, that of a line instead of a superficial expanse. In thus tracing the peritoneum, it is better to let the mind rest upon the idea of a free surface, rather than upon that of a mem- brane. By a membrane one is apt to under- stand a separable skin ; but in some situations not only is it impossible, by any ordinary ma- nipulation, to separate the peritoneum from its connections, but two layers of it often form together a structure so thin that one can hardly help regarding it as a single membrane. In no instance is any part of a serous membrane free on both its surfaces. The external surface of the peritoneum, like that of all other serous sacs, is every where adherent, either to the sub- jacent structures, or, as in its duplications, to itself; whilst, on the other hand, its internal surface is, normally, every where free. It follows then, that wherever, in the peritoneal cavity, the finger can be placed on a free sur- face, there is a layer of peritoneum immedi- ately beneath it; that if a continuous free surface is demonstrated, the continuity of the serous membrane is proved; that in fact a free serous surface represents a layer of serous membrane, and may be described instead of it when continuity alone is sought to be proved. We shall therefore at present use the expres- sions free surface and layer of serous mem- brane as synonymous ; the free surface of a viscus instead of the serous membrane invest- ing a viscus. When the abdominal cavity is laid open in front by a crucial incision, the inner surface of the reflected flaps is seen to be free, glistening, and of a pale red colour. By a slight exami- nation of the cut edges this is found to be the free surface of a membrane, whereof the other surface is connected to the subjacent structures by areolar tissue : the free surface is the parietal serous surface of the abdomen: the membrane is the parietal portion of the peritoneum. If an incision has been carried from the navel to the xiphoid cartilage, a falciform, membrane- like process, strikingly resembling the froenum linguee, is seen connected with the anterior parietal peritoneum, a little to the right of the middle line, projecting backwards, and towards that aspect presenting a free concave border. It is the falciform ligament of the liver. The base or broadest extremity of the falx is sessile along an antero-posterior line upon the upper surface and anterior edge of the liver; which line corresponds with and runs into the great antero-posterior fissure on the under surface of the liver; and this fissure receives the round ligament, and consequently the free edge of the falx which encloses it. The apex of the falx is at a point on the inner surface of the anterior abdominal parietes, corresponding to the navel. The surfaces of the falciform liga- ment are continuous with the serous surfaces of the parietes and liver; its free border, as inci- dentally mentioned above, encloses a structure called the round ligament of the liver, which gives a considerable thickness to this part. The round ligament of the liver is*the umbi- lical vein of the foetus, degenerated to a fibrous cord in the adult, and it runs across, as that vein did, from the navel to the antero-posterior fissure of the liver, defining the free border of the falciform process in question. The composition, then, of the falciform ligament of the liver is— a portion of peritoneum doubled or folded, so that its outer surface is brought in contact with itself, as happens when asheet of paper is folded so as to make two leaves. The two surfaces thus brought into contact, are united together by areolar tissue, as if the two leaves were stuck together with paste ; and the round liga- ment lies along in the extreme edge of the fold, like a string that holds a sheet of two leaves in a book-cover. The vessels necessary for the nutrition of these structures ramify in the in- terposed areolar tissue. It seems as if the umbilical vein, in making the shortest route from the navel to the longitudinal hepatic fis- sure, had carried back before it a fold of the superjacent peritoneum. We have spent more time in describing this, the first peritoneal fold we have come to, than is due to its importance, because it affords us, that which we want in this early stage of our description, an instance of the manner in which the peritoneum invests the various organs, having the advantage of extreme simplicity. A bowel is invested by the peritoneum and it occupies a situation in a fold precisely analo- gous to that which the round ligament occupies in the falciform ligament; whilst the vessels and nerves of the bowel pass to and from it imbedded in the areolar tissue uniting the ap- posed surfaces. Placing a finger of each hand on each side