580 NECK. self accordingly. It must have been through these means of fallacy that I have seen a most cautious and experienced operator de- ceived : he compressed the supposed ar- tery, raised on the aneurism-needle, with his finger; the pulsation ceased, the ligature was tightened, and the severe pain occa- sioned by this step at once declared the error (which was in the course of a few moments remedied, and the operation ultimately and entirely successful); the convexity of the nee- dle was doubtlessly resting on the artery, and compressed it upon the surface of the rib. The application of a ligature to the sub- clavian artery on the tracheal side of the sca- leni presents, perhaps, fewer merely mecha- nical difficulties than that just described, but involves a disturbance of more important or- gans, and requires perfect acquaintance with their anatomy. A separation of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus from its inferior attachment, and a division of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles and of their sheaths (includ- ing that deep layer which lies beneath the sterno - thyroideus and immediately covers the vessel) will expose the artery.* The ju- gular vein is seen crossing it, close to the scalenus, at the outer part of the wound, be- hind which lies the phrenic nerve; at the inner part of the wound the bifurcation of the arteria innominata is brought into view, and the sub- clavian is seen diverging from the carotid, Between this point and the border of the ju- gular vein, from half an inch to an inch of artery intervenes, about midway on which the nervus vagus crosses at a right angle. If the nerve require to be drawn aside, this ma- noeuvre must be executed with the extremest delicacy and gentleness ;f and the operator * The description in the text is confined to the mode of tying the right subclavian artery, on which alone, as yet, the operation has been performed. As regards the left, the course of the vagus and phrenic nerves (which run parallel to the vessel), and of the thoracic duct (which almost surrounds it) would enormously multiply the risks of the opera- tion ; and the increasing depth and oblique descent of the artery, as traced from the scalenus inwardly, would, it is believed, defeat evtry endeavour to effect its adequate exposure. Should it be desi- rable to secure the vessel internally to its passage over the rib, the most available method would pro- bably be that of tying it in the scalene space. This operation was performed in a single instance by Dupuytren in 1819 with success. The section of the scalenus anticus, if it were carefully executed, would be less perilous than on the right side, and might, under favourable circumstances, afford a sufficient space, between the branches of the artery and the aneurismal sac, to admit the safe appli- cation of a ligature. A complete division of the clavicular oiigin of the sterno-cleido-mastoidetis would be required ; and it would be necessary to obtain a distinct view of the phrenic nerve, before cutting the scalenus: the internal mammary artery might, as M. Malgaigne remarks, be injured even more readily than the nerve, if this incision were carelessly extended toward the median line. t It is difficult, in reading the record, or in wit- nessing the progress of unsuccessful cases of ope- ration at this part of the neck, to avoid believing that a neglect of cautious tenderness in managing the pneumogastric nerve, has tended to compromise the safety of the patient. No surgeon, who con- siders its vital importance to the functions and should not fail to remember his dangerous prox- imity to the pleura. The view of these parts is obscured by considerable venous haemor- rhage, which is here especially inconvenient, from the imperative necessity which exists for clearly seeing the artery and ascertaining the position of its branches before making any attempt to pass the needle. It is considered desirable to apply the ligature on the inner side of the vertebial branch, and as near to it as possible : yet, even under the most favour able circumstances, the adhesive actions at the seat of ligature must be seriously disturbed, both by the near direct stream of the carotid, and by the recurrent tides of the vertebral, mammary,and thyroid arteries. The single in- tance, in which 1 have seen this rare operation performed, was by my friend, Mr Partridge, who brought to bear on its execution a per- fect familiarity with every actual relation, and with every possible contingency ; nor could it have been confidently undertaken, or safely conducted, by one of inferior resources. The case was in so far favourable, that the tumour was small, the position of parts unaltered, the arteries regular and free from disease, and the venous haemorrhage not so troublesome as in many cases it certainly would be ; the parts were clearly seen, and the artery secured with- out the least unnecessary disturbance of con- tiguous parts. Yet, I confess the impression, which I derived from this single instance of operation, and from frequent consideration of the parts in a great variety of subjects, to have been, that ligature of the arteria innominata would in all cases be as easy, and, in many, far easier to perform, would (by involving organs of less delicacy and importance, than those interested in the tracheal ligature of the subclavian) render haemorrhage a less embar- rassing obstacle, and would afford a better prospect of undisturbed adhesion in the artery. The steps, necessary for exposing the one, re- quire so little modification, to become equally adapted for the other, that the surgeon might even be determined in his choice of either, by considerations developing themselves during the operation, by greater or smaller branchless extent of the subclavian artery, by the verte- bral vein obscuring a large portion of this, or by other circumstances of the kind. Although the arteria innominata cannot in anatomical strictness be considered as belong- ing to the neck, yet, in regard both of disease and of surgical operation, its affinity to that region is so close as to warrant its mention in this place. It rises from the convexity of the arch of the aorta, just as that main vessel, having terminated its ascent, inclines leftward. This point is in young subjects the highest level to which the aorta attains; but, as Cruveil- hier notices, in old age the extreme part of the arch, which corresponds to the origin of the left subclavian artery, is higher. In early life, too, from incomplete development of the ster- num, the convexity of the arch more nearly nutrition of the lung, can avoid viewing any un- necessary disturbance or rude traction of it as eminently perilous.