MOTION. 415 Fig. 217. 13 e Upon the principle of this proposition, it was long since observed by Galileo that nature greatly augments, in a thousand ways, the strength of bodies without increasing their weight, and that if a wheat straw which sup- ports the ear, that is heavier than the whole stalk, were made of the same quantity of mat- ter, but solid, it would bend or break with far greater ease than it now does. The feathers of birds as well as the bones of animals pre- sent similar provision for the combination of strength, lightness, and economy of material. The strength of bones, however, cannot, as might possibly be inferred from the preceding proposition, be increased with the same quan- tities of matter indefinitely, because when the diameter of the tube exceeds certain dimensions it will become so thin and fragile as to break almost without offering any resistance. The lateral strengths of prismatic bones of the same materials are as the areas of their sections and the distances of their centres of gravity directly; and their lengths and weights inversely. From the deductions which may be drawn from the preceding proposition Galileo very justly concludes that " there are limits set to the magnitudes of the works of nature and art, and that the size of ships, palaces, and temples, trees and animals, cannot surpass certain dimensions ; and lie observes that large animals have neither the strength nor speed proportionate to their bulk, and if there were any terrestrial animals much larger than those we know, they could hardly move, and would be much more subject to the most serious acci- dents : and also that it is impossible for nature to give bones to men, horses, or other animals, if they were enlarged to immense heights so as to perform their offices proportionally unless the structure of bones were composed of ma- terials much more firm and resisting, or that they were made of a thickness out of all proportion, which would render the figure and appearance of animals monstrous." Mr. Banks has found that an oak rod one inch thick, sup- ported at each end, will break by its own weight at the length of 57.45 feet, and a similar one of iron at 38.223 feet; Emerson also found that the cohesive strength of bone is double that of oak, whilst its specific gravity is only to that of the latter as 1656 to 1170, or as 92 to 65. In the Megatherium and Elephant the length of the bones of the legs is small com- pared with their diameters, and consequently they possess greater comparative strength as columns in supporting their ponderous super- structures. In the thigh bones of most animals an angle is formed by the head and neck of the bone with the axis of the body, which prevents the weight of the superstructure coming vertically upon the shaft, converts the bone into an elastic arch, and renders it capable of supporting the weight of the body in standing, leaping, and in falling from considerable altitudes. Joints.—Where the limbs are designed to move to and fro simply in one plane, the gin- glymoid or hinge-joint is applied; and where more extensive motions of the limbs are requi- site, the enarthrodial, or ball and socket joint, is introduced. These two kinds of joints predo- minate in the locomotive organs of the animal kingdom. Though the ginglymoid joint re- stricts the movements of the limbs to one plane, yet it secures that precision of direction and firmness of step recognized in their motions, as well as the steadiness with which they sup- port the trunk. The elbow, knee, and ankle- joints, in man more especially, though gingly- moid, are differently constituted and possess different degrees of mobility. The limbs re- volving upon the elbow-joint move in concen- tric planes, whilst those articulated at the knee allow, according to Weber, a rocking motion upon each other; the ankle has the greatest latitude of motion of these three ginglymoid joints. The enarthrodial joint has by far the most extensive power of motion, and is therefore selected for uniting the limbs to the trunk, as it is at the enarthrodial joints that the planes in which all the limbs move is determined. The enarthrodial joints permit of the several motions of the limbs termed pronation, supi- nation, flexion, extension, abduction, adduc- tion, and revolution upon the axis of the limb or bone about a conical area, whose apex is the axis of the head of the bone, and base cir- cumscribed by the distal extremity of the limb. In consequence of the structure of the ankle- joint, the foot may be directed out of the plane of the leg's motion. The limbs, in moving upon or about the heads of bones, describe arcs of circles, of which the centres of motion are the axes of the heads of the bones or the tubercles on which they revolve. Ligaments.— The office of the ligaments with respect to locomotion is to restrict the degree of flexion, extension, and other motions of the limbs within definite limits. The strength, form, elasticity, and points of attachment of ligaments are sufficient to effect the objects above mentioned ; they are, how- ever, destined mechanically to limit the motions rather than to expend their forces in supporting the weight of the limbs suspended beneath the joints to which they severally belong. The influence of atmospheric pressure in supporting the limbs was first noticed by Dr.