999 PISCES. and prominency of these folds there is great variety. In the Lump-fish (Cyclopterus) they are hardly perceptible; in the Perch there are only sixteen in each nasal sac, and in the Turbot twenty-four, whilst in the Conger or the Eel their number is prodigious, seeing that they extend along the entire length of the long tubular nostril. The rays themselves divide into secondary folds in the Sturgeon, and per- haps in other species ; in short, various modes of plication are adopted in different races, but the object obtained is the same in all cases, namely, an extension of the surface of the olfactory membrane. This surface exhibits nu- merous delicate vessels, and secretes an abun- dant mucosity which lubricates its interior. The olfactory nerve, at its commencement from the anterior tubercles of the brain, is sometimes single, sometimes double, and some- times divided into many filaments of variable number, length, and thickness in different ge- nera, which pass to the posterior or convex aspect of the olfactory sacculus. In its course and distribution differences are likewise observ- able. Thus, in some genera, as the Tetradons, it is exceedingly slender; in others, as in the Cod (Jig. 529), it islikewiseof great tenuity,but double or triple. The Rays and Sharks have it thick and single, and in these races it is sometimes so short as absolutely to appear merely an appendage of the brain. In the Tunny likewise it is simple throughout its whole length. In the Perch, about the middle of its course it divides into two, and its divi- sions become multiplied as it approaches the nose. In the Conger and Eel it is divided almost from its origin into two large trunks, each of which gives off successively a great number of branches, which subdivide into ramuscules to be distributed to all the lamella? of their long nostril. In many genera of Fishes the olfactory nerve, at the point where it reaches the nasal cavity, dilates into a ganglion, as may be seen in the Cod-fish, the Carp,and theCyprinidae generally; and, lastly, the terminal olfactory filaments penetrate into all the folds of the pituitary membrane, and terminate at their free margins. It does not appear, at least in the osseous Fishes, that the coverings of the nasal cavities or that their openings have any muscles calcu- lated to contract or to expand them. JEj/e.—The eye-ball of Fishes presents many peculiarities of structure which are rendered necessary by their habits for the purpose of re- taining the flattened figure of the cornea, and of meeting other circumstances of the condition under which aquatic vision has to be performed. The sclerotic coat which gives shape to the entire eye-ball is a dense and fibrous invest- ment enclosing the whole eye, except ante- riorly, where a space is left for the transparent cornea. Its thickness varies in different parts to a greater extent than in any other class of vertebrate animals, being generally greatest at the posterior part of the eye, so as to preserve the cup-shaped form of the eye. In the Stur- geon, for example, its thickness in this region is prodigious, and in the Cod-fish and Shark the same circumstance is remarkable, although in a less degree. Still further to secure the requisite form of the eye strong plates of cartilage are very frequently developed in the substance of the sclerotic, generally at the back of the eye, but sometimes round the cornea likewise, which in the larger Fishes occasionally become ossified, of which a notable example is met with in the Sword-fish (Xiphias), where the ossified portion of the sclerotic forms a bony cup of a spherical form surrounding the entire globe of the eye, except opposite the cornea, and where the aperture is left for the entrance of the optic nerve. In the Rays and Sharks among the Chon- dropterygii, the sclerotic, which is of a cartila- ginous texture, presents another peculiarity in the presence of a prominent tubercle, which projects externally to be moveably articulated with a pedicle of cartilage derived from the back of the orbit, which thus forms a pivot or centre for the movements of the eyeball. The proper cornea is an exceedingly thin laminated membrane, filling up the anterior opening of the sclerotic ; its thickness, however, is consi- derably increased by the external integument, which passes over it externally under the name of membrana conjunctiva: in some species indeed, as Cecilia and Gastrobranchus, such is the opacity of this tegumentary membrane that all vision is precluded. Immediately be- neath the sclerotic there is generally a large quantity of fatty cellular membrane; this is, however, sometimes wanting, but occasionally, as for example in the Moon-fish ( Orthagoriscus MolaJ, its thickness is very considerable. On removing this cellular investment a deli- cate membrane presents itself, of a brilliant metallic lustre (membrana urgentea), which indeed from its softness resembles rather a layer of pigment than a true tunic of the eye- ball. It is this layer which spreads anteriorly over the front of the iris, giving it the metallic brilliancy for which in Fishes it is so remark- able. The iris itself is formed as in other Verte- brata, but the pupil generally remains fixed and motionless; the most remarkable pecu- liarities noticeable in this part of the eye having reference to the shape of the pupil, which is very various in its form. Thus in the Grey Shark (Galeus communis) it is quadrangular; in the Rays and Pleuronectidae the pupillary aperture is closed by a kind of palmate mem- brane, which hangs down like a curtain from its upper border; while in one singular case, the Anableps, there is a double pupil as well as a double cornea, although in all other parti- culars the structure of the eye agrees with that of ordinary Fishes. The choroid of Fishes presents no peculiarity of structure worthy of notice; it is very vascu- lar and deeply stained with black or dark- coloured pigment. As in the higher animals, it is separable into two layers : the outer or true choroid, which is properly the vascular layer, is of considerable thickness, while the inner'layer forms the tunica Ruyschiana. This latter tunic, as it approaches the margin of the