INSTINCT. a thread to the spot on which lie is stationed, by means of his fore feet, which are much larger and longer than the others, he darts on his victim with such rapidity, and so true an aim, that he seldom misses it. He is pre- vented from falling by the thread just men- tioned, which acts as a kind of anchor, and enables him to recover his station."* Again, the kmd of spider that has received the name of Geometric, " having laid the foundation of her net, and drawn the skeleton of it, by spinning a number of rays, converging to a centre, next proceeds, setting out from that point, to spin a spiral line of unadhesive web, like that of the rays, which it intersects, and after numerous circumvolutions finishes this at the circumference. This line, in conjunction with the rays, serves as a scaffolding for her to walk over, and also keeps the rays properly stretched. Her next labour is to spin a spiral or labyrinthiform line from the circumference towards the centre, but which stops somewhat short of it; this line is the most important part of the snare. It consists of a fine thread, stud- ded with minute viscid globules, like dew,which by their viscid quality retain the insects which fly into the net. The snare being thus finished, the little geometrician selects a concealed spot in the vicinity, where she constructs a cell, in which she may hide herself and watch for game; of the capture of which she is informed by the vibrations of a line of communication, drawn between her cell and the centre of her snare."f 3. Many animals are guided by instinct to form habitations for themselves, of very various kinds, for protection against injury and against cold, from the simple contrivance of the earth- worm, which closes the orifice of its hole with leaves or straw, up to the elaborate structures of the bee, the ant, or the beaver. Here we observe a singular but easily understood diffe- rence between the inhabitants of water and air. The greater number of the more delicate animals that inhabit the sea, chiefly of the Mollusca and Crustacea, are provided by nature with shells, or very firm integuments, evidently for protec- tion against the violence of the waves, in the formation of which instinct has little or no share; but there are some of the Annelides inhabiting water, as the Sabella and Terebella, and the larvae of some moths, which have a sin- gular instinct enabling them to form habitations sufficient for their own protection, "by collect- ing grains of sand and fragments of decayed shells, &c. which they agglutinate together by means of a viscid exudation, so as to form a firm defensive covering, like a coat of mail." This may be stated as the intermediate link be- tween the habitations given to the Mollusca and Crustacea by nature, and those which many land animals have organs and instincts enabling them to form for themselves. " The manoeuvres of the terebella are best observed by taking it out of its tube and placing * Kirby. vol. ii. p. 298. t Ibid. p. 295. See also Darwin's Zuon. vol. i. p. 253. it under water upon sand. It is then seen to unfold all the coils of its body, to extend its tentacula in every direction, often to a length exceeding an inch and a half, and to catch, by their means, small fragments of shells and the larger particles of sand. These it drags to- wards its head, carrying them behind the scales which project from the anterior and lower part of the head, where they are immediately ce- mented by the glutinous matter which exudes from that part of the surface. Bending the head alternately from side to side, while it con- tinues to apply the materials of its tube, the terebella has very soon formed a complete collar, which it sedulously employs itself to lengthen at every part of the circumference with an activity and perseverance highly inte- resting. For the purpose of fixing the different fragments compactly, it presses them into their places with the erected scales, at the same time retracting the body. Hence the fragments, being raised by the scales, are generally fixed by their posterior edges, and thus, overlaying each other, often give the tube an imbricated appearance. " Having formed a tube of half an inch or an inch in length, the terebella proceeds to burrow; for which purpose it directs its head against the sand, and contracting some of the posterior rings, effects a slight extension of the head, which thus slowly makes its way through the mass before it, availing itself of the materials which it meets with in its course, and so con- tinues to advance til! the whole tube is com- pleted. After this has been accomplished, the animal turns itself within the tube, so that its head is next the surface, ready to receive the water which brings it food, and is instrumental in its respiration. In summer the whole task is completed in four or five hours ; but in cold weather, when the worm is more sluggish, and the gluten is secreted more scantily, its progress is considerably slower."* The habitation formed by the water-spider, which is not exposed to the violence of the sea, shews much greater delicacy of workmanship, as well as greater variety of instinct. " The insects that frequent the waters," says Kirby, " require, as well as those that inhabit the earth, predaceous animals to keep them within due limits, and the water-spider is one of the most remarkable on whom that office is imposed by the Creator. To this end her in- stinct instructs her to fabricate a kind of diving- bell, for which purpose she usually selects still waters. Her house is an oval cocoon filled with air, and lined with silk, from which threads issue in every direction, and are fast- ened to the surrounding plants ; in this cocoon, which is open below, she watches for her prey, and even appears to pass the winter, when she closes the opening. It is most commonly en- tirely under water, but its inhabitant has filled it with air for respiration, by which she is ena- bled to live in it. She conveys the air in the following manner: she usually swims upon her back, when her abdomen is enveloped in a * Roget's Briclgewater Treatise, vol. i. p. 279.