847 OSSEOUS TISSUE. parts of the osseous system, of which we need only adduce as instances the fishing filaments upon the back of the head of Lophius, and the powerful weapons of Silurus and Batistes else- where described (vide Art. Pisces), where muscles are implanted into the spear-hke arms here formed entirely from the cuticle, although brought into close union with the bones of the real skeleton. Having arrived thus far and found in the cases alluded to that epidermic spines, when thus far exaggerated in their dimensions, are really converted into fin-rays and moved by appropriate muscles, it is impossible to deny that such organs may have a similar origin in other parts of the skeleton, and that the rays of the azygos, dorsal, caudal, and anal fins, as well as the mterspinous bones, which cannot be re- ferred to any known element of the endoskeleton, are in reality derivations from the exoskeleton, although implanted in the flesh and wielded by an appropriate system of cutaneous muscles. Even in their internal texture these pieces be- come assimilated to real bones, and that to such an extent that it even yet remains for the minute anatomist and the microscopical observer to point out satisfactory differences between the two skeletons when they thus become blended together, notwithstanding the wide interval which separates the scale, the hair, or the fea- ther, all modifications of the epidermic system, from the tooth in its fully developed state, or from perfectly organized bone permeated by vessels and nourished by interstitial deposition. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—In addition to the authorities quotr-d in the text the comparative osteologist is re- ferred to the following sources of information. Cuvier, Lecons d'anatomie comparee, 5 torn. 8vo. ann. VIII — XIV. Cuvier, Recherches sur les ossemens fossiles, 5 torn. 4to. 1821-24. Cuvier et Valenciennes, Hist. nat. des poissons, torn. 1, 1828. Jo, Bapt. Spi.r, Cephalogenesis sive capitis ossei structure, formatio et signilicatio per omnes anirnalium classes, familias, genera, ac astates, fol. Monach. 1815. Carl Chistuv Car us, Von den Ur- theilen des Knochen und Schalengeriistes, fol. Leipzig, 1828. ( T. Ri/mer Jones.) OSSEOUS TISSUE. Bone. Bone substance.—The tissue of bone has, within the last few years, undergone close examination by various anatomists of note. These exami- nations have been followed with much success, and have led to much increase of knowledge of the nature of bone, both as regards its deve- lopement and its minute structure. The general character, the varieties of exter- nal conformation, and the anatomical relation of bone to the contiguous textures, have been ably related in a previous article. Under the present head it is proposed to treat only of the minute structure and of the developement of bone. For the sake of precision in the description, the elements which conjointly form bone, or which are commonly found connected with osseous formation, will be considered under separate heads. But before proceeding to this consideration of the separate parts it will be well to give a general description of them collectively in their natural relations. The canals which are found every where traversing variously the substance of bone, and giving passage to the bloodvessels for the nourishment of the tissue, are known by the name of Haversian canals, Clopton Havers having been the first to give a full description of them. The parietes of these canals have a laminate arrangement. The lamina? themselves are numerous and placed concentrically, the in- ternal lamina, that which is in immediate con- tact with the vessel or vessels, being the most distinctly marked, and each succeeding one, as you proceed from the canal, having a less dis- tinct outline. Besides the concentric laminae there are others which surround the exterior of the bone, and may be known as the superficial laminae. In connection with the latter as well as the former system of laminae are a third set, which can- not be traced to belong to either of the foregoing orders, but which are placed between them, and form the bond of union between each system. Late writers on this subject have said much of the corpuscles of bone; these are small cells of oval form placed between the laminae, and having numerous distinct tubes running from them in almost every direction. They have not inaptly been compared to a spider with many legs. The corpuscles, or, as others have called them, the calcigerous cells, have a definite rela- tion to the Haversian canals and to each other. These points, however, will be considered in detail in a subsequent page. The foregoing are the leading points that are spoken of in treating of the structure of bone, namely, the Haversian canals, the osseous la- mina, and the corpuscles. But, upon a closer view, it will be seen that the laminae only are bone ; the canals and corpuscles are spaces ex- isting in bone, and are not really necessary to the existence of osseous tissue, though they are necessary to its existence where the amount of substance is appreciable to the unaided senses. Having given a general sketch of the struc- ture as it appears when placed under a low magnifying power, it will be well to describe particularly each of the points which have been noticed. The most important and that which will be placed first in the division is the bone sub- stance of which the laminae are composed. Of the substance of bone, or hyalitic sub- stance.-—Writers have, with one or two excep- tions, considered the substance of bone as ho- mogeneous and without appreciable structure. If, however, it be examined under advantageous circumstances, with high magnifying powers, there will be no difficulty in detecting a very definite though delicate structure. For the purpose of examination it is best to take a very small portion of a thin plate of bone; such may be found in the cethmoid bone of small ani- mals, as of the rat. If the piece be well se-