650 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Spinal Cord.} Fig. 373. a b Second abdominal ganglion of a greenfinch, slightly compressed under the compressor. The course of the nerve-tubes only is represented. a, fibres passing in ; b, emerging fibres ; c, sur- rounding fibres. The meshes for the reception of ganglion globules are shown. Fig. 374. A small piece of the otic ganglion of the sheep, slightly compressed, showing the interlacement of the inter- nal fibres and the grey matter. {After Valentin.) tin, travel round the margin of the ganglion, and to these he gives the name of umspinnende Fasern, surrounding fibres, and some fibres pass from them to the more central ones, or from the latter to the former. Nerve-vesicles exist at the circumference of the ganglion as well as in its interior, and to them is due the peculiar grey colour of that body. The best mode of examining these points is to select the smallest ganglia of very small animals, birds, mice, &c.; these, when sub- jected to compression, become very transpa- rent, and display much of their intrinsic ar- rangement. Or thin slices of large ganglia may be placed under the microscope, and when torn up by needles the disposition of the nerve- vesicles and the caudate processes, when pre- sent, are rendered visible. And none is more suitable for this purpose than the Casserian ganglion of the fifth nerve, which by the ab- sence of a dense sheath and its greater loose- ness of texture is more easily examined. It is a highly important problem, in minute anatomy, to determine whether there are any nerve-tubes which terminate in the grey matter of the ganglion, or originate in it,—which in short are not continued through the ganglion. At present we are unable to state further than that the tubes appear to have an intimate connection with the nerve-vesicles wherever the latter may be found, and that they often appear to be con- tinuous with the sheaths of the nerve-vesicles. Fig. 375. Nerve vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion covered bif their sheatlis of nucleated particles, to shew the iuti- mute relation of the nerve-tubes to them. t, t, nerve-tubes ; v, v, vesicles. There does not appear to be any material difference of structure between the ganglions of the sympathetic and those of the cerebro-spinal system, excepting, as Henle states, the exist- ence of a greater number of gelatinous fibres in the former. Of the cerebro-spinal centre.—The nervous mass which occupies the cavities of the cra- nium and spine doubtless constitutes one great centre, as there is a perfect continuity through- out all its parts. But the differences of external form and characters in some regions of it, and the obvious diversity of endowment of the nerves connected with certain portions, denote and justify an anatomical as well as a physiological subdivision of it into segments, each of which is a centre of nervous action independent of the rest, yet so connected with them that the func- tions of all are made to harmonize in the most perfect manner. The subdivision which the external anatomy indicates, although not perfectly coincident with that which the differences of function would suggest, has been so long sanctioned by usage and is so convenient for description, that no advantage would be gained by adopting any other. Our description of the cerebro-spinal centre, or axis as it has also been called, will be given under the following heads: 1. the spinal cord; 2. the encephalon, including a, the medulla oblongata; b, the mesocephale; c, the cerebellum; d, the cerebrum. 1. Of the spinal cord.—Syn. Spinal mar- row, Medulla spinalis; Fr. La motile epinilre ; Germ. Das Rvckenmark. The following are the anatomical limits which may be assigned to the spinal cord. It occupies a large portion of the spinal canal, terminating inferiorly at a point which, in different subjects, ranges be- tween the last dorsal and the second lumbar vertebra. Below this point the sheath formed by the dura mater contains that leash of nerves which is called the Cauda equina, in