780 OPTIC NERVES. justify the inference that the fifth nerve endows the eye with its general sensibility, and also exerts some influence over the nutrition of that organ. This distinguished physiologist divided the fifth nerve within the cranium of an animal and found the tactile sensibility of the surface of the eye completely abolished by the expe- riment; opacity, ulceration, and sloughing of the cornea, followed by expulsion of the hu- mours, and total destruction of the eye subse- quently ensued; and nearly the same results have been observed to occur in the human subject from disease affecting the fifth nerve within the cranium. It must be perfectly ob- vious, however, that these facts have no bearing upon the question more immediately under discussion. An impartial review of this highly interesting question leads to the conviction that notwith- standing the great plausibility of the arguments by which the contrary view has been sustained, there is as yet no evidence that in man any other nerve than the optic enjoys special sensi- bility to light. Ordinary tactile sensibility.—Although the optic nerves are endowed with such acute sensibility to the influence of light, they would seem to possess little ordinary tactile sensibi- lity,—a circumstance the more surprising, as it is difficult to imagine any impressions more delicate than those of light; and where nerves evince such exquisite susceptibility of excite- ment from the stimulus of that imponderable agent, an equal obedience to those rougher stimulants which produce such marked effects on the common sentient nerves might at least be expected. Magendie infers from his experiments on living rabbits that the retina in them is not susceptible of pain from mechanical irritation; so much so, that puncturing or tearing that nervous expansion appeared to him to cause these animals no sort of suffering.* Precisely the same results followed from injuries inflicted by him on the retina in fish and reptiles, although in birds, cats, and dogs similar expe- riments seemed to create some uneasiness. This physiologist asserts that the human retina also is devoid of ordinary tactile sensibility, for in operating for cataract he has proved that the membrane in question exhibits little if any susceptibility of pain. His experiments were likewise extended to the optic nerves; and in the course of his in- vestigations frequent opportunities were afforded for testing the comparative sensibility of the second and fifth pairs. In all the mammalia, whether the injury was inflicted in front of or behind the chiasma, the second pair seemed quite insensible to mechanical irritation; and whenever the slightest disturbance affected the fifth nerve, the animal, by its cries and struggles, immediately manifested the most acute suffer- ings. The phenomena noticed in extirpation of the human eye are favourable to the same views, * Journal de Physiologic, t. iv. for division of the optic nerve in this operation is not attended with the agonizing torture which an equal amount of injury to a nerve of the same dimensions endowed with common sensi- bility would unavoidably produce. This fact should have some weight with physiologists in their attempts to form a just estimate of the properties of the nerve under consideration, although the results of such observations are inconclusive; for in many cases of extirpation of the organ the optic nerve is itself diseased, and under such circumstances it would be unfair to argue from the known effects of injuries on a diseased structure, to the probable effects of injuries on the same structure when healthy. The optic nerve is not singular in its insensi- bility to pain from mechanical irritation, for experiments on other nerves of special sense countenance the belief that some of them labour under the same disability. Magendie laid bare the olfactory of a dog, and the animal did not manifest the slightest pain when the nerve was compressed, pinched, or even torn; and when the auditory of a rabbit was subjected to similar rough treatment at his hands, the animal afforded no indication of suffering.* The specific stimulants of the organs of sense act however at times so intensely as to produce painfully disagreeable impressions on their re- spective organs, and it therefore becomes diffi- cult to reconcile, with the foregoing statements, facts such as the following, which apparently favour the opinion that the optic as well as other nerves of special sense possess common sensibility. " An intense light dazzles the eye so as to become actually insupportable. A harsh or discordant sound produces a most distress- ing impression on the organ of hearing; and certain odours are disgusting and intolerable to the pituitary membrane." In estimating the weight to which these latter facts are entitled, it should be recollected that the above sensations still preserve their specific characters, no matter how intensely disagreeable they become : thus light, although sufficiently brilliant to dazzle the retina, still continues to be a luminous impression, and in like manner sonorous vibrations and odours, though actually offensive to their respective organs, are still nothing more than sounds and scents. So that on the whole, however questionable may be the propriety of such experimental zeal as would induce a French physiologist to test the sensi- bility of the human retina in operations for cata- ract, the general proposition that the optic nerve in man and the higher animals enjoys little, if any, tactile sensibility, seems pretty well es- tablished. Effects of stimulants.—Although the optic nerve betrays little indication of pain in con- sequence of injuries, nevertheless mechanical and other stimulants produce upon it peculiar effects : mechanical injuries and irritants arouse its special sensibility instead of exciting painful sensations—their ordinary effects on common sentient nerves. * Journal de Physiologic, t. iv.