502 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. timious with that of the duct. Such observa- tions seem to me in a great measure conclusive on this subject; and I am strengthened in this view by the fact, that the capsules of the Malpighian bodies of the kidney are now universally considered to be perfectly closed vesicles, whereas they are in reality the ex- panded wall of the duct, as I have lately shown by several kinds of proof.* But what- ever may be the real fact in the matter under dispute, it is admitted by all that the epithelium is formed in enormous quantities, and is being continually thrown off; which is the circum- stance chiefly intended to be insisted on at present. In the healthy bile also, in the urine, and in various other secretions Dr. Henle has met with particles of epithelium detached from the excretory passages, and in different stages of decay. Turning to those two great emunctories, the liver and kidneys, in the secretions of which no trace of the epithelium of the secreting part of the organs can be detected, we might be disposed, on a slight consideration, to conclude the evidence they furnish to be unfavourable to the general position here advanced. We must, indeed, be content for the present to acknow- ledge that it is less plain and direct, and shrouded in our great ignorance concerning the play of chemical affinities in living bodies; but still it is too interesting and important to be passed over in silence. Though the epithe- lium of these organs be not detached entire, as in many other cases, there is much, in each instance, to explain the discrepancy consistently with the theory in question. 1 have described the lobules of the liver as consisting of a solid plexus of capillary blood- vessels, in the meshes of which is a congeries of epithelial particles. We possess no accurate account of the mode of termination of the biliary ducts; but it seems clear, from the small meshes of the vascular plexus being completely filled by the epithelium, that no true ducts, i. e. tubes, penetrate the substance of the lobules: the tubular ducts probably commence on the surface of the lobules. The epithelium of the lobules is doubtless conti- nuous with that of the ducts, but the cavity of the ducts and their basement membrane termi- nate at the surface of each lobule. Though the cavity of the ducts be not continued within the lobule, yet it is very possible that injection urged along the ducts might insinuate itself by the side of the epithelium into the interstices of the vascular plexus, and thus, like the epithelium itself, form a solid plexus within the lobule. This appearance probably led Mr. Kiernan to describe the termination of the ducts as forming a plexus within the lobule, the lobular biliary plexus. And this description must be allowed to be essentially correct; for although the cavity of the duct cease at the surface, the epithelium of the lobule is, in respect of function, its real continuation. I have further observed, that although the epithe- * Phil. Trans. 1842, Pt. I. p. 59. Hum of the lobule has, on the whole, a plexi- form arrangement, yet its particles in some measure afiect a radiating direction from the central axis towards the circumference, perhaps towards certain parts only; and when a lobule is broken up by violence, the resulting frag- ments of epithelium are apt to consist of a linear series of particles. Many of the particles, too, are smaller than the rest, and have all the appearance of having been recently formed and as yet incompletely developed. It is also remarkable that the particles should contain granules of oily matter in their interior; for although chemical analysis has detected diffe- rences between this substance and cholesterine,* yet as the chief peculiar principles of the bile are forms of hydro-carbon, the coincidence cannot be an accidental one. It is not con- tended that the contents of these particles are the finished secretion, but rather that their chemical constitution undergoes some modifi- cations during the disintegrating process. And it is worthy of notice, that in many cases where the decarbonizing function of the lungs is slowly but greatly interfered with, as in phthisis pulmonalis, and where the liver is consequently called into increased activity as a compensating organ, these oily globules exist in such abun- dance and size as to gorge and swell the parti- cles (and therefore the whole viscus) to nearly double their natural bulk.f But this is not all the evidence, that this epithelium is the source of the bile. I am informed by my friend, Dr. W. Budd, that Dr. Henle in his recent edition of Soemmering, of which I have not yet been able to obtain a copy, describes the epithelial particles as appearing yellow or yellowish brown in direct light, and as probably containing bile. He also states that the presence of the fatty globules in the epithelium is inconstant, and corresponds with the varying fatty contents of the bile. He is unable at present to determine in what manner the contents of the particles find their way into the ducts. The foregoing facts, taken together, afford a very strong presumption that the epithelial particles of the lobules are theagent assimilating the secretion from the blood. It would be still more satisfactory if particles could be found undergoing decay. Meanwhile it seems im- possible to assign to them any other office, if it be granted that the sole function of the liver is to secrete bile. For in the case of other glands, the only other use that can with any degree of plausibility be attributed to the epi- thelium is that of its serving to defend the secreting membrane from the contact of the secretion, and to prevent the latter from re- entering the blood. And it cannot exist for that purpose in the liver, because it is itself the only structure besides the bloodvessels, and does not constitute a lining membrane. The peculiarity in the minute structure of the kidneys, which bears on the present ques- tion, is of a kind entirely different from any presented by the liver, and yet tends to establish a similar conclusion. It consists of a special * Kuehn, Kastner's Archiv. xiii. p. 337. t Author in Lancet, Jan. 1842.