PARTURITION. 906 which the foetus attains a size utterly incom- patible to pass through the small pelvis of the mother were it not for the extraordinary elas- ticity of the pubic ligament, being capable of allowing the ends of the pubic bones to diverge from each other to the distance of nearly an inch and a half. The capability of the pelvis being enlarged by this mechanism depends upon the shortness of its transverse, and the great length of its antero-posterior or sacro-pubal diameter, the ossa innominata running forwards from each side of the sacrum in a nearly parallel direction, or rather forming an isoskeles triangle, its apex at the pubes, its base at the sacrum. This greater length of the antero-posterior to that of the transverse diameter may be traced with few exceptions along the whole chain of pelviferous vertebrata until we reach the human subject, and even here, until the age of puberty, we find a similar relation between these dia- meters. This form of pelvis is eminently adapted for dilatation during parturition; the ossa innominata, moving, as it were, upon a hinge at their sacro-iliac synchondroses, are capable of a considerable separation at their pubic ends, by which means the pelvis is greatly enlarged and passage of the foetus much facilitated. In some animals, as cows, the swelling and softening of the ligamento-cartilaginous unions is distinctly seen on the approach of labour, the lumbar vertebrae and sacrum sinking be- tween the ilia, and these bones " slipping," as it is called, over each other at their sacro-iliac symphyses as the animal moves her hind legs. The axis of the pelvis in animals being with few exceptions parallel with the spine, and the outlet from the formation of the sacrum being so large, it will be seen that up to the Rumi- nantia the mechanism of parturition is extremely simple, the more so as until we reach this class the uterus in great measure preserves its tubu- lar formation, rendering it next to impossible that the foetus should come in any other direc- tion than with its long diameter corresponding to the axis of the canal through which it has to pass. In the Marsupiata the foetus is expelled at so early a stage of developement, and is therefoie so small, that little or no dilatation of the pelvis is required; in these animals we see the pelvis well developed, and the difference between the length of the transverse and antero-posterior diameters inconsiderable : in them it is probable that little or no separation of the pubic bones takes place during parturition. In the other and higher classes of the Mam- malia the hard and well developed head of the foetus and its inflexible limbs, especially in the Ruminantia,as also the horse, ass, &c, present very considerable obstructions to its passage through the pelvis, and require that it should take a certain position during labour in order that it may be born with such a degree of faci- lity and within such a period of time as shall not endanger its own life or that of its mother. Although the pelvis among the higher Mam- malia still presents many remarkable points of difference fiom that of the human race, least perhaps in the Quadrumana, still on the other hand the mechanism of parturition in these animals resembles in many respects this process in man. The embryo has a somewhat similar position in the uterus as it has in the human subject. In the early periods of pregnancy in both cases, the limbs stand off from the trunk, whereas in the latter months they are pressed close to the body. The lower extremities or hind legs in animals are always turned upon the abdomen ; in some instances the knees are bent, in others not. The arms of the child are crossed upon the breast; in animals the forelegs are usually placed along the side of the head and generally a little below it; it is rare that one or both are found above the head, although it has some- times occurred that the two forelegs have been found crossing each other over the head. The forelegs are seldom found bent down under the abdomen. The embryo usually lies upon its belly, or on one side; and from being scarcely ever found upon the back it may be presumed that this position is very rare.* The head is mostly turned towards the os uteri, although cases are by no means uncommon, even among the larger animals, of its being turned to the fundus uteri. In the larger animals (mare, cow, sheep, goat, &c.) the embryo at first lies tolerably uncon- strained, whereas at a later period it descends into the smaller part of the uterus, and hence at this time we usually find the nose bent down upon the breast. In the child this position with the chin upon the breast exists from a very early period. In the smaller animals, viz. the dog, cat, rat, &c, the head at the end of pregnancy mostly lies flat on the lower jaw, and therefore presents with the nose, whereas in the larger animals the occiput presents, and this probably with- draws again as labour comes on. The ears are always pressed close to the head, being turned either forwards or backwards; they are usually found bent forwards in the dog, cat, and horse, and backwards in the cow, sheep, goat, rabbit, hare, &c. Although the human foetus usually presents also with the head, the whole mechanism of its parturition is very different from that of the ani- mals above-mentioned ; the angles of the pelvic axes with the spine and with each other, and the relative size of the antero-posterior and transverse diameters, are so different that we find the greater part of the process subservient to laws which do not exist in the lower animals; nevertheless the grand primary law with which we commenced holds equally good in the hu- man subject as in the lowest ovipara, and upon this depends the great distinction between natural and unnatural presentations; for so long as the long diameter of the child is parallel with the axis of the passage through which it comes, the child will present with its cephalic or its pelvic extremity, and can be born in that position ; whereas if its long diameter does not correspond with that of the axis of the pelvis, * Jocrg.