INSTINCT. 5 observe by attention to our own feelings on such occasions is, that while we feel the sen- sations of hunger and thirst, we feel also a pro- pensity, all but irresistible, to swallow what- ever grateful food or drink is in the mouth. This propensity is not only prior to reason, but stronger than reason, and prompts us to action more surely and more energetically than the mere recollection of the effects previously resulting from food or drink taken into the sto- mach could have done. If we reflect further, we shall find that there are various other sensations, with which we can feel, in our own persons, that an instinctive impulse is naturally linked. The term Appe- tite does not express the whole of these, although it is only by referring to the action which it uniformly prompts that an appetite can be distinguished from another sensation. Sympathetic movements, such as breathing, coughing, sneezing, vomiting, &c. are ascribed by Whytt and others to sensations ; and laugh- ter, weeping, the expression of feeling in the countenance and features, &c. are strictly refer- able to emotions of mind, and in the perform- ance of all these actions, a propensity which may be called strictly instinctive, because prior to experience, and independent of reason- ing, may be frequently and distinctly felt, and is from the first equally effectual in exciting very complex muscular movements, as the impulse to swallow food in the mouth. We may specify several other kinds or modes of action, which we are all conscious of frequently per- forming, and which we perform on many oc- casions in obedience, not to any effort of reason, but to a truly instinctive impulse, natu- rally consequent on certain sensations or emotions, and felt even in adult age to be inde- pendent of, as they are in the infant prior to, any anticipation of remote consequences,—viz. 1. those which are prompted by the instinct of self-preservation, (as the winking of the eye- lids when the eyes are threatened with injury, the shrinking of any limb or part of the body which is struck, the projection of the arms when we are about to tall forwards on the face,* the act of crying from pain or from fear); 2. those which are prompted by the instinct of shame, as when the saliva escapes from the mouth, when the sphincters fail in their office, or the sense of modesty is out- raged ; 3. those which are prompted by the instinct of imitation, existing more or less in the early stage of all human existence, and whereby we are all led to fashion our language, manners, and habits, on the model of those around us, and particularly of those persons with whom we have either the most frequent inter- course, or the intercourse which is most fitted to make an impression on our minds; 4. those which are prompted by the emotions of affec- * Let any one try the experiment of attempting to fall forward on liis face, with his arms extended at his sides, and he will he immediately conscious of the instinctive impulse which urges liiin to throw forward his arms ; and which he feels dis- tinctly and resists with difficulty, even when he knows that he is about to fall only on soft matter which cannot injure him. tion and pity, or still more decidedly by the impulse of maternal love, on witnessing the helpless condition of young infants.* We do not enter into details on these subjects at pre- sent, but merely mention them as examples, in which we may safely and legitimately avail ourselves of the evidence of consciousness to assure ourselves of the essential peculiarity, and of the paramount authority, of the in- stinctive impulse, as distinguished from the voluntary effort, which results from a train of reasoning. It has been often said that the nature of instinct is absolutely mysterious and inscru- table ; but if what has now been stated he correct, this can be said of instinct only in the same sense in which it may be said of all mental acts without exception ; the essence of mind, like that of matter, being wholly in- scrutable. The churucters of the instinctive impulse may be distinguished as clearly as those of any other mental act, in the only way in which any such act can be distin- guished, viz. by attention to our own conscious- ness ; although we never could have antici- pated a priori that this kind of mental impulse could have extended to so long continued and complex actions, and to the concerted ope- rations of so many individuals, as the operations of some animals indicate. Having satisfied ourselves of the existence of certain instinctive impulses, both in the lower animals and in ourselves, essentially dis- tinct from those voluntary efforts which are guided by reason, we need not be perplexed at finding that there is much difficulty in some individual instances, in determining to which class of mental acts particular actions ought to be referred. However difficult it may be in any in- dividual instance, to decide whether an action, of man or of animals, is the effect of a blind in- stinct, or of reason, anticipating and desiring its consequences, there can be no doubt or difficulty as to the fact, that these two distinct kinds of mental determination to the perform- ance of actions exist. Neither do we consider it of any import- ance to enter on the metaphysical speculations which ingenious men have hazarded at different times as to the nature of the agent, by which the instinctive actions may be supposed to be immediately excited. Some philosophers have been so strongly impressed with the admirable adaptation of means to ends which these phe- nomena present, in animals manifestly devoid of reason, that they have believed them to be in all cases the immediate offspring of the divine intelligence, and have expressed their theory in the form of an axiom, " Deus anima brutqrum," which, it is humbly conceived, is admissible only in the same sense in which we assent to the more general assertion, " Deus anima mundi." Mr. Kirby, in his very learned and elaborate Bridgewater Treatise on the History, Habits, and Instincts of Animals, seems to favour the [* The greater number of the'actions enumerated may, however, be accounted for on the principle of reflux nervous action, now so generally admitted by physiologists. —Ed.]