270 MARSUPIALIA. Fig. 94. Pltascolomys. forms a complete bony tube, about half an inch in length, with an irregular exterior; it is wedged in between the mastoid and articular processes of the temporal bone. In the Potoroo the bony circle is incomplete at the upper part; in the Perameles and Da- syures the tympanic bone forms a semicircle, the posterior part being deficient, and the tym- panic membrane being there attached to a des- cending process of the squamous element of the temporal bone. Here we have a near ap- proach to the form of tympanic bone in Birds, but we have a still closer resemblance to its condition both in Birds and Reptiles, in its want of union with and relations to the petrous element of the temporal bone. In the Rodent quadrupeds the tympanic, petrous, and mas- toid elements of the temporal bone are always anchylosed together; this condition is well shown in the skull of the Porcupine and Beaver, in which the mastoid element sends down a thin obtuse process behind the petro- tympanic portion. It is to the expansion of the petro-tympanic, and not of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, that the enlarge- ment of the tympanic cavity is due in the Rodentia, and this expansion forms in that order, as is well known, a large bulla ossea, which is situated anterior and internal to the mastoid process. In many of the Marsupials, as the Dasyures, Petaurists, Perameles, Po- toroos, and Koala, there is also a large bulla ossea for the purpose of increasing the extent of the auditory cavity; but, with one single ex- ception, the Wombat, this bulla is not formed by the tympanic or any other element of the temporal bone, but by the expansion of the base of the great ala of the sphenoid bone. In Acrobutes and Perameles lagotis, in addition to the preceding bulla there is also an external dilatation of the petrous element of the tem- poral bone, which thus forms a second and smaller bulla on each side, behind the large bulla ossea formed by the sphenoid. In other Marsupials the petrousbone is of smallsize,gene- rally limited to the office of protecting the parts of the internal ear, and sometimes, as in the Koala, is barely visible at the exterior of the base of the skull. The petrous and mastoid elements are usually anchylosed together in the Marsu- pials, and the mastoid portion appears in the occipital region of the skull of the Koala, between the ex-occipital bones and squamous portion of the temporal. The petrous element of the temporal bone appears externally in the corresponding part of the skull of a young Emeu. In the Kangaroos and Wombat the petro-mastoid bone presents a larger size, and is visible in two situations on the outside of the skull, viz. at the usual place at the basis, where the petrous portion is wedged in be- tween the basilar bone, ex-occipital and sphe- noid, and again at the side of the cranium, where the mastoid portion appears between the squamous, ex-occipital, and supra-occipital bones. In the Wombat it sends outwards the strong compressed process which terminates the lateral boundaries of the occipital plane of the cranium ; but this process is entirely due to the ex-occipitals in the Koala and other Marsupials. The auditory chamber of the ear is aug- mented in the Phalangers, the Koala, the Kan- garoos, and Potoroo, by a continuation of air- cells into the base or origin of the zygomatic process ; but the extent of the bony air-cham- bers communicating with the tympanum is proportionally greatest in the Flying Opossums, where, besides the sphenoid bulla, the mastoid element and the whole of the zygomatic pro- cess of the temporal bone are expanded to form air-cells with very thin and smooth walls, thus presenting an interesting analogy in the structure of the cranium to the class of birds. The direction of the bony canal of the organ of hearing corresponds, as in the placental Mammalia, with the habits of the species. The meatus is directed outwards and a little forwards in the carnivorous Dasyures; out- wards and a little backwards in the Perameles and Phalangers; outwards, backwards, and upright in the Kangaroos, and directly out- wards in the Petaurists and Wombat; but the differences of direction are but slightly marked. The squamous element of the temporal bone