557 MYRIAPODA. Fig. 323. is thrown off that the new segments become elongated, and the Julus then appears suddenly to have acquired six new divisions to its body. The production of new legs is equally cu- rious. Up to the present period the animal has but six legs (fig. 322, b a), but four addi- tional pairs are nevertheless in the course of formation. These at present exist only as eight minute nipple-shaped prominences on the under surface of the sixth and seventh segments (be), four on each, covered by the common tegu- ment, which, we have seen, is becoming deci- duous. The three single pairs of legs that now exist as the only locomotive organs are attached, one pair to the prothorax or second segment, one to the third and one to the fifth segment. The fourth, or segment intermediate between these last, never possesses any legs, but in the female contains the outlets of the organs of ge- neration. The general appearance of the ani- mal has now become less delicate, the head has acquired a darker colour, and a faint broad patch (fig. 322, p) is now making its appear- ance at the anterior part of the seventh seg- ment. This patch, which is permanent ^22. through all the ear- lier changes of the animal, is of the greatest utility in de- termining the pro- duction of new seg- ments. It is in the segment imme- diately posterior to this that the male organs find their out- let, a circumstance the more remarkable from the fact that this outlet is in the anterior part of the original germinal space, and at the bursting of the egg this is very near the termination of the body. Such was the condition of the young Julus one hour after leaving the amnion. It soon began to exhibit its animal powers, to shew the instincts peculiar to its species, and to be sensibly affected by ex- ternal causes. In less than six hours from the bursting of the amnion the little creatures were in motion. At first the antennae were the or- gans employed. They were moved slowly to and fro, and seemed to gain power by use. In a short time the limbs began to be extended, and the animal slowly raised itself upon them for the first time. Its first efforts at locomotion were exceedingly feeble, but it gradually gained strength. At the end of twelve hours the em- bryos crawled slowly about, but moving the an- tennae briskly. On exposing them to a strong light a marked effect was produced in their movements. They evidently were greatly af- fected by it, and seemed instinctively to shun it. This was the fust marked exhibition of instinct. Locomotion was at first performed very slowly but with instinctive care. The anal segment, previously to each step, was expanded like the anal leg of the larva of an insect, and being first attached like a true pro- leg, and its step, as it were, measured, its body was carried forwards by an effort that extended, as in insects, from segment to segment. At twenty-four hours after escaping from the amnion the young animals were lying toge- ther in a heap, but when disturbed seemed to have acquired more power of moving : they remained quiet except when aroused, and had not yet taken food. The only marked diffe- rence in their appearance, excepting that they had still further increased in size, was in the nipple-shaped protuberances on the sixth and seventh segments, the rudiments of future legs. These were now more distinct and mammiform. Ten hours later in the day they assumed still more the appearance of nipples projecting from the under surface of the segments. When examined in specimens that had been placed in spirits of wine, it became evident that these projections were occasioned by the develope- ment under the deciduous tegument of four new, but exceedingly minute legs, complete in all their parts, each covered by its proper skin. The claws to the legs of the other segments were also more strongly marked. The new segments (f) were more developed, although still covered by the common tegument, and, as in the preceding state, forming only one divi- sion of the body, while a small space behind them indicated the point from which other new segments were to be produced. On the nineteenth day, Mr. Newport found that the animals had acquired a little darker colour, but were still remaining quiet in their cells, and did not appear to have taken food. The enlargement of the body had not extended to the prothorax, which did not increase in size in proportion to the rest. The double pairs of new legs to the sixth and seventh segments were now distinctly visible through the exter- nal tegument, which had begun to be separated from the under surface of the old segments, to which up to this period it had closely adhered. The patch on the side of the seventh segment had become darker, and the new segments were further advanced. On the twenty-first day (fig. 323) the young Juli still remained coiled up and perfectly quiescent, with their legs disposed side by side along the under surface of the body, like the pupa? of Lepi- dopterous Insects. The new legs had consider- ably increased in size, as well as the whole animal, although it had not taken food. The ani- mal was still partially coiled up, but the skin that covered its body was greatly distended, more especially along the ventral surface. It was less able to move than before, the period of throwing off this skin being fast approacl - ing : the double legs of the sixth and seventh