013 PENIS. at their extremities. The first of these ap- pearances is due to the accidental position of the section under the microscope, so that the short trunk with its terminal twigs appears to be placed within the area of a vein projecting into it like a blossom on its stalk ; the second results from the contraction of the coats of the artery, the effects of the longitudinal contrac- tion giving rise to the curve and to the enlarge- ment near its extremity, and the transverse contraction, by producing the expulsion of some part of the injection, to the conical form of the extremity itself. " These remarkable arteries," writes Miiller,* " have a great re- semblance to the tendrils of the vine, only that the arteries are much shorter in proportion to their thickness; from this resemblance I have named them arteriae helicinae or tendril-like arteries. We may also compare their ends to the top of a crook. By close examination with the microscope they may be seen pro- jecting into the venous cells, not, however,bare, but covered with a fine membrane that under the object-glass looks horny." If the description which I have here given of erectile tissue be the true one, it is clear that the arterise helicinae have no existence, and that that appearance of the small vessels, to which Miiller has given this name, is a neces- sary consequence of the natural distribution of the ordinary vessels of the organ. I may be permitted to remind my junior reader that it was through the medium of the arteriae heli- cinae that Miiller supposed the venous canals of erectile tissue to be filled during erection, while, for the purposes of nutrition and main- taining the ordinary circulation of the organ, the arteries pour their blood into capillaries, and these into veins. Excepting during the moment of discharging their blood, this phy- siologist conceived that the small curved ter- minal twigs were impermeable, and that it was only under the influence of the erectile nervous function attending erection that the impetus of the arterial blood was sufficient to open the concealed apertures at their extremities. The lymphatic vessels of the penis are found chiefly on its dorsum, taking the course of the dorsal vein. At the root of the organ they curve outwards to the groin, and communicate with the upper group of inguinal glands. I have frequently seen a small lymphatic gland on the dorsum penis near its root. The nerves of the penis are derived from the internal pudicand from the hypogastric plexus; those from the former source are the anterior superficial perineal nerve, the nerve of the bulb, and the dorsalis penis nerve. The anterior superficial perineal is a branch of the perineal division of the internal pudic. It enters the perineum at the posterior border of the deep perineal fascia, and passing on- wards in the groove between the erector penis and accelerator urina?, gives branches to the scrotum, and is finally distributed to the inte- gument of the under part of the penis as far as the prepuce. * Archiv, 1835. The nerve of the bulb is also a branch of the perineal division of the internal pudic, and likewise enters the perineum through the posterior border of the deep perineal fascia. Between the superficial and deep fascia, and behind the transversus perinei muscle, the nerve passes obliquely forwards to the bulb, where it gives off several long and slender branches, which run forwards on the fibrous tunic of the corpus spongiosum, and then enters the bulb in company with the artery, to be distributed to the vascular parenchyma of that body and to the urethra as far as the glans penis. The perineal division of the internal pudic nerve also gives branches to the acceleratores, erectores, and ischio-bulbosi muscles. The dorsal nerve of the penis is the superior or deep division of the internal pudic. This nerve accompanies the internal pudic artery to the anterior part of the arch of the pubis, where it pierces the deep perineal fascia and passes onwards to the dorsum penis. In the latter situation it lies externally and somewhat superficially to the dorsal artery, and enters the base of the glans penis by several branches, to be distributed to the papillae of that body. Near the root of the penis the dorsal nerve gives off a large branch, which passes obliquely along the side of the corpus cavernosum, and divides into numerous long and slender branches, which are distributed to the integument of the upper and lateral aspect of the penis, to the fibrous covering and substance of the corpus cavernosum, and to the prepuce. The nervi dorsales communicate with each other, on the dorsum penis, by anastomosing filaments. The nerves derived from the hypogastric plexus are slender ramuscules, which accom- pany the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and bulb into the interior of the penis, and are dis- tributed to its internal structure. Developement.—The first indication of the developement of a penis is perceived towards the end of the fifth week after conception, at which time it exists in the form of a slight prominence, situated immediately in front of the common urino-sexual aperture. By the seventh or eighth week this prominence assumes the lengthened character of the future organ, and is grooved along its under side, the groove being an extension of the common urino-sexual cleft. The glans penis makes its appearance during the ninth week, and the urinary groove is continued beneath it. During the tenth and eleventh weeks the urinary groove becomes separated from the anus by the growth of a transverse septum, and the borders of the groove begin to lengthen and coalesce on the median line, in order to form the urethra. This process commences from behind, and proceeds for- wards towards the glans, attaining its comple- tion at about the fifteenth or sixteenth week. When it remains imperfect from arrest of deve- lopement, it constitutes that form of deficiency which is termed Hypospadias. The prepuce is developed at the same time with the closure of the urethra. (Erasmus Wilson.)