PERITONEUM. 939 rived they finally separate, partially investing, as they do so, the transverse portion of the duode- num. Thus both layers reach the abdominal parietes along the continuous line of attachment of the splenic omentum and the transverse me- socolon ; the internal layer from this continuous line invests the pancreas and other parts behind the stomach, then the lobulus Spigelii, and thus is conducted to the posterior surface of the lesser omentum, from which we started. The external layer of the omental sac, having reached this line of parietal attachment as part of the splenic omentum to the left, passes off on the left kidney and the lateral abdominal parietes and diaphragm ; having reached it below as the transverse mesocolon, it may thence be traced downwards to the root of the mesentery. The small intestine is enclosed in the extre- mity of the fold of a duplicature of peritoneum. That part of the fold which extends across from the posterior parietes to the intestine is called the mesentery. The two component layers of the mesentery are adherent by their apposed surfaces, except where vessels, &c. intervene, so that it is a parieto-visceral sheet with two free surfaces. The parietal attachment of the me- sentery is called its root, and extends obliquely across the spine from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where the duodenum emerging from the root of the transverse mesocolon be- comes jejunum, to the right iliac fossa, where the ilium enters the coecum. Though the pa- rietal attachment or root of the mesentery is but a few inches in length, its visceral attachment by means of numerous ample foldings, like a ruffle, corresponds in length with the twenty feet of small intestine. Tracing, then, the peri- toneum heretofore forming the external layer of the great omental sac from the point where it reaches the posterior parietes as part of the transverse mesocolon, downwards, we come to that side of the root of the mesentery which looks upwards and to the right; thence we trace this surface continuous along the mesen- tery, over the bowel, back again along the other side of the mesentery, so reaching that side of its root whose aspect is downwards and to the left; in both which directions the peritoneum may be traced onwards. To the left it reaches the right side of the descending colon, invests the front of that bowel, and passes off on the other side of it to the lateral parietes : occa- sionally only does it dip beneath the descending colon so as to come in contact with itself and form a mesentery for it. A little lower down, however, namely, in the left iliac fossa, it always forms a mesentery for the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and, still lower down, for the first part of the rectum. The distinction, however, between iliac mesocolon and mesoiectum, as the mesenteries of the sigmoid flexure and rec- tum are called, is quite arbitrary and unnatural; a continuous mesenteric duplicature, broad in the middle and tapering to each end, serves to give attachment to both the sigmoid flexure and the first part of the rectum. Proceeding from the root of the mesentery downwards in the middle line, the peritoneum covers the sacro- vertcbral prominence, and, just below, it ar- rives at the rectum and forms a mesentery for its first portion as above stated. The perito- neum invests the front only of the second por- tion of the rectum, and at a variable distance from the anus quits it and extends across to the back of the bladder in the male, or vagina and uterus in the female, so that the lowermost por- tion of the rectum is destitute altogether of pe- ritoneal investment. From the other side of the root of the me- sentery, namely, that which looks upwards and to the right, we may trace the continuity of peritoneal surface off to the right lumbar region, investing the ascending colon in a like, and similarly variable, manner to that in which it was described as investing the descending co- lon ; and to the right iliac fossa, where it invests the coecum, sometimes,but not most frequently, forming a narrow mesentery for it called the meso-ccecum. A bit of mesentery is usually afforded to the vermiform process, but this, of course, we do not reach by proceeding off late- rally from the last-mentioned aspect of the root of the mesentery. As mentioned above, the peritoneum extends across from the front of the rectum to the back of the bladder, in the male subject; the level at which it does so varies with the state of full- ness or emptiness of the bladder, and also is said to vary, ceteris paribus, in different indi- viduals ; frequently it is so low that the peri- toneum, passing across, touches the prostate. This is in the middle, between the front of the rectum and back of the bladder, but laterally the peritoneum is elevated into two antero- posterior folds, which extend across from the sides of the rectum to the sides of the bladder; these are called the recto-vesical folds or pos- terior ligaments of the bladder: anterior and external to them there are two other small folds. External to the recto-vesical folds the peritoneum does not descend nearly so low as it does between them ; and therefore there is a remarkable, deepish, cul-de-sac, of the same breadth as the rectum, between that intestine and the bladder. The posterior and lateral aspects and fundus of the bladder are invested with peritoneum, but not its anterior aspect: the peritoneum passes from the fundus of the bladder, by an even slant, on to the anterior abdominal pari- etes, not making any dip in front of it except when it is much distended. In the female there is a deep cul-de-sac of peritoneum be- tween the rectum and uterus, descending low enough to be in contact with the vagina : between the uterus and bladder there is a second but much shallower cul-de-sac. We have now traced the peritoneum over the ascending and descending portions of the colon to the abdominal parietes in the right and left lumbar region; from the recto-vesical folds and sides of the bladder to the iliac fossa;; and from the fundus of the bladder to the anterior abdominal parietes of the hypo- gastric region; from all or any of these posi- tions, or from any point between them, we may trace the peritoneal free surface uninter- ruptedly up to our first starting point, the