ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 182 tance being connected by a vascular cellular tissue, which is often of a dark colour, a con- trast between this and the yellow substance of the acini is produced. A similar relation of the constituent parts of the liver exists in the embryo of the bird ; in it the yellowish twig- like ramifications of the biliary canals are seen on the surface of the organ rising out of a reddish vascular tissue." M. Dujardin, in an article entitled, " Re- cherches Anatomiques et Microscopiques sur le Foie des Mammiferes,"* has advanced some opinions which he conceives will throw a doubt over the labours of Kieinan. My space will not permit an analysis of his paper, but it will be obvious to all who may be disposed to read it, that he has not advanced a single new fact, but on the contrary has confessed the most imperfect and inadequate means of ex- amination. Thus, he observes, " with an in- jection sufficiently fine we can inject the portal vein as far as the capillaries which surround the lobules." Therefore, according to him, the interlobular veins are capillaries, and we need not wonder that with such injection he gets no further, but denies the existence of vessels in the lobules altogether. The lobules, he says, are composed of glutinous corpuscules or glo- bules, which leave channels between them, through which the corpuscules of the blood pass without alteration ; at the same time by an action analogous to the phenomena of absorp- tion and assimilation in the lower animals, these lobules separate from the serum the excre- mentitious particles which are excreted upon the surface of the lobule. The blood of the portal vein is transmitted through the lobule by a kind of "filtration organique," and from it the resinous matters of the bile are elimi- nated ; the arteries, on the contrary, secrete the alkaline substances, which in the first instance, dissolve the resinous substance, and afterwards constitute the true agents of digestion. M. Dujardin concludes his theoretical but inge- nious speculations with an excuse for being obliged to give them to the world in their pre- sent imperfect state, and promises to renew his researches with perseverance. I feel pleasure in recording his promise, and have no doubt that by better directed injections in the human liver, using size and vermilion in place of oils and varnish, he will be induced to modify his views with regard to this most interesting organ. Pathological anatomy of the liveii.— If we consult the works of pathological writers upon this subject, we shall observe at every step of our progress the greatest ambiguity and dif- ference of opinion to exist. The reasons for this want of consent upon the true nature of the diseases of so important an organ are not to be ascribed either to want of talented ob- servers or of excellent observations, but solely to the ignorance which has hitherto prevailed with regard to the exact anatomy of the organ. I have shewn that the most celebrated authors found it necessary in starting with their in- * Annales Fran§aises et Etrangeres d'Ana- tom'e el Physiologie, 1838. quiries to establish for their guidance a theory of the structure of the liver; this theory was based upon imagination or upon deceptive ap- pearances ; and upon this frail basis the crumbling superstructure of their pathological deductions is supported. The hypertrophy or atrophy of the white or of the red substance, and the wild speculations of pathological theorists, have now fallen into the shade before the light which recent discoveries have thrown upon the anatomy of the liver. Intimately associated with that anatomy, and with the knowledge of the distribution of the vessels, is the explanation of the mode in which the circulation is performed, and the elucidation of the causes which may give rise to impediment in its course ; in other words, the principles of congestion. Indeed, so closely allied is that condition with the natural circulation, that Kieinan, in his paper upon the Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver, has deemed it a part of the subject to explain the various conges- tions to which the organ is liable, and the manner in which they may be imitated arti- ficially. Upon this point we have, therefore, precise information, and the history of con- gestion we may regard with a feeling of satis- faction. The same observations, with the exact anatomy of the liver as a basis, have not as yet been extended to its diseases; our know- ledge of these is therefore necessarily imper- fect. Kieman concludes his paper with a para- graph of much importance to this branch of pathology :—" While engaged in the exami- nation of the natural structure of the liver, I have not been inattentive to the changes pro- duced in it by disease; and, with the permis- sion of the Society, I propose submitting to its consideration a paper on the morbid anatomy of this organ." Now this was written in 1838, and I trust that the time is not far distant when the additional labours of that excellent observer will be placed in the hands of the pro- fession. In the arrangement of the diseases of the liver I have adopted a physiological order, and shall consider its morbid conditions under the seven following heads :— 1. Diseases of the serous membrane. 2. Diseases of the mucous membrane. 3. Disorders of the venous circulation. 4. Disorders of biliary excretion. 5. Diseases of the parenchyma. 6. Disorders of function. 7. Entozoa. 1. Diseases of the serous membrane.—The serous covering of the liver, like serous mem- branes in other parts of the body, is liable to acute inflammation. The effects of this inflam- mation are also similar; the capillary vessels become over-distended and lose their power of contraction ; coagulable lymph is effused upon the surface of the organ, and causes its me- chanical cohesion to the contiguous serous membrane; the coagulable lymph becomes organised by the development of new capillary vessels from the meshes of the old, and the adhesions are traversed by vessels of larger size, and constitute a permanent bond of