209 MARSU PI ALIA. Wombat the outwardly expanded arch is per- fectly horizontal. In the Kangaroo the lower margin of the zygoma describes a slightly undu- lating curve, the middle part of which is con- vex downwards. In many of the Marsupials, as the Kangaroo, the Koala, some of the Phalangers, Petaurists, and Opossums, the superior margin of the zygoma begins immediately to rise above the posterior origin of the arch. In the Wombat an external ridge of bone commences at the middle of the lower margin of the zygoma, and gradually extends outwards as it advances for- wards, and being joined by the upper margin of the zygoma, forms the lower boundary of the orbit, and ultimately curves downwards in front of the ant-orbital foramen, below which it bifurcates and is lost. This ridge results, as it were, from the flattening of the anterior part of the zygoma, which thus forms a smooth and slightly concave horizontal platform for the eye to rest upon. The same structure obtains, but in a slighter degree, in the Koala. In the Kangaroo the anterior and inferior part of the zygoma is extended downwards in the form of a conical process, which reaches below the level of the grinding-teeth. A much shorter and more obtuse process is observable in the corresponding situation in the Phalangers and Opossums. The relative length of the facial part of the skull anterior to the zygomatic arches varies re- markably in the different Marsupial genera. In the Wombat it is as six to nineteen; in the Koala as five to fourteen; in the Pe- taurus sciureus and Petaurus Henrietta it forms about one-fourth of the entire skull; in the Phalangers about one-third ; in the carnivorous Dasyures and Opossums more than one-third ; in the Thylacine nearly one-half; in Perameles, Macropus, and Hypsiprymnus murium, III. the length of the skull anterior to the orbit is equal to the remaining posterior part; but in a species of Hypsiprymnus from Van Dieman's Land (Hypsiprymnus myosurus, Ogilb.), the facial part of the skull anterior to the orbit exceeds that of the remainder, and the arboreal Hypsi- prymni from New Guinea present a still greater length of muzzle. In most Marsupials the skull gradually converges towards the anterior extremity ; the convergence is more sudden in the Petavrists, especially Pet. Bennettii; but in the Perameles lagotis the skull is re- markable for the sudden narrowing of the face anterior to the orbits, and the prolongation of the attenuated snout, preserving the same diameter for upwards of an inch before it finally tapers to the extremity of the nose. In the Koala the corresponding part of the skull is as remarkable for its shortness, as it is in the Per. Ingutis for its length, but it is bounded laterally by parallel lines through its whole extent. Before concluding this account of the general form of the skull, I may observe that in nearly all the Marsupials two long processes project downwards from the inferior angles of the occipital region ; they correspond in func- tion with, and have been described as the mastoids, but they are developed from the ex-occipital bones. These processes are longest in the Kangaroos and Koala; in the Wombat they co-exist with the true mastoid pro- cesses, which are of larger size. In the Opos- sums and Dasyures the exoccipital processes are short and obtuse; in Acrobates they cease to exist, but they are present in the larger Petaurists. Of the coinposition of the cranium.—The occipital bone is developed, as in the placental Mammalia,from four centres or elements,—the basilar below, the supra-occipital above, and the ex-occipitals at the sides; but these ele- ments remain longer separate, and in some genera do not become at any period of life united by continuous ossification. In the skull of an aged Virginian Opossum, I found the supra-occipital still distinct from the ex-occipitals, and these not joined together, though anchylosed to the basilar element. I say not joined together, because in this Mar- supial animal they meet above the foramen occipitale and complete its boundaries, as the corresponding superior vertebral laminae com- plete the medullary canal in the region of the spine. I find the same structure and condition of the occipital bone of an adult Dasyurus Ursinus, and it is exhibited in the plate of the cranium of this species given by M. Temminck.* In the skull of the mature Wombat, of which a reduced representation is given at fig. 94, the ex-occipitals were still unanchylosed ; the left is figured separate at a. In the skull of a Perameles nasuta the ex- occipitals are separated by an interspace, so that a fissure is continued from the upper part of the foramen magnum to the supra-occipital element. The same structure may be observed in the great Kangaroo, and it is very re- markable in the young skulls of this species ; I found this superior notch wide and well marked in Macropus Bennettii. In the Wombat the corresponding fissure is very wide, and the lower margin of the supra-occipital is notched, so that the shape of the foramen magnum somewhat resembles that of the trefoil leaf. In the Koala, the Pha'anger, Petaurists, Hyps'i- prymni, and Dasyurus Maugei, the elements of the occipital bone present the usual state of bony confluence. The temporal bone generally presents a per- manent separation of the squamous, petrous, and tympanic elements. I have observed this reptilian-like condition of the bone in the ma- ture skulls of an Ursine Dasyure, a Virginian Opossum, a Perameles, in different species of Potoroo and Kangaroo, in the Wombat, and in the Koala. The petrous and mastoid elements are commonly anchylosed together. So loose indeed is the connexion of the tympanic bone, that without due care it is very liable to be lost in preparing the skulls of the Marsupials. In the Kangaroo and Wombat (jig. 94, b) it * JVIonographies de Mammalogie, pi. viii.