PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ?23d 2 z ******* directed very strongly, and for some time, to any part, it may become the seat of pain, for which the most effective remedy is to engage the thoughts as much as possible on some other object. In many instances, where pain has been excited by a physical cause, there can be no doubt it has been continued long after the cessation of its exciting cause, by the attention of the patient having been directed to it. It is probable, that in such cases the perceiving parts of the brain (so to speak) become habituated to a certain condition of the centre of sensation, produced by the original exciting cause of the pain. And, on the other hand, pain, at first excited by the mind, may be rendered perma- nent by habit; a certain physical alteration in some part of the centre of sensation being in- duced by the frequent repetition of the mental act in reference to a particular part of the body. Those parts of the brain which are capable only of mental nervous actions, that is, of ac- tions by which the mind is immediately affect- ed, or which the mind can develope, have no nerves implanted in them. Such are the con- volutions, the corpora striata, the optic thala- mi, and the cerebellum. The only apparent exceptions to this statement are the olfactory and optic nerves : these nerves, however, have in truth no immediate connection with any of the parts above mentioned. The former are implanted in the olfactory lobe; the latter in the chiasma, which is formed by the junction of the optic tracts, and these ought no more to be regarded as portions of the optic nerves, than the olfactory lobes should be considered as nerves. Functions of the commissures.-—The anatomy of the parts which we call commissures indi- cates that the name by which they have long- been known is not misapplied, inasmuch as they seem to unite particular portions of the nervous centres with each other. The most obvious object of such an union would be to ensure the harmonious cooperation of the parts thus united. And this view of their function is strengthened by the fact that the principal commissures bear a direct ratio in point of developement to that of the parts they unite, and that, when these parts are absent or defec- tive, the commissures are deficient or wholly wanting. Thus the corpus callosum and the hemispheres are developed together; the fornix and the hippocampi, the pons Varolii and the cerebellar hemispheres. In Selling's experiments on the spinal cord it was found that when division of that organ was made along the median plane, a stimulus applied to one leg caused only reflex actions of that leg, and not at all of the other side of the body. The power of transmitting organic change from one side of the cord to the other was destroyed by the section of the commissure. The anatomy of the corpus callosum is fa- vourable to the hypothesis that it is the bond of union to the convoluted surface of the hemi- spheres, and that it is in all probability the medium by which the double organic change is made to correspond with the working of a VOL. III. single mind.* There is nothing in the recorded observations of morbid change or congenital defect of this part to militate against this idea; but as all these cases are accompanied with lesion or defect of some other parts, and of the convolutions themselves, it is impossible to gather from them what is the precise conse- quence of the defect of the corpus callosum. Tin's commissure is defective in the marsupiate class, as was shown by Professor Owen, and likewise in birds; but we have yet to learn whether there is any psychological character in either of these groups of animals, which would give us material assistance in our search into the nature of its function.f Direct experiments upon the corpus callo- sum yield only negative results. Longet and others found that mechanical irritation of it did not cause convulsions ; and Longet states that injury to the corpus callosum in young rabbits and dogs did not appear to disturb voluntary movements; and that when he incised this body in its whole length in rabbits standing, they continued to maintain that position, or, when urged on, ran; and that no convulsive movement whatever, nor any sign of pain, was manifested. Such effects are not unfa- vourable to the view above taken, as the con- nection of the centres of intellectual action is probably in no degree necessary to locomotion, which function would no doubt be as well per- formed without a corpus callosum as with one. The fibres of the fornix manifest the same insensibility to mechanical irritants, and their obvious anatomical connection with particular convolutions warrants but one conclusion, that they associate the actions of those parts. The connection of this commissure with the optic thalami and the corpora mamillaria indicates that it also associates these gangliform bodies with the convolutions at the posterior part of the brain, and with the hippocampi. A marked relation exists between these latter convolutions and the fornix; they bear, indeed, especially * Mr. Solly and Mr. Grainger think that they can trace the fibres of the corpus callosum distinctly to the convoluted surface of the hemispheres. With the greatest respect for these able anatomists, I must express my doubts that all the fibres which they have represented can be regarded as fibres of the corpus callosum. See fig. 99 in Mr. Solly's work on the Brain, p. 251, ed. 1847. Although the anatomical views of these writers correspond with and confirm the physiology of the organ advo- cated in the text, I feel that great caution should be used in drawing conclusions from tracing the fibres of brains hardened in alcohol. Py these means any speculative anatomist may make prepa- rations to illustrate his views, as is, indeed, abun- dantly shown by what I must call the fanciful ana- tomy of the brain put forward by Foville. t An excellent account is given by Mr. Paget of a case in which the corpus callosum and fornix were imperfect, in the xxixth vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans., accompanied by some very judicious remarks upon the office of those commissures, and an analysis of other similar cases. Mr. Paget refers to some oblique fibres as existing in the corpus cal- losum, and serving to connect the anterior convo- lutions of one hemisphere with the posterior ones of the other,