79 LACRYMAL ORGANS. lage of the upper eyelid and the lower edge of that of the lower, respectively, and the cor- responding edges of the orbit, there intervenes a cellulo-membianeous expansion. This (and in the upper eyelid, the expansion of the le- vator palpebral superioris,) together with the conjunctiva on its inside and the skin on its outside, serves as it were the office of a loose hinge for the firm part of the eyelid. But the pivots on which the motions of the eyelids, especially of the upper, more immediately take place, are the angles of the eye. The upper eyelid, indeed, moves somewhat in the manner of the visor of a helmet, its firm part, when the eye is open, being drawn up and retracted within the margin of the orbit whilst its loose part is thrown into folds. External conformation of the eyelids.—The extent and form of the eyelids are best seen when they are closed in sleep. The convexity of their external surface then bespeaks a cor- responding concavity of the internal adapted to the prominent front of the eyeball. The opening between the two eyelids is called the palpebral fissure, rima palpebrarum. In the closed state of the eye, this fissure represents a mere curved line with the convexity down- wards ; but on account of the way in which the eyelids are moved, it is, in the open state, a wide elliptical aperture. It is chiefly by the motions of the upper eyelid that the open or closed state of the eye is commonly produced. The upper eyelid is larger than the lower, and in the closed state of the eye from relaxation simply, as during sleep or in death, it covers much more of the front of the eyeball than the lower. But in forced closure of the eye by the action of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, the lower eyelid is drawn up, being impressed at the same time with a horizontal movement to- wards the inner angle, and meets the upper half-way, so that the latter cannot descend so far as it does during sleep. Hence, in active closure of the eye the skin of the upper eyelid is thrown into folds, whereas, in passive clo- sure, it is smoothly extended in a convex form over the eyeball. The lower eyelid is capable of pretty extensive motion. It can of itself aloue cover almost entirely the whole front of the eyeball, either when the upper eyelid is held immoveably retracted under the edge of the orbit, or in that morbid shortening or re- traction of the upper eyelid known by the name of lagophthalmos. But as the covering of the eye by the lower eyelid is always the effect of a muscular exertion, the eye in lagoph- thalmos will not be covered during sleep, hence the lower can never serve as a substitute for the upper eyelid. Sir Charles Bell* says, " Anatomists have sought for a depressor of the inferior eyelid, seeing that it is depressed, but such a muscle lias no existence and is quite unnecessary. The levator palpebra: superioris opens wide the eyelids, depressing the lower eyelid at the same * The Nervous System of the Human Body, p. 186. ' time it elevates the upper one. If we put the finger upon the lower eyelid so as to feel the eyeball when the eye is shut and then open the eye, we shall feel that during this action the eyeball is pushed outwards. Now the lower eyelid is so adapted as to slip off the convex surface of the ball in this action and to be depressed, whilst the upper eyelid is elevated." I believe the following to be what is usually observable in regard to the motions of the lower eyelid: the lower eyelid is drawn up over the eye by a muscular exertion; when that exertion is discontinued it falls back into its former state simply by its own elasticity and that of the integuments of the cheek. It is only in the forced state of looking down- wards that the prominence of the cornea forces down the lower eyelid, in the manner described by Sir Charles Bell. It is to be remembered, however, that in the act of looking downwards, whilst the prominence of the cornea forces down the lower eyelid, the upper, contrary to what might be inferred from Sir C. Bell's state- ment as quoted above, is depressed, instead of being elevated. In winking the upper eyelid falls and the lower rises considerably. The free margins of the eyelids are broad surfaces. That of the upper eyelid is about one-twelfth of an inch broad; that of the lower about one-fifteenth. The edge bound- ing the margin anteriorly corresponds to the insertion of the eyelashes and is round. The posterior edge is much sharper and more de- fined than the preceding, and is the place where the delicate integument of the margin of the eyelid is continued into the palpebral con- junctiva. On the margin of either eyelid between the two edges or boundaries just described, but nearer the posterior than the anterior, and parallel to them, there is observable, on close inspection, a row of minute pores—the excre- tory mouths of the Meibomian follicles. The margins of the eyelids have been said to present a slope towards the eyeball, so that their outer edges only meet, when the eye is closed; and hence is produced a sort of chan- nel between them and the eyeball of a triangu- lar prismatic shape, which serves to lead the tears to the inner corner of the eye. Such a conformation, if it exists in the upper eyelid, is very slight and is amply compensated for by the slope in the opposite direction of the margin of the lower eyelid. The fact thus ap- pears to be that when the eyelids are closed, their margins, as has been remarked by Ma- gendie, meet each other surface to surface as nearly as may be. The inner and outer corners of the eye where the eyelids join are called cant hi. The outer canthus, generally speaking, forms an acute angle; but on close examination, it is observed that the apex is rounded off, some- what prolonged and turned slightly down- wards. The conformation of the inner canthus is altogether peculiar and rather complicated. At the inner canthus the palpebral fissure is prolonged into a sort of secondary fissure;