PAR VAGUM. 893 and he has adduced in support of this view the statement of Cruveilhier that after the function of volition has been suspended by destroying the cerebrum, the respiratory movements are instantly arrested on dividing the vagi near their origin.* In putting this opinion to the test of experiment we found that though the respirations were very much diminished in frequency by the removal of the cerebrum and cerebellum and then dividing the vagi, they nevertheless continued for a longer or shorter time.t Similar results have also been subsequently obtained by Volkmann,J by Flourens,§ and by Longet.|| From these facts ■we are entitled to conclude that the vagi are not the sole excitors of respiration, and that impressions may be made upon the medulla oblongata capable of exciting the involuntary respiratory movements after the vagi have been divided in the neck, and when impressions made on their expanded extremities in the lungs can no longer be conveyed inwards to the central organs of the nervous system. The importance of the vagi as incident nerves of respiration is not only proved by the marked and immediate diminution in the number of the respirations which follows their division,^ but also in a more striking manner by the morbid changes which take place in the lungs. Morbid changes in the lungs after dividing the vagi.—The injury or division of the vagi is almost always fatal after a few days, even when precautions are taken to secure the free ingress of air into the lungs. The period of death in such experiments varies in different animals. Rabbits generally die earlier than dogs. The greater number of dogs die before the third day, and comparatively few live beyond the fifth day. In seventeen experiments upon dogs we found that eleven died before the completion of the third day, and seven of these eleven before the completion of the second day. Longet says that he performed this experiment on thirty dogs, and they all died on or before the fifth day, and none of the rabbits operated on, lived beyond thirty-six hours.** Dupuy in his experiments found that horses lived to the fifth, sixth, and seventh day, when care was taken to admit a sufficient quantity of air into the lungs.De Blainville informs us that the pigeons on which he operated died on the sixth or seventh day ;JJ and in the experiments of Arnold§§ upon hens and pigeons, these animals died between the second and fifth day. In tures on the Nervous System, p. 25. Memoirs on the Nervous System, p. 87,1837. * Lancet, 17th Feb., 1838, p. 733. t Opus cit. for 1839. t Opus cit. for 1840. $ Opuscit. Seconde edition, p. 204, Paris, 1842. || Opus cit. torn, ii., p. 307, 1842. % A diminution of the number of respirations, but to a less extent generally, results from dividing one of the vagi. ** Opus cit. torn, ii., p. 306. tt Journal de Medecine, Chirurg., &o, tome xxxvii.,p. 356, Dec. 1816. Jt Nouv. Bullet, de la Societ. Philom. tome i., ann. ii., p. 226. j§ Opus cit. s. 163. general the lungs are the only organs found in an abnormal state after death from injury or division of the vagi. We found the lungs unfit for the healthy performance of their func- tions in fifteen out of seventeen dogs experi- mented upon. These organs are almost always more or less congested with blood, especially at the depending parts, and the bronchial tubes and air cells frequently contain much frothy serum. In some portions of the lungs the congestion of blood is occasionally so great as to render them dense and devoid of air. This condensation is not unfrequently greater in some parts than what can be accounted for by the mere congestion of blood in the vessels, and probably depends in a great measure upon the escape of the solid parts of the blood into the tissue of the lung. The frothy serum has fre- quently a greater or less deep tinge of red. Portions of the lung are likewise occasionally found condensed from pneumonic effusion. In seventeen experiments on dogs distinct evi- dences of pneumonia were observed in five, and in two of these it had run on to gangrene. These morbid changes upon the lungs are suffi- cient to explain the imperfect arterialization of the blood, and the diminished evolution of internal caloric which precedes death. We have endeavoured to prove that these morbid changes in the lungs are the result of the dimi- nished frequency of the respiratory movements which immediately follows the division of the vagi. The vagi are the chief excitors of the respiratory muscular movements, and when they are tied or divided the respirations are instantly diminished to less than half their former number. The flow of blood through the lungs is dependent upon the continuance of the respiratory process, and the great dimi- nution in the activity of the respiratory muscular movements must be followed by a retardation and congestion of the blood in the lungs. Such a congestion of blood, as is well known, is generally followed by an effusion of serum, and also predisposes theorganssocircumstanced to various morbid changes, chiefly of an inflam- matory nature. In the lungs this congestion is not only followed by the escape of the serum, but also of the more solid material from the vessels, rendering the tissue dense. The ef- fused serum is mixed up with air moving along the bronchial tubes during inspiration and ex- piration, and it thus becomes frothy. A little blood may also exude from the congested mu- cous membrane of the bronchial tubes, giving the serum there effused a reddish tinge. As these changes proceed, the respiratory process becomes more and more imperfect, the blood flowing along the arteries approaches more and more to the venous hue, all the vital properties of the tissue are enfeebled, the internal tempe- rature sinks, and the animal dies of protracted asphyxia. The division and other injuries of the pneumo-gastrics have no direct effect upon the production of the animal heat; they only occasion this indirectly by enfeebling the func- tion of respiration. We have elsewhere* ad- * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1839.