NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 164 an exabdominal tumour, and be uncovered ex- cepting by the membranes of the ovum. But the most interesting and unexplained form of altered position is that in which the whole of the viscera of the body are transposed, and the liver becomes placed on the left instead of the right side. These cases are generally perfect, and the peculiarity does not seem to interfere with the life or functions of the subject. The liver presents its natural form and size, and with the simple exception of left for right, pre- cisely the same relations. The aorta, of course, occupies the right side, and the venae cava the left, while the stomach is transferred to the right. Sir Astley Cooper has preserved the viscera of an adult who was the subject of this transposition. And a few years since I had the opportunity of examining a similar case in the body of Smithers, a man who was executed for committing arson accom- panied with loss of life in Oxford-street. The viscera of this man were perfectly healthy, the liver finely formed, and the general fabric ro- bust. The gall-bladder (fig. 33, 12,) (cystis fellea; is a membranous sac of a pyriform shape, situated in the shallow fossa upon the under surface of the right lobe, and lying pa- rallel with the longitudinal fissure. For con- venience of description it has been customary to divide it into a body, fundus, and neck (cervix), although no precise mark of division subsists between these parts. The body is the middle portion ; the fundus the expanded ex- tremity, which approaches the notch in the free border of the liver, and frequently extends be- yond it; and the neck the narrow and taper- ing portion of the sac which enters the right extremity of the transverse fissure and forms the cystic duct. The sac is in relation by its upper surface with the substance of the liver, and by the under part with the pylorus and ascending duodenum. The fundus corresponds with the right border of the rectus muscle, and may be felt in that situation when filled with gall- stones. The coats of the gall-bladder are three :—1. an external or serous covering derived from the peritoneum, which covers all that portion of the sac which is not in contact with the sub- stance of the liver. The gall-bladder is some- times completely surrounded by the peritoneum, and hangs loosely connected with the liver by a duplicature of that membrane. 2. A fibrous layer* (nervous) composed of cellulo-fibrous tissue intermingled with tendinous fibres; and, 3. a mucous coat which lines the interior of the sac, and is continuous through the cystic and hepatic ducts with the mucous lining of the biliary structure of the liver, and through the ductus communis choledochus with the mu- cous membrane of the duodenum and ali- mentary canal. The internal surface of the mucous layer is raised into innumerable small ridges and folds (rugaa) by the ramifications of the cystic artery and its capillaries, which give * In the ox, according to Monro, this coat is distinctly muscular. to it a peculiarly reticulated appearance, and the interspaces of the rugee are depressed into numerous small muciparous follicles. In the neck of the sac the mucous membrane is pro- duced into from six to twelve small folds, forming a kind of spiral valve by means of which the bile is regulated in its descent into the duodenum, and assisted in its entrance into the gall-bladder. The existence of this pecu- liar valvular apparatus gives to the neck of the gall-bladder a sacculated appearance. The mu- cous membrane is but loosely connected with the fibrous coat, and the cystic artery with its branches ramify between them. The excretory duct of the gall-bladder is the cystic, (Jig. 33, 11) ; it is about an inch and a half in length, and in diameter about equal to the cylinder of a crow's quill. It is generally somewhat tortuous in its course, and appears sacculated from the continuation into it of the spiral valve. Upon entering the transverse fissure it unites with the excretory duct of the liver, the hepatic duct, and the junction of the two constitutes the ductus communis choledochus. The ductus communis choledochus, about three inches in length, des- cends through the right border of the lesser omentum, lying in front of the portal vein, and to the right of the hepatic artery, and opens into the duodenum by passing for some dis- tance obliquely between its coats. It is united to the other vessels in its course by the cellular tissue of Glisson's capsule, and near to its ter- mination is considerably constricted. The excretory ducts of the liver and gall- bladder have three coats, an external or cellular coat, a middle or fibrous, and an internal mu- cous. A question exists among physiologists as to the probable muscularity of the middle coat in man; it is undoubtedly contractile, and in some few instances of obstruction has pre- sented an appearance very closely resembling muscular fibres. Cruveilhier thinks the struc- ture analogous to the dartos. In some animals, as in the horse and dog, this coat is clearly muscular. Varieties in the gall-bladder.—The sac is sometimes enormously dilated without any ap- parent obstruction in its ducts. Occasionally in acephalous and anencephalous foetuses it is altogether absent. In a preparation now before me of the liver of a fcetus at the full period, which lived for several hours after birth, and which presented, in anatomical structure, several peculiarities dependent upon arrest of de- velopment, the most careful dissection has failed to discover the slightest indication of gall-bladder. Among the lower mammalia, as in cats, a double or accessory gall-bladder is by no means uncommon. Kiernan has ob- served several instances of this variety. I my- self have seen two, and have one at present before me. In the kinkaju an accessory gall- bladder is the normal character, and in the liver of a small animal preserved by Hunter in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, there are three gall-bladders. Structure of the liver.—The liver is com- posed of lobules, of a connecting medium