612 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) Fis 348 approximated, though by a lens the fissure or mark of separation may in some be perceived. The abdominal ganglia are of a lengthened ovoid form ; and when viewed through a lens, have a dense opaque white appearance; two in particular appear encased as it were in a neurilemma, and have a distinctly bilobate ap- pearance ; in others there appears quite a nucleus of opaque nervous matter (8 & 9); from each of them are given off three lateral pairs of nerves, some of which pass to supply the viscera, while others pass round the body of the larva to near the dorsal vessel, thus forming a nervous ring, open superiorly, which being repeated in each segment, and the whole con- nected by commissures, forms a continuous series at once recognised as a column of pri- mary nervous rings, the type of the nervous system of the articulata; the eleventh and twelfth ganglia are closely joined to each other, and from the latter are given off two radiating pairs of nerves, passing to the caudal extremity of the larva. There is also a minute nerve (Jig- 348,J'), which I have traced in this larva passing off at the angle of separation between the divided longitudinal cords connecting the second and third, and the third and fourth abdominal ganglia, and which, midway be- tween these ganglia, divided into a right and left transverse filament (g,g), each of which had connexion with the lateral nerves arising from the ganglia themselves. Some have con- sidered these nerves as sympathetic, others as motor, but from their principal branches going to supply the tracheae, I consider, with Mr. Newport, that they must be respiratory nerves. I have examined the nervous cord in the larva of Pontia brassica, Cossus ligniperda, two species of Arctia, and have found the dis- position of the ganglia, &c. to be the same; as the insect, however, advances towards ma- turity, considerable and important changes take place in the nervous system. Heroldt has described and figured them in the Pontia bras- sica,* and Mr. Newport has investigated them with the minutest accuracy in the Sphinx li- gustri.f It appears that during the pupa state a contraction of the nervous columns takes place, the ganglia (more particularly the se- cond, third, fourth, and fifth) become approxi- mated ; the distance between the cerebral gan- glion and the first sub-oesophageal ganglion becomes much less, and the oesophageal ring becomes much smaller; this is preparatory to the subsequent concentration and junction which we find in the perfect insect. When this latter phenomenon takes place, the ganglia just mentioned become consolidated together, and the oral nervous ring is scarcely percep- tible : this is the case in the perfect state of Mormo maura (fig. 349), where also the ab- dominal ganglia are small (c c), and (owing to the disappearance of two of the thoracic ganglia) are situated at some distance from these latter, which are of large size (6 b), and the nervous * Entwickelungsgeschichte des Schmetterlings. f Phil. Trans, for 1832 and 1834.