720y PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the left side.* A longitudinal section of the cord along the median line in frogs does not cause paralysis; it gives rise, however, to a temporary disturbance of the functions of the cord which soon subsides.-}- Continuity of the spinal cord and encepha- lon is then the condition necessary to establish the control of the former organ over the volun- tary movements and sensations of the trunk. The disunion of the cord or any portion of it from the encephalon dissociates the cord or the separated segment of it from all participa- tion in mental nervous actions. So long as the cord is united with the brain, it takes a certain share in mental nervous actions, in acts of sen- sation and volition; this, however, it loses when disease or accident separates the one from the other. It is plain, then, that the spina! cord,although apart from the encephalon it takes no share in sensations and voluntary actions, (for then, indeed, these phenomena cannot take place as far as regards the trunk and extremities,) while united with the encephalon participates fully in sensori-volitional actions, and its integrity is quite necessary to the perfection of those actions. 1 repeat that we are not justified in supposing that the mind localises itself exclusively in some or all of the gangliform bodies, the assemblage of which constitutes the encephalon; but this we may assert, with perfect justice, that when the cord has been separated from the encephalon, the mind appears as it were to cling to the latter organ, and to lose all its connection with the former. Does then the cord, under these circum- stances, lose all its power ? Does it, when sepa- rate from the encephalon, shew no indication of acting as a nervous centre ? Undoubtedly it does show abundant indications. A series of actions, which had attracted the notice of several physiologists, are still capable of being developed through the instrumentality of the whole cord or of any portion of it, the nerves of which may remain uninjured both as to their central and peripheral connections. Phenomena of this nature may be produced in all vertebrate animals. They are, however, especially marked in the cold-blooded classes, in consequence of the more enduring character of the nervous force in those creatuees than in the warm-blooded. Hence frogs, salamanders, snakes, turtles, fishes, have been generally selected by physiologists for exhibiting these phenomena. In the young of warm-blooded animals they are more manifest than in adults of the same class. If a frog be pithed by dividing the line of junction of the medulla oblongata with the spinal cord, the following effects may be ob- served. After the first disturbance, general convulsions, &c, consequent upon the division of the cord, the animal, if placed on a table, will assume his ordinary position of rest. In some cases, however, frequent combined move- ments, much resembling acts of volition, will * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 200. t See Flourens' Experiments, Syst. Nerveux. take place for a longer or shorter time after the operation. When all such disturbance has ceased the animal remains perfectly still and as if in repose, nor does it exhibit the slightest appearance or give the least expres- sion of pain or suffering. It is quite unable to produce any spontaneous or voluntary move- ment of parts supplied with nerves from be- low the section, that is, of the trunk or extre- mities. However one may try to frighten it, it remains in the same place and posture. The only appearance of voluntary motion is the winking of the eyelids, which, however, proba- bly is not excited by the will. If, now, a toe be pinched, instantly the limb is drawn up, or the animal seems to push away the irritating agent, and then draws up the leg again into its old position. Sometimes a stimulus of this kind excites both legs, and causes them to be thrown violently backwards. A similar movement al- most constantly follows stimulation of the anus. If the skin be pinched at any part, some neighbouring muscle or muscles will be thrown into action. Irritation of the anterior extre- mities will occasion movements of them; but it is worthy of note that these movements are seldom so energetic as those of the posterior extremities. We may remark here, that phenomena of this kind are not confined to the trunk and extremities, which are supplied only by spinal nerves. The head and face, with which the encephalon remains in connection, exhibit similar actions. The slightest touch to the margin of either eyelid or to the surface of the conjunctiva causes instantaneous winking; the attempt to depress the lower jaw for the purpose of opening the mouth is resisted ; and the act of deglutition is provoked by applying a mechanical stimulus to the back of the throat.* Actions similar to those which take place in the decapitated frog, occur in the human subject when the spinal cord has been separated from its encephalic connections by disease or acci- dent. In such cases it is found that although the will cannot move the paralysed parts, the lower extremities for instance, movements do occur * Sir Gilbert Blane, in his admirable Croonian Lecture on muscular motion, having drawn the dis- tinction between instinctive and voluntary actions, makes the following remarks. " There are facts which show that instinctive actions, even in ani- mals endowed withbiain and nerves, do not de- pend on sensation. I took a live kitten, a few days old, and divided the spinal marrow by cutting it across at the neck. The hind paws being then irri- tated by pricking them, and by touching them with a hot wire, the muscles belonging to the posterior extremities were thrown into contraction, so as to produce the motion of shrinking from the injury. The same effects were observed in another kitten after the head was entirely separated from the body." And again, " In an acephalous monster, the like phenomena were observable. It moved up its knees, when the soles of its feet were tickled ; it performed the act of suction ; passed urine and faeces; and swallowed food." * * * "The like takes place with regard to insects; for, after the head of a bee is separated from the body, the hinder part will sting, upon the application of such a stimulus as would excite the same action in the animal in a perfect state."