963 PISCES. 'Skeleton of Lampris guttata, showing the interspinous bones, easily recognisable from their dark tint. are met with in acanthopterygious Fishes, and branched or so/if rays, such as are found in the Malacopterygii. They are all divided by a longitudinal raphe, or suture, into two lateral halves, so that each appears to be formed of two rays conjoined,—a circumstance which forms an additional argument against these parts of the skeleton being dismemberments of the vertebra?. The rays of the caudal fin are always soft and articulated ; but in many Fishes some of those at its root, both above and below, are gradually diminished in size until nothing is left of them but the hard part forming the base. Skeletons of Chondropterygii.—In the true cartilaginous Fishes, such as the Sharks and Rays, the bones are always destitute of those osseous fibres which give hardness to the skele- ton in the preceding races possessing a true bony skeleton. Their interior remains perma- nently soft and cartilaginous, while their ex- ternal surface is strengthened by becoming en- crusted with a layer of granular-looking calca- reous matter. As there is in the Chondropterygii no depo- sition of bony particles radiating from ossific centres, there can be no division of the cranium into distinct bones, nor of course any sutures: the whole cranium consists of a single cartilagi- nous piece, in which, however, it is easy to dis- tinguish the same regions, the same fossae, the same eminences, and the same holes as in the skull of one of the osseous Fishes; but, although it is not difficult with a little attention to point out the situation of the different bones, to define their limits is impossible. The bones of the face are likewise consoli- dated with the great cranial mass, and conse- quently are quite undistinguishable except from their position in relation to organs into the composition of which they enter. The structure of the skull therefore appears exceedingly simple when compared with that of an osseous fish. The whole pterygo-temporal apparatus is represented by two pieces, one of which corresponding with the temporal, tym- panic, symplectic, and jugal bones of Cuvier, or the tympanic pedicle, as Professor Owen calls the long stem, which in the osseous Fishes is composed of those elements, is here represented by a single piece (fig. 496, c) in- terposed between the side of the cranium and the point of junction between the upper and lower jaws—an arrangement precisely similar to that which is observable in the Batrachian Reptiles. The other piece belonging to the pterygo- temporal apparatus (fig. 496, e) forms, in con- junction with its fellow of the opposite side, almost the whole of the upper jaw, covering Fig. 496. Anterior portion of the skeleton of a female Shark (Acanthias niger). a, a, cartilaginous skull; b, nasal cavity ; d, lower jaw ; e, upper jaw ; /, g, connecting pedicle ; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, branchial apparatus ; 6, h, zone supporting (k, I,) pectoral fins. 3 y 2