98 LACRYMAL ORGANS. as several scinci, which may be drawn over the eye without interrupting vision, the cornea cor- responding to it." This is the structure in the frog; for what Cuvier admitted as a third eye- lid is horizontal instead of vertical, and, as Carus has shown, nothing more than the lower eyelid. In the frog the upper eyelid follows the motions of the eyeball. The lower eyelid has independent motion; admitting of being drawn over the eye and falling into a fold when this is open. The anterior and posterior semilunar folds in certain fishes have been already alluded to. The glandule of Harder.—The glandule of Harder belongs peculiarly to the membrana nictitans or third eyelid ; it therefore does not exist in man and the quadrumana. The lacry- mal caruncle is not the representative of it, as is asserted in Dr. Grant's Treatise on Compara- tive Anatomy, for both may exist together. I do not even know if it is correct to say that the two structures are developed in an inverse ratio, for in the sheep, in which the glandule of Harder is of considerable size, the caruncula is absolutely as great, if not greater, than that of man. Even among the hare kind, which have the membrana nictitans and glandule of Harder much developed, I find, particularly in the rabbit, a trace of lacrymal caruncle as scattered follicular grains along with small hairs at the inner canthus. It is only in birds that we lose all trace of the lacrymal caruncle. The glandule of Harder is situated in the orbit between its inner wall and the globe of the eye. In the sheep, for instance, the glan- dular substance is collected around the cartila- ginous pedicle of the membrana nictitans, on the inner surface of which it opens by two or three small ducts. In the elephant, in which the lacrymal gland is said to be wanting, or very small, the glandule of Harder is said to be very large. It opens between the membrana nictitans and the eyeball by an opening the size of a quill. In the hare kind, as has been said, the glandule of Harder is immense. It presents two lobes, and its duct opens in a wide lacuna within the membrana nictitans. According to Muller,* the elementary particles or ends of the ducts are minute vesicles every- where equal and joining in the manner of branches into irregular oblong lobes. The excretory duct at the external surface of the gland opposite the eye is divided in the bi- lobated glandular mass into a great number of smaller ducts, which divaricating are joined each to a branch of the lobules. In birds the glandule of Haider is commonly much more considerable than the lacrymal gland. It lies as usual at the nasal canthus and opens within the third eyelid towards the eyeball. There is never any caruncle. Muller tells us the glandule of Harder in birds is easily injected with mercury after its secretion has been all pressed out. The surface of the organ is divided into many smaller lobes. The internal ramification of the ducts does not ap- pear to be complicated. * De glandularum secernentium penitiori struc- tura, p. 51, tab. v. fig. 6 and 7. In reptiles the glandule of Harder is smaller than the lacrymal gland. The secretion of the glandule of Harder is a thick transparent viscid matter. 111. Secreting and derivative lacrymal apparatus.—The development of the lacrymal gland and of that of Harder is generally in an inverse ratio. It would appear that the deriva- tive lacrymal apparatus is more in relation with the lacrymal gland than with the glandule of Harder, as it is much developed in man, in whom there is no glandule of Harder, and, as is reported, it is wanting in the elephant, in which the glandule of Harder is said to be very large. The lacrymal gland exists in man, apes, sapajous, and snakes, but no glandule of Harder. In all other mammifera there is both a lacrymal gland and a glandule of Harder. In proportion as the latter enlarges the former be- comes smaller. Among the cetacea, the dol- phin possesses a lacrymal gland which sur- rounds the eyeball like a ring. Its excretory ducts, which are numerous, open on the inner surface of both upper and lower eyelids. The derivative lacrymal apparatus is wanting; in this respect, seals and walrusses agree with the cetacea.* Other mammals, as moles and shrew- mice, are said to present no trace of lacrymal apparatus. In the elephant, small glandular grains the size of a pea are said to represent the lacrymal gland. Camper says the hippopo- tamus has no puncta, from which may be in- ferred the absence of any lacrymal passage into the nose. The elephant is also said to want the derivative lacrymal apparatus. In birds the lacrymal gland is small, and lies at the posterior angle of the eye, either towards the roof or the floor of the orbit. The derivative lacrymal organs in the common fowl, for in- stance, consist of two large lacrymal points, the upper the larger, and a membraneous canal leading into the nose. In reptiles, the lacrymal gland lies behind the eyeball, and is of considerable size, especially in harmless serpents. According to Duverney, the lacrymal gland in one species of typhlops is six times larger than the extremely diminu- tive eyeball; but even in poisonous serpents, the viper for instance, it is large. The sauria and chelonia have for the most part both a lacrymal gland and a glandule of Harder, the former the larger. Batrachia want the lacrymal apparatus. In serpents the secretion of the lacrymal gland is poured into the oculo-palpebral space, from which a lacrymal duct leads. In the colubri there is, in the fore and lower part of the oculo-palpebral space, a hole or round pore, in some individuals seen with difficulty, very distinct on the contrary in others, and which may admit a bristle. This is the lacry- mal point; it is single and is continuous with a very slender membranous duct, semi- transparent, which forms the lacrymal canal. This, in harmless serpents, opens into a large pouch communicating with the mouth in front * Rapp. 1. c. Rapp describes, in the Cetacea, scattered grains of lacrymal gland, which open on the conjunctiva near the eyeball.