376 MONOTREMATA. transverse processes, and the first eleven have also spinous and articular processes. The transverse processes are broad and depressed; they gradually increase in length to the tenth caudal, then as gradually diminish to the twen- tieth; their extremities are expanded, and, from the fifth backwards, are thickened and tuberculate. The spinous processes progres- sively diminish in height from the first caudal. The first six caudal vertebrae have both posterior and anterior oblique processes, and are joined together both by these and by the articular surfaces of the body : the anterior articular processes are present, but progres- sively diminish in size from the seventh to the sixteenth vertebra, and are not subservient to their reciprocal articulation. Inferior spinous processes are developed from the bodies of the third to the nineteenth caudal vertebra inclusive; but there are no hsemapophyses articulated to the vertebral interspaces, as in many Marsupials and the Edentata. In the Echidna the inferior spinous processes are absent; but rudiments of hsemapophyses are connected with the interspaces of one or two of the middle vertebras of the tail. The cau- dal vertebrae in the Ornithorhynchus are of nearly the same length to the two last; they progressively diminish in vertical diameter as they recede from the trunk, and are chiefly remarkable for their breadth and flatness; resembling in this respect, as Cuvier has ob- served, the caudal vertebrae of the Beaver, and we might add those of the Cetacea; the hori- zontally extended tail having a similar relation to the frequent need which an aquatic animal with hot blood and a quick respiration of air has to ascend rapidly to the surface of the water. Of the pectoral extremities.—Cuvier* justly observes that the most remarkable part of the osteology of the Monotremes is the organiza- tion of the shoulder; which corresponds with that of birds, and still more with that of lizards. Had these anomalous Mammals been ex- tinct, and their fossilized skeleton alone, as in the Ichthyosauri, been preserved for the con- templation of the naturalist, the perplexity which the combination of this structure with the mammalian conditions of the skull and vertebrae would have occasioned maybe readily conceived. The scapula (/) is represented detached, with the coracoid (o), at g, jig. 173; I* is the cartilage appended to the short convex base. The scapula is long, narrower than in most Mammalia, and has its posterior vertebral angle so much produced, as to give it a re- semblance to the scapula of the bird and saurian : this resemblance is farther increased by the origin of the spine close to the anterior Costa, and by the spine being bent forwards so as to seem to form a continuation of the external surface of the scapula, which is thus rendered concave in the Orniihorhynchus. * Ossem. Foss. v. pt. 1, p. 146. The spine, however, terminates in a freely pro- jecting acromion. The true anterior costa is, in this Monotreme, represented by a ridge which traverses ob- liquely the inner and convex side of the sca- pula, from the anterior vertebral angle to the neck of the bone. In the Echidna this ridge is nearly obsolete, and the spine of the sca- pula is bent so as to form a more direct con- tinuation of body of the scapula with the plane of which it is nearly parallel: the acromial ter- mination is slightly twisted. Both Cuvier and Meckel describe the spi- nous process of the scapula as the anterior margin, (superior costa in human anatomy,) and consequently consider the spine of the scapula as being absent. Cuvier says, " Le bord anterieure descend presque droit jusqu'a l'endroit ou il se courbe en dedans pour former une apophyse, qui porte la fourchette." Meckel recognises this process as the acromion :" Margo anterior partis superioris versus inferiora ex- trorsum primo flexus, dein eminentiam, acro- mion, antrorsum et introrsum versam, emittit." The ' margo anterior' of Meckel, ' bord ante- rieure' of Cuvier, is, in fact, the true spine of the scapula, and the true ' margo anterior' is the ridge above described. The proof of this is afforded by the origin of the supra-spinatus muscle which occupies the space between Meckel's ' margo anterior' and the ridge which I regard as the true anterior costa, and which is not noticed by either of the anato- mists above quoted. Since the scapula is peculiarly characterized in Mammalia by the presence of a spine and in Ovipara by its absence, its recognition in the Monotremes, under the modification by which its apparent absence is occasioned, and the transition to the oviparous type of this bone is effected, becomes a subject of especial in- terest. The whole scapula is broader, thicker, and less curved in the Echidna than in the Orni- thorhynchus. In both Monotremes, the pos- terior margin or costa is concave, most so in the Ornithorhynchus, and in both it is turned towards the trunk, so that the sub-scapular surface looks obliquely forwards and inwards. The articular surface is divided into two facets: the one, internal and flat, articulates with the coracoid; the other, external, is slightly con- cave, and contributes, with a similar but nar- rower concave surface of the coracoid, to form the glenoid cavity for the humerus. The coracoid (Jig. 173, g, o) early coalesces with the scapulain the Ornithorhynchus; it main- tains its independent condition to a later period in the Echidna. In both it is a strong, subcom- pressed, subelon^ate bone, expanded at both ends; one of these is articulated and anchylosed with the scapula, as above described; the other is joined to the anterior and external facet of the manubrium sterni. The posterior margin of the coracoid is concave and free; the anterior margin is straight and articulated with a thin broad irregularly quadrilateral plate of bone in the Ornithorhynchus, and a thicker and nar-