PISCES. 964 the greater part of the roof of the mouth, and likewise supporting all the formidable teeth with which this jaw is armed. Posteriorly it gives attachment to the inferior maxilla by two large articulating surfaces, and above it is only con- nected to the skull by the muscles implanted into it. From its upper margin it gives off a process, shown in the figure, which remains permanently cartilaginous, and in the living state is imbedded among the muscles that form the inner wall of the orbit; the whole is thus left completely moveable so as to give great latitude to the motions of the jaws. The superior maxillary bone (Jig. 497, d) and the intermaxillary bone (c) are of very small size, being merely imbedded in the substance of the upper lip and connected superiorly by ligament to the face and the piece last described. Inferiorly these bones are attached to a third ( fig. 497, e,) which is fixed by ligaments to the outer Fig. 497. Inferior view of the skull, branchial arches, and pec- toral apparatus, of Squalus centrina. ( After Cams.) a, nasal cavity; b, c.lfactory organ; c, superior labial or intermaxillary cartilage ; d, intermaxillary bones ; e, inferior portion extending between tbe preceding and the lower jaw; e, e, e, e, central sternum-like pieces ; /. /, /,/, branchial arches; i, i, i, branchial appendages; k, scapular zone; I, m, n, pectoral fins. surface of the lower jaw at about one-fourth part- of its length from the symphysis, so that the three together form an osseous and ligamentous band that circumscribes the angle of the mouth and materially diminishes the rictus of the' jaws. The inferior piece (e) is most probably one of the elements belonging to the lower jaw detached from its usual connections with that bone. The inferior maxilla (Jig. 497, f) consists of two lateral halves united by a symphysis; each half consists of a single piece of considerable breadth, presenting a deep sulcus superiorly for the lodgement of the teeth. The branchial apparatus is placed further back than in the osseous Fishes, being situated beneath the commencement of the spine—a circumstance which causes the bones of the shoulder to recede backwards also. The whole of the opercular apparatus is wanting in the cartilaginous Fishes with the exception of the Sturgeons ( Sturionidte), which seem in many respects to occupy an interme- diate place between them and the osseous division. The os hyoides in Squatina and the Sharks generally is composed of three pieces, one situated in the mesial line, and two lateral branches. The mesian piece or body of the os hyoides corresponds to the bones of osseous Fishes; while the large rami, instead of mounting up to be connected with the sty- loid bones, terminate immediately behind the articulation of the lower jaw, with which they are intimately connected by means of strong ligaments. From its posterior margin branchiostegous rays are given off precisely as in the former group, but these have nothing to do with the formation of an opercular flap, the branchial apertures being here of a very diffe- rent character. The branchial arches in their general arrange- ment resemble those of the osseous Fishes, but there are nevertheless important differences to beremarked. In Squatina there exists inferiorly a kind of sternal apparatus which occupies the mesial line. This consists posteriorly of a cen- tral piece (497, e, e, e,) that very nearly resembles a broad spear-head, forming a kind of sternum, the handle of the spear closely representing the xiphoid cartilage of the human sternum ; and in front of this are three pieces on each side, something like the costal cartilages. Of these the anterior pair are united to each other in the mesial line, while the second and third are fixed to the sides of the central piece first men- tioned. The arches supporting the branchise are five in number on each side, (Jig. 497, f, f) each consisting of an inferior and superior por- tion connected with each other by moveable articulations. The inferior portion consists of a single piece, the superior of two, united together by ligaments. The anterior arch is connected by ligaments to the body of the os hyoides, and also to the central pieces. The four posterior are attached by ligament to the succeeding lateral processes of the sternal apparatus, and thus a framework is formed that almost entirely surrounds the neck. The superior extremities of these arches are fixed beneath the anterior