MOTION. 435 effect of the stroke. In the back stroke, the thigh (d, fig. 229) moves first, describing an arc of a circle about their iliac extremity, from d to d' and d" successively. During this move- ment the legs e and tarsi j are flexed pas- sively, and carried forwards to e',f, so as to act with little effect on the water. The two thighs d" d" begin to approach their greatest flexion forwards, the legs e' c' and the phalanges f"f" extend in succession, so that the water opposes resistance to only one of them at a time. The tarsi (/") having been completely extended outwards, the two legs are suddenly carried backwards, pressing on the water, with the entire plane of the tarsi, and as the silky fringes which cover the phalanges are extended at the same instant, their surface is considerably augmented. The other parts of the two legs press- ing upon the tarsi, as in the walk or the leap, projects the body forward in the direction of its axis. In walking, the two members of the same pair act alternately, in order to serve, each in its turn, as a support to the centre of gravity. In swimming, on the contrary, the body being supported by the water, the two members move simultaneously, in order to give the greater impulse, and it is in this respect that swimming differs essentially from walking, and more nearly approaches leaping. The middle legs of the Dytiscus act in a manner similar to the posterior, but being shorter and weaker, contribute little towards accele- rating the movements of the animal; the an- terior pair appear to be used chiefly for the purpose of altering the direction of its motion. The motions of insects in the water may be thus explained : let u b (Jig. 230,) be the axis of the body passing through the centre of gravity o ; and let co be the excess of the specific gra- vity of the water over that of the insect, acting in a vertical direction upwards ; and do the re- sistance of the water to the insect moving in a direction oblique to the axis of the body; this Fig. 230. latter force is decomposed into two forces, one in d g parallel, and the other in d c or g o perpendicular to the body, the former of which is lost, and the latter forces it obliquely down- wards and backwards; this force being com- bined with the force of the water c o produces a resultant in h o, opposite to d o, which is the force by which the insect ascends passively. On the other hand, when the insect moves ho- rizontally with its axis inclined in a b, and its centre of gravity in o, (Jig. 231,) let its Fig. 231. '■J A figure from Straus-Durcltlteim, to illmtrate the movements of insects swimming horizontally. velocity be represented by h o, so that the force in this direction may be the resultant of the forces of the locomotive organs, of the water c o, and of the resistance which it opposes to the motion of the body in the direction of d o, opposite to /( o. The resistance of the liquid in d o, acting obliquely upon the plane of the body, a b, (which is known from the velocity of the body and the inclination of its axis to the horizontal plane,) may be decomposed into two forces, one in d g or e o parallel, and the other in d e or g o perpendicular to the body ; the former is ineffective, and the latter tends to force the body backwards and downwards. The force g o, being combined with that of the water c o, produces the resultant i o, which, with the force of the oars, must give the two components of h o. Completing the parallelogram of forces, of which h o is the diagonal, we find that the legs must generate a force represented in magnitude and direction by f o, and it is in the direction of this com- ponent, or, more correctly, in a line parallel to it, that the centre of force of the feet ought to act, which is in fact the case. The Hydrophilus has nearly the same form as the Dytiscus, but is not quite so well or- ganized for swimming. The Gyrinus also, as well as the Hydrophilus, swims in conformity with the same principles as the Dytiscus. The Nepa, being ill organized for swimming, usually walks in the water. The Ih/drometru being so light, and having a little globule of air attached to its feet, has the power of swimming on the water without sinking. The Notonccta, in which the centre of gravity lies above the centre of 2 f 2