considering other views which have been en- tertained respecting it. We shall now take a retrospective glance at the II. Histoey of opinions.—In the earlier ages of the world, before the true method of philosophising on any subject was under- stood, it was considered as a sufficient ex- planation of any phenomenon to apply to it some abstract term, expressing a vague idea of a property inherent in the body which ex- hibited it, without attempting to ascertain the conditions of its operation* Thus, all the phenomena of the movements of the heavenly bodies were attributed to the agency of a " principle of motion," the laws of which were scarcely even sought for. In like manner, the simple optical fact—that, when the sun's light passes through a hole, the bright image, if formed at a considerable distance from it, is always round, instead of imitating the figure of the aperture,—was attributed by Aristotle to the " circular nature" of the sun's light; whilst the mere consideration that the rays of light travel in straight lines, would, if properly applied, have explained this pheno- menon, not only as regards the sun, but in the case of any other round luminous body placed at a sufficient distance. It is not wonderful, then, that the still more intricate nature of the phenomena exhibited by living beings, the obvious tendency of those presented by each individual towards the same end, and the se- ductive simplicity of the hypothesis, should have induced the philosophers of that age to regard all vital actions as the immediate results of one common cause; but that such a belief should have maintained its ground, with but little alteration, to the present day, can only be regarded as a proof of the lamentable de- ficiency in truly philosophical views among the cultivators of physiology. To the supposed cause of vital phenomena the term Life was applied by the older philo- * This mode of philosophising has been very happily ridiculed by Fontenelle. " Let us ima- gine," he says, " all the sages collected at an opera—the Pythagorases, Platos, Aristotles, and all those great names which now-a-days make such a noise in our ears—let us suppose that they see the flight of Phaeton as he is represented carried off by the Winds ; that they cannot perceive the cords to which he is attached, and that they are quite ignorant of everything behind the scenes. It is a secret virtue, says one of them, that carries off Phaeton.—Phaeton, says another, is composed of certain numbers which cause him to ascend. A third says, Phaeton has a certain affection for the top of the stage ; he does not feel at his ease when he is not there—Phaeton, says a fourth, is not formed to fly ; but he likes better to fly than to leave the stage empty; and a hundred other ab- surdities of this kind, that would have ruined the reputation of antiquity, if the reputation of anti- quity for wisdom could have been ruined. At last come Descartes and some other moderns, who say, Phaeton ascends because he is drawn by cords, and because a weight more heavy than he is descending as a counterpoise. Thus to see nature as it really is, is to see the back of the stage at the opera."— Quoted in Brown's Lectures on Mental Philosophy, Lect. v. LIFE. 143 sophers, who regarded it as a distinct entity or substance, material or immaterial, residing in certain forms of matter; and the cause, both of their organisation, and of the peculiar actions exhibited by them.* Every sect had its own notion of the origin and nature of this entity; some regarding it as a kind of fire; others as a kind of air, ether, or spirit; and others, again, merely as a kind of water. The fable of Pro- metheus embodies this doctrine in a mytho- logical form, the artist being described as vivi- fying his clay statues by fire stolen from the chariot of the sun. Whatever was the idea entertained as to the character of this agent, all regarded it as universally pervading the world, and as actuating all its operations in the capacity of a life or soul; whilst a special division of it—a divince particula aura—regu- lated the concerns of each individual organism. The opinions of Aristotle on this subject are very interesting, as presenting evidence of the tendency of his powerful mind to elevate itself above the level of his age, and as showing how completely even lie was bound down by the prevalent tendency to hypothetical specu- lation, which seemed to offer so easy a solu- tion to all the mysteries of Nature. " In con- sidering what holds the fabric of the universe together, and forms out of the discordant ele- ments a harmonious whole, he infers from analogy that it must be something similar in kind to that which forms and holds together an organised body, namely, a principle of life; and that this principle, from the appearance of order and design displayed in the universe, must also have intelligence." " Besides this supreme animating principle (<fcucrt;), the au- thor and preserver of all, there are many others which, by delegated powers, organise the bo- dies of animals and plants, so that all organised bodies whatever are to be considered as con- structed by and constructed for their animating principles, which, like the great animating principle, from being invisible to mortal eyes, indicate their existence, their energies, and their species, only through the medium of the structures •"hich 'hey form. Now, of these structures they are not only the efficient causes but, in his opinion, the formal and the final; the causes of their motions, growth, and nu- trition ; the causes which give them a character and form; the causes on whose account they exist; and even the causes of their being after- wards liable to corruption, as nothing is cor- rupted but what has been nourished, and has some time or other partaken of life. But, besides being causes of organised structures in these different senses, they are subordinate to a higher power, which prescribes their operations, not merely with reference to their separate and individual plans, but with a reference at the same time to that general and comprehensive * The term Yi^i was applied by the Grecian philosophers to designate this animating prin- ciple, which included, with what is now known as the vital principle, the sensory and intellectual faculties. To the series of vital actions which, by many modern physiologists, is spoken of as Life, the term %m was given by the Greeks,