854 OSSEOUS TISSUE. dened to be correct, the parietes of medullary cavity should not show colour, as here absorp- tion is supposed to be going on. From what is already known, I think that the bones are coloured by the madder just in proportion to their powers of imbibition, which will be in inverse proportion to the amount of phosphate of lime which they contain. As regards the growth of bone, the laws common to the growth of every other tissue and to the whole body will, I think, be found to hold good. And the growth of these organs will be found to be interstitial, pervading the whole substance, though the action will be more energetic at some points than at others, as the neighbouring organs may require greater length or breadth in one direction than in an- other. The younger the bone the more rapid will be its growth, but this law is common to all the tissues. The increase of length of a long bone at the epiphysis must not be confounded with growth of the bone, for here, so long as car- tilage connects the shaft with the epiphysis, osseous tissue is being developed; whereas, in speaking of the growth of bones, the increase of the tissue already developed is alone meant. Of the developement of osseous tissue.—As the developement takes place in cartilage, and as the cartilage undergoes some change pre- vious to its giving place to bone, it will be well to give a slight sketch of the structure of temporary cartilage before going into the for- mation of the more permanent tissue. The rudimentary condition of cartilage may be best examined in the fcetal chicken, a few days after the commencement of incubation. The exact time for making the observation will be found by taking an egg for examination every six hours, commencing after the eggs have been exposed to the due temperature for thirty-six hours. On the first appearance of the verte- bral column, which will present a semitrans- parent line in the length of the developing foetus, the whole must be removed with great care to the field of the microscope. This part of the operation requires some care, but with a little management may be successfully performed. I found but little difficulty in removing the delicate object after adopting the following plan. Having, in the first place, placed the egg in a dish of water of sufficient depth to cover it, let the shell be carefully removed; then, by moving the water with the assistance of a camel's-hair brush, take away the albumen so as to leave the yelk free. The point where deve- lopement is going on will then be sufficiently conspicuous. At a considerable distance around this the membrane of the yelk should, with a pair of sharp scissors, be cut through, and carefully separated with the aid of a camel's- hair brush and a pair of forceps. This having been effected, the subject for examination will be left on the surface of the yelk, and may, with delicate manipulation with the pencil, be removed to a slip of glass held near it under the surface of the water. Having completed your purpose so far, the glass must be raised very slowly from the water, so that the spe- cimen may not float off, and this being covered with a little thin talc or glass supported at the sides, so that it shall not press upon the em- bryo to be removed to the field of the micro- scope. If the specimen be favourable, the semitransparent line of the vertebral column will under a low power appear made up of a vast number of clear colourless oval cells, so closely connected as to leave no appreciable space between the individuals composing the mass. Under a higher power, however, each cell will present a definite outline with a central nucleus or nuclei, and even in some nucleoli. The cells give the appearance of density and clearness of substance, and with their definite and smooth outline present a great contrast to the highly granular cells of developement that surround them. In each vertebra there is some show of a radiate arrangement, for many cells are egg-shaped, and have their small ends placed towards the centre of the growing mass. At this period of the formative process the cells are so close to each other that there is no space for intercellular tissue. With the growth of the embryo the cartilage advances, and its developement as a perfect tissue is completed by the separation of the cells from each other by the interposition of an intercellular tissue. This latter is trans- parent and dense, but without traces of defi- nite structure, unless it be a minutely granular tissue. Temporary cartilage is thus shown to be composed of cells having parietes and con- tents, and intercellular, (seet/zg.457)or, as some have called it, hyaline substance, through which the cells or cor- puscles are equally dis- tributed. In cartilage thus constituted, the developement of bone proceeds. With the commencement of the developement of bone, great changes occur in the arrangement of th§ cartilage corpuscles as the immediate prece- dents of ossification. They are no longer equally distributed through the hyaline substance, but are found arranged in pa- rallel columns of varia- ble lengths, in the line of the length of the bone. The corpuscles forming into columns neces- sarily leave intervening columns of intercel- lular tissue. A notion has pretty generally prevailed that the corpuscles already formed marshal themselves into this order. I think, however, that on further investigation it will be found that each corpuscle has developed others, and that they have been developed in one direction only, and that towards the line where osseous formation has commenced; for we find that the first perceptible change in a, temporary carti- lage, with the corpus- cles and intercellular tissue; b, temporary cartilage, with the cor- puscles forming for ossi- fication.