820 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 48.73 grs. of acetate of silver left 31.49 grs. of metallic silver. 17.'24 grs. will therefore express the loss, due to the united weight of acetic acid and oxygen combined with the silver. \ Equ.ofsil. 31.49 : \ 108 : : 17.24 : x (=59) \ 1 equ. oxy. 59— I 8 = 51, the equivalent num- ber of acetic acid. Another example will shew the method of calculating the number of equivalents of each element in the compound. By analysis with oxide of copper we find 10 grs. of acetate of silver yield 5.277 grs. of carbonic acid and 1.620 grs. of water and calculating from the previous experiment. . 6.462 silver, this is equivalent to .... 1.439 carbon 0.180 hydrogen The deficiency is 1919 oxygen. 10.000 Then Silv. 6.462 by proportion— Eq.sil. S Carb. : 108 : : ( 1.439 : *.(== C. 24), or 4 6.462 : 108 : t Hydrog. : I 0.180 : *(= H. 3), or 3 6.462 : 108 : i Oxygen : ( 1.919 : *(== 0. 32), or 4 Total. 59 deduct 1 equivalent of oxygen 8 and we obtain the equivalent i H„ r u j . •, } 51,01^ H3 of anhydrous acetic acid.. S I03 Sometimes no compound with silver can be obtained, and a salt of lead is then, if prac- ticable, substituted for it. The residue, how- ever, in this case does not consist entirely of metallic lead, neither is it all oxide of lead. It is carefully weighed, treated with acetic acid in the crucible itself; the oxide of lead is thus dissolved and washed away. When the con- tents of the crucible have been carefully dried, a second weighing gives the quantity of me- tallic lead, whilst the loss furnishes that of the oxide. From the metal we calculate the quan- tity of oxide to which it is equivalent; this added to the portion dissolved by acetic acid furnishes the whole quantity of oxide con- tained in the compound:—a calculation similar to that employed for the silver salt, then sup- plies us with the means of determining the equivalent number of the body analysed. This method is not quite so accurate as the preceding; it involves more manipulation, and the com- pounds of lead are apt to undergo slight loss by volatilization at a high temperature. It would here be out of place to enter into detail into the methods of checking the cor- rectness of an analysis in its various parts. Upon this point the reader is referred for in- formation to Liebig's Intioduction to Organic Analysis. The subject is an important one, and by no means sufficiently attended to by the majority of those who devote themselves to analytical researches of this description. The number of authors who have written upon the methods of analysis is very great; and their instructions are found more in de- tached papers, scattered through the various scientific periodicals than in systematic treatises. The works which may be consulted with espe- cial advantage on proximate analysis are Berze- lius's Lehrbuch Uer Chemie, third German edition, translated by Wohler, 10 vols. 8vo.; the fourth edition of Front's Treatise on Diseases of the Stomach and Urinary Organs, and his papers in theMedico-Chirurgical and Philoso- phical Transactions; G.O. Fees on the Analysis of Blood and Urine ; Lecanu, Ann. de Chimie, xlviii., and various papers on the blood ; Simon, Handbuch der augewandten Medizinischen Chemie, 2 vols. 8vo. 1840-42; one of the most recent and best treatises on animal che- mistry, full of laborious and careful analyses, with copious and accurate directions for their performance. This work is now being trans- lated into English. For directions for analysing the inorganic constituents of organized compounds the reader is referred in particular to Rose's Analytical Chemistry, either the fourth German edition, or the English translation of the first edition by Griffin. Ample instructions for the ultimate analysis of organic substances are furnished in Liebig's Organic Analysis, translated by Gregory, and forming one of the series of works published in Griffin's Scientific Miscellany, and in the fifth volume of Dumas' Traile de Chemie Appliquce aux Arts, as well as in the volumes of Berzelius already referred to. A valuable treatise has recently been pub- lished in German by Voge!,jun. on the ap- plication of the microscope to the field of animal organic chemistry—" Anleitung zum Gebrauche des Mikroskops zur Zoochemischen Analyse und zur Mikroscopisch-chemischen unlersuchung uberhaupt." (W. A. Miller.) OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.)—One of the most striking and distinctive characters peculiar to the highest grades of animal existences, the Vertebrata, is that they have their bodies supported by, and as it were moulded upon, an internal frame-work, which is generally made up of numerous pieces, very various in their forms and uses, w hich are called the bones ; and the assemblage of them, whatever their modifica- tion, constitutes the skeleton. Seeing the great diversity of forms and habits in the innumerable races of animals constituting this great group of living beings, some being specially appointed to occupy the waters of our globe, others to inhabit the marsh and the swamp, whilst others again tread the firm sur- face of the ground, or raise themselves into the regions of the thin air; and that under all the diversified shapes of Fishes, Reptiles,Birds, and Mammifers, we are prepared, a priori, to