876 PACINIAN BODIES. Fig. 481. Sphenoidal and vomerine plates and are divided into communicating cells by longitudinal or slightly oblique lamellae of bone. In the Babiroussa there are four rows of such cells, and in the common Hog seven or eight. In the Hippopotamus and Rhinoceros the fron- tal sinuses can scarcely be said to exist. The maxillary sinuses are very large in the Elephant, and are divided into numerous inter- communicating cells which open into the side of the nose by a wide orifice. In the Hog tribe these sinuses do not exist, but in their stead their is a cavity in the malar bone, which in the Ethiopic Boar is very large. A similar cavity of smaller size exists in the Hippopo- tamus. The sphenoidal sinuses are very small except in the Elephant, in which, like the preceding, they are of unusual dimensions, extending even into the pterygoid processes; but they are not divided into cells as are the other sinuses of this creature. Eye.—The optic apparatus requires but a few passing observations. The external boundary of the orbit is com- pleted by a strong ligamentous margin. The th'rd eyelid is very largely developed in the Elephant, and can be drawn over the eye- ball to a considerable distance towards the outer angle of the eye. It is provided in this animal with two special muscles which do not exist in other quadrupeds. One of these, which seems to draw the nictitating membrane over the eye-ball, arises from the lower margin of the orbit, towards the outer canthus; while the other, which is the antagonist of the former, draws it back again towards the inner angle. The Harderian gland is of very great size, and opens by a capacious duct upon the inner surface and close to the base of the third eyelid ; in some species, however, as in the Elephant, numerous small accessory glands are met with, the excretory orifices of which terminate near the margin of the nictitating membrane. The nictitating membrane itself is very large, and sometimes contains a flat, thin, and slightly curved cartilage. Moreover, in the Elephant especially this membrane really deserves to be considered as a proper eyelid, being moved by a distinct muscle, the nictitator, the fibres of which pass in a regular curve over the base of of a young Boar ( Sus Scrofa). the membrane, but afterwards deviate from the curve and form an angle to include the ex- tremity of the nictitating cartilage, which con- sequently moves in the diagonal of the con- tracting forces so as to be drawn outwards over the front of the eyeball. Ligamentum nucha. — The ligamentum nucha? is of enormous strength, more especially in the larger Pachydermata, such as the Ele- phant and Rhinoceros, where the ponderous head necessarily requires unusual support. In the American Tapir this ligament consists of three strong portions, two of which pass in a pa- rallel direction from the elongated spinous pro- cess of the first dorsal vertebrae, to be inserted together into the superior and posterior angle of the central ridge of the cranium supporting the whole length of the elevated crest and mane; the third portion runs beneath the other two, to be inserted into the most elevated part of the elongated spinous process of the vertebra den- tata. Bibliography. — Stuhely, Essay towards the anatomy of an Elephant, 1722. Duvernoi, Acta Petropolitana, 1727. Blair, Phil. Trans, abridged by Baddam, vol. v. Perrault, Memoires pour servir a 1'histoire naturelle des animaux. Buffon et Dau- benton, Histoire naturelle, 4to. 1764. Camper, Description anatomique d'un Elephant male, 1802. Pallas, Spicilegia zoologia, torn. i. 4to. 1784—con- tains an anatomical description of the Hyrax under the title of Cavia Capensis. Owen, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1830-31, and Yarrell, in the fourth vol. of Zoological Journal for dissections of the Tapir. Owen, Odontography; or, a treatise on the comparative anatomy of the teeth, 8vo. 1845. Cuvier, Anatomie comparee, 8vo.; Ossemens fossiles, 4to. (T. Rgmer Jones.) PACINIAN BODIES, so named after Filippo Pacini, professor of anatomy at Pisa, who discovered them in 1830, and subsequently published two memoirs upon them. They are peculiar minute organs appended to the ner- vous system, and present an arrangement alto- gether novel and full of interest, though as yet their use is entirely unknown. The essential structure of these corpuscles appears to be the following. A single tubular or white nervous fibre leaves the fasciculus of which it forms a part, and carrying with it a