293 MARSUPIALIA. From the fact that the cerebral organ is that which exhibits the most marked degradation of structure in the class of wurm-blooded Verte- brate animals which are characterized by an oviparous generation, I was induced to sus- pect, after having ascertained how closely the Marsupialia approached Birds in their mode of generation, that the brain might present in them some corresponding inferiority of structure, as compared with the Placental Mammalia. The brain in the placental Mammalia is es- sentially characterized by the complexity and magnitude of the apparatus by which the he- mispheres are brought into communication with one another. With respect 'to size, the cerebrum is in many species proportionally inferior to that of Birds; and in most Insecti- vorous and Rodent Mammalia it presents an equally smooth and uniform external surface; but notwithstanding the absence of convolu- tions and its diminished size, a large appa- ratus of medullary fibres is present, which connect together the opposite hemispheres, as well as the distant parts of the same hemi- sphere; and this apparatus, or great commis- sure, is superadded to the anterior, posterior, and soft commissures, which, with the excep- tion of a very slight rudiment of the fornix, are alone developed in Birds for the purpose of uniting the opposite sides of the brain. In the higher Mammalia, in which the cerebral hemispheres acquire superior size and increased extent of surface by means of convolutions, the superadded commissural apparatus presents a corresponding development and a highly com- plicated structure; its several parts being dis- tinguished as the corpus callosum, fornix, and their intercommunicating lamina?, termed the septum lucidum. The corpus callosum is the principal bond of union between the opposite hemispheres; it extends, as is well known, horizontally above the ventricles, its middle fibres passing trans- versely, while those of its extremities, which are more or less bent beneath its body, radiate, and all intermix, in apposition with the as- cending and diverging fibres of the peduncles of the cerebral hemispheres. It has hitherto been considered as the great characteristic of the brain in the Mammalia, and, taking the human brain as the term of comparison, to be developed in the ratio of the magnitude of the cerebral hemispheres. In the placental Mammalia this is a pretty accurate expression of the relations of the corpus callosum; and as the posterior lobes of the hemispheres are the first to disappear in the descending comparison, so the corpus cal- losum diminishes in longitudinal extent from behind forwards, and thus the corpora quadrige- mina, pineal gland, and posterior part of the optic thalami are successively brought into view on divaricating the cerebral hemispheres in the different Mammalia, as the Rodentia, Chei- roptera, and Edentata, which exhibit this pro- gressive degradation of the great commissure. An attentive study of the manners of dif- ferent Marsupials in confinement, and an in- spection of the exterior forms of the brain in some of the species, induced me to allude, in my paper on the generation of the Kangaroo,* to an inferiority of intelligence and a low de- velopment of the cerebral organ, as being the circumstances in the habits and structure of these singular animals, which were most con- stantly associated with the peculiarities of their generative economy. I have since derived the most satisfactory confirmation of this coinci- dence from repeated dissections of the brains of Marsupials belonging to different genera; and although unable to explain how a brief intra-uterine existence and the absence of a placental connexion between the mother and fcetus can operate (if it be really effective and any thing more than a relation of simple co- existence) in arresting the development of the brain, yet it is a coincidence which has not been suspected, and is, in various points of view, perhaps the most interesting of the ana- tomical peculiarities of the quadrupeds here treated of. In order to obtain satisfactory proof of the difference in the structure of the brain in the marsupial and placental quadruped, I have dissected and compared together, step by step, the brains of a VVombat and Beaver. These animals are of nearly equal bulk, and manifest so many mutual affinities in their structure that they have been classed in the same order of Mammalia. The Wombat is, in fact, in all its exterior characters, save the marsupial and scrotal pouch, a Rodent; and in its internal anatomy, especially its digestive organs, more nearly resembles the Beaver than do many of the true Rodent animals. The brain of the Beaver was also preferred for this comparison of internal organization, because, on an out- ward inspection, it would be pronounced to be the less highly organized of the two; the hemispheres in the Wombat presenting a few convolutions, as before described, whilst in the Beaver they are perfectly smooth. In the Beaver, however, the cerebrum is ex- tended further backward, although it still leaves the cerebellum quite uncovered; while in the Wombat a portion of the optic lobes (corpora quadrigemina) is also exposed. On divaricating the hemispheres of the brain in the Beaver we bring into view, about three lines below the surface, the corpus callosum ; and on removing the cerebral substance to a level with this body, its fibres are observed to diverge into the substance of each hemisphere in the usual manner, some bending upwards, but a greater proportion arching downwards and embracing the cerebral nuclei; the anterior fibres radiating into the anterior, the posterior fibres into the posterior extremities of the hemispheres. The portions of the brain which are removed in thus tracing the extent of the corpus callo- sum, bring into view the corpora bigemina and the pineal gland ; but the optic thalami are concealed by the great commissure above described. On separating the hemispheres of the brain of the Wombat, not only the bigeminal bodies ( B, fig. 117,) and pineal gland (u, fig. 117,) * Phil. Trans. 1334, p. 358.