716 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) When there has been a solution of continuity and a loss or removal of any portion of the cranium, the exposed surface of the dura mater is apt to throw out a growth of granulations which constitute the fungus of the dura mater, analogous to that which sprouts from the sur- face of a similar fibrous membrane—the tunica albuginea of the testicle. In point of structure this fungoid growth is the same as the granula- tions on the surface of external ulcers. Effusion of blood, constituting a form of meningeal apoplexy, may occur on the external surface of the dura mater separating it from the bone; or on its internal surface, dissecting away the arachnoid membrane from its adhesion to the dura mater. The former kind is mostly if not always traumatic, that is, resulting from the application of violence to the exterior of the cranium The latter kind is of extremely rare occurrence, and must be carefully distinguished from that variety of effusion into the arachnoid sac in which the effused blood appears to be covered by a serous membrane. This mem- brane, however, results from the condensation of the superficies of the clot by its friction against the parietal arachnoid, and it may be distinguished from a true serous membrane by the absence of epithelium from its free surface. Effusions of either kind generally occur on some part of the surface of the cerebral hemi- spheres above the level of the petrous bone. The arachnoid membrane. — The arach- noid membrane is sometimes the seat of acute inflammation, and presents the same signs of that process as are met with in other serous membranes. The chief and, indeed, the only unequivocal sign of his condition as of recent occurrence is the exudation of plastic lymph upon the free surface of either or both layers of the membrane, with or without pus. This is attended with a highly injected state of the subjacent tissue (pia mater or dura mater, generally the former). The arachnoid itself, it will be remembered, contains no blood- vessels, but derives its nourishment from the vessels of the subserous tissue. Its apparent, vascularity is due to its great tenuity and trans- parency, which allow the bloodvessels lying underneath to be seen through it as if they be- longed to the membrane itself. An opaque condition of the arachnoid, vary- ing both in degree and extent, is a very common appearance of this membrane, especially at the middle and advanced periods of life. This occurs sometimes in patches; at other times it is generally diffused over the whole membrane. It is most conspicuous on the convex surface of the brain, especially towards the great longi- tudinal fissure, and it is frequently associated with large and numerous Pacchionian bodies. It occurs, however, very commonly at the base, and frequently opposite the confluxes of the subarachnoid fluid. The opacity of the arachnoid is commonly attributed to a former acute inflammation of the membrane, or to a chronic inflammation going on up to the time of death. But this state of the membrane is of such frequent oc- currence, and is so often found in persons who evinced no sign of important organic change during life, that it seems scarcely correct to attribute it to such a cause. It is not meant to deny that previous inflammation or chronic inflammation is capable of causing these opaque spots, but undoubtedly other causes may produce them as well. The friction of two opposed surfaces may do it, and deposits upon the free surface of the membrane, an al- tered condition of the epithelium, may have the same effect. Some recent microscopical examinations convince me that morbid deposits similar to those which are formed on the coats of arteries, may be found here, and occur in those morbid states of the blood, and conse- quently of the whole system, which are favour- able to the deposition of a morbid material throughout the arterial system, or in the sub- stance of viscera.* In confirmation of this view it may be stated that opacities of the arachnoid are most com- mon after the middle period of life, and that they are then almost uniformly associated with a morbid state of the arteries of the brain and of other portions of the arterial system. Adhesion between the opposed surface of the visceral and parietal layers of the arachnoid is (and the fact is curious) not of frequent oc- currence, excepting at the convex border of the falx cerebri, where the Pacchionian bodies are found. And the intrusion of these bodies into the longitudinal sinus frequently increases the closeness of that adhesion. The cellular ad- hesion so common in other serous membranes is rarely found in the arachnoid. Small plates of cartilage or of bone are some- times found in connection with the arachnoid. Their formation is generally the result of a pre- vious morbid deposit which has subsequently become converted into cartilage or bone. Effusion.—Effusions take place either into the subarachnoid or the arachnoid cavity. The existence of serum, in undue quantity, in the former situation, must be looked on as an in- crease in the fluid which naturally occupies that space, and as we have already remarked in a former part of this article, it takes place in consequence of the failure of the normal pres- sure upon the vascular surface, and may rather be regarded as tending to preserve the functions of the brain than as producing an injurious pressure upon it. Indeed I have always found that in cases where an abnormal quantity of fluid existed in the subarachnoid cavity, the brain afforded no indication of its having expe- rienced undue pressure previous to death. In such cases the brain seems to contain less blood than natural, and its anaemia is most obvious in the grey matter. Sometimes there is hyperemia of the veins in the white matter of the hemispheres, as if the heart's force, more necessary to the venous circulation within the cranium than even to that of other parts of the body, had been prevented from exerting its influence through the capillaries upon the blood in the veins. * It is probably to deposits of this kind that Ro- kitansky refers under the title of " Gallent'ettige Concretionen."