640 NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) pia mater exists in connexion with brain or spinal cord, whether on the surface of these organs, or in the ventricles of the former. It serves to fill up various inequalities in the cra- nial or spinal walls, and it accumulates in greatest quantity in those situations where the sub-arachnoid space affords the greatest ca- pacity. Majendie describes four situations at which this fluid accumulates in greater quantity than at other places on the surface of the brain. The most considerable of these, which he desig- nates the posterior conjiu.v, is situated below and behind the cerebellum; it corresponds to the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, and is covered behind by the layer of arachnoid which extends between the medulla and the cere- bellum. (Vid.supr.p.638.) It is here that, ac- cording to Majendie, a communication takes place between the fluid on the exterior and that in the ventricles, at a point corresponding to the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. A second, or inferior conflux is found immedi- ately in front of the pons Varolii; it is situated between the crura cerebri, and contains the basilar artery. It is, in fact, only the posterior part of what Majendie designates the anterior conflux, which extends forwards to the com- missure of the optic nerves, occupying the central depression between the middle lobes of opposite sides, and bathing in its fluid the commissure, the tuber cinereum, the infundi- bulum, and the trunks of the anterior cerebral arteries. It communicates with the posterior fissure beneath the crura cerebelli. The posi- tion and the extent of this conflux is indicated by the separation of the visceral layer of the arachnoid membrane over the central part of the base of the brain. Doubtless the accumu- lation of fluid around so many parts of impor- tant function and delicate structure, is a va- luable safeguard to them against the communi- cation of shocks from the walls of the cra- nium. A fourth conflux is called superior ; it is situated behind and a little below the level of the corpus callosum, behind the pineal gland, and above the tubercula quadrigemina. It communicates around the crura cerebri with the anterior conflux, and with the posterior conflux by the fissures which separate the superior ver- miform process from the hemispheres of the cerebellum. The fluid contained in it bathes the pineal gland, the tubercula quadrigemina, the superior vermiform process, and the vena Galeni as they empty themselves into the strait sinus. As the fluid is in contact with pia mater, it is plain that it must surround and support the roots of all the nerves which proceed from both the brain and spinal cord, and that all the bloodvessels which penetrate or emerge from those organs, or which ramify in the pia mater, must also be bathed by it. The fluid surrounds the nerves as they emerge from the cranium or spine, and maintains contact between the layers of arachnoid membrane which compose the sheaths that accompany them in their passage outwards. Majendie states that this fluid accompanies the roots of the fifth pair of nerves as far as the Gasserian ganglion, and that it bathes and mingles with the fibres of the ganglion itself, as well as of the three nerves which originate from it. This, however, I think extremely doubtful. That fluid exists in the ventricles of the brain has long been known to anatomists; and it seems highly probable that this fluid is se- creted by the processes of pia mater which are found in all these cavities; or possibly by the membrane which lines their surface. Does the internal fluid communicate with that in the sub-arachnoid space ? Majendie affirms that a communication takes place by means of an open- ing which is situated at the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. I have not been able to satisfy myself of the existence of such an open- ing; the following is Majendie's description of it: " The true orifice, constant and normal, by which the cerebro-spinal fluid continually passes, either to enter the ventricles or to issue from them, may be seen at the inferior termination of the fourth ventricle, at the place named ' le bee de la plume' by the old anato- mists. " To demonstrate the existence of this ori- fice it is necessary to raise up, and to separate slightly from one another, the lobules of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum, and without breaking any of the vascular ad- hesions which unite this part of the cerebellum with the spinal pia mater, we perceive the angular excavation which terminates the fourth ventricle. Its surface is smooth, even (polie), and is prolonged as far as the ventricle of the cerebellum. Such is the anterior part of the orifice: the lateral and superior parts are formed by the choroid plexuses of the organ and by a horny medullary lamella (valve of Tarin), the extent of which is variable, and which adheres to the prominent border of the fourth ventricle. The form and dimensions of the opening vary with the individual, and with the quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid, so that when the latter exists in considerable quantity the opening can admit the extremity of a finger. Most fre- quently, when the quantity of the liquid is normal, the orifice does not exceed two or three lines in diameter in every direction, but it is frequently subdivided by vessels which pass from the medulla oblongata to the cerebel- lum. Sometimes the orifice is restricted by one or by both of the posterior cerebellar arte- ries which pass across it." Such is the description of the orifice to which Majendie has given the high-sounding title " Orifice des cavites encephaliquts." He states that when fluid is injected into the spinal sub-arachnoid cavity, it makes its way into the ventricles of the brain through this orifice, a statement sufficiently difficult to prove. Crti- veilhier, who seems to lean towards Majendie's opinion, admits nevertheless .several weighty objections to it. The most important of these appears to me to be that the margins of the orifice which is brought into view by the me- thod directed by Majendie, are irregular, and have the appearance of lacerated membrane. And it is recorded by M. Martin St. Ange, on