329 MARSUPIALIA. portance in the structure of the Wombat, except this solitary character of the Marsupium, to separate it from the Rodent order?"—a ques- tion which he might in 1831 have asked with equal force in reference to any other Marsupial genus,—could only be answered satisfactorily by the submission of the Marsupialia in ques- tion to a thorough dissection. Although the Marsupials present modifica- tions of the dental system corresponding with the carnivorous, omnivorous, and herbivorous types, yet they agree with each other, and differ from the analogous Placental Mammalia in having four instead of three true molars, i. e. four molars which are not displaced and succeeded by others in the vertical direction. The incisor teeth, also, either exceed in number those of the analogous Placental classes, or are peculiarly arranged and opposed to each other. In the locomotive organs it is true that we see some of the Marsupials having a hinder thumb, like the Placental Quadrumana; others are digitigrade, with falculate claws, like the Placental Ferse; a third, as the Wombat, has the feet adapted for burrowing; a fourth, like the Cheironectes, is aquatic, and has webbed feet; yet all these Marsupials agree with each other in having a rotatory movement of the hind foot, analogous to the pronation and su- pination which, in the placental quadrupeds, are limited when enjoyed at all to the fore feet; and they manifest moreover a peculiar modi- fication of the muscles of the hind leg and foot in relation to these rotatory movements. In those Marsupials, as the Kangaroos, Potoroos, and Perameles, in which the offices of support and locomotion are devolved exclusively or in great part upon the hind legs, these are strengthened at the expense of the loss of the rotatory movements of the feet; but in the enormous development of the two outer toes, and the conversion of the two inner ones into unguiculate appendages, useful only in cleans- ing the fur, these Marsupials differ from all Placentals, whilst the same peculiar condition of the toes may be traced through the Pedima- nous group of Marsupials. Thus the locomo- tive organs, notwithstanding their adaptation to different kinds of progression, testify to the unity of the Marsupial group in the two remarkable peculiarities of structure above cited. The vascular system gives evidence to the same effect. We have seen that the Marsupials present the following peculiarities in the struc- ture of the heart: viz. the right auricle mani- fests no trace of either fossa uvalis or annulus ovalis, and receives the two vena cuva supe- riures by two separate inlets. This genera- lization is, however, less urgent than the pre- ceding in the present question, because the modification, as regards the separate entry of the superior vena? cavae, obtains in a few pla- cental species, as in the elephant and certain Rodents; but as the first cited cardiac cha- racter is common and peculiar to the Mar- supial Mammalia, and as the second, while it is universal in the Marsupials, occurs only as an exceptional condition in the placental series, the arguments which they afford to the unity of the Marsupial group cannot be over- looked in a philosophical consideration of the affinities of the Mammalia. With respect to the nervous system, it has been shown that in the structure of the brain, the Marsupialia exhibit a close correspondence with the Ovipara in the rudimental state of the corpus callosum ; the difference which the most closely analogous placental species offer in this respect is broadly marked. These coincidences in the Marsupialia of important organic modifications of the dental, locomotive, vascular, cerebral, and reproductive systems, establish the fact, that they constitute, with the Monotremes, a natural group inferior on the whole in organization to the Placental Mammalia. The following is a tabular view* of the subor- dinate divisions in the Marsupialia regarded as an order of the Implacental sub-class of Mam- malia :— * Of the various forms of Marsupial animals attempted to be arranged in natural groups in the present classification, it may be asked which is the typical form ? or in other words, which genus com- bines most of the points of organization peculiarly characterizing the Marsupialia? We have seen that certain modifications of the nervous, circulating, and generative systems are common to all the genera. But the female gene- rative organs approach nearest to the Rodent type in the small dorsigerous Opossums, in which the characteristic external pouch becomes very nearly obsolete. It is not the genus Dklelphys therefore that we should select as the type of the Marsupials. It appears to me that there is both a dental and a digital character which may be re- garded as eminently marsupial; the former, be- sides the number of true molar teeth, consists in the opposition of six vertical incisors above to a large procumbent single pair below ; the latter is exemplified in the atrophied and coadunate con- dition of the second and third digits of the hinder foot. The Phalangers, Petaurists, Koalas, Kan- garoos, and Potoroos possess, in addition to the ordi- nary Marsupial characters, both these modifications of teeth and digits. It seems, therefore, that it is from one of these genera that we should select the Marsupial type par excellence. If we say the Plta- lanysrs, it may be objected that the hinder hand and opposable prehensile thumb indicate in these a transition from the Marsupialia to the Quadru- mana. Should the Petauri be our choice, then again we perceive in the development of the lateral tegumentary folds, and their connection with the lo- comotive members, a tendency to the Plying Squir- rels. The tail-less Koala may be deemed to ex- hibit in its clumsy form and proportions a resem- blance to the tree-bears. The Kangaroos and Potoroos obviously typify the Rodent Jerboas, and they have lost the peculiar rotation of the hind leg and the muscular modification connected there- with. If, however, the type of a natural group of animals, and such I have proved the Marsupial group to be, is that which manifests the greatest number of the structural modifications peculiar to the group, and the smallest number of such as are common to other natural assemblages of Mammalia, then the Koala has the best claim to typical pre- eminence. The Marsupial bones might be readily supposed to afford a simple indication of the most peculiarly Marsupial animal, if they offered different relative magnitudes in different genera : now the range of variety in this respect is, in fact, consi- derable, and the Marsupial bones present their greatest development in the Koala.