(ESOPHAGUS. 758 tion to the sensations of any part, giving rise to emotions on which the mind frequently dwells, may so far modify the nutrition of the part as to become a cause of diseased action in it. All these facts, however, point rather to the uijiuence which the nervous system possesses over the organic functions, than to the dependence of these upon its agency; and it may be safely asserted that no such proof of its more direct influence, as is required to counterbalance the manifest improbability which has been shown to attend it, has yet been given. Some addi- tional considerations upon this important sub- ject will be offered under the head of Se- cretion. CW. B. Carpenter.) (ESOPHAGUS. (Ol'w, I cany, and (p*yu, I eat.)—Gr. olaocpayoq; Fr. cesophage; Ital. gold; Germ. Spemerohre. The oesophagus is that portion of the alimentary canal which intervenes between the inferior extremity of the pharynx and the cardiac orifice of the stomach. .It occupies the lower part of the cervical region, traverses the thorax, and enters the abdomen. Direction.—The direction of the oesophagus is nearly vertical; in the cervical region it deviates slightly to the left; in the upper part of the thorax it inclines somewhat to the right, and in the lower part of the same region it is again directed to the left, so as to occupy the median line during its passage through the diaphragm. Dimensions.—The oesophagus is not of uni- form diameter throughout its entire length. In the neck it is narrower than in any other region ; it consequently happens that a morsel of food too large to pass readily along the oesophagus, is usually arrested immediately after it has been transmitted from the pharynx. In its upper part the oesophagus is somewhat flattened and compressed in the antero-pos- tenor direction, but its inferior portion is more or less cylindrical, and presents the appearance of a rounded cord. Relations.—The oesophagus has many im- portant relations, which may be considered successively in the cervical, thoracic, and ab- dominal regions. In the cervical region it corresponds anteriorly to the membranous part of the trachea, with which it is connected by some intervening cellular tissue : in the lower part of the neck where it deviates to the left it comes in contact anteriorly with the left sterno-thyroid muscle, the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery, and the left recurrent nerve. Posteriorly it has the cervical vertebra? and the longus colli muscle, with which it is connected by means of loose cellular tissue, so that free movement of the oesophagus upon the spine is allowed during the process of deglutition. Laterally it is in relation with the thyroid body, with the common carotid arteries, and more externally with the vagi nerves and the internal jugular veins. In consequence of the oesophagus deviating slightly to the left in the lower part of the neck, its relations are somewhat different on the two sides. Thus the left common carotid is in closer relation with the oesophagus than the right. The left recur- rent nerve is anterior to the oesophagus, while the right is somewhat posterior. The thoracic portion of the oesophagus is placed in the posterior mediastinum. It cor- responds anteriorly to the trachea, and imme- diately below the bifurcation of the trachea to the left bronchus, which crosses it obliquely, to the arch of the aorta, to the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and to the base of the heart, from which it is separated by the pericardium. Posteriorly it has the spine, with which in the upper part of the chest it is in close contact; but as it descends it becomes separated from the spine by cellular membrane, by the right intercostal arteries, by the vena azygos, and by the thoracic duct, which in the lower part of the chest is on the right of the oesophagus, but ascending it passes behind and above is placed on its left side. At the inferior part of the thorax, immediately before passing through the diaphragm, the oesophagus has behind it the thoracic aorta. Laterally it has on its left the aorta, and on the right side the pleura forming the right layer of the posterior mediastinum. It is accompanied by the two vagi nerves, one on each side, which send numerous filaments from one to the other, and thus form the plexus gulae ; at the lower part of the chest the left vagus nerve becomes somewhat anterior, and the right posterior. This portion of the oesophagus is surrounded by a considerable quantity of loose cellular tissue and by several lymphatic glands. The abdominal portion of the oesophagus is very short, and has no relations of importance. After passing through the diaphragm it is co- vered both anteriorly and posteriorly by the peritoneum. It also comes into contact ante- riorly with the left lobe of the liver. Without depressing the stomach and elevating the dia- phragm this portion of the oesophagus cannot be seen, and, in fact, can scarcely be said to exist. Structure.—The oesophagus is ^composed of a muscular and a mucous coat, with some con- necting cellular tissue. The muscular coat of the oesophagus, which is considerably thicker than that of any other portion of the alimen- tary canal, consists of two distinct layers. The external layer is composed of fibres arranged in a longitudinal direction, and is twice the thickness of the internal layer, the fibres of which surround the canal in a circular man- ner. The longitudinal fibres are regularly disposed around the oesophagus; superiorly they arise in the median line from the pos- terior surface of the cricoid caitilage, and laterally on each side from the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle of the pha- rynx ; at the inferior extremity of the oesopha- gus they spread out and are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the stomach. The circular fibres are a continuation of the pos- terior part of the inferior constrictor muscle, but they are much more delicate than the fibres of this muscle. These fibres pass for the most part transversely ; the spiral arrangement which some anatomists have described does not ge-