MARSUPIALIA. 290 while the otlier tendon bends and pronates; this, which is a direct though partial continua- tion of the biceps, is inserted into the ordinary tubercle of the radius ; whereas the other ten- don is attached to the fore part of the proximal end of the ulna. The muscles which arise from the internal condyle of the humerus are the pronator teres, which has the usual origin, insertion, and rela- tive proportions, and next the palmaris longus. There are, likewise, distinct and strong fas- ciculi of muscles corresponding to the flexor carpi ulnaris and radialis, and to the flexor sub/imis digitorum. The strong ridge continued from the olecra- non to the posterior and inner part of the ulna gives origin to a great proportion of the oblique fibres of the flexor profundus; but both this and the flexor sublimh terminate in a single thick and strong tendon, which after passing the wrist divides into those corresponding with the perforating and perforated tendons here con- centrated upon the three long middle fingers. The pronator quadratus runs the whole length of the interosseous space, passing from the radius a little obliquely downwards to the ulna. The supinator longus, arising as usual from the upper part of the strongly developed ridge above the outer condyle, sends its tendon across the carpal joint, which tendon divides before it crosses, and is inserted by one of its divisions into the base of one of the metacarpal bones of the index finger, and the other to the adjoin- ing metacarpal bone. These are the principal muscles of the fore extremity which require notice in this place. Their modifications, in respect of number and strength, relate to the act of digging up the soil, which is habitual in the Bandicoots, as it is for the purpose of obtaining food, and not for shelter. It is for this purpose that the three middle digits of the hand are developed at the expense of the other two, which are rudimental; and we have seen that the whole powerof the deep and superficial flexors is concentrated upon the fossorial and well-armed fingers; and that by the single common tendon in which the fleshy fibres of these muscles terminate, they move them collectively and simultaneously. Thus variety of application, and especially the pre- hensile faculty, are sacrificed to the acquisition of force for the essential action. In no Marsupial is the hand so cramped as in the Perameles, excepting in the Cliaropus, where the functional and fossorial fingers are reduced from three to two. It is in relation to this condition, doubt- less, that the clavicles are wanting in these genera, while all other Marsupials possess them. The inverted position of the pouch in the Pera- meles might also be conceived to have relation to their imperfect hands, the mouth of the pouch being thus brought nearer to the vulva ; but I am disposed to regard it as being more essentially connected with the habitually in- clined or procumbent position of the trunk in the Saltatorial Entomophaga. The muscles of the hinder extremity are chiefly remarkable in the Kangaroo for their prodigious strength and unusual number: the accessory muscle of the biceps, e. g. is divided into two strong fasciculi, which unite to be inserted into the side of the patella;* the py- riformis is also a double muscle.f The sartorius has its insertion so modified that it becomes an extensor instead of a flexor of the tibia : it is chiefly fixed to the tibial side of the patella, and by fascia into the capsular ligament of the knee-joint and the anterior proximal tuberosity of the tibia. In a Dasyure (Das. macrurus) I found that the sartorius had a similar disposition and office. In this ambulatory carnivorous Marsupial the external and middle glutai are so disposed as to extend the thigh, while the internal glutaus inflects and rotates it inwards. In a Bandicoot (Perameles lagotis) the sar- torius ran nearly parallel with and dermad of the rectus, and was inserted into the upper part of the patella. Besides this sesamoid, which is rarely developed in other Marsupials, I found a thick cartilage attached to its upper part and interposed between the common ten- don of the recti and vasti, removing that tendon further from the centre of motion and increasing the power of the extensor muscles of the leg. The rectus Jhnoris has its two origins very distinct, and its analogy to the biceps of the upper extremity is very close. The gracilis is a very thick and strong muscle. The biceps flexor cruris in the Perameles is a muscle of very great strength ; it terminates in a strong and broad aponeurosis, which ex- tends over the whole anterior part of the tibia, being attached to the rotular tuberosity of that bone, and terminating below in the sheath of the tendo Achillis, whereby this muscle be- comes an extensor of the foot. It is a curious fact that all the equipedal Marsupials, whether burrowers as the Wom- bat, climbers as the Koala, Phalangers, and Opossums, or simply gressorial, as the Da- syurida:, have the tibia arid fibula so connected together as to allow of a certain degree of ro- tation upon each other, analogous to the pro- natory and supinatory movements of the bones of the antibrachium, and the muscles of the leg present corresponding modifications. It is not without interest in the question of the affinities of the Marsupials to find that none of the analogous carnivorous, pedimanous, or rodent Placentals present this condition of the hind leg. In the Dasyurus macrurus, the plantaris, instead of rising from the femur, has its fixed point in the fibula, from the head to half-way down the bone, fleshy; its tendon passes ob- liquely inwards and glides behind the inner malleolus to its insertion in the plantar fascia, so that it rotates the tibia inwards besides ex- tending the foot. The soleus has an extensive origin from the proximal to near the distal end of the fibula. There are as usual three deep- seated muscles at the back of the leg. Of these three the muscle analogous to the tibialis posticus is readily recognized; its tendon glides * Cuvier, loc. cit, p. 501. t Ibid. p. 502.