275 MARSUPIALIA. of the falciform ligament as in the Ornitho- rhynchus. The anterior depression or olfactory division of the cavity of the cranium, as it may be termed from its large size, is separated in a well-marked manner from the proper cerebral division of the cavity. It is relatively smallest in the Koala. In all Marsupials it is bounded anteriorly by the cribriform plate of the aeth- moid bone, which is converted into an osseous reticulation by the number and size of the olfactory apertures. The cavity of the nose, from its great size and the complication of the turbinated bones, forms an important part of the skull. It is divided by a complete bony septum to within one-fourth of the an- terior aperture; the anterior margin of the septum is slightly concave in the Koala; de- scribes a slight convex line in the Wombat, Kangaroo, and Phalanger, and a sigmoid flexuie in the Dasyure. A longitudinal ridge projects downwards from the inside of each of the nasal bones, and is continued posteriorly into the superior turbinated bone; this bone extends into the dilated space anterior to the cranial cavity, which corresponds with the frontal sinuses. The convolutions of the middle spongy bone are extended chiefly in the axis of the skull; the processes of the anterior con- voluted bone are arranged obliquely from below upwards and forwards. They are ex- tremely delicate and numerous in the Da- syures and Phalaugers; they consist of thin larfina: of bone beautifully arranged on the convex surface of the os turbinatum, and placed vertically to that surface in the Po- toroo ; but the bone becomes very simple in the Kangaroo, Koala, and Wombat. The nasal cavity communicates freely with large maxillary sinuses, and finally terminates by wide apertures behind the bony palate. In the skull the nasal cavity communicates with the mouth, as before mentioned, by means of the various large vacuities in the palatal processes. Maxilla inferior.—The lower jaw of the Marsupials is a part of their osseous structure which claims more than ordinary attention in consequence of the discussions to which the fossil specimens of this bone discovered in the oolitic strata of Stonesfield have given rise. These specimens, which are well known to the English reader by the figures of them published in the Bridgewater Treatise of Dr. Buckland, and in the Elements of Geology of Mr. Lyell, were regarded by Cuvier as appertaining to the Marsupial series of Mammalia, and to be nearly allied to the genus Didelphis. This opinion of the great founder of Oryc- tological Science has been called in question by other naturalists, and has been more espe- cially opposed by Professor De Blainville, who conceives it to be more probable that they be- long to a genus of Saurian Reptiles than to the Didelphis or any genus of insectivorous Mammals. I have examined the two speci- mens in the possession of Dr. Buckland, the specimen formerly in the collection of Mr. Broderip and now in the British Museum, and that which is preserved in the Museum at York. The composition of the lower jaw, each ramus of which consists of one piece of bone, the convex condyle, broad and high coronoid pro- cess, and the structure and mode of implan- tation of the molar teeth, sufficiently attest the mammiferous character of these remains: the size, elevation, and form of the coronoid pro- cess of the lower jaw, the process continued from the angle of the ramus, with the tubercular crowns of the molar teeth, indicate the carni- vorous and insectivorous character of the spe- cies in question. In the presence of canines and the number of the incisors and molars, one of these small Insectivora (P/iasco/otlierium) approaches most nearly to the smaller species of the modern genus Didelphis; while in the structure of the molar teeth, and in the form of the coronoid process, it very closely re- sembles the Thylacinus. The number of the molars in the other genus (Thylacotherium) exceeds that of any known ferine Insectivore, placental or marsupial. We have seen, how- ever, that the marsupial Myrmecobim possesses nine molars on each side of both upper and lower jaws. Besides the osteological charac- ters above alluded to, there is a peculiarity in the lower jaw of the Marsupial animals, which was first indicated by Cuvier in the genus Didelphys, but which is not restricted to that genus. In the carnivorous Marsupials, as the Thylacine, the lower maxillary bone resembles in general form that of the corresponding spe- cies in the placental series, as the Dog: a similar transverse condyle is placed low down near the angle of the jaw, on a level with the series of molar teeth; a broad and strong coronoid process rises high above the condyle, and is slightly curved backwards; there is the same well-marked depression on the exterior of the ascending ramus for the firm implantation of the temporal muscle, and the lower boun- dary of this depression is formed by a strong ridge extended downwards and forwards from the outside of the condyle. But in the Dog and other placental Carnivora (the seals ex- cepted), a process, representing the angle of the jaw, extends directly backwards from the middle of the above ridge, which process gives precision and force to the articulation of the jaw, and increases the power by which the masseter acts upon the jaw. Now, although the same curved ridge of bone bounds the lower part of the external muscular depression of the ascending ramus in all the Marsupials, it does not in any of them send backwards, or in any other direction, a process correspond- ing to that just described in the Dog and other placental Carnivora. The angle of the jaw itself, in the Marsupials, is as if it were bent inwards in the form of a process encroaching in various shapes, and various degrees of deve- lopment in the different Marsupial genera upon the interspace of the rami of the lower jaw. In looking directly upon the lower margin of the jaw, we see, therefore, in place of the mar- gin of a vertical plate of bone, a more or less flattened triangular surface extended between the external ridge, and the internal process or inflected angle. This characteristic structure is t 2