973 PISCES. the fish, as may easily be proved by drying it with a napkin, after which operation it soon be- comes again covered with mucus, which issues from the openings of these pores. In the Tunny (Scomber tliynnus) there runs beneath the skin, following the entire length of the lateral line, an organ of a redder colour than the rest of the flesh, from which the little tubes forming the lateral line proceed, each tube receiving a nervous filament from the great lateral nerve. On raising the integument over this glandular organ a large vessel is seen, which, besides giving off arteries to the neigh- bouring muscles, furnishes an infinite number of branches to the glandular mass, beneath which, at nearly an inch from the surface, runs the lateral branch of the eighth pair of nerves, which in most other Fishes is situated immediately be- neath the skin. It is in the Raidae or Skates, however, that this system of vessels is most largely developed. In these broad-bodied fishes there is found upon the ventral aspect of the body a large canal which surrounds the pro- minent muzzle, forming very regular angles and windings, distributes its secretion by three or four branches on each side, and then winds upwards to terminate by different openings. There is, moreover, on each side at the external angle of the branchiae a kind of sac which is round and of a whitish colour, which receives a large branch from the fifth pair of nerves, from which proceed a number of long simple vessels which run in radiating fasciculi in four or five different directions, and open at remote points on the surface of the body. In Sharks the entire substance of the snout is made up of a dense cellulosity filled with a mucilaginous fluid, in which are imbedded fas- ciculi of tubes that open upon the surface of the skin by wide orifices. Besides these there are large vessels of similar character, one of which runs along the whole length of the animal on each side. Innumerable muciparous follicles contribute likewise to lubricate the skin, more especially in the vicinity of the snout. By far the greater number of genera in the class before us are covered with imbricated scales, which overlap each other like the tiles of a house; the external and visible portion of these scales is covered with a thin layer of der- mis, which soon dries on exposure to the air; their internal or concealed part is lodged in a cavity which is a kind of sacculus hollowed out in the dermis itself, or formed by one of its replications—an arrangement which at first sight appears very different from what exists in Lizards and Serpents, in which what is called a scale is only a production of the cutis covered by the epidermis, that on the outer surface assumes a greater consistency and thickness; but in the genus Scienus we have an inter- mediate arrangement between the imbricated scales of Fishes and what is met with in the scaly Reptilia. In the genus above mentioned the folds of the dermis are occupied by a cal- careous plate, constituting a true scale easily separable from the cutis which envelopes it. We have only therefore to suppose the texture of this layer of cutis to be thinner and more delicate, and we arrive at once at the scale of a fish, which seems in a fossa excavated in the cutis. In Fishes the scales thus implanted in the true skin were supposed by Cuvier to have no vascular connection with it, but to originate like a shell in the mantle of a mollusk by the gradual deposition of consecutive layers depo- sited from the dermis; and all their varieties of surface, their different sculpture, the ridges or spines with which they are sometimes armed, and which frequently render them very beautiful objects for the microscope, were generally thought to have a similar origin. Dr. Mandl* appears to have been the first who, by a microscopic examination of the inti- mate structure of the tissues which enter into the composition of the scales of Fishes, arrived at just conclusions relative to the mode of their formation, and proved that, so far from being- mere exudations of corneous matter, they are produced, like the teeth and osseous tissue, by a true internal growth and nutrition. The following is an abstract of the result of Dr.Mandl's researches upon this interesting sub- ject, in which he satisfactorily proves that the scales of Fishes consist of two layers, of which the inferior exhibits a structure analogous to that of fibro-cartilage, whilst the superior re- sembles corpuscular cartilage, and is evidently formed by the developement of primitive cells. Taking a well-developed scale, as that of a Carp, for an example, it is easy to perceive that its surface is marked with longitudinal lines arising from a common centre, and running to- wards the periphery of the scale, the number of which it is generally very easy to determine. The place towards which these lines converge is a space of variable dimensions, called by Dr. Mandl the focus. Between the longitudinal lines are seen, running parallel to the circum- ference of the scale, a very considerable number of concentric lines, which are crossed by the longitudinal ones at right angles; these are named " cellular lines," because they owe their origin to the developement of cells. Besides the parts above mentioned, many kinds of scales exhibit upon their surface, and upon one of their edges, spines of different forms, called by Dr. Mandl the teeth of the scale, a name which he founds upon the mode of de- velopement of these appendages. Around the longitudinal and transverse lines, more espe- cially near the point where the former converge towards the "focus," are numerous yellowish corpuscles of an elliptical shape, named the cor- puscles of the scale. Lastly, if the upper layer of the scale be raised or torn, an inferior stratum is displayed, of a fibrous character. These different struc- tures he then proceeds to describe seriatim. 1. The longitudinal lines, which, arising from the focus of the scale, run towards its periphery, play an important part in the ana- tomy of the tissue we are examining, and when highly magnified are found to be so many ca- nals exhibiting in the scales of different species * Rechercliessurla Structure internedes Ecailles des Poissons. Par le Dr. L. Mandl. Aim. des Sc. Nat. torn. xi.