NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 639 Fig. 368. A A, Transverse section of the spine at the situation of atloido-oceipital articulation. ( After Majendie.) c, the spinal cord. d, the dura mater and arachnoid membrane. s, s, the sub-arachnoid space, divided into an anterior and posterior portion by /, the ligamcntum denticulatum. I?, Section in the dorsal region. The same letters indicate similar parts as in A. m, the posterior median septum, n, the roots of the nerves. We can thus demonstrate the existence of a fluid, which during life and in a state of health occupies the sub-arachnoid cavity and main- tains the two layers of the arachnoid membrane in contact with each other. This fluid is designated by Majendie the cerebrospinal fluid. The first distinct recognition of this fluid in its proper locality is due to Cotunnius, who stated the results of his observations in his memoir " de Ischiade Nervosa," preserved in Sandifort's collection of dissertations. Cotun- nius was led to the discovery by remarking the great disproportion between the dimensions of the spinal canal and the bulk of its contents, so that a considerable interval exists between the internal surface of the former and the spinal cord, which must be filled by something ; and lie attributes its having been so completely overlooked by previous anatomists to the fa- Fig. 369. A Sections of the spine in the lumbar region. A, shews the section of the cord as well as of many roots of nerves descending to form the Cauda equina. B, shews the section of the cauda equina. In both these regions the sub-arachnoid space is large and uninterrupted by bands or septa. The fluid permeates between and surrounds the roots of the nerves. shion of opening the head before the spine, which favoured the escape of the fluid. This anatomist was also aware that the fluid was formed and contained in the sub-arachnoid cavity. It is, however, to M. Majendie that we are chiefly indebted for our present knowledge of the physiological history of this fluid. Majen- die's first researches were given to the public in his Journal de Physiologie for the year 1827, and he lias lately collected the results of his inquiries in a volume entitled " Recherches Physiologiques et Cliniques stir le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien," and published in 1842. The cerebral-spinal fluid is found wherever