873 PACHYDERM ATA. die orifices of the inferior and left superior cava, present, in addition to the inferior portion usually met with, the rudiment of a superior division of the valve, extending from the pos- terior aspect of the orifice of the superior cava. A similar arrangement is met with in the Por- cupine and other Rodents. Urinary organs.—In the young animals the kidneys are separated into several lobes by very deep sulci, but in the adults this tabulated appearance is in a great degree obliterated. In other respects the renal apparatus, ureters, and bladder have nothing peculiar in their structure or disposition. Generative organs (male).—In the structure of the external generative apparatus of the male Elephant, the principal feature worthy of remark is the existence of two special muscles destined to the retraction of the organ after its erection, an arrangement which is frequently rendered necessary in consequence of its enor- mous size in that animal, which is stated to be proportionately greater than in any other quad- ruped. These muscles arise from the anterior part of the os pubis on each side of the penis, and uniting at a little distance from their origin form a common tendon, which runs in a groove along the dorsum of the penis to be inserted into the glans. The action of these muscles will of course be to retract the member into its sheath after erection or after the discharge of urine, which requires a kind of semi-erection, precisely as is the case in the Horse. The other muscles connected with the generative apparatus agree exactly with those met with in the generality of quadrupeds, from which they only differ in size; these are the a^celerutores urinee and the tramversales perincsi. The corpora cavernosa, besides the mesial tendinous septum between them, are traversed by strong secondary septa derived from the external envelope, which is of great thickness in proportion to the enormous size of the organ. The verumontanum, the prostutes, Cowpers gland, the vasa defertntia, and the vesicals seminules occupy their usual positions, and have nothing remarkable in their structure or ar- rangement. The testes of the Elephant are not contained in any scrotal pouch or even lodged in the groins, as has been asserted by some authors, who have been deceived by the existence of large glandular masses situated in the inguinal regions ; but are deeply situated in the abdomen in close contact with the kidneys, to which they are attached by membranous prolongations resembling little omenta; consequently the vasa dejerentia, which are very large and tor- tuous, pass immediately to their destination in the commencement of the urethral canal, being closely accompanied by the ureters during the greater part of their course, and lying between those tubes and the rectum. As another example of the general structure of the male generative organs in Pachydermatous animals, we select those of the Boar. In this creature the glans penis is very long and nearly cylindrical except at the extremity, where it becomes of a prismatic shape ending in a point, which is suddenly bent upon itself. The body of the penis consists of only a single cavernous body, and just above the testes at about four inches from the insertion of the prepuce pre- sents a very singular arrangement, being bent twice upon itself at intervals of about an inch, so as to form at this place a close sigmoid curve; it is flattened for the greater part of its length, but becomes rounded and thinner in the neighbourhood of the glans. The testicles are very large, and the epididymis of each upwards of an inch in length. The vesiculae seminales are very extensive, occupying their usual position near the termination of the vasa deferentia. The prostates reach from the vesi- cular seminales as far as the ejaculator muscles, lying on each side of the urethra. Each pros- tate, moreover, is covered externally by a layer of muscular fibre, which is one or two lines in thickness. In the American Tapir, according to Pro- fessor Owen, the testes are elongated glands four inches in length, situated externally in a slightly indicated scrotum at the distance of six inches from the anus. The cremaster is remark- ably powerful, being composed of a strong fasciculus of fibres continued from the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle, of up- wards of one inch in breadth. The tunica vaginalis has, as usual, a free communication with the cavity of the abdomen. The penis, which is of great length, is not furnished with levator muscles, but is supported by a quantity of elastic cellular membrane, which extends from the abdominal muscles along the dorsum penis. Generative organs (female). —These present the arrangement usually met with in quadrupeds furnished with a cornuted uterus, the relative size of the uterine apparatus varying in propor- tion to the fecundity of each genus. The only description of the female generative organs of the Elephant with which we are ac- quainted is the following, given by M. Perrault of the parts of one dissected by him in ,'the menagerie of Versailles, many points of which are sufficiently remarkable. That anatomist describes the vulva as being placed almost in the middle of the belly, at a distance of more than two feet from the place where it is usually situated in other animals. The clitoris extended all along this space beneath the vagina and was two inches in diameter, so that, although covered by the skin of the abdomen, it was so apparent as to have been always mistaken for a penis, and the animal was in fact considered to be a male until dis- section revealed the mistake. The vagina extended backward from the vulva to the pubis in a contrary direction to that which it takes in other animals, and at the pubis it formed an angle about the middle of its length, so that the second half ran forward in the usual manner: its lining membrane was very smooth. The edges of the orifice of the womb extended into the vagina for the length of two inches, the neck of the uterus being, as it were, closed by two sigmoid valves, so dis- posed, according to Mons. Perrault, to prevent