MARSUPIALIA. 261 the preceding Bandicoots the canines are long and well developed, but the true molars have the grinding surface worn down flat in the full- grown specimens which I have had the oppor-r tunity of examining. The marsupial pouch in the Bandicoots, at least in the full-grown females of Per. nasuta, Per. obesula, and Per. Lagotis, has its orifice directed downwards or towards the cloaca, con- trariwise to its ordinary disposition in the Marsupials : this direction of the pouch evi- dently relates to the procumbent position of the trunk when supported on the short fore and long hind legs. In the stomach and in- testines of a Perameles obesula I found only the remains of insects ; and in the examination of the alimentary canal of a Per. nasuta, Dr. Grant obtained the same results. Nevertheless the Perameles Lagotis, lately living at the Zoo- logical Gardens, refused meat and meal-worms, and subsisted on vegetable food exclusively. Genus CHCEROPUS. The singular animal on which Mr. Ogilby has founded this genus, is briefly noticed and figured in Major Mitchell's Australia, (Vol. ii. pi. 38, p. 131,) and the individual described is preserved in the Colonial Museum, at Syd- ney, N. S. Wales, (No. 35 of Mr. Geo. Ben- nett's Catalogue.) It would appear that the two outer toes of the fore foot, which are always very small in the true Bandicoots, are entirely deficient in the Clueropus, unless some rudiments should exist beneath the skin ; at all events only two toes are apparent externally; but they are so developed and armed as to be serviceable for burrowing or progression. The inner toe is wanting on the hind-foot. Dental formula : T ■ 4—4 1—1 Incisors, : canines, : pra> ' 3—3' 1—1 1 molars, - - ; molars, -—-: - - 46. 3—3 4—4 Al! the teeth are of small size ; the canines resemble the spurious molars in size and shape, and these are separated by intervals, as in Myr- mecobius. The marsupium opens downwards in the Chatropus, as in the true Bandicoots. The species described has no tail. The genus would seem by its dentition to rank between Myrmecobius and Perameles. Its digital cha- racters are anomalous and unique among the Marsupialia, but are evidently a degeneration from the Saltatorial or Bandicoot type. y. Scansoria. Genus DIDELPHYS, (Opossums,7?g. 85.) These Marsupials are now exclusively con- fined to the American Continents, although the fossil remains of a small species attest their former existence in Europe contemporaneously with the Palaothere, Anoplothere, and other extinct Pachyderms, whose fossil remains cha- racterize the Eocene strata of the Paris Basin. The dental formula of the Genus Didelphys is,— r • 5—5 1—1 Incisors, ; canines, ; pra- 4—4 1 — 1 1 molars, -—- ; molars, .'. ^ : = 50. 3—3 4—4 The Opossums resemble in their dentition the Fig. 85. Didelphys Virginiana. Bandicoots more than the Dasyures : but they closely resemble the latter in the tuberculous structure of the molars. The two middle in- cisors of the upper jaw are more produced than the others, from which they are also separated by a short interspace. The canines are well de- veloped ; the upper being always stronger than the lower. The false molars are simply conical, but are more compressed than in the Carnivo- rous Marsupials. The posterior false molar is the largest in the upper jaw ; the middle one is the largest in the lower jaw ; the anterior one is the smallest in both jaws. The true molars are beset with sharp cusps which wear down into tubercles as the animal advances in age. The crowns of the upper molars present a triangular horizontal section : the base of the triangle is turned forward in the posterior mo- lar ; and obliquely inwards and outwards in the rest. In the lower jaw the true molars are narrower and of more equal size than in the upper jaw: there are five tubercles on each, four placed in two transverse pairs, the anterior being the highest, and a fifth forming the anterior and internal angle of the tooth : the anterior and external angle seems as if it were vertically cut off'. The smaller species of Didelphis, which are the most numerous, fulfil in South America the office of the insectivorous Shrews of the old Continent. Their external resemblance is so close that some have been described as spe- cies of Sorex, but. no true representative of this placental genus has hitherto been disco- vered in South America. The larger Opossums resemble in their habits, as in their dentition, the Carnivorous Dasyures, and prey upon the smaller quadrupeds and birds, but they have a more omnivorous diet, feeding on reptiles and insects and even fruit. One large species, (Did. cancrivora) prowls about the sea- shore and lives, as its name implies, on crabs and other crustaceous animals. Another spe- cies, the Yapock, frequents the fresh waters, and preys almost exclusively on fish. It has all the habits of an Otter; and, in consequence of the modifications of its feet, forms the type of the sub-genus Cheironectes, 111. Besides being web-footed the anterior extremities pre- sent an unusual development of the pisiform bone, which supports a fold of the skin, like a sixth digit; it has indeed been described, as such, by M. Temminck : this process lias not, of course, any nail. The dentition of the Vapock resembles that of the ordinary Didelphis. All the Opossums have the inner digit of the hind foot converted by its position and development