PAR VAGUM. 887 branches of the superior laryngeal of the opposite side, and with the arytenoid branch of the recurrent; and occasionally a filament perforates the arytenoid cartilage to reach the inner surface of the larynx. Vascular and cardiac branches.—The vagus in its passage along the neck sends off directly from its trunk several filaments, which throw themselves into the arterial nervous plexuses sur- rounding the carotid arteries and their branches; and also others which pass downwards and join themselves, either directly or indirectly, to the cardiac plexus. These branches are very variable in their number, size, and origin, so that it is impossible to give any description of them which will be found generally applicable, and they commonly differ on the two sides in the same individual. Vascular branches (rami vasculares).— Several small branches arise from the trunk of the vagus between the origin of the superior laryngeal nerve, and about a line or so below the level of the bifurcation of the common carotid, and chiefly pass upon the carotid arteries and then branches. Valentin* has divided these into— 1. Rami carotid, consisting of two or three larger and some smaller twigs, coming off from the vagus near the origin of the superior laryngeal and also from the commencement of the superior laryngeal. They run inwards and forwards upon the internal carotid. 2. Ramus ad divisionem arteria carotidis is principally distributed upon the common carotid at its bifurcation. 3. Rami vasculares postcriores et interni are generally three in number, come from that part of the trunk of the vagus on a level with the bifurcation of the common carotid, and run principally, as their name implies, to the nervous plexus on the posterior and inner part of the large neighbouring arteries. 4. Rami vasculares anteriores et interni spring from the trunk of the vagus a very little below the origin of the last, run to the outer side of the common carotid, and assist with some of the other branches of the vagus and sympathetic in forming a nervous network on the outer and anterior side of this artery, while one or more twigs proceed downwards to join the superior cardiac nerve of the vagus. Cardiac nerves.—Two or three cardiac bran- ches come from the inner side of the vagus at some little distance from each other; the upper of these generally arises a little below the bifur- cation of the common carotid. These bran- ches proceed downwards and inwards, commu- nicate freely with each other, send some filaments upon the surface of the common carotid artery, anastomose freely with the cardiac branches of the superior and middle cervical ganglia of the sympathetic and with the recurrent, pass chiefly in front of the large arteries at the root of the neck, and terminate in the upper part of the cardiac plexus of nerves. Frequently, more especially when the upper cardiac branches are small, or when some of them are want- * Op. cit. ing, we find a pretty large cardiac branch arising from the vagus about the upper part of the lower third of the neck, and passing down- wards, on the right side in front of the subcla- vian, on the left in front of the arch of the aorta, it throws itself into the upper part of the cardiac plexus. Two or more branches also leave the trunk of the vagus as it passes the subclavian on the right and the arch of the aorta on the left side, pass inwards and throw them- selves partly into the cardiac plexus and partly into the anterior bronchial plexus. Inferior laryngeal or recurrent branch.— (Ramus laryngeus inferior seu recurrens.) On the right side the recurrent arises from the vagus as it is passing over the anterior surface of the subclavian artery, while on the left side it is sent off from the vagus, generally from its inner side, as it is crossing the anterior surface of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. On the right side it hooks round the subclavian on the inner side of the scalenus anticus muscle, and passing upwards and inwards, first below the subclavian artery and then below the com- mon carotid, it reaches the right side of the trachea. On the left side it hooks round the arch of the aorta and obliterated ductus arte- riosus, and passing upwards and inwards below the aorta, the left subclavian at its origin, and the left common carotid, it reaches the left side of the trachea. The recurrent soon after its origin generally receives one or two additional twigs from the trunk of the vagus. Immedi- ately after it leaves the trunk of the vagus, it anastomoses freely with branches of the sympa- thetic, chiefly with the internal branches of the two inferior cervical and first dorsal ganglia of the sympathetic,—and while the right sends some twigs upon the outer surface of the sub- clavian artery, the left sends some upon the surface of the aorta. Ic also throws several twigs into the cardiac, tracheal, and bronchial plexuses. The left sends some twigs to the tracheal plexus, while the corresponding twigs of the right side come from the trunk of the vagus. The two recurrents then proceed up- wards along the sides of the trachea towards the larynx,—the left resting upon the anterior surface of the oesophagus,—and are both co- vered by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. In this part of the course of the re- current it generally receives communicating twigs from the cardiac branches of the superior and middle cervical and sympathetic ganglia, and it also anastomoses with some of the upper cervical cardiac branches of the vagus. It also sends several twigs to the oesophagus and tra- chea, ((esophageal and tracheal twigs of the recurrent,) some of which perforate the fibrous membrane between the cartilaginous rings of the trachea, and reach its mucous surface, while others are distributed among the muscular fibres which complete the cartilaginous rings behind. As it approaches the larynx it sends a twig upwards and forwards, which anastomoses with a descending twig of the external branch of the superior laryngeal ; and it gives some filaments to the thyroid body, to the mucous membrane of the lower part of