823 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 1. The spinal column, the centre of the whole fabric enclosing in a canal formed by arches surmounting its dorsal aspect the medulla spi- nalis or the axis of the spinal portion of the nervous system. 2. The cranium, essentially composed of vertebra; but here, in consequence of the enlarged size of that part of the cerebrospinal axis of the nervous apparatus placed within them, exaggerated in size and modified in form. 3. Of a frame of bones appended to the anterior partof the cranium for the lodgement of the organs of those senses that are immediately in connection with the encephalon, forming what, taken collectively, is called the face. 4. Of a hyo-branchial apparatus forming the framework of the throat, and supporting the organs connected with aquatic respiration. These last of course are only present in animals breathing by gills, and can only be expected to exist in a state of complete developement in the class of Fishes. 5. Of the thoracic apparatus, composed of two sets of ribs—a dorsal and a sternal series— and of the sternum, which itself, when fully developed, is made up of numerous bones. 6. Of a pair of anterior extremities, divisible into shoulder, arm, forearm, carpus, meta- carpus, and digits. 7. Of a pair of -posterior extremities, con- structed after the same model as the last, and presenting corresponding parts, to which the names pelvis, thigh, leg, tarsus, metatarsus, and toes are respectively appropriated. The most complete skeleton with which we are acquainted among existing Vertebrata is that of the Crocodiles, the study of which cannot be too strongly recommended to the comparative osteologist, as in these creatures all its parts remain permanently in a medium condition, so that the arbitrary divisions of the skeleton adopted by the human anatomist are at once recognisable, although we find others which in Man have no existence. Thespineisdivisibleinto a cervical region (Jig. 432, a, b) interposed be- tween the cranium and the thorax, although ribs (o) are appended even to the cervical vertebra?. The dorsal region (b, c) supporting the thoracic ribs, the lumbar (c, d), the sacrum (e), and the caudal (f) are distinguishable for the same rea- sons as in the human subject, notwithstanding that the caudal portion resembles anything rather than the human os cocci/gis; for here, so far from its being formed merely of the rudiments of the bodies of almost obliterated vertebrae, the processes form very powerful levers, and of these there are some developed inferiorly (g) of which no vestiges exist in the human skeleton. The bones of the cranium and face are far more numerous than in the skull of our own species, as we shall explain more minutely hereafter: see Jig. 441, where they are delineated on an enlarged scale. The thorax consists of dorsal ribs (/) and of sternal ribs (m), which are equally important elements of the skeleton and of the sternum, here situated much as in the human subject. Behind the sternum, moreover, and extending from it quite to the pubic bones, there is in the Crocodile a set of ventral ribs (/c) to which in Man there is nothing analogous, except, perhaps, the tendinous intersections still lingering in the recti muscles of the abdomen. The shoulder (/>, q) consists, like the pelvis (A, £), of three distinct and important bones, while all the pieces entering into the formation of the extremities very nearly resemble what is met with in the human subject. Having premised thus much, we may now, without further preface, plunge more deeply into our subject, and, taking in detail all the elements that are recognised by modern anato- mists as belonging to the osseous system, exa- mine them separately in the various aspects under which they present themselves in the different classes composing the Vrertebrate por- tion of animated nature. Spinal column.—Commencing our analysis of the skeleton by an examination of the spine as being the most essential portion of the osseous system, the primary or central part to which all others that are met with in the different classes of Vertebrata may or may not be superadded in accordance with the conditions under which they are appointed to exist, we shall soon per- ceive that both in texture and composition it offers very important varieties. In the Myxine and Lampreys it is a simple stem of extremely soft cartilage, almost gelatinous in its con- sistence, which traverses the axis of the body, presenting, when superficially examined, no appearance of division into separate vertebraj; and it is not uninteresting to observe how, advancing from this simplest form of spine through various tribes of Fishes, its separation into distinct pieces is gradually effected. But even in the Lamprey, on strict examination, there are perceptible in the arches that embrace the spinal canal and on the surface of the soft cord that represents the bodies of the vertebrae, slight indications of an incipent division into ver- tebral pieces, which are represented by slender rings of ossific matter that encircle at intervals the soft cartilage upon which they sensibly encroach. In a more advanced form of the spine, these ossified rings are considerably increased in their relative proportions, and en- croach furtherand further upon the cartilaginous stem until they penetrate even to its centre, and are then no longer dubiously the representatives of the bodies of so many vertebrae. In the generality of Fishes, indeed, the central part remains unossified, so that a cartilaginous axis traverses the vertebral column from end to end. At last even this is obliterated, and the vertebral centres are completely formed. But even before the bodies of the vertebrae are thus perfected, the laminae destined to enclose and protect the spinal cord are fully formed by the deposition of osseous matter, as may be readily seen in the Sharks and Kays and many other cartilaginous Fishes, in which, although the complete consolidation of the body has not yet been achieved, the spinous and other processes destined to form the fulcra upon which muscular action is to be exerted are so ossified as to afford the needful solidity and strength. In these races of Fishes, indeed, the condition of the spinal column is not a little remarkable, inasmuch as in the Skates the anterior vertebrae are so consolidated by an