PISCES. 959 prinidae, remain for a long time only attached by suture to the bodies of the vertebrae, from which they are easily distinguished. In certain Fishes, as, for example, in Merlus, the transverse processes are very large and give attachment to the swimming bladder. Some- times the ribs are suspended from the trans- verse processes, or sometimes they are derived immediately from the bodies of the vertebrae. In this respect there are great varieties. In those vertebrae that are situated behind the abdominal cavity there is an inferior fora- men for the lodgement of the great blood- vessels of the trunk bounded by inferior spinal laminae (hamapophyses), and, like the superior, generally supporting long spinous processes, (fig- 493, 5,) so that the vertebrae seem to consist of similar parts, both above and below the body. These inferior arches of the caudal vertebrae are considered by Cuvier as being formed by the inordinate developement of the transverse processes, which he describes as here becom- ing directed downwards and united to each other, so as to form the inferior ring ; and, certainly, in the generality of Fishes, by tra- cing the apparently gradual conversion of the abdominal into the caudal vertebra1, such is the conclusion at which the comparative anato- mist would naturally arrive. In many Fishes, however, as, for example, in the Muraenidae, these inferior arches with their appropriate spines are in the caudal region co-existent with distinctly developed transverse processes, evi- dently shewing that they must be regarded as being totally different elements of the skeleton, namely, the haemapophyses. (See Osseous Svstem.) The inferior or haemapophysial elements, like the superior arches, have in many instances oblique processes developed from them, which in some cases are very large and branched, so as to form a kind of interlacement around the vascular canal. This is especially observable in certain Tunnies. As the vertebrae approach the tail, their pro- cesses are gradually shortened, and the verte- bral canal becomes narrowed or obliterated, (fig. 493, 8,) and at length the terminal vertebrae have their apophyses consolidated with each other and with the interspinous bones, so as to form in some Fishes, as the Perch, a vertical triangular plate, to the posterior margin of which are articulated the rays of the caudal fin (9). In Fishes with long and pointed tails like the Eels this disposition is wanting; but in other races, such as the Pike, the real composition of this part of the skeleton is easily recognisable. Ribs and sternum.—The ribs of Fishes have nothing to do with respiration, merely serving to support the muscular parietes of the body ; they consist of the dorsal portion only, which is articulated by a single head, either to the transverse processes or to the bodies of the vertebrae themselves. Frequently they give off long bony processes, which penetrate among the muscles; and sometimes also similar pro- cesses are attached above the ribs to the bodies of the vertebrae themselves, so that the flesh of some Fishes appears full of little bones as fine as hairs. The ribs vary extremely in different genera. Sometimes they are round and slen- der, sometimes compressed and falciform; occasionally they seem to surround the whole abdomen, and in many species are quite rudi- mentary or altogether wanting. The sternum is entirely deficient in most Fishes; sometimes, however, it does exist, as in Clupea, Vomer, &c.; in such cases it consists of a longitudinal series of impair bones, differently shaped in different genera, to the sides of which the ribs are attached inferiorly. Cranium.—The cranium of osseous Fishes, when all its parts are completely developed, is made up of no fewer than twenty-six bones, six. of which are azygos, viz. the basilar, the principal sphenoid, the anterior sphenoid, the vomer, the ethmoid, and the interparietal or superior occi- pital ; and twenty are in pairs, namely, the frontal, the anterior frontal, the posterior fron- tal, the parietal, the mastoid, the external occi- pital, the lateral occipital, the petrous, the great alar and the lesser alar bones; but as these have all been described and figured in a pre- ceding article, and their homologies with the cranial bones of the other vertebrate classes fully discussed, (vide Osseous System, Comp. Anat., vol. iii. p. 826,) it would be superfluous to dwell upon them more at length in this place. Bones of the face.—The bones of the facial apparatus have likewise been pointed out and figured in the article above referred to. They consist, when the series is complete, of the fol- lowing pieces, which, seeing the extremely vari- ous forms of the face in this class of animals, present innumerable varieties as regards their developement and relative importance, notwith- standing that their general arrangement is tole- rably persistent throughout the class. The maxillary (fig. 436, 18, vol. iii. p. 826) and the intermaxillary (fig. 436, 17) form the anterior boundaries of the face and circumscribe the anterior and lateral limits of the mouth : the latter, however, is in Fishes the most important bone of the two, and is most commonly armed with teeth, while the former is very generally destitute of dental organs, and being imbedded in the fleshy substance of the upper lip, has been called by some authors the labial bone or os mystacis. It is indeed upon the relative shape and size of the intermaxillary bone that the form of the upper jaw of Fishes principally de- pends, and in some cases, as for example in the Siuord-fish (Xiphias), Lepidosteus, &c. these bones are enormously prolonged anteriorly, so as to form an elongated beak or powerful ros- trum which constitutes a formidable offensive weapon. The face of Fishes, properly so called, is made up of several bony pieces very variable both in their size and number, which have been named the preenusal (fig. 436, 20,) the subor- bital (fig. 436,g,g,g,') and the supra-temporal bones ; all of these, however, with the exception perhaps of the praenasal, belong to the exoske- leton (vide vol. iii. p. 845.) In the hard-cheeked Fishes (" joues cuirassees" of Cuvier) these osseous plates are enormously developed, and indeed form a kind of bony mask enclosing all