MONOTREMATA. Fig. 187. Thoracic and abdominal viscera, Ornitkorhynchus. ( Meckel.) Echidna is unprovided with teeth; but the palate is armed with six or seven transverse rows of strong, sharp, but short retroverted spines. The tongue is long and slender as in the true Anteaters ; its dorsum is broad, flat, callous, and beset with hard papillae, and the insects are doubtless crushed and lacerated between these and the pa'atal spines. As, how- ever, the food undergoes less comminution in the mouth of this Monotreme than in that of the Ornithorhynchus, the pharynx and oesophagus are wider, and a dense epithelium lines the inner surface of the latter tube, and is conti- nued over the capacious stomach to the py- lorus, near which orifice it is developed into numerous horny and sharp papillae. The sub- jacent mucous membrane is smooth; the tunics of ihe stomach are very thin, except at the pylorus, which forms a prominent protuberance in the duodenum. The intestinal canal of the Echidna is seven times the length of the body; the mucous membrane is not raised into val- vular folds; a small vermiform and glandular coecum divides the small from the large intes- tines ; the rectum terminates as in the Ornitho- rhynchus. Salivary glands.—There appears to be no parotid gland in the Echidna, and it is doubt- ful whether the thin flat stratum of glandular substance (Jig. 180, E), which extends from the meatus auditorius to the check-pouch in the Ornithorhynchus, can be so regarded. The submaxillary gland (Jig. 180, jD) is a mode- rately-sized, oval, compact body, situated be- hind and below the meatus auditorius; it mea- sured five lines in the long diameter and four in the short diameter. The duct is very small, scarcely admitting an absorbent injecting pipe; it passes under the omo-mylo-hyoideus(10),and then, contrary to the usual mode, begins to be disposed in a series of about twelve close trans- verse folds, and terminates by a single aperture at the fraenum linguae. The submaxillary gland (Jig. 188, b) is of unusual dimensions in the Echidna, in which it extends from the meatus auditorius along the neck, and upon the anterior part of the thorax : it is a broad, flat, oblong lobulated body, nar- rowest at its anterior extremity, from which the wide duct emerges. When the duct has reached the interspace of the lower jaw it dilates, and then divides into eight or ten undulating branches, which subdivide and ultimately ter- minate by numerous orifices upon the mem- branous floor of the mouth. This modification, which escaped the observation of Cuvier and M. Duvernoy, appears to be unique. The large size of the glands and the mode in which the secretion is spread over the floor of the mouth, relate to the lubrification of the long, slender, and extensible tongue, and to its fit- ness as an instrument for obtaining the insect food of the Echidna. The liver (Jig. 187, r, r) closely retains the mammalian type of the organ in both Mono- tremes. Four lobes may be distinguished in the Echidna: the principal or cystic lobe re- ceives the suspensory ligament in a fissure; the large gall-bladder is placed a little to the right; the left lobe occupies the left hypochondrium ; the Spigelian lobule is of moderate size; it is an appendage of the right lobe. The liver pre- sents nearly the same form in the Ornithorhyn- chus, which has likewise a large gall-bladder (fig- 187, s). There are three hepatic ducts in the Echidna which join the cystic, and the common canal terminates in the duodenum rather more than an inch from the pylorus. In the Ornithorhyn- chus the two chief hepatic ducts join the cystic near the neck of the bladder; the third hepatic joins a more distant part of the cystic; the ductus choledochus receives the pancreatic duct about nine lines before its termination, as in the Marsupials, where its coats are thickened and glandular, and opens into the duodenum about eight lines from the pylorus. The pancreas in the Ornithorhynchus is a thin lobulated gland bent upon itself; the left and larger portion descends by the side of the left