PERINEUM. 928 towards the anus; the density of the triangular ligament of the urethra impedes its passage into the pelvis; whilst the loose connection between the superficial fascia and the subjacent structures in front, the remarkable laxity of the dartos, and the continuity of this latter with the superficial fascia of the perineum on the one hand, and with that of the abdomen on the other, are so many circumstances inviting the stream to the scrotum, the penis, and the walls of the abdomen. The promptest treat- ment is demanded to remedy mischief such as has been described. A free division of the integuments and fascia in the perineum over the seat of rupture, for the purpose of giving the urine vent and putting a stop to further effusion, becomes indispensable, and without this measure all others must be unavailing. The laxity of the superficial fascia as it approaches the scrotum should deter the sur- geon from commencing his cutaneous incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy too far forwards, lest urinary infiltration should ensue; and the density of the same structure in other situations indicates an early incision for the release of matter imprisoned beneath it. For a description of the posterior or anal division of the perineum, including the ischio- rectal fossae and the neighbouring fibrous mem- branes, the reader is now referred to the arti- cle Anus, where all the structures connected with the lower extremity of the rectum are described in detail. It should be borne in mind, however, that some branches of arteries (the inferior or external hemorrhoidal) pass across the ischio-rectal fossae, entangled in the fat which occupies those excavations. The inferior hemorrhoidal vessels are usually three in number at each side; they derive their origin from the internal pudic artery, as it lies be- neath the obturator fascia; their destination is the lower extremity of the gut and its appen- dages, and one of them (the most anterior) gains the front of the intestine to anastomose with a similar vessel from the opposite side, and with branches of the transversalis perinei also. The inferior hemorrhoidal vessels are remarkably tortuous and rather uncertain in their course ; the anterior of them is sometimes divided in the lateral or bilateral operations of lithotomy, a circumstance which has led to this cursory notice of their anatomy. When the superficial fascia has been dis- placed, many new parts become apparent in the genito-urinary division of the perineum; a quantity of loose adeps and also a very thin glistening fibrous expansion which adheres closely to the subjacent muscles and obscures the dissection, must, however, be carefully re- moved before the deeper structures are satis- factorily displayed. The central tendinous point of the perineum, the superficial perineal bloodvessels and nerves, the transversalis peri- nei artery with its accompanying veins and nerves at each side respectively, the urethra itself, still however obscured by the accelera- tores urinae muscles, the crura penis, each partly enveloped by the erector penis muscle, the transversi perinei muscles, and two small trian- gular spaces bounded by muscles and placed one at either side of the urethral prominence, are the principal objects which come into view. The central tendinous point of the perineum is situated in the middle line, equidistant from the anus and the bulb of the urethra. It is a common point of insertion to many muscles; thus the superficial sphincter of the anus can be fairly traced to this spot, and so can many fibres of the acceleratores urinae, the transversi perinei, the levatores ani, and Wilson's mus- cles. Here muscular fibres from opposite sides of the perineum become blended with each other; here, too, those from before and those from behind are intermixed, and some even descend from within the pelvis to identify themselves in this place with others which are subcutaneous. The superficial perineal artery (the perineal artery of some anatomists), though not a large vessel, yet takes a lengthened and very regular course. Its origin is from the internal pudic artery at some little distance behind the trans- versus perinei muscle, whilst the parent trunk is still under cover of the obturator fascia; it immediately pierces that membrane, and like- wise very generally passes through the base of the triangular ligament of the urethra. The artery next curves around the transversus peri- nei muscle lying on its superficial surface and running across its fibres. The vessel then in- clines forwards and inwards through the trian- gular interval between the accelerator urinae and the erector penis muscles, until at length it reaches the scrotum, and assuming the name of " the arteria septi," it terminates in a free anastomosis with the other arteries supplying the envelopes of the testicles. The superficial perineal artery lies deep posteriorly, but its position becomes very superficial as it ap- proaches the scrotum; its branches are distri- buted freely to the muscles and integuments, and they likewise anastomose internally with branches from the corresponding artery of the opposite side, and externally with superficial branches from the thigh. Two veins accom- pany this artery; they are frequently dilated and tortuous in front, and in certain diseased conditions of the testicle or its coverings they sometimes form a complicated net-work in the scrotum. The inferior or superficial division of the pudic nerve (" the perineal nerve" of many authors) follows pretty nearly the course of these vessels; like the artery, it is destined for the scrotum, where it terminates by several long and very fine branches, after supplying in its progress numerous twigs to the transversus perinei, accelerator urinae, levator ani, and erector penis muscles. One very remarkable branch of this nerve (the bulbo-urethral of Cruveilhier) may be traced fairly into the bulb, whilst another (the external perineal of the same anatomist) runs superficially along the lateral part of the region, reinforcing and anastomosing with the perineal cutaneous branch of the lesser sciatic nerve.