PISCES. 971 straight, parallel, and fleshy, passing from the superior margin of the upper jaw to the infe- rior margin of the lower. The third presents a very singular arrange- ment, having its fibres interlaced in a very re- markable manner. These, however, may be divided into three principal masses, two of which are anterior and one posterior.* One of these masses is situated in front of and above the upper jaw near the commissure. It is attached to its superior margin, and runs obliquely to join the external edge of the second mass. This latter occupies nearly the same position relative to the lower jaw; it passes be- hind the other and is conjoined with it exter- nally. The third or posterior mass is derived from the end of the upper jaw, and joins the hinder margin of the second. All these fibres so singularly interlaced co-operate in holding the mouth closely shut when the Skate has seized its prey. Lastly, there are two very long muscles de- rived from the spine, which pass between the palate and the cranium to be inserted into the upper jaw. These bring the mass of the mouth forward again after it has been retracted by the broad oblong azygos muscle above described, which passes between the pectoral zone and the inferior maxilla. Fig. 507. Head of Lamprey, after Carus, shewing muscles. a. b, c, cartilages of the mouth ; d, e, f, external muscles inserted into ditto ; g, h, muscles de- rived from the hyoid apparatus. In Sharks the lateral muscles of the body and fins resemble those of the osseous Fishes. Their jaws, however, constructed after the same principle as in the Skate, are equally moveable, and their muscles almost similar; only here, as their mouth is situated much nearer the anterior extremity of the skull, the two great muscles coming from the spine to the upper jaw are wanting. Myology of Shark (Squalus glaucus). After Cants, a, a, a, cranium ; b, rostrum ; c, olfactory organ; d, eye-ball; e, muscles of eye ; /, upper-lip ; h, j, teeth ; k, lower surface of skull ; I, m, muscular masses which close the mouth, resembling those of the Skate described above; 17, broad muscle passing from upper to lower jaw; p, depressors of lower jaw, as in the Skate ; q, q, q, entrances to the gill-chambers. surface, as the osseous skeleton protects and In the Lampreys (Telromy'zonida ) the oral sucker is moved by slips derived from the ante- rior temination of the great lateral muscle (fig. 507, f) as well as by a set of very strong fasciculi derived from the hyoid apparatus, which, by retracting the interior of the disc, cause the adhesion of the sucker, and move the different parts of the dental apparatus described in a preceding page, (g, h, in.) The action of these will, however, be better understood by inspecting the figures than by any detailed description. Tegnmcntary system.—The essential character of the skin, says Agassiz,f is that it completely envelopes an animal, and thus forms a kind of external skeleton which protects it over its whole * Cuvier, Lemons d'Anatomic Comparee. + Agassiz, Recherches sur les Poissons Fossiles, 4to. 1834. supports the internal viscera. In the invertebrate races of animals there are no other solid parts except those which are produced by or con- nected with the tegumentary system, but which nevertheless can by no means be compared with the osseous system of the Vertebrata, which is quite peculiar to the latter, and has no analogy whatever with the solid framework of the inferior classes. The skin, moreover, (observes the same illustrious author,) is not exclusively limited to the external surface of the body, but pene- trates into and invests the internal cavities, on the inner surfaces of which it likewise pro- duces solid structures of various kinds to which different offices are assigned, as, for example, the teeth and all the corneous pieces which in many classes are met with upon the lining membrane of the digestive tube. It