MICROSCOPE. 350 Fig. 167. Superior Compound Microscope. A A, base; B, pillar with joint at the top; C C, stem, containing square tube D, which is moved by a fine screw turned by the nut E ; within this tube slides the square bar F, carrying the arm G ; into this is screwed the tube H, within which the compound body slides; I, the objective; K, stage-fork ; L, sprung tube, tightened by the nut N, carrying the frame of the mirror M. attributed to the fact, that, when the instrument is much inclined, the hinder foot receives nearly the whole weight, and the portions of the instrument on the two sides so nearly counterpoise each other, that a very slight cause will communicate an oscillation to the whole. We can strongly recommend to our readers a basis of this kind, having not only our own ex- perience of its benefit to guide us, but that of friends whom we have induced to adopt it, and whose previously unsteady microscopes have been greatly improved thereby. It certainly does not possess the merit of portability ; but this, in a large microscope for observations of the highest kind, ought not to be a considera- tion. Nothing is easier than to have a separate tripod of the ordinary kind for use when occa- sion requires. To such a tripod Mr. Ross* has recently applied a method of construction, which he states to be very effectual in obviating vibration; but we cannot speak from experi- ence in regard to its use; and being well satis- fied with our own much simpler and less ex- pensive plan, we do not see the necessity for it. The pillar is just an inch in diameter, and consists of a stout brass tube loaded with lead. On the firmness of this part much depends. It is 8 inches from the foot to the centre of the joint. The middle piece of the joint is Jth of an inch thick; and to this is attached a tubular clamp with a binding screw, which closely em- braces the stem. This mode of construction we adopted in accordance with the recommen- dation of Dr. Goring and Mr. Pritchard ;* but we are doubtful if its advantages counterba- lance the disadvantage of a certain want of fixity which it imparts to the remainder of the instrument supported by it. The stem is a thick brass tube of about f^ths of an inch in diameter; to the upper part of it is firmly at- tached the stage, which is composed of a simple plate of well-hammered brass, \ of an inch thick ; its length from the front of the pillar is 4 inches, its breadth 2g inches, and the diame- ter of its aperture lj inch. The only fitting constantly attached to it is the fork, of which the two wires work through sockets projecting from the under side of the stage. This fork is made sufficiently thin to possess a certain de- gree of elasticity; and, being firmly held in any position by the friction of its wires, it is a very useful means of holding aquatic boxes, slips of glass, large sliders, &c, affording, by its wide opening, (2 inches,) considerable free- dom of movement to the object. The utility of this fork will depend upon the goodness of its construction in the first instance; it ought to work easily, and yet hold tightly in any po- sition. The sockets through which its wires pass should be sprung, so that they may be tightened at pleasure, should they work loose. The stage has a slight rim projecting into the lower side of the aperture, in order to hold various fittings which are attached to it by a bayonet catch, and holes are drilled in various parts of the stage (the massiveness of which prevents its being weakened thereby) for the reception of the pins of the forceps, condenser, &c. The stem carries a sprung tube, to which the minor is attached, in the manner to be presently noticed. From the top of the stem projects a square tube, a little more than f5ths of an inch each way, the upper end of which is sprung, so as to grasp with sufficient firmness a solid bar of half an inch square, which slides up and down within it. The upper end of this bar carries the arm to which the body of the microscope is attached; on the accuracy of its formation the truth of its movement will of course depend ; but if well made, a rise and fall of 3g inches may be allowed to it, without the slightest alteration in the position of the axis of the body which it carries. The advantages of this sliding move- ment over the rack commonly employed for the coarse adjustment we regard as considerable; very much time is saved ; for the arm may be shifted from its greatest to its least distance from the stage, in scarcely more time than is * Microscopic Journal, No. 2. * Op. cit.