MARSUPIALIA. 303 a fold of peritoneum continued from the con- vexity of its depending curve. I found the ccecum in this species disposed in a spiral curve in the left lumbar region: the colon ascended a little way in front of the stomach, receiving a branch of the superior mesenteric artery, and was then continued straight down to the anus; thus we are again reminded of the oviparous character by the shortness of the large intestine. In the Pet. taguanoides the duodenum is tied down to the iliac region, as in the Da- syure; the caecum is four inches long, and the colon is relatively longer than in the Acro- bates ; it makes the tour of the abdomen much as in man, but is continued into the rectum without forming a sigmoid flexure. In the Phalangers the duodenum winds round the root of the mesentery, descending pretty low down on the right side, and becoming a loose intestine or jejunum on the left side. The long coecum is suspended by a broad du- plicature of peritoneum continued from the mesocolon; and the colon is closely attached at its transverse arch to the duodenum and root of the mesentery. In the Koala the ccecum and large intestines arrive at their maximum of development. The duodenum commences with a small pyriform sacculus nearly an inch in breadth, and soon contracts to a diameter of five lines, which is the general calibre of the small intestines. The large intestines, where the ilium terminates, have a diameter of two inches. The end of the ileum (a, Jig. 129) protrudes for the extent Fig. 129. Ilea-cweal valve, Koala. Half its natural she. of a quarter of an inch within the ccecum, forming a very effectual valve : near this part there are two wide and deep glandular fossae : the longitudinal valvular conniventes of the large intestines have already been noticed. In the Potoroos the small intestines are dis- posed nearly as in the Phalangers : the short and wide caicum lies in the right hypogastrium: the colon makes the usual tour of the abdomen, but is disposed in long convolutions through its whole course, being suspended on abroad mesocolon. The diameter of both small and large intestines is nearly the same: in Hyps, setosus I found this to be half-an-inch. In the great Kangaroo the descending por- tion of the duodenum is attached posteriorly, by means of a thin peritoneal duplicature, to the spine, and anteriorly to the ascending co- lon : it makes an abrupt turn upon itself, and a fold of peritoneum is continued from the con- vexity of the curve to the right iliac region. The small intestines are strung in short folds on a rather narrow mesentery. The ccecum is in part suspended from the same mesenteric fold. The colon, besides its posterior con- nexions with a mesocolon, is attached, as be- fore observed, to the duodenum ; and also, by means of the great omentum, pretty closely to the stomach, whence it passes down, forming many large and loose convolutions to the rec- tum, being attached by a broad mesocolon to the left hypochondriac region. The zone of glands at the commencement of the duodenum has been already noticed ; they are present in other Marsupials, even in the most carnivorous species; but I have not met with a similar structure in the placental Mammalia. The villi of the small intestines in the Kangaroo are of moderate length, com- pressed and close-set. Glandulae aggregatae are arranged in narrow patches in the ileum. There are seven groups of similar follicles in the coecum; and a few long and narrow patches of glands occur in the colon intermingled with numerous gland ulae solitarice; the surface of the rest of the lining membrane of the large intes- tine is disposed in a very fine net-work. Two faint longitudinal bands extend along the first ten inches of the colon and are con- tinued along two-thirds of the ccecum: the sacculi produced by these bands are but very feebly marked. I have not met with any ex- ample in the Macropus major of a coecum, which, either naturally or when inflated and dried, presented the sacculated structure repre- sented by Cuvier in Jig. 8, pi. xxxix. of the Lecons d'Anat. Comparee. The contents of the ccecum in the great Kan- garoo are of a pultaceous consistence, and the mass continues undivided along the first two feet of the colon, gradually becoming less fluid and then beginning to be separated into cubical faeces about an inch square. The diameter of the large intestine in this species exceeds very little that of the small intestines. In all the Marsupials two sebaceous follicles open into the termination of the rectum. The anus has its proper sphincter, but is also sur- rounded, in common with the genital outlet, by a larger one. When the penis is retracted, the fnscal, urinary, and genital canals all ter- minate within a common external outlet; so that in the literal sense the Marsupials are mo- notrematous. The following is a table of the length of the intestinal canal, and its parts in a few species of the different families of Marsupiaha.