688 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Emcephalon.) Fig. 389. I A m Front view of the cerebellum, with medulla oblongata and mesocephale. (After Foville.) m, m, medulla oblongata. h, h, semilunar fissure. n, the flock on the right side, or lobule of the vagus. 5, fifth nerve. On the left side a layer appears to be extended from this nerve which contributes to form the crus cerebelli. rated by the valve of Vieussens, and, beneath these, the fibres of the restiform columns, and the right and left extremities of the pons Varolii, all of which combine to form the cms cerebelli or central stem of each lateral lobe. The posterior margin is interrupted in its middle by a vertical notch, which divides it into a right and left portion. This notch is wider in front than behind, whence Reil called it the purse-like fissure. The term posterior notch is preferable. It receives the falx cere- belli, and at its bottom we observe a continuity between the superior and inferior laminae of the median lobe of the cerebellum. The superior surface of the cerebellum is slightly convex, inclined backwards and down- wards. It terminates in front by a concave margin, which overlaps the parts contained in the semilunar fissure. This surface is more convex along the middle than on either side. In the latter situations it is inclined and nearly plane; but in the former it resembles more the surface of a cylinder. This middle portion corresponds to what is commonly called the superior vermiform process : it is in fact the upper surface of the median lobe of the cere- bellum. On its inferior surface the subdivision of the cerebellum into two symmetrical portions is very apparent, by reason of the existence of a deep fissure which proceeds from before back- wards along the median line, and is continuous behind with the posterior notch. This fissure is called the valley (vallecula, Haller; grande scissure mediane du cervelet). It separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum, each of which presents a very convex surface, corresponding to each occipital fossa. The arachnoid mem- brane is extended from one to the other, towards the posterior part of the fissure, leaving a con- siderable space between it and the pia mater, which is traversed by some fine bundles of fibrous tissue and occupied by subarachnoid fluid. This space has already been referred to as the posterior conflux of Majendie. The anterior part of this fissure receives the upper and posterior portion of the medulla oblongata. The remainder of it is occupied by the inferior surface of the median lobe of the cerebellum, presenting a remarkable cru- ciform arrangement, which will be presently described. Another very remarkable fissure requires a special notice. It is horizontal, and passes into the substance of the cerebellum, dividing it into an upper and an inferior portion. By