703 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. &re able the quantities in which they may be present: this portion of the subject 1 shall con- clude with a brief sketch of the general method of analysing the principal secretions in the healthy and more ordinary morbid conditions,— for more ample details I must refer to the articles specially devoted to the history of each secretion. I shall then, in the second place, proceed with an outline of the processes best adapted to the ultimate analysis of organic bodies in general. To the pathologist the first of these objects is the most important, and it is he alone who possesses the extensive facilities requisite for investigating the different varieties exhibited by the secretions in disease, whether these varieties present themselves in the undue prevalence of one or more of the proximate principles, the undue deficiency of any of them, or the unu- sual occurrence of any of them among the secretions, or in the tissue of particular organs. The value of such information to the enlightened practitioner is sufficiently evident, for an accu- rate and ready mode of appreciating these changes not only affords him some of the most unerring indications of the nature and progress of disease, but enables him likewise to appre- ciate the effects and influence of the remedial measures that he may think it needful to adopt. To the chemist, on the other hand, belongs more appropriately the task of determining what ought to be considered as really proximate prin- ciples, of insulating them in a pure state, and finally of ascertaining their elementary com- position by ultimate analysis. In every case, before proceeding to analysis, it is desirable, nay, in the present state of science almost necessary, to subject the mate- rial to a careful microscopic examination ; for although this does not of itself suffice to deter- mine the chemical nature of the substances with which we have to deal, it yet furnishes us with the most important preliminary information we can acquire, and is frequently, owing to their close chemical relationship, the only means of ascertaining what is the form of the azotised constituents of the body with which we have to do. In truth, unless a chemist be likewise in some degree acquainted with the resources placed at his disposal by the microscope, he is but half fitted for the task of organic analysis. For the necessary information respecting the minute structure of the different products of animal organization, I must again refer to the various articles on the subject in different parts of this work. (See Blood, Chylf, Milk, Mucus, Pus, Saliva, Urine, &c.) I.—Proximate analysis. As the limits of this article preclude the pos- sibility of my entering into detail upon the ordinary operations of analysis, a task happily rendered unnecessary by the excellent manuals we possess on the subject, I shall limit myself to a few remarks on processes connected more immediately with organic analysis. It is needless here to insist upon the impor- tance of scrupulous attention to the purity of the re-agents employed, as it is a precaution sufficiently obvious. These re-agents are few in number: sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric (or muriatic), and acetic acids, solutions of potash, ammonia, and carbonate of ammonia, alcohol, and ether, constitute the most important; if to these we add solutions of Chloride barium, Nitrate silver, Oxalate ammonia, Phosphate soda, Ferrocyanide potas- sium, Alum, Lime water, Acetate lead, Subacetate lead, Sulphate copper, Sesquichloride iron, Bichloride platinum, Tincture galls, Hydrosulphuret am- monia, with a blowpipe, platinum foil, spirit-lamp, forceps, test-tubes and a stand for them, a few watch-glasses, evaporating dishes and Florence flasks, a retort stand, funnels of different sizes, filtering paper and some lipped glasses, with pieces of glass rod and strips of window glass, we shall be tolerably well prepared for the operations of proximate analysis. Of course distilled water must always be employed in analytical enquiries. For proximate analysis scales weighing 2000 grains and turning with ^th of a grain, when fully loaded, will be sufficient; but for ulti- mate analysis they should be sensible to -^th of a grain when each pan carries 1000 grains. When the weight of a dry residue is to be ascertained, the object is attained with most accuracy by first counterpoising the vessel when empty, and then determining the increase of weight after the desiccation is completed. The dt akcation of all organic substances is best performed, where practicable, in the ex- hausted receiver of an air-pump, over sulphuric acid, by Leslie's process : a flat dish of oil of vitriol is placed on the plate of the pump, and the substance to be dried supported above it in a basin by a triangular framework of wire; the air is exhausted, and care taken to maintain a good vacuum ; the residue thus procured is always much purer and whiter than that fur- nished by any other means, but it is a tedious and circuitous process, and requires ten days or a fortnight for its completion. Upon this ac- count, and for other reasons, this method can- not generally be adopted. The plan which, next to it, presents the fewest objections, con- sists in evaporating by a steam or water heat, so that the temperature can never exceed 212° Fahr. Various methods may be resorted to for effecting this object; by placing one basin within another containing water, an extempo- raneous bath is procured ; but the end is more conveniently attained by the employment of a shallow box of copper, zinc, or tin plate, in the top of which are half-a-dozen circular apertures of different sizes with projecting vertical rims, upon which lids may be fitted when not in use; any vessel to be heated is placed over one of these apertures, and the temperature maintained by oil, gas, or sand heat. Perfect desiccation is essential to accuracy, and from the destructible nature of some or- ganic compounds, especially under the com- bined influences of atmospheric oxygen and an elevated temperature, it is dangerous to effect it by heat and difficult by any other means. In some delicate experiments the following plan,