879 PACINIAN BODIES. Fig. 485. I a, t a Portion of a Pacinian corpuscle, from tlie mesentery of a cat. a a, the internal capsules; b b, capsules of the external system, with intervening fluid. Corpuscles, as at c, are seen in all the capsules. The outer capsules show a double layer, d; e, occasional form of corpuscle in the intercapsular spaces; n n, con- necting membrane between two capsules; o, capil- lary vessel containing corpuscles or nuclei in its wall, and lying withp, a tubular nerve-fibre in q, the channel of the stalk, the fibrous tissue sur- rounding them not being represented. The vessel divides into two branches, one of which perforates the wall of the channel of the stalk and enters an intercapsular space, and the other advances as far as the central capsule. The nerve has the double contour as far as r, where it enters the central cap- sule; from that point it is pale and faint. This specimen represents an offset of the central cavity, and of the pale nerve at s. The stem continues its course, t, towards the further end of the central cavity, while the offset follows the curved axis of the subordinate cavity as far as v, where it ends in a bulb by which it is fixed. Several of the cap- sules are united together at x. Magnified about 300 diameters. surface exhibits very faintly marked elongated nuclei, which most probably belong to the wall of the inner capsule. There is little to add to the description of the nerve-tube already given. It is faintly granular in texture, and occasionally regains, at one or more points of its course within the central capsule, the dark contour which it had lost on entering it. This is particularly the case when it follows a bend of the cavity, and certainly seems to indicate the presence there of a material elsewhere deficient. It is rare, how- ever, to see this re-assumption of the dark border in any very well-marked degree. The mode of attachment of the end of the nerve- fibre varies, being generally by a single tubercle or conical swelling, sometimes by two, and sometimes even by three such. Whatever the number of branches, however, their aggregate thickness is about the same as that of the simple fibre from which they spring. Where the cen- tral cavity exhibits the offsets above-mentioned the pale nerve-fibre is also invariably branched, its subordinate branch always traversing the axis of the subordinate cavity, and being regu- larly fixed at its extremity. It is interesting to observe how accurately the nerve-fibre preserves its place in the axis of the central cavity, how- ever abruptly that may be bent or branched, a fact which might be supposed to indicate some degree of viscidity in the clear substance through which it runs. Respecting the function or use of the Paci- nian corpuscles no satisfactory account has yet been given, nor even a plausible explanation offered. Their presence in so great abundance on the nerves of the palm and sole, and their absence from motor nerves, suggests the ob- vious enquiry, whether they may not be con- nected in some way with the sense of touch, or at least with the function of sensation, to which the fact of their concentration in such numbers in the splanchnic nerves of some animals as obviously answers in the negative. Undoubt- edly, however, we may anticipate much from a more extended research into their connections with the several parts of the nervous system in man and animals, than the very recent date of their disvovery has yet allowed. The specu- lation that they may be concerned in the pheno- mena of what is called animal magnetism is not to be passed over with contempt, if only because it has been hazarded by their distin- guished discoverer, Pacini, who, in common with many other unprejudiced and not inca- pable observers, is inclined to believe in the reality of some of the less marvellous effects which popularly pass under that title, such, in particular, as the mesmeric somnolence and catalepsy. Yet so vague an hypothesis, per- haps, barely deserves to be placed in juxta- position with the descriptive anatomy of the corpuscles. It will be more to the purpose to institute a brief comparison between these bodies and the electrical organs of the torpedo, a description of which will be found under the head of Animal Electuicity. Since that article was written, however, further researches, and especially those of Savi,* have added some points of im- portance which it will first be necessary to no- * Savi, Etudes Anatomiques sur le systeme ner- veux et sur l'organe electrique de la Torpille. Vide Matteucci, Traite des phenomenes electro-physiolo- giques. Paris, 1844.