OPTIC NERVES. 781 For example : firm pressure applied to the globe of the eye when the lids are closed and light excluded, gives rise to the sensation of luminous spectra which present different colours. Concussion of the eye-ball is often followed by the same results : division of the optic nerve in extirpation of the organ of vision generally causes the patient to perceive a great light; and an electric current transmitted through the optic nerve, or its immediate vicinity, seems to produce a flash of light. The second pair, in having their special sensibility excited by such varied stimulants, merely conform to the laws by which other nerves of special sense are go- verned ; for electricity applied to these nerves severally may be made in each case to elicit the peculiar sensibility of the nerve which hap- pens to be the subject of the experiment: in the optic nerve it produces the sensation of a flash of light; in the auditory it excites a loud sound; in the gustatory it gives rise to a peculiar taste; in the olfactory it developes a particular smell; and in the common sentient nerves it causes painful sensations. In like manner a blow may occasion the optic nerve to flash fire, the auditory nerve to hear sounds, the common sensitive nerves to feel pain; and more examples might be added to this catalogue. The nerves of special sense seem in general to be endowed with but one determinate sort of sensibility; and though this is commonly excited by a specific stimulus only, it may be elicited occasionally by other means. Exiito-motory properties.—The optic nerve is one of those paths through which incident impressions are propagated so as to excite reflex motions. The impression of light on the retina is instantaneously followed by con- traction of the pupil, a phenomenon indicative of reflex motion developed in the iris; and the sudden closure of the eye-lids under the influence of a strong light or a threatened blow is also a familiar example of reflex motion produced by impressions upon the terminal expansion of the optic nerve. Lambert, Fontana, and Caldani, have de- monstrated that the optic nerve is the channel through which the incident impression travels in order to excite reflex motion in the iris. In their experiments, rays of light transmitted through a hole in a sheet of paper, and by this contrivance conveyed through the pupil di- rectly to the retina, produced immediate mo- tion of the iris ; but when the light was al- lowed to impinge upon the iris alone without reaching the retina, no contraction of the pupil ensued. Mayo's experiments on pigeons taken in connection with the foregoing facts appear par- ticularly instructive, proving as they do that in the bird, irritation propagated along the optic nerve in a centripetal direction may excite reflex motion in the ins. When the optic nerves were divided within the cranial cavity of a living pigeon by Mayo, the pupils became fully dilated and were no longer obedient to luminous im- pressions even when dazzling light was admitted into the eyes. When a pigeon was decapitated by the same experimentalist, and its optic nerves subsequently divided within the cranial cavity, irritation of that portion of the divided nerves which continued in connection with the eye pro- duced no effect on the iris; but contraction of the pupil immediately ensued when the other extremity of the nerves, viz. that which re- tained its connection withj the^brain, was irri- tated. In general the reflex motion is developed in the iris of the same eye on which the impres- sion is incident, or in other words light falling on the right retina produces in general con- traction of the right pupil and not of the left, and vice versa; but it sometimes happens that an impression propagated along one optic nerve (for instance the right) may cause the reflex phenomena to appear in the iris of the other eye (viz. the left). Certain forms of amaurosis in which the dis- ease affects but one eye while the other con- tinues healthy will serve for illustration. In such cases it occasionally happens that little or no difference in the size of the two pupils can be detected so long as both eyes remain exposed to the light, the iris of the dis- eased organ contracting and dilating simulta- neously with that of its healthy neighbour; but as soon as the lids of the sound eye are closed, the pupil of the amaurotic eye becomes dilated, and the most intense light admitted into this diseased organ takes no effect on the iris, now become perfectly motionless. The explanation of these phenomena is found in the preceding proposition; so long as the healthy eye continues exposed to light, the impression falling on a sound retina excites reflex motion in the pupils of both eyes, as well the amaurotic as the sound; but when the light is excluded from the healthy retina, the influence of that agent upon the diseased retina of the other eye has no longer the power to excite reflex motions. The exercise of these excito-motory proper- ties of the optic nerve is generally accompanied with excitement of its special sensibility; thus a person is in general conscious of the lumh nous impression, or, in other words, he sees the light which causes contraction of his pupil; but the reflex phenomena may be manifested by the iris, although the incident impression pass unnoticed by the individual. In certain cases of general insensibility (as, for example, concussion occasionally) the pupil contracts upon the admission of light while the patient remains perfectly unconscious, and something similar seems to occur at times even in health; for the iris varies its dimensions with each successive change in the volume and intensity of the light, although from inatten- tion we do not perceive these trifling changes. Some degree of attention appears requisite in order that weak or transitory impressions should arouse the special sensibility of the optic nerves, whereas attention is not a condition essential to the production of reflex phenomena. Mayo's experiments here again admit of application; he found that in decapitated pi- geons in which the optic nerves were subse- quently divided, irritation of the cerebral ex-