IRRITABILITY. 39 I next repeated my observations upon a more extensive scale, at the St. Mary-le-bone and St. Pancras Infirmaries. There were two exceptions to the rule ; whilst the numbers in which the phenomena as already described were observed were considerable. These exceptional cases I shall notice parti- cularly hereafter. I must now remark that these observations seem, even more than those of Prochaska, Nysten, and Legallois, at vari- ance with the experiments of Professor Miiller and Dr. Sticker. Before I proceed to discuss this question, I must, however, detail some ex- periments of my own. They were made on six frogs. I divided the spinal marrow immediately below the origin of the brachial plexus; and I removed a portion of the ischiatic nerve of the right posterior ex- tremity. I had immediately, or more remotely, the following interesting phenomena. 1st. The anterior extremities alone were moved spontaneously; both posterior extremi- ties remaining entirely motionless, when the animal, placed on its back, made ineffectual efforts to turn on the abdomen. 2d. Although perfectly paralytic in regard to spontaneous motion, the left posterior extre- mity, that still in connexion with the spinal marrow, moved very energetically when sti- mulated by pinching the toes with the forceps. 3d. The right posterior extremity, or that of which the ischiatic nerve was divided, was en- tirely paralytic, both in reference to sponta- neous and excited motions. 4th. After the lapse of several weeks, whilst the muscular irritability of the left posterior ex- tremity was gradually augmented, that of the right was gradually diminished, phenomena ob- served when the animal was placed in water, through which a slight galvanic shock was passed accurately in the direction of the mesial plane. In this interesting experiment we have, then, first the phenomena of loss of spontaneous mo- tion on removing the influence of the brain, the excited or reflex actions remaining; and the loss of these on removing the influence of the spinal marrow; secondly, in the case of mere cerebral paralysis, we have augmented irritabi- lity, and in that of the spinal marrow we have the gradual diminution of this property. 5th. Strychnine being now administered, the anterior extremities and the left posterior extre- mity, or that still in connexion with the spinal marrow, became affected with tetanus ; but the right posterior extremity, or that severed from all nervous connexion with the spinal marrow, remained perfectly flaccid. 6th. Lastly, the difference in the degree of irritability in the muscular fibre of the two limbs was observed when these were entirely separated from the rest of the animal. In a word, the muscles of the limb para- lysed by its separation from both cerebrum and spinal marrow, had lost their irritability; whilst those of the limb separated from its connexion with the cerebrum only, but left in its con- nexion with the spinal marrow, not only re- tained their irritability, but probably possessed it in an augmented degree. The next question came to be,—Do these phenomena obtain in the human frame? I visited a patient affected with hemiplegia, including paralysis of the face, and I passed a slight galvanic shock through two pieces of metal, of which one was placed over each cheek. The muscles of the paralytic side were most affected. I repeated the expe- riment with the same result. I now compared with these, two cases of injury of the facial nerve, passing the galvanic shock in the same manner, through the fibres of the orbicularis: it was now the muscle of the healthy side which was affected by the galvanism, the eyelid of that side being closed, whilst that of the para- lytic side gaped as before. I next compared the effect of galvanism in two cases of complete paralysis of the arm, one hemiplegic, the other the result of dislocation of the shoulder. The muscles of the former were more, those of the latter less, irritable than those of the healthy arm respectively, as were also those of the arm of a patient affected with the paralysis induced by lead. Lastly, I compared the cases of pa- ralysis of the lower extremities, one arising after pertussis, and therefore cerebral, the other, I think, from disease within the lumbar verte- bra? : in the former there was augmented, in the latter, diminished irritability. By means of these experiments and observa- tions we are enabled, I believe, to explain all the apparent discrepancies between the state- ments of former authors, and between each of them and my own. The observations of Nysten and others deter- mined that the irritability of the muscular fibre still existed in ordinary hemiplegia; but they did not extend far enough to determine the comparative degree of irritability of the para- lytic and of the healthy limbs, or the question whether, in the former, the irritability was dimi- nished—-the event probably expected—or aug- mented, a result, I believe, never anticipated. Prochaska and Nysten and Legallois failed in their experiments, too, by not allowing time for the change in the condition of the irritability of the muscular fibre to take place. Professor Miiller and Dr. Sticker, on the other hand, did not distinguish between para- lysis arising from separation from the cerebrum merely, and paralysis arising from separation from the spinal marrow, a distinction of the utmost importance in every point of view, and that which explains the phenomenon under discussion. The term paralysis has been used by all the authors whom I have quoted in too general a sense. This is so true that I may affirm that in one kind of paralysis, that which removes the influence of the cerebrum, and which is therefore paralysis of spontaneous or voluntary motion, there is augmented irrita- bility; whereas in the other, that which severs the influence of the spinal marrow, the irrita- bility is diminished or even annihilated. We may conclude that in cerebral paralysis the irritability of the muscular fibre becomes augmented from want of the application of the stimulus of volition; in paralysis arising from disease of the spinal marrow and its nerves this