109 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. passing through A and B, this muscle must consequently relax them. The closing of the anterior and central por- tion of the glottis by these muscles, or that part lying between T and V (fig. 29), is effected, according to Mr. Willis, partly by the approach of the point V of the arytenoids towards T arising from the obliquity of the axis of rota- tion, and partly by the swelling of the muscle whilst contracting to approximate the arytenoid cartilages tending to fill the space T N X V (fig. 29), and to close tightly the sides of the passage below the vocal ligaments; thus clos- ing the anterior and central portions of the glottis. The question as to how A is made a fixed point, in the above demonstration, remains to be solved. Mr. Willis remarks that while all writers agree that the crico-thyroidei serve to approximate the cricoid cartilage to the thyroid, either by raising the cricoid or by depressing the thyroid, none of them have shown how the cartilages are to be separated again. Let us investigate this proposition. In order that the motions necessary to dilate the crico-thyroid space be effected by mus- cular motion, it is obvious that A must be made a fixed point, so that B' may be drawn to B (fig. 26), by which f" ascends to f, the object in question (fig. 26). It is clear that the crico-thyroid muscle cannot be employed in this instance, as it has been already shewn that its action is to force B to B' and /'toJ"; whereas we have now to reverse the direction, and to bring back B' to B, so that f may de- scend to J. The sterno-ihyroidei are the only muscles, which by their origin, insertion, and direction of force are calculated to effect this purpose; the insertion of one of these muscles being about the point R at an angle with the axis R N (fig. 26), its force in the line R O S (fig. 26) cutting the right line O N at O ; the effect of which will be to draw forwards and downwards the thyroid cartilage from A to A', and the point R R'; these muscles have the advantage of acting on the extremities of a lever equal to the line O N. When any force equal to that in R S is acting simultaneously with that of the thyro-arytenoideus, in the di- rection ARPB perpendicular to R S, the composition of these forces R S and ARPB will produce a resultant in the diagonal R N, which will cut the axis N; and as by hypo- thesis the forces R O and R P are equals, R and consequently A will be fixed points; but the attachment of the thyro-arytenoid at B makes an angle with the axis in the line B N, and the perpendicular cutting the direction of the force of this muscle produced to the axis is P N; thus whilst the sterno-tliyroid has, by its action on the lever O N, fixed the points A and R, the thyro-arytenoid may act with an equal force at the point B on the lever P N ; but as the force P N is produced on the cricoid (which is free to move by the relaxing of the crico-thyroid), the result will be to rotate the point B towards A, and depress the point /' to f, and thus the question is solved. In the preceding demonstration it must be remem- bered that the point R is assumed to be that in which the whole of the sterno-thyroid is in- serted, whereas it is expanded upon the surface around the oblique ridge, but any of its fibres below R will have the same effect as if at R, provided they are in the line O S. It must also be borne in mind that the thyro- hyoid prolongs the action of the stei no-thyroid to the os hyoides; but in this instance the os hyoides itself descends simultaneously with the expansion of the crico-thyroid space, and we know that the sterno-thyroid is always in action during the descent of the larynx. There is, however, very little muscular force required for rotating the cricoid in the direction in ques- tion. It is therefore evident that the sterno- thyroid is the antagonist to the thyro-arytenoid, and that, in this instance, during the rotation of the cricoid on the.thyroid in the direction B B P A must be the antagonist to the crico- thyroid. From the preceding demonstrations we con- clude that when the crico-thyroidei, the thyro- arytenoidei, the crico-arytenoidei laterales, and the arytenoid muscles are acting simultane- ously, the chink of the glottis is entirely closed. Another function of the thyro-arytenoidei re- lates to their effects during the production of vocal sounds, which will be considered in the article Voice. In order that the glottis may be closed in the manner just described, it is necessary that the crico-thyroid assisted by the sterno-thyroid should have fixed the fulcrum for the play of these muscular motions. The crko-urytcnoidei postici.—The intrinsic muscles of the larynx already described tend, more or less, to affect the antero-posterior di- ameter of the laryx, the tension of the thyro- arytenoid ligaments, or the contraction of the chink of the glottis. The crico-arytenoidei postici have altogether a different tendency. They are a pair of muscles arising at the pos- terior surface of the cricoid (e e, figs. 27 &28); the superior and middle fibres ascend obliquely, the inferior nearly vertically to be inserted into the lateral prominences at the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, anterior to the crico-aryte- noidei laterales. These muscles lie under the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, and upon the posterior surface of the cricoid. The contraction of these muscles is gene- rally said to draw the arytenoids backwards, outwards, and downwards, and to open the glottis posteriorly. This view is in a great degree, but not strictly, accurate. The crico- arytenoideus posticus being inserted into the arytenoid cartilage at N has the effect of acting as on the arm of a short lever at N, and of rotating it upon the axis O P, in the direction of N VV, which is directly opposed to the direc- tion of the force of the crico-arytenoideus late- ralis, which is represented by W N, therefore the effect of this muscle is to separate the vocal ligaments, and consequently to open the chink of the glottis. Mr. Willis remarks that the thyro-arytenoidei postici do not draw the ary- tenoids backwards, as described by anatomists, which implies that the posterior fasciculi of the