PERITONEUM. 944 The peritoneum passes over the anterior sur- face of the kidneys and suprarenal capsules, but is not usually in immediate contact with them ; a large quantity of loose areolar and adipose tissue being interposed. The jejunum and ilium have a complete in- vestment of peritoneum, except along the little linear space where the mesentery is attached to them. The cacum and the ascending and descending colon are always invested with a peritoneal coat in front, and this extends to a variable distance around their sides, sometimes completely cover- ing them except at the little posterior linear spaces where their respective mesenteries, in such cases existing, are attached to them. The transverse portion of the colon is com- pletely covered by peritoneum except along two little linear spaces on the opposite sides of it, namely, on its anterior and posterior aspects, where the great omentum and transverse meso- colon respectively, as described above, are attached. The sigmoidflexure of the colon and the first portion of the rectum are invested completely with peritoneum, except along the line of at- tachment of their respective mesenteries. The second portion of the rectum has a peri- toneal investment on its front only: its lateral and posterior aspects are destitute of such co- vering. The peritoneum, as above stated, passes across from the rectum to the bladder without descending low enough to afford any investment whatever to the lowermost or third portion of the rectum. The conventional divi- sion of the rectum into three portions is, in fact, founded upon this circumstance of its being first completely, then partially, and lastly not at all invested with peritoneum, as you proceed from above downwards. The summits of the recto-vesical folds landmark the point of junction of the upper and middle portions. The whole of the posterior aspect, the fundus and the three upper fourths of the anterior as- pect of the uterus are invested with a peritoneal coat. The os uteri, which projects into the va- gina, the lower fourth of the anterior aspect, which is in immediate contact with the bladder, and the little lateral linear spaces where the broad ligaments are attached, are destitute of it. The peritoneum reaches the vagina behind the uterus, and invests a small portion of it in that situation, but does not come into relation with it in front of the uterus. The ovary is very closely and completely surrounded with peritoneum, which reaches it at its attachment to the broad ligament; we must in this case as heretofore describe a little linear space, at the point of attachment, as des- titute of peritoneal vestiture. The bladder is covered by peritoneum over a different extent in the two sexes. In both male and female its anterior aspect is destitute of peritoneal covering; and its fundus, in bodi sexes, has a peritoneal investment equally com- plete : with regard to the posterior aspect, however, in the male, the peritoneum covers it often as far down as the prostate, whilst it leaves uncovered a large portion of the lower part of this aspect of the bladder in the female. The parietal portion of the peritoneum in- vests the anterior and lateral abdominal ivulls completely, except at the lower part, where it is borne off from the anterior walls by the bladder and along the linear attachment of the falciform ligament of the liver; the under surface of the diaphragm, except between the layers of the coronary ligament of the liver, and along the linear attachments to it of the falci- form and triangular hepatic ligaments, the phrenico-gastric ligament, and the splenic omentum; the posterior parietes, except where the viscera, ducts, and vessels enumerated above as invested with the peritoneum on their front only, intervene. It does not, however, reach the inferior abdominal parietes, that is to say the levator ani, at any point, a quantity of loose cellular tissue occupying the interspaces of the pelvic viscera between that muscle and the lowest point to which the peritoneum extends. We now come to the last of our propositions. The external or adherent surface of the peritoneum is attached to the apposed tissues with different degrees of intimacy in different situations—a circumstance of great importance with regard to certain surgical operations. This attachment is intimate or otherwise, according as the areolar tissue that constitutes the connecting medium is abundant or scarce, loose or compact, in different situa- tions. The connecting areolar tissue is con- tinuous through the openings in the abdominal parietes with the other areolar sheets of the body. The parietal portion of the peritoneum is strengthened by a fibrous layer, so that abscesses seldom burst through it; whilst the visceral portion, being destitute of this layer, is not unfrequently burst through by abscesses of an abdominal viscus, as the liver. The peritoneum lining the under surface of the diaphragm is the most firmly attached of all the parietal portion. That which lines the anterior abdominal parietes is very intimately adherent along the linea alba and sheath of the rectus, but very loosely just above the pubis and about the internal abdominal ring. It is extremely loosely attached to the posterior abdominal parietes and immediately superjacent organs, and in the lumbar and pelvic regions and iliac fossae—a very fortunate circumstance with regard to placing ligatures on the large abdominal and pelvic vessels without laying open the peritoneal cavity. The visceral portion, as it covers the liver and spleen and the alimentary tube, is very intimately adherent to them except at the middle portion of the rectum. That which partially covers the bladder adheres very loosely to it; owing to which, together with the loose- ness of the peritoneal attachment above the pubis in front, to the rectum behind, and to itself in the recto-vesical folds, the bladder when distended rises high above the pubis between the abdominal parietes and perito- neum, pushing the latter up so as to diminish the depth of the recto-vesical cul-de-sac and