PERINEUM. 932 usually foiled, for so deeply do the pudic vessels run, and so firmly bound down are they by the triangular ligament and the obturator fascia, that the ligature, as commonly applied, has proved useless in the hands of even the most dexterous surgeons. The open mouth of the artery may, however, in such cases be often secured by the aid of a curved needle carried deeply into the wound, and some practitioners (amongst the number M. Roux) have succeeded by the same means in tying the pudic artery itself in the vicinity of the tuber ischii, a pro- ceeding attended with complete success. The judicious application of pressure to the bleeding point by an apparatus so constructed as to plug the wound at the same time that it permits the urine to escape freely, has been also followed by satisfactory results. The same principles of treatment are applicable to hemorrhage from accidental wounds of the arteries of the bulb in lithotomy. On dividing the triangular ligament of the urethra the dissector arrives at the deep com- partment of the anterior division of the peri- neum, but to examine its contents with advan- tage he requires a section of the pelvis, such as that advised in a former part of this article. This compartment is limited superiorly or towards the abdomen by the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia; inferiorly or towards the surface by the back of the triangular liga- ment of the urethra; and posteriorly by the rectum ; its shape is somewhat triangular, and it contains Wilson's muscles, many fibres of the levatores ani, a part of the membranous por- tion of the urethra, the prostate gland, a plexus of veins excessively developed in some sub- jects, and at times also an irregular artery justly dreaded by the lithotomist. Wilson's muscles (the compressores urethras) are two triangular fleshy fasciculi, which arise from the back of the symphysis pubis, each by a narrow tendon ; their point of attachment is about one-eighth of an inch beneath the ante- rior true ligament of the bladder, and the same distance above the lower margin of the cartila- ginous arch of the pubis. The two muscles, expanding as they descend, separate from each other at the membranous portion of the urethra, and parsing one on each side of that part of the canal they again unite beneath it in a sort of tendinous raphe, which extends from the pros- tate gland to the bulb; many of their fibres may be likewise traced to the central tendinous point of the perineum. A cellular interstice inter- venes between the two muscles at their origin, and from the levatores ani they are separated at each side respectively by cellular tissue and some small veins. Wilson's muscles may ele- vate and compress the urethra so as to close the canal; their influence in catheterism is decided and has been already discussed; one of them, the left, is divided in the lateral, and both are cut in the bilateral operation of litho- tomy. In some subjects Wilson's muscles are absent, or rather they are inseparable from the levatores ani; but in such cases the anterior fibres of these latter muscles surround the ure- thra, perform all the offices assigned to the compressores urethra;, and are similarly circum- stanced as regards operations on the perineum. The recto-urethral space, but partially seen so long as the triangular ligament of the urethra remains in situ, becomes fully exposed after the division of that fibrous septum. This space results from the inclination backwards of the lower extremity of the rectum, whilst the urethra inclines forwards through the arch of the pubis; its form is triangular, the base at the integuments of the perineum, the apex at the prostate gland, the membranous and the bulbous portions of the urethra constituting its anterior wall, and the rectum bounding it pos- teriorly. In cutting from the integuments to the urethra through the recto-urethral triangle, the anatomist encounters, first, the superficial perineal fascia; next, the extremities of the several muscles which meet and are confounded with each other at the central tendinous point of the perineum, and also the small arterial anastomosis situated in the same locality, still deeper the peaked prolongation of the trian- gular ligament; and, lastly, Wilson's muscles at their junction beneath the urethra. The membranous portion of the urethra is situated within ten lines of the rectum, and the bulb projects still further backwards, lying but half an inch apart from that, intestine, so that, in the lateral and also in the bilateral operations, the lithotomist incurs some risk of wounding the bowel as he lays bare the groove in the staff. In the bilateral method the operator endeavours, by a semilunar incision carried across the recto-urethral triangular space, to reach the staff as it lies in the membranous portion of the urethra, and from the proximity of the bulb to the rectum both these parts are endangered as the knife traverses the interme- diate space. In the lateral method the rectum is not so likely to be injured in the correspond- ing step of the operation, because the bowel is further removed from the membranous portion of the urethra than from the bulb, and besides the urethra is incised somewhat upon its lateral aspect. In either case the surgeon best ensures the safety of the intestine by taking care to have the faeces evacuated before the operation com- mences, by holding the staff well up into the arch of the pubis, and by directing the point of the knife forwards as he cuts into the urethra. The recto-urethral triangular space is the po- sition usually occupied by that rare form of rupture, a perineal hernia ; in this disease the hernia leaves the abdominal cavity at the bottom of the great cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, and drawing down the serous membrane in its pro- gress it gradually insinuates itself between the prostate gland and the rectum, and at length protrudes between the rectum and the bulb. In the perineum the sac is in general rather su- perficial. The tumor occasionally deviates from the middle line, and projects outwards and backwards behind the transversus perinei muscle into the ischio-rectal fossa; it rarely undergoes strangulation, being in almost every instance reducible. The prostate gland demands the special at- tention of the surgical anatomist, for much of