ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 795 As the alkaline chlorides are, moreover, not completely fixed at a red heat, some loss is not unfrequently sustained by a long continued ignition. We may dispense with the employ- ment of nitric acid and avoid loss from volati- lization by shortening the period during which a high temperature is kept up, and simply char- ring the mass at a low red heat so as to destroy all organic matter; the black residuum is then digested in water, by which the alkaline salts dissolve, and after well washing, a little weak nitric acid is employed to remove the earthy compounds : charcoal alone remains undis- solved. By evaporation of the solutions the amount of saline matter is ascertained. Filtration may be performed on good white unsized blotting paper cut of a size to drop completely within the funnel; before pouring in the fluid to be cleared, the filter should be moistened, if the solution be aqueous, with water; if alcoholic or ethereal, with a few drops of alcohol or ether, as the case may be. In order to ascertain the quantity of dry residue, the preferable plan is to employ two filters pre- viously counterpoised one against the other, and to insert one into the other; the excess of weight the inner filter shews when the filtra- tion is complete, after both have been carefully dried on the water-bath, will furnish the quan- tity of solid matter. To render the filtration more rapid, the apex of the outer filter may be cut off so as to leave only one thickness of paper at the point. Occasionally we may weigh the filter itself and mark its weight in pencil upon it; the objection to this plan con- sists in the difficulty of obtaining the paper always at the same point of dryness. It should be first dried at 212°F., placed in a light covered capsule over sulphuric acid, and allowed to cool, then weighed whilst covered from the air. The same care must be observed on again weighing it with the precipitate. Of course in washing an organic precipitate, the same precautions will be required as when pro- ceeding with the analysis of a mineral. The stream of washing liquid should be speci- ally directed to the edges of the filter, which may be known to be sufficiently washed, when by the evaporation of a drop of the liquid which passes through on a slip of glass, no perceptible stain is produced. Whenever decantation, or pouring off from the sediment, can be substituted (as it very frequently may in alcoholic and ethereal di- gestions) for filtration, it is to be preferred, as some loss is unavoidably occasioned by every filtration; whereas by decantation the preci- pitate may be dried in the vessel, and if this have been previously counterpoised we can ascertain the weight of adhering matter with great exactness. By this method the precipitate may be as perfectly washed as when filtration is adopted ; the fluid may be poured off very close to the solid matter, which may again be diffused through a fresh portion of washing fluid, again allowed to subside, and the wash- ing repeated as often as may be necessary. In pouring a fluid from one vessel to another, loss is avoided by moistening a glass rod in the liquid, bringing it into contact with the lip of the glass or basin, and pouring the liquid down this rod, which is not removed until the side of the vessel is nearly restored to the vertical position; by observing this precaution we escape the risk of losing any portion from its running down the outside of the vessel. The drops adhering to the rod are washed into the rest of the solution. The animal substances that we have to ex- amine naturally arrange themselves into fluids and solids, and as this division is convenient in a practical point of view, I shall here adopt it, beginning with those presented to us in a fluid state. In order to fix some definite limit to our enquiries, those principles only will here be noticed, which, from the frequency of their occurrence or their importance as constituents or products of the living frame, are most likely to be the special objects of attention to the physician and pathologist. In this number among the fluid products I shall enumerate fibrin, albumen, casein, fatty matters, urea, sugar, the uric, urobenzoic, lactic, and oxalic acids, mentioning a few other compounds, as ptyalin, sulphocyanic acid, &c. &c, when describing the general plan of analysing the secretions in which they most commonly occur. A. Analysis of animal fluids. When an animal fluid is presented for ana- lysis, it is necessary in the first place to acquire a knowledge of the ingredients which enter into its composition in order to be able to decide upon the best method of ascertaining their proportions. The means of determining the nature and quantity of the organic con- stituents will be first described, leaving the saline matters for a subsequent section. 1. For the organic constituents. It is possible that all the principles just enumerated may occur together; this, however, will very rarely happen unless we have to examine the contents of the stomach, when a still more heterogeneous mass may be pre- sented to us. Having, where practicable, taken the specific gravity of the liquid in order to acquire an idea of its degree of concentration, we place a portion under the microscope, and are thus enabled at once to decide upon the presence of blood globules, pus globules, fatty or oily matters in suspension, the debris of tissues, crystals of various substances, as uric acid, cholesterin, &c, and may then pass to tests purely chemical for its Qualitative analysis. a. By allowing the liquid to stand at rest for a few hours, we at once determine the' presence of fibrin, which coagulates and separates spon- taneously, at the same time enveloping the red globules and suspended particles in its meshes. b. The clear liquid is heated to boiling; if albumen be present it coagulates, unless the solution be alkaline, when the addition of a few drops of nitric acid causes an immediate curd- ling. A drop or two of acetic acid added to