MOTION. 409 site direction to it, will produce an equilibrium. Fie. 206. Let N (fig. 205) be the point acted upon by any two forces N F, N F', which form an angle FNF', and the line NR their resultant, which will draw the point in the direction NR. But if a third force NR', equal and opposite to NR, be applied, it will destroy the motion in NR, and the point N will remain at rest by the simultaneous action of the three forces NR', NF, NF. Fig. 207. c •p D CP Centre of gravity.—The centre of gravity of any body is a point about which, if acted upon only by the force of gravity, it will ba- lance itself in all positions; or, it is a point which, if supported, the body will be sup- ported however it may be situated in other respects; and hence the effects produced by or upon any body are the same as if its whole mass were collected into its centre of gravity. To find the centre Fig. 208. of gravity of any plane body mechanically, let the plane a e d b (fig. 208) be sus- pended freely by a string from the point aj to which a plumb- line a b is also at- tached — the latter will coincide with the vertical line a b, which is to be marked with a pencil: then suspend the plane and plumb-line from a second point e, when the plumb-line will hang vertically in the line e d, inter- secting a b in c,the point c will be the centre of gravity of the plane. To find the distance of the head and feet from the centre of gravity of the human body in a horizontal position; balance the body placed upon a plane a b on a triangular prism de, as in fig. 209; then draw a line on the plane Fig. 209. close to the edge of the prism; again balance the body in another position and draw a line as before, the vertical line passing through c, the intersection of these lines will pass through the centre of gravity. After the plan of Borelli, Weber balanced a plank across a horizontal edge, and stretched upon it the body of a living man : when the whole was in a state of equilibrium, in which the method of double weighing was adopted, by accurate measurements he found the total length of the body m.m. in. = 16G9.2 = 65.30853 the distance of the centre of gravity below the vertex = 721.5 = 28.406455 above the sole of the foot = 947.7 = 37.310949 above the transverse axes of the hip-joints = 87.7 = 3.454729 above the promontory of the sacrum = 8.7= 0.341519 As the horizontal plane of the centre of gravity lies between three-tenths and four-tenths of an inch above the promontory of the sacrum, it must traverse the sacro-lumbar articulation which is intersected by the mesial plane, be- cause the body is symmetrical, and by the transverse vertical plane, the sacro-lumbar arti- culation must, therefore, contain the common point of intersection of all three planes, which coincides with the position of the centre of gra- vity of the body when standing; but this point varies in different individuals in proportion to the difference of the weight of the trunk to that of the legs, as well as by any change of the position of the limbs. The centres of gravity of particular figures may be found geometrically and analytically, as shewn in mechanical treatises; but these methods require computations too detailed for our limits. The attitudes and motions of every animal are regulated by the positions of their cen- tres of gravity, which, in a state of rest and not acted on by extraneous forces, must lie in vertical lines which pass through their bases of support. Thus, if g (Jig. 210, a and n) be the common centreofgravityoftwobodies whose re- spective centres of gravity are g, II, in A