PISCES. 991 dency towards the amphibious type, we find at the same time that the branchial as well as the osseous system manifests a most interest- ing transitional structure between the plagios- tomous and osseous fishes. We have next to consider that part of the respiratory system which is organized for breathing immediately the atmospheric air, or the lungs; for I do not know how otherwise to designate, according either to their physiological or morphological relations, those organs which in the technical language of the ichthyologist would be termed the swimming or air-bladder. The trachea, or to use the same technical and partial nomenclature, the "ductus pneumaticus," is a wide short membranous tube, as in the Perennibranchiate Reptiles. The glottis (Jig. 524, c,) opens near the posterior part of a long rudimental thyroid cartilage (f): a few lines posterior to the isthmusfaucium the opposite end of the trachea dilates into a membranous sac, which commu- nicates by two large lateral apertures with the lungs. These are widest at their anterior extre- mities, and gradually decrease in diameter to the cloaca, behind which they terminate each Fig. 525. Respiratory and circulatory apparatus of Lepidosiren annectens, after Owen. a, auricle ; b. ventricle laid open to show the ter- mination of the vena pulmonalis, in which a black bristle is placed ; c, bulbus arteriosus laid open ; d, pericardium ; e, vena cava abdomi- nalis; f, vena pulmonalis; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, branchial arteries of left side ; m, pulmonary artery ; n, pulmonary vein. in an obtuse point (Jig. 525). They are lodged in the dorsal angle of the abdominal cavity behind the kidneys, and are attached by cellular tissue to all-the surrounding parts, and especially to the ribs, of which they bear the impressions on their posterior surface. The an- terior part of each lung is divided into four or five small lobes, behind which it takes on the form of a simple compressed bag, and so con- tinues to its posterior extremity. The parietes of the lung present a moderate thickness throughout, and the whole of the internal sur- face is cellular, the cells having the same pro- portional size and form as in the respiratory portion of the lung of a serpent. The cells are largest and most subdivided at the anterior part of the lung, the livid colour of which, in the specimen dissected " by Professor Owen, " attested the great vascularity of the part." In tracing the arrangement of the circulatory system of the Lepidosiren the same interme- diate type of structure is most interestingly conspicuous. The heart consists of an auri- cle, (Jig. 525, a,) ventricle, (b,) and a bul- bus arteriosus. The vena cava (e) termi- nates in the right side of the auricle; it is joined by the two superior cavae and by the single large pulmonary vein; this vein (J) does not, however, communicate with the sinus, but passes along entire and adherent to the inner surface of the vena cava as far as the auriculo-ventricular aperture, where it empties its contents into the ventricle by a distinct orifice protected by a cartilaginous valvular tubercle. It needed only that the pulmonary vein should have been dilated before its termi- nation, in order to have established a bi-auri- cular structure of the heart, as in the Amphi- bious Siren. The same functional advantage is, however, thus secured to the Lepidosiren with a maintenance of the simple dicaelous type of the heart of the fish ; this continuation of the pulmonary vein preventing the admix- ture of the respired with the venous blood, until both have arrived in the ventricle. The ventricle (Jig. 525, b) is extremely small; its parietes are thick and reticularly muscular; a small round orifice leads to the bulbus arteriosus (c). This is formed by a short spiral turn of the dilated aorta, which is concealed under a simple continuous fibrous coat. The area of this part of the vessel is almost entirely occupied by two continuous valvular projections or their processes, which are attached by one edge to the internal sur- face of the aorta, and have the opposite margin projecting freely into the arterial cavity. The aorta in this remarkable species fulfils at once the office of a systemic, a branchial, and a pulmonary artery ; it distributes on each side six vessels, (Jig. 525, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,) corresponding to the six branchial cartilaginous arches. The mucous membrane is produced into a branchial fringe on the convex side of the first, fourth, fifth, and sixth branchial arches, and the corresponding arteries are minutely sub- divided before they are continued to the dorsal side of the pharynx ; these four pairs of vessels are therefore true or functional branchial arte- ries. The mucous membrane merely invests with a simple fold the second and third bran- chial arches; and the corresponding arterial trunks undergo no subdivision as they wind round them, but are continued entire (as in the Amphiuma and Menopoma) to their termina-