ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 233 absorbent glands; and, thirdly, with respect to the nature of the contents of the system Inflammation of the absorbent vessels has long been known to practical men. A number of red lines appearing through the skin, and giving to the touch the sensation of round and hard cords immediately underneath the skin, taking the direction and occupying the position of the superficial lymphatics, are seen to proceed from some point of irritation, as a poisoned wound or a syphilitic sore, towards the nearest set of absorbent glands. There are much tenderness and pain on the least pressure in the whole course of these lines, and the glands to which they go are more or less swollen, and the skin over them is of a reddish colour. These lines correspond to the inflamed absorbents, which, at first isolated, soon excite inflammation in the surrounding cellular tissue, and the hard cords above described are lost in the thickened and infiltrated subcutaneous tissue. When an incision is made into such an inflamed surface, the lymphatics, according to Gendrin, are seen upon the margins of the incision as red fibres, having the irregular, knotted appearance which those vessels exhibit when injected with mer- cury and converging towards the inflamed tissue of a gland. It may be fairly presumed that the anatomi- cal characters of these vessels in a state of inflammation are the same as those of the inflamed thoracic duct, examples of which have occurred to Gendrin and Andral. The vessels of its coats (vusa vasorum) are much injected, and the coats themselves thickened and rendered friable—the inner coat red, soft, and swollen—sometimes with lymph poured out upon it, which tends to obstruct and obliterate the canal, giving rise to dilatation below the obstructed point, or with pus effused, which also occasions the vessels to be dilated. Sir A. Cooper found adhesion and ulceration of the valves of the thoracic duct in a body in which he could not succeed in injecting that vessel. In the body of a phthisical patient Andral found the lacteal vessels on the surface of the intestine, corresponding to the situation of an ulceration of the mucous membrane, remark- ably white and hard, and so dilated at intervals as to resemble a string of rounded nodules. On examination these nodules were found to be caused by thickening of the coats of the lacteal vessels. Irregular dilatations or varicosities of the absorbent vessels, but especially of the thoracic duct, have been very frequently observed. These most frequently arise from some pres- sure impeding the circulation of the fluid in them, as a tumour or aneurism pressing on the thoracic duct in some part of its course. Mr. Cruikshank delineates a thoracic duct, remarkable for its great size. It was found in a man 40 years of age, but the cause of the dilatation was not apparent, as no obstruction existed either at the entrance of the vessel into the veins or in any part of its course. The great trunks of the absorbents accompanying the large arteries in the extremities were en- larged also, but the cutaneous absorbents were of their usual size. The case referred to by Dr. Baillie, in which the duct is said to be as large as the vena azygos, is probably the same. The morbid changes of the absorbent glands are much more familiar to us than those of the lymphatics themselves, as being more appreci- able if not of more frequent occurrence. In- flammatory states of these bodies are very often met with, either in conjunction with inflamed lymphatic vessels or alone. In inflammation the absorbent glands become enlarged, very vascular, and painful to the touch, and the surrounding cellular tissue participates in the inflammation, so that if several glands be inflamed a tumour of some size and hardness will be formed. The tissue of the absorbent glands themselves is not prone to run into sup- puration, but pus will often speedily form in the surrounding and connecting cellular tissue, which by-and-bye accumulates, forms an ab- scess, is discharged, and leaves the glands, with the intervening cellular tissue, dissected away by the suppurative and sloughing process. It is thus that a bubo will originate from one or more inflamed inguinal or axillary glands, and when the constitution is enfeebled and fa- vourable to a phagedenic action, we frequently find these glands exposed by the destruction of the skin and cellular tissue. Sometimes, how- ever, little collections of pus form in the glands themselves, and, according to Gendrin, the fluid in the glands differs remarkably from that in the cellular tissue, the latter being thick, opaque, viscid, and of a greenish hue, whilst the former is clear, transparent, and almost colourless. Gendrin infers from his observa- tions that the lymphatics which permeate the inflamed glands become obliterated ; but Dr. Bocher, a German anatomist, quoted by Andral, affirms that he repeatedly injected with mercury lymphatic ganglions presenting different forms of morbid alteration, and that he invariably found the injection pass freely through all the convolutions of vessels, whence he concludes that in diseases of these ganglions the lesion is, at least in the great majority of cases, confined to the cellular tissue that unites the convolu- tions of the vessels, or to the coats of the ves- sels, but that there is no obstruction of their cavity. The lymphatic glands are also liable to be chronically inflamed, or to be hypertrophied, and under both conditions put on the same anatomical characters, viz. redness, increased size, induration. In children, of both sexes, the glands at the angle of the jaw and those of the neck frequently afford examples of these morbid states. The bronchial and mesenteric glands likewise present similar enlargements. Atrophy of the absorbents occurs very com- monly in old persons. Various deposits are met with in the absor- bent glands. Of these the most frequent is tubercle, or a cheesy curdy matter of a yel- lowish hue, which bears much resemblance to tubercle. This matter is deposited in isolated spots in the glands, or else appears to be infil- trated throughout their substance. In phthisical subjects, in scrofulous patients, these deposits