982 PISCES. tube passing directly from the stomach to the anus. In the Mullets (Mvgil), on the con- trary, the intestine is of great length and is very curiously folded, being intervolved with the folds of the liver so as to form a mass of trian- gular form moulded to the shape of the abdo- minal cavity, and affording an example of the longest and, in its disposition, the most complex intestinal canal of any of the class. This arrangement, as Kathke very justly ob- serves, is an obvious approximation to the dis- position of the viscera most generally met with in molluscous animals, in which the folds of the intestine are prolonged into and almost bu- ried among the folds of their very large liver. In the Etectric Eel (Gi/mnotus electricus) the disposition and termination of the intestinal tube is curious. First descending to the lower end of the stomach, it passes to the left side and ascends again as far as the oesophagus ; it then winds downwards and backwards so as to encircle the stomach, and, lastly, advancing for- wards along the ventral aspect of the abdomen, it terminates, as in the Cephalopoda, beneath the throat, in the immediate vicinity of the heart and root of the tongue. No fish has anything like a colon or ccecum. The only distinction between small and large intestines is met with just at the termination of the alimentary tube, where it opens into a kind of cloacal cavity, usually called the rectum. At this point there is generally a prominent cir- cular fold of the lining membrane constituting a kind of valve. In the Salmon several of these valvular zones succeed each other, giving to this part of the gut an appearance similar to that of the intestine of the Plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes immediately to be described. In the Sharks and Rays, the Plagiostomes Fig. 519. Alimentary canal of Shark. a, oesophagus ; b, b, cavity of stomach, at the commencement of which are placed the valvular fringes mentioned in the text; c, passage leading to pylorus ; d, spleen ; e, pyloric cavity ; f, dilated chamber; g, h, bile-ducts; i, orifice of pancreatic duct ; k, k, valvular intestine. just referred to, and also in the Sturgeon, the intestine presents a very remarkable structure. Externally it resembles a wide bag nearly simi- lar in shape and size to the stomach itself, and so short and stunted that, without some special arrangement, obviously a sufficient surface would not be afforded for the absorption of the nutritious portions of the food. By the me- chanism adopted, however, this is abundantly provided. Throughout the whole length of the gut the mucous membrane is arranged in deep spiral folds (Jig. 519), which wind from end to end, only leaving a small orifice in the centre of each valvular projection, whereby the different compartments formed between the spiral lamina can communicate with each other, so that the digested food by this unusual arrangement is spread over a very great superficial area, and all the benefits of a long and convoluted intestinal tube are secured. Each fold of this extensive spiral valve contains between the layers of mu- cous membrane that compose it an elastic substance, whereby it is kept constantly spread out and restored to its original position when displaced by the passage of food through the central channel that permeates the whole series. In the Sturgeons a similar valve exists, but its spiral folds are not so closely arranged : the intestine, moreover, is remarkable on account of the great thickness of its muscular and in- ternal tunics, the latter of which presents a reticulated or honey-combed appearance, the larger meshes including irregular spaces, which are again subdivided into smaller cells. Slight vestiges of the spiral intestinal valve are visible even in the Lamprey. Salivary glands.—From the circumstances under which Fishes swallow their food, the presence of any salivary apparatus is evidently uncalled for; no fish, therefore, possesses true salivary glands. Nevertheless, in the Cypri- nidas and some other races the whole palate is covered with a soft spongy substance, from which a kind of mucosity is discharged through imperceptible pores, which has been regarded by Rathke and others as a salivary organ : Cuvier, however, denies the glandular character of this substance, regarding it as a peculiar and highly sensible tissue destined to be the seat of a sense more or less analogous to that of taste, —a supposition that is rendered more probable from the great number of nerves that enter its substance. Pancreas.—In the osseous Fishes no pan- creas, such as that met with in the higher classes of vertebrate animals, exists; it is, however, represented by a variable number of ccecal appendages, which open into the duode- num in the vicinity of the pylorus. The lining membrane of these pyloric coeca is of a glan- dular character, and secretes an abundance of a thin glairy fluid analogous to the pancreatic secretion. The existence of the appendages in question is, however, by no means constant; thus in the Lubrida, the Silurida, the Cj/pri- nida, and many members of the pike genus, they are altogether wanting. When present, moreover, their number varies very remarkably in different Fishes; thus, sometimes, as in the