OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 335 attached to the extremity of the upper poition of one of the thiee last branchial arches. Condition of thcoshyoidcs in Reptiles.—The condition of the os hyoides in a per- fect Reptile is very simple when compared with that of the Fish, or even, as is most strikingly apparent in the amphibious Reptilia, with that which it exhibits previous to the accomplish- ment of the metamorphosis which changes the mode of respiration from that ofa fish into that of the Frog. In the adult Reptile, indeed, the composition of this bone gives no indication of its pre- vious complexity of struc- ture, consisting only of the remains of the anterior cor- nua (26, a) and a broad hatchet-shaped disc forming the body of the bone. In Lizards its structure lemains more complicated, resembling that of Birds. The body is generally simple, with two and sometimes three sets of cornua- like appendages connected with it. From the fore part of the body projects along and slender process, more or less cartilaginous, which pe- netrates the substance of the tongue. The ante- rior pair of cornua are variously folded, and the posterior placed differently in different genera; while the third pair, which is but seldom met with, seem rather to be prolongations of the body of the bone than separate elements appended to it. In theChelonian Reptiles the hyoid apparatus varies remarkably in form in different species. It generally consists of a central part, which is frequently itself divisible into several pieces, and of two or sometimes three pairs of cornua. Moreover, beneath the anterior part of the body, there is suspended a bone or cartilage, which is sometimes double and represents the special bone of the tongue, which in Birds is articulated to the fore part of the body of the os hyoides. The os hyoides of the Crocodiles is the sim- plest met with in the class of Reptiles, its central portion being a mere broad cartilagi- nous plate, convex below, concave above; its anterior part having a semicircular form, while its posterior margin is hollowed out into a con- cave edge; there are no remnants of cornua visible, and the os hyoides here seems to per- form the duties of epiglottis, hyoid, and thy- roid cartilage. Metamorphosis of the os hyoides.— Pro- fessor Bell having already described the most remarkable changes which the branchial appa- ratus of the Frog undergoes during its meta- morphosis, it would have been needless to recur to the subject again in this place, were it not for the purpose of collating the facts there recorded with the series of changes we are now discussing, and indicating the nature of the respective bones delineated in a preceding FJg. 447. volume (vide Article Amphibia, vol. i.figs. 21, 22, 23,24, 25, 26). We shall, however, embrace the opportunity afforded of adding a few circum- stances to those there recorded, extracted from the observations of M. Martin St. Ange, con- nected with this most remarkable and interest- ing process. Some days before the birth of the Tadpole the os hyoides consists of a single median piece, of a pair of broad cartilaginous plates situated on each side of the former, anteriorly, and of two other similar plates occupying a like position behind, to each of which last are appended four separate styliform pieces repre- senting the branchial arches, making thirteen pieces in all. Examined a little after birth, the whole car- tilaginous frame-work is found to have increased considerably in breadth, more espscially the eight last-mentioned cartilaginous styles upon which the branchial vessels run, sufficiently indicating their nature—moreover, they become united together by their distal extremities so as to form a series of arches, as represented in Jig. 21, vol. i. p. 98, at c. At this point of its deve- lopement the hyoid system of the Frog is at its maximum of complexity, and we will therefore pause to examine the elements that enter into its composition. The median piece (Jig. 21, b, vol. i. p. 98) represents, according to Geoffrey, theglossohyal, hasihyal, and «ro//^«/elernents of the Fish. The elements marked a will be the stylhyal bone, suspending the whole from the tympanic bone of the skull (c), while the broad pieces c, c, regarded by the same author as being dismemberments of the larynx, imme- diately sustain the branchial arches. At that period, when in consequence of the changes that take place in the circulation of the Tadpole the branchial vessels are to be oblite- rated, the condition of the os hyoides too becomes rapidly changed. The cartilaginous arches become diminished, especially in length, and at last become completely absorbed except- ing two remnants, which are found appended to 3 H 2