distinct existence. Nothing, however, can be more absurd than such a dogma. The two classes of phenomena are not connected other- wise than by a very remote analogy. All the phenomena of Life (putting aside, of course, those psychical changes with which we are contrasting them) concern matter only, and consist in its actions and reactions, and there is nothing in them related to feeling or con- sciousness ; it is but reasonable, then, to refer them to the laws of matter if we can do so. But the phenomena of mind are universally allowed to be of a very different character; there is nothing tangible or material about them ; and, whether we regard them as causes or results of material changes, our reasons must have a very different basis than the existence or non-ex.stence of a vital principle. On this point all the most intelligent of modern writers are fully agreed.* The doctrine of" the vital principle," which is at present very commonly received under some form or other, may be regarded as having been first put forth in a distinct form by Barthez, who invented this term to signify something distinct from either mind or body, but never- theless capable of existing by itself. The vis medicutrix natura, which figures so promi- nently in the theories of Hoffmann and Cullen, is nothing more than the same hypothetical agent under a different name ; for by this term was denoted a " sort of in-dwelling guardian of the body," which " presides over its func- tions in the state of health; and, when any accidental cause of distuibance has given rise to a temporary disorder in the system, exerts itself to the best of its ability, with a sort of instinctive effort, often well directed, though sometimes liable to mistake, to restore the healthful and regular condition."! No one can have observed the phenomena of Life in morbid conditions of the body without witness- ing examples of the tendency to reparation in the various parts which have suffered from the ravages of disease or injury ; but this tendency results, like their ordinary operations, from their original constitution as parts of an or- ganised system, and not from any independent agent whose existence can be demonstrated ; so that if the common phrase, " the healing power of Nature," be employed at all, it should * Thus Mr. Aborncthy, in his Exposition of Hunter's Theory of Life, contended against con- founding perception and intelligence with mere vitality. Dr. Prichard remaiks (Review of the Doctrine of a Vital Principle, p. 71,) that the con- scious principle or mind and the vital principle, " supposing for a moment that both really exist, are entirely distinct, in their nature and attributes." And Dr. Alison's authority fully coincides with those already quoted. " Whatever notion we may entertain respecting the existence of a vital prin- ciple, it has no connexion with our notion respect- ing the existence of mind." (Outlines of Physio- logy, p. 3.) These three physiologists may be regarded as fairly representing three different classes of opinions regarding the vital principle ; the first being a zealous partizan of its claim to be considered a distinct entity, the second as zealous an opponent of the doctrine, and the third taking an intermediate position, t Prichard, op. cit. p. 17. vol. irr. only be used as a general term for the expres- sion of this tendency. Precisely the same may be said of the " Nisus Formativus," or Bil- dungstrieb of Blumenbach. If it be employed merely as a general expression of phenomena evidently directed by their unknown cause or causes towards the same end, it is unobjection- able ; but care must be taken lest it be sup- posed that something has been gained by such a generalisation, which, in fact, merely refers to the final cause and not to the efficient cause, and does not, therefore, carry us forward one step in the inquiry into the latter. If, on the other hand, it is intended thus to designate an agent whose operations produce these pheno- mena, it cannot be distinguished in any way from that commonly spoken of as the vital principle. Of a similar character would seem to be the "organic agent" of Dr. Prout, the "organic force" of Muller and other German physiologists. If by them are intended any entities separate from matter, or any forces distinct from those which the action of its properties creates, they evidently come under the same category.* We arrive, then, at last at the doctrine of the vital principle, which, since the time of Hunter, has prevailed in Britain, especially amongst his disciples, until a comparatively recent period, when its unphilosophical charac- ter, its inability to explain the phenomena of Life, and the absence of any valid evidence for such an hypothesis, have been made appa- rent. It is not easy to discover, however, from his writings, what were the precise opinions of Hunter upon this topic ; for the inquirer is constantly perplexed by the peculiar vagueness of his expressions, which, if taken in a rigid sense, would indicate ideas quite opposed to one another. Thus, we find him at one time speaking of the brain as itself the materia vit<c in a concentrated state, and speculating that " something similar to the materials of the brain is diffused through the body, and even contained in the blood." But he elsewhere intimates his opinion that the principle of life is independent of organisation, a something superadded to the organised structure, as mag- netism to iron, or electricity to various sub- stances with which it may be connected. This view was warmly espoused by Mr. Abernethy ; so warmly, indeed, that he almost transforms the analogy into identity, maintaining that " if the vital principle of Mr. Hunter be not * Such expressions, says Rudolphi, (Translation by How, p. 216,) may be approved of " when it is wished briefly to mention the unknown cause of life ; but it is extremely objectionable to presume that they have thereby explained anything. Au- thors generally commence at first with the modest declaration that they mean, by the word vital power, no more than the unknown origin of lite; but this mask of modesty is presently thrown aside, and they proceed as if the thing had been quite clearly proved. It is now become a something which is imparted to the body in a certain quantum ; and they talk of increased and diminished, exalted and fallen vital power, &c,, and thus they have a Deut e.r machina which must help them through all obstacles. In such a case was Brown witli his Excitability." L