941 PERITONEUM. deficiency of peritoneal investment to the dia- phragm and liver between its anterior and posterior portions allows the liver to adhere to the diaphragm, and small vessels and lym- phatics to pass from the one to the other. The triangular ligaments of the liver are the continuations of the layers of the coronary ligament, become adherent as above, leaping across from the rounded posterior corners of the liver to the nearest or postero-lateral portion of the upper concave abdominal parietes, that is to say, to the diaphragm. Their form is, as their name indicates, triangular; their anterior borders are free; their posterior and internal borders are attached, the former to the parietes, the latter to the liver. They help to keep the liver in situ. The lesser omentum has been partially de- scribed above. Between its layers are included the vena ports, the hepatic artery, the gall- duct, and the hepatic plexus, along its free border; and the pyloric and coronaria ventriculi arteries, with accompanying veins and nerves, along its gastric attachment. Except in the course of these vessels, it is a thin transparent membranous sheet, with a very small amount of strength. The vessels destined for its own proper nutrition are extremely few and small. With regard to its use, Cruveilhier thinks that it is a true mesentery of the stomach, mesogas- trium, but on this point we would offer the following remarks. One characteristic of a mesentery is, that it retains its bowel in situ, and this office the lesser omentum doubtless partially performs towards the stomach; but another characteristic of a mesentery is, that it gives passage to the arteries and veins of the bowel to which it belongs, and this office the lesser omentum performs, not for the stomach, but for the liver. It is the splenic omentum, or that part of the great omentum whereupon the spleen is sessile, extending between the parietal line of attachment running from the cardia to the left bend of the colon, and the fundus of the stomach, that conducts the prin- cipal gastric vessels, as the coronaria ventriculi, vasa brevia, and gastro-epiploica sinistra, from the parietes to the stomach. The splenic omen- tum fulfils indeed both these offices towards the stomach, and occupies with regard to it the position of a parieto-visceral fold,a relation still more characteristic of a mesentery. We there- fore are inclined to consider the splenic omen- tum as the mesogastrium ; and some facts in comparative anatomy, (figs. 490, 491,) as well as that mentioned above, of its affording transit to the hepatic vessels, seem to indicate that the lesser omentum is the mesentery of the gall-duct and liver. The splenic omentum is the name given to that long corner of the great omental pouch which extends up to the left of the fundus of the stomach as high as the cardia. It obtains its name from the circumstance of the spleen being situated on its outer aspect. The spleen, in a certain sense, is included between the layers; it is invested, however, by the outer layer alone,—the inner layer passes by it un- interruptedly. Soemmering mentions a liga- mentum phrenico-gastricum, a peritoneal fold connecting the cardiac end of the stomach to the diaphragm ; it is the very uppermost corner of this part of the great omental sac, which gets somewhat behind the cardia, and is not unfrequently complicated by one or two small falciform folds, rendered very conspicuous by pulling up the stomach. The attachments of this part of the great omental pouch have already been described ; between its layers are contained, at its very tip or uppermost corner, the arteria coronaria ventriculi, with its accom- panying vein and nerves ;* and lower down the splenic vessels and nerves as far as from the parietes to the spleen, and the branches of the splenic vessels called vasa brevia and gastro- epiploica sinistra, as far as to the fundus of the stomach. There are a few lymphatic glands near the root of the spleen ; such glands, together with fat in variable quantities, are very commonly included between the layers of the peritoneal duplicatures. The use of the sple- nic omentum is to retain the spleen and stomach in situ, and to give transit to the splenic and gastric vessels. The great omentum, called also the gastro- colic omentum. The apron-like appearance and the sac-like form of this singular structure, and also its attachments, have been described above; it is necessary to add the following remarks. It extends much further down in the adult than in the foetus. It reaches lower down on the left side than on the right. Owing to the proximity of its lower edge to the femoral and inguinal rings, it frequently constitutes a part or the whole of the contents of hernial sacs. It reaches lowest down when the stomach is empty, and is very considerably drawn up by distension of that organ. It is usually spread apron-like evenly over the small intestines, but is not unfrequently found lying folded up on one side or the other of the abdomen, occasionally even turned up over the liver and stomach. It is frequently loaded with immense quantities of fat, and indeed is seldom or never destitute of it along the sides of the vessels which form such a beautiful net-work between its layers. In the intervals or meshes of this network the omentum is so extremely thin that it is difficult to believe it composed of two layers, and not unfrequently the membrane is deficient in these situations, giving to the whole the appearance of a piece of lace finely perforated. This is always the condition of the great omentum of the dog, in which animal we have repeatedly assured our- * The arteria coronaria ventriculi is rarely ac- tually included between the layers of the splenic omentum in the human subject; the posterior as- pect of the cardiac end of the stomach coming into immediate adhesion with the diaphragm, frequently allows of this artery reaching it without being en- closed in any peritoneal duplicature; not unfre- quently, indeed, it is found to enter the corner of the gastro-hepatic omentum at once, and sometimes it occupies one of the little falciform folds just mentioned, but occasionally it is situated as the description indicates, and as this is its constant course in all or most of the inferior animals, we consider it and describe it as its normal one.