326 MARSUPIALIA. and occasionally protrudes its head and changes its position in the pouch. The anatomical condition and progressive development of the mammary foetus of the Marsupialia offer a subject of highly interest- ing research, especially if compared with the same circumstances in the uterine foetus of an equal sized and analogous placental species. Much still remains to be done in this chapter of the history of Marsupial generation; at present I have to offer the following obser- vations. By comparing the new-born Kangaroo with a similarly sized foetus of a sheep, we find that, although, in the Kangaroo, the ordinary laws of development have been adhered to in the more advanced condition of the anterior part of the body and corresponding extremities, yet that the brain does not present so dispropor- tionate a size; and the same difference is ob- servable in the uterine foetus of the Kangaroo, even when compared with the same sized em- bryo of an animal of an inferior class, as the bird. This difference, I apprehend, is owing to the rapidity with which the heart and lungs acquire their adult structure in the Kangaroo, whereby the passage of the purer and more nutritious blood through the foramen ovale and left auricle to the primary branches of the aorta and so to the brain is impeded. The brain, however, of the mammary foetus, though exhibiting a low degree of development, yet is of a firmer texture than in a similarly sized fcetus of a sheep, and attains its ultimate pro- portion by a more gradual process of growth. In a mammary foetus, one inch and a half in length, the urinary bladder is largely deve- loped, and adheres by its apex to the perito- neum, exactly opposite that part of the abdo- minal integument where a small linear ridge indicated the previous attachment to the umbi- lical chord and appendage. There are also minute but distinct traces of umbilical arteries running up the sides of the bladder to this point of attachment. As the urinary bladder be- comes afterwards expanded in the abdomen, the peritoneum is gradually, as it were, drawn from this part of the abdominal parietes, form- ing an anterior ligament of the bladder. In a mammary fcetus of the Kangaroo about a month older than the above, there was at the superior part of this duplicature a small projecting point from the bladder, like the remains of a ura- chus; but the fundus, now developed con- siderably above this point, was covered with a perfectly smooth layer of peritoneum; and it is this modification, I apprehend, which led Hunter to suppose that there was no trace of urachus or umbilical arteries in the foetuses of the Marsupialia. In the Sloth, the Manis, and the Armadillo, the urachus is continued in the same manner from the middle of the anterior part of the bladder, and not from the fundus. In neither of the above foetuses of the Kan- garoo was there any corresponding trace of umbilical vein, although there was a distinct ligamentum suspensorium hepatis, formed by a duplicature of the peritoneum descending from the diaphragm to the notch lodging the gall-bladder, and not entering, as usual, the fissure to the left of that notch : the allantois is too small, and its function too limited for the preservation of any permanent trace of its peculiar vein. The small intestines in the mammary fcetus, one inch and a half long, when compared with those of the uterine fcetus above de- scribed, were found to have acquired several additional convolutions ; the fold to which the umbilical vesicle had been attached was still distinct, but now drawn in to the back of the abdomen. The coecum was much elongated, but the colon proportionately not more deve- loped than in the uterine fcetus; the subse- quent modification, therefore, of the large in- testines seems evidently destined to complete the digestion of the vegetable food. The stomach was not sacculated, but the division between the cardiac and middle com- partments was more marked than in the uterine foetus. The liver had now advanced in its development beyond the oviparous form which it presented in the uterine foetus, the right lobe being subdivided into three. The supra-renal glands bore the same proportionate size to the kidneys. The testes were still larger than the kidneys, and were situated below them, not having yet passed out of the abdomen: this takes place when the mammary fcetus is about three inches long from the nose to the root of the tail. The ductus arteriosus was distinct in the small mammary foetus, but I could not perceive any trace of the thymus gland. Is this gland unnecessary on account of tlie pre- cocious development of the lungs ? or because of the small size and gradual growth of the brain ? The latter appears the more probable condition of its absence, as in the ovovivipa- rous classes with small and simple brains the thymus gland is rudimental or of doubtful existence. Notwithstanding that the new-born Kanga- roo possesses greater powers of action than the same sized embryo of a sheep, and approxi- mates more nearly in this respect to the new- born young of the rat, yet it is evidently in- ferior to the latter. For, although it is enabled by the muscular power of its lips to grasp and adhere firmly to the nipple, it seems to be unable to draw sustenance therefrom by its own unaided efforts. The mother, as Professor Geoffroy and Mr. Morgan have shown, is therefore provided with the peculiar adaptation of a muscle (analogous to the cremaster) to the mammary gland, for the evident purpose of injecting the milk from the nipple into the mouth of the adherent foetus. Now it can scarcely be supposed that the foetal efforts of suction should always be coincident with the maternal act of injection ; and if at any time this should not be the case, a fatal accident might happen from the milk being forcibly injected into the larynx, unless that aperture were guarded by some special contrivance. Professor Geoffroy first described the modi- fication by which this purpose is effected; and Mr. Hunter appears to have anticipated the ne-