PENIS. 914 Krause,* having recourse to the chemical in- vestigation of this substance in man, came to a very different conclusion from that of Miiller. " After many hours boiling," he saysj " the fibres of the corpus cavernosum of man are con- verted almost wholly into gelatine, whereas, in boiling muscular substance, the cellular sub- stance alone suffers this change, and the mus- cular fibre becomes still more evident. Again, if a portion of the boiled internal structure of the corpus cavernosum, not as yet reduced to jelly, and a portion of muscular fibre boiled for an equally long time, be examined with the microscope, the difference is more apparent than in the fresh condition. A solution of the fibrous structure of the corpus cavernosum (previously well washed with water) in concen- trated acetic acid is not precipitated by feno- cyanate of potash, whereas a similarly treated solution of muscular fibre affords an abundant white or blueish-white precipitate." In reply to Krause's analysis, Miiller remarks: " it will be seen that our investigation on the corpus cavernosum of the horse gives a precisely op- posite result to that of Krause on the same part in man ; whence it follows, either that Krause has examined this peculiar substance mingled with other structures, as cellular tissue, &c, or that it does not exist in man. Had Krause investigated the tissue described by me in the penis of the horse, he would undoubtedly have met with the same results which I have so constantly obtained." Besides the fibres of contractile fibrous tissue distributed through the parietes of the venous canals, the arteries and nerves of the corpus cavernosum also ramify in the intercellular sub- stance in their course through the structure of the penis. The corpus spongiosum (corpus cavernosum urethra) is a lengthened cylindrical body situ- ated along the under surface of the corpus cavernosum in its inferior groove, and forming the inferior border of the penis. It commences posteriorly between and beneath the crura of the penis by a rounded enlargement, the bulb, and terminates at the extremity of the organ in the glans penis; the intermediate portion is cylindrical in form, and enlarges gradually from its middle towards the two extremities, the bulb posteriorly and the base of the glans in front. The glans penis resembles in form an oblique section of a cone, rounded at its apex ; it is slightly compressed from above downwards, and is terminated posteriorly by a prominent border, the corona gtandis. At the apex of the glans is a small vertical slit, the meatus urina- rius, which is bounded by two more or less protuberant labia, and extending backwards along the middle of its under surface is a grooved raphe, to which is attached the franum piaeputii. The colour of the glans penis pre- sents a deeper tint of red than that of the neighbouring integument, and is invested by mucous membrane. At the meatus urinarius this membrane is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra, and at the base of the * Hccker's Annalen, February, 1831. glans is reflected on the inner surface of the prepuce, as far as the free margin of the latter. The corona glandis is studded by a number of small papillary projections, formed by sebaceous glands, the gland tit a Tysoni (udorifera), which pour out a whitish, unctuous, and strongly scented secretion to lubricate the surface of the glans and prepuce. Behind the glans is a deep furrow, bounded by the corona in front, and posteriorly by the fold of the prepuce. Examined with the microscope, the surface of the glans penis is found raised into small rounded papilla; which cover every part of its surface. The corpus spongiosum is traversed in the direction of its length by the common urino- sexual canal, the urethra. At the commence- ment of the corpus spongiosum, the urethra occupies a groove upon the upper surface of the bulb ; further on it enters the substance of the body, but lies much nearer to the upper than the lower surface, while at its termination it occupies the lower segment of the glans. The corpus spongiosum resembles the corpus cavernosum in being composed of a plexiform vascular structure enclosed in a dense and strong fibrous investment, but it differs from that body in the smaller size of its venous canals, the thinness of its fibrous tunic, and especially in enclosing the canal of the urethra. The vascular structure of the corpus spongio- sum, like that of the corpus cavernosum, con- sists of dilated veins of smaller size than those of the latter body, and separated in the same manner by membranous parietes. In the glans penis the veins are even smaller than in the body of the corpus spongiosum, particularly near the surface and around the embossed border of the corona glandis. The contractile fibrous tissue appears to me to be similarly distributed between the veins, but is smaller in quantity than in the corpus cavernosum. Mayer also describes this tissue as existing in the parietes of the venous canals of the corpus spongiosum, but Miiller denies its existence in that body, and observes, " in the corpus spon- giosum, where Mayer also admits this sub- stance, it is not present, at least it is perfectly clear that it does not exist in that body in the horse." The fibrous tunic of the corpus spon- giosum is continuous at its bulb with the ante- rior layer of the deep perineal fascia. The mucous membrane of the penis is the lining of the urethra and the investment of the glans and internal surface of the prepuce. In the canal of the urethra, near the extremity of the organ, it is of a deep pink colour, and be- comes gradually paler as it approaches the bladder. By the contraction of the coats of the urethra it is thrown into longitudinal folds; and it is furnished with numerous small lacuna, which are especially numerous along the upper surface of the cylinder. The openings of these lacuna; are directed forwards, and are calcu- lated to afford an impediment to the passage of any small instrument into the bladder by catch- ing its point. One lacuna of larger size than the rest is situated in the upper wall of the urethra, at about an inch and a half from the