OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 837 complicated by the developement of additional elements hereafter to be described, and in these tribes the examination of the dorsal ribs ex- hibits to the osteologist several points of very great interest relative to this portion of the skeleton. In the Crocodile, for example, the elements derived from the vertebra? present every gradation of form between the simplest and most complex condition of the costal pieces. The hinder ones are loose and floating, being mere appendages to the transverse pro- cesses, to the ends of which they are fixed as in the Batrachia, by a simple undivided articu- lation ; but as we advance forwards from this point along the true thorax, their connection with the vertebrae becomes progressivelychanged through a series of most beautiful gradations of form ; the head of the rib becomes slowly divided into two distinct articulating surfaces, both of which are at first attached to the trans- verse process of the corresponding vertebra, but more anteriorly the bifurcation of the head of the rib being completed, one division be- comes attached to the body of the vertebra, while the other, the tubercle, is fixed to the transverse process, and every gradation inter- mediate between the two extremes of structure presented in this portion of the skeleton is thus exhibited in the same animal. But dorsal ribs are developed in the Crocodile anterior to the thorax and with a very different office, costal appendages (fig. 432, o) being attached to all the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra;. These, instead of being piolonged downwards, spread out anteriorly and posteriorly, assuming the shape of the letter T, and forming a con- tinuous chain of bones, that trammels the lateral movements of the neck, but at the same time affords ample surface for the attachment of the unusually strong muscles of this Reptile's neck. The dorsal ribs of the Chdonian Reptiles are equally interesting on account of the strange modification in the manner of their connection with the spine, whereby they are absolutely brought quite to the exterior of the body, and in the Tortoises so completely united by suture to the spinous processes of the vertebra;, and likewise to each other, as to form the greater portion of the dorsal shield or carapax peculiar to these races. In order to effect this total change in the position of the costal elements of the skeleton, the anatomist finds to his asto- nishment that very simple arrangements are necessary. The neuro-spinal apophyses of the vertebrae are prodigiously developed and spread out into broad flat osseous plates firmly con- nected with each other and with the tubercles of the ribs by means of their broad serrated margins; this being accomplished, the usual attachments between the head of the rib and the spine become unnecessary ; the bodies of the vertehrae remain quite rudimentary, the transverse processes are obliterated, and the head of the rib itself reduced to a ligamentous condition, the carapax being left sufficiently strong without any necessity for the usual abutments of the ribs on the vertebral column. In Birds, on the contrary, a precisely oppo- site arrangement is required in order to com- bine strength and lightness in the construction of the framework of their thorax, which must bear the strain of the strong muscles used in flight. The bifurcation of the commencement of the rib is here exaggerated to the utmost; its strongly developed head is firmly articulated to the vertebral bodies, and by means of its tubercle it is additionally secured to the trans- verse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and moreover, besides the strong buttresses thus made to sustain the thorax, additional long splints of bone project backwards from the dorsal ribs much in the same manner as in Fishes, only here the superadded processes are prolonged until they overlap the rib succeeding next behind, binding the whole together; and materially assisting to strengthen the thoracic framework. But even in Birds, as in the Crocodile, the dorsal ribs are found developed from the ver- tebra; anterior to as well as behind the proper thorax. In Mammals, the great portion of the chest consists of dorsal ribs, which are eked out in front by costal cartilages connecting them on each side to the sternum. Yet still the floating ribs behind the proper thorax are persistent, and in one rare instance, namely, the Sloth, they exist in front as well, appended to what else the anatomist would call cervical vertebrae. We therefore see at once that the division of the spine into the different regions pointed out in the human skeleton is quite arbitrary, as the existence of ribs and the possession of a thorax are by no means necessarily linked together. A very singular illustration of the co-exist- ence of thoracic and non-thoracic ribs is met with in Reptiles belonging to the remarkable genus Draco, in which, although the anterior ribs are completely developed so as to form a true chest, the six hinder pairs are converted to a totally different use, being prolonged laterally to a great extent, and covered with a duplica- ture of the integument so as to form an ample parachute, by the assistance of which these agile little lizards are in some degree supported in the air as they leap from branch to branch. The thoracic portion of the skeleton is only met with in a complete state in Birds and the higher Reptili'a, the Saurians and Chelonians, in which races it constitutes a very elaborate framework composed of numerous elements, of which no traces are perceptible in the human subject or in the generality of Mammalia. In the Crocodile it is seen to be made up of the fol- lowing parts—1st, of a complete apparatus of dorsal ribs (Jig. 432, I), connected to the transverse processes and bodies of the dorsal vertebrae; 2ndly, of an equal number of sternal ribs (in), interposed between the ends of the former and the sides of the sternum ; and, 3dly, of the sternum (n), forming the pectoral boundary of the chest. The sternum itself, although usually consi- dered by the human osteologist as being ex- tremely simple in its composition, is, when fully developed, made up of several distinct elements equalizing in importance any that assist in building up the skeleton. It is, how-