72 3c PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. * Miiller's Physiology, by Baly, vol. i. p. 8!8. it to excite pain. Headaches, of whatever na- tliem serves to establish a communication be- tween the centre of intellectual action, and the centres of volition and sensation. It is through this connection that the intellect and the will are capable of mutually affecting each other, the intellect prompting or exciting the will ; and the will, on the other hand, controlling or applying the powers of the intellect. The faculty of attention, and, therefore, in a certain degree, that of memory, are dependent on the influence of the centre of volition upon the centre of intellectual action. Every one is sen- sible of a power which he possesses of fixing his attention on any given subject, as distinct as that by which he can contract any particular muscle. The association of the intellectual centre with that of sensation is necessary to en- sure the full perception of sensitive impressions. The experience of each individual can supply him with numberless instances in which, while the mind was employed upon some other ob- ject of interest, an impression was made upon some one of the organs of sense, and indistinctly J'elt, but not fully perceived. When the mind has become disengaged, the fact that an impres- sion had been made is recalled, without any ability to recollect its precise nature. And in many lunatics the centre of intellectual action is so impaired as to destroy or greatly reduce the power of perception, whilst there is abun- dant evidence to shew that the affections of the organs of sense make a sufficient impression on the centre of sensation, although in such cases this centre may likewise participate in the general hebetude. Perfect power of speech, that is, of expressing our thoughts in suitable language, depends upon the due relation between the centre of volition and that of intellectual action. The latter centre may have full power to frame the thought; but, unless it can prompt the will to a certain mode of sustained action, the organs of speech cannot be brought into play. A loss of the power of speech is frequently a precursor of more extensive derangement of sensation and motion. In some cases the intellect seems clear, but the patient is utterly unable to ex- press his thoughts; and in others there is more or less of mental confusion. The want of con- sent between the centre of intellectual action and of volition is equally apparent in cases of this description, from the inability of the patients to commit their thoughts to writing. The hemispheres of the brain, as has been already stated, are insensible to pain from me- chanical division or irritation; in wounds of the cranium in the human subject, pieces of the brain which had protruded have been removed without the knowledge of the patient. Never- theless, pain is felt in certain lesions of the brain, even when seated in the substance of the hemispheres, or in the optic thalaini or corpora striata. This results from the morbid irritation extending to other parts with which nerves are connected, as the medulla oblongata; or in which nerves are distributed, as the membranes. The nearer a cerebral lesion is to the membranes or to the medulla oblongata, the more likely is ture, must be referred to irritation, either at their centres or at their periphery, of those nerves which are developed in the dura mater or in the scalp. The branches of the fifth pair, of the occipital nerve, and the auricular branch of the cervical plexus, are those most frequently affected. Certain sensations are referred to the head which may occur from a morbid state, or may be produced by changes of position in the body. Such are vertigo, a sense of fullness, or of a weight in the head, a feeling of a tight cord round the head. These are, no doubt, truly subjective, arising from altered states in the distribution or in the quality of the blood sent to the brain. A sensation of a rushing of blood to the head is often consequent upon excessive hemorrhage, or accompanies a state of extreme debility from any cause. This is, doubtless, owing in great part to the feeble tone of the arteries, resisting imperfectly the flow of blood to the head, and allowing it to impress the nervous matter too much. It is well known, that, by turning round quickly on one's own axis, the sense of vertigo may be produced; a confused feeling in the head, and an inability to maintain the balance of the body, accompa- nied by an appearance as if external objects were revolving. If the eyes be kept shut, the uneasy feeling of the head will take place, but no true vertigo. To obtain this feeling per- fectly, the eyes must be open, and objects pre- sented to them. And Purkinje has shewn that the direction in which external objects appear to revolve is influenced by the position of the body and of the head while turning round, and by the position of it afterwards, when the expe- rimenter has ceased to move round. If the experimenter have kept his head in the vertical position while moving round, and afterwards when standing still, the objects appear to re- volve in the horizontal direction. If the head be held with the occiput upwards while turning round, and then erect when standing still, the objects seem to rotate in a vertical plane, like a wheel placed vertically revolving round its axis.* It is highly probable that these sensa- tions, as well as those which arise spontaneously, are due to some irregular distribution of blood to various parts of the brain. A. sense of gid- diness frequently precedes fainting, and is at- tributable to the temporary deficiency in the supply of blood to the head. If the horizontal position be immediately adopted, or the body be laid with the head inclined downwards, the faint may be prevented. The sense of giddi- ness which is experienced upon rising from the horizontal position after illness, is doubtless of the same kind. Anemic patients experience this feeling of giddiness even in the horizontal position; and both it and the headache and delirium, which accompany this state of blood- lessness, may be relieved by placing the patient on an inclined plane with the head downwards. The mind possesses a remarkable power of exciting and of exalting painful sensations in various parts of the body. If the attention be