PARTURITION. 904 the posterior auricular, the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid. The posterior auricular nerve passes off from the anterior part of the portio dura ; it passes upwards and forwards round the anterior sur- face of the mastoid process, and is joined by the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus; it then becomes superficial, accompanies the artery of the same name, and is distributed to the ear and side of the head. The digastric nerve passes backwards and is distributed by several filaments to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. It sends an anasto- motic filament to the glosso-pharyn°eal nerve. The stylo-hyoid nerve arises often from a common trunk with the preceding; it enters the stylo-hyoid muscle after passing along its supe- rior border. After the portio dura has given off the above- mentioned branches it passes forwards through the substance of the parotid gland below the meatus auditorius extemus; it then crosses over the posterior auricular artery and the styloid process, the external jugular vein and the ex- ternal carotid artery, and before reaching the ramus of the jaw it divides into two branches, the tempero-facial and the cervico-facial, which diverge from each other. The tewpero-fucial division passes upwards and forwards in the substance of the parotid, forming with the trunk of the facial nerve an arch, the concavity of which is above; it then crosses the neck of the lower jaw and receives at this point one and sometimes two branches from the auriculo-temporal branch of the in- ferior maxillary nerve. The tempero-facial nerve then breaks up into a number of branches which anastomose and form arches, from the convexities of which proceed a number of di- verging filaments, some of which pass upwards and others forwards, emerging from beneath the parotid, to be distributed to the muscles of the face. The cervicofacial division is smaller than the preceding; it takes the same direction as the trunk of the nerve, passing downwards and forwards in the substance of the parotid ; at the angle of the jaw it divides into three or four branches; these subdivide into secondary branches, some of which pass forwards to sup- ply the muscles of the lower part of the face, while others are distributed to the upper part of the cervical region. Lymphatic glands — Several lymphati c glands are 'found imbedded in the superficial surface, and in the substance of the parotid. These may readily be distinguished from the tissue of the parotid by their red colour. They are not uncommonly the seat of disease, and if their removal becomes necessary the opera- tion may be done without much difficulty and without great risk of wounding any important textures. But a slight consideration of the deep connexions of the parotid and of its close relations to the many important parts which pass through it, and by which it is surrounded, will be sufficient to convince the surgeon that the removal of this gland cannot be effected without extreme difficulty and danger, and that it must necessarily be attended by injury to some of the important parts in this region. The division of the facial nerve, and conse- quent palsy of the face, may be looked upon as one of the most serious and certain conse- quences of an attempt to excise the parotid. (George Johnson.) PARTURITION, MECHANISM OF. Parturition is the act in which the matured fruit of healthy conception and gestation is transmit- ted along the passages of the mother. " Rien de plus curieux que le mechanisme par lequel le foetus est expulse ; tout s'y passe avec une pre- cision admirable," is the quotation which the celebrated Naegele has used for a heading to his essay on this important process in the human subject, the first in which it has been completely and accurately described. Perhaps in no de- partment of physiology do we gain so much instruction from comparative anatomy as here; when we examine the ovipara, especially the higher orders of them, we are struck with the simplicity of the parturient process, and with the equally simple laws by which it is governed. The oval form of the egg shows that its long dia- meter must run parallel with the canal through which it has to pass, and in these classes of animals this single law constitutes nearly the whole mechanism of parturition in them. In the vivipara the process becomes some- what more complicated ; the fcetus enveloped in its soft and fluctuating bag of membranes and the more perfect pelvis bring many other relations into play which do not exist in the lower classes ; hence in the viviparous animals we see that the manner in which the fcetus ad- vances through the passages of the mother vanes considerably, still however not so much as to render it incompatible with the law above mentioned. In considering the process of parturition in the lower classes of animals it will be scarcely necessary to go beyond the Vertebrata, for in the lowest classes, especially the zoophytes, it admits of but little comparison with them, the analogy rather inclining in the contrary direc- tion, viz. towards the vegetable kingdom. In some of the other classes, viz. Vermes, &c, little certain is known as to this process beyond that the generative organs are of the simple tubular character; we must except, however, the Insecta, in many of which the ova and the mode of their expulsion strongly resemble a much higher class, viz. the Aves. The Fishes, which are the lowest class of the Vertebrata, have no bony canal or pelvis; the whole apparatus for parturition is a tube the lower part of which at least is fibrous ; in the larger fishes it is muscular and capable of con- siderable dilatation. In the Ray and Shark tribe we first see this canal divided into two parts, viz. the ovary and oviduct; still the pro- cess is of the simplest character, the ova being- propelled precisely like the contents of an in- testinal tube. In the viviparous sharks, the Blen- nius viviparus, and still more remarkably in the Cetacea, where as belonging to the Mam- malia we first see the oviduct divided into a