885 PAR VAGUM. appearance of this swelling depends upon fat globules placed in the intervals of the plexus. At the lower part of this gangliform enlarge- ment the nerve becomes smaller, rounder, firmer, and of a whiter colour.* This inferior or second ganglion of the vagus has been long known. Fallopiusf speaks of an oblong olivary swelling on the vagus soon after its exit from the cranium. Willis \ has described it in the following words : " nervi truncus, ibidem major faetus, in tumorem quemdam corpori calloso, seu ganglio similem, attolli atque excrescere videtur," and in fig. ix. he has delineated it under the name of " plexus gangliformis paris vagi." Vieussens§ also describes and figures it, and terms it " plexus gangliformis cervica- lis nervi octavi paris." Winslow|| describes it as " une espece de ganglion." It has also been described by Prochaska,^ Wutzer, Scarpa, Bellingeri, &c. Some have considered it to be a true ganglion, others only a plexus. Some re- strict the term of inferior ganglion to that por- tion of the enlargement of the nerve immediately beloiv the origin of the superior laryngeal nerve, and have described it as being placed upon the internal fibres only, so that, according to this view, some of the external fibres of the vagus and the strengthening fibres of the spinal ac- cessory do not pass through it. The vagus in its passage down the neck gives off pharyngeal, laryngeal, oesophageal, cardiac, and vascular branches. Superior pharyngeal branch (ramus pharyn- geus seu primus n. v.)—This is by much the largest and most important pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and is frequently designated, par excellence, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus. It arises from the anterior surface of the vagus shortly after its exit from the foramen lacerum, and opposite the upper part of the atlas, and is evidently formed by fibres, partly from the internal branch of the accessory, and partly from the vagus. Generally the greater part of its filaments, occasionally nearly the whole, appear to come from the accessory. It passes inwards and a little downwards across the anterior sur- face of the internal carotid artery, to which it is generally pretty closely connected by cellular tissue, and lies a little inferior to the glosso- pharyngea lnerve.** Immediately after crossing the internal carotid, it passes over the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery, and after a short course * Oper. cit. S. 484. t Opera omnia, p. 407. Francof. 1600. % Cerebri Anatome, p. 226. 1666. § Neurograpbia Universalis, p. 118, and pi. xxiii. Edit. Novissima. Lugduni, 1716. || Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain, torn. iii. p. 237. Paris, 1732. % De Structura Nervorum, 1779. ** Cruveilhier (Anatomie Descriptive, torn. iv. p. 958, 1836,) describes the pharyngeal branch as passing behind (derriere) and not in front of the internal carotid. Cloquet (Traite d'Anatomie De- scriptive, 2de partie, p. 620,) also described it as passing behind the internal carotid. No doubt this nerve may occasionally pass behind the artery, and similar varieties are to be found in the course of all nerves ; but it is equally certain that its usual course is in front of the artery, and this inaccuracy must have occurred through some inadvertency. it reaches the surface of the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx. As it is crossing the carotid it is generally joined by one, two, or three small branches descending from the glosso- pharyngeal, and at the point of their junction a small plexus or ganglion is formed on the pharyngeal. (Vide article Glosso-Pharyn- geal Nerve.) At this point the pharyngeal generally divides into several branches.* Two of these are considerably larger than the others, and one of them passes inwards and upwards, and the other inwards and downwards over the lateral surface of the pharynx; while the smaller branches, two or more in number, pass upon the surface of the internal carotid and neigh- bouring bloodvessels, especially the arteria pharyngea ascendens, to assist in forming the nervous plexuses surrounding them. The two larger branches which pass upon the surface of the pharynx are soon joined by branches from the superior ganglion of the sympathetic. The upper branch passes over the superior pharyn- geal constrictor to its upper edge, sending filaments to that muscle, to the elevator palati, the palato-pharyngeus, the azygos uvulae, and also to the stylo-pharyngeus, and anasto- moses freely with the pharyngeal and tonsillitic branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and twigs of the sympathetic coming from its superior cervical ganglion. The lower runs downwards over the surface of the middle and inferior constrictors, distributes twigs to these muscles, and anastomoses with the inferior pharyngeal branch of the vagus, the pharyngeal branches of the superior laryngeal, and with some filaments of the sympathetic. Inferior pharyngeal branch (ramus pharyn- geus inferior).—This branch arises a very little below the last, and runs parallel to it and across the anterior surface of the internal carotid. It is joined by a considerable branch from the superior ganglion of the sympathetic, which generally forms an arch with it around the ascending pharyngeal artery. It soon divides itself into different branches, which are distri- buted upon the lower part of the middle con- strictor muscle, and over the whole of the inferior constrictor, and anastomoses with the twigs of the other nerves found on the surface of these muscles. Valentin describes under the name of middle pharyngeal nerves (rami pharyngei medii seu tenuiores n. v.) some small filaments arising from the anterior surface of the vagus imme- diately below the superior pharyngeal, and which pass forwards to join the pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal. The free anastomosis of the nerves we have mentioned, viz. the glosso-pharyngeal and sympathetic, with the numerous subdivisions of the pharyngeal branches of the vagus, intermixed with a few twigs from the superior laryngeal, and also with some small filaments from the upper part of the cervical plexus of nerves, and an occa- sional twig from the hypo-glossal, form an elongated and intricate plexus (plexus pharyn- * Wrisberg (De Nervis Pharyngis, Ludwig's Script. Min. Nerv. Sel. torn. iii. p. 58) describes five branches radiating from the ganglion pharyngeum.