636 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres sabulous matter consists chiefly of phos- phate of lime with a small proportion of phos- phate of magnesia, a trace of carbonate of lime, and a small quantity of animal matter. The pia mater adheres very closely to the surface of the brain, coming for the most part into contact with grey matter. When a portion of it is raised carefully in a fresh brain, num- berless extremely minute bloodvessels are seen passing from it into the cerebral substance. These are the principal nutrient vessels of the brain. On its outside the pia mater adheres partially to the arachnoid membrane. At those points which correspond to the convex portions of the convolutions the adhesion of arachnoid to pia mater is close; but at other places the latter membrane separates completely from the former. The pia mater of the brain differs from that of the spinal coid in its great delicacy and tenuity ; it wants the strength and density of the latter membrane. This is owing to its being composed almost entirely of extremely minute and delicate bloodvessels, whilst the spinal membrane consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue. The bloodvessels of the former are in- finitely more numerous than those of the latter, and the reason of this probably is that the cerebral membrane is chiefly in contact with grey matter, which requires a great quantity of blood, but the spinal membrane immediately embraces white matter, which is much less vascular. It is important, in a pathological point of view, to notice that this membrane is the me- dium of nutrition, not merely to the nervous matter of the brain and cord, but also to the arachnoid membrane which is immediately adherent to it, and to which it bears the same relative position as the sub-serous areolar tissues elsewhere to their respective serous membranes. Hence the difficulty, if not the impossibility, of adopting distinctions which systematic wri- ters endeavour to make out between arachnitis and superficial inflammation of the brain. It is physically impossible that there shall be arachnitis without serious disturbance of an inflammatory kind in the circulation of the pia mater, nor can this exist without affecting the superficial layers of the grey matter of the convolutions. It may, therefore, be confidently affirmed that arachnitis, when affecting that portion of the arachnoid membrane which co- vers the hemispheres of the brain, is synony- mous with inflammation of the superficial layers of the grey matter of the convolutions. Whatever be the point of departure, it seems impossible that inflammation of the one can exist without a similar and equal affection of the other. And thus we may explain the ap- parently anomalous statement of authors that inflammation of the arachnoid should give rise to a more violent train of symptoms than deep- seated inflammation of the brain. The real difference is, not between membranous and The Meninges.) cerebral inflammation, but between an inflam- matory affection of the superficial grey matter of the convolutions, the great source and seat of the physiological activity of the brain, and a similar morbid action of the more central white substance, the function of which is in a certain sense subservient to that of the super- ficial grey matter. Of the arachnoid membrane.—This mem- brane is intermediate to those already described. We have preferred giving the description of it last, because to understand it demands an acquaintance with the details of both those membranes. The arachnoid is a great serous membrane pervading the entire cranio-spinal cavity. Its parietal layer adheres intimately and insepara- bly to the inner surface of the dura mater both cranial and spinal, and its visceral layer is attached to the outer surface of the pia mater. In point of structure and general disposition the arachnoid membrane resembles other se- rous membranes, so much as to render it inex- pedient to enter into any minute comparison of them. It will only be necessary to refer to such peculiarities of arrangement as may arise from the anatomical characters of the nervous centres with which it is connected. Spinal arachnoid.—-The serous character of the spinal arachnoid is best seen by examining a transverse section of the spinal cord and its membranes. If the section be made across the interval between two sets of spinal nerves, the visceral and parietal layers of the mem- brane may be seen in contact with each other; the parietal layer closely attached to the dura mater, the visceral layer adherent to the pia mater of the spinal cord so loosely as to leave a considerable space between it and the outer surface of that membrane. Fig. 366. Bergmann, iiber die innern Organisation des Gehiins. The last author states that he has seen the sandy deposit excessive in connexion with mental derangement. Transverse section of spinal cord and its membranes between the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. ( After Arnold.) v, visceral layer of arachnoid membrane ; s, sub- arachnoid space ; c, arachnoid cavity. We may here notice an important distinction which the student of this portion of anatomy will do well to note particularly, namely, that the space between the two layers of arachnoid membrane is the arachnoid bug or sac, in which it is very rare for any fluid to accumu- late; and that that between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the pia mater is the sub- arachnoid cuvi'i/, in which, as will be shown by-and-bye, a considerable quantity of fluid exists in the natural state. When the section is made on a level with the nerves as they emerge through the dura mater, we may notice the manner in which the arach- noid membrane is prolonged upon the nerves in the form of a loose sheath, forming little