791 ORBIT. cures the delicate suspension of the eye-ball when the muscles are at rest, and a steady movement of it when any of them are thrown into action. We have the following experi- mental evidence to offer in support of the state- ment which Hunter has made. A dog was killed by the injection of air into a vein, and immediately the inferior oblique muscle was exposed by dissecting off the conjunctiva, with- out in anyway interfering with the surrounding parts; by means of two fine wires a slight electric current was then directed through the muscle. The effect was a rapid rotation of the eye upon its antero-posterior axis, so that a piece of paper placed at the outer margin of the cornea passed downwards and then inwards towards the nose. The superior oblique was then exposed at the back of the orbit, and was treated in the same manner. The rotatory movement produced was precisely the reverse of the former; the paper at the outer margin of the cornea passed upwards, and then in- wards towards the nose. In the case of the superior oblique the movement was less exten- sive, the irritability of the muscle being less, perhaps from the delay in exposing it, and from some slight injury inflicted on it in so doing. There could be no doubt as to the direction of the movement in both cases ; there was not the slightest appearance of elevation, depression, abduction, or adduction of the cornea. This experiment was witnessed by Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman. The experiment was subse- quently repeated on another dog with precisely the same result. The superior oblique in the second experiment did not contract so vigo- rously as the inferior, but the movement it pro- duced was the same as in the first experiment; and when gentle traction was made in the pos- terior part of the muscle, the rotation of the eye was very decided, and in a direction the reverse of that in which it rotated under the influence of the inferior oblique; again there was not the slightest movement of circumduction. There can be no doubt that the function of these muscles is the same in all animals in which they exist; and any experiments to determine their use must be more satisfactory when per- formed on animals immediately after death than in the human subject at a considerable period after death, when the fat and muscles have become equally firm and unyielding. Under such circumstances it is evident that the results of traction upon the muscles cannot be relied upon as accurate. It is remarkable that this rotation of the eye should have excited so little attention; since, if we only recognise the existence of such a movement, the use and necessity of the oblique muscles must be ac- knowledged, it being evident, as we have pre- viously stated, that the straight muscles are incapable of effecting it. Consensual movements of the two eyes.— Upon this subject we subjoin the following extract from Miiller:*—"There is an innate tendency and irresistible impulse in the cor- responding branches of the third nerve to asso- * Physiology, by Dr. Baly, p. 99. ciate action ; while in the sixth nerve, not only is this tendency absent, but the strong action of one of these nerves is incompatible with the action of the other. These innate ten- dencies in the third and sixth nerves are ex- tremely important for the function of vision, for if, in place of the sixth nerves, the external recti muscles had received each a branch of the third nerve, it would have been impossible to make one of these muscles act without the other; one eye, for example, could not have been directed inwards while the other was di- rected outwards, so as to preserve the paral- lelism or convergence of their axes, but they would necessarily have diverged when one rectus externus had been made to act volunta- rily. To render possible the motion of one eye inwards while the other is directed out- wards, the external straight muscles have re- ceived nerves which have no tendency to con- sensual action. In consequence, however, of the tendency in the two internal straight mus- cles to associate action, it is necessary, where one eye is directed inwards and the other out- wards, that the contraction of the rectus ex- ternus of the latter should be so strong as to overcome the associate action of the rectus inter- ims of the same eye ; and in the effort to direct one eye completely outwards we actually feel this stronger contraction of the external rectus." It is certainly contrary to our general notions of the skill and economy of nature to sup- pose that she would so clumsily construct and endow the muscles and nerves of the eye, that in order to direct one eye outwards the external rectus muscle must struggle with and overcome the internal rectus of the same eye in conse- quence of this " irresistible impulse in the cor- responding branches of the third nerve to associate action." Doubtless the generality of those who have no theory to support will acknow- ledge that in directing the eye outwards they are unconscious of any such struggle between opposing muscles as is here supposed, and that abduction of the eye is attended with as little effort as either its elevation or depression. There is then no such irresistible tendency to associate action between the branches of the third nerve supplied to the internal recti muscles. Both internal recti muscles may be made to act at the same time, and thus to produce a con- vergence of the optic axes; and this being an unnatural position of the eyes is attended with a considerable and a painful effort, each inter- nal rectus having to overcome the external rectus of the same eye, which has a tendency to consentaneous action with the external rectus of the other eye. That the external rectus must have the advantage in any struggle between it and the internal rectus is evident from the greater thickness and consequent strength of the former muscle. The only muscles supplied by the third nerve in which this tendency to con- sentaneous action is irresistible, are the superior and inferior recti of both eyes; we cannot pos- sibly raise one eye without at the same time raising the other, nor can we depress one eye without a corresponding movement of the other. Then, as we have seen, there is no tendency to