882 PAR VAGUM. of the lungs and stomach, and hence its appel- lation of pneumo-gastric. The nervus vagus arises by several filaments, generally from six to ten,from the restiform body of the medulla oblongata, parallel to and a little posterior to the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, and from a line to a line and a half distant from the posterior edge of the olivary body. Thearciform band of superficial filaments passing between the anterior pyramidal and res- tiform bodies cross among the lower filaments of this nerve. The filaments of the vagus are attached to the restiform body in a vertical, straight, and thin band of from three to four lines in length, the upper end of which is sepa- rated from the lower edge of the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve by a few small bloodvessels only. The upper half of these filaments of the vagus are at'their origin closely approximated, so that the lower edge of the one above is in contact with the upper edge of the one below, while the lower filaments, especially the two last, are considerably more distant from each other. The lowest filament is placed only a little above and in the same line with the uppermost filament of the spinal accessory, and it is fre- quently difficult to determine where the fila- ments of the accessory begin, and where those of the vagus end. From this origin each vagus proceeds forwards and outwards between the lower surface of the lateral lobe of the cerebel- lum and that portion of the dura mater cover- ing the basilar process of the occipital bone, to reach the foramen lacerum posterius, through the anterior part of which opening it escapes from the interior of the cranium. In this part of its course it frequently anastomoses with the glosso-pharyngeal, and its filaments be- come more subdivided, but at the same time more closely aggregated, so that it is thicker and narrower. On reaching the foramen lace- rum posterius it enters a sheath or canal in the dura mater, anterior and a little internal to the commencement of the internal jugular vein, immediately anterior to the spinal accessory nerve, and posterior to the glosso-pharyngeal. As these three nerves enter the foramen lace- rum, they perforate the dura mater, the glosso- pharyngeal by a separate and distinct opening, the nervus vagus and spinal accessory by an opening common to both. Sometimes there is a small bridle of dura mater, at other times only a fold of the arachnoid separating the vagus and accessory at this part. At the lower part of the foramen lacerum the spinal acces- sory is closely applied to the posterior surface of the vagus. The dura mater is prolonged downwards into the foramen lacerum upon these three nerves in the form of two sheaths, one sheath surrounding the glosso-pharyngeal, and the other the vagus and accessory. From the proximity of these three nerves, as they pass through the foramen lacerum posterius, and from their intimate connection in some parts of their course and subsequent distribu- tion, they were long considered to form only a single nerve. As the vagus lies in the foramen lacerum it presents a greyish oblong swelling, resem- bling the ganglion on the posterior root of a spinal nerve (ganglion primum nervi vagi of Wutzer, ganglion radicis n. v. of Bendz, ganglion superius n. v., ganglion jugulare n.v.) This ganglionic enlargement begins immedi- ately after the nerve has entered the foramen lacerum, so that its upper edge may be some- times seen from within the cranium ; it is of an oval form, and it extends along the course of the nerve from a line and a half to two lines.* Mr. James Spencet has pointed out that a small filament belonging to the lower part of the vagus passes over the posterior surface of this ganglion without entering it, and joins itself to the superior filaments of the spinal accessory.| This fact, as we shall afterwards find, has a direct bearing upon the physiology of the nerve. A communicating filament passes between the ganglion superius of the vagus and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathe- tic, another between it and the ganglion petro- sum of the glosso-pharyngeal, (vide article Glosso-Pharvngeal,) and one or more be- tween it and the spinal accessory .ยง From the * Arnold (Der Kopftheil des vegetativen Ner- vensystems beim Menschen. S. 107) describes this ganglion as varying little in size, and as measuring a line and a half to a line and three quarters in breadth, a line to a line and a half in length, and three quarters to one line in thickness. He found a difference of about two lines between the mea- surement of the circumference of the ganglion and the trunk of the nerve immediately below, the for- mer generally measuring five and the latter three lines. Bischoff (Nervi Accessorii Willisii Anato- mia et Physiologia, 1832, p. 20) gives the same measurements as those of Arnold, from whom he has evidently copied them. Bendz (De Connexu inter Nervum Vagum et Accessorium Willisii, 1836, p. 17) describes it as a rounded ganglion, somewhat flattened, measuring about two lines in the antero- posterior diameter, and nearly two lines in the vertical direction. Valentin (Soemmerring's Vom Baue des Menschlichen Korpers, Hirn und Ner- venlehre. Vierter Band. 1841. S. 482) describes it as an oblong rounded swelling, somewhat flattened, and about from a line and three quarters to two and a half lines in length. t Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 153, 1842. \ Remak (Froriep's neue Notizen for 1837, No. 54) states that some of the filaments of the vagus do not pass through this superior ganglion of the vagus in the dog, cat, and rabbit; and Volk- mann (Midler's Archives, Heft v. 1840) confirms this observation of Remak on the dog ; and further mentions that the same enlargement exists in the sheep, -while in the calf all the filaments pass through the ganglion. The accuracy of such dis- sections, especially those made on the human spe- cies, and the physiological inferences deduced from them, have been called in question, (e.g. Hein in Mailer's Archives for 1844, p.336, and Bischoff, in the same work for 1833, p. 156), on the grounds that this anatomical arrangement is not constant, and besides that it is difficult to distinguish between the lower fibres of the root of the vagus and the upper fibres of the root of the nervus accessorius. ยง Bendz describes and delineates (De Connexu inter Nervum Vagum et Accessorium Willisii. Tab.i. Hannis, 1836) two small communicating filaments passing between the spinal accessory and the gan- glion jugulare of the vagus. Valentin (Sbemmer- ring Vom Baue des Menschlichen Korpers, Hirn und Nervenlehre. Vierter Band, 1841) describes a similar anastomosis. Arnold (Icones Nervorum