(Compauative Anatomy.) 611 NERVOUS SYSTEM. In the larva of Dyticus marginalis (fig. 347), the nervous system consists of a distinctly bilobate supra-cesophageal ganglion (a), from Ventral nervous cord of Dyticus marginalis (larva itate), magnified to about twice the natural size. a, bilobate supra-resophageal or cerebral gan- glion, b, nerves passing to the antennae, c, c, nerves passing to the eyes, d, infra-cesophageal ganglion, with the nerves passing to the maxilla, mandibles, and labium. e,e,e,e, thoracic and ab- dominal ganglia. f,f, nervous filaments passing to the caudal extremity of the larva. which are given off nerves to the antennas, and and the eyes (6, c), and of twelve abdominal ganglia, connected by longitudinal cords (c). The difference in distance of these ganglia is very remarkable, and worthy of mention. The first, or true infra-cesophageal ganglion (d) is situated as usual; between this and the second a long space intervenes, and the connecting cords are firm and distinct; the spaces between the second, third, fourth, and fifth are about equal, and not more than one-third the distance between the first described; the remaining seven are so closely approximated as to touch each other: from the terminal ganglion are given off long and minute nervous filaments, which may be traced down to the caudal extremity of the larva. In the Hymenoptera a very great concen- tration and increased developement of the ner- vous system is met with. In the Bee the cerebral ganglion is of a large proportional size; from its anterior part are given off two nerves, which pass forward to the base of the antenna, and have their origin marked by a very distinct conical-shaped ganglionic enlargement. In the thorax all the ganglia coalesce into one central large ganglion, and a smaller one closely at- tached to it, giving off lateral nervous filaments; in the abdomen there are five smaller ganglia; they are connected by commissures, as in the preceding classes, the double nature of which is distinctly seen by a lens : the first abdominal ganglion is situated at some distance from the thoracic ganglion ; the second and third are much nearer together, but the fourth and fifth are quite closely approximated : from them are given off radiating nerves. The most highly developed nervous system in the Articulata occurs in the Lepidoptera, the characters of which we shall next describe. In the larva of the Saturnia pavonia minor (Jig. 348), the nervous system consists of a bilobate supra-cesophageal or cerebral ganglion, and of twelve sub-cesophageal or abdominal ganglia-(a), united by longitudinal fissures. The cerebral ganglion consists of two closely approximated oblong ovate medullary masses, giving off nerves supplying the eyes and the antenna3, and a pair of nerves from its anterior and lower parts, which takes a direction for- wards, and which meeting inwards and joining, forms a ganglion : from the posterior surface of this ganglion arises a nerve (the recurrent of Lyonnet) which passes backward beneath the cerebral ganglion along the oesophagus, and gives off filaments to it and the stomach.* The existence of this nerve, and particularly its si- tuation, is of very high importance, according to the laws of philosophical anatomy: the branching filaments it sends off form nervous rings, which are important in being open be- low and not above, and in developing a gan- glion on the dorsal aspect of the animal; this, we shall find presently, leads by strong ana- logies to the Vertebrata. The cerebral gan- glion is supported or produced by two lateral nervous filaments, which, having their origin at its posterior part, pass downwards by the sides of the oesophagus, at the inferior part of which they converge, and are connected with the first sub-cesophageal ganglion ; in this way a nervous collar or ring is formed, which en- circles the oesophagus. This first inferior gan- glion (/>) is of rather a quadrilateral form; it gives off a pair of nerves to the maxillae and to the labium (c, d), which have their origin within the termination of the lateral commis- sures just described. The second ganglion is longitudinally continuous with the first; from them are given off lateral nerves. The (supposed) motor and sensitiveconnectingnervous columns are widely separate between the second and third ganglia, and between the third and fourth ; between all the others they are very closely * This nerve is considered by Mr. Newport as the analogue of the par vagum. 2 it 2