278 MARSUPIALIA. are thirteen dorsal vertebra and thirteen pairs of ribs.* In the Koala the length of the spine of the first dorsal hardly exceeds that of the last cervical, but in all other Marsupials the diffe- rence is considerable, the first dorsal spine being much longer: those of the remaining dorsal vertebrae progressively diminish in length and increase in breadth and thickness. They slope backwards towards the centre of motion, which in Mauge's Dasyure is shown to be at the ninth dorsal vertebra, by the vertically of its spine, towards which both the preceding and succeeding spines incline. In the Peru- meles the centre of motion is at the eleventh dorsal vertebra, in the Potoroo and Kangaroo at the twelfth, in the Petaurists at the thir- teenth vertebra. In the Phalangers, Opossum, Koala, and Wombat the flexibility of the spine is much diminished, and the centre of motion is not defined by the convergence of the spinous process towards a single vertebra, but they all incline slightly backwards. The lumbar vertebrae are four in number in the Wombat, seven in the Petaurists, and six in other Marsupialia; the total number of true vertebrae being thus the same in all the genera.f The pressure which the trunk of the Wombat must occasionally have to resist in its extensive subterranean burrows, is probably the condition of the development of the additional pairs of ribs in that species. The anterior oblique processes, which begin to increase in length in the three posterior dorsal vertebrae, attain a great size in the lumbar ver- tebrae, and are locked into the interspace of the posterior oblique processes which are double on each side, except in the Perameles, and in the last lumbar vertebrae of all the other genera. The transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae progressively increase in length as the verte- brae approach the sacrum ; they are most deve- loped in the Wombat, where they are directed obliquely forwards. In the Kangaroos, Poto- roos, and Perameles, they are curved forwards and obliquely downwards. The length of these and of the anterior oblique processes is rela- tively least in the Petaurists, Phalangers, and Opossums. Sacrum..—The numberof vertebrae succeeding the lumbar which are anchylosed together in the sacral region of the spine, amounts in the Wombat to seven (fig. 102), but if we regard those vertebrae only as sacral which join the ossa innominata, then there are but three. In the Phalangers there are generally two sacral ver- tebrae, but in the Phalangista Cookii the last lumbar assumes the character of the sacral ver- * Cuvier assigns only twelve dorsal vertebras to the Kangaroo Rat, but in two different species of Hypsiprymnus in the Mus. Coll. Surgeons, there are thirteen dorsal and six lumbar vertebras, and I observed the same number in the skeletons of Hypsiprymnus ursimis and dorcocephulus in the Leyden Museum. Pander and D'Alton figure thirteen dorsal vertebras in the Hypsiprymnus mu~ rinus. t In Phal. Cookii the sixth lumbar vertebra is joined by a part of its transverse processes to the ossa innominata. tebrae both by anchylosis and partial junction with the ossa innominata. Fig. 102. Pelvis of the Wombat. In the Kangaroos and Potoroos the impetus of the powerful hinder extremities is transferred to two anchylosed vertebrae. In the Perameles there is only a single sacral vertebra, the spine of which is shorter and thicker than those of the lumbar vertebrae, and is turned in the contrary direction, viz. backwards. In the Myrmecobius there are four sacral vertebrae by anchylosis, two of which join the ilia. In Mauge's Dasyure, two sacral ver- tebrae are anchylosed, but it is to the expanded transverse processes of the anterior one only that the ossa innominata are joined. The same kind of union exists in the Viverrine Da- syure, but three vertebrae are anchylosed to- gether in this species. In the Phalangers and Petaurists there are two sacral vertebrae. In Petaurus macrurus three are anchylosed together, though only two join the ilium. In the Wombat (fig. 102) the transverse pro- cesses of the numerous anchylosed vertebrae are remarkable for their length and flatness, those of the first four are directed outwards and are confluent at their extremities; the remaining ones are turned in a slight degree backwards, and very nearly reach the tuberosities of the ischia, behind which they gradually diminish in size and disappear in the three last caudal vertebrae. The transition from the sacral to the caudal vertebrae is very obscure in the Wombat. If we limit the sacral to the three which join the ilium, then there remain twelve vertebrae for the tail. The spinal canal is complete in all but the last three, which consist only of the body. There are no inferior spines, and as only the six posterior vertebrae, which progressively diminish in length, extend beyond the posterior aperture of the pelvis, the tail is scarcely visible in the living animal. In the Koala (fig. 109) the tail is also very short. In the Chaeropus it seems to be wanting. In one species of Perameles I find eighteen caudal vertebrae; in