626 NERVOUS SYSTEM. portional length is as 100: 256. In the sheep, as 100: 232. In the deer, as 100 : 233. The lateral lobes are very evident in all, and con- volutions are observable on the external sur- face, particularly in the horse. In the cat its proportional length is as 100 : 200 ; in the stoat as 100 : 228. The external convolutions in both are numerous: in the monkey (fig. 359, /), the proportional length is as 100 : 305 ; the laminae are numerous and small, thus ap- proaching very much the characters of the same part in man. The following is a table, shewing the actual and relative lengths of the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum in the Mammalia:— Animal. Length of Cerebral Hemisphere Length of Cerebellum. Proportions. Bat 2-£ lines. 2 lines. As 100 : 125 Rabbit . Hi — 7 — . . 100 : 207 Rat.... 7i — Li - .. 100 : 166 Mouse . 4" — n - .. 100 : 160 Horse.. 64 — 25 — .. 100 : 256 Sheep .. 36 — 151 _ .. 100 : 232 Deer... 42 — 18 — .. 100 : 233 Stoat... 8 — 31 - .. 100 : 228 Cat.... 13 — 9 — .. 100 : 200 Monkey 30i — 10 — .. 100 : 305 On cutting into its substance in many of these animals, the appearance of the arbor vitas is more or less distinct, similar to the human cerebellum. On its inferior surface is situated its great commissure, the pons Varolii, which first makes its appearance in this class of ani- mals, and, with the exception of the transverse fibres forming it being thinner and fewer in number, particularly in those lower orders of Mammalia where the cerebral hemispheres were small, it presents but little differences from the same part in the human adult brain. This latter remark will equally apply to the fourth ventricle, which has been an object of consi- derable interest, and which, from being at first an open exposed cavity, is now shut in and concealed. [On the peculiarities of the brains of the implacental class of Mammalia, see the ar- ticles Marsupialia and Monotkemata.] On reviewing these statements of the nervous system in the Mammalia, we observe that the brain now preponderates greatly in bulk over the spinal marrow; this latter is also shorter, and terminates by a true cauda equina. The Jirst cerebral mass has now acquired its maxi- mum of developement as regards size ; the two portions of which it is composed are united by a large commissure; their exterior surface is convoluted. The second cerebral mass is divi- ded into two pairs of ganglia, in which the cavities are obliterated. The third cerebral mass has lateral hemispheres developed, striae and convolutions on their exterior surface, and an important commissure, the pons Varolii, on its inferior surface. Having thus completed the investigations proposed at the commencement of this paper, (Comparative Anatomy.) it may not in conclusion be without interest and utility to take a very rapid review of the developement of the nervous system in the five large groups of animals in the system of ar- rangement, as follows:— a. The nervous system (perhaps) first exists in a molecular form ; that is, it is made up of globules dispersed throughout the homogeneous texture of the animal, as in the Acrita, the lower Entozoa, &c. b. This nervous matter arranged in a lon- gitudinal direction forms filaments. The di- rection which they assume is that of a ray, or nerve, and a central point, or ganglion; these latter communicate with each other by commis- sures, which unite them in the form of a ring. This ring is situated around the oral orifice of the animal; it takes the name of the primary nervous ring; and from it issue filaments in a radiated manner, as in the Echinodermata. c. This oral primary nervous ring becomes more complicated in itself; ganglions are first developed on its lateral and inferior portions, from which nerves pass off in a longitudinal direction, as in the lower Mollusca, and secondly on its superior surface, as in the higher animals of this class: this superior ganglion is at first proportionally small, as in the Gasteropoda, but afterwards large, and sometimes very large, as in the Cephalopoda. It is the analogue of the tuberculaquadrigemina of the higher animals. d. This primary nervous ring, in its most highly developed form, now becomes repeated several times in the body of the animal; first, in an undetermined number, as in the Helmiu- thoid Articulata; secondly, in a determined number, as in the Entomoid Articulata. These nervous rings are united by longitudinal com- missures, and the most anterior one always has a highly developed ganglion on its superior surface. The uniting commissures possess two distinct nervous tracts; respiratory and sympathetic nerves exist, as in the Insecta. e. These primary nervous rings are now become ganglia (brain) ; the uniting commis- sures are become primary nervous rings (spinal marrow). First, the ganglia and their commis- sures are nearly equally developed, and are horizontal, as in the lower Vertebrata ; secondly, the ganglionic formation predominates, and its direction, with regard to the commissures, be- comes more that of a right angle, as in the higher Vertebrata; thirdly, the predominance of the ganglionic formation is very much in- creased, and its relative direction is that of a complete right angle, as in the human species. (John Anderson.) NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human ana- tomy).—A nervous centre may be defined as a mass composed of grey and white nervous matter with which nerves are intimately con- nected. In a physiological point of view it is a centre of nervous action, as nerves appear to conduct to it as well as from it. The nervous centres in the human subject are the ganglions, the spinal cord, and the brain.