826 OSSEOUS SYSTEM (Comp. Anat.) character and entering into the formation of very numerous and diversified sets of organs, which have in reality no alliance with each other except that of mere juxta-position. One compartment in Man, exceeding in size all the rest put together, but in the lower Ver- tebrata forming but a very small part of the whole, is obviously merely a continuation of the vertebral canal lodging the most anterior ganglia of the cerebro-spinal axis, which it arches over and defends, at the same time affording passage to the nerves that emanate therefrom, being essentially itself composed of vertebra, although, in consequence of the preponderating size of the brain over the spinal ganglia behind, considerable distortion is re- quired, a distortion which in human beings is necessarily carried to such an extent that the normal construction of this part of the skeleton is in man almost wholly indistinguishable. As the vertebral column forms the centre and sup- port of the trunk and limbs, so does the cranial portion of the skull sustain various additional apparatus, which may be enumerated as follows. 1. The auditory apparatus most frequently en- closed in aspecial bone, the petrous, and interca- lated among the proper bones of the cranium. 2. The temporal apparatus, which in man is confused into a single irregular mass that forms part of what the human osteologist calls the temporal bone, but which in the lower Ver- tebrata, such as the Reptilia, consists of several important pieces, which being withdrawn from the composition of the cranial box are employed for the articulation of the lower jaw, and more- over in the osseous Fishes sustain the bones of the gill-covers. (Nos. 12, 13, 23, 26, 27.*) * The following table, showing the numbers by which the corresponding bones appertaining to the cephalic portion of the skeleton are indicated in all the figures, is given to facilitate comparison be- tween them. 3. The pterygo-palatine apparatus repre- sented in the human skeleton by the internal pterygoid processes of the (so-called) sphenoid and the ossa palati. These form the framework of the fauces, f Nos. 25, 22.) 4. The olfactory apparatus, into the compo- sition of which enter the (Ethmoid, over which the nerve of smell is more particularly dis- tributed, together with the nasal, the superior maxillary, the vomer, the inferior turbinated bones, and others more remotely connected with the formation of the cavity of the nose. ( Nos. 3, 20, 16, 18, d.) 5. The orbito-lachrymal apparatus, or the bones which assist in forming the orbital cavity and lachrymal passages. 6. The superior maxilla formed of the max- illary and intermaxillary bones. (Nos. 18,17.) 7. The inferior maxilla, which in the lower animals consists of several pieces, to be more fully noticed hereafter. Before proceeding to describe the individual bones that enter into the composition of the cranial portion of the skull, in order to lay before the reader the comparative structure of that important portion of the skeleton, it will be 1 Frontal. 18 Maxillary. 2 Anterior frontal. 20 Praenasal. " 3 Nasal (osthmoid.Cuv.J 22 Palatine 4 Posterior frontal 5 Inferior occipital. 6 Sphenoid. 7 Parietal. 8 Supra-occipital. 9 External occipital. 10 Lateral occipital. 11 Alar. 12 Mastoid. 13 Petro-temporal. 14 Ingrassial. 15 (Ethmoid (anterior sphenoid, Cuv.J 16 Vomer. 17 Intermaxillary. 23 Masto-temporal. 24 Transverse. 25 Internal pterygoid. 26 Zygomatic. 27 Squamo-temporal. 28 Opercular. 29 Styloid. 30 Praeopercular. 31 Symplectic. 32 Subopercular. 33 Interopercular. 34 Dental. 35 Supra-angular. 36 Angular. g Suborbital plates. Fie 436. Skull of the Cod ( Gadus MorhuaJ.