315 MARSUPIAL! A. berculate, is again manifested in this part of its structure. The expanded orifices of the fallopian tubes present a greater development than in the Kangaroo, and are still more re- markable for the number, size, and variety of the fimbriated processes and folds which aug- ment the internal vascular surface of the pavi- lion. In both the Wombat and Kangaroo the lining membrane of the contracted portion of the oviduct is similarly complicated by minute and delicate reticular plications and processes. The oviducts are shorter and less sinuous in their course in the uniparous Kangaroo, fig. 138, 6, than in the muciparous Opossums (b, fig. 139). In the above described essential parts of the female generative apparatus the mammalian type of structure is closely adhered to; the de- viations most characteristic of the implacental group begin to manifest themselves in the re- maining parts, and here under so irregular and complicated a form as to require a brief review of the analogous structures in other groups of animals for their intelligibility. The variations of structure which the female generative organs present in the oviparous classes of Vertebrata are fewer and of less de- gree than those observable in the different orders and genera of the Mammalia. The most pre- vailing characteristic of the oviparous type of the female generative organs is the absence of union in the mesial plane of the lateral efferent tubes, which consequently continue separate to their terminations in the excretory outlet. In Birds the genital apparatus is characterised by the higher, and, in the female, as far as function is concerned, exclusive development of the left moiety ; and the uniformity in the condition of the excluded ovum in this class corresponds with the sameness which prevails in the structure of the organs concerned in its production. In Reptiles the ovaries and efferent parts of the genital system are equally developed, or nearly so, on both sides. But although a con- siderable uniformity of structure is found to pre- vail in this system throughout the different orders of the class, the widest difference obtains both in the place of development of the ovum and the condition in which it quits its mother. No one, e. g , could have predicated from a comparison of the structure of the ovaries and oviducts in poisonous and innocuous Serpents that any difference existed in the structure and development of the ovum, much less that the for- merwere ovo-viviparous but the latter oviparous; or, from a comparison of the same organs in Lacerta croceu and Lacerta agilis, that a like difference should exist in the generative eco- nomy of species so nearly allied as for a long time to have been confounded together by naturalists. In Mammalia, however, in most of the orders of which the connexion of the ovum with the uterus is so much more intimate than in the preceding classes, the variations in the structure of the female sexual organs are more numerous and remarkable; and though it be admitted that the nature of the foetal coverings and ap- pendages results from the original constitution and properties of the ovum, yet the modifica- tions of the uterus have evidently, in this class, a subordinate relation to those differences. In tracing the female generative apparatus from the human subject through the different orders of Mammalia, we find that it approxi- mates to the oviparous type of structure in two ways, viz., by an obliteration of the os tinca% which is the characteristic limit between the uterus and the vagina in this class ; and by a gradually increasing division of the uterus and vagina until they become two separate tubes throughout their entire extent. In no mammiferous genus do the female organs present that character of unity or con- centration, with distinction of parts, which is found in the human subject; for in the lower orders, besides the more essential differences above-mentioned, there is always an elongation of the uterus, with a thinning of its parietes, and in general a blending together of the urethral and sexual passages. This latter deviation com- mences in the Simia, and in the Lemures the angles of the uterus begin to elongate and to assume the form of ccrnua. The mesial cleft increases, and the cornua preponderate in the Carnivora, the Cetacea, the Ruminantia, and the Pachydermata; but it is in the Kodentia, which present affinities to Birds in other parts of their structure, that the uterus is first found completely divided into two lateral halves. This structure is not, indeed, uniformly met with in all the genera of the order; but besides the Hare and Rabbit, in which the double uterus is allowed to exist by De Graaf and Cuvier, a similarly complete division of the organ obtains in the genera Sciurus, Arctomys, Spulax, Bathyergus, Echimys, Eretizon, (F. Cuvier) and Hydrocharus ; while in the genera Mas, Cavia, Calogenys, and Dasi/procta, a portion of the true uterus still remains undi- vided ; though this part, to which alone the term ' corpus uteri' can be properly applied, is ex- tremely small or rudimental. Nevertheless, although the corpus uteri exists in these genera, the true vagina is as remarkable for its length and capacity as in those in which the corpus uteri has ceased to exist. Hitherto the vagina has presented itself un- der the form of a simple undivided canal, communicating with the urethro-sexual passage, at least after impregnation by a single aperture. But it is a remarkable and interesting fact that in the Sloth, in the Mare and Ass, in the Pig, and in the Cow, the vagina in the virgin state com- municates with the urethro-sexual passage by a double aperture, in consequence of being traversed by a narrow vertical septum or chord. This septum has been described by veterinary authors as a hymen in the Mare ; the analo- gous part in the human subject also occasionally presents the same structure, and has even been observed in some cases to extend as a mesial partition inwards towards the uterus. In the MursupiaUa, where from the small size of the fcetus at birth a similar conformation is permitted to remain as a permanent structure, the vagina is in some genera wholly, and in