PERINEUM. 927 in front of the anus, and extend in an oblique direction backwards and outwards to the point midway between the tuber ischii and the orifice of the gut. In the bilateral operation the first incision is semilunar, the cornua placed at either side between the tuber ischii and the anus, and equidistant from these points respec- tively, the centre situated about three quarters of an inch in front of the anal aperture, and the concavity of the curve directed backwards. For convenience the operator in general begins this incision on the right side of the perineum. On removing the integuments the anatomist brings into view anteriorly the superficial fascia of the perineum, surrounding the anus the cuta- neous sphincter, and at either side of the gut a large quantity of adipose cellular tissue, which fills up in great measure the interval between the intestine and the tuber ischii. If the dis- section have been carefully conducted, some ner- vous twigs are also visible near the rami of the ischium and pubis ; they are mostly cutaneous and derived from the sciatic branch of the lesser sciatic nerve (the " perineal cutaneous " of many authors, the " long inferior pudendal " of Soemmering) in its course to the scrotum and root of the penis. This nerve or its branches are always superficial and liable to injury in many operations performed upon the perineum. The superficial fascia.—The superficial peri- neal fascia has been by some anatomists de- scribed as two membranes essentially separate and distinct from each other, that nearer to the surface being called the " subcutaneous cellular membrane" of the region, and the deeper of the two being designated " the superficial fascia of the perineum." To the writer this description appears unnecessarily minute, for in fat subjects it is exceedingly difficult to effect such a sepa- ration, and under the most favourable circum- stances thedissection in question is too artificial; with equal propriety might the superficial fascia of the abdomen be divided into layers, for like that in the perineum, its cutaneous surface is cellular and often loaded with fat, whilst its deeper surface assumes very much an aponeu- rotic appearance. The superficial perineal fascia is a cellulo- aponeurotic expansion interposed between the integuments and the principal muscles, &c. of the region, (to this, however, the superficial sphincter muscle, which is absolutely subcuta- neous, forms an exception ;) in the anterior or genito-urinary division of the perineum it is of very considerable thickness, being mostly cellu- lar and fatly superficially, and becoming more dense the deeper the dissection is carried ; nu- merous fibrous bands are interwoven with this expansion, and appear more and more evident the farther from the integument it is examined, so that at length, just like the superficial fascia of the abdomen, it assumes very much the cha- racters of fibrous membrane. The varieties in density which this fascia presents in different subjects are nearly endless ; in corpulent per- sons its grossness is sometimes excessive, and when condensed by inflammation its depth be- comes extreme : this explains the surprising distance from the surface to which the surgeon usually cuts in liberating the matter of a peri- neal abscess, and shews the lithotomist the ne- cessity of duly estimating the thickness of this structure before he commences his operation. Traced forwards the superficial fascia becomes gradually thinner until at length it degenerates into cellular membrane continuous almost with- out line of demarcation with the dartos, and as it approaches the scrotum it becomes loose in texture, whilst its cells communicate freely with each other and contain little adipose substance, if any. Followed laterally it seems at first sight to merge gradually into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the thigh, but when examined from beneath by being raised in a flap from the middle line outwards, it is found to adhere by strong tendinous attachments to the edge of the pelvis, and so powerful is this adhesion that all attempts to pass the handle of a scalpel out- wards between the fascia and the rami of the pubis and ischium uniformly fail. In the posterior or anal division of the peri- neum the superficial fascia is little more than a cellular web, appearing, however, somewhat denser in the space between the tuber ischii and the anus; here its continuity with the subcutaneous cellular membrane of the gluteal region may be easily demonstrated, and it also dips in deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, where its cells become inordinately loaded with fat. If the superficial fascia be carefully raised from before backwards, a deep process of this membrane may be seen to form a partition between the genito-urinary and the anal divi- sions of the perineum. The process referred to constitutes a septum, which, after dipping in deeply behind the transversi perinei muscles, becomes identified with the base of the trian- gular ligament of the urethra; to demonstrate this connection, however, requires some nicety of manipulation and a suitable subject. In raising this fascia the anatomist cannot fail to observe that its adhesion to the subjacent parts is everywhere extremely loose, except in the situations already specified. The peculiar structure and the connections of the superficial perineal fascia afford a satisfac- tory explanation of the course which urinary effusions generally take in the living subject. When urine escapes into the perineum in con- sequence of rupture or ulceration of the ure- thra, provided the solution of continuity be seated superficial to the triangular ligament of the urethra, the liquid makes its way forwards to the scrotum, and after distending that part it proceeds upwards to the abdominal parietes, occasionally reaching the umbilicus, or even attaining to a higher level. The effusion rarely passes downwards along the thighs, or back- wards to the neighbourhood of the anus, and its progress to the surface in the perineum is invariably tedious. In such cases the close adhesion of the superficial fascia to the rami of the pubis and ischium prevents the urine from reaching the thigh; the connection of the superficial fascia to the base of the triangular ligament of the urethra opposes its progress