PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722m great centre of sensation, whether for mental or physical actions. The pyramidal bodies evidently connect the grey matter of the cord (its anterior horns ?) with the corpora striata; and not only these, but also the intervening masses of vesicular matter, such as the locus niger, and the vesi- cular matter of the pons, and of the olivary columns; and, supposing the corpora striata to be centres of volition in intimate connection with the convoluted surface of the brain by their numerous radiations, all these several parts are linked together for the common pur- poses of volition, and constitute a great centre of voluntary actions, amenable to the influence of the will at every point. It has been pretty generally admitted by anatomists, that both the corpora striata and the anterior pyramids are concerned in volun- tary movements. The motor tracts of Bell were regarded by that physiologist as passing upwards from the anterior columns of the cord to the corpora striata, and, after traversing those bodies, as diverging into the fibrous mat- ter of the hemispheres; and the fact of the origin of certain motor nerves, in connection with those fibres, was considered to be very favourable to this view. The decussation of the pyramids, likewise, so illustrative of the cross influence of the brain in lesions sufficient to produce paralysis, has been looked upon as an additional indication of the motor influence of these parts. The invariable occurrence of paralysis as the result of lesion, even of slight amount, in the corpora striata, must be regarded as a fact of strong import in reference to the motor func- tions of these bodies. Nor is this fact at all incompatible with the statements made by all experimenters, that simple section of the corpus striatum does not occasion either marked paralysis or convulsion ; and that in cutting away the different segments of the brain, beginning with the hemispheres, convulsions are not excited until the region of the mesocephale is involved. The influence of the corpora striata is not upon the nerves di- rectly, but upon the segments of the medulla oblongata or of the spinal cord, and, through them, upon the nerves which arise from them. Were the nerve-fibres continued up into the corpora striata, according to an opinion which has been long prevalent, there would be no good reason for supposing that they should lose in the brain that excitability to physical stimuli which they are known to possess in the spinal cord, and at their peripheral distribution. The latest experiments of this kind, which are those of Longet and Lafargue, agree in the fol- lowing result, which is not at variance with that obtained by Flourens. The animals remain immoveable after the removal of the corpora striata, whether those bodies have been removed alone or in conjunction with the hemispheres; nor do they show any disposition to move, un- less strongly excited by some external stimu- lus. None of these observers had noticed the irresistible tendency to rapid propulsion, which was described by Magendie. Removal of the corpus striatum of one side caused weakness of the opposite side. In order to form a due estimate of these ex- periments, it must be borne in mind, that the effects of simple excision of either corpus striatum would be very different from those of disease of it. The depressing effects of the latter would be absent, at least, until some alteration in the process of nutrition had been set up in the mutilated parts. Simple excision of the centre of volition, and inflammatory dis- ease of its substance, or an apoplectic clot, must produce essentially different effects;— the one simply cuts off the influence of the will, the other affects the vital action, and, con- sequently, the vital power of the centre, and of the commissural fibres connected with it. Judging from structure only, it might be conjectured that the locus niger, that remark- able mass of vesicular matter which separates the anterior and posterior planes of each cms cerebri, exerts a motor influence. It resembles in structure the anterior horns of the grey matter of the cord, and contains numerous large caudate vesicles with very abundant pig- ment, and is the immediate centre of implanta- tion of a very important motor nerve, the third pair, which regulates the movements of nearly all the muscles of the eyeball. Optic tfialami.—The same line of argument which leads us to view the corpora striata as the more essential parts of the nervous appa- ratus which controul direct voluntary move- ments, suggests that the optic thalami may be viewed as the principal foci of sensibility, without which the mind could not perceive the physical change resulting from a sensitive im- pression. The principal anatomical fact which favours this conclusion is the connection of all the nerves of pure sense, more or less directly, with the optic thalami or with the olivary co- lumns. The olfactory processes, which appa- rently have no connection with them, form, no doubt, through the fornix, such an union with them, as readily to bring them within the in- fluence of the olfactory nerves. According to this sense of its office we must regard the optic thalami as the upper and chief portions of an extended centre, of which the lower part is formed by the olivary columns, which we have already referred to as taking- part in the mechanism of sensation. The con- tinuity of the olivary columns with the optic thalami justifies this view : nor is it invalidated by the fact, that some of the nerves which arise from the medulla oblongata are motor in function; for Stilling's researches render it probable that these fibres have their origin in special accumulations of vesicular matter, which contain caudate vesicles of the same kind as those found in the anterior horns of the grey matter of the cord. The results which experiments have yielded add little that is positive to our knowledge of the functions of these bodies. Flourens found that neither pricking nor cutting away the optic thalami by successive slices occasioned any muscular agitation, nor did it even induce con-