934 PERINEUM. replace one or more of the terminating branches of the internal pudic, and when present, always continues on to form the dorsal artery of the penis; it occasionally gives off the artery of the bulb and the artery of the crus penis, or this latter branch alone, during its progress. When the irregularity now described occurs, the pudic artery of the same side suffers a corresponding diminution in size, and stops short in the perineum after furnishing a variable number of branches. The irregular trunk here alluded to springs in general from the internal iliac, or from one of the branches of that artery; but from whatever source derived, it runs alon» the side of the prostate gland to the neighbourhood of the pubis, where it mounts above the urethra and passes beneath the sym- physis, in company with the dorsal veins of the penis. This irregular vessel runs nearly in the line of the incision in lithotomy, whether per- formed according to the lateral or the bilateral methods, and pursuing such an unfortunate course it can rarely escape the knife during these operations. Examples of this irregularity have been recorded by Blandin, Velpeau, Shaw, and others. The preceding description of the deep com- partment of the perineum would be imperfect without some application of the anatomy of that space to practical purposes, particularly as the third incision in the lateral operation of litho- tomy is performed within its limits. In this step of the operation the surgeon, in order to make way for the calculus, cuts through the remainder of the membranous portion of the urethra, together with the left lobe of the prostate gland, and in doing so he must also divide Wilson's muscle and some fibres of the levator ani. From the many important parts which surround the prostate, this incision is beset with difficulties. The rectum is much endangered; this arises from its proximity to the under surface of the prostate gland, and from its occasional dilatation. To insure the safety of the gut it should be emptied by the administration of an enema previous to the operation; the handle of the staff should also be depressed before the third incision com- mences, and the edge of the knife should be duly lateralised ; without the latter precaution all other expedients to save the intestine are useless. The depression of the handle of the staff raises the beak of the instrument behind the pubis, and causes the knife to enter the bladder as much as possible in the axis of that viscus, a line of incision best calculated to protect the bowel; and by performing this manoeuvre at the proper moment the operator raises the prostatic portion of the urethra from the rectum, thus contributing still further to the security of the gut. Hemorrhage is the most formidable conse- quence of the third incision in lithotomy. The pudic artery incurs a certain amount of risk when the operator, in his anxiety to save the rectum, directs the edge of the knife too much outwards, but from a former part of this article the reader may perceive that such an accident is of rare occurrence. The irregular artery which runs along the prostate is much more to be dreaded, for the surgeon can neither foresee nor avoid the danger, and from its position all attempts to tie the vessel when wounded must ne- cessarily prove fruitless, whilst the absence of a resisting surface beneath the bleeding orifice pre- vents the plug from commanding the hemorrhage. A profuse loss of blood from the vesico- prostatic plexus of veins may be also encoun- tered, and is most likely to happen in elderly persons. The largest of these vessels are situ- ated at the neck and along the base of the bladder, so that the surgeon guards against such a casualty most effectually by confining his incisions as much as possible within the limits of the prostate gland. The French writers consider phlebitis and diffuse cellular inflammations to be the most common causes of death after lithotomy, and they attiibute both these fatal affections to an incision carried beyond the base of the prostate. They maintain that the cut surface of the gland is sufficiently tough and resisting to bear the urine with impunity, and that the lax cellular membrane around the neck of the bladder, and the veins in the same locality, speedily inflame when irritated by that secretion. In Paris the bilateral operation is therefore mostly practised, as it gives the largest incision prac- ticable within the circumference of the prostate gland, at the same time that it protects the common ejaculatory ducts, the rectum, and the pudic artery from injury. In these countries the lateral method is still generally preferred, whether it be that British surgeons usually find a section of one side of the prostate sufficient for the extraction of the calculus, or that a moderate division of the neck of the bladder in their hands seldom leads to the above described unfortunate results, particularly if a ready outlet for the urine be ensured by a free section of the superficial structures. In the bilateral operation a double risk of wounding the irregular dorsal arteries of the penis must be incurred ; and should the blades of the lithotome, in consequence of a miscon- ception of the width of the prostate gland or of the transverse measurement of the bony boundary of the perineum, be too widely di- varicated, a twofold liability to venous hemor- rhage and to injury of the rectum will be the result, and the pudic vessels on both sides will be endangered,—accidents which demand due consideration from the practitioner in weighing the relative merits of these rival operations. In dividing the prostate gland the knife is apt to slip from the groove of the staff by reason of the great toughness of the capsule, and to pass between the rectum and bladder, causing extreme mischief. When this part of the operation is performed with the simple knife, the lithotomist guards against such an unpleasant accident by incising the membra- nous portion of the urethra freely before he commences the third incision, and by depress- ing the handle of the knife considerably as he pushes its blade onwards to the bladder; by the former precaution he makes certain that the