PACflYDERMATA. 874 the urine from entering the womb, because the urethra opens into the vagina so near the os tinea that the urine flows more readily towards the womb than towards the vulva, the angular bend in the vagina forming an obstacle to its passage in the latter direction. The body of the uterus was oval, and mea- sured a foot and a half in length by ten inches in breadth. The cornua uteri were each two feet eight inches in length, and four inches and a half in circumference: their openings into the womb were surrounded by a prolongation of their lining membrane, hanging into the uterus like a fringe or valve, so that any thing which had passed from the cornua into the uterus could not return again from the uterus into the cornua, which latter were united to each other for about a foot from the body of the uterus. The Fallopian tubes were only two inches in length, and the ovaria of very small size. In the Sow the vulva occupies its usual situation between the pubic symphysis and the anus. The glans clitoridis is bent upon itself and terminates in a point resembling the penis of the Boar in miniature. The walls of the vagina are much plicated for an extent of two or three inches from the orifice of the womb, and in this part its canal is considerably wider than near the entrance of the vulva. The os tinea is only indicated by a slightly elevated margin. The cornua uteri are of great length, being convoluted much after the manner of the small intestines. The fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes are only connected at one point with the ovaria, the rest being loose and floating. The ov ries in the common Sow are of very irregular contour, the Graafian vesicles (as big as peas) standing prominently out from their surface. In the Elephant the mammas are pectoral and only two in number, one situated on each side of the breast. The Rhinoceros, the Tapir, and the Hippo- potamus have likewise only two mammae, but they are placed beneath the belly. In the Hog there are generally ten nipples both in the male and female; these are situated beneath the belly, five on each side, but some- times there are five on one side and six on the other, and occasionally six on both sides. Of the Nervous Si/stem. Brain.—The brain in the Pachydermata is largely developed, and the convolutions upon its surface comparatively small, though very numerous and separated from each other by deep sulci. In the Elephant the absolute size of the organ exceeds that of man, but is very small in proportion to the bulk of the animal, especially when we take into the ac- count the great size and intellectual aspect of the head. In an Elephant dissected by the Parisian Academicians, which was seven feet and a half high from the ground to the top of the back, and eight feet and a half in length from the forehead to the tail, the brain and cerebellum together weighed nine pounds. The convolutions upon the surface of the cerebrum were well marked, and the proportionate size of the cerebellum is described to have been enormous; the brains of the Rhinoceros and Tapir are equally large in proportion, but the relative size of the cerebrum, especially of its anterior and superior regions, when compared with the rest of the brain, is much less. The hippocampus and corpus stria- tum are well developed, and the lateral ventri- cles are continued forwards into the dilated olfactory bulbs. The cerebellum is very large and expanded transversely, its surface being still further increased by numerous and complex anfractuosities. The pons Varolii corresponds in size with the developement of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, and the corpora oli- varia are remarkably prominent. In other re- spects the brain of the animals included in this order presents no peculiarities worthy of special notice. The nerves take their rise in the usual manner, and have the same distribution as in other Mammalia. In those races, however, which have the nose largely developed, the fifth pair is remarkable for its great size, and in the Proboscidian species these nerves are of enormous dimensions. The dura mater is very thick, proportioned rather to the size of the skull and of the entire animal than to that of the brain itself; and its two fibrous layers are found in the larger species to be separated by a quantity of cellular substance in which the vessels ramify. The spinal chord presents no peculiarity worthy of being distinctly alluded to. Of the Special Senses. Touch.—In animals whose limbs seem to be converted into mere pillars of support, and whose hoof-cased feet are totally destitute of all power of prehension, it would hardly have been expected that any nicety of appreciating tactile impressions should exist in the situations usually appropriated to this sense, more especially when we take into the account the thickness and density of the integu- ment with which they are clothed. The nasal apparatus, however, in all the Pachydermata, is richly endowed with nerves of sensation, and obviously forms a very per- fect organ of touch. It is moreover in some measure converted into an instrument of pre- hension, or is employed for digging the soil in search of food, as well as for the usual offices assigned to it; in fact it is in this group of quadrupeds alone that the nasal cartilages and the muscles of the nose assume their full deve- lopement, and accordingly will merit special notice in this place. In the Hug the cartilages of the nose form a complete tube, which is a continuation of the bony nostrils, and near the end of the snout, in the vicinity of the septum narium, the extremity of the cartilages becomes ossified, and in the dried skull seems to form an addi- tional bone (fig. 481). Four strong pairs of muscles, derived from the bones of the face, confer upon the organ considerable power of motion, and render it very efficient in tearing up the earth. Of these muscles the first pair arises in front of the orbit from the lacrymal bone, and terminates in a strong tendon which spreads out upon the upper aspect of the nasal cartilages. Two other pairs situated beneath the preceding are derived from the superior