MARSUPIALIA. 276 clearly exemplified in the fossil jaw from the Stonesfield oolite, in the British Museum, re- presenting the extinct Marsupial which I have termed Phuscolotherium Bucklandii. In the Opossums the internal angular process is tri- angular and triedral, directed inwards, with the point slightly curved upwards, and more produced in the small than in the large species. In the Dasyures it has a similar form, but the apex is extended into an obtuse process. In the Thylacine the base of the inverted angle is proportionally more extended, and a similar structure is presented by the fossil Phascolo- tliere. In the Perameles the angle of the jaw forms a still longer process; it is of a flat- tened form extended obliquely inwards and backwards and slightly curved upwards. It presents a triangular, slightly incurved, and pointed form in the Petaurists, in which it is longest and weakest in the pigmy species, (Acrobates, Desm.) It is shorter and stronger in the Myrmecobius (fig. 97). In the Po- toroos and Phalangers the process Fig. 97. is broad with the apex slightly de- veloped ; it is bent inwards and bounds the lower part of a wide and deep depression in the inside of the ascending ramus. In the great Kangaroo the internal margin of this process is curved upwards, so as to augment the depth of the internal depression above men- tioned. The internal angular pro- cess arrives at its maximum of development in the Wombat, (fig. 94,) and the breadth of the base of the ascending ramus very nearly equals the height of the same part. This broad base also inclines downwards and outwards from the inflected angle, and the same peculiarity occurs in the jaw of the Phascolothere. In the Koala the size of the process in question is also considerable, but it is compressed, and directed backwards with the obtuse apex only bending inwards, so that the characteristic flattening of the base of the ascending ramus is least marked in this species. There is no depression on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw in the Koala, but its smooth surface is simply pierced near its middle by the dental artery. The surface of the external muscular depression bounded below by a broad angular ridge, as above de- scribed, is entire in the Dasyures, Opossums, Bandicoots, Petaurists, and Phalangers; but in the Wombat the outer surface of the as- cending ramus is directly perforated by a round aperture immediately posterior to the com- mencement of the dental canal :* the corres- ponding aperture is of larger size in the Kan- garoo. But in the Potoroos both the external and internal depressions of the ascending ramus lead to wide canals, or continuations of the wide depressions which pass forwards into the * A bristle is represented passing through this aperture in fig. 94. Lower jaw, Myrmecobius. substance of the horizontal ramus, and soon uniting into one passage, leave a vacant space in the intervening bony septum. This struc- ture, if it had been observed only in the jaw of a fossil Marsupial, would have supported an argument for its Saurian nature, more cogent than any that have been adduced in the dis- cussion of the Stonesfield fossils, on account of the analogous vacuity in the jaw of the Cro- codile. The commencement of the dental canal in the Potoroos and Wombat is parallel with the beginning of the molar series, and it has the same relative position in the Stonesfield Mar- supials ; but in the other carnivorous and in- sectivorous species the dental foramen is placed further back. In the Wombat a vascular groove is continued from the foramen along the inner side of the ramus of the jaw as in the Stones- field fossils; and a corresponding but wider groove is present in the lower jaw of the Myr- mecobius. In the Thylacine and Ursine Da- syures and their fossil congener the Phascolo- there, the condyle of the lower jaw is placed low down, on a level with the molar series : it is raised a little above that level in the smal- ler Dasyures and Opossums, and ascends in proportion to the vegetable diet of the spe- cies. In all those Marsupials which have few or very small incisors the horizontal rami of the jaw converge towards a point at the symphysis. The angle of convergence is most open in the Wombat, and the gradual diminution in the size of the rami as they approach this part is most marked and direct. The internal surface of the symphysis menti is almost horizontal, and is convex from side to side in the interval between the molars and incisors. The suture becomes obliterated in aged individuals. It is also wholly obliterated in the skull of a Koala now before me ; in all the other Marsu- pial crania which I have examined, the rami of the lower jaw are disjoined at the sym- physis ; and in the Opossum, both the rami of the lower jaw and all the bones of the face are remarkable for the loose nature of their con- nection. Vertebral column.—The vertebral column is divisible in all the Marsupials into the usual classes of cervical, costal, lumbar, sacral, and caudal vertebrae. The cervical vertebrae inva- riably present the usual number, seven, and the usual character of the perforation of the transverse process, or rather the presence of the upper and lower transverse processes, and the union of their outer extremities with a ru- dimental rib. I found the cervical ribs of the dentata distinct and unanchylosed in a mature Perameles. In the Dasyures, Opossums, Ban- dicoots, and Phalangers, the seventh cervical vertebra has only the upper transverse process, and consequently wants the character of the perforation, as in many of the ordinary Mam- malia. In the Petaurists, Koala, Wombat, Potoroos, and Kangaroos, the seventh vertebra is perforated like the rest. But in the Kan- garoo both the dentata and atlas have the trans- verse processes grooved merely by the vertebral