49 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. articulation, and are associated with some form of inflammatory action, either acute or chronic. Simple acute inflammation of the knee-joint, or acute arthritis genu, may be the result of a contusion, a sprain, or a wound; or there may be no assignable cause. In the latter case it may have been preceded by rheumatic fever, erysipelas, or diffuse inflammation, which had previously engaged distant organs and other structures. The symptoms are usually strongly marked. Considerable pain, which comes on very suddenly, is felt in the knee; the leg in most cases soon becomes flexed and reposes on its outside; and the patient cannot bear the slightest movement to be communicated to the knee-joint. There is considerable increase of temperature in the skin over the affected arti- culation, together with tension of it from in- ordinate effusion of synovial fluid into the joint. Although the usual phenomena of red- ness as an accompaniment of phlogosis may not be observed externally, there can be but little doubt that the capillary vessels pervading the different structures of the interior of the joint are in a state of hyperemia. The patient has but little sleep, and this is frequently inter- rupted by unpleasant dreams and1 painful spas- modic startings of the affected extremity. (Ede- ma of the lower part of the limb now occurs, and in severe cases sometimes extends up the whole leg and thigh, even to the groin. The sympathetic fever may run so high, and the swelling and other local symptoms proceed so rapidly as to deprive the surgeon of any oppor- tunity of proposing or performing amputation to save the patient's life. The fever in well-marked cases of acute ar- thritis genu is sometimes symptomatic of the local disease; sometimes it has preceded the local affection, and has been ushered in by a very severe rigour followed by profuse perspi- ration. Like the disease, the fever will vary in its character. Erysipelas, rheumatic fever, and diffuse inflammation, as has been mentioned, will each occasionally.present in their progress examples of the disease of the knee-joint now under consideration, and the accompanying fever will bear the character of the disease with which the inflammatory affection of the joint is associated. The local phenomena presented by an acute arthritis genu do not, however, vary so much, except in degree and severity. Acute arthritis genu may supervene as a consequence of wounds. Sometimes these wounds are very small. We have known one case in which a puncture made with a fine sew- ing needle, which was accidentally driven with force into the knee-joint, at the inside of the patella, was the cause of a fatal inflammation of the joint: the point of the needle probably penetrated the bone. The - patient, a young woman, was under the care of Mr. Colles many years ago, in Steevens's Hospital. In some instances we have known inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee to have been the result of a wound of the subcrureeal bursa. A countryman had received a trans- verse wound by the cut of a broadsword just above the patella, and fatal inflammation VOL. Ill, extended from this bursa, which was opened, to the synovial sac of the knee-joint. Acute inflammation of the knee-joint has been the result of surgical operations, such, for instance, as that occasionally undertaken for the extraction of moveable bodies which form in the joint and interfere with the due perform- ance of its functions. This operation, we be- lieve, is now very seldom recommended. We have heard and read of many cases in which it has been performed with complete success; on the other hand, we have reason to know that many have died of the inflammation con- sequent on it, and that others have narrowly escaped with their lives, having ever after- wards an anchylosed knee-joint. It is rather singular, but we believe it to be true, that the inflammation resulting from a valvular opening having been made in the knee-joint has not come on for six or seven days after the moveable cartilage has been extracted ; but in- flammation being once set up, its course is ge- nerally acute and dangerous. We consider the observations and experience of Mr. Guthrie on the subject of wounds of the knee-joint to be too valuable to be here 'passed over. " Wounds of the knee-joint," he remarks, " however simple, should always be considered of a dangerous nature, infinitely more so than of the shoulder, the elbow, or the ankle." " I could," he adds, " relate an infi- nite number of cases on these points, termi- nating fatally or in amputation, where the in- jury was severe, or apparently at first but slight, and but few cases where the capsular ligament was opened into by a musket-ball, where the patient has preserved the use of the limb. In every case where the wound was known to be serious, I have invariably been disappointed in the hope of saving the limb." He then adduces the following case as an instance of apparent simple injury that frequently occurs. "This case," he adds, " will shew the danger of all these wounds, and the very great care and at- tention that are necessary for their cure. Co- lonel Donellan, of the forty-eighth regiment, was wounded at the battle of Talavera in the knee-joint by a musket-ball, which gave him so little uneasiness, that when a roller had been put on his leg, with some simple dressing, he could scarcely be persuaded to proceed to the rear. At a little distance from the fire of the enemy we talked over the affairs of the mo- ment, when, tossing his leg about on the saddle, he declared he felt no inconvenience from the wound, and would go back, as he saw his corps was very much exposed. I explained to him the dangerous nature of the wounds of the knee-joint, and after he had staid with me a couple of hours, I persuaded him to go into the town. This injury, although at first to all appearance so trifling, and under the best sur- gical care, caused the death of this officer in a very short time, and proceeded so rapidly as to prevent any relief at last being obtained by amputation." Some years ago MM. Larrey and Garriques, in France, recommended the amputation of the leg immediately below the tuberosity of the e." . 'r'*>-'V