ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. tamed the name of the false or adventitious membrane of croup. This substance is of a pale yellow colour, viscid and tenacious ; more generally found in the larynx than the trachea ; seldom occupying the entire circumference of the tube ; unorganized ; incapable of becoming the medium of union between opposing sur- faces, and with a strong disposition to separate from the surface on which it was originally formed. It usually commences in the larynx, and travels downwards along the trachea; more rarely it seems to begin in the ramifications of the bronchial cells; and again, still more sel- dom is the entire of the mucous membrane attacked at once, and the adventitious mem- brane thrown out over its whole extent. Con- sidered as a pathological production, this false membrane of croup presents some curious and interesting subjects for observation, for although so generally met with that by some it has been regarded as the essential characteristic of the disease, yet perhaps it is not invariably or ne- cessarily so ; at least I have seen cases so far resembling croup in all their stages, that they could not be distinguished from it during life, in which dissection subsequently shewed the mucous membrane swollen, and soft, and pulpy, with copious submucous effusion, yet without the formation of a single flake of lymph. Possibly in the few cases of this de- scription that came under my observation, the disease had proceeded with a rapidity which proved fatal before the membrane had time to have been formed. Again, it is the only* instance of lymph beins; produced on a mucous surface as the result of active acute inflamma- tion. In chronic affections membranous layers of lymph are often formed, and in different situations, as in the bronchial cells and the mucous coat of the intestines, but the acute produces it alone in the structures that are the seat of croup. And lastly, it appears that this effect of inflammation is restricted to patients under twelve years of age. Mr. Ryland, in his excellent treatise on the larynx, has published a table from Bricheteau, by which it is shewn from the experience of fourteen distinguished authors, that croup " has never occurred at a later age than twelve years, and very rarely at that age." My friend, Dr. W. Stokes, con- siders the cases published as examples of croup occurring in the adult as not being inflamma- tory croup at all, but analogous to the diphthe- rite of Bretonneau, which will be shewn to be a very different disease indeed. Such is the pathological condition of the parts in the second stage of croup—a condition indicated by the increased difficulty of breath- ing—the pale and swollen countenance—the straining eye—the dilated nostril and the purple lip; by the occasional expectoration of some portions of the false membrane; and (as hap- pens in every affection of the larynx) by severe and protracted spasms of the glottis. If the patient still continues unrelieved, the third and * For an apparent exception to this rule, see a case published in the Dub. Journ. of Med. Science, September 1838, No. 40, vol. 14. last stage supervenes. The child still breathes with difficulty, but with increasing languor : its countenance is pale; its lip bloodless; there are generally convulsions, in one of which the fatal event may take place ; or else he sinks gradually, exhausted and worn out, and dies comatose. And we are to look for the actual and immediate cause of death not to the larynx but to the lungs and brain. No matter how much the membrane may be swollen, or how extensively the false mem- brane may have been formed, the rima is not completely closed, and the patient dies, not because there is an absolute insufficiency of air to provide for the arterialization of the blood, but because some change has taken place in the organ by which this most important func- tion is performed. When the thorax is opened the lung does not collapse under the influence of atmospheric pressure : when the lung is cut into, it is found to be loaded with dark blood and with frothy serum, the effusion of which latter is often so abundant as nearly to fill the trachea. The brain, if examined, is found congested, and not unfrequently is there an effusion of serous fluid into its ventricles. The acute inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the larynx bears no resemblance in the adult to that in the child, excepting only in the agonizing difficulty of respiration and the fatality of the result, but the pathological con- ditions are different, and therefore is the disease in the adult far more manageable. I can scarcely conceive, much less describe the ex- istence of acute laryngitis to any dangerous extent in the membrane alone without the participation of the submucous tissue, in which the perilous tumefaction is generally, if not al- ways, seated ; I shall, therefore, as I have hi- therto done, consider this affection in connec- tion with its principal pathological result—the formation of an oedematous effusion. Mucous membranes in every situation seem to be connected to the adjacent tissues by that species of cellular membrane termed reticular, as a provision that the courses of the canals of which they form so important a part should not be impeded by any accumulation of fat: and this reticular membrane is more or less lax according to the nature and consistence of the subjacent structure. Where mucous mem- brane is attached to bone, the nature of the connecting medium is so short and close, that in many instances it is scarcely observable, and the membrane, in addition to its own func- tions, appears to perform that of a periosteum, whilst in other situations, as in the intestine, it is so lax as to allow the organ to become dis- tended to an almost unlimited extent. The usual effect of inflammation on this reticular tissue is an effusion of a serous fluid within its cells, and the production of oedema; but this is of little consequence where the tissue is dense and close, and perhaps of still less where the organ is widely distensible. The larynx, however, presents an organ of a mixed character—the mucous membrane is here at- tached to muscle and to ligament, and these