721b PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 2 z *«** their production. And anatomists explored the frequent and often intricate anastomoses of nerves in their peripheral distribution with the hope of finding in them some clue to the explanation of these phenomena. To these actions I prefer to apply the name physical nervous actions to mark their peculiar characteristic, namely, independence of the mind, and to denote that they are the result of a physical change produced by a physical im- pression, and therefore, in their causation, wholly independent of mental influence. The term er- cito-motory has been applied to them by Dr. Hall. To this term, however, there appear to me to be several serious objections. First, this term implies that the excitation of motion takes place in no other way than by a mechanism similar to that by which these movements are produced. Secondly, it denotes the existence of a peculiar excito-motory power different from the ordinary vis nervosa, the agent in all ner- vous phenomena. As if this force were not capable of being roused into action at one time by a mental stimulus, at another by a physical stimulus, or at a third by a mental and phy- sical stimulus united. Persons get into the habit of using the terms "excito-motory power," " excito-motory phenomena," as if this power, or these phenomena were something quite pe- culiar, quite sui generis, and limited to a spe- cial part of the nervous system, losing sight of the real truth that they differ from voluntary actions only in their mode of excitation, that is, by a physical and not by a mental stimulus. Thirdly, it limits the reflecting power of the nervous centres (i.e. the propagation of the change induced by the application of a physical stimulus at the periphery) to reflection from sensitive to motor nerves. Now there are many facts which shew that reflection may take place from a sensitive to another sensitive nerve, and many of the phenomena of sympathy admit of no other explanation excepting on this prin- ciple. And I am by no means prepared to affirm that reflection may not take place from motor to sensitive nerves, or even from motor to other motor nerves, under circumstances of an exalted polarity of the nerves and the centres. Fourthly, some of these so-called excito-motory phenomena have nothing to do with muscular action. Take, for example, erection of the penis: it has not been shown that muscular fibres take any part in the production of this phenomenon, or that the stimulus which gives rise to it does more than create a change in the vessels of the penis, which seems due to muscular relaxation rather than to muscular contraction. The exci- tation of a gland to secrete by stimulating some surface connected with it, as the mammary gland by stimulating the nipple, is no doubt a phenomenon of the same kind, but not one in which muscular fibres are excited to contract. The term " reflex actions," in accordance with Prochaska's view of the reflecting power of the nervous centre, is objectionable inas- much as it fails to denote fully the physical character of the phenomena; and, moreover, it is applicable only to a class of the actions in question, those, namely, in which the excitation VOL. III. of a motor or sensitive nerve takes place through the primary excitation of another motor or sensi- tive nerve. Either this term, however, or that which I have proposed, may be used without in- convenience to science because they involve no particular theory, and yet sufficiently express some leading feature of the phenomena, ?ejec- tion at the centre, in the one case—a physical exciting cause of a phenomenon purely physical in the oilier. It may be objected to the term " physical nervous action" that the actions produced by the mental stimulus are equally physical in their intrinsic nature. When, how- ever, the term is habitually used in contrast with " mental nervous action," all practical difficulty or objection vanishes—both are physical pheno- mena,—but one is physical in its essence and also in its exciting cause; the other is physical in its essence, but mental in its cause. The term plii/sicul nervous actions may be regarded as a generic expression for all those nervous phenomena in which the mind takes no neces- sary share ; reflex actions being a specific term denoting those physical nervous actions of which reflexion at the centre is a prominent character. In this sense I shall use these terms respectively. By none were these phenomena more care- fully studied than by Whytt and Prochaska. In 1764 Whytt published his "Observations on Nervous Diseases," a work full of the most valuable clinical and practical information. In the first chapter of this book, " on the structure, use, and sympathy of the nerves," he enumerates various instances of sympathetic actions, and discusses the mode of their production. To show that he regarded in this light the actions which we are now considering, I shall quote one which he adduces as an example. He says : " When the hinder toes of a frog are wounded, immediately after cutting off its head, there is either no motion at all excited in the muscles of the legs, or a very inconsider- able one. But if the toes of this animal be pinched, or wounded with a penknife, ten or fifteen minutes after decollation, the muscles not only of the legs and thighs but also of the trunk of the body are, for the most part, strongly convulsed, and the frog sometimes moves from one place to another."* Whytt's most important work, in which this subject has been most fully discussed, is the essay on the vital and other involuntary motions of animals, published ten years earlier, in 1754. This physiologist was deeply imbued with a righteous dread of materialism, which led him to such extraordinary lengths in spiritualism, that he ascribed every action and movement of the body to " the immediate energy of the mind or sentient principle;" while he completely repudiated all notion of any mechanical dispo- sition in the intimate nature of these pheno- mena. As an example of his mode of reason- ing upon this subject, and as furlher evidence that he was well acquainted with the class of actions which we now call reflex or physical, the following passage from the eleventh sec- tion of this essay may be cited :—■ * Whytt's Works, 4to. edit. p. 501.