NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) 720c SQopical examination, which discloses the cha- racteristic pus globules with little or no liquor puris, and by mixing some of it with liquor potassae, when it becomes converted into a viscid material resembling white of egg. Pus in the brain is frequently of a green colour, and very commonly exhales an ex- tremely fetid odour. The cerebral matter around the purulent col- lection is either somewhat indurated or it is in an cedematous state, or in one of inflammatory softening. When in this latter state the ab- scess is not so defined ; the softened cerebral matter around it is broken up and mingled with pus; this, however, is rare. An abscess of the brain may open upon the exterior and so evacuate its contents. This may occur either into the nose through the cribriform plate, or into the tympanic cavity or the external auditory meatus. It is sometimes difficult to determine whether inflammatory dis- ease had arisen in the ear, extending to the brain and exciting the formation of abscess, or whether the abscess already formed in the brain had not burst into the ear. A cerebral abscess may empty itself into either of the ventricles. Abscesses are most commonly found in one of the cerebral hemispheres, or in the cerebel- lum ; they are very rarely met with in other parts of the brain. Sometimes collections of pus form upon the surface of the brain between the pia mater and the grey matter of the cere- bral convolutions. And pus or puriform mat- ter is frequently found between the arachnoid and pia mater, where there has been inflamma- tion of either or of both those membranes. This is most common in children. Hyperemia and Ancemia.—An organ so largely supplied with blood as the brain, is liable to variations in the amount of that sup- ply under various circumstances. It is unne- cessary to recapitulate here the arguments already adduced to show that the opinions of those who maintain that the quantity of blood in the brain cannot vary, is erroneous. Indeed it is much to be wondered at how persons accustomed to inspect the brain post mortem could have adopted such a doctrine. In the greatest degree of hyperemia of the brain, all the vessels of the organ are full; the veins which lie between the convolu- tions are full; the vessels of the pia mater are fully injected. Often there are diffused extra- vasations through the areolae of this membrane, causing a red blotch over more or less of the surface of the brain. The grey matter of the convolutions is extremely dark in colour, and if a small portion of it be examined under the microscope the minute vessels which abound in it are found distended with blood. On the sur- face of a section of the white matter numerous bloody points are found, being the orifices of vessels cut across. These points are sometimes very large; sometimes they are surrounded by small extravasations of blood, proceeding from the rupture of some small vessel. In this state of the brain the vessels of the choroid plexus and of the velum interpositum are very full, and also those of the dura mater. Cerebral hyperemia is generally caused by some obstruction to the free return of the blood to the right side of the heart. Hence we see it always after death by asphyxia, and very com- monly in cases of disease of the heart. When the breathing has been seriously impeded just before death, there will always be considerable hyperaemia of the brain. Hence in judging of the nature of a cerebral hyperaemia, the anato- mist may be materially assisted in coming to a correct conclusion if he can ascertain the cause of death and the symptoms immediately pre- ceding it; a fact which clearly denotes how little is the value of mere dissection of morbid parts, unassociated with some knowledge of the symptoms manifested during life. In the bodies of persons dead of epilepsy, during or immediately after the epileptic fit, there is always cerebral hyperaemia. In these cases the hyperaemia is due to the retardation and obstruction of the venous circulation, occa- sioned by the convulsive struggles of the pa- tient and the resulting impediment to respira- tion. It may be caused, likewise, by an in- creased attraction of blood to the organ taking place at the moment of the occurrence of the fit. For the same reason, whenever death is ushered in by convulsions, the brain will be found in a state of congestion, the amount of which will vary with the quantity of blood in the body. Whatever may be the condition of the brain prior to the epileptic paroxysm, it is always in a more or less congested state during and immediately after it. The too prevalent notion that cerebral congestion is the cause of the epileptic paroxysm has but little foundation, while there is abundant evidence to prove that the epileptic paroxysm may give rise to cerebral congestion. It is well known that animals bled to death die in convulsions; and many cases of puerperal convulsions are clearly caused by excessive loss of blood resulting from parturition. Hyperaemia of the brain is frequently found after death from depressing and exhausting maladies, typhus fever, Sec, all diseases of the low typhoid type, and in cases of general paralysis. The powers by which the circulation is carried on in the vessels are greatly depressed, and the blood accumulates in them, especially in the veins. I know of no means of distinguishing active from passive hyperaemia, excepting probably that the capillaries may be more injected in the former, and the veins more filled in the latter. To enable the anatomist to make a correct dis- tinction, the detail of symptoms during life must be called to his assistance. Antemia.—This condition, the opposite to that last considered, is very common. It is frequently met with in children, and in such cases is accompanied with more or less of serous fluid, either in the subarachnoid space or within the ventricles. The brain of the ill- nourished strumous child is generally an anaemic brain. Anaemia of the brain occurs when death has been caused, whether quickly or gradually, by the loss of blood. It is also present when the