253 MAMMARY GLANDS. mal or globular. Cellulous hydatids are sim- ple bags containing fluid. " The breast gra- dually swells," says Sir A. Cooper,* " and in the beginning is entirely free from pain or tenderness; it becomes hard, and no fluctu- ation can then be discovered in it; it con- tinues slowly growing for months and even years, sometimes acquiring very considerable magnitude, the largest I have seen having weighed nine pounds; but in other cases, al- though the bosom was quite filled with these bags, yet it never exceeded twice the size of the other breast." After a time fluctuation may be felt and the cutaneous veins enlarge, but the breast continues free from pain and the constitution does not suffer. The tumour is moveable and pendulous, in some cases in- volving the whole gland, in others only a small portion. " When the swelling,! and the breast in which it is situated, are examined, it is found, upon a careful dissection, that the interstices of the glandular structure itself, and the ten- dinous and cellular tissue connecting it, are in a great measure filled with fibrous matter, poured out by a peculiar species of chronic inflammation, but in some instances a bag is formed into which a serous, or glairy, or some- times a mucous fluid is secreted, according to the degree of inflammation attending it, and this fluid, from its viscidity and from the solid effusion which surrounds, as well as from the cyst being a perfect bag, cannot escape into the surrounding tissues; but by its quantity, its pressure, and by the gradual yielding of the bag, it becomes of a very considerable size ; and vast numbers of these cysts are found to occupy each part of the breast, producing and supporting a continued but slow irritation, and occasioning an effusion of fibrous matter, by which the breast forms an immense tumour consisting of solid and fluid matter. Within these bags of fluid, hydatids hang by small stalks." " The size of these cells varies from the head of a pin to that of a musket-ball." " When the tumour requires removal for this disease, it is necessary to take away all the hardened and swollen parts of the breast, for they have cysts, or cells, formed in them ; and if any cyst be suffered to remain, it will still continue to grow, and the remaining part of the breast to form an hydatid tumour. The great solace to the patient in this disease is, that as it does not contaminate other structures, there is no danger of its extending by absorp- tion, of its producing any complaint beyond the breast, or of its affecting other parts of the body; nor have I seen it seated in both breasts at the same time." Sir B. Brodie]: has pointed out an important feature in the development of certain cysts in the breast, which are different from the true hydatid. This consists in the generation of a morbid growth or excrescence from their in- terior, which becoming organized sometimes * Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast, by Sir A. Cooper, 1829. Part i. p. 21. f Page 22, op. cit. t Medical Gazette, Feb. 21, 1840. entirely fills the cyst so as to convert it into a solid tumour, which ultimately protrudes ex- ternally as a fungous growth, and presents a new and formidable appearance. " In this last stage of the disease,* it is evident that spreading ulceration, sloughing and haemor- rhage, the usual results of an ulcer occurring in a diseased structure, must ensue, and that no remedy is likely to be of any service to the patient, except the removal of the affected parts by surgical operation." The operation is not recommended in the early stages of the disease, as these cysts sometimes become ab- sorbed previously to the development of the fibrous tissue. As the disease is merely local the operation is wholly unattended with danger. The term by which Sir B. Brodie designates these tumours is that of " sero-cystic tumour of the breast." It appears probable that the bladder scirrhus of Dr. Benedict is nothing more than this form of hydatid disease. " The third species of hydatidf which is found in the breast is the animal or globular, and which consists of a bag containing a fluid, which has no vascular connection with the surrounding parts; and it produces within its interior a multitude of bags similar to itself. It is in fact a true entozoon similar in every respect to that found in the brain of sheep and in many other organs of the human frame." " When one of these hydatids,"\ says Sir A. Cooper, " is produced in the breast, an in- flammation is excited by it, and a wall of fibrine surrounds it, it feels hard, and from the small size of the hydatid a fluctuation cannot be discovered; but as the hydatid grows, although the quantity of solid matter increases, yet as the fluid in the hydatid becomes more abundant, a fluctuation in the centre of the tumour may be ultimately perceived." The disease is not malignant, and if a sim- ple puncture and evacuation of its contents should not prove effectual in dispersing it, may be removed without danger. The chronic mammary tumour occurs early in life and unconnected with any diseased state of constitution. " It grows," according to Cooper, " from the surface of the breast rather than from its interior, and it therefore generally appears to be very superficial, excepting if it spring from the posterior surface of the breast, when it is deep-seated and its peculiar features are less easily discriminated." These tumours are unconnected with the glandular structure of the breast. Dr. Warren§ relates a case in which he removed one of these tumours from a young woman, who four years after the operation nursed an infant from the same breast. They are extremely moveable, frequently begin with- out pain, and continue many years without exciting any uneasiness. They vary in size, have a lobulated character, and are invested in a fibrous membrane. " Although these tumours are not in their commencement malignant, and * Page 842, loc. cit. f Page 45, op. cit. + Loc. cit. page 48. § Surgical Observations on Tumours, Boston, 1837, p. 211.