MOTION. 440 water, and to overcome the resistance which the water opposes to the motion of the body, due to its figure and velocity. In resisting me- dia, both the facility with which bodies im- mersed are supported, and the difficulty of moving through them, increase with the density of the medium: this arises from the increased resistance which the particles oppose to their displacement; hence, according to Borelli, fishes expend, in order to acquire a given velo- city, nearly twice as much animal power as birds, but are supported in the fluid without any exertion, whereas birds, as we have seen, are obliged to use considerable force to sustain themselves in the air.* Sect. IV. Pi-ogi-ession on solids.—The pro- gressive motions of animals on solids are ac- complished with much less expenditure of mus- cular action than is employed by animals in swimming or flying. In the various movements of animals upon solids the reaction of the ground is always equal and opposite to the quantity of muscular action impressed on it.f The velocity being equal, muscular action in- creases as the resistance of the solids decreases; hence the augmentation of labour in walking on a loamy or soft soil, such as the sands on the sea-shore. If an animal were projected into space, and moving in an unresisting me- dium, no effort of its limbs would ever enable it to change either the velocity or direction of the motion of its centre of gravity. From these dynamic considerations we perceive the importance of a surrounding resisting medium to animal progression. We shall now trace the modes of terrestrial progression from the lower forms of the animal kingdom succes- sively through the intermediate groups, to man. Radiata. — In the general outline of the Echinodermata we observe great diversity in the structure of the organs of support and locomotion. The Crinoidea belong most gene- rally to those forms of the Echinodermata which are permanently fixed. Amongst the Asterioidea, in the Comatula, the locomotive organs consist of long, complicated, flexiblearms radiating from a common centre, and subdivid- ing into numerous filaments covered with spines, which perform the office of so many legs, enabling the animal to drag itself along the bottom of the sea, or of so many tenta- cula to lay hold of surrounding solids or to seize their prey. In the Ophiura the rays are of considerable length, being composed of a great number of pieces curiously imbricated and connected together by ligaments; they are flexible and moveable in every direction, and act not only as legs for crawling on the ground but also as fins, which, by a kind of undula- tory movement, enable the animal to swim during short intervals. In the Asterias the * See Borelli,>. 260. t Barthez, in opposition to Euler, Borelli, and others, denies that reaction is the cause of progres- sive motion on solids, but in the explanation which he gives of it it is difficult to understand his reason- ing, without taking into account the resistance of the ground. five rays diverge at nearly five equal angles from the axis of revolution. In the Sea-star each ray, according to Reaumur, is composed of seven hundred calcareous plates, of which there are about three thousand five hundred in the whole animal. The rays of the As- terias do not possess the flexibility of those of the Comatula or Gorgonia, and of themselves- would be insufficient to propel the animal along. Nature has therefore substituted other organs of progression in tubular, retractile, fleshy suckers, protruded from oblique ambulacra!1 perforations, by means of which the animal is dragged along the bottom of the sea or upon the vertical surfaces of submarine rocks. If an Asterias left to all appearance motion- less and inanimate by the retiring waves,, be picked up from the beach, and placed in a large glass jar filled with sea-water,, an asto- nishing spectacle will be observed. " Slowly," says Professor Rymer Jones,. " the rays ex- pand to their full stretch;, hundreds of feet protrude through the ambulacral apertures, and each apparently possessed of independent ac- tion, fixes itself to the sides of the vessel; as the animal begins its march, the numerous suckers are all soon employed in fixing and detaching themselves alternately, some remain- ing adherent, whilst others change their posi- tions; and thus by an equable gliding motion the star-fish climbs the side of the glass." The progression of the Asterias is laboured and exceedingly slow, and ill adapted for traversing such surfaces as the rough shingles of the sea- shore. Echinida.—The Echinus Esculentus is one of the most complicated and elaborately formed species of the whole Echinodermata j its figure is spherical: the five pairs of arched ambulacra!., and five pairs of tubercular columns, are joined to each other by zigzag sutures. The nume- rous spines are connected to the tubercles by a ball and socket articulation. According to Dr. Grant, the skeleton is composed of more than ten thousand pieces, the spines acting as so many inflexible levers, and the numerous suckers protruding through the oblique ambu- lacral foramina, as so many feet, form a double set of organs for progression.* In the Echinus, the spines being perpen- dicular to the shell, elevate its centre of gravity (which, on account of its globular figure, is in the centre of the shell) far above the plane of motion, protect the shell from internal in- jury, and increase the diameter of the whole sphere, with respect to that of the shell alone, by twice the mean length of the spines. From the nature of their articulations, the spines are capable of moving in every direction upon their tubercular attachments; but these alone would be insufficient to enable these animals to climb the sides of submarine rocks and vertical pre- cipices in search of shell-fish on which they prey; but by the aid of their tubular feet, which they have the power of extending be- yond the spines, we behold in the Echini the * Grant's Outlines of Com. Anat. p. IB.