714 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) but, being of small size, it escaped the notice of the observer. This explanation is likewise confirmed by the occurrence of cases (rare, it is true) in which the brain existed, but the spinal cord was wanting. A very able narrative of a case of this kind has lately been published by Dr. Lonsdale of Edinburgh. " The anterior and middle lobes of the brain appeared to be properly developed, and occupied their usual positions in the cranial cavity ; whilst the posterior lobes were much smaller, and were partially squeezed through a large abnormal opening or deficiency in the occipital bone. The cerebellum and that part of the occipital bone in which it is normally lodged, were wanting. There was not the slightest vestige of medulla oblongata or spinal cord, and the posterior arches of the vertebrae did not exist."* The foetus had reached its full term, and its body and limbs were well formed. An interesting feature which had been well observed in this case, although probably not peculiar to it, but hitherto overlooked, was the relation of the nerves in the cranial and spinal cavities. All the nerves of the medulla oblon- gata, and the first, second, and third cervical nerves, hung as loose threads in <lhe cranial cavity or in the upper part of the spinal canal, and presented a looped arrangement, seeming to denote that such is their normal disposition in the nervous centre. Partial deficiencies of the spinal cord, al- though also rare, are more frequent than the total absence of the organ. These occur in connection with other defects of developement. Thus, in spina bifida much of the cord is defi- cient, either throughout its entire extent or in those parts where the vertebral wall is defective. In such cases it is probable that the deficiency is attributable to the destructive influence of the dropsical effusion rather than to an original de- fect of the organ. In cases in which the upper or the lower extremities have not been deve- loped, the usual cervical or lumbar swelling is imperfectly developed, owing to the absence or atrophy of the fibres which would have formed the nerves to those limbs. Excessive congenital developement of the spinal cord occurs only in those monstrosities which arise from the junction or fusion of the spinal columns of two embryos. The diseased states of the spinal cord may be enumerated as follows :—hypertrophy, atrophy, induration, softening, suppuration, deposits of tubercle or of other morbid products. In hypertrophy, the cord is enlarged and looks full and plump, without any alteration of its consistence or of its intimate structure. It is not improbable that the elementary fibres as well as the vesicles of grey matter may be en- larged in such cases, and that the increased dimensions of the whole organ must be attri- buted to this cause, and not to the deposition of any new material in it. I have not, however, had any opportunity of ascertaining this point by microscopic examination. * Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal. Atrophy occurs in the cord generally as the result of some local pressure from a tumour developed in connection with some one of the membranes or external to them. In a case of this kind which I lately examined, the tumour consisted of a mass of scrofulous matter situate between the vertebrae and the dura mater in the upper part of the dorsal region. That part of the cord which was pressed upon by the tumour was wasted to one-half its natural size, whilst below it the cord exhibited its natural size. Atrophy of the cord occurs as part of that general wasting of the nervous centres which accompanies advanced life, or a state of general cachexy. In persons long bedridden the cord is found in a wasted state ; and in cases of ex- tensive hysterical paralysis, in which exercise of the enfeebled limbs has been neglected, the cord will participate in the wasting of the nerves which supply the affected parts. Induration of the cord is not of unfrequent occurrence, and appears to be the result of some abnormal nutrition analogous to if not identical with chronic inflammation—inflam- mation modified, perhaps, in the nature of its event by some peculiar state of the blood. The hardness occurs generally in patches, involving more or less of the thickness of the cord, and affecting the peripheral parts of the body, in pro- portion as it involves the immediate points of implantation of the roots of the nerves, or those roots themselves. It is generally accompanied by some discolouration of a light brownish hue, as if the first changes which gave rise to it were attended with extravasation of the colouring matter of the blood. Sometimes, however, induration seems to re- sult from the changes which accompany atro- phy of the cord, as if from an imperfect sup- ply of the fluids necessary for perfect nutrition. Softening of the cord is found in two states, which are probably essentially different in their intrinsic nature and origin. One is that of red softening; the other is that of white or colourless softening. In the former the tissue of the spinal cord is much softer than it ought to be, and is readily disintegrated by a stream of water directed upon it; its colour is due to the full injection of the bloodvessels which tra- verse it, or to some extravasated blood. In the latter the nervous matter is reduced to a soft semifluid mass, like thick cream, without the least appearance of injected vessels. In the former the nerve fibres are more or less broken down and softened; in the latter there is little or no breaking down of the fibres, but they are at- tenuated and have lost the distinctive characters ofthewhitesubstnnceand central axis to a greater or less degree. Red softening appears to be in- flammatory in its origin, but white softening in- dicates a deficient supply of blood, and so far resembles the gangrene which occurs in external soft parts. The anatomist should be prepared to distin- guish the white softening, which is the product of a morb*d process during life, from that which occurs after death as the result of decom- position, or which may be produced by violent compression of a part of the cord in opening