247 MAMMARY GLANDS. produce so much excitement as to occasion erection of the nipple." The nipple is carefully connected with the gland by means of a firm fascia encircling the lactiferous tubes derived from the general fibrous tissue of the breast and thorax. The areola.—This term has been applied to the coloured circle which surrounds the nipple. It is smooth until the period of puberty, when it becomes slightly tuberculated. Its diameter in a child is about half an inch; at puberty and in young women double that size, and during lactation is as much as two inches or more, not again changing except in very old age, when it almost disappears. The change of the colour of the areola from a reddish tint to a dark brown as the result of impregnation is well known to the practitioner. The cuticle is thin as in the nipple. Speaking of the cutis of the areola Sir A. Cooper observes, that " when the areola is examined with attention after the separation of the cuticle Fig. 71. and rete mucosum, its surface is found to be covered with papillae like those of the nipple, but of smaller size, although stiil extremely distinct. They are smallest at the circumference of the areola, but gradually increase in size as they approach the nipple. They are disposed in circles, their bases fixed in the cutis, and the apex of each is directed towards the nipple, so that they are opposed to the papillae of the lips of the child. They are very vascular and sensitive bodies". (See Jig. 71.) The whole structure of the areola points to it as a continu- ation of the nipple. The nipple and areola are lubricated by the secretion of especial mucous follicles which surround them, called by Sir A. Cooper the tubercles of the areola. " These glands are extremely vascular, lobulated, and cellular. Each orifice opens into an arborescent vessel or vessels." (See^g. 72). Fig. 72. A front view of the nipple and areola, shewing the foliated appearance of the papilla: and the numerous but smaller papillae of the areola. This and the following figures are all taken from Sir A. Cooper's work. A tubercle filled with yellow injection and twenty-three times magnified. These are the tubercles which have been supposed by anatomists to produce milk, and to have communication with the lactiferous tubes, from which, however, they are separate and dis- tinct. They secrete a mucous fluid, which has more the mppearance of gruel than milk. A section of the mammary gland through the nipple, shewing the ducts over a bristle unravelled, and pro- ceeding to the posterior part of the gland. The ligamenta suspensoria may be seen passing from the anterior surface of the gland to the shin, supporting the folds or processes of the former, and leaving considerable' cavities between them, in which the fat is contained in its proper membrane. The fascia may be observed passing to each extremity of the gland and dividing into two portions; the anterior proceeding upon the surface of the gland to form the ligamenta suspensoria ; the posterior behind the gland, sending processes between which a smaller quantity of fat is contained; and both these layers assist in producing the fibrous tissue of the gland. It also sends processes of fascia backwards to join the aponeurosis of the pectoral muscle, b, b, forming the line from one extremity of the gland to the other. The section, therefore, clearly shews the various cords by means of which the breast is slung and sustained, a, a, the fascia.