ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 796 the "original liquid, if it produce coagulation, shews the presence of casein. We need not seek for casein if the fluid shews an acid re- action, as it is coagulated by free acids in general. If mucus be present, some ambiguity may arise from the action of acetic acid, as this re-agent causes the coagulation of the mucus furnished by the alimentary canal and its appendages. When present, however, in appreciable quan- tity, mucus always communicates to the fluid a certain degree of ropiness which leads us to suspect its presence. A confirmatory test for casein under such circumstances consists in adding a few grains of milk sugar and a little washed rennet; if the mixture be heated for an hour or two to about 120°, the casein coagu- lates completely. c. Fatty matters and cholesterin are revealed by the microscope, and may be separated by evaporating the fluid to dryness, digesting the residue with ether and filtering; by sponta- neous evaporation of the ethereal solution, they are left behind with their usual physical characters. d. The presence of sugar is best discovered by mixing the suspected fluid with yeast and placing it in an inverted tube over mercury for twenty-four hours, at a temperature of from 70° to 80° F., making at the same time a comparative experiment with an equal bulk of the same yeast diluted to the same extent with pure water. We cannot by yeast determine with certainty the presence of sugar in a pro- portion less than ^{h of the liquid employed. A much more delicate test, and one which fur- nishes more immediate results, has lately been proposed by Trommer, founded upon the fact that organic bodies, to which free alkali has been added in excess, and especially solutions of grape and milk sugar, dissolve freshly pre- cipitated oxide of copper; when the saccharine solutions are boiled they are decomposed,and sub-oxide of copper is deposited of a charac- teristic reddish brown colour. To apply this test, add to the suspected liquid a few drops of solution of caustic potass, so as to render it distinctly alkaline, then a small quantity of a dilute solution of sulphate of copper, agita- ting to dissolve the precipitate ; a liquid of a blue colour varying in intensity with the quan- tity of copper held in solution is obtained. Apply heat, and if sugar is present an ochre yellow or red precipitate of sub-oxide takes place, as soon as ebullition begins. I have already mentioned that the presence of milk sugar has the same effect as grape or dia- betic sugar; other animal matters produce a similar change. It is, however, very deli- cate in its indications; a negative result therefore may be considered as decisive of the absence of sugar. If a precipitate occur, the presumption that we are examining a saccha- rine liquid ought always to be confirmed by recourse to the unequivocal expedient of fer- mentation. It is easy to concentrate the fluid if the sugar is very small in quantity ; the only case in which any ambiguity can arise. Sugar of milk has never been found but in the secre- tiou from which it derives its name. e. XJrea can only be discovered satisfactorily by evaporating the suspected fluid to dryness and treating the residue with alcohol, again evaporating this alcoholic solution to dryness, redissolving in water,and adding nitric or oxalic acid with the precautions to be mentioned hereafter when treating specially of the deter- mination of urea. When common salt is al- lowed to crystallize from a moderately dilute solution of urea, the form of the crystals is modified, and instead of obtaining cubes or octohedra the crystals developed assume a more or less penniform appearance, often shew- ing the figure of a Maltese cross with serrated edges. These modifications have been proposed as a test of the presence of urea : they are not, however, certain indications, though useful as affording a presumption of its presence. When a fluid which contains urea is concen- trated by evaporation, and nitric acid is then added, by spontaneous evaporation on a glass plate we obtain lamellar crystals of nitrate of urea in irregular rhomboidal plates with the acute angles often truncated. f. To detect the existence of uric acid and the urates, if albuminous principles are present, the liquid is evaporated to dryness, and the residue digested for some hours with solution of caustic potash, till every thing soluble has been taken up. It is diluted, filtered, and supersaturated with hydro- chloric acid; a flocculent precipitate forms, which is redissolved by excess of acid ; and the uric acid separates; this is collected on a filter. We are enabled by this pro- cess, where considerable quantities of uric acid are present, as in the excrements of birds of prey, to obtain results of considera- ble accuracy ; but where the proportion of the acid is very minute, it cannot be relied upon for quantitative experiments; the residue in these cases must be subjected to microscopic examination. If no azotised matters are pre- sent, the mere addition of free hydrochloric acid after a lapse of some hours usually causes a separation of rhombic crystals of the acid; or by evaporating to dryness and treating the residue with water acidulated with hydro- chloric acid, the uric acid remains undissolved ; the residue is proved to contain this compound, either by the appearance of its crystals under the microscope, or by evaporating a small por- tion to dryness with nitric acid on a slip of glass, when a red stain is left; a drop of am- monia added produces a fine crimson; if this be evaporated to dryness, a drop of solution of caustic potash converts it into a beautiful purple, which is destroyed by the application of heat. The methods for testing the other acids will be described when treating of their quantitative determination. Having now obtained an idea of the nature of the fluid we have to examine, we are ready to proceed with its Quantitative analysis. A thin porcelain or platinum capsule is carefully counterpoised, and filled with a given weight of the fluid, usually 500 or 1000 grains.