632 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Meninges.) dinal sinus above; one for the straight sinus in front; two for the lateral sinuses on each side ; and two for the occipital sinuses inferiorly (fig. 362, <)• Fig. 362. ■r Posterior part of the cranium removed, to shew the dura mater and the superior longitudinal, and the lateral sinuses, with the torcular Herophili. e, lateral sinus ; t, torcular Herophili; j, superior longitudinal sinus. Lateral sinuses.—From each side of the con- flux of the sinuses, there proceeds in a some- what serpentine course outwards, downwards, and forwards, a wide canal, the largest of the sinuses, which conveys the blood from the torcular to the internal jugular vein. A groove exists on each side of the internal occipital pro- tuberance, for the reception of this sinus, which marks the occipital bone, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and a small portion of the occipital bone again. In a great portion of their course, the lateral sinuses correspond to the posterior margin of the tentorium cerebelli, as far forwards as the mastoid portion of the tem- poral bone. Here each sinus winds downwards to reach the jugular foramen in the posterior lacerated opening. These sinuses are never equal; that of the right side being, with few exceptions, the larger, a circumstance which Vicq d'Azyr, Soemmering, and Rudolphi attri- buted to the fact that most persons sleep on the right side, on which account the blood is apt to accumulate to that side. They are more capacious at their termination in the jugular veins than at their commencement from the torcular. The inner surface of this sinus is like that of all the others ; it is not, however, tra- versed by any of the bands which are found so numerous in the longitudinal sinus. Cruveil- hier states that he once saw in the horizontal portion of this sinus, a few of the Pacchionian bodies. In its course each lateral sinus receives veins from the inferior surface of the brain and supe- rior of the cerebellum; it also receives the supe- rior petrosal sinus near the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. A large mastoid vein communicates with this sinus and pene- trates to the exterior, where it forms one of the principal sources of the occipital vein, thus establishing a free and direct communication between the circulation within and that with- out the cranium.* Near the jugular foramen the lateral sinus receives the inferior petrosal. None of the sinuses has been more fre- quently the seat of inflammatory disease than the lateral. Being the principal channel for the return of the venous blood from the in- terior of the skull, a slight morbid action within them can scarcely fail to induce a material de- rangement of the cerebral circulation, and the nearness of their position to the cerebellum and to the posterior lobes of the brain renders it very unlikely that those parts would escape participating in any acute disease which might arise within it. Occipital sinuses. — These are small veins lodged between the layers of the falx cerebelli. They collect the blood from the dura mater and from the cranial bones in the immediate vici- nity of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, and from thence they pass upwards and inwards to open into the lower part of the torcular. Cruveilhier suggests that the direc- tion and position of the occipital sinuses are best indicated by describing them as being the cords of the arcs which the lateral sinuses form. Petrosal simises. — These sinuses are so named from their connection with the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The superior petrosal sinus corresponds, on each side, to the posterior superior edge of the petrous bone, along the three outer fourths of which a groove exists for its reception. This groove is inter- rupted in front by a depression in which the fifth nerve is lodged, so that at this place that nerve lies between the sinus and the bone. The superior petrosal sinus is about large enough to contain an ordinary sized surgeon's probe. It communicates with the lateral sinus posteriorly and with the cavernous sinus in front, and in its course it receives several small veins from the dura mater in the middle fossa of the cra- nium. It receives a vein from the anterior por- tion of the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, and also, sometimes, one from the inferior surface of the brain. Small veins from the pons Varolii empty themselves into its an- terior extremity. The inferior petrosal sinuses also form an additional channel of communication between the lateral and cavernous sinuses. They are larger but shorter than the superior. In situ- ation they correspond to the interval between the petrous bone and the occipital. They open into the inferior portion of the lateral sinus just before it unites with the jugular vein. IVansverse sinus.—This sinus establishes a communication between the petrosal and * Cruveilhier, An. Desc. t. iii. p. 268.