925 PERINEUM. of the vas deferens becomes continuous with that which carpets the urethra at the orifice of the common ejaculatory duct. The membranous portion of the urethra is intermediate between the prostatic and the spongy portions of that canal. In situ its length seldom exceeds three quarters of an inch, but when detached and extended it ap- pears about an inch long. Its direction is nearly horizontal, but its upper surface presents a very slight curve, concave towards the pubis. Its under surface is overlapped from before by the bulb, a disposition which diminishes somewhat the apparent length of its lower wall. Its anterior extremity is fixed by the triangular ligament of the urethra, a structure of uncom- mon strength, through which it passes; but posteriorly it projects behind the triangular ligament for a short distance, and being there girded by Wilson's muscles, which support it like a sling, it possesses in that situation con- siderable mobility. The membranous portion of the urethra is naturally the narrowest part of the canal, presenting in this respect a marked contrast to the prostatic and spongy portions. Its parietes are endowed with considerable powers of resistance, being strengthened in front by the triangular ligament, which sends forwards upon them an expansion continuous with the fibrous covering of the bulb; whilst a still stronger expansion derived from the back of the triangular ligament surrounds the urethra beneath Wilson's muscles, and affords it power- ful protection posteriorly. Between this latter investment and the mucous membrane a pecu- liar structure exists of which the exact nature is rather doubtful, some considering it a modi- fied eiectile tissue, whilst others look upon it as muscular. The membranous portion of the urethra merits from the surgical anatomist an attentive consideration. It is here that the operator lays bare the groove of the staff in lithotomy per- formed after the lateral or bilateral methods; this is the situation in which spasm usually arrests the catheter, the obstruction being pro- duced by undue action of Wilson's muscles. Foreign bodies, such as calculi, are very likely in consequence of its diminished calibre to be impacted in this part of the canal, and its anterior extremity is frequently the site of per- manent stricture. In using a curved catheter the surgeon should slacken the penis upon the instrument so soon as its point has fairly traversed the triangular ligament; for if, during the further depression of the handle, the penis be forcibly stretched upon the catheter, its point may push the upper wall of the urethra against the back of the pubis, and in that manner produce considerable mischief. It is also of advantage to communi- cate a slightly onward movement to the catheter at this part of the passage, as the bladder is situated much more posteriorly, and in the introduction of any instrument, whether curved or straight, it should be borne in mind that spasmodic obstructions yield in general to gentle but continued pressure, and that attempts to force such strictures are usually productive of increased spasm, and, if persisted in, of lacera- tion of the urethral canal. In connexion with the perineum, so much of the spongy portion of the urethra only as is covered by the acceleratores urinae muscles re- quires to be considered, and of this the bulb constitutes the largest and most important part. The bulb is an oval swelling, in which the corpus spongiosum urethra commences poste- riorly, it varies in size according to the sub- ject, being small during childhood, enlarging very much at puberty, and often presenting excessive dimensions in old men ; during erec- tion, too, it is turgid and swollen, though at other times it remainscomparatively flaccid. The length of the bulb, when well developed, may be estimated at an inch and a half, and its thickness or depth from the cavity of the urethra at about eight lines. Its posterior extremity is thick and overlaps the membranous portion of the ure- thra, whilst anteriorly the bulb becomes gra- dually narrower, but there is no exact line of demarcation between that body and the re- mainder of the corpus spongiosum. The bulb is situated between the crura penis and in front of the triangular ligament of the urethra, to which it is connected by the expansion of fibrous membrane already described ; it is co- veted by the acceleratores urina?, and derives from them a muscular sheath all but perfect. The bulk of this body is constituted by a spongy erectile tissue, remarkably soft, and possessing intrinsically little powers of resist- ance, but a thin fibrous membrane of invest- ment affords it some protection from without. The canal of the urethra in this situation pre- sents a slight dilatation (most observable infe- riorly) named the sinus of the bulb, and the delicate ducts of Cowper's glands, two in num- ber, open into the lower and lateral parts of the passage still further forwards. It should be particularly noted that the bulb, measured at the exterior, is in point of size quite out of proportion to the width of the corresponding part of the urethral canal, the canal presenting but a slight dilatation, whilst the dimensions of the bulb are very considerable; and of equal importance in practice is the fact that the axis of the bulb differs widely from the axis of the corresponding portion of the canal, the axis of the bulb running in a very oblique direction downwards and backwards towards the lower extremity of the rectum, whilst the axis of the canal lies upon a higher plane and runs much more nearly horizontally backwards. In a healthy urethra the principal difficulties of eatheterism, whether performed by straight or by curved instruments, are encountered at this part of the passage : the sudden change in direction which the urethra here undergoes, the abrupt narrowing of the membranous por- tion immediately behind the dilatation of the bulb, the mobility of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament, and its immobility where it passes through that structure, the ease with which a catheter perforates the delicate tissue of the bulb, and, above all, the striking difference in direction observable between the axis of the bulb and the axis of the correspond-