PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722a will, to feel, to perceive, to think, are so many states of Soul or acts of Mind. Mind is, then, the mode of action of the Soul, as Life is the mode of action of the Body. The latter we distinguish as material, and the phe- nomena of life as specially belonging to orga- nized matter; the former we denominate imma- terial, to mark its essential difference from the body, admitting, however, that it exists in a mysterious union with the nervous system of the body in a manner so intimate that in a state of health the smallest change in either readily affects the other. Such is the doctrine which seems most con- sonant with reason and experience, and, above all, with revelation. But there are those who maintain that not only are certain states of mind preceded by certain states of body, but that all our ideas, our sensations, our volitions, are the result of, and as it were generated by, certain organic changes. This view, which is that of materialism, while it necessarily tends to destroy our hopes of a future Tife, by denying even the very ex- istence of a Soul, and not its immortality only, is opposed by the consciousness which we possess of a power inherent in the mind to direct and control the actions of the brain, and by the knowledge that the mind will rise supe- rior to the fatigue and exhaustion of the body, and will survive, unimpaired, even its wreck. There are, moreover, some excellent persons, who, while they admit the existence of an immortal soul distinct from the mind, never- theless regard the phenomena of the mind as functions of the brain, resulting from the changes which are continually taking place in that organ. The mind, they say, is " the ag- gregate of the functions of the brain," and is entirely dependent on its integrity. But the adoption of these views involves the advocate of them in as great a difficulty as that from which he flatters himself he has escaped. If there be a soul, what is its relation to the mind ? What is its office? Is it simply asso- ciated with the body without being affected by it or affecting it in turn ? Surely it must have some office, and if it be admitted to be capable of exercising any influence, either on the mind or on the body, then the whole matter in dis- pute vanishes. If the soul can affect the mind, it must do so according to these views through the body; and, if this be admitted, why make a difficulty about admitting that the will, as a faculty of the soul, can influence some portion of the brain ? On the other hand, if it be denied that the soul can affect either mind or body, then must we come to the conclusion that the soul is inert, or else an entity totally distinct from the body, a looker-on as it were, which watches the corporeal functions and the mental pheno- mena, but takes no part in them, and has no true sympathy with them.* * I beg the reader to peruse with attention the following passage from Bishop Butler:—" Human creatures," says this profound thinker, exist at present in two states of life and perception, greatly An acute and ingenious writer, Dr. Wigan, who has advocated with great zeal and ability the docrine of the duality of the mind, seems to think that the progress of mental philosophy and of cerebral physiology is much hindered by the views of those who advocate the spiritual different from each other; each of which has its own peculiar laws, and its own peculiar enjoyments and sufferings. When any of our senses are affected or appetites gratified with the objects of them, we may be said to exist or live in a state of sensation. When none of our senses are affected or appetites gratified, and yet we perceive and reason and act, we may be said to exist or live in a state of reflexion. Now, it is by no means certain that any thing which is dissolved by death is any way necessary to the living being in this its state of reflection, after ideas are gained. For though, from our present constitution and condition of being, our external organs of sense are necessary for conveying in ideas to our reflecting powers, as carriages, and levers, and scaffolds are in architecture, yet when these ideas are brought in, we are capable of reflecting in the most intense degree, and of enjoying the greatest pleasure and feeling the greatest pain by means of that reflection without any assistance from our senses •, and without any at all, which we know of, from that body which shall be dissolved by death. It does not appear then, that the relation of this gross body to the reflecting being is, in any degree, necessary to thinking—to our intellectual enjoy- ments or sufferings; nor, consequently, that the dissolution or alienation of the former by death will be the destruction of those present powers which render us capable of this state of reflection. Further, there are instances of mortal diseases which do not at all affect our present intellectual powers ; and this affords a presumption that those diseases will not destroy these present powers. Indeed, from the observations made above, it ap- pears that there is no presumption that the dissolu- tion of the body is the destruction of the living agent from their mutually affecting each other. And, by the same reasoning, it must appear too that there is no presumption that the dissolution of the body is the destruction of our present reflecting powers from their mutually affecting each other ; but instances of their not affecting each other afford a presumption of the contrary. Instances of mortal diseases not impairing our present reflecting powers evidently turn our thoughts even from imagining such diseases to be the destruction of them. Seve- ral things, indeed, greatly affect all our living powers, and at length suspend the exercise of them ; as for instance drowsiness increasing till it ends in sound sleep; and from hence we might have imagined it would destroy them, till we found by experience the weakness of this way of judging. But, in the diseases now mentioned, there is not so much as this shadow of probability to lead us to any such conclusion as to the reflecting powers which we have at present. For, in those diseases, per- sons, the moment before death, appear to be in the highest vigour of life. They discover apprehension, memory, reason, all entire ; with the utmost force of affection ; sense of character, of shame and ho- nour ; and the highest mental enjoyments and suf- ferings, even to the last gasp ; and these surely prove even greater vigour of life than bodily strength docs. Now what pretence is there for thinking that a progressive disease when arrived to such a degree, I mean that degree which is mortal, will destroy those powers which were not impaired, which were not affected by it during its whole progress quite up to that degree ? And if death by diseases of this kind is not the destruction of our present reflecting powers, 't will scarce be thought that death by any other means is." See the admirable chapter, " Of a future Life," in Butler's Analogy of Religion, natural and revealed.