PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722g altogether, notwithstanding the exciting influ- ence of the impression. The true explanation seems to be, that the mind can exert upon the vesicular matter a power which can prevent the exercise of that change, or neutralise the change, without which the motor fibres will not be affected by a physical stimulus. Reflex actions are more manifest in some situations than others: thus, in cases of hemi- plegia from diseased brain, they are generally very obvious in the lower extremity, but to- tally absent in the upper. This, the advocates of the excito-motory theory ascribe to a paucity of excito-motory fibres in the latter limb, and to a larger amount of them in the former. Or, it has been attributed to the greater and more enduring influence of shock upon that segment of the cord from which the nerves of the upper extremities arise, as nearer the seat of lesion, than upon the lumbar segment. But another explanation of this important fact may be offered, which is equally satisfactory, and more accordant with other phenomena. A certain disposition of the nerves upon the tegu- mentary surface is as necessary for the develope- ment of rcjiex actions as of sensations; and these movements will be more or less easily manifested, according as this organization of the nerves on the surface is more or less perfect. That disposition of the cutaneous nerves which renders the surface easily excitable by titillation seems most favourable to the deve- lopement of these actions. Hence, there is no place where they are more readily excited than in the lower extremities by stimulating the soles of the feet or the intervals between the toes, both of which situations are highly susceptible of titillation. At the isthmus faucium the slightest touch on the surface excites a move- ment of deglutition ; and this touch, at the same time, produces a very peculiar sensation of tickling, quite distinct from that which may be excited at other parts of the pharynx, or mouth. When this part of the mucous mem- brane is in a state of irritation as an effect of coryza, this tickling sensation is present, and repeated acts of swallowing are provoked. Two facts may be stated here, which illus- trate the position above laid down respecting the necessity of a certain disposition of the nerves on the tegumental surface, for the de- velopement of reflex actions. The first is one which has been noticed by Volkmann, and which I have repeatedly observed, namely, that in frogs, and other animals, reflex actions are readily excited by stimulating the feet; but irritating the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, which supply those parts, is not sufficient for this purpose. I have already remarked that in numerous experiments upon the posterior roots of the nerves movements have not been ex- cited whilst they have been subjected to irrita- tion, except when galvanism was employed, which, being diffused, affected the cord itself: the recorded statements of most modern ex- perimenters agree in the main with this state- ment. The second fact is this: in the male frog the developement of a papillary structure on the skin of the thumb seems to have refe- rence to the excitation of the physical power of the cord, to enable the animal to grasp the female without the necessity of a prolonged exercise of volition. Stimulating the fingers will scarcely produce reflex actions, but the slightest touch to the enlarged thumb will cause the animal to assume the attitude of grasping. If the papillae be shaved off the thumb, its piower of exciting these actions is instantly lost. When the polarity of the cord is greatly ex- cited by strychnine or other substances, or when tetanus exists, all parts of the surface are equally capable of exciting reflex actions. The least touch will cause them, not only in the limb touched, but in all that side of the trunk, or even throughout the whole body. So general is the excitation, that the least im- pression made on the peripheral extremity of a sensitive nerve in any part of the body is instantly converted into muscular spasm, more or less general. A slight current of air, in tetanus, is sufficient to excite general spasm. Miiller remarks that, in such states of the cord, the reflex actions excited by stimulating the nerves themselves are much less than those produced by excitation of the surface. The readiness with which a physical change, induced in one part of the centre, is propagated to others, whether above or below it, is due no doubt to the vesicular matter. An experiment made by Van Deen illustrates this statement. If, in an animal poisoned by strychnine, the cord be divided in its entire length along the median line, leaving only a slight bridge of grey matter, stimuli applied to any part of the surface will exhibit as extensive reactions as if the cord were entire. It is evident that the only medium of communication between the oppo- site halves must be the small portion of vesi- cular matter left undivided. Impressions conveyed to the cord by the pos- terior roots of any of its nerves, may be reflected to the corresponding motor nerves, and cause movement, or may extend irregularly along the posterior horns of grey matter and stimulate the nerves implanted in them, and thus give rise to new sensations, which may be referred to other and even distant parts of the body or to new motions. The hypothesis under consideration affords us an explanation, more satisfactory than any other, of the paralytic state of the sphincter ani in brain disease, already referred to, as well as in that of the spinal cord. This muscle is certainly chiefly under the influence of the will. In ordinary cases of diseased brain, where the lesion is confined to one side, the centre of volition is not sufficiently impaired to affect its influence upon the sphincter. In graver lesions, however, although the will may still continue to exert its control upon one side of the body, it loses its power over the sphincter, which is not excitable by any stimulus. In disease of the spinal cord, there is paralysis of the sphinc- ters if the lesion involveasufticient portion of the cord's substance,in whatever region of the cord it may exist. Even when the lesion is situate high up in the neck, or in the dorsal region, leaving