NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 100 LARYNX. Syn. Gr. Xa.%vy%, from Xugvyy^v (clamo); Fr. Larynx ; Germ. KehlkopJ ; Ital. Laringe.—The larynx is a complex piece of mechanism resembling a kind of box, (plvis cava,) composed of an assemblage of carti- lages, the density and elasticity of which serve to protect its more delicate tissues, and to allow the free transmission of air for respira- tion. It is also exquisitely adapted for the production of voice. The larynx is situated in the mesial line, and opens superiorly into the pharynx, and inferiorly into the trachea. It occupies the anterior superior part of the neck, immediately below the os hyoides, and before the pharynx, which lies between it and the vertebral column. In front it is very superficial, being covered only by the sub-hyoidean muscles, and the common integuments. It admits of various kinds of motion: 1, those of elevation and depression parallel to the long axis of the body; 2, those complex movements within it which take place during respiration and the production of vocal sounds. The larynx considered with reference to the trachea, presents an enlargement denominated Fig. 18. The anterior transverse section of the larynx and trachea, a, the epiglottis ; b, b, the horns of the os hyoides ; c, c, the inferior thyro-arytenoid liga- ments (chordae vocales) ; d, d, the thyro-arytenoid muscles -, e, e, section of the thyroid cartilage; /, f, the superior boundaries of the ventricles ; g,g, section of the cricoid ; h, the trachea ; I, I, the ventricles. the caput aspera asteria, or the head of the trachea. The absolute volume of the larynx varies with the age and sex of the individual: its magnitude is much more considerable in men than in women ; in the former it acquires an extraordinary developement at the age of puberty. In eunuchs, however, this enlarge- ment does not take place. The larynx does not represent any regular geometrical figure; it may be defined as an irregular, inverted, truncated cone, whose sec- tions at the apex and base are elliptical, but approaching nearly to a circle at its junction with the trachea. This organ is perfectly symmetrical, which, however, applies to one of its sections only, viz. that of its mesial plane, or axis major; consequently, all the others must be unsym- metrical: the section made at right angles to it, or in its axis minor, gives the relative situa- tion of its internal mechanism, as in Jigs. 18 and 19, which should be carefully studied, with reference to the physiology of this organ. fig. 19. The posterior view. The letters c, H, e, g, h, re- present corresponding sections of the same parts ; b, b, the arytenoid cartilages invested by mucous membrane ; n, the pharynx laid open. The larynx is composed of several structures, which may be classed as follows : 1, the car- tilages ; 2, the ligaments ; 3, the muscles ; 4, the mucous membrane ; 5, the mucous glands; 6, the arteries and veins; and, lastly, the nerves. The cartilages of the larynx are nine in