961 PISCES. which does not exist at all upon the opposite side of the head, while anteriorly the anterior frontals (2) and the nasal bone (20) complete this part of the face. An orbital cavity is thus constructed upon the right or upper side of the head of the Pleuronectidee, which suffices for the lodgment of the two eyes, which thus take the only position in which both could be made useful.* Another equally remarkable arrangement is observable in the construction of the jaws of the Pleuronectida?, which are in many genera very unequally developed on the two sides of the median line, only in this case the prepon- derance of developement is just the reverse of what exists in the orbital portion of the face, for here the bones of the right or upper side are small, while those of the left or inferior half are of considerably greater size and strength. Moreover, the former are but sparingly fur- nished with teeth, while the latter support the chief part of the dental apparatus; so that by this structure the mouth becomes twisted toward the ground, and the teeth so disposed as to work most effectually in that direction. In the Syngnathidoe, Ostracions, and other Fishes, where the exoskeleton is inordinately developed, so as to form a suit of bony armour in which the exterior of the body is completely covered, the endoskeleton is proportionately weak and imperfectly formed, many of the Fig. 494. bones remaining in a rudimentary condition. This is well seen in the osteology of the Fly- ing Hippocamp, (Pegasus draco, fig. 494,) where the bones both of the head and trunk seem to perform quite a secondary part as contrasted with the dense tegumenlary frame- work covering the body. The whole face seems * The above description of the structure of the face in the Pleuronectid* is derived from a disarti- culated skull of the Halibut, contained in the Mu- seum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. vol. nr. to be composed of a kind of snout (a), derived from the external armour of the head, in which the orbits (/*) are excavated, the intermaxillary bones (tf) and the lower jaw (e) alone being recognisable. The gill covers (/i) belong to the exoskeleton, while the hyoid apparatus (f) and branchial arches (g) are but very imperfectly formed. The osseous zone that sustains the pectoral fins consists of a single bone, which is so consolidated with the tegumentary skeleton as completely to separate the abdominal cavity from the branchial chambers; and in the piece m, which forms the basis of the fin itself, the usual divisions are quite undiscernible. The vertebra?, both of the back and tail, (o, q,) are reduced to mere bony rings, while the pelvic circle, (p,) that supports the abdominal fins, (/,) is, like the rest of the skeleton, firmly con- nected with the external bony armour. In the construction of the anterior extremities a few peculiarities may be specified. Certain genera, more especially the Salmo- nida and the Cyprinidit, have attached to the ra- dius and ulna upon their inner side a third bone, which by its anterior extremity is connected to the anterior margin of the os humeri, thus forming a kind of buttress to support the fin. In the Silurida there likewise exist three bones in the fore-arm which at an early period be- come consolidated to each other, probably on account of the great strength requisite in that race of Fishes to support the great spinous ray of the pectoral fin. In the Mura-nidd', where there are but two bones, these are suspended to the arch of the shoulder at the point of junction be- tween the scapula and the humeral bone. In species that have no pectoral fins the radius and ulna do not exist. There still remains to be noticed a long styliform bone generally composed of two pieces (fig. 437, 49, 50, p. 827, i^A and Jig. 493,10), of which the upper piece (49), more or less flattened in shape, is I suspended from the os humeri (48), to \J the posterior and superior part of the inner surface of which it is adherent. This styliform bone runs backwards along the side of the body behind the pectoral fin, and is plunged to a greater or less extent amongst the flesh.* Some anatomists have regarded this process as the homo- logue of the clavicle, but from the posi- tion which itoccupies, running backwards, it seems rather to represent the coraeoid bone, which is in this case lost among the muscles on account of the want of a sternum to which it might be articulated. It sometimes happens that this bone unites with that of the opposite side, and occasionally is of such length and strength as to reach backwards as far as the commencement of the anal fin. A not less curious disposition of this bone is observed in Batrachus, where the supe- rior division extends upwards beyond the hu- merus to be connected with the spinous process of the first vertebra. * Cuv. Hist, des Poissons. 3 Q