MOTION. 453 Fig. 246. leg moves rather oftener during the same pe- riod in trotting than in walking, or as 6 to 5. The velocity acquired by moving the legs in pairs, instead of consecutively, depends on the circumstance that in the trot each leg rests on the ground during a short interval, and swings during a long one, whilst in walking each leg swings a short, and rests a long period. The undulations arising from the projection of the trunk in the trot are chiefly in the vertical plane ; in the walk they are in the horizontal. In fig. 246, as designed by Bewick, and adapted to our purpose, we observe that the vertical line passing through the base of sup- port, lies not only behind the centre of gravity of the horse, but also of the centre of the mass of the rider, consequently the anterior legs will bear much the greatest proportion of tiie burthen. The gallop.—The gallop may be divided into three kinds, which may be distinguished by the number and order in which the feet happen to reach the ground. When the horse begins the gallop on the right, the left hind leg reaches the ground first; the right hind and left fore legs next, simultaneously, and the right fore leg last; this is termed the gallop of three beats. In the gallop where the four legs strike the ground successively, the left hind foot reaches the ground first, the right hind foot second, the left fore foot third, and the right fore foot fourth ; this is the gallop of four heats, but it is not the kind of movement adapted for great speed.* The gallop wherein the legs follow the same order as in the trot, —that is, the left hind and right fore feet reach the ground simultaneously, then the right hind and left fore feet;—is the order in which horses move their feet in racing, where their greatest speed is required, and is called the gallop of two beats.f In the amble, the two legs on one side rest on the ground, and propel the centre of gravity forwards, whilst those on the oppo- site side are raised and advanced, and on taking a new position on the plane of motion, the former pair are raised and advanced in a similar manner: these successive actions are accompanied by a considerable lateral motion. The amble is the pace peculiar to the Giraffe: * The gallop of four heats is often denominated " the Canter." t See Sainbell. in the horse it is only effected by artificial training. Borelli has erroneously described the order of the motions of the feet of the horse in walking; he states that the fore and hind feet on the same side move first, and then the fore and hind feet on the opposite side : these views, however, differ from the order as de- scribed by Aristotle,* and they have since been opposed by Barthez and Muller, whose opinions coincide with those which, after repeated observations, have been here intro- duced. In the gallop, the centre of gra- vity moves in a vertical plane, and describes the path of a projectile. The space passed over on the plane of motion is equal to the hori- zontal velocity of the centre of gravity multiplied by the time.f According to Sainbell, the cele- brated horse, Eclipse, when galloping at liberty, and with its greatest speed, passed over the space of twenty-five feet at each stride or leap, which he repeated 2| times in a second, being nearly four miles in six minutes and two se- conds. The race-horse, Flying Childers, was computed to have passed over eighty-two feet and a half in a second, or nearly a mile in a minute. Sainbell has given the geometrical proportions of Eclipse, together with the angles of in- clination and range of motion of the joints of the four extremities. He states that a consi- derable angle of inclination of the shoulder- joint, as well as an angular disposition of the limbs, are essentially necessary for great speed. Sir C. Bell,| however, states, " that the speed of a horse depends on the strength of his loins and hind-quarters, and what is required in the fore-legs is strength in the extensor tendons ;'! but surely this hypothesis cannot be correct, or the brewer's dray-horse would be the fleetest. The horse is one of the most useful and most perfectly organized quadrupeds, combining great strength with speed. The length, strength, and angular disposition of the bones of the legs, the power of the muscles, the structure of the joints, the lengthened metatarsal and me- tacarpal bones, the consolidation of the pha- langes, and the structure of the expanded foot, all conspire to perfect the geometrical proportions of this valuable quadruped. Having now given in detail the various movements of the horse, we shall briefly pass to the other orders of Mammalia. Marsupialia.—In the Kangaroo, we observe a greater disproportion between the length of the anterior and posterior extremities than is found in any other quadruped, the length of the legs to that of the arms being as 38^ to 17$ inches,§ or rather more than two to one. This * After the right of the fore feet they move the left of the hind feet. Afterwards they move the left of the fore feet and right of the hind feet. See Taylor's Aristotle on the Progressive Motion of Animals, chap. xiv. f See eq. 1. \ Library of Useful Knowledge, Art. Animal Mechanics. § These measures are taken from a skeleton in the Hunterian Museum. Some variation will occur in the absolute length of the extremities, arising from the age and magnitude of the animal ; but the ratio of the length of the extremities in the