ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 814 with other compounds being sufficient to vitiate the conclusions deducible from our experi- ments. Having ascertained the purity of our substance, the next care is to ensure its com- plete desiccation. For this purpose the fol- lowing plan, recommended by Liebig, will be found the most efficient (fig. 429). A small quantity of the material to be dried is placed in an inverted syphon-tube (c), the bend of which is plunged into a vessel (D), contain- ing water gradually heated to the boiling point. When plain water is used, the tem- perature of course will not rise above 212°; but by substituting for it different saline solu- tions we may at pleasure obtain any degree of heat between 212° and 300°, according to the nature of the compound to be analysed. A current of dry air is made to pass over the substance by connecting one limb of the sy- phon with a tube containing chloride of calcium (A), and the other with a vessel (E) closed at top, excepting the aperture by which it is con- nected with the syphon-tube, and filled with water, which is allowed to run out at the bottom with a speed regulated by a stop-cock (/'), the place of the liquid being supplied by air, which has passed over the chloride of cal- cium and then through the syphon-tube. Vo- latile liquids that are unchanged by distillation should be allowed to stand two or three days upon fragments of fused chloride of calcium; the liquid should then be decanted and dis- tilled in a small retort; in other cases, as in the examination of fats or fixed oils, it may be more convenient to dry the material in a watch- glass placed in an ordinary water-bath or the hot- water oven previously described. The further progress of the analysis will vary according to the form and composition of the substance to be examined. We shall describe the methods of analysing— 1. A solid, which does not contain nitrogen. 2. A fluid, which does not contain nitrogen. 3. A substance, which does contain nitrogen. 1. Analysis of a solid not containing nitrogen. The combustible which answers best in these experiments is charcoal; it is the least expen- sive, and very manageable, but dusty. Spirits of wine or pyroxylic spirit, no doubt, are cleaner, but their expense is a great objec- tion. Gas has been tried by myself and others in a variety of ways, but though some modi- fications of burner answer tolerably well, it is not on the whole to be recommended. The best furnace to be used with the char- coal is represented at A, fig. 430, and is made of stout sheet-iron bent into the form of a trough, open at one end; the plate which closes the other is perforated with an aperture three-quarters of an inch in diameter, to allow the passage of the combustion tube; the fur- nace is about twenty inches long, five inches at top, two inches and three-quarters at bottom, and three inches high. Transverse slits are made along the floor at intervals of two inches for draught, and between each are rivetted ver- tical stiff pieces of sheet-iron one inch high, terminating in a concave edge above, for the support of the combustion tube. The appa- ratus may rest on bricks during the operation, as represented in the wood-cut. The tube in which the mixture is burned, the combustion orretort tube, (fig.AZO, a, b, c,) should be of difficultly fusible glass free from lead, about fifteen inches long and half an inch in diameter: the hard Bohemian glass answers the purpose perfectly. The tube may on cer- tain occasions be drawn out into a fine but strong tail bent upwards at an obtuse angle, and the mouth should be smoothed by making it red hot in the flame of the blowpipe, so that a cork need not be torn in adjusting it. The apparatus for containing the chloride of calcium which collects the water, or drying tube, is conveniently made of the shape de- picted (fig. 430, B): it consists of a tube about half an inch in diameter and four inches long. Upon one end is blown a bulb, to contain a larger portion of the chloride, and from the bulb a strong tube of small diameter extends for an inch and a half. The chloride of cal- cium with which it is filled must not be fused, but should be prepared merely by evaporating the solution of the chloride to dryness by a strong sand heat. A porous mass is thus ob- tained, which does not crystallize by absorbing- moisture, as the fused variety does, to the de- struction of the tube that contains it. In order to charge the apparatus a few fibres of cotton wool are put into the bulb, and by sucking air through the small end adjusted over the aper- ture of the fine tube to prevent any minute particles from falling out: into the apparatus to Fig- 430. Liebiifs apparatus for the combustion of organic bodies. A, sheet iron trough or furnace containing the retort tube a, b, c, and resting on the bricks E E. K, the drying tube charged with chloride of calcium, or pumice stone moistened with sulphuric acid. e, the potash bulbs ; d, caoutchouc connector. D. the suction tube, shewing the mode of its adjustment when used for draw- ing air through the apparatus at the termination of the experiment.