279 MARSUPIALIA. another twenty-three. In two species of Po- toroo there are twenty-four caudal vertebrae, but the relative length of the tail differs in these by one-third, in consequence of the different length of the bodies of the vertebra. In Hj/psipri/m7ius ursinus there are more than twenty-six caudal vertebras. In the great Kan- garoo there are twenty-two caudal vertebra. In Bennett's Kangaroo there are twenty-four caudal vertebra, which are remarkable for their size and strength. In the Pkalangista vulpina, there are twenty-one caudal vertebrae. In the Petaurus macrurus I find twenty-eight caudal vertebrae, while in the Pet.sciureus there are but twenty ; the bodies of the middle caudal vertebrae in both these species are remarkably long and slender. The Myrmecobius has twenty-three caudal vertebrae. In the Dasi/urus Maugei I find twenty caudal vertebrae; in Didelp/iis cun- crivora there are thirty-one; in the Virginian Opossum there are twenty-two caudal vertebra?. In the latter species the spinal canal is con- tinued along the first six; beyond these the superiorspinous processes cease to be developed, and the body gives off, above, only the two anterior and two posterior oblique processes, which are rudimental, and no longer subservient to the mutual articulation of the vertebra?. The transverse processes are single on the first five caudal vertebrae, and are nearly the breadth of the body, but diminish in length from the second caudal, in which vertebrae they are gene- rally the longest. In the other vertebra? a short obtuse process is developed at both extremities of the body on eitfier side, so that the dilated articular surfaces W the pi^tejtojlcaudal ver- tebra.' present a quadrate tisure^F In most of the Marsupraf^wYiich have a long tail, this appendage is subject to pressure on some part of the under surface. In the Kanga- roo (jig. 103,) this must obviously take place to a considerable degree when the tail is used as a fifth extremity, to aid in supporting or pro- pelling the body. In the Potoroos and Bandi- coots the tail also transmits to the ground part of the superincumbent pressure of the body by its under surface, when the animal is erect, but it is not used as a crutch in locomotion as in the Kangaroos. In the Phalangers and Opossums the tail is pre- hensile, and the vessels situated at the under surface are liable to compression when the animal hangs suspended by the tail. To protect these vessels, therefore, as well as to afford additional attachment to the muscles which execute the various movements for which the tail is adapted in the above mentioned Marsupials,V-shaped bones, or inferior arches (hoemapophyses) are developed, of various forms and sizes, and are placed opposite the articulations of the vertebrae, a situation which isanalo- Fig. 103. 104. gous to that of the superior arches in the sacral region of the spine in Birds, and in the dorsal region of the spine in the Chelonian Reptiles. The two crura of the sub-vertebral arch embrace and defend the bloodvessels, and the spinous process continued from their point of union presents a variety of forms in different genera. In Cook's Phalanger I find the haemapophysescommence between the second and third caudal ver- tebrae, increase in length to the fourth, and then progressively diminish to the end of the tail; the penultimate and anteepnulti- mate presenting a permanent sepa- ration of the lateral moieties, and an absence of the spine (fig. 104.) In the Virginian Opossum and Vulpine Phalanger they are sim- ple, about a quarter of an inch in length where longest, and directed obliquely forwards, and diminish in size as they approach the extre- mity of the tail. In the Potoroos the extremity of the long anterior spines is dilated and produced both backwards and forwards; the posterior smaller ones become ex- panded laterally, and give off similar but shorter processes from each side, whereby the base of support is extended. In the Great Kangaroo the spine of the first subvertebral arch only is simple and elongated, the extremities of the others are expanded, and in some jut out into four obtuse pro- cesses, two at the sides, and two at the anterior and posterior sur- faces. In a carefully prepared a \ • in ' ft r tun,- _ _ I 1 dal vertebra, skeleton or Mucropus Bcnneltn in the Museum of the Zoological Society, I found these inferior spines want- 7'erminal cau- Mavrnjjus cleyans.