NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 105 trachea in conjunction with the crico-thyroid muscle. The nature and position of the arti- culation of the thyroid, with the cricoid, render the force of this ligament of great utility and importance. The Intend crico-thyroid ligament, lig. crico- thyroid laterale, arises immediately at the side of the crico-arytenoid articulation. Some fas- ciculi, according to Cruveilhier and Lauth, are attached to the bases of the arytenoids, others are reflected horizontally forwards to the in- ferior margin of the cricoid. It is bounded externally by the thyro-arytenoideus and crico- arytenoideus lateralis, and lined internally by the mucous membrane of the larynx. The crico-arytenoid articulation.—The ob- lique articulating convex surface of the cricoid is received in a corresponding channel or groove at the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The ligament arises from the cricoid, and ra- diates both anteriorly and posteriorly round the base of the arytenoid cartilage; a fasciculus is reflected along the base of its anterior mem- brane behind the attachment of the thyroary- tenoid ligament. The crico-arytenoid liga- ment is thick and strong, yet sufficiently loose to permit a diversity of motion. Some anato- mists divide the ligament into anterior and posterior. The articulation is lined and lubri- cated by a synovial membrane. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Syn. Chor- da vocales, Ferrein. Slimmb'dnder, Germ. These ligaments, as their name implies, con- nect the thyroid with the arytenoid cartilages, and are instrumental in the production of voice. There are on each side two vocal cords, a su- perior and an inferior; the cavities between these ligaments are termed the ventricles of the larynx. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or, as they are often denominated, " the true ligaments of the glottis," are much thicker and stronger than the superior: they present the form of nearly rectangular parallelograms, and are stretched horizontally across the long axis of the larynx, from the anterior horizontal tubercle of the arytenoids, to the angle formed by the junction of the wings of the thyroid (c, fig. 27). On their outer side these ligaments are connected with the thyro-arytenoid mus- cles ; their anterior extremities are inserted into the thyroid, the posterior to the arytenoid car- tilages ; the internal margins are free to vibrate. On exposing them by the removal of the mu- cous membrane they are found less than their apparent volume. Immediately after death they are semi-transparent, very elastic, and composed of parallel fibres. They are con- nected with, and form a continuation of the ligamentum crico-thyroideum lateralis (k,ftg. 24). The length of the vocal ligaments varies with the general dimensions of the larynx : in the adult male they are much longer than in the female. In infancy they are very short, and increase from that period to the age of puberty in an arithmetical ratio. Thus, if at one year old their length in parts of an inch is 0,2500, at five years they will be 0,3333, at nine 0,4166, and at fourteen 0,4999: these are close approximations. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments or superior vocal cords are, in contra-distinction to the inferior, denominated (though incorrectly) the false ligaments: they are of less thickness and strength than the inferior ligaments, and are further removed from the axis of the larynx (/, fig. 24). They arise from the internal angle of the thyroid, and are inserted into the middle of the anterior superior prominence of the arytenoid cartilages (fig. £4); they are composed of a few slender fasciculi of elastic fibres, approaching less nearly the mesial plane than the inferior ligaments; they appear more prominent, in consequence of their form- ing the roof of the ventricles. They are in the same plane as the aryteno-epiglottic muscle, and are connected with the fibres of the lateral crico-thyroid ligaments. According to M. Lauth there is a connexion between the crico-thyroid, the lateral crico- thyroid, and thyro-arytenoid ligaments by three fasciculi, one of which is vertical, one hori- zontal, and one ascending (g, k, n, fig. 24), the first of these being the crico-thyroid; the second the lateral; the third connects the thyro- arytenoid with the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, and lines the bottom of the ventricles. M. Lauth considers also that the - thyroepi- glottic, the hyo-epiglottic, and glosso-epiglottic ligaments are composed of the same elastic tissue. Muller and Cruveilhier concur in these views. They certainly appear of the same colour and texture under the microscope, and undergo the same change by exposure to the atmosphere: they also possess the same cohe- sive elastic properties. The strength of the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments is so great that they will tear away the cartilage to which they are attached without being injured, and will support the force of many pounds weight. Muscles.—The motions of the larynx are exceedingly complex, and are performed by two sets of muscles, which are divided into two classes:—1, the extrinsic; and, 2, the intrin- sic muscles. The muscles which elevate the larynx are the digastrici, stylo-hyoidei, mylo- hyoidei, genio-hyoidei, and hyo-glossi, and those pharyngeal muscles which are inserted into the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The muscles which antagonize these and lower the larynx are the sterno-hyoidei, the omo-hyoidti, the sterno-thyroidei, and the thyro-hyoidei. The os hyoides is the centre of motion for the action of these muscles. (See Neck, Muscles of the.) We shall here confine our description to the Intrinsic muscles of the larynx, Syn.; mus- cles intrinsiques, Cruveilhier.—The muscles of this division comprise those acting exclusively on the larynx itself. There are four pairs and one single: 1, the crico-thyroidei; 2, the crico-arytenoidei postici; 3, crico-arylenoidei laterales; 4, tliyro-urytenoidei; and, 5, aryte- noideus, which, from a difference in the direc- tion of certain of its fibres, is divided into the oblique and transverse. Independently of these, there are some muscular fasciculi, named the thyro-epigluttidei and the aryteno-epiglotlidei. The crico-thyroidei.—These are very short,