PISCES. 989 shape, but sometimes, as for example in the Sturgeon, resembling the tricuspid valve of the heart in Mammalia, having chorda? tendinese passing from its margin to the muscular walls of the ventricle. In other cases again, as in the Sun-fish (Orthagoriscus Mula), the auricular aperture is guarded by four valves, two small semilunar valves being placed at right angles with and on the auricular side of the two large semilunar valves that usually exist in this situation. The branchial artery (fig. 522, B) which arises from the ventricle is very different in character from an artery of ordinary appearance, its walls being exceedingly thick and muscular, and fre- quently fasciculated internally; its cavity is more- over dilated so as sometimes to equal in capacity that of the ventricle itself. This dilated portion of the branchial artery, to which the name of Fig. 522. Heart a?id principal vessels of Perch, bulbus arteriosus has been given, is in fact almost equivalent to a second ventricular cham- ber, and doubtless by its contractile power forcibly assists in propelling the blood through the gills. The origin of the bulbus arteriosus is always guarded by strong valves, of which there are fre- quently only two of a semilunar form, but occa- sionally the valve is made up of four semilunar membranous folds. But it is not only at the commencement of the bulbus arteriosus that valves exist, these defences being frequently multiplied in this portion of the circulating system of Fishes in a very extraordinary manner. Thus, in the Stur- geon there are three series of semilunar valves, two at the commencement and one at the ter- mination of the bulb, the last being the strong- est and most perfectly formed. Those at the base are much thickened at their margins, which are attached to the parietes of the bulb by small chorda tendinea. The two lower valves are each made up of four semilunar folds, whilst in the upper one there are five. In the Skate (Raia Batis) there are five dis- tinct sets of valves, increasing in size to the last row, which is at the termination of the bulb. The most probable reason of this unusual fortification of the valvular apparatus of the branchial artery in Fishes is that, owing to the depth to which some of them descend or at which many races dwell habitually, as for ex- ample, the ground-frequenting Skates, the pres- sure upon the surface of the gills must render the passage of the blood over the branchiae very difficult, so that unusual care has been taken in strengthening the bulbus arteriosus itself, and likewise the valvular structures in its interior. The bulbus arteriosus ultimately resolves itself into the branchial artery, which gives off the trunks that supply the venous blood to the gills. Vascular system.—The general course of the blood during its circuit through the body of a fish has been already described in a preceding article (see Circulation); we shall therefore limit ourselves in this place to describe the dis- position of the principal vas- cular trunks, and the manner in which the circulating fluid is distributed to different parts of the system. The vessels formed by the division of the £v branchial artery run in a deep ), groove along the convexity of each branchial arch external to • the branchial vein, which runs ' 1 hi (Ik- -nine groove, taking an \ * opposite course. The bran- ^\%rf9^(i^|| chial vein, as we have already j - < n, is formed by collrol mg 5^ f ^ /"IJA ill the venules from the bran- - \ - - Yahy c'''a' huniiiffi of the corre- ^^^^^^^^ sponding gill, and thus carries only the blood which has un- dergone the process of respira- tion. The branchial artery and the branchial vein are therefore placed under precisely inverse circumstances with respect to each other; the former dimi- nishing continually in size as it mounts upwards towards the dorsal aspect of the gills by giving off arterioles to the branchial laminae ; the latter increasing in bulk as it proceeds in the same direction, owing to the constant accession of little veins derived from the fringes of the gills. In the Skates there are two branchial veins to each gill, which, however, ultimately become united into one trunk. No sooner do the branchial veins issue from the dorsal extremities of the branchial arches than they assume the texture and the function of arteries, and ultimately all joining with each other and with those of the opposite side, they constitute by their union the aorta, by which the blood is distributed to the general system. Before their union into a single aortic trunk there are arterial vessels given off from the branchial veins themselves; thus the ante- rior give off, even before they leave the branchial arch, several vessels to supply the head and ad- jacent parts, while the heart itself and the neigh- bouring region beneath the throat likewise re- ceive their supply of arterial blood through a twig derived immediately from a branchial vein. The aorta, formed, as has been stated, by the union of all the branchial veins without the inter-