713 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomv.) monly affect the tissues of the same kind oc- curring in other parts of the body. Inflammatory affections of the dura mater are exceedingly rare, and occur chiefly in connexion with wounds or injuries of the spine, or in extension of disease from the bones. Occa- sionally but very rarely we find osseous or cartilaginous deposits upon it, which are most obvious on its arachnoid surface. Blood is sometimes, but not frequently, effused externally to it, and effusions of serous fluid are still more rare. Such effusions, from the usually depen- dent position of the spinal canal, and from the large venous plexus which exists around the dura mater, are very likely to be pseudo-morbid, resulting from the gravitation of the fluids after death. Cancerous or fungoid tumours may originate from the dura mater, or may arise externally and grow to it afterwards. Tuber- cles may form between the dura mater and its arachnoid lining. When a deficiency of more or less of the posterior osseous wall of the spinal canal occurs, we find a corresponding dilatation of the dura mater and arachnoid sac, which, being filled with water, causes an external tumour, consti- tuting what has been called Hi/drorachis, the consequence of spina bifida. These tumours are altogether dependent on the congenital imperfection/of the bones of the spine, and whatever peculiar disposition of the spinal cord or its nerves may be found within them is due to an arrest of or a disturbance in the process of developement of those parts. The details of the anatomy of these tumours will be found in the article Spike. The arachnoid.—The spinal arachnoid exhi- bits marksof the inflammatory process more fre- quently than the d ura mater. But in neither mem- brane does this slate of disease occur often, ex- cept as a complication of injury or of a morbid stateof other parts,either of thevertebral column or of the spinal cord itself. The signs of an inflamed state of this membrane are lymph effused on its free surface, recent, or indurated causing more or less thickening. Adhesions be- tween corresponding parts of the two arach- noid layers are also a good indication of a previously existing inflammation. But care must be taken not to mistake the adhesion, which is often found between points of these membranes, for inflammatory adhesion. The former occurs in minute points, and is probably a result of drying of the membranes at the points of contact; the latter is always ac- companied by the formation of new matter which forms the medium of union between the layers. Cartilaginous spots are by no means unfre- quently found on the arachnoid membrane, chiefly in connection with its visceral layer. They are generally small detached lamina thoroughly incorporated with themembrane, rarely exceeding in size the flat surface of a split pea, more fre- quently much smaller. They generally occur on the posterior surface of the arachnoid. I have seen such deposits in cases where there were no previous symptoms to denote any affection of the central nervous system, and I am disposed VOL. 111. to believe that such deposits, separated as they must be from the surface of the cord, are not likely to occasion much if any irritation to that organ. They are found mostly in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Sometimes spots of bone, of similar size and shape, are found scattered over the membrane. The pia mater.—The spinal pia mater being the seat of the vascular ramifications which con- tribute to the nutrition of the cord, is also sub- ject to congestions often depending on causes quite extraneous to the spinal canal or cord. Thus the congestions which are produced in animals drowned, or asphyxiated in any other way, exist in the vessels of this membrane. The most frequent cause of congestion in these vessels, however, is the position of the corpse after death. After deaths, preceded by violent convulsions, there is always congestion of the vessels of the pia mater. But this congestion must be regarded as a consequence, not as a cause of the convulsions. The holding of the breath, which accompanies continued convul- sions, gives rise to a very general congestion of the venous system. When the congestion is very considerable, it may occasion rupture of bloodvessels and effusion of«blood into the sub-arachnoid cavity. This constitutes a form of spinal apoplexy, which is apt to follow concussion of the cord, caused by a fall or by a blow inflicted upon the back. It may follow any of those diseases which are accompanied by convulsions—tetanus, hydro- phobia, epilepsy, cerebral apoplexy. Inflammatory affections of the membranes, deposits of tubercle or other foreign matter which may cause induration of the cord, have their primary seat among the vessels of the pia mater. Inflammation of the membranes is more apt to occur among children than in adults. Abnormal anatomy of the spinal cord.—The absence of this organ (amyelia) occurs chiefly in anencephalous foetuses. In such cases the posterior wall of the spinal canal is often defi- cient, and the canal is occupied by a reddish, vascular pulpy substance. It is a question whether the absence of the cord, in such cases, is to be attributed to a real defect of its deve- lopement or to its destruction while yet in a very delicate semi-fluid state, by the formation of a dropsical effusion, either around it or in the canal or ventricle which exists in it at an early period of its developement. This latter explanation is rendered probable by the fact that all the recorded cases are of foetuses which had reached an advanced period of intra-uterine developement; and in some of them move- ments had been distinctly felt by the mothers, which could not have taken place with a com- bined or definite character without the existence of the cord. And in some of the records it is affirmed that the children lived some hours and exhibited movements and even signs of sensa- tion, or at least of excitability to stimuli. Such phenomena, if true, leave us no alterna- tive but to suppose that the whole cord could not have been absent—some portion must have existed as the centre of these movements,