318 MARSUPIALIA. formation, and at the same time to have been coincident with a completely divided uterus.* It is not unusual to find the vaginae of the Kangaroo distended with a gelatino-mucous adhesive secretion containing hard irregularly shaped fibrous masses. One of these bodies, which was found in the mesial cul-de-sac of a Kangaroo, was described and figured by Sir Everard Homef as the vertebral column and occipital bone of a foetus ; and his first theory of marsupial generation appears to have been much influenced by this belief. Professor Leuckart,} who found similar bodies in the vaginal tubes of a Kangaroo, compares them to a mola, or false conception, but observes that there was nothing in their structure that would permit him to form a conclusion that they were parts of a foetus. In the Wombat the lining membrane of the vaginal culs-de-sac is greatly increased by innumerable irregular rugae and papilla?, the urethro-sexual canal is lined by a thick epi- thelium, and its surface is broken into count- less oblique rugae and coarse papillae; the surface immediately surrounding the urethral orifice, which in this as in other Marsupials is close to the vaginal orifices, is comparatively smooth. The clitoris is situated in a preputial recess near the outlet of the uro-genital passage : it is simple in those marsupials that have a simple glans penis, but is bifid in those which have the glans divided : and in the Opossum each division of the glans clitoridis is grooved. Development of the Mursupiulia.—Before proceeding to detail the present received doc- trine of the generation and development of the Marsupialia, it may not be unprofitable to take a rapid glance at the different opinions that have prevailed at different periods respecting this interesting and difficult part of their economy. The minute size of the young of the Ameri- can Opossum when first received in the mar- supium, their pendulous attachment to the nipples, and perhaps the mode in which the nipples themselves are developed, gave rise, among the earlier observers, to a notion that the young were originally formed by and from those parts. And this belief was not only current then, as now, among the unscientific settlers in the colo- nies where the marsupial animals are common, but was entertained likewise by the best in- formed Naturalists of those times. Thus the learned Marcgrave, in his account of the Opos- sum, says, when speaking of the marsupial pouch, " Hac bursa ipse uterus est Animulis, nam alium non habet, uti ex sectione illius com- pieri; in hue semen concipitur et catuli forman- tur." § And Piso repeats the assertion more strongly. " JEx reiteratis horum aninialium sectionibus alium non invenimus uterum prater * Dr. Purcell, Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixiv. p. 478. t Philos. Trans, vol. lxxxv. p. 228. % Meckel's Archiv fur Physiologie, torn. viii. p. 442. $ Hist. Rerum Naturaliura, Brasil. 1648. hanc bwsam, in qua semen concipitur et catuli Jbrmantur. Quos deinde quinos velsenos simul circunrfert, mobiles, perfectos, sed depiles, udeo- que pertinaciter uberibus affixos, ut a perpetuo suctu vix aveUantur, ante.quam permittente matre ad pastum ipsi egrediantur." * The assertion that the young grow from the nipple was again repeated in regard to the Philander Opossum (Didelphys Philander) by Valentin in his History of Amboyna, and has even been revived at a comparatively recent period.f Some glimpses of the truth were ob- tained, however, before the time of the authors who have been last quoted. Hernandez, for example, speaks of the generation of the Opossum almost in the same words in which CuvierJ sums up the then existing know- ledge of the subject in the second edition of his ' Regne Animal.' " Quaternos, quinosve parit catulos, quos utero conceptos, editosque in tucem, alvi capacitate quadam, durn adhuc par- vuli sunt, claudit ac servat."§ And Maffeius more particularly describes the attachment of the young to the nipple. " Ulud autem mirum in Cerigonibus'' (Opossums) " ex ejus alvo duae dependent veluti manticae, in iis catulos cir- cumfert, et quidem adeo pertinaciter suoquem- que uberi affixos, ut a perpetuo suctu non avellantur, antequam ad pastum ipsi per se progredi valeant."|| Nevertheless, as the uterine gestation is here simply alluded to without any detailed obser- vations in proof of it, the assertion was compara- tively of little value in a scientific point of view; and the gemmiparous theory, supported by Marcgrave aud Piso, seems to have been pre- valent at the time when Dr. Tyson first turned his attention to this subject. The discovery of the true uterus, recorded by that learned and accurate anatomist in the 20th volume of the Philosophical Transactions, p. 105, was the first step towards a correct theory of the generation of the marsupial ani- mals. It necessarily caused him to reject the gemmiparous theory, but, as often happens in such cases, Tyson was led into the opposite or sceptical extreme; and he was also induced to doubt the really accurate statements of Her- * De Indiae utriusque Re Naturali et Medica, lib. v. c. 24, 1658. t See Geoff. St. Hilaire, in the Journal Comple- mentaire du Diet, des Sciences Medicales, torn. iii. p. 193 (1819) : " Si les animaux a bourse naissent aux tetiues de leur mere." X " La premiere de toutes leurs particularites est la production prematuree de leurs petits, qui naissent dans un etat de developpement a peine comparable a celui auquel des foetus ordinaires par- viennent quelques jours apres la conception. In- capables de mouvement, montrant a. peine des germes de membres et d'autres organes exterieures, ces petits s'attachent aux mamelles de leur mere et y restent fixes jusqu'ace qu'ils se soient developpcs au degre auquels les animaux naissent ordinaire- ment. Presque toujours la peau de 1'abdomen est disposee en forme de poche aiitoiir de ces mamelles, et ces petits si impart'aits y sont preserves, comme dans une seconde matrice." Regne Animal, 1829, vol. i. p. 172. i Hist. Mexican, lib. ix. p. 330. II Job. Petr. Maffeius, Hist. Indica.