805 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. The presence of copper is determined in the same way by incineration, treatment with nitric acid and sulphuretted hydrogen ; the resulting sulphuret is dissolved in nitric acid, and the oxide thrown down from the boiling solution by excess of caustic potash : it is ignited and weighed; 100 parts contain 80 of metallic copper. If the nitrate of copper be treated with ammonia instead of potash in excess, a beautiful transparent blue solution is obtained, which, when procured as just mentioned, is characteristic of the presence of copper. Mercury, arsenic, antimony, and a variety of other substances may occasionally be met with after poisoning with these bodies ; but abundant directions for their discovery are given in the works on Toxicology, and to these, and in particular to the excellent treatise of Dr. Christison, the reader is referred. B. Analysis of* animal solids. Solid matters, as tumours, concretions, and sediments, are best subjected to a preliminary test by the action of heat; the sediments are separated by filtration from the liquids in which they are deposited ; by ignition on plati- num foil of a few small fragments we observe either, 1. It is wholly or almost wholly dissipated, in which case it consists of, Cholesterin, which fuses and burns with flame; Uric acid, or } which are gradually dissi- TJrate ammonia, S pated, producing transient blackening of the foil around; Cystic oxide, which is consumed with a pe- culiar odour; Albumen, fibrin, or hairs, which swell up and burn with flame: 2. Or it blackens, leaving a less bulky re- sidue ; In which case it may be Urate of soda, potash, \ they leave an alka- Lime, .or magnesia, S line ash, which m the two first fuses at a red heat, or it may arise from a mixture of some of the preceding list with some of those that follow. 3. Or, lastly, it undergoes little or no change in bulk, when it is composed of Phosphates of the earths; Carbonate of lime, or magnesia; Oxalate of lime, which generally decrepi- tates. Having by these simple trials acquired some knowledge of the nature of the substance we have to deal with, we proceed to a more spe- cial examination. a. Cholesterin is the principal constituent of biliary calculi in the human subject, mixed with variable rjroportions of colouring matter. These calculi, when numerous, generally pre- sent facettes more or less flattened and po- lished ; when solitary, they often attain consi- derable bulk, and are usually crystalline and semitransparent on the surface. Before the blowpipe they fuse and burn with a bright smoky flame, leaving but little ash. Boiling alcohol dissolves the cholesterin, and on cool- ing deposits the greater part in pearly glisten- ing scales. Caustic potash dissolves the co- louring matter and leaves the cholesterin. This last reaction distinguishes it from other fats, and particularly from lithofellic acid, recently discovered as an occasional constituent of be- zoars and of gall-stones in the inferior animals; the lithofellic acid fuses at a higher tempera- ture than cholesterin, and separates from its alkaline solution as an insoluble fat on neu- tralizing by a stronger acid. b. Uric acid generally assumes the form of a reddish-brown crystalline sand, or of lighter- coloured rounded masses. Before the blow- pipe it blackens and burns away, leaving only a minute trace of ash, usually alkaline, owing to the presence of a very small quantity of lime or soda. The manner of applying nitric acid, so as to produce the characteristic colour from the decomposition of uric acid, has been al- ready mentioned. When powdered it dissolves completely in solution of potash by the aid of heat, and if the solution be supersaturated with hydrochloric acid, uric acid again preci- pitates in minute white crystals. The urates are much more soluble in hot water than uncombined uric acid : they form amorphous deposits usually of a light brown colour. Urate of ammonia before the blowpipe pre- sents phenomena resembling uric acid; when rubbed with solution of caustic potash, ammo- niacal fumes are emitted. In its other reac- tions, except that it is more soluble in boiling water, it closely resembles uric acid. Urate of soda is distinguished by the large proportion of fusible alkaline ash left on igni- tion after the application of a red heat; the residue dissolves with effervescence in hydro- chloric acid and uives no precipitate when this solution is treated with an alcoholic solution of chloride of platinum. If potash were present, it would be indicated by the formation of crys- tals on adding this test. Urate of lime occasionally accompanies uric acid ; the residue by incineration then yields the usual reactions of lime, such as a precipitate with oxalate of ammonia when added to a solution of the ash in acetic acid. c. Cystic oxide is wholly dissipated by heat, emitting a peculiar odour. It is soluble readily both in acids and alkalies, and is deposited in hexagonal plates by spontaneous evaporation of its ammoniacal solution. The peculiar form of its crystal is at once recognized by the em- ployment of the microscope. d. Albumen and fibrin are discovered by their solubility in diluted alkalies and in acetic acid. Neutralization causes a flocculent preci- pitate soluble in excess of acetic acid or of the alkalies; the acetic solution gives a precipitate on adding ferrocyanide of potassium. Before the blowpipe they swell up, leaving a bulky coal which burns with difficulty to a small white or yellowish ash; they always contain saline matter. Albumen and fibrin, in com- mon with all the compounds of protein, are further characterized by dissolving slowly in the concentrated acids; with sulphuric acid a