186 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. formes acini, in figuris ramosis et foliatis varie dispositis." Now the truth is, that this section is in the second stage of hepatic venous con- gestion, and the " figuris ramosis et foliatis" are simply the uncongested portions of the lobules, of a lighter colour than the rest, and presenting the foliated and ramous appearance which is common to this form of congestion. The " fines ductuum biliferorum elongati seu cylindriformes acini" are obviously imaginary. The dark lines in the centre of the foliated ra- mifications are small branches of the portal vein lodged in interlobular fissures. If the twigs given off by these branches be made to unite with each other, we shall then have the true form of the lobules. This has been done in Jig- 45, upon a part of Midler's drawing, for the purpose of shewing how the error has arisen, and how the form of the lobules may be restored. This appearance of the congested liver is by no means unfrequent in occurrence, and I subjoin a careful and accurate drawing of a similar arrangement in the human liver, (Jig- 46,) for the purpose of comparison with that of Muller. Fig. 46. c Section of a portion of liver exhibiting hepatic venous congestion in the second stage, carefully delineated from nature by Bagg, and intended to be compared with Matter's figure. a, The portal vein in an interlobular fissure, giv- ing off small twigs to adjoining fissures, and sur- rounded by the uncongested portion of the liver. b, The form of a few of the lobules is shewn, c, Ir- regular patches of uncongested liver, as in Muller's figure; the space in the centre of each being an interlobular space, d, Interlobular spaces. e,The congested portion of the liver. Coming from so high an authority as Muller, this figure has been copied without hesitation by several writers, together with the explanation given of it by the author. Mr. Grainger has introduced it into his article upon the glands in this Cyclopaedia, /?g. 217, page 485, and Mr. Carpenter has also given it a place in his recent excellent work* on physiology. In his text, * Principles of General and Comparative Phy- siology, 1839. the latter gentleman observes with regard to the figure:—" In the squirrel indeed these pro- longations may be distinctly seen, the blind sacs being cylindrical in form, and closely packed together." Hepatic venous congestion in its most com- mon form, viz., in the second stage, is the great stumbling-block of all anatomists who have engaged in the investigation of the minute anatomy of the liver; and it is under this head that I must now consider the views of Cruveilhier with regard to the supposed nor- mal anatomy of this organ. Isolated from the distribution of the vessels in the liver, he has described the form and arrangement of the lobules with sufficient accuracy ; but then it must be remembered that his description was written subsequently to the publication of the researches of Kiernan. But his conception of the structure of the lobules is completely erro- neous, for after combating the common error of the existence of two distinct substances, he says:—" Les deux couleurs jaune et brune quand elles existent, n'appartient pas a deux granulations distinctes, mais bien a la meme granulation qui est jaune au centre, oil se trouve le bile, et rouge-brun a la circonference, ou se trouve le sang." Now Kiernan has dis- tinctly proved that the structure of the lobules is the same throughout, and their colour is also uniform. Cruveilhier must therefore have founded his opinion and his description upon a liver in the second stage of hepatic conges- tion, in which there exists a delusive indication of lobules having the appearance of small oval and variously shaped patches, of a yellowish colour, situated at regular intervals, and sur- rounded by a reddish brown substance. These yellowish spots are seen in Jigs. 43, 45 & 46. They are the clusters of terminal biliary ducts of Muller,—the central portions of the lobules of the liver of Cruveilhier; but if they be ex- amined carefully, their true nature will become clearly apparent. They are actually the un- congested portions of the lobules of a liver in the state of hepatic venous congestion at the second stage, and have each an interlobular space for a centre. In the next passage Cru- veilhier observes:—" Le foie humain, excepte dans les cas de development considerable des granulations, se prete difficilement a leur etude vu leur petitesse." Here again in the words " development considerable," we perceive an idea founded upon the same erroneous im- pression with regard to the structure of the lobules. The real lobules are as nearly as pos- sible of the same size in the liver of every individual, but these imaginary lobules of Cruveilhier, having uncongested portions of the hepatic substance for centres, necessarily vary in size and form with the degree of con- gestion, and hence have given rise to the idea of an increased development of the lobules. Again, the true lobules are not so small in the human liver as to render their examination difficult; they may be seen distinctly with the naked eye, and with the commonest lens may be examined accurately. But in the congested