354 MICROSCOPE. to enter the objective, we cannot but think that a source of error still remains, and that the most perfect image possible, formed by an achromatic object-glass, of an object which is artificially illuminated, can only be produced when the rays from the source of light take exactly the same course as if they proceeded from the object itself. That they may have this course, they must be made to converge upon the object by a condensing lens, whose focus for parallel rays (if the illuminating point be very distant) shall be the same as the acting focus of the objective. A different condenser would thus be required for every objective; but the expense of these would be sufficient to preclude their general employment. The same condenser might be employed, however, for several low powers; the highest having their own expressly adapted to them. We may mention it as a fact for which we cannot very well account, that we have been able to obtain a very beautiful and distinct illumina- tion by the use of an aplanatic-doublet con- denser, receiving its rays from the ground glass globe of the common table-lamp, which would not seem to furnish any of the conditions that we have dwelt on as of theoretical impor- tance. Opaque objects may be illuminated in two principal ways, either by a light cast obliquely upon them by a condensing lens, or by rays thrown upon them perpendicularly by a silver speculum fixed to the object-end of the body, which receives them from the mirror below. Both these modes have their peculiar advan- tages, and will be found by experience to be applicable with advantage to different classes of objects. No general directions on the sub- ject can, however, be given. The condenser to be used by lamp-light for large opaque ob- jects should be a bull's-eye or hemispherical lens of four inches in diameter; by this, even from a common candle or flat-wicked lamp, a sufficient light may be attained for almost any purpose, and with an Argand lamp a very powerful illumination is obtained. For the parallel rays of day-light, however, an ordinary double-convex lens of the focus of two inches or more may be employed; this may be mounted upon a separate stem and foot, as the bull's-eye should always be, or it may be attached to some part of the micro- scope itself. We have seen foreign instru- ments in which it was fixed to the object-end or nose of the body; a construction which we deem essentially bad, inasmuch as it then re- quires to be readjusted every time that the focal distance is changed by the substitution of one objective for another. A better mode in our opinion is to attach it to the side of the stage by a jointed arm possessing a pin which may be fitted into one of three or more holes drilled in the side of the stage with sufficient tightness to remain in any position. If the wire to which the lens-frame is attached be made to pass through a sprung socket con- nected by a ball-and-socket-joint with the jointed arm, an immense variety in position may be readily given to the condensing lens, which will render a separate mounting for it unnecessary. The metallic speculum, or Lieberkuhn, for throwing down rays directly upon the object, is sometimes attached to the objective itself, sometimes to a tube which maybe drawn down over it to the required amount. The former con- struction is the most perfect, each magnifier having its own speculum; but the latter is most economical, as one speculum serves for many objectives. When the latter construc- tion is employed, the tube should be marked with the numbers of the magnifiers at the points at which it may be best adjusted for each, so that, when the object is in the focus of the objective, it may be in full receipt of the rays reflected from the speculum. In this mode of illumination the size of the concave mirror will be found to have a considerable influence; and the capability of adjusting also its distance from the speculum gives a useful variety to the mode of illumination. It can never be too fully kept in mind, that, in the examination of doubtful objects, no really satis- factory result can be attained, until they have been viewed in every possible way. When the object is not perfectly opaque, or does not fill up the whole of the field of view, it should always be placed on an opaque disc, which should be large enough to interrupt all the rays passing directly upwards from the mirror to the eye. The colour of this disc may be advan- tageously varied for certain objects, but in general we consider a dead black the best for giving them effect. As a general rule it may be remarked, that the fewer the rays entering the eye except through the object, the more perfect will be the view of it; and if there be anything approaching to a glare around an opaque object, whether the light proceed di- rectly from the mirror, or be reflected back from the too-bright surface of the disc, it is equally injurious, and will occasion a mis- tiness over the object itself. It is evident, how- ever, that the size of the disc must be governed by that of the field of the objective employed ; for, if too large, it will interrupt too much of the light impinging on the speculum. A piece of black glass, mounted upon a long strip of common window-glass, will be found very useful where the object is such that it can be laid upon it when the microscope is in- clined. When the object requires to be held in the stage-forceps, however, a disc of black card may be placed behind it, so as to afford it a back-ground. And for some delicate opaque objects, it is most advantageous to em- ploy little concave discs or cups, with their interior blackened, in front of which the ob- jects are to be placed. Similar dark back- grounds are useful when oblique light is em- ployed. III. Magnifying power of micro- scopes. The next point to which we shall advert is the mode of estimating the magnifying power of microscopes, and of measuring the real size of objects under examination. Our esti-