MOTION. 441 curious spectacle of globular bodies moving in direct opposition to the force of gravity. The structure of this interesting animal in a mechanical point of view is worthy the pro- found attention of the mathematician, as well as of the anatomist and physiologist. Sect. IV. Annelida.—The terrestrial An- nelides, such as the Lumbrici or Earth-worms, have the body cylindrical, and divided into up- wards of one hundred and twenty segments, which permit of extension and contraction, with the power also of curving the trunk vertically and horizontally, according to the play of the muscular system. The progression of the Lumbrici is aided by their retractile seta?, or conical spines, eight of which are attached to each ring, consequently there are as many or more than 8 X 120 = 960 of these setae in a single worm, to assist its locomotion. As many of the Lumbrici attain the length of nearly twelve inches, there must be about twelve rings or segments in an inch of the body taken longitudinally ; now each ring being arti- culated with great freedom of motion, and the integuments being soft, flexible, and elastic, the trunk possesses very great mobility. The locomotion of the Lumbrici is simple, and performed in the following manner. When the animal is about to advance, the head is raised, and about fifteen or twenty of the an- terior segments are extended and placed firmly upon the plane of position ; the setae and rings assist in fixing the segment in advance; this being effected, the next fifteen or twenty rings are drawn forwards, and the seta? are again fixed in a similar manner; subsequently a third and fourth series successively complete the pro- gression of a step. The space taken at each ad- vance depends on the energy and magnitude of the animal, and the nature of the surface on which the movements are performed. Some Lumbrici, about six inches in length,having been placed upon a smooth surface, performed a distance equal to their own length at six or seven complete steps, taking about one inch at each advance ; this occupied nearly one mi- nute of time, being a velocity of progression of about thirty feet per hour. The smoothness of the surface retarded the celerity of their move- ments in consequence of the seta? being inca- pable of fixing the segments against any points with sufficient power to enable them to draw the succeeding segments forward ; under these circumstances the mouth was observed to be substituted, and to lay firm hold of the surface, whilst the anterior segments were drawn for- wards. The Lumbrici are capable of ascend- ing a plane inclined at an angle of 45° to the horizon, provided its surface presents suffi- cient irregularities for the application of the rings and setae. The centre of gravity of the Lumbrici is very near the middle of their length. The cylindrical form of the articulata, and the minute dimensions of the setae, render them (with such a limited basis of support) very liable to turn upon their axis, and roll over on their backs, but they readily recover the pendent position of the abdomen by bend- ing the trunk forwards into an arch, with its convexity resting on the plane of motion, and the head and anus raised above it, but inclined to one side : the inclined direction of the raised segments causes the animal to revolve on its axis, and regain its natural position. When irritated, the Lumbrici contract and contort the body into curves resembling in form the letter S; they appear capable of con- tracting the body to one half of its entire length ; in which condition the integuments present a cor- rugated appearance. The Nais and Naiades are swimmers. The Haemocharis walks like the caterpillar of the Geometra. The Hirudines, or Leeches, are more developed in a transverse direction than the Lumbrici; in these animals the mouth is surrounded by a lip, and the anal extremity is furnished with a flattened disc, each of which is capable of causing a vacuum, and the head and anus being fixed to the plane of position, whilst the body is elon- gated and contracted alternately, the locomo- tion is effected. Leeches are well known to be capable of thus ascending vertically upon the smooth surface of glass, to which they adhere with considerable force. Insecta. Apode larva of Insects.—The num- ber of segments which compose the lengthened cylindrical form of the Apode larva; and the dis- position of the muscular system permit the trunk to be moved in various directions; to be elon- gated, contracted, curved upwards, downwards, or on either side, thus contributing to the pro- gression of the Apocles. The cephalic, thoracic, and abdominal sections, which may be consi- dered as merely auxiliary organs in animals furnished with arms and legs, are employed by the cylindrical Apodes as the sole instruments of locomotion. The progression of the Balaneus Nudum, the Maggot of the hazel-nut, is thus performed. Having first laid hold, with the mouth, of some point in the plane of position, the body is con- tracted and curved upon itself, and the anal extremity drawn forwards ; the latter then takes a fixed point for a fulcrum, and the segments which had previously approximated during the contraction, are again separated in succession from behind forwards, causing a slight undula- tion of the body in successive curves, vertical to the plane of motion. The head having been pro- jected forwards by the elongation of the trunk, repeats the same actions, recurring as before, in succession. Their progression is slow and laborious, each step not being more than from one-twelfth to one-fourteenth of an inch. The Cionus Scrofularia?, like the common Snail, secretes a slimy substance which enables it to walk on the leaves of the fiewort, on which it feeds.* The larvae of the Muscida? are pro- vided with unguiform mandibles, with which they maintain a firm hold, whilst the body is contracted and dragged forwards. Other larva?, as the Syrphus, use their mandibles for the same purpose.f Pcdate Larva.—Many of the pedate larva? of insects are furnished with six legs like the * Do Gccr, vol. v. p. 210. t Khby ami Spenco, vol. ii. \i. 272.