IRRITABILITY. 33 vided into tenths and hundredths, and in- serted into a wider tube containing water, precisely in the manner of the gauge (?', j.) In order to secure the exact proportion between the capacity of the pneumatometer and that of the aerometer, it is only necessary to add more or less of mercury to the trough. The whole apparatus is inclosed in a glazed frame so as entirely to obviate the influence of partial currents of air. It is plain that changes in external temperature and pressure will affect both these parts of the apparatus equally; and that the fluids in the gauge and in the tube (p, q,) will move pari passu. It is there- fore only necessary to compare them, and to take the difference, for the real alteration in the quantity of the gas in the jar. Previously to noticing this difference, the fluids in the outer and inner tubes are to be brought accurately to the same level, by raising or depressing the outer tube (k, I,) and the inner one (p, q.) In order that the air within the jar and that in the aerometer may be in the same state of humidity, a little water is introduced into the glass ball (o) of the latter. When the animal is to be removed, the fluid in the inner and outer tubes of the gauge are to be brought to a precise level; the animal is then to be withdrawn through the mercury, by a cord attached to the little net or box in which it is secured ; a quantity of fluid will immediately rise in the inner tube, (i, j,) equal to the bulk of the animal; the bent tube (m, n) is now to be passed through the mercury into the jar so as to effect a communication with the atmospheric air; a portion of air equal to the bulk of the animal rushes into the jar, whilst the fluids in the gauge regain their level. To avoid the error which would arise from the influence of the temperature of the animal upon the air within the jar of the pneumato- meter, the first observation of the degree upon the gauge must be made the instant the ex- periment is begun, and before the tempera- ture of the animal can have been communi- cated to it; and the last, so long after the animal has been withdrawn as to allow of its restoration to the temperature of the atmos- phere. In this way all calculations for the varied temperature and pressure of the external air, for augmented humidity and temperature of the air of the pneumatometer, and for the changes in the height of the fluid of the trough, are at once disposed of in a manner the most accurate and simple. It novv remains to determine the quantity of change induced upon the air of the pneumato- meter, by the respiration of the animal. Two views may be taken of this change; that of Messrs. Allen and Pepys, that the oxygen which disappears is replaced by a precisely equal bulk of carbonic acid; or that of M. Edwards, that there is generally an excess of the oxygen which disappears over that of the carbonic acid evolved. In either case the quantity of respiration is ascertained by the VOL. III. gauge of the pneumatometer in the following manner. A frame made of glass rods {r, s) is placed within the jar (a, b) suspending por- tions of calico, imbued with a strong solution of pure potassa, and provided with a small dish of wood, so as to prevent the caustic liquid from dropping upon the animal beneath. By this means the carbonic acid is removed as it is evolved, or after the animal is with- drawn. The rise of the fluid in the gauge of the pneumatometer gives the quantity of oxygen which disappears,—whether this be entirely ex- changed for carbonic acid, or only partly ex- changed for carbonic acid, and partly absorbed, —and denotes the precise quantity of the respi- ration. The question itself, of the entire or partial exchange of the oxygen gas which disappears, for carbonic acid gas evolved, is at once de- termined by employing the same apparatus without the solution of potassa: in the entire exchange, there is no alteration in the bulk of the air of the pneumatometer; in the case of a partial exchange, the alteration in the bulk of the air gives the precise excess of oxygen gas which disappears, over the quantity of carbonic acid evolved. But this question, and that of the absorption and evolution of nitrogen, with the influence of night and day, of season, &c. are reserved for a future stage of this inquiry. It is important that the animal should be left for a considerable time in the very situation in which it is to remain during the experiment, before that experiment is begun, and before the jar is placed over it. In this manner the effect of timidity or restlessness is allowed to subside, and prevented from mingling with that of the natural state of the respiration. A bit of cork must also be attached to the mercurial trough, so as to float upon the mercury at t, and pre- vent the disturbing effect of the contact of this fluid with the animal. It is also well, after having placed the jar in the groove of the mercurial trough, to pour a little water over the mercury exterior to the jar. The apparatus is thus rendered perfectly air-tight, which is not always effected by the mercury alone. By means of this apparatus we readily and accurately determine the quantity of the re- spiration of any given animal, in any given circumstances. II. Of the measure of the irritabili/i/.— The problem to be next determined is that of the degree of irritability of the muscular fibre, and especially of the heart. The question is beset with scarcely fewer or less difficulties than that of the quantity of respiration, whilst it involves far greater errors and more dis- crepancy of opinion on the part of physio- logists. Even Baron Cuvier has fallen into these errors. It will be shortly demonstrated that the degree of irritability is, in every instance, inversely as the quantity of respiration. Yet M. Cuvier, in a remarkable paragraph, states the very contrary, and even speaks of that which is the exhauster, as the repairer, of the n