72 1g PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ologists to the existence of a power in the nervous centres which no doubt exercises a wide influence on the phenomena of living creatures ; and yet it seems extraordinary that neither of these physiologists in their earlier writings should have made the slightest allusion to Prochaska, who had offered a more precise and more comprehensive, and, as I hope to show, a truer explanation of the phenomena than either of them. I shall here cite various facts, in addition to those already adduced, which unequivocally demonstrate that a power exists in the cord of exciting movements in parts which receive nerves from it, by changes occurring in its substance, which may arise there from some modification of its nutrition developed in the cord itself, or be excited by a stimulus brought to act upon it by afferent or sensitive nerves. But more than this : the cord has the power of reflecting the change wrought in it by im- pressions conducted to it into adjacent sensi- tive nerves, thus creating a large class of reflex phenomena under the name of reflex or radia- ting sensations. When a stimulus is applied to the spinal cord, either directly or through the medium of afferent nerves, the actions excited by it are generally limited to those parts which derive their nerves from that segment of the cord which has received the stimulus. In some instances, however, parts supplied from other and even distant segments are thrown into action. Thus irritation of one leg may cause movements of one or both of the upper extremities; the intro- duction of a catheter into the urethra will some- times give rise to forcible contractions of the muscles of the lower extremities or even of all the limbs. These effects are due, no doubt, to the extension of the stimulation in the cord be- yond the point first acted upon ; and they may be regarded as proofs that that peculiar state of physical change which nervous stimulation can excite in a centre may be propagated in the spinal cord upwards, downwards, or sideways, from the seat of the primary stimulation. This fact was pointed out first, so far as I know, by Dr. M. Hall, who regards it as a property of the cord in its normal state. This, I am inclined to think, is an error; I believe it to be a property of the cord, only when its polarity is exalted. It is, however, an important property, and we shall, by-and-bye, make use of it in considering the mechanism of the various actions of nervous centres. Meantime we may obtain, from examining into the morbid states which are apt to arise in the spinal cord and in other parts of the cerebro-spinal centres, in- teresting confirmation of it. A wound in the sole of the foot or ball of the thumb, or in some other situation favourable to the maintenance of prolonged irritation, is ca- pable of exciting a particular region of the cord, from which the state of excitement spreads so as to involve not only the whole cord, but part of the medulla oblongata also; and in this state a large proportion of the motor nerves participate, so as to induce tonic contraction of the muscles they supply. This is the rationale of the developement of that fearful malady called tetanus. It consists not in an inflamma- tory condition of the cord or of its membranes, nor in congestion of them, but simply in a state of prolonged physical excitement, the natural polar force of the centre being greatly exalted and kept so by the constant irritation propagated to it by the nerves of the wounded part. Intestinal irritation is capable of pro- ducing a similar condition, which, if the irrita- tion have not been allowed to remain too long, may be speedily removed by getting rid of the irritating cause. The following case illustrates this : an unhealthy looking girl, about fifteen years of age, was brought into King's College Hospital suffering from severe tonic spasms of the muscles of the spine and lower extremities. The spasms were so powerful as to produce successive paroxysms of opisthotonos, during which the trunk became bent like a bow, so that the patient rested on her occiput and on her heels. This state was speedily removed by the use of a large purgative clyster containing tur- pentine, which brought away a large number of ascarides from the rectum. In cases of paraplegia from disease of the spinal cord, the paralysed parts are frequently troubled with cramps and startings occurring chiefly at night, and preventing sleep and occa- sioning great distress to the patient. These are very often traceable to intestinal disturb- ance, the presence of irritating matters, which, stimulating the mucous membrane, through its nerves excite the spinal cord, and thus produce these involuntary movements. The rigid and contracted state of the muscles of paralysed limbs, which frequently accompa- nies red softening of the brain, arises from the propagation of the excited state of the diseased part of the brain to that portion of the spinal cord which is connected with it, and from which the nerves of the paralysed parts arise. These nerves likewise participate in the irritation of the cord, and thus keep the muscles in a state of continued active contraction. There is no organic lesion of the cord in these cases ; its state of excitement is dependent on the cerebral irritation, and disappears if the latter yields to the influence of remedial measures. To a similar extension of cerebral irritation, although of a much briefer duration, the con- vulsions of epilepsy may be attributed. The brain becomes the seat of irritation, and this spreads to the whole or a part of the spinal cord and to the nerves which arise from it. In many instances of epilepsy the convulsions are limited to one half of the body, and this is espe- cially the case where a chronic lesion exists in the brain and forms a focus of irritation, which is propagated only to one half (the opposite) of the cord. Some substances exert a peculiar influence upon the spinal cord and throw it into a state of considerable polar excitement. Strychnine is the most energetic substance of this class. If a certain quantity of this drug be injected into the blood or taken into the stomach of an ani- mal, a state of general tetanus will quickly ensue, sensibility being either unaltered or some-