916 PENIS. so large that it extended forwards to the middle of the penis, and usurped the place of the accelerator urinae, which was absent. The ischio-bulbosus muscle is separated from the transversus perinei by the folded border of the deep and superficial perineal fascia, and from the compressor urethras by the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia. It covers in the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The action of the ischio-bulbosi muscles is to compress the bulb, and by their pressure to aid the posterior fasciculi of the acceleiatores urinae in producing turgescence of the corpus spongiosum. In the variety to which I have alluded above, the ischio-bulbosi must have performed the whole of the duty of the accele- ratores. The co/npressor vena: dorsalispenis is a small muscle, first described by Dr. Houston,* of Dublin. According to that gentleman it is found very commonly among mammiferous animals, and also in the human subject when the muscular system is well developed. To its existence in the dog and cat I can bear witness, having repeatedly prepared it for Dr. Jones Quain, who was wont to demon- strate it in his lectures; I have been less suc- cessful in the human subject, and have never obtained a satisfactory view of a distinct pair of muscles in the situation indicated by Dr. Houston. " In man," writes this author, "the compressores venae dorsalis are less distinct than in most of the mammalia. They arise from the rami of the pubis above the origin of the erectores penis and crura, and ascending in a direction forwards are inserted above the vena dorsalis by joining with each other in the mesiati line. They form a thin stratum of muscular and tendinous fibres about an inch long and three quarters of an inch broad, and may perhaps be looked upon as portions of the erectores penis, which, instead of being inserted into the sides and lower part of the corpora cavernosa, mount over those bodies to exert their compressing influence on the vena dor- salis. They enclose between these and the penis, the veins, arteries, and nerves of this region. Their anterior fibres are distinguished from those of the erectores by the fibrous at- tachment of the crura to the pubis; their posterior margins are kept distinct from the front part of the levatores ani, known under the name of Wilson's muscles, by the pudic artery, which divides them in its course towards the dorsum of the penis." " The best procedure to display these mus- cles is the following. Detach the bladder and levator ani with the hand from one side of the pelvis; then divide with the saw the pubis and ischium about one inch from the symphysis, and break off the bones at the sacro-iliac arti- culation; next dissect away carefully the re- maining portion of the pubis from the symphy- sis, periosteum, and crura penis, and then the compressores vena, bearing still their natural relations to the crura and other muscles, may be exposed with very little difficulty. The * Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. page 459. insertion of the muscles being in a great mea- sure outside the pelvis, they may also be demonstrated without the section of the bones, by cutting on them in front of the pubis and looking carefully for their tendon at the side of the vena dorsalis: from the tendon the knife may be carried downwards and backwards in the course of the fibres, and nearly the whole of the muscle can be thereby exposed. It must, however, be remembered that it will be needless to search for them in a thin emaciated individual, where the other muscles of the perineum are so pale and soft that even they can scarcely be distinguished. The subject should be robust, and the muscles red, in order to demonstrate them." Respecting the action of these muscles Dr. Houston observes: " The use of the musculi compressores venae is self-evident and cannot be mistaken ; the effect of their contraction will be to close the vein and mechanically obstruct the current of blood. A simple experiment will prove to demonstration that such will be the necessary result of their contraction. Let the muscles be stretched in the natural direction of their fibres, and any fluid forced into the vein will not find a passage through the vessel beyond the spot where it is compressed by their tendon : a very gentle pull of the muscles will be sufficient to produce this effect. In cases where the vein runs through the tendon the pressure will be most efficacious, but even in those in which the tendon is arched over the vein its descent from the contraction of the muscles will sufficiently compress the delicate tunics of the vessel to produce the required effect." The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic, itself a branch of the inter- nal iliac artery. They are three in number on each side; the artery of the bulb, the artery of the corpus cavernosum, and the arteria dorsalis penis. The arteria corporis bulbosi is given off from the internal pudic at a point corresponding with the level of the urethra, and passes trans- versely inwards to the bulb, which it enters close to the lower part of the urethra. In its course inwards it lies along the upper border of the transverse portion of the compressor urethra; muscle, and crosses that muscle ob- liquely from within outwards. It is situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and is surrounded by a sheath derived from the anterior layer of the fascia as it enters the bulb. Having entered the corpus spongi- osum, the artery runs forwards in the midst of the venous canals of that body to the glans penis, in which it distributes its ultimate branches. In its course the arteria bulbosi gives off numerous ramuscules, which ramify in the walls of the venous canals. The arteria corporis cavernosi is given off from the internal pudic, somewhat nearer to the symphysis pubis than the preceding, and opposite the point of junction of the crura penis; it pierces the fibrous tunic of the cms penis on its inner side, to enter the structure of the corpus cavernosum. In the latter it