REGIONS OF THE LEG. 1-29 superficial veins are without this important help. Their sides are supported, on one hand, by the yielding layer of the fascia and muscles, and, on the other, by the integument. When, therefore, any impediment presents itself to the free transmission of the blood through the femoral, popliteal, or iliac veins, or even by the mere weight of the ascending column of blood, in persons who stand much, it is the superficial veins that suffer most, and a perma- nently dilated state is the frequent result. The pathology of varicose veins has not re- ceived the attention which it deserves, and hence the conflicting opinions as to the precise nature of their origin ; we must even now con- fess with Delpech that the nature and causes of the disease are unknown. It is quite clear that that state of disease of the veins commonly termed varicose comprehends more than one pathological condition, and probably has more than one mode of origin. Every instance of an enlarged vein cannot be considered as a varix, unless we confound under the same denomination a condition of the vessel natural and healthy except in regard to its size, neither originating nor terminating in a morbid condi- tion, with every variety and degree of disease accompanied with enlarged capacity of the vein. We have seen the veins of the abdomen en- larged so as to fulfil the office of the vena cava inferior, which was obliterated. But there was not the slightest mark of disease in these super- ficial vessels. The uterine veins, also, in preg- nancy become enlarged in a similar manner, thus answering to the call for the increased circulation of blood in the uterus. This state of the vessels has been aptly termed hyper- trophy, and the term varix has been restricted to permanently dilated states of the veins, at- tended with the accumulation of dark blood, which more or less generally becomes coagu- lated and adherent to the parietes nf the vessels. Of this latter species Andral enumerates six varieties : 1st, simple dilatation without any other change, such dilatation affecting either their whole length, or occurring at intervals ; 2d, dilatation, either uniform or at intervals, with a thinned stale of the veins at the dilated points; 3d, uniform dilatation with thickening of the venous coats; 4th, dilatation at inter- vals with thickening of the dilated points ; 5th, dilatation, with the addition of septa within the vein, whereby the cavity is divided into little cells in which the blood lodges and coagulates ; 6th, a similar disposition combined with per- forations in the parietes of the veins, which communicate with the surrounding cellular tissue in a more or less diseased state by nume- rous small apertures. From repeated observa- tion of its practical impoitance we should be inclined to add to this list one other variety, viz. when the varicose state had extended into, or existed distinctly in, the capillaries of the skin. We believe that in those troublesome ulcers known as varicose we shall frequently, if not generally, find this state of the minuter veins and capillaries, and we are more inclined to attribute the pain and the obstinate character of these ulcers to the pathological condition now vol. nr. mentioned than to the mere vicinity of an en- larged vein as it passes through the superficial fascia. The causes of the diseased state in question have been variously stated, nor do opinions yet agree upon it, some attributing it to mechanical influence, and others supposing a morbid tendency. Both these causes pro- bably act in different instances, or even co- operate in the same case ; we shall now only mention in illustration of the effect produce- able by the mechanical influence of too much standing, that it is not necessary to suppose that the valves are either destroyed or even materially injured in structure to nullify their agency in supporting the column of blood above them, since ever so small a communi- cation between the two columns, the upper and the under, is sufficient to destroy all the beneficial agency of the valves as supporters of the gravitating fluid in the veins. Therefore a dilatation of the vein merely enough to draw the opposed edges of the valve ever so little apart, or even a thickening of the valves pre- venting the accurate coaptation of their edges, will be sufficient to prevent their power of support to the superincumbent column, and as far through the vein as this defective state of the valves may exist, so far will the gravi- tating column of blood be virtually unbroken and entire, and in the same proportion will the tendency to the varicose state be increased. This reasoning will explain many, probably the majority of cases where the morbid dila- tation having once begun goes on to increase rapidly by the continued operation of this ex- citing cause. That there are other causes capable of producing this state of the veins cannot be disputed ; indeed the occurrence of it in parts not likely to be affected by the up- right position, and even in several different parts of the body of the same subject, shews that there is occasionally a morbid tendency in the venous system to this particular state, which acts independently of any mechanical cause; but we believe that this predisposing cause is not necessary to the production of the disease, and that the morbid tendency, when it is met with, should be regarded rather as the exception than as the rule. In considering the causes of the disease in question, we should not lose sight of the rela- tive proportion of the deep and superficial venous circulations of the lower extremities, a proportion varying in almost every individual. In one, the superficial veins are large and nu- merous, and lie immediately under the skin; in another, they are few and small. Tt is ob- vious, that in the first case the blood retained by this route bears a large proportion to that passing through the deep set, much larger than it would in the latter case. In the first in- stance, therefore, these vessels will have a greater proportional weight of blood to sustain and transmit, than in the second ; while, in those individuals who have the superficial cir- culation small, the blood is chiefly returned by the deep set, which, from circumstances before mentioned, are more equal to the task, and in such persons the diseased state in question K