605 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) Council of the College of Surgeons under the judicious direction of Professor Owen. The beautiful preparations of the nervous system of the mussel and other animals by our friend Mr. Goadby, cannot fail to excite the delight and admiration of every friend to the advance- ment of Physiology. One is not less asto- nished at his remarkable power of manipu- lation, as displayed in the dissection of the soft and fragile nerves of these delicate animals, than at the great ingenuity with which he has displayed and perpetuated these witnesses to his anatomical skill. We hope, for the sake of science, that, under the liberal patronage of the College Council, Mr. Goadby will be able to form a lar»e collection of dissections of the Invertebrate Nervous System; and sure we are, that in nothing can the Council contribute more to promote the designs of John Hunter than in making his Museum the depository of such a series by such an artist.] 3. Gasteropoda.—[In this order of Mollusks the locomotive function is freely enjoyed, and is effected in many of the genera by a powerful muscukir organ, which generally acts as a sucker and enables the animal to adhere forci- bly to the surface and draw itself on in a crawling manner—the well known mode of progression of the common snail and slug. In other genera the foot is modified according to the objects to which the animals adhere, or loco- motion is performed by portions of the mantle adapted to act as oars or fins in swimming. The respiratory function, whether adapted to an aquatic or a terrestrial mode of existence, is much more highly developed in these animals than in the preceding order. Their digestive system, too, is more perfect, the accessory organs being more fully developed. We per- ceive, too, the unequivocal existence of a visual organ. There are also special organs (tentacles) for the exercise of the sense of touch, and it has been supposed that the power of smell and that of hearing existed, although the respective seats of these senses cannot be determined. It is well known that if the surface of a snail or slug be touched ever so slightly, a con- traction of the part so stimulated will imme- diately take place. This is probably due to the inherent irritability of the subdermic mus- cular layers, or it may result from the reflexion of the impression upon the motor organs from some nervous centre with which the nerves of the skin are in connexion. It seems very unlikely that we can refer it to a sensibility of the surface, for the observations of Ferussac clearly imply that the terrestrial Gasteropods present no signs of pain when injured or wounded. We cannot, therefore, agree with Professor R. Jones in assigning tactile sensibility to the general cutaneous sur- face of these animals, nor do we think it neces- sary to regard the phenomenon in question (as Dr. Carpenter suggests) as an example of motion excited by a reflected impression, which is not accompanied with sensation; but rather as an instance of muscular contraction, pro- duced by the immediate influence of the stimu- lus on the irritable fibre. Now this more active exercise of certain functions necessarily implies a greater develop- ment of the nervous system; but the same general plan as that described in the Conchifers prevails. The principal part of the nervous apparatus is connected with the oesophagus, and has communications with the other ganglia. There is also a centre of locomotion, and a respiratory centre.* The oesophageal nervous centre is developed either as two small ganglia, situate on either side of the oesophagus, or as a single large ganglion placed on the median line and above the oesophagus ; or, lastly, a single ganglion is formed beneath the oesophagus. In each of these varieties the common type of a nervous ring or collar around the oesophagus is pre- served, however the situation of the cephalic centre or the number of its ganglia may differ. The centre of locomotion consists of two ganglia, from which nerves proceed to the foot and to the mouth; which latter, however, is sometimes supplied from distinct ganglia. These ganglia are connected to each other by com- missural nerves and also to the cephalic centre. The respiratory apparatus and the viscera receive nerves from a proper centre, which sometimes is formed by one ganglion, some- times by two separate ones, which, however, have a connexion with the cephalic ganglia. The branchial and the pedal ganglia are some- times conjoined, and in some genera there is a still further concentration, so as to form a com- mon centre from which nerves are distributed to all the organs. The following examples will serve to illus- trate the principal points in the nervous system of these animals:— In Patella (limpet) there are two ganglia situate on either side of the oesophagus (A, Jig. 339). From these ganglia the tentacles and Fig. 339. A, cerebral ganglia. B, pedal ganglion. C, bran- chial ganglion, a, fila- ment of communication from cerebral to bran- chial ganglion, b, fila- ment of communication from cerebral to pedal ganglion. E, labial gan- glia. D, connecting band Nervous system of Patella betwee» la°'al ganglia. vulgaris ^ Limpet). eyes are supplied with nerves, and they are connected to each other by a simple nervous band which passes above the oesophagus. From the posterior part of each ganglion two nerves pass back : the outer one terminates in the bran- chialganglion,and theinneronein thepedal. The apparatus for mastication in this animal being complicated, it is supplied from a transverse band or two ganglia, situated beneath the oesophagus, and connected with the anterior or cerebral ganglia. This band is connected with two ganglia that supply the lips, called labial * See article Gasteropoda, p. 394, vol. ii., and Dr. Carpenter's Lectures on the Nervous Sys- tem, Lond. Med. Gazette for 1841.