ORGANIC ANALYSIS. This is evaporated to dryness in a water-bath. It is carefully weighed and the total solid con- tents determined; the loss indicates volatile matters consisting almost entirely of water. The residue is carefully incinerated with the usual precautions until all traces of carbon are removed : on weighing again we obtain the fixed saline constituents. By this means we have determined Water and volatile matters. Organic matters and ammoniacal salts. Fixed saline matters. The quantity of each organic substance has now to be estimated. We have at present no absolutely exact method of determining all the ingredients from one portion only of a fluid ; the following offers the nearest approximation. a. Fibrin separates by spontaneous coagula- tion ; it is washed and determined in the manner to be described hereafter. b. If casein and albumen be both present, a given portion of the clear liquid is acidulated with a few drops of acetic acid, and evaporated to dryness in vacuo over sulphuric acid. The residue is digested with successive portions of water at 120°, as long as any thing dissolves; this residue is then dried upon a water-bath, pulverised, and treated with ether, by which all fatty matters are removed; casein alone remains behind. It is completely dried, weigh- ed, incinerated, and the ashes deducted. This method of separating the casein is imperfect, as a portion of this substance generally redissolves on the addition of water. If uric acid be pre- sent, it will be found with the casein, which must be dissolved in solution of potash, diluted, filtered, supersaturated with acetic acid, by which the azotised matter at first precipitated is redissolved. Uric acid alone remains; it is collected on a weighed filter, and the quantity determined. It should always be tested by the microscope or by nitric acid. c. The aqueous solution filtered from the casein, or the liquid for examination, if this principle be absent, is evaporated to dryness by a water-bath. If much fat is present, the residue is washed with ether to remove the greater part of the oily matter, then dried tho- roughly, and powdered; an operation which, after the preliminary treatment with ether, may be effected without much difficulty. The pul- verized mass is digested with ether, and the ethereal solutions, including that in which the casein was digested, are mingled and evapo- rated to dryness. Cholesterin, fatty matters, lactates, and a trace of urea are obtained; by digesting with water the cholesterin and fats alone remain and may be collected on a filter and weighed. d. The residue, after digestion with ether, is treated with boiling water; the solution thus obtained may contain urea, sugar, sugar of milk, extractive and saline matters,—in short, every thing except the albumen, which is com- pletely dried and then weighed. When no casein is present, the uric acid, if any, will accompany the albumen, and may be separated from it in the manner directed for its separation from casein. e. The filtered liquid is evaporated to dry- ness and treated with a mixture of one part of anhydrous ether with two of absolute alcohol, by which urea, muriate of ammonia, lactates, the alcoholic extractive matters so called, and a small part of the sugar, are dissolved. The remainder of the sugar, sugar of milk, aqueous extractive matters, urates, sulphates, chlorides, and phosphates remain behind, forming re- sidue (1). /'. The alcoholic solution is evaporated to dryness and weighed: the solid matter divided into two portions ; one is dissolved in water acidulated with nitric acid, and treated with nitrate of silver, by which the chlorine is sepa- rated as chloride of silver, and hence the mu- riate of ammonia is determined; from the other portion we determine the quantity of urea by oxalic acid with the usual precautions. Having: thus determined the weight of the muriate of ammonia and of the urea, we infer the defici- ency to consist of a little sugar, lactates, and alcoholic extract. g. The residue (1), which contains sugar, su- gar of milk, watery extract, and salts, is boi'ed with proof-spirit as long as any thing is dis- solved ; the solution is evaporated to dryness, and if grape sugar be present, half the residue must be dissolved in water and fermented with yeast to determine the proportion of this sub- stance, and its weight is deducted from the weight of the residue left on evaporating the spirituous solution; the other half residue is incinerated, and the quantity of saline matter ascertained; by deducting the weight of the sugar and salts we then obtain that of the sugar of milk, together with the alcoholic extract, from which we possess no exact means of se- parating it. It, however, very rarely happens that in the same fluid we meet with grape sugar and sugar of milk ; the absence of sugar will obviously much simplify the method of proceeding. h. The portion undissolved by proof-spirit is dried and weighed ; it is incinerated and again weighed ; the difference between the two weighings gives the quantity of watery extract. This will be the general plan of operations if it be required to determine the quantity of each individual ingredient. From the number of operations required, and the destructible na- ture of the ingredients, the result, as already mentioned, is not rigidly accurate. Frequently, however, it is merely necessary to ascertain the proportion in which one substance only is found; the presence or absence of others being all that it is desired to know concerning them. We proceed now to the special consideration of the different animal principles. Fibrin.—Although the identity, in chemical composition, of fibrin, albumen, and casein has lately been strongly insisted on by Liebig and his pupils ; yet, as in their physical properties at least, and in the offices they perform in the body, they differ considerably, it is frequently of great importance to determine the relative proportion of each in the fluids and secretions. These three principles occur both in the coagu-