NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human in size as they approach and enter the grey matter. Of the grey nervous matter.—The grey ner- vous matter differs very materially in its ana- tomical characters from the white. Its ele- ments are vesicles or cells, with nuclei and nucleoli. Although this vesicular or cell form is universally prevalent, the cells present much diversity of shape, size, and colour in different centres or even in the same centre, which ap- parently have reference to some peculiarity of function. The most prevalent form is that of a globular vesicle, composed of a very deli- cate transparent membrane. Within this mem- brane is contained a soft minutely granular sub- stance, which forms the principal mass of the body, parenchymmasse (Valentin). The grey colour of the vesicle, which becomes very ma- nifest when a number of them is congregated together, is dependent on this granular matter. {See Jig. 371, a, b, c.) When the vesicle bursts and its substance is broken up, the granular matter is diffused, and confuses and darkens the specimen under examination. Sometimes the outer vesicle is removed, the contained granular matter retaining the globular form. Within the external vesicle (a, Jig. 371) there Fig. 371* Nerve vesicles from the Giisserian ganglion of the human subject, a, a globular vesicle with defined border; b, its nucleus •, c, its nucleolus; d, caudate vesicle; e, elongated vesicle with two groups of pigment particles ; f, vesicle surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated particles; g, the same, the sheath only being in focus. is another much smaller and adherent to a part of its wall, so as to be quite out of the centre of the containing vesicle. This is the nucleus (b, fig. 371). Its structure is ap- parently of the same nature as that of the ex- ternal vesicle. The nucleus contains in its centre another minute and remarkably clear and brilliant body, also vesicular in structure. This is the nucleolus (c, fig. 371). Sometimes it is replaced by two or three much smaller but similar bodies. The softness of the vesicle admits of its yielding, whether from the dis- turbance occasioned in the necessary manipu- * I am indebted to the accurate pencil of my friend Mr. Bowman for this illustration. Anatomy. Grey Nervous Matter). 647 lation or from the pressure of the neighbouring elementary parts as it lies in its proper situation. Hence it is that these vesicles exhibit a consi- derable diversity of form. Very frequently we observe that, besides the granular substance above described, there are certain pigment particles of large size and dark colour, which are collected into one or two roundish or oval groups, situate at or towards one or both sides of the vesicle (fig. 371, e). These masses of colouring matter sometimes occupy considerable space, and enable the ob- server readily to detect the position of such vesicles as contain them. When the mass of pigment is placed at one side, we may com- pare the containing vesicle, as Volckmanu has done, to a fruit which is coloured only on that side which is exposed to the sun. The aggre- gation of many such vesicles at any one spot gives the nervous matter there a peculiarly dark colour. A remarkable example of this is found in that portion of the crus cerebri which is known by the name of locus niger. A very interesting form of nerve-vesicle is that which exhibits the greatest departure from the globular shape by the prolongation of the wall of the outer cell into one or more tail-like processes. These bodies may, from this pecu- liar character, be designated caudate nerve- vesicles. They possess the nucleus and nucleo- lus, as in the more simple form, and contain one or more of the masses of colouring matter; indeed, in them the quantity of pigment is generally much more considerable than in any other form. I have noted an observation which shewed two nuclei in one vesicle. They vary much in size and shape, and so also do the processes. The largest nerve-vesicles are found among those of this description. The variety in shape may depend in some degree upon the situations from which the caudate processes take their rise. In some (fig- 371, d) they proceed from opposite poles of the vesicles; in others they arise near each other from the same region of the vesicle, and when numerous, give to it somewhat the form of a cuttle-fish with extended tentacles. In examining the structure of one of these processes, we find it evidently exactly similar to that of the matter contained in the outer vesicle, exhibiting the same minutely granular appearance. The pro- cesses are implanted in the surrounding sub- stance, and firmly connected with it, so as to be with great difficulty separated from it. They exhibit much strength of cohesion, but are fre- quently broken off quite close to their points of origin, and the broken ends present a dis- tinctly lacerated edge (d, Jig. 371). More rarely we are able to trace these processes to a considerable distance, and then we observe them to bifurcate or even to subdivide further, and to terminate in exceedingly fine transpa- rent fibres, the connexion of winch with the other elements of the nervous matter has not yet been ascertained.* * See a beautiful illustration of one of the largest of these vesicles in the second part of Mr. Bowman's and my work on Physiological Anatomy and Physiology.