255 MAMMARY GLANDS. Mr. Travers, at St. Thomas's Hospital, the other in the private practice of Mr. South ; the for- mer I inspected in company with that gentle- man. The post-mortem appearances were interesting from the immense crop of white hard tubercles which were found studding the pleura costalis. Dr. Benedict considers that " the primary skin disease can be removed almost always with a favourable result if the operation is performed previous to enlargement of the neighbouring glands, disease of the parenchyma of the mam- ma, or constitutional fever." The ordinary scirrhus of the mamma in its early stages usually presents itself to the sur- geon as a hard tumour, situated in not on the glandular substance of the breast. At first it is comparatively moveable, but it cannot be moved independent of the structure which sur- rounds it, and in the progress of development it soon contracts adhesions by means of root-like prolongations with the whole mamma. Its surface varies, not decidedly nodulated nor yet uniformly smooth; not tender to the touch, though it may be the seat of sharp lancinating pains. As the tumour increases, its adhesions extending on all sides, the nipple becomes drawn in, and its most prominent surface as- sumes a dusky hue. The constitution now begins to suffer, the glands in the axilla enlarge, and at this period there is no difficulty in dis- tinguishing the nature of the disease. In its early stage it might be confounded with a tumour which Mr. Travers in his paper just referred to has thus described: " There is a tumour met with in the breasts of young women, more like a shelled walnut in point of size and nodosity than any thing to which I can com- pare it. It is of a stony hardness, and it is not reduced by regulated equal compression, mer- cury, iodine, or blisters. It is an enlargement and partial cohesion of the lactiferous tubes in a cluster, in one or more places, and which dis- position in a less degree pervades the ducts throughout the organ." The absence of lanci- nating pains, constitutional disturbance, and the peculiar countenance attendant on malig- nant disease, assist the surgeon in his diagnosis. The earlier period of life at which it makes its appearance is also a circumstance worthy of attention. Miiller describes scirrhus, or carcinoma, sim- plex (syn. carcinoma fibrosum)as "irregular in form,* not lobulated, hard and resisting the knife, and presenting, when divided, a greyish appearance which has but very little similarity to cartilage. Whitish bands are not invariably present. Scirrhus of the mammary gland oc- casionally shews, here and there, whitish fila- ments, some of which are hollow, and contain a colourless, whitish or yellowish matter. Pro- bably this appearance of white filaments is the result of thickening of the walls of the lacti- ferous tubes and lymphatics, and this idea is confirmed by the absence of these filaments from scirrhus of non-glandular parts. The mass of scirrhus is composed of two substances, the one fibrous, and the other grey and granu- lar." The fibrous substratum is composed of a very irregular net-work of firm bundles of fibres. The grey consists of microscopic, formative globules, but slightly adherent to each other; they are transparent hollow cellules, from 0.0048 to 0.00166 or 0.00130 of an English inch in diameter, some of them exhibiting a distinct nucleus. They have no connection with the fibrous structure." Carcinoma reticulare, Miiller says,* " occurs more frequently than carcinoma simplex. On making a section of it, it may be immediately distinguished from the latter by the white reti- culated figures intersecting the grey mass, which are perfectly evident to the naked eye. It ac- quires a large size more readily than carcinoma simplex, and is further distinguished from its tendency to assume a lobulated form. It some- times approaches the consistence of scirrhus, at other times it is softer and more nearly re- sembles fungus medullaris." Though its con- sistence varies, its structure always remains the same, and with the exception of cancer areo- laris, no form of carcinoma can be so readily distinguished. Carcinoma alveolare, though usually found in the stomach,occasionally attacks the breast, and a very good specimen of it is deposited in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. This dis- ease, like the former one, consists of innumera- ble white fibres and lamina crossing each other in all directions, and having their interspaces occupied by cells which vary in size from that of a grain of sand to that of a large pea. For the history of the development of this and other forms of cancer see Products, Morbid. Soft cancer,fungus hamatodes,and medullary carcinoma, areoneand the same disease. It forms a soft elastic swelling, giving something of the sensation to the fingers of deep-seated fluid, increases rapidly, and is seldom confined to any single organ in the body. It occurs earlier in life than scirrhus, and is more decidedly a con- stitutional disease. " The tumour with which alone this is liable to be confounded," says Mr. Travers, " is the hydatid breast, as it is called, and there is sufficient resemblance in the rounded outline, the elastic resistance, the ab- sence of glandular affection, the distressing in- conveniences of size, weight, and distension, the turgid veins and livid discoloration of the surface, to create some hesitation. But in the medullary disease it seldom happens that the health is not affected, whereas in the hydatid breast it is undisturbed ; the figure of the me- dullary tumour is less uniform, being marked by dark tuberous elevations and immovably fixed to the side by the prolongations of the diseased growth in one or more parts of its cir- cumference ; whereas the hydatid tumour, not- withstanding its oftentimes enormous bulk, is globular and remains perfectly detached and pendulous. The main distinction is that the mammary gland is not, in my experience at least, the seat of the medullary or fungoid dis- ease as it is of the hydatid. * West's Translation, 41. * Page 45, loc. cit.