MOTION. 432 centre of gravity forwards, backwards, or ob- liquely. The case is different with animals moving upon solids, where the weight of the body has to be supported as well as urged for- wards by the instruments of progression. When the weight of the water displaced is greater than that of the animal, the body floats upon the sur- face, as in the Palmipedes ; if, on the contrary, the weight of the animal be greater than that of the water displaced by its bulk, a verti- cal as well as a horizontal force is requisite, equal to the difference of the specific gravities of the animal and the water, to prevent its sink- ing during progression.* The animal kingdom includes a vast number of species which are aquatic and constantly reside in ponds, lakes, rivers, and seas, having their general structures organized for inhabiting in these dense and resisting media, and their locomotive organs adapted for swimming. The number of these is far beyond the reach of calculation. Many of the larvae of insects and the tadpoles of Amphibia, which in their adult state are either entirely or partially terrestrial, commence their career in water; in these not only the locomotive organs, but their respi- ratory systems undergo metamorphosis. Ciliograde animals.- -Under this denomina- tion are comprehended the polygastric and rota- tory animalcules, and many genera of the orders, such as the Porifera, Polypifera, and Acale- pbae, whose locomotive organs are those minute, transparent, elastic, and very flexible conical filaments well known by the name of Cilia. The nature and structure of these organs have been fully detailed in the article Cilia, so as to render any further description here superfluous. The cilia act as levers, to which the water is the fulcrum. We may here referto the Volvox, as affording a familiar example of ciliary locomotion. The figure of this animalcule being spherical, the cilia placed on its surface are all equidistant from its centre, but those possess the greatest mechanical power which are placed at equal distances from either pole of the animal's axis of rotation. The volvox is capable of changing its axis of revolution, or varying its direction, and appears to revolve across the field of the microscope like a planet over that of the tele- scope. In the Rotifera, or wheel-animalcules, the cilia are arranged in rows, around the margin of one or more circular discs, capable of being extended and retracted from the body. * When the tail of the animal is free, it moves by its cilia, pursues, and darts upon its prey in every direction. The Rotifera are also capable of crawling upon solids, by the extension and retraction of the body, the head and tail being alternately fixed points : they are also capable of revolving with great velocity on fixing them- selves by the two posterior exsertile bulbs. Porifera and Polypifera.—The Gorgona and Flustra are for a brief period capable of a cilio- grade mode of progression. In the gemmules of sponges the cilia are spread over about two- thirds of the body. According to Grant, these zoophytes swim in a zigzag course, with the bul- bous extremities directed forwards ; their figure is pyriform ; their migrations are of very brief duration, for after the lapse of a few days only, which are spent in seeking for some suitable locality, they fix themselves during the remain- der of their lives. The Actiniae are capable of gliding upon the discs which form their bases of support. Reaumur asserts that they sometimes invert their position, and employ their tentacles as feet; they also diminish their specific gravity by augmenting their dimensions through the ab- sorption of water; when detaching themselves at the base, they suffer the current of the sea to drift them from place to place. Unlike most of the Polypes which are fixed, the Hydra viridis is capable of moving in the liquid medium which it inhabits (Jig.226). It Fie. 226. The Hydra viridis represented in its different stages of terrestrial locomotion, as figured by Tremhley. has three modes of progression; the first is ac- complished by alternate flexions and extensions of the body; thus the head being fixed by the oral tentaclesat c (Jig. 227), the little disc terminating the anal extremity is drawn forwards from a, and fixed at b ; the head is then raised and carried forwards, by the exension of the body, towards d; these two actions of flexion and extension complete a step, whose length is = ac — be. The second mode of progression is performed * See theory of Specific Gravities. * See Ehrenberg's Infus. Berlin, 1830.