658 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Spinal Cord.) trunk and the extremities. Of these branches the anterior one is generally much the larger. An exception, however, to this arrangement occurs in the case of the first spinal nerve (the tenth pair of Willis), to which Winslow gave the appropriate name sub-occipitalnerve, to indicate its peculiarity of character. This nerve some- times has only one root, and that corresponds to the anterior. More generally it has two roots, of which, unlike the other spinal nerves, the anterior is the larger, containing, according to Asch, from three to five or seven bun- dles of filaments, whilst the posterior contains two or three, or at most four much smaller bundles. Very frequently the posterior fila- ments of either the right or left side unite with the spinal accessory, a slight enlargement or knot being formed at the point of junction ; from this place a bundle of filaments emerges equal in size to the posterior root, and takes the ordinary course of that root, a small gan- glion being formed upon it at the usual situa- tion. Frequently, however, this ganglion is wanting. The compound nerve formed from the junction of these two roots, besides giving off communicating filaments to the sympathetic, divides as the other spinal nerves do into an anterior and posterior root, of which, however, contrary to the usual arrangement, the posterior is the larger. The spinal nerves are arranged naturally into classes according to the regions of the spine in which they take their rise. We number eight in the cervical region, the sub-occipital in- cluded ; twelve in the dorsal region ; five in the lumbar, and six in the sacral regions. All the nerves, after the second, pass obliquely outwards and downwards from their emer- gence from the spinal cord to their exit from the vertebral canal, and this obliquity gradu- ally increases from the higher to the lowest nerves. The roots of the nerves possess cer- tain characters, of which some are common to all, and others are peculiar to the nerves of particular regions. All the spinal nerves arise from the cord by separate fasciculi of filaments, which, as they approach the dura mater, converge to each other and are united together to constitute the anterior or the posterior roots. The posterior roots of opposite sides lie at a pretty uniform interval, from the upper to the lower part of the cord, indicating but a very trifling change in the thickness of the posterior columns throughout their entire course. The ganglia on the posterior roots are all proportionate to the size of their respective roots. The characters proper to the nerves of parti- cular regions may be stated as follows:*— The cervical nerves exhibit much less obli- quity of their roots than the other vertebral nerves. The second cervical nerve is trans- verse (the first passing a little upwards as well as outwards); the succeeding nerves slope downwards and outwards, the lowest being * In the succeeding statements I have followed Cruveilhier's description, which I have verified, excepting in a few points which are specified. the most oblique; the obliquity, however, never exceeds the depth of a single vertebra. The roots of the nerves in the cervical re- gion are of considerable size. The posterior roots bear a larger proportion to the anterior than in any other part of the spine. Accord- ing to Cruveilhier, the ratio is as 3 to 1, and this estimate is probably correct It applies not only to the entire root, but to the fasciculi of filaments which enter into their formation. The nerves in this region increase rapidly from the first to the fifth, and then maintain nearly the same size to the eighth. The dorsal nerves, with the exception of the first, which closely resembles a cervical nerve, have very peculiar characters. There is a manifest increase in the obliquity of the roots, so that the length of each root within the spinal canal equals the height of at least two vertebra?. And it may be remarked that the apparent obliquity is less than the real, for each root remains in contact with the cord for a short distance after its actual emergence from the substance of it, so that the point of separation is some way below the point of emergence. The interval between the roots is greater in the dorsal region than any other segment of the cord. The bundles, which compose the roots, are smaller than elsewhere. We observe a very slight disproportion be- tween the anterior and posterior roots in the dorsal region. The latter, however, still main- tain predominance of size. Lumbar region.—From the dorsal region to its terminal extremity the surface of the spinal cord is covered both on its anterior and poste- rior aspects by the fasciculi of origin of the lumbar and sacral nerves. They emerge very close to each other upon those surfaces, and the intervals between the sets of fascicles proper to each root are extremely short, so that they form an uninterrupted series of bun- dles on each surface. The proportion of the posterior to the ante- rior roots in the lumbar region is as 2 to 1 ac- cording to Cruveilhier, or as 1£ to 1, which seems to me to be nearer the truth. And there does not appear to be any material dif- ference in point of size between the posterior and anterior fascicles.* A very interesting feature in the origin of the lumbar and sacral nerves may be seen by ob- serving the relation to each other of the ante- rior and posterior roots of opposite sides on the respective surfaces of the cord. The an- terior roots of opposite sides may be seen to approximate the median line gradually as they descend, until at the lowest points they almost touch. On the contrary, the posterior roots continue nearly in the same sequence all the way down. It may, therefore, be supposed that in the tapering of the cord the anterior * M. Blaudin assigns the following proportions of the posterior to the anterior roots in the several regions ; in the cervical region as 2 : 1; in the dorsal region as 1 : 1; and in the lumbar and sacral regions as lb : 1.