227 LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. Fig. 55. Superficial lymphatic! of the lower extremity. (After Mascagni.) c, c, Commencing branches. d, Lymphatic vessels passing from the outer to the posterior part of the leg to gain its inner surface. e, Vessels passing from the outer to the posterior part of the thigh to gain its inner surface. f, Vessels passing from the outer to the anterior part of the leg to gain its inner surface. g, Vessels passing from the outer to the anterior part of the thigh to gain its inner surface. ficial lymphatics from the genitals, from the lower half of the anterior and posterior part of the trunk, from the perineal and gluteal re- gions. The lymphatics of the scrotum collect into one or two branches, which take their course with the superficial pudic veins to reach the glands in the groin. Those of the penis commencing on the glans and prepuce pro- ceed generally in three principal branches on the body of the organ, two of which are si- tuated laterally, and the third on the centre of its dorsal surface. These three vessels not un- frequently unite near the root of the penis into one vessel, which immediately divides right and left into branches, which also accom- pany the superficial pudic veins to the inguinal glands. In the direction of the superficial epigastric and circumflexa ilii veins there are several lymphatics derived from the anterior and lateral parts of the abdomen, which empty themselves in the inguinal glands. The super- ficial lymphatics from the perineal and gluteal regions, some from the loins and posterior and upper part of the thigh, stream round the outer part of the limb in the neighbourhood of the trochanter major to terminate in the same glands. The vasa eflferentia of the inguinal glands, three or four in number, are much larger than the vasa inferentia; they receive the contents of all the lymphatics hitherto described, and pass under Poupart's ligament with the femoral ar- tery and vein to become the vasa inferentia of the glands associated with the external iliac artery. From the anterior and lateral muscular paries of the abdomen, the lymphatics accom- pany the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries, and terminate in the external iliac glands. The external iliac glands are also joined by the vasa efferentia from the glands accompanying the internal iliac artery. These latter receive the lymphatics, associated with the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturatrix arteries, which enter the pelvis by the same openings as the arteries which they accompany. The lymphatics from the prostate gland and vesicular seminales, from the bladder and rectum, from the vagina and uterus, those accompanying the internal pudic vessels derived from the interior of the penis and clitoris, and those from the walls of the pelvis, all terminate in the internal iliac glands. The glands accompanying the common iliac artery, on the one hand, receive their efferent vessels from the internal and external iliac glands, and on the other give their efferent vessels to those, associated with the aorta, which constitute the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the testicle, of the kid- neys, and renal capsules, those accompanying the lumbar arteries, the lymphatics of the rectum, sigmoid flexure and descending por- tion of the colon, all terminate in the lumbar glands. Those from the testicle are derived from the interior as well as from the surface of the organ; they take their course upwards with the spermatic arteries and veins in several branches, to reach the renal and lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the kidneys emerge from its substance at the fissure of the organ, having taken their course with its bloodvessels, where they are joined by the superficial vessels; they pass through the small renal glands, and ulti- mately reach the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the renal capsules unite chiefly with those of the kidneys, but also on the left side with those of the spleen, and on the right with those of the liver. They are at length conducted to the lumbar glands. The lymphatics accompanying the lumbar arteries receive their branches from the structures sup- plied by those arteries, and empty themselves into the lumbar glands. The lymphatics from the descending colon, from its sigmoid flexure, Q 2