561 NECK. NECK. Gr. Tfoc;£>)Af;; Lat. collum, cer- vix; Fr. le cou ; ltal. U collo; Ger. der Hals. This word denotes that contracted, ribless por- tion of the trunk or column of support, which, in vertebrate animals, immediately sustains the head. Disease and accidental lesions so fre- quently submit it to surgical examinations and operative treatment, that familiar acquaintance with its intricate anatomy is of indispensable necessity to the practitioner. The order which I shail adopt in the ensuing article is, first, to describe fully and in order the muscles and fasciae of the neck, and sub- sequently the various regions into which it may be divided with the parts contained in them; the earlier portion giving, as it were, a mere skeleton view or diagram of the anatomy; the latter presenting the organs in their more natural, or regional arrangement, and treating of them in their living relations to disease, casualty, and surgical opeiation. I should recommend the student of this important part to pursue a similar plan; first, namely, thoroughly to im- press on his mind those relatively firm and fixed textures which admit of practical use as land- marks, and not, till this task is completed and these anatomical boundary lines are vividly and individually before him, to fill up his sketch with important organs, or perplex his mind with their surgical relations. I. The muscles. The muscles of the posterior region of the< neck and those of the shoulder having been described in a previous article (see Back), the remainder may be considered in three classes— 1. those which most nearly cleave to the vertebrae, are attached to their processes, and principally affect their motions; 2. those, chiefly in or near the median plane, which belong to the cervical portions of the respiratory and digestive apparatus, to the pharynx, larynx, tongue, and os hyoides; 3. the supeificial muscles of the side of the neck, the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, and the platysma myoides. The first class includes—1. anteriorly, the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major; 2. laterally, the scalenus anticus, scalenus pos- ticus, and inter-transversales, with which may be reckoned the rectus capitis lateralis and rectus capitis anticus minor. 1. Anterior vertebral muscles.—M. longus colli (Pre-dorso-utloidien : Chauss.) is a thin elongated muscle, which occupies an extent in the pre-vertebral region, corresponding to the three upper dorsal and to all the cervical ver- tebrae. In form it is triangular, having its base at the bodies of these vertebrae, and its truncated apex at the middle transverse pro- cesses of the cervical region, and consists of three distinct, though united, parts, which would be represented by the three sides of such a triangle. One portion, the largest, is nearly ver- tical, next to the median line, and a direct flexor of the spine : it originates from the bodies of the three upper dorsal and four lower cer- vical vertebrae, as also from the intervening fibro-cartilages, and, ascending, is inserted by two slips into the anterior surface of the bodies VOL. III. of the second and third vertebras. The second part is directed from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, at which it arisesby tendinous slips,—upward and inward to be inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and it so continues to that bone the previous insertion of the muscle. The remain- ing part detaches itself from the main body of the muscle at the bottom of the neck, and ascends obliquely outward, to infix itself by small tendons at the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. The muscle may, in short, be described as passing from the bodies of the three upper dorsal and four lower to those of the three remaining cervical vertebrae, receiving above an oblique reinforcement from the middle transverse processes of the neck, to which it has likewise below detached slips of insertion. M. rectus capitis anticus major (Grand- trachelo-basilaire : Dumas) lies closely on the vertebrae in the upper part of the neck, to the outside of the preceding muscle. It is an elongated, but thickish, muscle, arising by ten- dinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. These become fleshy, unite as they ascend, and are inserted into the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, beside the median line, and just behind the spine, which attaches the raphe of the pharynx. Its inner edge overlaps the "Jongus colli. These muscles correspond ante- riorly to the great vessels of the neck, to the nerves which accompany them, and to the cervical portions of the respiratory and diges- tive tubes, but are separated by their own dense fascia from immediate relation to these parts. Their deep surface is in intimate connection with all the vertebrae and intervertebral discs, to which they correspond. Their action is incon- siderable; the rectus will slightly rotate and bend the head to its own side,or in conjunction with its fellow directly flex it. The longus colli, cooperating with its fellow, bends the cervical spine; or, acting singly, can slightly rotate by its higher fibres toward, by its lower fibres away from, the side on which the contraction occurs. 2. Lateral vertebral muscles. — The inter- transversales colli are almost described by their name. They form, on each side, a double series of small square muscles, occupying the spaces between the adjoining transverse pro- cesses, which afford them attachment bv both borders of their surface. Arising from the lips, which thechannelled upper surfaceof each trans- verse process presents, they ascend in each space to the borders of the process immediately above, and are there inserted. Between the inter- transversales antici and postici the spinal nerves of the region emerge, and the vertebral artery ascends. Strictly analogous to these are the two small muscles which pass to the occiput from the transverse process of the atlas, the rectus ca- pitis lateralis and rectus capitis anticus minor. The former would represent a posterior, the latter an anterior inter-transversalis. The former 2 o