884 PAR VAGUM. nold was the first who described the ramus auncularis in the human species. Passage of the vagus along the neck to the origin of the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branch —-After the vagus emerges from the in- ferior aperture of the foramen lacerum poste- rius, it lies between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, the artery being internal and anterior, and at first separated a small distance from it, the vein being immedi- ately posterior and external. The glosso-pha- ryngeal is still placed on its anterior side, but soon leaves it and crosses the anterior surface of the internal carotid artery on its way to the root of the tongue. The spinal accessory is still on its posterior side, but a little above the transverse process of the atlas the external branch begins to diverge backwards and out- wards, and passes beneath the upper part of the internal jugular vein to reach the inner sur- face of the upper part of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle. The sympathetic nerve lies immediately posterior to it. The hypoglossal approximates its,outer edge immediately below the foramen lacerum, gradually gets upon its anterior surface, is seen emerging from the angle left between it and the external branch of the accessory, where these nerves begin to sepa- rate, and opposite the transverse process of the atlas, or sometimes a little below this, it has crossed over its anterior edge, and proceeds forwards and inwards to reach the tongue. The hypoglossal, in crossing over the anterior sur- face of the vagus, is very closely bound to it by cellular tissue, and some small communicating branches pass between them. Some small communicating branches also pass between this portion of the vagus and the external branch of the spinal accessory, the superior ganglion of the sympathetic, the glosso-pharyngeal, and the nervous loop formed by the anterior branches of the first and second cervical nerves in front of the transverse process of the atlas. The vagus also in this part of its course generally sends a branch to join the descendens noni, and more rarely the descendens noni is almost entirely or altogether formed by this branch of the vagus.* All these nerves and bloodvessels iii the upper part of the neck are surrounded and connected together by cellular devoid of adipose tissue. The vagus, after joining itself to the internal carotid artery, accompanies it to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid, and then continues its course down the neck, enclosed in the same sheath with the common carotid and internal jugular vein, the artery being internal, and the vein external and also anterior. The nerve maintains the same rela- tion to these two vessels on both sides as far as the lower part of the neck, where on the right side the artery and vein diverge from each other, the artery passing inwards and the vein outwards, to join itself to the vena innominata; while on the left side the vein and artery have * Krause (Handbuch der Menschlichen Anato- mie, S. 1053 & 1063. Hannover, 1842) states that probably these strengthening filaments of the vagus furnish the cardiac branch of the descendens noni. scarcely separated from each other, when the junction between the former and left subclavian vein takes place. On the right side the nerve is seen lying in the interval between the inter- nal jugular and the internal carotid, and while crossing the anterior surface of the right sub- clavian artery nearly at right angles, it sends off the right inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve. On the left side it passes downwards into the thorax, still lying close to the outer side of the left common carotid; but as it proceeds onwards, it crosses obliquely the left subclavian artery near its origin, and passing over the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, it there gives off the left inferior laryngeal nerve. On both sides it passes into the thorax beneath the vena innominata. The vagus, on emerging from the foramen lacerum, is near to the outer edge of the rectus capitis anticus minor muscle and in front of the rectus capitis lateralis; in its pas- sage down the neck it first crosses the anterior surface of the lateral part of the atlas, then proceeds along the anterior surface of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, and lastly it de- scends upon the longus colli. In the upper part of its course it lies deep, and crosses be- neath the styloid process of the temporal bone and stylo-pharyngeus muscle. In the middle of the neck the two vagi nerves have approached nearer to each other, and are much more su- perficial. In the lower part of the neck they are again placed deeper, and are covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno- cleido-mastoid muscles. As the vagus emerges from the lower part of the foramen lacerum, its fibres are arranged somewhat loosely together, and are not enclosed in any dense and compact neuri- lema, so that it is larger here than at the lower part of the neck ; and when the cellular tissue surrounding it is removed, the outline of the superficial fibres can be readily traced. About half an inch below the lower edge of the superior ganglion it enlarges still more, forming an oblong rounded swelling, from nine lines to an inch in length, and extending from about the transverse process of the atlas to midway between the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebra (plexus gan- gliformis nervi vagi, ganglion secundum n.v. of Wutzer, ganglion trunci n. v. of Bendz, ganglion inferiusn.v.) In the human species, though this swelling has a greyish colour, yet its appearance is that of a plexus more than of a true ganglion ; and Valentin states* that he has not yet obtained satisfactory evidence that it contains the ganglionic nucleated globules without the presence of which there can be no true ganglion, and he believes that the greyish * In many of the Mammalia this swelling is more circumscribed and less elongated than in the human species, and forms a very distinct and true ganglion. Bischoff (oper. cit. tab. ii.) has given representations of it in the cat, fox, sow, mole, and weasel ; and Mr. E. Cook, (Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 311,) in the guinea-pig, dog, and sheep. In all these animals it occupies that part of the trunk of the vagus from which the supe- rior laryngeal nerve arises.