MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 530 His musculosa? structure, Lugd. Bat. 1730. In- vestigatio fabrics, quae in partibus musculos component, extat. Lugd. Bat. 1741. Borelli, De motu animalium. Ed. Neapoli, 1734. Cowper, Myotomia Reformata. Introduct. Holler, Ele- ment. Phys. lib.xi. Hales, Statical Essays, Lond. 1741. Prochaska, De came musculari, Vindobon. 1778. Fontana, Traite sur le venin de la vipere, Flor. 1781. J. Hunter, Croonian Lectures, 1781, Works by Palmer, vol. iv., notes by Owen, Lond. 1838. G. R. Treviranus, Vermischte Schriften, Gbtt. 1816, Beitrage zur Auf klarung, &c. P. Mascagni, Prodromo della grande anatomia, Firenze, 1819. Home and Bauer, Phil. Trans. 1818 and 1826. Milne Edwards, Memoire sur la struct, element. &c. Paris, 1823 ; Ann. des Sciences, 1826. Pre- vost & Dumas, Majendie Journal de Physiologie, 1825. Hodgkin and Lister, Appendix to a Trans- lation of W. F. Edwards " on the Influence of Phy- sical Agents on Life;" and Annals of Philosophy, 1827. Valentin, Histor. evolutionis syst. muse, prolusio. Wratislav. 1832 ; Ueber den Verlauf und die letzten Enden der Nerven. F. C. Emmert, Ueber Endigungsweise der Nerven in den Muskeln, Bern. 1836. E. Burdach, Beitrag zur Mikrosko- pisch. Anatomie der Nerven, Konigsburg, 1837. Roulin, Majendie Journal, vol. i. G. H. Meyer, Diss. Inaug. de Muscul. in duct, efferent, gland. Berol. 1837. Krohn, Muller's Archiv. Jahrg. 1837 ; Heft. 3, 4; Brit, and For. Med. Rev. Ap. 1838. Ficimis, De fibrai muscularis forma et structura, Lipsis, 1836. Schwann, in Mutter's Physiology by Balg, Lond. 1837-41. Baly, in the same, pt. iv. description of plate. Lauth, L'Institut, No. 73. Skey, Phil. Trans. 1837. Malgaigne, Anatomie Chirurg. vol. i. Mandl, Anatomie Microscopique; Traite Pratique du Microscope, Paris, 1839. Gul- liver, Observations on the muse, fibres of the cesoph. and heart, &c. Zoolog. Proceed. No. 81, 1839. Henle, Allgemeine Anatomie, Soemmering, 6ter Band. 1841. Palicki, De museulosa cordis structura, Wratisl. 1839. Barry, Phil Trans. 1839-40-41-42. Bowman, Phil. Trans. 1840-41. ( W. Bowman.) MUSCULAR SYSTEM, (Comparative Anatomy of).—The muscular system of ani- mals, as the term is generally understood, is composed of masses or fasciculi of highly irri- table filaments, by the contractions of which the movements of the body, whether voluntary or involuntary, are effected, and the arrange- ment of these moving powers, their size and strength, forms and general disposition, must of course vary ad infinitum in the different classes of animals, in conformity with the varie- ties of their external form, or the innumerable kinds of apparatus conferred, for special pur- poses, upon particular tribes or even species of living beings. Of these detailed accounts are elsewhere given in those articles which treat of the structure and anatomy of each class entering into the composition of the animal kingdom. Nevertheless, it has been deemed advisable, upon the present occasion, to collect together in one view the principal facts connected with general myology, and to state, as briefly and concisely as the nature of the subject will allow, those grand physiological points which an extended review of the comparative organi- zation and development of the muscular system reveals to the anatomical observer, in order to concatenate the leading facts recorded in other pages of this work. It may be laid down as an axiom universal in its application, that the condition of the muscular system in any race of animals must be dependent upon, or at least in strict conformity with, the development of the nervous apparatus, by the influence of which muscular movements are excited, controlled, directed, and associated. Thus, as we advance from lower to more elevated forms of living creatures, it is easy to perceive that in exact proportion as the nervous system makes its appearance, and becomes pro- gressively more elaborately organized, the mus- cles themselves become developed and assume a perfection of structure and precision of move- ment adapted to the increasing exigencies of the animal economy; nay,it has now been satisfacto- rily established that even among the highest races of the animal creation, during the progress of embryo development, the most intimate relation is observable between the state of the nervous centres and the condition of the nascent muscles as they become gradually formed and perfected. In the lowest Zoophytes where nervous fibres of any kind are not perceptible, even under the most rigid microscopical examination, the con- tractile tissue of the body is equally diffused and devoid of aggregation into filaments or fasciculi of muscular fibre, and precisely under the same conditions the first rudiment of the vertebrate embryo, being as yet entirely devoid of nerves, is also destitute of distinct mus- cles, the movements of which could only be associated and rendered efficacious by means of nervous intercommunication; and this com- plete want of aggregation of the elements of muscular tissue is as remarkable throughout all the Acrite division of the animal world as it is in the nervous matter entering into the compo- sition of their bodies, which, although its pre- sence is not to be detected by our senses, is rea- sonably supposed to exist in a diffused state even in the lowest tribes of animated beings. As soon as nervous threads become apparent, and long before ganglionic masses of neurine are developed to such an extent as to entitle them to be regarded as centres of innervation, the muscular tissue, in like manner, assumes a different and far more perfect character; the elementary molecules composing muscular fibre are then distinctly visible, and assuming a defi- nite arrangement become grouped in longitu- dinal series, exhibiting contractile bands and fascicles placed in precise directions, and capa- ble of effecting movements of a more decided character than could possibly be exercised in creatures deprived of nervous cords, whereby the contractions of numerous muscular fasciculi might be associated and made to cooperate for the accomplishment of a given purpose. Moreover, it must be obvious that, in that great division of the animal creation which is characterized by the existence of nervous fila- ments, the ganglionic centres being as yet imperceptible, or at least where any have been detected, in a very rudimentary state of de- velopment (the Nematoneura of Professor Owen); such a condition of the nervous appa- ratus involves, as a necessary consequence, important circumstances connected with the general economy of the beings so organized as