OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 831 Fig. 441. Skull of the Crocodile of the Nile. the most complicated condition of this portion of the skeleton. The higher cartilaginous Fishes, however, ( Chondropteri/gii,) form a very remarkable exception; for in the Rays and Sharks the face is reduced to a very simple condition, in consequence of the want of sepa- ration between the different pieces of the skele- ton, consequent on the permanently cartilaginous state of the osseous system in these tribes. • The suborbital bones in Fishes (Jig. 437, g, g, g, g) form a kind of chain composed of a very variable number of pieces which surround the inferior and external margin of the orbit, covering the muscles of the face instead of giving attachment to them, a circumstance which induced Cuvier to believe that they did not normally belong to the series of facial bones. They are doubtless referable to the exo-skeleton or cuticular bones so largely developed in some fishes, and in this light they will be considered in another place. The prienasal bones, Owen; (nasal bones, Cuv.) of a Fish (jig. 436, 20) are found in a situation very analogous to that which they occupy in the higher Vertebrata. They form the internal boundaries of the nasal cham- ber, and articulate superiorly with the frontal (1). These bones are regarded by Professor Owen as being the representatives of the moveable cartilages of the nose of other Ver- tebrata ossified and entering into the composi- tion of the facial skeleton. Besides the suborbital chain of bones (g,g,s.g) above mentioned as partially surrounding the orbit, and which in the Gurnards and other hard-cheeked Fishes cover the cheeks as with a bony case, entitling them to the name applied to them by Cuvier of " joues cuirasses," another chain of bones called the supra-temporal is not unfrequently met with, placed on each side, over the interval that separates the external from the middle prominent ridge, developed from the exterior of the cranium so as, together with these projections, to cover the articulation of the supra-scapular bone (46). These bones are evidently peculiar to Fishes, and, like the sub- orbital, must be referred to the exoskeleton and not deemed to belong properly to the o-seous system. In this light they will be con- sidered in another place. Fig. 442. Section of Crocodile's skull. The palatine arch or osseous roof of the mouth is composed of analogous bones in all the different races of Vertebrata; but in the lower Vertebrata there are found in connection with this region of the skeleton several pieces that have no representatives in the higher classes.