721e PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. herent in the medullary pulp of the nerves, and is not simply derived from the brain, but that a certain cohesion of the medullary pulp of the nerves is necessary for the developement of the vis nervosa, because if by compressing a nerve strongly we injure its medulla, so as to disturb the connection of its particles, the nervous force ceases in that part of the com- pressed nerve, nor are impressions propagated further by it, nor if that part of the nerve be stimulated can sensation or motion be pro- duced. Although, he says, a nerve is necessary for sense and motion, it is not it alone which feels or moves ; it feels by the brain, which, when an impression made upon a nerve is conveyed to it, represents that impression to the mind; and a nerve causes motion by the muscle when an impression, communicated to the nerve, de- scends to the muscle and excites it to motion. He concludes thus: " Par itaque nervi, in sensu et motu ciendo, est officium, nimirum im- pressionem stimuli recipere, et per totam suam longitudinem celerrime propagare, qure dum ad cerebrum pervenit, sensus perceptionem causat, dum vero ad musculum, ejus contrac- tionem ciet." Prochaska recognises the influence of the nerves upon the bloodvessels, and ascribes va- rious familiar phenomena to this influence, either excited by direct contact of the nerves of the part, or, if the nerves be indirectly affected through the brain (si isti nervi non immediate, sed mediante cerebro afficiantur). Thus he refers to redness of the skin of the face occasioned by exposure to a cold wind, redness of the conjunctiva caused by some irri- tant, erection of the nipple of the breast by titillation, erection of the penis by similar means or through mental emotion, blushing, &c. He puts forward the notion that the aug- mentation of the nervous force in any part causes an attraction of fluids to that part, as sealing-wax, when rubbed with cloth, becomes electrical and attracts various small particles. To a similar attraction of fluids he ascribes muscular action and many other phenomena, such as the menstrual Mux, the action of the iris, &c. He also discusses the question whe- ther the nerves have any power over the secre- tions, whether they contribute in any way to the production of animal heat, and how far they are necessary to nutrition. The fourth chapter describes the sensqrium commune, its functions, and its seat. Here it is that Prochaska has put forward his views respecting reflex actions. External impres- sions, which are made upon sensitive nerves, are propagated with great velocity throughout their entire length to their origin, where, (to use his own phrase,) when they have arrived, they are reflected according to a certain law, and pass into certain and responding (certos ac respondentes) motor nerves, by which again being very quickly propagated to muscles they excite certain and determinate movements. This place, he says, in which, as in a centre, nerves of sense and of motion meet and commu- nicate, and in which " the impressions of sensitive nerves are reflected into motor nerves," is called, by a term already received by most physiologists, " the sensorium commune." Having referred to the various views of different physiologists as to the seat of the sensorium. commune, he expresses his own opinion, that the sensorium commune, properly so called, extends throughout the medulla oblongata, the crura cerebri and cerebelli, a part of the optic thalami, and the entire spinal cord,—in a word, as far as the origins of the nerves extend. That the sensorium commune extends to the spinal cord is shown by those movements which con- tinue in animals after decapitation, which can- not be effected without the cooperation of nerves which arise from the spinal cord ; for if a decapitated frog be pricked, not only does it retract the stimulated part, but also it creeps, and leaps, which could not be done without the consentaneous action (absque consensu) of sen- sitive and motor nerves, the seat of which con- sentaneous action must be in the medulla spi- nalis, superstite sensorii communis parte. That Prochaska viewed these acts as purely physical in their nature, is apparent from his statement, that they take place under peculiar laws, written, as it were, by nature on the me- dullary pulp of the sensorium. The general law, however, whereby the sensorium com- mune reflects sensorial into motor impressions (impressiones sensorias in motorias rerlectit) is our preservation; so that certain motor impres- sions should succeed to such external impres- sions as might be injurious to our bodies. In illustration he refers to certain acts of this class, such as, irritation of the mucous membrane of the nose creating a violent act of expiration (sneezing) to expel the offending material from the nostril; the spasmodic closure of the glottis when a particle of food or a drop of fluid touches it, or the act of winking excited by the finger being brought close to the eye. Prochaska points out that these reflex actions may take place with or without consciousness (vel anima inscia, vel vero anima conscia). In proof of this occurrence without consciousness he refers to certain acts which are observed in apoplectic patients, to the convulsions of epi- lepsy, and to certain actions in profound sleep ; all those actions which occur in decapitated animals he refers to this class, and regards them as being regulated by the remaining portion of the sensorium commune which is seated in the spinal cord. " Omnes istae actiones ex organisnio et physicis legibus, sensorio communi propriis, fluunt, suntque, propterea, spontanea ac au- tomatical." Actions, however, which the mind directs and moderates by its control, although the sensorium commune may take its share in producing them, may be called animal, and not automatic. The second paragraph of this chapter con- tains an excellent discussion of the question, how far the anastomoses of nerves contribute to their mutual action upon each other, or whether that takes place only through the sensorium commune. On this subject Prochaska adopts the opinions of Whytt, who regarded the nervous centre as essential to these actions, and in the