PISCES. 905 3 s 2 and vary much in their size and composition in different Fishes. For the most part they are simple, but sometimes double or triple; and occasionally they are composed of numerous filaments united into fasciculi. Generally they present a ganglionic enlargement just after their origin from the brain, or immediately before their termination in the olfactory organ, to the plicated folds of the lined membrane of which they are ultimately distributed. 2. The optic nerves (fig. 529, 2) arise from the second pair of the great cerebral masses, which from this circumstance have been called the optic lobes of the brain. Shortly after their origin the two nerves cross each other, but in the generality of osseous Fishes this is effected without any union of substance, the two nerves being simply united by cellular tissue (Jig. 528, n). In the Skates, however, a commissure exists similar to that which is met with in the higher Vertebrata. In some Fishes each optic nerve consists of a broad flat nervous band folded upon itself like a fan, and enclosed in a tube of neurilemma derived from the dura mater; but in others their structure resembles that which exists generally in the higher ani- mals. 3. The third pair or motor oculi (Jig. 529, 3) arises from the medulla oblongata in the track of the pyramidal bodies, and is distributed, as in other Vertebrata, to all the muscles of the eye, with the exception of the superior oblique and external rectus. It likewise furnishes cili- ary nerves, but no ophthalmic ganglion has yet been discovered in the class before us. 4. The fourth pair (fig. 529,4) arises just behind the posterior point of the optic lobe from the roof of the ventricle, and terminates in the superior oblique muscle of the eye. 5. The fifth pair of nerves (fig. 529, 5) arises from the sides of the fourth ventricle near the base of the cerebellum. It issues from the cranium through a foramen in the great alar bone, and is distributed as follows:—1. It gives off an ophthalmic branch which runs along the roof of the orbit, and passing on towards the nose is distributed to the adjacent parts of the face as far as the snout and intermaxillary bone. 2. A superior maxillary branch, which passes under the eye to be distributed to the cheek and to the superior maxilla; it likewise sends a branch towards the nostrils and anas- tomoses with the pterygo-palatine nerve. 3. An inferior maxillary brunch, which is fre- quently only a division of the preceding: this gives filaments to the posterior part of the palate, and passes on to the inferior maxilla and its dental canal. Frequently the palatine filaments proceed from a special branch. 4. A pterygo-palatine branch, which runs forwards, crossing the floor of the orbit beneath the muscles of the eyeball, follows the course of the vomer, and passes beneath this bone and the os palati to terminate at the end of the muzzle, where it is frequently joined by re- markable anastomoses with the superior maxil- lary branch. 5. An opercular branch, which passes through a canal in the os temporale and gives branches to the temporal muscle, Fig. 529. Brain and cerebral nerves of Cool fish (Gadus mor- rhua). (After Swan.) a, olfactory lobes ; b, hollow or cerebral lobes; c, cerebellum ; d, medulla oblongata ; e, olfactory apparatus ; f, eye-ball; </, superior oblique muscle ; h, external rectus; the numbers I, 2, 3, 4, &c, in- dicate the corresponding cerebral nerves. to die cheek, to the muscles of the operculum, and to the operculum itself; it then penetrates internally to join with branches of the inferior maxillary divisions and to supply filaments to the branchiostegous membrane. 6. The fifth pair almost invariably gives off'a branch which mounts to the upper part of the cranium, and joining a branch of the eighth pair issues