692 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) b. Thf upper and posterior lobes, connected by the single commissure, to be sought for on the floor of the.posterior notch. 2. On the inferior surface of the hemi- spheres. a. The amygdala:, united by the spigot. b. The biveutral lobes. c. The slender lobes. The biventral lobes and the anterior laminae of the slender lobes are united by the pyramid. d. The posterior inferior lobes, connected by the short and exposed and the long and hidden commissures. The flocks or lobules of the pneumogastric nerve, (lobule of the auditory nerve, Foville,) which are situate altogether anterior to the hemispheres and attached to each crus, are united by the posterior medullary velum, and through it appear to have some connection with the most anterior portion of the inferior vermi- form process. A vertical section of either hemisphere of the cerebellum or of its median lobe displays its structure, and serves further to demonstrate the subdivision into lobes above described. When either hemisphere is cut in the vertical direction, the surface of the section displays a beautiful ramification of fibrous matter, the smaller branches of which are enveloped by laminae of grey matter. This appearance has such a resemblance to the trunk of a tree with its boughs and branches, that it early received and has continued to retain the name of arbor vitis. The trunk of the tree is represented by a central nucleus of white matter, from the upper and lower surfaces of which branch off, some at a right, others at an acute angle, several laminae, each of which forms the parent stem of a number of other branches. Each of the primary branches is the foundation or cen- tral stem of a lobule. Lamina? of fibrous mat- ter are seen branching from both sides of it immediately after its separation from the nu- cleus. Sometimes the primary branch bifur- cates, and each division of it forms the stem of what may be called a sub-lobule. The ul- timate branchings are covered by a layer of grey matter. If we suppose that one of the primary branches is composed of a certain number of lamina of fibrous matter, the se- condary ramifications from it will in a great degree correspond. In most instances these secondary branches subdivide into two or more tertiary ones, which, as well as the branch from which they spring, are enclosed in grey matter. (Figs. 380, 386.) A vertical section of the median lobe gives quite a similar appearance to that of the hemispheres. The central nucleus breaks up into primary branches,which become the centre of the lobules of which it consists. ( Figs. 386, 393.) The ramifications of the central nucleus, whether of the median lobe or of the hemi- spheres, separate from it only in the vertical plane or from before backwards; in the latter direction, however, to a very slight extent. Hence these branches are directed only up- wards, or downwards, or backwards. The fibrous matter of the median lobe is continuous, without any line of demarcation, with that of the hemispheric lobules. By reason of this disposition of the fibrous matter, the surface which is exposed by a horizontal section through the entire cerebellum, presents a very different appearance from that which results from a vertical section. It consists of a plane of fibrous matter bounded on the sides and behind by a narrow cortex of grey matter. The white matter consists exclusively of fibres, chiefly of the tubular kind and of all degrees of size. These, in the more distant ramifications, penetrate the vesicular matter of their grey cortex, and form some unknown con- nection with its elements. The grey matter consists of three layers, readily distinguishable by the naked eye from their difference of co- lour. The external layer is the darkest, and consists chiefly of granular and vesicular mat- ter. The next or intermediate layer is of a light colour, and is composed of a stratum of fine nucleus-like particles. The third layer has the greatest thickness, and is immediately in con- tact with the fibrous matter; it is intermediate in point of colour to the other two, and con- sists of numerous vesicles of the caudate kind, especially with branching processes and nerve- tubes of all sizes. The dark colour of the external layer is doubtless owing in a great measure to the great numbers of capillary ves- sels which enter it; the greater paleness of the inner stratum is to be attributed to the inter- mixture of the white fibres, whilst the light colour of the middle stratum is intrinsic. From the usual dependent position of the cerebellum in the dead body, it always appears to contain more blood than the cerebrum. Corpus dentatum.—If, in making a vertical section of either hemisphere of the cerebellum, the incision be made so as to leave two-thirds of the hemisphere on its outside, a peculiarity will be observed on the surface of the section which deserves a separate consideration. The central white nucleus is interrupted by a very remarkable undulating line of vesicular matter, which is convex towards the posterior margin of the hemisphere, but open in front towards the crus cerebelli. This constitutes the corpus dentatum or rhomboideum of the cerebellum. It presents a remarkable resemblance to the structure of the same name which is met with in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata. It is evidently a capsule of vesicular matter which is enclosed in the inner third of the substance of the central white nucleus of the cerebellar hemisphere, being nearer its superior than its inferior sur- face. The peculiar undulating arrangement of it doubtless has reference to the accommoda- tion of a certain extent of surface in a limited space. The fibrous matter enclosed by it seems derived from the processus cerebelli and f,om the restiform body. The central stem of fibrous matter to which the several lobules, both of the hemispheres and the median lobe of the cerebellum, adhere, ( crus cerebelli,) is formed by three bundles of fibres, each situate on a different plane. These «