PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 723b corresponding sensorial impression; and from the connections which subsist between the reti- nae, and still more from that between the cen- tres of sensation, these impressions become fused into one. In like manner the organic changes in the two brains developing nervous force in similar modes and proportions, each being capable of affecting the mind similarly, although perhaps not identically, are yet so united in their action that the double organic affection acts on the mind as one. But if, through default of the connecting media of the two brains, or through lesion of one, the organic changes in each do not harmonise with those in its fellow, then it is plain that two separate and distinct mental affections will result, and more or less of confusion must ensue. I can see no ground for inferring the existence of two minds from such a supposition. The confu- sion results from the want of simultaneous affection of the same mind by two distinct and separate brains. If, in vision, each centre of sensation affected only its own mind, or, in other words, developed only its own mental phenomena, as Dr. VVigan's theory would compel us to assume, then each mind would perceive a different perspective projection of the object presented to the eyes, and an elaborate and complex mental process would be required to combine the two sensorial im- pressions. How much simpler is the view of this process which assigns the combination of the double impression to a physical union in the brain of each physical change in the retina; so that, in truth, but one impression, different from each of its excitant ones, reaches the mind. So also, in the normal intellectual ac- tion, the organic changes of the two brains are united by the various transverse commissures, so that but one physical stimulus affects the mind and excites but one train of thought. Not so, however, when from any defect in the brains themselves, or in the commissures, the physical conditions necessary for the organic states of the two brains cannot be fulfilled. Dr. Wigan's theory is inconsistent with the acknowledged fact of the existence of an im- perfect symmetry of the convolutions in per- sons possessing the highest order of mind. If the two brains always act in harmony, there ought to be perfect symmetry. But if we ad- mit that the mind may have the initiative, then it is easy to understand how one brain may be used more than another. That a power exists of using one brain more than another, seems probable from the more frequent and more perfect use of one hand ; and the existence of such a power implies also a capability of keeping one brain in suspense while the other is acting, under particular cir- cumstances, just as we can suspend the use of one arm or one finger or one eye, although the exercise of its fellow prompts greatly to its simultaneous action. Sleep is an affection of the centre of intel- lectual action, a condition rendered necessary by the incessant working of the mind. It is indicated by the cessation of all mental nervous actions. In deep sleep the body is given up to the physical nervous actions only, without which the functions of breathing, circulation, &c, could not be carried on. Dreaming occurs only in imperfect sleep,—often, if not always, just before waking,—and serves to show how the organic changes of the centre of intellectual action, when uncontrolled, may produce the most rapid trains of thought, recalling events or impressions that have passed away, and which we may have thought had been forgotten. Coma is sleep of the profoundest kind, a paralysis, indeed, of the centre of intellectual action, as well as of sensation and volition. It occurs under states of disease, which induce compression of the brain, or under states of shock, which suspend or greatly diminish its natural changes, as in concussion. Or it may be induced by the influence of certain poisons of the sedative or narcotic kind, as opium and belladonna, which, if given in too large a dose, paralyse first the centres of mental nervous ac- tions, and ultimately those of physical nervous actions. Somnambulism must be regarded as a state of intense dreaming, in which the person is prompted to the performance of certain acts. Talking in one's sleep, the curious changes of position which are made under the influence of nightmare, and even the most complex actions, as walking, or taking things from one place to another, or holding a long conversation, are all induced by the same state, a morbid condition of the centre of intellectual action, generally produced by deranged assimilation or great pre- vious disturbance of mind. The somnambulist, in short, is one who dreams and acts in his dream as if he were awake, and as if all the phenomena of which he takes cognizance were real. Delirium is a condition very analogous to dreaming. The organic changes in the centre of intellectual action are too rapid to be con- trolled by the will, or the influence of the centre of volition is impaired. The ravings of a delirious patient generally take place uncon- sciously, as if the centre of sensation were im- paired likewise. In most instances, however, the patient may be roused; a strong stimulus, as in addressing him with a loud voice, will affect his centre of sensation, and he either controls his thoughts for a brief space, and directs his attention to what is going on, or the effect of the stimulus is to direct his ravings into some new channel. The incoherent and unconnected manner in which thought follows thought in the delirious stale is sufficient proof that the centre of intellectual action requires the controlling power of a will for perfect trains of thought, as much as any particular set of muscles requires the same influence for the accomplishment of definite action. Delirium, indeed, may be viewed as a sub- jective phenomenon of the centre of intellectual action, just as tinnitus aurium or ocular spectra are subjective phenomena of the centre of sen- sation. In analysing the fibres of the centrum ovale we find that a large number of them is com- missural, but that the greatest proportion of