us Centres. The Encephalon.) 684 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervc space between them, and the central columns do not extend to the surface; and from the absence of any great developement of grey matter, we find no such arrangement as that which gives rise to the corpus dentutum in man. The olivary or central columns of the me- dulla oblongata pass into the mesocephale, occupying a plane superior to that of the py- ramidal fibres and of the transverse fibres. They may be traced upwards to the crus cerebri, where they seem to merge into the optic tha- lami, and to form a connection with the corpora quadrigemina posteriorly. These columns are seen distinctly in their ascent to the brain in the fourth ventricle, as two cylindrical columns (A, ¥,jig. 386). They form the floor of that cavity and are separated from each other by the longitudinal fissure which is continued upwards from the posterior fissure of the medulla oblongata. In the fourth ventricle the olivary columns are crossed by the fibres of origin of the portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, the white colour of which in the recent speci- men contrasts strikingly with the greyish hue of the columns themselves. We here see dis- tinctly that these columns are the source of origin of these nerves, and no doubt they are equally so of all the nerves which are con- nected with the medulla oblongata, namely, the fifth pair, the eighth, the ninth, and pro- bably also of the sixth. The relation of the olivary columns in their upward course, to the other constituents of the mesocephale and crura cerebri, may be conveniently demonstrated in examining tranverse sections of those parts. We shall, therefore, return to this subject in descri- bing the anatomy of those portions of the brain. The following interpretation of the various columns of the medulla oblongata, referred to in the preceding description, has much foun- dation in their anatomical relations. The olivary or central columns constitute the fundamental part of the medulla oblongata; that, on which its action as a distinct and in- dependent centre depends, and in which the proper nerves of this segment of the ence- phalon are implanted. The continuity of those columns with the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemina materially enhances their phy- siological influence, and denotes their intimate association with some of the most important functions of the brain. And it may be added, that this connection of the medulla oblongata with parts which are ordinarily described as pertaining to the brain itself, shews that the original application of the term by Willis and Vieussens to a much greater extent of the en- cephalon is certainly more consistent with the physiological anatomy than that which is now employed for the convenience of description. There can be no doubt that the extent of this central and fundamental portion of the nervous system is limited above by the optic thalami and below by the spinal cord. The anterior pyramids connect the cerebral hemispheres with the spinal cord, the prin- cipal bundles of fibres decussating each other on the middle line, so that the right pyramid is the medium of connection by the greater number of its fibres between the right hemi- sphere of the brain and the left half of the cord, but by a much smaller number between that same hemisphere and the right half of the cord. And so also of the left, mutatis mu- tandis. It is highly probable too that the anterior pyramids derive fibres from the locus niger of the crus cerebri and the vesicular matter of the mesocephale. These fibres, therefore, connect those segments with the spinal cord, but whe- ther they contribute to the formation of the decussating or non-decussating bundles, or to that of both, it is impossible to determine. The restiform bodies are evidently the con- necting fibres between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the posterior and antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. And the pos- terior pyramids connect the posterior part of the medulla oblongata with the cervical and dorsal regions of the cord. Nerves.—Numerous nerves are connected with the medulla oblongata—a fact which serves greatly to enhance its importance as a centre of nervous action. These nerves are the sixth pair, which are connected with the ante- rior pyramids just behind the posterior border of the pons; the ninth pair, or hypoglossal nerves, which emerge along the anterior border of the olivary body; the seventh pair (portio mollis and portio dura), which emerge just be- hind the upper extremity of the olivary body ; and the eighth pair, which arise along the pos- terior margin of the olivary body. Of the mesocephale. — The pyramidal and olivary columns may be readily traced, as already explained, from the medulla oblongata up to the cerebral hemispheres; the former becoming united chiefly with the corpora striata, the latter with the optic thalami. In that part of their course which is interme- diate to the medulla oblongata these columns become mingled with certain transverse fibres, and with more or less of vesicular matter, and with them contribute to form a mass which is the connecting link between all the segments of the cerebellum, and may be compared to a rail- road station, at which several lines meet and cross each other. This is the mesocepliule or mesencephale. The name was suggested by Chaussier, inasmuch as it forms " to a certain extent the middle and central part of the ence- phalic organ, the bond which unites the several bundles of fibres which contribute to its for- mation." The mesocephale may be isolated from the other segments by dividing the crura cerebri just beyond the anterior margin of the pons, and the crura cerebelli as they penetrate the he- mispheres, and the medulla oblongata on a level with the posterior edge of the pons. The crura cerebri emerge from it in front: the medulla oblongata is connected with its posterior sur- face : on either side it is prolonged into a crus cerebelli. Its inferior surface, which is very convex and looks forwards, is composed of the thick layer of arched fibres which form the