PERITONEUM. 938 It seems as though the gall-duct in gaining the shortest route from the liver to the duode- num had carried out the superjacent peritoneum from the cardia and lesser gastric curvature into a fold, as far out as the position of the straightest line from the porta to the pylorus; that this fold would have projected in the middle line, but that the enlargement of the right lobe of the liver displaced its posterior part with the cardia to the left, whilst the duodenum being brought into adhesion with the posterior abdominal walls displaced its anterior part to the right, and that both displacements have resulted in an almost transverse instead of an antero-poste- rior horizontal direction. In many vertebrate animals, especially those below the class Mam- malia, the duodenum is not adherent to the posterior abdominal parietes,and the pylorus as well as the cardia is frequently in the middle line, whilst the two lobes of the liver are of pretty equal transverse extent; in such cases the lesser omentum extends antero-posteriorly in the middle line, (figs. 490, 491,) and this, we consider, is its typical position. This point will be more fully considered when we come to a particular description of the omenta; at pre- sent we are endeavouring to demonstrate the continuity, merely, of the peritoneum through- out : it is the existence of the omenta, or rather their distorted position in the human subject, that renders this demonstration so difficult. It is necessary at this stage of our description to study the peritoneal sheet, or bag, with two free surfaces, called the greater omentum. On making an incision, as above, through the abdo- minal parietes, the liver and stomach are at once brought into view; but the small intes- tines are concealed by the great omentum co- vering them in front. It is a membraniform apron, having plentiful reticulations of vessels, and often loaded with fat, especially near the vessels. Viewing it undisturbed it appears to be pendent from the greater curvature of the stomach, and to have a free inferior border touching, usually, the pelvic region; but on lifting it up and looking at its posterior aspect, it is seen to be attached also to the transverse portion of the colon, which at once informs one that it is double. The fact of its being double, however, may be much more strikingly demon- strated in the following manner. If a catheter be held in the foramen of Winslow, and air be blown through it, the great omentum (provided there be no abnormal breach of continuity or adhesion in it) will become inflated like a great bladder; the inflation extending, not only downwards below the greater curve of the sto- mach, but to the left beyond its fundus, and also to the lesser omentum. The cavity so in- flated is called the sac of the omentum, or the posterior cavity of the peritoneum, and the fo- ramen of Winslow is the orifice that leads to this sac—the neck that connects together the ante- rior and posterior cavities of the peritoneum, making them one. The foramen of Winslow is not generally big enough to admit more than one or two fingers to be passed through it; but an incision being made through the lesser omentum, the hand may be introduced into the omental sac and passed downwards behind the stomach and in front of the transverse colon, until it reaches the lowermost extent of the great omentum, or bot- tom of the great omental pouch ; it will thus be between the two layers of what we considered like a double apron, but which, rather, is a pouch. The hand may now be carried in either lateral direction until it is arrested by the sides of the pouch, which correspond, on the right with the point where the colon crosses the duo- denum, and on the left with the point where the colon, from being transverse, becomes de- scending,—that is to say, the sides of the pouch hang down from these points. Above the latter point, the hand may be carried towards the left, beyond the fundus of the stomach and some- what behind the spleen, where it will be arrested by an attachment to the posterior parietes, the line of which extends from the cardia to the left bend of the colon. There is, therefore, a great pouch of perito- neum, the inside and outside of which are both free; and consequently it has an internal or lining layer and an external layer; we will presently show how these are continuous with each other and with the peritoneal investments of surrounding parts. The left side of the mouth of this pouch is carried up into a long corner reaching the cardia ; its continuous line of attachment extends from the cardia along the greater curvature of the stomach to the pylorus ; then along a small extent of the duodenum till it reaches the transverse colon; next along the transverse colon to its left bend, and thence along on the posterior abdominal parietes of the left hypochondriac region, or rather over the left kidney, to the cardia whence we started. The spleen is sessile upon the external surface of this bag to the left of the fundus of the sto- mach. That portion of it which intervenes between the stomach and colon is called the great omentum, and that portion which is situated to the left of the fundus of the stomach is called the splenic omentum. We may now return to our demonstration of the continuity of the peritoneum by tracing its free surface as before. The two surfaces or layers of the lesser omentum were seen to be continuous around the vessels enclosed in its free right border, at the foramen of Winslow. These two layers, as yet adherent, separate at the lesser gastric curvature, invest the stomach —one behind and the other in the front—meet again, and again adhere along the fundus and greater curvature, forming a sheet with two free surfaces, which to the right extends to the spleen and abdominal parietes, and downwards to the transverse colon ; that part of it, however, which intervenes between the stomach and colon is bagged out or excessively widened so as, in ordinary circumstances, to hang down in a pouch as low as the pelvis. Having reached the front of the transverse colon, the layers again separate to invest it—one above and the other below-—meet again on its posterior aspect, and again adhering together form the transverse me- socolon, which extends from the colon to the posterior abdominal parietes, where having ar-