PISCES. 9.35 PISCES. (Eng. Fishes; Fr. Poissons; Germ. Fiscke.)—The lowest class of the ver- tebrate division of the animal kingdom, em- bracing numerous oviparous races of beings fitted by their organization to live only in water, and consequently they are the appro- priate inhabitants of the ocean and of inland streams and lakes. Being strictly aquatic in their habits, Fishes respire through the medium of the element in which they live by means of gills or branchia, that are connected with a framework of bony or cartilaginous arches situa- ted on the sides of the neck, to which the water obtains free access, generally passing in at the mouth and escaping through lateral openings situated behind the head. Their heart is bilocu- lar, and consists of an auricle and ventricle, which, receiving the venous blood from the sys- tem, propel it over the respiratory surface, whence it is collected into an arterial trunk, the aorta, by which it is distributed over the body without the intervention of a systemic heart. Their blood is of very low temperature, and their bodies are generally covered with scales of va- rious kinds, whereby they are preserved from maceration in the surrounding water, and fitted to glide smoothly through the fluid medium wherein they live. Their principal instrument of progression is their tail, which is generally expanded into a broad fin, that strikes the water by alternate lateral movements. Besides this caudal fin others are frequently met with situated along the median line of the body, to which the names of dorsal and anal fins have been appropriated accordingly as they are situa- ted upon the back or behind the anal outlet of the body. The position of these azygos fins is vertical, and their use to a fish is similar to that of the keel or of the helm to a ship. The repre- sentatives of the anterior and posterior extremi- ties of other Vertebrata likewise take the form of fins, and are only fitted for progression in the water: these are generally four in number, namely, the two pectoral fins, which represent the anterior extremities; and the two ventral Jins, corresponding with the posterior limbs of Quadrupeds. Great variety is met with both in the number and position of these locomotive members; generally all four are present; fre- quently one pair is deficient, and sometimes they are altogether wanting. In situation they likewise vary, more especially the ventral pair, which in some races, instead of being behind, are situated in front of the abdomen, in con- nection with the scapular apparatus, and even anterior to the pectoral fins. In the construction of their cerebral system Fishes evidently stand lowest in the vertebrate scale, and every part of their economy indicates their inferiority to Reptiles, Birds, and Mam- mals. The general attributes of Fishes and their relative position in the animal scale are so well laid down by their great modern historian, Cuvier, that it would be presumptuous not to give his own words. " Breathing by the medium of water, that is to say, only profiting by the small quan- tity of oxygen contained in the air mixed with the water, their blood remains cold; their vita- lity, the energy of their senses and movements are less than in Mammalia and Birds. Thus their brain, although similar in composition, is proportionally much smaller, and their external organs of sense not calculated to impress upon it powerful sensations."* " Fishesarein fact, of all the Vertebrata, those which give the least apparent evidence of sensi- bility. Having no elastic air at their disposal, they are dumb, or nearly so, and all the senti- ments which voice awakens or entertains they are strangers to. Their eyes are as it were mo- tionless, their face bony and fixed, their limbs incapable of flexion and moving as one piece, leaving no play to their physiognomy, no ex- pression to their feelings. Their ear, enclosed entirely in the cranium, without external concha, or internal cochlea, composed only of some sacs and membranous canals, can hardly suffice to distinguish the most striking sounds, and, moreover, they have little use for the sense of hearing, condemned to live in the empire of silence, where every thing around is mute." " Even their sight in the depths which they frequent could have little exercise, if most of them had not, in the size of their eyes, a means of compensation for the feebleness of the light; but even in these the eye hardly changes its direction, still less by altering its dimensions can it accommodate itself to the distances of objects. The iris never dilates or contracts, and the pupil remains the same in all intensities of illumination. No tear ever waters the eye—no eyelid wipes or protects it—it is in the Fish but a feeble representative of this organ, so beau- tiful, so lively, and so animated in the higher classes of animals." " Being only able to support itself by pursuing a prey which itself swims more or less rapidly, having no means of seizing it but by swallow- ing, a delicate perception of savours would have been useless, if nature had bestowed it; but their tongue almost motionless, often entirely bony or coated with dental plates, and only furnished with slender nerves, and these few in number, shews us that this organ also is as obtuse as its little use would lead us to ima- gine it." " Their smell even cannot be exercised so continually as in animals which respire air and have their nostrils constantly traversed by odorous vapours." " Lastly, their touch, almost annihilated at the surface of their body by the scales which clothe them, and in their limbs by the want of flexibility in their rays, and the nature of the membranes investing them, is confined to the ends of their lips, and even these in some are osseous and insensible." " Thus the external senses of Fishes give them few lively and distinct impressions. Surround- ing nature cannot affect them but in a confused manner; their pleasures are little varied, and they have no painful impressions from without but such as are produced by wounds." " Their continual need, which, except in the * Cuvier and Valenciennes, Histoirc des Poissons.