169 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. Two lobules, in which the portal venous plexus is seen. After Kiernan. a a, Interlobular veins. The appearance ofvenou3 circles formed by these veins is that which is afforded by a common lens ; when examined with' a higher power the interlobular fissure is seen to be filled by a vascular plexus, b, The lobular venous plexus. The circular and ovoid spaces seen be- tween the branches of the plexuses are occupied by portions of the biliary plexus : they are the acini of Malpighi. c. The intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule, collecting the blood from the lobu- lar venous plexus. The hepatic duct bifurcates in the transverse fissure into two branches, which enter the right and left lobes of the liver and subdivide into smaller branches, and the smaller branches accompany the divisions of the portal vein and hepatic artery through the portal canals to their ultimate distribution in the lobules. The branches of the hepatic duct, like those of the portal vein, are divisible into the vaginal, inter- lobular, and lobular ducts. The vaginal ducts pass transversely through the capsule ol'Glisson, by which they ate enve- loped in common with the portal vein and hepatic artery, and divide into numerous small branches which assist in forming the vaginal plexus. From the plexus of ducts two kinds of branches are given off, the interlobular, which run along the margins of the interlobular fissures and enter the interlobular spaces to be distributed upon the capsular surfaces of the lobules ; and the lobular, which enter the sub- stance of those lobules which form the parietes of the portal canals. In the smaller portal canals the vaginal branches and plexus are situated only on the portal side of the canal, the interlobular branches, on the side nearest the duct, passing directly into the interlobular spaces. " The transverse branches and those which arise immediately from them do not anastomose with each other, but the smaller branches sometimes appear to do so; I cannot, however," says Kiernan, " from dissection, affirm that they do, for those which appear to anastomose are exceedingly small vessels and meet each other at the spaces, hence it is diffi- cult to ascertain whether they really anastomose or enter the spaces together without anasto- The interlobular ducts ramify upon the cap- sular surface of the lobules with the branches of the portal vein and hepatic artery. Kiernan finds these ducts to communicate freely with each other, for he says, " If the left hepatic duct be injected with size or mercury, the injec- tion will return by the right duct without extra- vasation and without passing into other vessels, and the injection will be found in the inter- lobular and vaginal ducts as well as in the trunks. This communication between the two ducts does not take place like that which exists between the right and left arteries through the medium of the vaginal branches of the trans- verse fissure, the injection being found in inter- lobular branches arising from the right duct. From this experiment, which I have frequently repeated with the same result, it appears that the right and left duct anastomose with each other through the medium of the interlobular ducts. This experiment does not always suc- ceed, which probably arises from the quantity of bile contained in the ducts." The lobular ducts entering the lobule by its circumference divide and subdivide into minute branches which anastomose with each other and form a " reticulated plexus," the lobular biliary plexus (fig. 40). This plexus consti- Fig. 40. Two lobules in wliich the lobular biliary plexus is shewn After Kiernan. a a, Interlobular ducts giving off branches which form the plexus within the lobules. The central portion of the lobules is uninjected. b b, The rami- fications of the intralobular veins. With regard to this figure Kiernan observes, " No such view of the ducts as that represented in this figure can be obtained in the liver. The interlobular ducts are in the figure seen anastomosing with each other. I have never seen these anastomoses, but I have seen the anastomoses of the ducts in the left lateral ligament, and from the results of experiments re- lated in this paper, 1 believe the interlobular ducts anastomose. 1 have never injected the lobular biliary plexuses to the extent represented in the figure." tutes the principal part of the substance of the lobule, and seen through the meshes of the portal venous plexus, gives rise to the appear- ance of acini or of ccecal terminations of ducts. The ultimate terminations of the ducts have not yet been seen; they are imagined by Miiller to end in " short pannicle-like tufts closely interwoven together," and he supports his opinion by citing the circumstance of the ducts in the embryo of the fowl and larva of