OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comf. Anat.) 838 ever, only in the Chelonian Reptiles that the sternal bones present themselves in full com plete- ness, forming the broad shield or plastron that defends the ventral aspect of the body in those animals, which, being solidly connected on each side with the dorsal plate or carapax, forms a kind of box to shelter the whole body. The sternum, thus necessarily amplified to the utmost, consists of no fewer than nine dis- tinct elements, to all of which names have been applied expressive of their position rela- tive to each other. First, there is an azygos element occupying the mesial or central portion of the anterior part of the plastron, which from its situation has been named the entosternal element. This central piece is bounded anteriorly by the episternul bones, and posteriorly by another pair named the hyo- steinal, being as it were set in the centre of these lateral pieces as in a frame. The poste- rior half of the sternum consists of two pairs of elements, the larger and most anterior being designated as the hypostemal, whilst the pos- terior occupying the position of the xiphoid cartilage in the human skeleton are fitly deno- minated the xiphisternal pieces, which are united to each other and to the last-mentioned pair by strong serrated sutures, as indeed are all the elements above enumerated. In the aquatic Chelonians, the Turtles, the same elements are met with entering into the formation of the enormous sternnm, and their positions with respect to each other are pre- cisely similar ; but here, in order to lighten the skeleton, large excavations are hollowed out in the centre of the bone, so that the three posterior pairs of sternal elements do not meet in the mesian line; but in all other respects their identity is at once evident. The sternal apparatus, however, although most fre- quently it enters largely into the formation of the thorax, is stili more nearly related to the anterior extremity, with the movements of which it is invariably intimately connected, and fre- quently gives origin to the most important muscles of locomotion. The sternum can scarcely be said to exist in Fishes, with the ex- ception of a very few ( Clupca), and in these it is represented by a few azygos bones, on which the ribs abut infenorly. In the Anourous Batrachia, as the Frog and Toad, the sternum is remarkable as existing in a very complete state of developement quite independently of any other elements of the thorax, seeing that in these animals there are no ribs to be attached to it. It consists here of a chain of bones, in which most of the elements above enumerated are easily recog- nizable, placed along the mesian line of the breast, and supporting on either side the cora- coidand clavicular bones that enter into the com- position of the shoulder; the whole apparatus has been already figured in the article Amphi- bia, (Jig- 17,) where the episternal bones forming the most anterior part of the series, the hyosternal bones (e), the entosternal bone (g), to the sides of which are attached both the clavicle (c) and the coracoid (d), the hypo- sternal bones (f), and the xiphisternal elements completing the chain posteriorly, are all indi- cated. The sternum of Birds is peculiar on account of the prodigious developement of the azygos or entosternal element of which it is principally composed, a circumstance obviously intended to strengthen this part of the skeleton, and prevent the tearing asunder of the lateral por- tions of the bone by the enormous strain of the strong and massive muscles of flight, an acci- dent of which there would have been great danger had the mesial sutures that exist in the sternum of the Tortoise been here permitted. The pieces composing it are pointed out in fig. 129, vol. i. p. 282, where the following elements are delineated, viz. the entosternal (</), the hi/o- sternuls (b), the hyposternals (c), and the xiphi- sternuls (g). The sternum of Mammalia becomes once more reduced to its simplest form, consisting of a chain of osseous pieces situated along the mesian line on the anterior aspect of the thorax, which they partially assist in forming. In some races, however, as, for example, in the Mono- tremata, so closely allied to Birds in all the details of their economy, and also in Quadru- peds possessing great power of using the an- terior extremities either for flight or digging, as, for example, the Bat and the Mole, the importance of this part of the osseous frame- work becomes considerably increased, and it is developed accordingly. Frequently connected with the sternum, but by no means to be regarded as derivations from that bone, are the other important elements of this part of the skeleton already noticed, which, though entirely deficient in the human subject and in the Mammalia generally, are found in Birds and many Reptiles to be es- sential to the structure of the thorax. These are the sternal or abdominal ribs (fig. 432, m) a series of distinct bones interposed between the spinal ribs and the sides of the sternum, so as to form a complete osseous framework to the chest. In Fishes, as well as in the Batrachian and Ophidian Reptiles, these bones are abso- lutely wanting, though in the Frogs and Toads the sternum is so large. But in the Saurians, as, for instance, in the Crocodile, they form essential parts of the thoracic cavity, and aid materially the movements requisite for respira- tion. In the Crocodile these ventral ribs ex- tend indeed much further backwards than the dorsal ones that form the posterior boundaries of the thorax, being continued along the ab- domen almost as far back as the pelvis im- bedded in the abdominal muscles, the action of which they doubtless materially strengthen. In the higher Vertebrata, i.e. the Mammalia, the sternal ribs are entirely represented by the costal cartilages, and the abdominal would seem to be completely wanting; still there seems but little doubt that, even in Man, the lingering rudiments of ventral ribs are trace- able in the tendinous intersections of the recti muscles of the abdomen. In Birds the sternal ribs assume still more importance as regards their effect in strength- ening the thorax, and converting the thoracic