PERINEUM. 933 tlie operator's success in lithotomy turns upon his knowledge of the relations, the size, and the density of this organ as well as of the re- sistance of its capsule. The prostate is heart- shaped; it has been also not unaptly compared to a chesnut. Its base, directed backwards and upwards, embraces the neck of the bladder, and usually presents a notch for the entrance of the ejaculatory ducts; its apex, truncated and directed forwards and downwards, is in contact with Wilson's muscles and separated from the triangular ligament of the urethra by an interval of less than half an inch; its under surface, grooved longitudinally in the middle line, looks somewhat backwards and rests upon the rectum with the intervention of a quantity of rather dense cellular tissue, in which fat never accumulates ; its upper surface, inclining slightly forwards and less extensive than the lower, is connected to the pubis by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder; and its sides, which are rounded, are covered by the levatores ani muscles. The vesieula? seminales are re- lated to the base of the prostate gland, and the dorsal veins of the penis lie upon its upper surface, which is scarcely three-quarters of an inch distant from the pubis. The rectum, when empty, is in contact with the under surface only of the prostate, but when distended, it also encroaches upon the sides of the gland; this occurs to an extreme degree whenever the bowel presents the dilatation so commonly observed in elderly persons; in such cases the prostate appears embedded in the walls of the gut, a disposition fraught with danger to the intestine in the ordinary operation for stone. The prostate gland varies so much in size at different periods of life, and even in different individuals of the same age, that it is impossi- ble to specify its exact dimensions. The organ is small in the child; it increases greatly at puberty; in middle age its measurements are still larger, and in the decline of life they become not unfrequently excessive. In the healthy adult subject, the extreme length of the prostate gland from base to apex may be esti- mated at from an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half; its depth at the base seldom ex- ceeds one inch, whilst from side to side it measures somewhat more than an inch and a quarter. The urethra traverses the prostate from base to apex, and runs much nearer to the upper than to the lower surface of that body, so that the canal is very unequally surrounded by glandu- lar substance. At the base of the prostate the glandular substance above the urethra varies from two to four lines in depth; below the canal it is upwards of six lines deep; laterally its thickness may be estimated at about eight lines, whilst in the direction of the ordinary incision in lithotomy, viz. downwards and out- wards, from nine to twelve lines is the average measurement. Exceptional cases have been reported by Velpeau and others, in some of which no trace of glandular substance existed above the urethra, and in others little or none beneath it; the latter variety might lead to un- pleasant consequences in lithotomy. The prostate gland is enveloped by a dense • capsule continuous with the fibrous membrane derived from the posterior layer of the triangu- lar ligament of the urethra, and investing the membranous portion of that canal. This cap- sule is identified above with the anterior and lateral true ligaments of the bladder, and its strength is such as to impart great firmness to the prostate, and a power of resistance altoge- gether foreign to the glandular substance. The anatomist finds it extremely difficult to lacerate the prostate so long as the capsule retains its integrity, but a trifling force suffices to tear or to split the gland after it has been deprived of this covering. The strength of the capsule explains the difficulty experienced by lithoto- mists in dividing the prostate gland by the cutting gorget, and was doubtless in great measure the cause of those distressing accidents which so frequently resulted from the slipping of that instrument, and which have led to its disuse in latter years. The common ejacula- tory ducts traverse the prostate gland from behind forwards and upwards ; they are closely approximated to each other, and for practical purposes may be considered to occupy the middle line. It would be impossible to effect with certainty a median section of the gland in the living subject without injury to one or both of these ducts: this constitutes a strong objection to the recto-vesical operation of lithotomy, but they are out of danger in the lateral and bilateral methods. The veins in the neighbourhood of the pros- tate gland and of the neck of the bladder are remarkable for their plexiform arrangement, and are called the vesico-prostatic plexus. This plexus, receiving anteriorly the dorsal veins of the penis after their entrance into the pelvis, and communicating posteriorly with the he- morrhoidal veins, delivers its blood into the internal iliacs; it lies chiefly upon the upper and lateral surfaces of the prostate, and on the lateral and inferior aspects of the neck and neighbouring portion of the base of the blad- der. The veins which constitute this plexus are covered by a layer of the capsule of the prostate, and bound down to the bladder by a strong membrane derived from the recto-vesical lamina of the pelvic fascia. They communi- cate in the freest manner with each other, and are but moderately developed in young and healthy subjects, whilst in elderly persons and in cases of chronic disease of the bladder, as well as in calculous affections, they occasionally attain to an immense size and assume a vari- cose disposition. The hemorrhage from ves- sels so enlarged might be followed by a fatal result in lithotomy. The mouths of these veins remain permanently patent after they are di- vided; this results from the fibrous investment which binds them down, and has been supposed by the French surgeons to predispose them to phlebitis after operations, by exposing their delicate lining membrane to the irritating influ- ence of the urinary stream. An irregular artery is sometimes found along the side of the prostate gland, and has been the source of fatal hemorrhage when divided by the lithotoniist. This vessel is destined to