NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 687 cessus cerebelli ad testes, all connect neigh- bouring parts with the intrinsic matter of the mesocephale. It is plain, then, that anatomy affords abun- dant grounds for the conclusion, that the me- socephale must be regarded as a distinct centre, connected by numerous bonds of union with the other segments of the brain. If further proof of this were wanting, it would be found in the connexion of two im- portant nerves with this segment. These are the fifth and the fourth pair. The former pene- trate between the superficial fibres of the pons which spread out upon the crus cerebelli; the latter are connected with the superior surface of the mesocephale. Of THE CEREBELLUM.— (TrajEyKEfpaTu?; oTncrflto; tyY.i(^a,\^\ Fr. ceruelet; Germ. Kleuie Gehifn.) Tins remarkable portion of the ence- phalon, so called from its general resemblance to the cerebrum, of which it is, as it were, the diminutive, is situate behind the mesocephale and medulla oblongata. It is lodged in a com- partment of the cranium, the floor of which is formed by the fossae of the occipital bone, and which is separated from the cavity occupied by the cerebrum, by the horizontal process of the dura mater, previously described as the tento- rium cerebelli. This process forms a partition between the inferior surface of the posterior lobes and the superior surface of the cerebellum. The cerebellum, like the cerebrum, is at its highest point of developement in the human subject. It exists as a very distinct portion of the encephalon in all the classes of vertebrate animals, and exhibits a marked gradation of increase from Fishes, through Reptiles and Birds, up to Mammals. In Fishes and Reptiles it consists of a sin- gle lobe, overhanging the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, and closing the fourth ventricle partially like a valve. It is, in ge- neral in these classes, smooth on its surface, and exhibits no complication of structure, no subdivision into lamina;. But in the sharks a manifest increase in size and an incipient lamellar arrangement are distinctly observable, which shew that in them this organ is more highly developed than in any other fishes. In birds a similar complication of structure takes place to a much greater extent, and a lateral lobe or appendage is added on each side to the single central organ which constitutes the cerebellum of fishes and reptiles. And in the mammiferous series, the lateral lobes along with the central portion experience a progres- sive augmentation of size (proportionally to the body), and a corresponding complexity of structure up to the quadrumana and man. The best and most obvious subdivision of the human cerebellum is into the median lobe and the lateral lobes or hemispheres. The former is the fundamental and primitive portion of the organ ; the latter, although each exceeds the median lobe in size, and therefore they con- jointly form far the largest portion 'of the cerebellum, are appendages, which in man assume great physiological importance. The median lobe has likewise been called vermi- form process, the upper and lower lamina; being distinguished as the superior and inferior vermiform processes. From the tables already given it would ap- pear that the cerebrum is to the cerebellum in the proportion of 8 or 9 to 1 in the adult, and in the infant, according to Chaussier, as 16 or 18 to 1. The average weight of the cere- bellum is, according to Professor Reid's re- searches, 5 oz. 4 dr. in the male, and 4 oz. 12 dr. in the female. The cerebellum seems to keep pace, in its developement, with that of the cerebrum. It attains its greatest size, both in male and fe- male, at the same age as the cerebrum. At the most advanced ages, however, it seems to diminish with greater rapidity than that organ. Some variety appears to occur as regards the relative developement of cerebellum to cere- brum in the adult. Chaussier remarks that he had in some instances found the cerebellum equal to a seventh or a sixth part of the weight of the cerebrum, but rarely the eleventh or twelfth. There do not appear to be any good grounds for the assertion that the cerebellum is more developed in proportion to the brain in the female than in the male. Professor Reid's extensive series of researches show, beyond all question, that it maintains the same propor- tionate bulk in both sexes. It has also been asserted that castration, or disease of the genital organs, such as would destroy the generative instinct, causes wasting of the cerebellum. If both testicles be re- moved, the whole cerebellum, it is said, dege- nerates; if only one, the hemisphere of the opposite side is affected. The most complete refutation of this assertion is afforded by M. Leuret's series of observations of the brains of geldings and entire horses. These researches, indeed, shew that in stallions the cerebellum is proportionally smaller than in mares or geldings, and that in geldings it is larger than in mares. It is very evident from them that mutilation of the sexual organs does not cause degeneration of the cerebellum. The shape of the cerebellum is that of " an ellipsoid flattened from above downwards."* Its principal diameter, which is transverse, is from three-and-a-half to four inches in length ; the antero-posterior diameter is from two in- ches to two inches and a half; the anterior part is about two inches in thickness; whilst near its posterior edge it does not measure above half an inch. Atitsanterioredge the cerebellum is notched, and receives fibres by which it is connected to the cerebrum and mesocephale. This notch is of considerable transverse extent, and is semi- lunar in shape. The greater portion of the posterior part of the mesocephale corresponds to it. By Reil this is called the semilunar fis- sure. In it we find several parts which the anatomist should study; namely,on the highest plane, the processus cerebelli ad testes, sepa- * Cruvcilhicr.