46 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT. sixth of an inch, at the outer margin or thickest part. They are both composed of concentric fibres, the extremities of which are fixed to the central parts of the head of tiie tibia, before and behind the crucial ligaments, with whose fibres they intermingle; the anterior extremities are usually joined together by a transverse liga- ment, but this is sometimes wanting. The ligamentum patella, of vast importance in the actions of the knee-joint, is yet the most distant from its articular surfaces ; it extends, broad and flat, from the lower somewhat point- ed portion of the patella to the inferior part of the tubercle of the tibia, being in the adult about two inches in length. It forms a strong inelastic but inflexible bond of union of the patella with the tibia, and may with propriety be looked upon as a continuation of the ex- tensor tendons which are inserted into the upper and lateral margins of the former bone; some fibres indeed pass over Us anterior sur- face, but it is only through this bone and its ligament that the extensor muscles can act upon the leg. The patella is thus seen to be placed in a situation analogous to that of the sesamoid bones, in the tendons which play over bony surfaces, in the hands and feet. The ligament of the patella is covered anteriorly by dense integument, and the fascia of the leg: posteriorly a cushion of fat is interposed be- tween it and the joint at the upper part, while below it is separated from the bone by a bursa, whose situation was pointed out in the descrip- tion of the tibia. (See fig. Ill, b, vol. i. p. 252.) More closely applied to the joint are the lateral ligaments, the posterior and the crucial liga* ments; and portions of the synovial capsule which are described by some anatomists as alar and mucous ligaments. The lateral ligaments have a vertical direction at each side of the knee, and are placed nearer to the posterior than the ante- rior boundary of the joint; the upper attach- ment is in fact to the tuberosity at the centre of the smaller curve which the articular sur- faces of the condyles form at their back part. The internal lateral ligament descends from the tuberosity of the internal condyle of the os femoris to beneath the head of the tibia; it is nearly three inches in length, of a flattened form, narrow at its commencement, but en- larging considerably opposite the joint, to the synovial membrane of which as well as to the internal semilunar cartilage it adheres; infe- riorly it again contracts in width. Its upper attachment is covered by the fascia lata; below, it is inserted into the shaft of the tibia just beneath the head of the bone, and anterior to its inner angle; and the tendons of the sarto- rius, gracilis, and semitendinosus cross over it. The external lateral ligament (lig. laterale externum) arises from the tuberosity on the external condyle of the femur, and descends, inclining backwards, partly covered by the tendon of the biceps, to be inserted with it into the head of the fibula ; the attachment of its upper extremity is immediately above the origin of the popliteus tendon, which it crosses in its descent, so that this tendon enveloped by its synovial sheath is situated between the liga- ment and the joint. The deviation of this ligament from the perpendicular direction is perceived most distinctly in the state of exten- sion ; when the joint is flexed, the upper at- tachment of the ligament is brought more into the perpendicular over its fibular attachment, the ligament is relaxed and assumes the per- pendicular direction ; hence, in the flexed con- dition of the joint, the external condyle of the femur, or the tibia on it, admits of a more free motion. This ligament is contrasted by its less length and more rounded form with the internal lateral, and is composed like it of shining tendinous fibres ; a still shorter set of fibres sometimes passes more posteriorly from the condyle to the head of the fibula, or from the sheath of the popliteus tendon, and has been called the short external lateral liga- ment. The posterior ligament (lig- posticum Win- slow/i) is a portion of the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle which is given off near its insertion at the posterior and inner margin of the head of the tibia; the portion under con- sideration forms a flat and dense fascia which passes upwards and outwards to the external condyle, where it becomes adherent to the sy- novial capsule and minglingwith the tendinous origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius : posterior to it lie the popliteal vessels, and in front of it there is a quantity of firm granulated fat, into which some of its fibres penetrate. When the posterior ligament and the fat just spoken of are removed, and the joint is ex- tended, the two crucial ligaments (ligamenta cruciata*) are brought into view ; they may be seen on the anterior aspect by dissecting down the patella from the fore part of the joint, and putting it in a state of flexion ; in the former view, the posterior crucial ligament is best seen; in the latter, the anterior: the upper extremities of both are fixed in the fossa be- tween the condyles of the os femoris; their lower extremities are attached to the head of the tibia between the two articular surfaces. The anterior crucial ligament passes from the inner and back part of the outer condyle downwards and forwards to the depression in frontof the spine of the tibia, where some portion becomes continuous with the anterior extre- mity of the internal semilunar cartilage. The posterior extends from the fore and outer part of the internal condyle downwards and back- wards to the notch at the posterior margin of the head of the tibia, where it becomes like- wise attached to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar cartilage. The crucial liga- ments thus derive their name from decussating one another like the strokes of the letter X; the crossing is, however, considerably above their centre: the anterior passes to the outer side of the posterior. The synovial capsule^ entirely surrounds the * [It is useful to bear in mind that these ligaments are called anterior and posterior with reference to their insertions into the tibia, the one in front of, the other behind, the spine of that bone.—Ed.~\ t [Weber recommends as a good way of demon- strating the fall extent and connexions of the