PERINEUM. 930 and the crus penis, posteriorly by the trans- versa perinsi, which constitutes the base of the triangle, whilst the apex is in front where the crus penis and the urethra unite. These spaces are small in the natural condition, but when carefully dissected they become very distinct; the superficial perineal vessels and nerves traverse them from base to apex ; by separating the accelerator urinae from the erector penis the anatomist obtains a view of the triangular ligament of the urethra between these muscles, and he may also form some estimate of its thickness and strength by the touch. When the muscles and other structures be- longing to the same layer of parts have been removed, the crura penis along the sides of the region, the urethra in the centre, and the triangular ligament of the urethra stretching across the arch of the pubis, are brought fairly into view; still further back, in the middle line, the recto-urethral triangular space may be partially seen, and also some fibres of the levator ani muscle descending to their insertion from behind the triangular ligament. It is unnecessary in this article to describe the crura penis minutely. Each crus adheres to the rami of the ischium and pubis, becoming gradually thicker and larger as it approaches the symphysis, and at length the two crura unite to form the body of the penis; the lateral margins of the triangular ligament of the ure- thra, and the great pudic vessels and nerves in the last part of their course, are overlapped by the crura as they ascend. The anatomy of the urethra in respect to catheterism has received the fullest considera- tion already, but the position of the bulb may be now again studied with advantage. This body lies in front of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and projects backwards and downwards towards the rectum; it is situated about one inch from the anus, and scarcely more than half that distance from the anterior wall of the intestine; yet the narrow interval between the bulb and the rectum constitutes a portion of the recto-urethral triangular space, through which the early incisions in the bila- teral operation of lithotomy are carried. The bulb is retained in its position by a thin expan- sion derived from the anterior layer of the tri- angular ligament, and continuous with the membrane which invests the corpus spongio- sum urethra?. The triangular ligament of the urethra (" the deep perineal fascia" of some anatomists, "the perineal ligament" of M. Carcassone, "the middle perineal aponeurosis " of M. Blandin) presents itself next for examination. To expose the superficial surface of this ligament it is only further necessary to detach the crura penis from the bones and to free the bulb from its connections, but to exhibit the deeper surface satisfactorily the dissection must be conducted from within the pelvis. The triangular liga- ment of the urethra extends from the rami of the ischium and pubis at one side to the cor- responding edges of bone on the other; its superficial surface, directed forwards and down- wards, is in contact (so long as the parts remain in situ) with the crura penis, the bulb of the urethra, and the muscles already specified ; its posterior surface, directed upwards and back- wards, is related to the prostate gland, the membranous portion of the urethra, Wilson's muscles, and the levatores ani; its base, directed downwards and backwards towards the rectum, gives attachment to the deep process of the superficial perineal fascia, and presents a double curvature, being prolonged in the middle line into a peak, which adheres to the central tendinous point of the perineum ; its apex corresponds to the lower extremity of the sym- physis pubis, and includes the sub-pubic liga- ment between its laminae, whilst its lateral mar- gins adliere firmly to the rami of the ischium and pubis, and are distinctly continuous with the obturator fascia on either side. The opening which affords a passage to the urethra is si- tuated about half an inch or rather less above the base of this ligament, and nearly one inch beneath the symphysis pubis, whilst that which tiansmits the dorsal veins of the penis is placed immediately below the sub-pubic ligament. The triangular ligament possesses uncommon strength ; it serves to fix and to strengthen the urethra and to fill up the arch of the pubis, completing the walls of the pelvis where the bones are deficient, and thus supporting power- fully the abdominal and pelvic viscera. It con- stitutes a perfect partition between the super- ficial and the deep structures in the perineum, dividing the genito-urinary portion of this re- gion into two distinct compartments ; and it consists of two lamina? inseparably united to each other in some places, not so in others, for Cowper's glands, the sub-pubic ligament, the arteries of the bulb, the internal pudic vessels in a part of their course, and the so- called muscles of Guthrie, are developed between its layers. Cowper's glands may be displayed by the careful removal of the superficial layer of the triangular ligament; they are two small greyish bodies, each resembling a pea in shape and di- mensions, and placed one on either side be- hind and above the bulb, beneath the mem- branous portion of the urethra, and between the lamina? of the triangular ligament. Their ducts, which open into the urethra in front of the bulb, have been already described. Guthrie's muscles, two in number, are situ- ated (according to their discoverer) between the layers of the triangular ligament; each of them, as described by him, arises narrow and tendi- nous from the descending ramus of the pubis near its junction with the ischium, and becom- ing fleshy it passes tranversely inwards, and soon divides into two fasciculi, of which one spreads out on the upper surface and the other on the lower surface of the membranous portion of the urethra. In this manner the muscles from opposite sides meet in a tendinous raphe on the middle line of the urethra both above and below, the superior raphe being prolonged from the prostate gland to the junction of the crura penis, and the inferior raphe extending from the prostate to the bulb. Viewed either from above or from below, these muscles are