IRRITABILITY. 34 irritability; whilst, on the other hand, he makes statements which appear to me at va- riance with this very opinion. In the Ana- tomie Comparee (tome i. p. 49,) this cele- brated writer observes, " Les experiences modernes ont montre qu'un des principaux usages de la respiration est de ranimer la force musculaire, en rendant a la fibre son irrita- bilite epuisee." See also tome iv. p. 301. Similar observations are made in M. Cuvier's more recent work, the Regne Animal: " C'est de la respiration que les fibres musculaires tirent I'energie de leur irritabilite," (tome i. p. 57, 2me edit.) " C'est la respiration qui donne au sang sa chaleur, et a la fibre la sus- ceptibilite pour l'irritation nerveuse," (tome ii. p. 1.) On the other hand, speaking of the moUusca, (tome iii. p. 3,) M. Cuvier observes of those animals of low respiration, " L'irri- tabilite est extreme dans la plupart." The same term is, in fact, used in two distinct senses, in these paragraphs. No further proof can be necessary of the extreme vagueness and incorrectness of the prevailing notions and expressions of physio- logists in regard to this subject. All this will appear still more extraordinary, when the law, that the quantity of respiration and the degree of the irritability are, in fact, inverse throughout all the series, stages, and states of animated being, is clearly established. It is well known that the irritability of the heart and of the muscular fibre in general is greater in the mammalia than in birds, and in reptiles and amphibia than in the mammalia, whether we judge of it by the force and dura- tion of the beat of the heart, exposed to the stimulus of the atmospheric air, or by the con- tractions of the other parts of the muscular system. Now this is precisely the order of the quantity of respiration in these animals, as ascertained by the pneumatomer, inverted. It is essential, in accurately determining the ques- tion of the irritability of the muscular fibre, to compare animals of the same class inter se; birds and the mammalia, reptiles and amphibia, fishes, the moUusca, &c. must be compared with each other, both generically and specifi- cally. It is especially necessary to compare the warm-blooded, the cold-blooded, the air- breathers, and the water-breathers, in this man- ner. However the different classes may differ from each other, there are differences in some of the species of the same class, and especially that of fishes, scarcely less remarkable. Great differences in the duration of the beat of the heart are observed in foetal, early, and adult states of the higher animals; this dura- tion being greater in the first, and least in the last of these conditions. The order of the quantity of respiration is inverse. The law of the irritability being inversely as the respiration, obtains even in the two sides of the heart itself, in the higher classes of animals. The beat of the heart removed from the body does not cease at the same time in the wall of all its cavities, or of its two sides: but, as Harvey observes, " primus desinit pulsare sinister ventriculus ; deinde ejus auricula; de- mum dexter ventriculus ; ultimo (quod etiam notavit Galenus) reliquis omnibus cessantibus et mortuis, pulsat usque dextra auricula."* Even in this case the irritability is greatest in the part in which the respiration is least. It was shown by Hook, in the early days of the Royal Society,f that if, the respiration being suspended, an animal appeared to be dying, the beat of the heart and the signs of life were speedily restored, on performing arti- ficial respiration, or even by forcing air through the trachea, bronchia, and pulmonary air-cells and allowing it to escape through incisions made through the pleura. It was, in the next place, clearly shown by Goodwyn, in one of the most beautiful spe- cimens of physiological inquiry in any lan- guage,;]; that in suspended respiration, it is the left side of the heart which first ceases to contract, the right side still continuing its function for several minutes, until the supply of blood may be supposed to fail. The facts detailed by Harvey had shown that the left side of the heart was endued with less irritability than the right; the experiment of Hook, that respiration restored the action of the heart, if it had previously ceased; that of Goodwyn, that this cessation and restoration of functions were observed in the left side of the heart. It was obvious, on the other hand, that the respiration belongs, as it were, to the left side of the heart. It appears plainly deducible from these facts, that in circumstances and structures the most similar, the respiration is accurately inversely as the irritability. For the sake of a comparison with the hy- bernating animal, the object of which will be explained hereafter, I thought it right to repeat this experiment. Before I proceed to detail the result, I may just describe an easy method of performing that part of it which consists of artificial respi- ration. A quill is firmly fixed in the divided trachea : a small hole is then cut into that part of the quill which is external; Read's syringe is then adapted to the other end of the quill. At each motion of the piston downwards, the lungs are distended; whilst the piston is raised, the air escapes through the opening in the quill, producing expiration. The experiment, there- fore, only requires the common action of the syringe. The experiment itself answered my expecta- tion. During the cessation of respiration, the left ventricle ceased to beat, the right ventricle retaining its function ; on renewing its respira- tion, the left ventricle resumed its beat. It appears from this experiment, that from want of a degree of irritability equal to that of the right ventricle, and its own proper stimulus of arterial blood, the left ventricle ceased its con- tractions. The function of the right ventricle * Opera Omnia, Collegio Medicorum Londinensi edita, 1766, p. 28. t Phil. Trans, vol. ii. i On the Connexion of Life with Respiration : London, 1788, p. 72, 82 note.