725 NOSE. the olfactory nerves run from above downwards, and those in which the naso-palatine nerves lie are directed forwards ; at its lower margin also is a particular groove in which a large blood- vessel runs. The outer surface is concave and smoother than the inner, and forms the inner boundary of the middle meatus of the nose. On the outer wall of this meatus, which is a much larger channel than the superior one, ex- tending through nearly the whole length of the outer wall of the nasal fossae, there are pre- sented from before backwards, after removing the turbinated bone,—1. a part of the ascend- ing process of the upper jaw-bone; 2. part of the inner surface of the lachrymal bone ; 3. the walls of some of the anterior ethmoidal cells; 4. the inf'undibulum, along, narrow, and slightly curved passage, leading obliquely upwards and forwards into the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them into the frontal sinuses; 5. the entrance into the antrum, a large aperture of uncertain size and form ; and, lastly, a flat surface of the vertical plate of the palate bone. Below the middle meatus is the inferior turbinated bone, the largest of the three, and usually described as a separate bone, because it is not so soon united to the adjacent bones. It is very uncertain in form and size; its depth especially varies; so that its lower border some- times nearly touches the floor of the nasal ca- vity, and sometimes is half an inch above it; sometimes, also, it is so much curled outwards that it nearly forms a canal between its outer border and the outer wall. On the whole, however, this turbinated bone presents the same general characters as the others. Its upper margin is fixed to a prominent ridge along nearly the whole length of the outer wall of the nasal fossae ; its lower margin is free, and its outer surface forms the inner boundary of the inferior meatus of the nose, of which the outer boundary is formed by the ascending plates of the superior maxillary (k) and palate bones. At the anterior part of this meatus is the inferior orifice of the nasal canal, a passage flattened at its sides, larger at its extremities than in the middle, and passing, with a slight anterior curve, upwards, forwards, and a little outwards to the inner angle of the orbit. It lodges the nasal duct. At the level of this meatus also, behind the edge of the internal pterygoid plate, and about midway between the floor of the nose and the end of the inferior turbinated bone, is the opening of the Eusta- chian tube ; but nothing of this is seen in the skeleton. The inner wall of each cavity of the nose is formed by the septum, a median partition composed of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and the vomer, whose edges cor- respond to ridges formed at the median sutures of the nasal, superior maxillary, and palate bones, and on the inferior surfaces of the frontal and sphenoid bones. The septum is not commonly quite vertical: it may lean to either side, or may be curved slightly in both directions, or may be convex on both sides and have a cavity in its interior. Each of its sides exhibits at the upper and back part the grooves of some of the olfactory nerves, becoming more shallow as they descend ; and in various parts it is slightly marked by the passage of bloodvessels and other nerves. Thus, the bones which form the proper cavities of the nose are fourteen ; viz.—the two nasal, two superior maxillary, two palatine, the two inferior, and two sphenoidal turbinated, bones,the frontal,ethmoid,sphenoid, and vomer. And, with the space which these enclose, many adjacent cavities communicate; viz.—1. The frontal sinuses, which open through the ante- rior ethmoid cells and infundibulum into the middle meatus. 2. The anterior ethmoid cells, which open by the same canal or by separate apertures, into the same meatus. 3. The pos- terior ethmoidal cells, which open into the superior meatus. 4. The sphenoidal sinuses, which open through the posterior part of the roof of the nose behind the same meatus : and 5. The antrum, which opens into the middle meatus. The osseous parts hitherto described form the skeleton of the interior of the nose, but con- tribute little to the formation of its external prominent part. Of this part the osseous ske- leton is composed of the two nasal bones, and the nasal or ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones, which together form the bridge of the nose and a small portion of its lateral walls. Each nasal bone is elongated, quadri- lateral, and narrower above than below. Its anterior surface is convex from side to side, and either presents a double curve from above down- wards, or is slightly concave in its whole length. The two together form a prominent arch above and in front of the anterior aperture of the nose : their surface is continued outwards and down- wards over the ascending processes of the supe- rior maxillary bones, is smooth, and is marked only by small apertures giving passage to blood- vessels and nerves. The internal edges of the nasal bones are united in the median line by a straight suture, the continuation of the sagittal suture. In front their union is smooth; but behind and above, where the bones are much thicker than they are below, a deep ridge or crest is formed which is received into that part of the septum of the nose which is formed by the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and the vertical plate of the ethmoid. Sometimes, however, these margins, instead of forming a ridge, are separate, and en- close a groove in which the edge of the septum is received. The superior thick borders of the nasal bones articulate by a serrated suture with the notch and the nasal spine of the frontal bone ; and this suture, which forms part of the great transverse suture, is continued into that uniting the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones with the internal angular pro- cesses of the frontal. The outer and largest margin of the nasal bone articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and is slightly overlapped by its sharp edge. The lower free margin is sharp and uneven. The median suture of the nasal bones, and the short portion of the sagittal suture imme- diately above it, are the parts of the median