496 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. lying underneath it; and am come to the con- clusion that the most complicated diversities that are met with, admit, when studied in this manner, of being explained and reconciled to a common type of structure. Peculiarities of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands. Of the skin.—This is chiefly peculiar in its epithelial element and its submucous areolar tissue. The epidermis is composed of a vast number of superimposed lamina of scales, which, in the earlier stages of their develope- ment, and especially in certain races of man- kind, contain minute pigment granules in their interior. The pigment disappears more or less completely as the particles attain the surface. It is continued for some distance down the hair follicles and sweat-ducts, and thus serves to mark the continuity of these parts with the general surface. Hairs, nails, hoofs, and other simi- lar appendages are all composed of modified epithelial particles, and are nearly peculiar to the skin. The sebaceous and perspiratory glands, and the spiral ducts of the latter travers- ing the epidermis, are also among the most characteristic features of this part of the mucous system. The papillae of the skin have their counterpart in the villi of the mucous mem- branes ; the cutis vera, as it is called, has also its analogue in the submucous areolar tissue, but it is so enormously developed that the re- semblance has escaped the notice of anatomists. Its characters have been already briefly de- scribed. It is a striking fact that the cutis, like the submucous areolar tissue, contains no fat, even in the most corpulent subjects. I have repeatedly made this remark. The cutis differs in this respect from the subcutaneous fascia, which is therefore, perhaps, to be regarded as less allied to the submucous areolar tissue. Of the mucous membranes—These hold an intermediate place between the skin and the true glands. They blend insensibly with the former at the different orifices of the body, and may, under favourable conditions, become so modified as to assume the appearance of skin. The change then wrought is nothing more, however, than an increased deposit of epithelial scales, with an absence of the natural moisture; and it may be doubted whether a transforma- tion of this kind could occur in a mucous membrane of which the epithelium was not of the scaly variety. On the other hand certain parts of the membranes usually termed mu- cous are nothing less than real glands arranged in a membranous form. The mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, the vagina and vaginal surface of the uterus, are the parts whose lining membrane most nearly resembles the skin. Their most remarkable feature is the thickness of their covering of epithelial scales, provided for their protection against foreign contact and pressure, and in connection with this the existence of numerous glands opening upon them for the lubrication of their surface. Many of these glands correspond with the sweat-glands of the skin in being similarly scattered under the surface. Such are the buccal and all the small glands allied to them, which, in particular, resemble the largely deve- loped sweat-glands of the axilla. The only difference between them is in the mode of in- volution of the secreting membrane, which in the former is cellulated, in the latter tubular. These portions of the mucous membranes also approach the skin by the denseness of their submucous areolar tissue. In the pharynx it is only that part of the lining membrane below the posterior arches of the palate, or that exposed to friction during deglutition, that has the dermoid characters now described : all above is more delicate, is clothed with ciliated epithelial prisms, and be- longs physiologically to the nasal or respiiatory tract. The lower or buccal surface of the soft palate differs in a similar way from the upper. The lining membrane of the Eustachian tubes and tympana is very delicate, none of the elementary tissues predominating. The epithelium is in a single layer of prisms clothed with cilia. The submucous areolar tissue is in very small quantity, and the vascular network consists of little more than a simple plane ex- pansion. In the nose, the epithelium, accord- ing to Henle, is scaly on the septum and on the aloe for some way within the nostrils. Here also there are hairs—an advance towards the characters of the skin : beyond this it is every- where ciliated, even within the bony sinuses. The membrane covering these sinuses is of extreme tenuity, and presents the elementary tissues all in a simple form. That covering the pendulous parts of the spongy bones, on the contrary, has long been noted for its great thickness—a character due to neither of the elements of the mucous tissue itself, but to the extraordinary size of the submucous vessels. Both arteries and veins are large, but especially the latter, which here form a plexus imme- diately beneath the surface, and not separated from it by any considerable quantity of dense areolar tissue. Hence the facility with which these vessels give way externally when dis- tended with blood. The lining of the nose has been sometimes called a Jibro-mucous mem- brane, from its close connection with the pe- riosteum. The periosteum in the sinuses is extremely delicate, in consequence of the te- nuity of the bony laminae it invests; and it would perhaps be impossible to separate it there from the submucous areolar tissue. The globe and cornea are covered with scaly epithe- lium, of which the particles are smaller towards the folds of the eyelids,* where they gradually become prismatic, and along the tarsal borders clothed with cilia, so small as to be only recog- nizable a short time after death. The conjunc- tiva of the lower lid is very minutely villous. At the pharyngeal orifice of the glottis, the epithelium becomes ciliated and continues so along the trachea and bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells, but, according to my own observations, the cilia there cease, and the epithelium changes its character to a remark- able variety of the glandular form. In the air- * Henle, loc. cit.