74 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. salient internal border of the articular pulley of the femur, which the patella has abandoned. This last bone forms in front of the external border of the pulley a very remarkable tumour, upon which the finger may easily distinguish the external border of the patella. We can also easily recognize through the skin and the capsular ligament the posterior articular surface of the patella, which has passed beyond the edge of the trochlea of the femur. " In the course of a long practice," says Boyer, " I have met with but one case of dis- location of the patella," (and this, it appears, was an incomplete luxation.) " A young man, set. 16 to 18, very tall, fell, running along a corridor. The internal part of the knee in passing struck violently against the corner of a trunk, which produced an incomplete luxation of the patella outwards. The surgeon in ordi- nary of the family was called; but whether it was that he did not recognize the luxation or that he did not consider he could reduce it, he did not wish to undertake it without having the assistance of Sabatier. This celebrated professor was at first uncertain as to the species of dislocation which the patella had suffered; but having carefully examined it and reflected on the phenomena the accident presented, he recognized the true nature of the case. He then attempted the reduction of the luxation, but failed in replacing the bone." When Boyer arrived, he states that the pa- tient was lying on his bed, the limb being ex- tended and raised by pillows. The ordinary form of the knee was altered; the patella formed a tumour, which was sensible on the front of the external border of the articular pulley of the femur; in front of the internal border of the same pulley there was a depression, in the bot- tom of which could be perceived with the finger the same border of this pulley. The direction of the patella was changed in such a manner that its anterior surface was inclined inwards, and its external border forwards; finally, the external articular facet of the pa- tella could be felt by the touch through the in- teguments which covered it. By these signs it was easy to recognize the incomplete luxation outwards. Luxation of the patella on its edge.—Some very eminent surgeons have doubted the possi- bility of such an occurrence as a dislocation of the patella on its edge. " Some," says Boyer, " have imagined that the patella could be luxated turning half round on its vertical or long axis so as to rest on one of its edges on the articular trochlea of the femur. We cannot conceive," he proceeds, " how the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg and the ligament of the patella could lend themselves to such a rotation of the bone on its long axis; much less can we understand how these parts can admit of a total reversion of the bone, as authors pre- tend to have observed." Notwithstanding these observations, it seems fully proyed, that the patella can really be dislocated on its edge, and if we once admit the possibility of the partial rotation of the bone on its long axis, so as to constitute what is called a dislocation of the patella on its edge, we can imagine that a more complete rotation of the bone on its long axis might happen, constituting the complete rever- sion of the position of the surfaces and edges of this bone spoken of by some writers. It does not appear that Sir A. Cooper has seen the dislocation of the patella on its edge, but he states that he was informed by Mr. Willing, formerly of Hastings, that he was called to a case in which the patella was dislo- cated on its edge. The nature of the accident was very obvious, as the edge of the bone forced up the integuments to a considerable height between the condyles on the fore part of the joint. Mr. Willing reduced the dislocation, but with considerable difficulty, by pressing the edges of the bone in opposite directions. The following case of dislocation of the patella on one of its edges occurred lately in the prac- tice of Mr. Pentland, surgeon to the Drogheda Infirmary, and is very interesting and important, coming as it does from an acute and experi- enced observer. J. M'Greene, ret. 25, of middle stature, was struggling to get down a strong man in play. He succeeded so far as to get him on his knees, when the fallen man took hold of both his legs with his arms closely embraced round them, and when M'Greene was struggling to disengage himself, he heard and felt his right knee give a loud snap. This was attended with the most excruciating pain, and he fell to the ground to the left side; he felt that he had lost all power over the right leg. He was carried to bed, and Mr. Pentland saw him in a few minutes after the accident. The knee was in a flexed state, presenting a most extraor- dinary appearance, but which was readily seen to proceed from the patella having been dislo- cated on its edge. Mr. Pentland stated that he had some difficulty in ascertaining which side was turned out, but he soon concluded that it was the under or articular surface. The man could not move the limb at all, "and never," says Mr. Pentland, " did I witness more dread- ful suffering. You would suppose," he adds, " that the patella would force out through the integuments." After repeated attempts he at length succeeded in getting it into its place; the reduction was attended with a loud noise, and during the operation the man seemed to suffer frightful torture. Immediately on the reduction, all pain ceased, and in a very short time he recovered the perfect use of the limb. A case of dislocation of the patella on its edge is recorded by Dr. Watson in the New York Journal of Medicine and Surgery, October, 1839. He calls the accident a dislo- cation of the patella on its axis, and says, " in the case I have described, the leg could be slightly flexed ; no part of the pulley except its elevated border at the condyles of the femur could be felt. The patella was drawn upwards, and twisted nearly at right angles with its proper position, so that its anterior face was directed inwards, and its outer edge was thrown com- pletely forwards, forming an uneven and very prominent line beneath the skin in front of the joint. The reduction of the bone to its normal position was not effected without difficulty."