PENIS. runs forwards by the side of the septum pec- tiniforme, distributing many branches in its course, which ramify in the parietes of the venous canals. The arteria dorsalis penis may be regarded as the continuation of the internal pudic, after the latter has given off the arteria corporis cavernosi. It commences opposite the junction of the crura penis, and piercing the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, ascends to the groove upon the dorsum penis. In this groove it runs forwards to the base of the glans, where it divides into several branches, which enter the substance of that body and are distri- buted to its structure. The arteria dorsalis is separated from its fellow by the dorsal vein, and gives off numerous branches in its course to the fibrous structure of the penis and inte- gument. The veins of the penis correspond with the arteries which they accompany in their efferent course. The vena corporis bulbosi and vena corporis cavernosi, issuing respectively from the bulb arid crura penis, take the course of the internal pudic artery, and constitute the internal pudic veins. At the root of the penis these veins communicate with the dorsal vein. The dorsal vein commences by numerous large branches, the chief of which issue from the base of the glans beneath the corona, and form by their communications a considerable plexus on the anterior part of the corpus caver- nosum, the others being the veins of the prepuce and integument. The union of these veins constitutes two trunks of equal size, which, after running side by side for a short distance, unite and form the dorsal vein. The dorsal vein in its course towards the root of the penis passes beneath the aponeurosis of the erectores muscles, together with the attachment of the suspensory ligament, and after piercing the deep perineal fascia, divides into several brandies which join the prostatic and vesical plexus. It receives in its course several large branches from the corpus spongiosum, which curve around the corpus cavernosum in order to reach it, and communicates at the root of the organ with the deep veins of the penis. The dorsal vein is situated in the middle line of the groove of the dorsum penis, having its corresponding artery at either side, and being covered in by the fascia penis and conjoined aponeurosis of the erectores penis muscles. It is this relation to the fascia penis and aponeurosis of the erectores that enables the latter to compress the vein forcibly against the dense fibrous coat of the corpus cavernosum, and thus intercept the current of venous blood. The question of the ultimate arrangement of the bloodvessels in the substance of the penis leads to enquiry into the nature of erec- tile tissue, a subject to which a separate article has been devoted in the earlier pages of this work, and to which I must now refer my reader. From my own investigations into the structure of this tissue in the corpus caverno- sum and corpus spongiosum, I have come to the conclusion that the arteries ramify and ter- minate in capillaries as in other parts of the body, and that these latter very speedily be- come dilated veins. In the distribution of the veins the only peculiarity of this tissue exists ; these by their tortuous windings form an in- extricable plexus, which filis the whole area of the fibrous tunics of the corpus cavernosum and spongiosum, and constitutes their com- ponent substance. In this plexiform aggre- gation of veins, the walls of the vessels so closely approach as to leave between them only so much connecting tissue as serves for the ramification of the arteries and nerves of the organ, and for the passage of the fibrous trabecular and fibres of the contractile tissue. It follows from this arrangement that the area? of the veins bear a much greater proportion to the bulk of the tissue than do the septa between them, and, consequently, that if a section of the corpus cavernosum be made, its parenchyma will have the appearance of a cellular net- work, an appearance that is rendered much more striking when the penis has been inflated and dried. It is obviously this appearance of the parenchyma of the corpus cavernosum that has gained for it the character of being composed of cells, and in truth, as far as the plane of the section is concerned, the portions of venous canals which open on the surface have all the attributes of divided cells. Ac- cording to the position of the veins at the point of section, the cell in one spot is shallow and small, in another it is lengthened, either in the longitudinal or in the transverse direction of the axis of the corpus cavernosum, and in a third, again, the apparent cell is irregular in form, from the conjunction at that point of two or more veins. If, in the next place, we turn our attention to the septa of the apparent cells, we shall meet with spots in which from the close assemblage of the veins the septum has the appearance of a star giving off a number of thin lines in a radiated direction to form partitions between three, four, or five veins which meet at that point. Now let us suppose that this observation is being made on the parenchyma of the corpus cavernosum, the arteries of which have been previously injected with fine injection. Where do we look for the injected arteries ? Obviously in the septa, and especially at that thicker portion of the septum where several veins lie in contact. And what, we may ask, is the probable appearance of the arteries in that star-like point of septum which I have described above ? I can answer this question, from repeated observation. It is that of a short trunk giving off two, three, or four small and short terminal branches, which diverge in an oblique direction from the ex- tremity of the small trunk, and terminate abruptly at the cut margin of the septum. I have seen the appearances here described many times, sometimes better, sometimes less dis- tinct, and more frequently as a bifid division than another, and these I apprehend are the arteria helicina of Miiller. Besides the pre- ceding, the special characters of the arteria; helicinae are their projection in the form of a tuft into a venous canal, and the curved, swollen, and conical form of the small branches