1003 PISCES. turgidly filled with a transparent fluid; the membranous vestibule, however, does not ad- here to the walls of the capsule except at the orifices leading into the cranium. The mem- branous vestibule has its cavity divided into several compartments by folds projecting into its interior, and receives the auditory nerve, which being changed into a pulpy mass spreads out over its walls. In the Petromyzonidae therefore three important parts of the auditory appa- ratus, which are met with in the ear of all other Fishes, are wanting, viz. the sac of the otolithe, the otolithe itself, and the semicircular canals, ex- cept indeed rudiments of the latter may be represented by two curved folds of the membrane of the vestibule, which are joined superiorly to a similar fold, an arrangement which is met with both in the river and sea-lamprey. The auditory nerve is derived immediately from the brain. From the above description it would appear that in the Lampreys there are two modes whereby sonorous vibrations may be commu- nicated to the vestibule, one through the car- tilaginous capsule of the ear, the other through the cranium, which communicating tremors impressed upon it from without to the fluid which is contained in its cavity, the vibration reaches the tense membrane that closes the large fenestra leading to the vestibule, and thus affects the membranous vestibular sac itself. In a second group Weber includes those forms of the ear which have no cartilaginous or osse- ous vestibule separate from the cranial cavity. This kind of ear exists in by far the greater number of Fishes, being met with in all the truly osseous and branchiostegous races as well as in some Chondropterygians; in none of which is the membranous labyrinth en- closed in a bony or cartilaginous envelope, the internal ear being contained in the cavity of the skull itself near the posterior part of the cerebrum, with which, in fact, it is for the most part in apposition; for in these Fishes the cranium being very large and having only a small part of its cavity occupied by the brain itself, performs the office of an osseous laby- rinth, not only by furnishing a receptacle to the internal ear in which every part necessary to the performance of its functions may be fitly suspended, but is filled with fluid with which the membranous labyrinth is every where sur- rounded, a provision not less necessary to the sense of hearing than is the fluid contained in the interior of the vestibule and semicircular canals. In all such Fishes, therefore, the auditory apparatus, consisting of a membra- nous vestibule and semicircular canals, is lodged on each side in cavities excavated in the base of the cranium and bounded by the temporal and lateral parts of the occipital bones. The internal ear itself (jig. 528) is composed of the following parts: 1st. The membranous vestibule (fig. 525, i). 2d. The sac of the The membranous vestibule is an elongated smooth sacculus of very various form in diffe- rent Fishes. Its parietes consist of a pellucid membrane, and its outer surface is connected by loose cellular tissue to the sides of the cavity in which it is lodged. Its anterior extremity is somewhat dilated and contains a little otolithe; moreover into it open the ampulla? of the anterior and external semi- Pig. 533. otolithe. canals. 3d. The membranous semicircular Internal ear of Perch. (After Cuvier.) circular canals. The posterior extremity of the vestibule is narrower, and into this part opens the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal and the hinder termination of the external one. Near the middle of the vestibular sac enters the wide duct formed by the conjunction of the terminations of the anterior and posterior semi- circular canals; but whether this wide duct ought rather to be looked upon as forming part of the vestibule or of the semicircular canals may be a matter of doubt, although the latter supposition is the most probable. Thus the six extremities of the three semi- circular canals communicate with the cavity of the membranous vestibule, not by six, but by five orifices. The membrane of which the vestibule con- sists is considerably thinner than that which forms the semicircular canals; indeed it is so delicate that if torn it at once collapses and is scarcely distinguishable from the surrounding parts. In the Pike (Esox lucius) there is a re- markable appendage to the vestibule which is not met with in other Fishes. This consists of a pyriform membranous sacculus lodged in the commencement of the spinal canal, which opens into the vestibular cavity by a narrow orifice near the entrance of the posterior semicircular canal. The thickness of the walls of this sacculus is much greater than that of the pa- rietes of the vestibule, resembling rather in this respect the ampullar of the semicircular canals. Some of the upper spinal nerves are distributed to this organ, but they give off no branches, nor does it appear to receive any filament from the auditory nerve. The sue of the otolithe. in most Fishes is immediately beneath and in close contact with the membranous vestibule, but in some it is hidden in the base of the occipital bone more remote from the vestibular cavity, with which it is joined by a narrower duct. The succus is most generally divided into two portions by a median septum, in such a way, however, that the ante-