ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 184 qui resulte d'un travail d'irritation dont le foie est devenu le siege. Cette irritation est tantot idiopathique, et tantot elle est la suite d'une irritation primitivement fixee sur le tube di- gestif. " Une seconde espece d'hyperemie, dont le foie me parait susceptible, est celle dans la- quelle le sang s'accumule d'une maniere toute passive au sein du parenchyme hepatique, comme il s'accumule dans les gencives des scorbutiques. " Enfin le troisieme espece d'hyperemie du foie est purement mecanique; elle s'observe dans les cas ou un obstacle quelconque s'oppose a la libre entree du sang dans les cavites droites du coeur; le sang stagne alors dans les veines sus-bepatiques, et engorge, le foie." Now the researches of Kiernan have proved that " in consequence of its double circulation, the liver is naturally in a state of sanguineous congestion" after death, and that author has also pointed out the various forms of conges- tion which are observed in the organ. " San- guineous congestion of the liver," he observes, " is either general or partial." a. General congestion affects the whole of the substance of the liver, which presents a gene- rally diffused red colour; the central portions of the lobules having usually a deeper hue than the marginal portions. Partial congestion is of two kinds, Hepatic venous congestion. Portal venous congestion. b. Hepatic venous congestion may exist in two stages. " In the first and most common stage (Jig- 42) the hepatic veins, their intra- lobular branches, and the central portions of the lobular venous plexuses are congested. The congested substance is in small isolated patches of a red colour, and occupying the centres of the lobules is medullary; the non-congested substance is of a yellowish white, yellow, or greenish colour, according to the quantity and quality of the bile it contains; it is conti- nuous throughout the liver, and forming the marginal portions of the lobules is cortical." Fig. 42. Rounded lobules in the first stage of hepatic venous con ■ gestion, as seen upon the surface of the liver. After Kiernan. "This is the usual and natural state of the organ after death," and arises from arrest in the circulation of the hepatic veins, while the cur- rent of blood in the minute branches of the portal vein is still in motion. " In the second stage (fig. 43) the congestion extends through the lobular venous plexuses to those branches of the portal vein situated in the interlobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which being larger there and giving origin to those in the fissures, are the last to be congested; when these vessels contain blood the congestion is general, and the whole liver is red. In this second stage the non-congested substance appears in isolated circular and ra- mous patches, in the centres of which the spaces Fig. 43. Lobules in the second stage of hepatic venous conges- tion, as seen on the surface of the liver. The dark centres of the preceding stage have become conjoined at the interlobular fissures, while the uncongested parts encircle an intralobular space. and fissures are seen. This form of congestion " very commonly attends disease of the heart and acute disease of the lungs or pleune ; the liver is larger than usual in consequence of the quantity of blood it contains, and is frequently at the same time in a state of biliary conges- tion, which probably arises from the sangui- neous congestion. Although in the first stage the central portions of the plexuses, and in the second the greater portion of each plexus, and those branches of the portal vein occupying the fissures are congested, and although the plexuses are formed by the portal vein, yet as this form of congestion commences in the hepatic veins and extends towards the portal vein, and as it is necessary to distinguish this form from that commencing in the portal vein, the term of he- patic-venous congestion will not probably be deemed inapplicable to it." The second stage of hepatic venous congestion, generally com- bined with biliary congestion, gives rise to those various appearances which are called dram- drinkers' or nutmeg liver. c. " Portal venous congestion is of very rare occurrence ; I have seen it in children only. In this form, the congested substance never as- sumes the deep red colour which characterises hepatic-venous congestion ; the interlobular fis- sures and spaces and the marginal portions of the lobules are of a deeper colour than usual ; the congested substance is continuous and cor- tical, the non-congested substance being me-