PERINEUM. 931 fan-shaped, appearing expanded at the urethra and contracted at their origin from the bone, and they are believed to have the power of compressing the urethra so as to close the canal. Notwithstanding the accurate descriptions of Mr. Guthrie, many excellent anatomists have failed to demonstrate the exact arrangement of fleshy fibres which he has remarked, but the majority incline to the opinion that the peculiar reddish material in question is of a muscular nature. The arteries of the bulb (one at either side) spring from the internal pudic after those ves- sels have arrived at the triangular ligament of the urethra, and whilst they are overlapped by the crura penis. Interposed between the la- mina;, and situated about a quarter of an inch above the base of the triangular ligament, the artery of the bulb runs nearly transversely in- wards, and near the urethra divides into two branches, of which one is small and destined for Cowper's gland, whilst the other is of large size and perforates the bulb to supply the corpus spongiosum urethra;. The arteries of the bulb are of considerable magnitude, parti- cularly after puberty, so that they bleed pro- fusely when wounded; they retract between the layers of the triangular ligament when divided, and this added to the narrowness of the peri- neum in front, and to the distance from the surface at which they are placed, renders it diffi- cult for the surgeon to secure their cut extremi- ties or otherwise to control their hemorrhage. The consequences of such an accident may prove speedily fatal; extreme care must there- fore be taken to protect these vessels from the knife during lithotomy. The artery of the bulb is endangered in the second period of the lateral operation whilst the surgeon cuts into the membranous portion of the urethra to lay bare the groove of the staff. The knife should be introduced into the urethra behind the bulb, and below and behind the course of the artery, and little or none of the triangular ligament except the posterior lamina where it invests the membranous portion of the urethra, should be divided in this incision, for the vessel requiring protection lies about one quarter of an inch above the base of the liga- ment, and therefore none but the very lowest fibres of that structure can be cut with impu- nity ; in short the incision must be made into the membranous portion of the urethra as it lies behind the triangular ligament, and the bulb must be studiously avoided. Irregularities in the direction of these arteries calculated to em- barrass the operating surgeon are occasionally encountered ; arising sometimes prematurely from the pudic, they ascend very obliquely to the bulb; and again, although given off from the pudic at the usual place, they now and then take a curved course to their destination, the convexity of the curvature looking downwards and backwards ; when either of these varieties occurs, the vessels in question run much closer to the base of the triangular ligament than usual, and are therefore imminently endangered in lithotomy. The internal pudic arteries in their third stage belong to the perineum. This stage com- mences where the vessel enters the pelvis at the lesser sciatic notch, and ends at the ramus of the pubis, where it divides into its terminating branches. Posteriorly the trunk of the internal pudic is (strictly speaking) placed outside the precincts of the perineum, being separated from the ischio-rectal fossa by the obturator fascia, but it runs so close to that part of the region, and sends so many of its branches through the intermediate partition to lose themselves in pe- rineo, that its description may be here legiti- mately given. At the commencement of its third stage, the internal pudic is interposed be- tween the obturator fascia and the obturator internus muscle, the muscle separating it from the bone, whilst the falciform process of the great sciatic ligament covers the artery infe- riorly : in this situation it lies at a great depth from the surface, being upwards of an inch above the level of the tuber ischii, and at least two inches and a-half distant from the integu- ment ; it here also describes a slight curve in- clining upwards, forwards, and inwards, towards the edge of the ramus of the ischium. In the latter part of its third stage the internal pudic artery insinuates itself between the lamina; of the triangular ligament, and after continuing thus for some distance it at length perforates the superficial layer, places itself between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubis, and there finally divides into the artery of the crus and the dorsal artery of the penis. On entering the pelvis the pudic arteries of opposite sides are widely separated from each other, but in the neighbourhood of the pubis they gradually converge until their ultimate branches meet on the dorsum of the penis; their position likewise becomes more and more su- perficial as they proceed. In the early part of its third stage the pudic artery is accompanied by the trunk of the inter- nal pudic nerve, and afterwards for a short dis- tance by both the branches of that nerve; but the deeper of the two (viz. the dorsalis penis) alone continues in relation with the artery in the latter part of its course. Two veins accom- pany the artery throughout. The position of the internal pudic vessels exposes them to injury in the lateral operation of lithotomy; but if their relations be considered it will appear that the danger of hemorrhage from this source has been much exaggerated. The falciform process of the great sciatic liga- ment, the crus penis, the projecting edges of the bones, and the obturator fascia afford these vessels so much protection from below that the operator seldom wounds them in cutting into the bladder, nor is such an injury possible un- less the edge of the knife be lateralized to an extreme degree ; but if the knife be carelessly withdrawn from the bladder, they certainly incur considerable risk, for in that step of the operation a layer of fibrous membrane alone protects the vessels, and the convex edge of the instrument, if directed unduly outwards, might readily enough divide them. When such an accident has occurred, all attempts to tie the bleeding artery in the ordinary manner have 3 o 2