MOTION. 480 and as the lengths of the steps are greater in leap- ing than in running, the velocity is not very sen- sibly diminished, although the duration of each step is increased ; that is, for example, when we substitute three leaping, instead of four running, steps in a second. In Table 12 we find that the greatest length of step in running is l1".5*2, and in Table 13 that the greatest length of step in leaping is lm.977, consequently four of the for- mer exceed three in the latter mode of progres- sion in a second by 0m.237, or 0.76736 feet only ; but this loss of space is compensated by the greater time the pedestrian employs in tak- ing each step in leaping, being = 0".136. MM. Weber consider that leaping stands in the same relation to running that the grave step in slow walking does to quick walking. The difference of the grave and quick step in walk- ing consists in this, that in the former the oscil- lation of the leg has nearly completed its curve of vibration before it is placed on the ground, and therefore forms a greater an°le with the vertical than the hind leg. The same difference also exists between running and leaping, inde- pendently of which there is another important variation, which is that in leaping the swinging leg completes its entire arc of vibration before it is placed on the ground, and makes the greatest angle with the vertical it can possibly effect. In running, on the contrary, the leg is set per- pendicularly on the ground and consequently the angle with the vertical = o. In the grave step as well as in leaping the foot is brought into contact with the ground preparatory to resting upon it; and, lastly, the duration of the leaping step exceeds that of the running step in the same degree that the duration of the grave step exceeds that of the quick step. These are the principal differences which distinguish the four modes of locomotion most usually adopted by man. The study of the mechanism of which the lo- comotive organs of animals is composed, of the laws by which their progression is accomplished, and of the vital force which they expend in pro- pelling the body from one point in space to another with different velocities, serves to in- struct alike the anatomist and the physiologist, the artist and the mechanician. Ignorance of these laws has been productive of grotesque delineations of the human figure as well as of the lower animals when represented in motion. We have abundant evidence of this in the pro- ductions of painters and sculptors, both of the ancient and modern schools. Locomotion is not only a function indispensably necessary for the prolongation of the lives of a vast as- semblage of animals, but it is also applicable as a force to innumerable purposes in life. On account of the importance of this subject, we shall in conclusion briefly investigate the man- ner in which animal force is estimated, and under what circumstances it may be employed to the greatest advantage. Thus, let (p denote the whole force of an animal when at rest, and let us suppose it to be incapable of any effort when it is moving with the velocity V; let F be the effective force when its velocity is V; then, if the action of the force be uniform, (which from the principles assigned we may consider to be the case,) since it is the dif- ference only between the velocities V and V" that is efficient, the effective force will vary as the square of the efficient velocity, that is <p : F : : (V — of : (V —-V')s hence F = <p (Y=T)*=?(l - X * and V - V' J 9 (41) ^<p — VF or, the utmost velocity with which any animal not impeded moves, is to its velocity when im- peded by a given resistance, as the square root of its absolute force to the difference of the square roots of its absolute and effective forces. Let us now investigate the velocity with which an animal must move and what must be its load, that the work performed by it may be a maximum. Retaining the same notation, let V —V = u ; then since F = (b '- r V the product of the moving force into its velo- city, or the momentum of impulse FV, will = <P~^-(y — u)> and making this a maximum, we find u = §V, and V = JV. Therefore the effective work of an animal is a maximum when it is so loaded, that with its whole force in action its velocity amounts to one-third of the greatest velocity which it is capable of exerting without any load at all. In a series of experiments made on men and horses, by drawing a lighter along a canal, and working several days consecutively, the force was measured by the curvature and weight of a track rope, as well as by a spring steel- yard ; and the product of this force multiplied by the velocity per hour was considered as the momentum. By these experiments the forces of men were found very nearly as (V — V')2, and those of horses, loaded so as not to be able to trot, as (V — V')1'? to (V — V')1-8, results which agree very closely with the theory. In the application of these formula? let us suppose a man's power to be 70 pounds, and his utmost speed in walking to be six feet per second, hence <p will equal 70, and V equal 6, therefore F = '== 3VS, which is the greatest force a man can exert in walking, and he will move at the rate of = 2 feet in a second.f The strength of a horse may be easily computed in a similar manner—it is generally reckoned to be six times that of man, or about 420 pounds at a dead pull—then its * This is a formula of F.uler's, who has given another expression <p ^1 ^— ^ : by this formula the greatest mechanical effect is when V 33 ■/ i V, but it does not agree with the expe- riments of Schulze and others as near as the one in the text. See Schulze on the Strength of Men and Horses, Aatd. Bet I. 1783. t According to Buchanen, the force expended in pumping is 1742, by a winch 2856, in ringing 3883, and in rowing 4095.—Buchanen on human labour, Repert. 15, 319.