947 PHARYNX. and, lastly, is said to arise from the side of the tongue near its base: this lingual origin is con- sidered by some anatomists as a part of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle :* arising thus, the superior constrictor winds round the pharynx and is inserted into the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis, upon which it is placed, and joins with its fellow from the opposite side at the median raphe. The superior fibres make a semicircular sweep upwards towards the spine of the basilar process, to which they are con- nected by the raphe : the rest pass more trans- versely to their insertion and are partially over- lapped by the middle constrictor: between the yj^ upper border of this muscle and the base of the skull the pharyngeal aponeurosis is left un- covered by muscular fibres. The superior constrictor corresponds posteriorly to the cer- vical vertebrae, and is separated laterally from the internal pterygoid by a triangular space which is occupied by the internal carotid ar- tery, internal jugular vein, and the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves: the stylo-pharyngeus muscle is also related to its outer side before it descends beneath the middle constrictor: by its internal surface it is applied upon the levator palali and palato-pharyngeus muscles, the mu- cous membrane and the tonsil. The muscular layer thus formed round the pharynx is of varying thickness, the greatest strength prevailing behind the buccal cavity, where the inferior constrictor, in itself the strongest of these muscles, overlaps the middle: on the other hand, there is but little occa- sion for muscular action behind the nasal fossae, so we find', in accordance with this circumstance, a greater delicacy in the fibres of the superior constrictor and a defici- ency of muscle altogether higher up: pro- bably, also, the overlapping of these muscles from below upwards and the oblique direction of many of their fibres have reference to the downward passage of the food. The margins of the constrictors, as these muscles lie on each other, are not very distinct, particularly towards the back part of the phaiynx. Additional mus- cular slips have occasionally been observed by different anatomists, which may be briefly no- ticed:—1. fibres from the petrous process of the temporal bone to pass downwards and back- walds; 2. from the basilar process directed inwards ; 3. from the internal pterygoid plate and hamular process directed downwards and inwards; 4. from the spinous process of the sphenoid and from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. Use.—Besides constricting the cavity of the pharynx, the inferior and middle constrictors can raise the larynx and carry it backwards, the latter through the medium of the os hyoides. The extrinsic muscles of the pharynx are two on either side, the stylo- and palato-pharyngei. * Cruveilhier says " that those fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, which occupy the interval be- tween the os hyoides and the stylo-irlossus, cover the corresponding portion of the pharynx, or rather the amygdaloid excavation." Valsalva and Han- torini regard these fibres as forming a distinct muscle, and name it the glosso-pharyngeus. Stylo-pharyngeus.—This is a long slender muscle, broader below than above, and arises from the inner side of the styloid process at its base, and from the neighbouring part of the vaginal process : it descends inwards and for- wards towards the greater cornu of the os hyoides, and expanding insinuates itself be- neath the upper edge of the middle constrictor muscle to be applied upon the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx: it is inserted with the palato-pharyngeus into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage: soon after its origin it passes with the stylo-glossus muscle between the external and internal carotid arteries, lying upon the latter and the internal jugular vein : a particular feature in this muscle is its close relation to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which winds round its lower border from behind for- wards: as it descends, its next relation is the side of the superior constrictor, and passing between it and the constrictor medius it is applied upon the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Use.—The stylo-pharyngei raise and widen the pharynx, preparing it for the reception of the food: they are important muscles in deglu- tition : the larynx is also raised by them. Palato-pharyngeus.—This muscle will be again referred to as belonging to the palate: its fibres are contained in the fold of mucous membrane known as the posterior pillar of the fauces: it expands upwards to the soft palate, and downwards to the pharynx under the supe- rior constrictor : it descends to spread its fibres on the mucous membrane, and is inserted with the stylo-pharyngeus into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. 2. General revieiu of the attachments of the pharynx.—By referring to the foregoing de- scriptive anatomy of its aponeurosis and mus- cles, the pharynx will be seen to form from one-half to two-thirds of a vertically elongated cylinder, open in front; and although before terminating, the interior of the pharynx is con- verted into a complete canal, it is so only by the relation of a totally distinct organ, viz. the larynx. Descending perpendicularly from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, the pharynx is applied evenly to the anterior aspect of the bodies of the cer- vical vertebrae and deep muscles of the neck, having a remarkably loose areolar tissue inter- vening, important as preserving to it a perfect freedom of motion, while, by its anterior edges, it is fixed to the internal pterygoid plates, to the pterygo-maxillary ligaments, by means of which it is continuous with the lateral walls of the mouth, to the inferior maxillary bone, the sides of the tongue and cornua of the os hyoides, thus forming behind the nasal and buccal cavi- ties a large pouch, whose parietes being con- stantly strained apart by these attachments, preserve a perfectly free cavity, a circumstance of considerable importance with reference to the continual passage of air to and from the respiratory apparatus : continuing downwards, the pharynx next embraces the sides of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, but as there is no longer occasion for this tension of its walls, 3 p 2