LIFE. 149 festation of these, while the substance remains in the condition of inorganic matter, is no proof that they do not appertain to it. We find nothing, then, in our fundamental ideas of matter, to oppose the doctrine that vital properties are developed in it by the very act of organisation. But we shall consider the question in another point of view. We are constantly witnessing examples of the total change effected upon the properties of certain forms of matter by their entrance into new combinations. Thus, how completely different are the properties of a salt from those of the acid and alkali which unite to form it. And we are not obliged to have recourse to chemical union for cases of such a change; since there are examples in which mere mechanical admixture of the particles of different bodies will produce the same. How different, for instance, are the properties of gunpowder from those of any of its ingredients. They are all combustible it is true ; but in a manner as unlike it as each other. Does any one think of assigning any other cause to these changes than the act of combination or admixture? Does he seek for it in the operation of a saline property super- added to the compound of acid and alkali; or of a combustible principle presiding over the combined actions of the nitre, sulphur, and charcoal, and directing them to one common object ? If not, why shou'd he adopt a different course in regard to vital properties ? In our investigation of natural phenomena, we never observe a substance endowed with new properties, without it lias undergone some change in its own condition, of which altered state these properties are the necessary attend- ants. Unless, therefore, an instance could be produced in which the same form of matter shall at one time evince properties of which it is proved to be destitute at another, we have no right to speak of any property as distinct from the matter which exhibits it, or as capable of being superadded to it or subtracted from it. It may be desirable for us to pause here, in order to examine a case in which it has been alleged that such an addition lakes place, and which has been used as an analogical argument in support of the doctrine of a vital principle. It has been commonly said that a living body, in assimilating and organising the nutrient matter by which the changes essential to its ex- istence are maintained, superadds or communi- cates to it by a separate act, those vital proper- ties of which it was itself previously possessed ; and there is no more difficulty, it has been argued, in conceiving how vital properties may be communicated to organised matter, than in understanding how magnetic properties maybe superinduced upon iron. But the analogy is based upon a false conception of the latter process, which is really conformable in cha- racter to those by which gravitation or any other properties of matter are brought into ac- tion. For the so-called communication of magnetic properties to iron is nothing more than the production of a change in the condi- tions of the metal, by which its electric proper- ties are manifested in a manner peculiar to itself, and caused to give rise to magnetic powers. If, then, an analogy exists between the two processes, (which can scarcely be de- nied,) it leads us to the belief that, just as mag- netic powers are developed in iron, when the metallic mass is placed in a condition to mani- fest them, so the very act of organization deve- lopes vital powers in the tissues which it constructs. For no one can assert that there does not exist in every uncombined particle of matter which is capable of being assimilated, the ability to exhibit vital actions when placed in the requisite conditions; in other words, when made a part of a living system by the process of organisation. It is only the com- plexity of the conditions required to manifest it, which prevents our recognising this capabi- lity as a common property of matter, or at least of those forms of it which we know by expe- rience to enter into the composition of organised structures. Such are the conclusions to which we are led by the general comparison of vital phenomena with those of the external world ; and it would be difficult, we might say impossible, to prove that there is anything in the former which re- moves them from the pale of such reasoning. In fact, it appears to us that observation of them alone would lead to similar inferences. We perceive organisation and vital properties simultaneously communicated to the germ by the structures of its parent; those vital proper- ties confer upon it the means of itself assimi- lating, and thereby endowing with vitality, the materials supplied by the inorganic world. It is very true that in this germ we cannot per- ceive a single trace of the future being, the various organs and structures of which are evolved during its development. But these are not evolved in any other way than by the progressive extension and complication of the parts of the original germ. If we witnessed the aggregation of inorganic matter to form a head in one place, a trunk in another, and limbs in a third, and the subsequent union of these, we might be disposed to suspect the existence of some invisible agent which di- rected and controlled the operation; but we can trace nothing in the real process but the effect of the properties with which the struc- ture of the germ is endowed at the same time and by the same act that it is organised by the parent. Nor is there anything in the subsequent life of the being that op- poses such a view; on the contrary, much that confirms it. As long as each tissue retains its normal constitution, renovated by the ac- tions of absorption and deposition by which that constitution is preserved, and surrounded by those concurrent conditions which a living system alone can afford, so long, we have reason to believe, it will retain its vital proper- ties, and no longer. And just as we have no evidence of the existence of vital properties in any other form of matter than that denomi- nated organised, so have we no reason to be- lieve that organised matter can retain its regular constitution, and be subjected to its appro- priate stimuli, without exhibiting vital actions. The advance of pathological science renders it every day more probable that derangement ia