416 MOTION. Arnott, though it has been erroneously ascribed by Professor Miiller to Weber. Subsequent experiments made by Dr. Todd, Mr. Wormald, and others, have fully established the mecha- nical influence of the air in keeping the mecha- nism of the joints together. The amount of atmospheric pressure on any joint depends upon the area or surface presented to its influence and the height of the barometer. The forces acting in opposition to the weight of the limb are the pressure of the air, and a force em- ployed by the ligaments and muscles equal to the excess of the weight of the limb, if any, above that of the pressure of the atmosphere. According to Weber the atmospheric pressure on the hip-joint of a man is about 26 pounds. The pressure on the knee-joint is estimated by Dr. Arnott at 60 pounds. This estimate agrees with our measurement of the area of the surface of the knee-joint in an adult female, but is too small for an adult male which is about 90 pounds. In the Elephant and Megatherium, the pressure of the air upon the joints is greater in proportion to the increased bulk and weight of their limbs. In the latter the area of the plane bounded by the edge of the coty- loid cavity, is an ellipse whose diameters are seven and eight inches, and therefore present a plane surface exceeding 43.9824 square inches, which, being multiplied by fifteen, with the barometerat 30inches,willbe=43.9824 X 15, or about six hundred and sixty pounds pres- sure upon the cotyloid joint of this greatest of terrestrial Mammalia. Muscles.—The amount and effects of mus- cular contraction, the absolute and relative power of muscles in reference to their length, mass, and obliquity of direction, and the ex- penditure of their power to support given weights, will now be either simply noticed or briefly estimated. In the application of muscles to the purposes of locomotion we find them so arranged as to produce great velocity, and at the same time to admit a great extent of motion, still preserving the beauty of proportion. These objects are obtained, 1st, from the oblique directions of their fibres towards the tendons ; 2d, from the obliquity of the direction of the tendon to the bones on which they act; 3d, from the proxi- mity of their points of insertion to the articu- lations of the bones, or axes of motion in the joints. The muscles are capable of contracting (ac- cording to the researches of MM. Prevost and Dumas) about f033 or nearly one-fourth their whole length, which, owing to the circumstances just mentioned, is sufficient to produce all the positions and motions observed in animals. It has been already determined by experi- ment that the volumes of muscles do not alter by contraction, their thickness only increasing as they decrease in length, and vice versa. The comparative power of muscles in the same animal, according to Borelli, may be thus estimated:— When two muscles are composed of an equal number of fibres, or are of equal thickness but .of unequal lengths, they will suspend equal weights, but their motor powers and the height to which they are capable of raising the weights will be as the lengths of the muscles. 2d. When the lengths of the muscles are equal and their thicknesses unequal, their rela- tive powers will depend upon their thicknesses, but they will raise weights to equal heights. 3d. When the lengths and thicknesses are unequal, the weights they will raise will depend on their thicknesses, and the heights to which they will raise them will be as their lengths. When the fleshy fibres of a muscle lie pa- rallel to the tendon, the space through which they will draw it equals the contraction of the fleshy fibres; but when they are inserted ob- liquely into the tendon, the space through which they will draw it will vary with the in- clination. Thus, let two equal fleshy fibres, AC, B C, (Jig. 218) similarly situated with respect to the tendon C D, be inserted obliquely at C, join A B, and produce D C to meet it in P, then D P is perpendicular to A B. Now if the points at A B be considered as fixed, and the angle A C P be such that radius : its sine : : A C : to the length of A C when contracted, then the joint action of the fibres will draw the point C to P. Fig. 218. For with A B, as centres describe the circular arcs P E, P F, touching each other at P, then it is evident that the point C will, after the contraction of C A, be somewhere in the arc E P, because the radius of E P is the length of A C when contracted; for a similar reason C will be somewhere in F P; therefore it will be at P, their point of contact. The same result becomes apparent from the consi- deration that the forces in the direction C A, C B are equivalent to forces in the direction C P, P A and C P, P B respectively, of which the forces in the direction C P are not counter- acted, but gradually diminish and become zero when the fibres are at right angles to their tendon, that is, when C coincides with P. It is here assumed that there is no ob- stacle to the free motion of the tendon in the line C P. If the obliquity of the fibres be less than A C P, the arcs will intersect in some point between P and C, and the contractile force will be insufficient to draw C to P. If, on the contrary, the obliquity be greater than the angle AC P, the arcs will not meet, but C