252 MAMMARY GLANDS. has a relation to the aquatic mode of life, the whole surface of the body being constructed with the view of avoiding friction. The mammary gland in the Ornythorhynchus consists inter- nally of pyriform ccecal pouches, with their bases turned towards the skin, their apices communicating with short excretory ducts; the walls of these pouches are thick and the cavities nar- row. As regards simplicity of the in- ternal arrangement of the gland, that in the common porpoise, where the cells and milk tubes are large and diffused, may be placed next in order to the Ornithorhynchus. There is no reason for supposing that there is any essential departure from this kind of arrangement of the secreting portion of the gland in dif- Fig. 78. Fig. 77. One of the clefts a little open, to shew the end of the mamillm buried in it. Fig. 79. Shews the cleft more open, exhibiting the nipple and its orifice projecting into it. These clefts are placed in their natural direction in the long axis of the animal, but Jig. 77 is not. ferent animals, the cellular or vesicular having been met with in all instances where this gland has been carefully injected and un- ravelled. But the efferent ducts vary con- siderably. We learn from Sir A. Cooper that the cow, the ewe, the goat, the guinea-pig, and the porpoise, have only one tube in each teat. The pig has two, the rhinoceros has twelve, and the hare and rabbit and the cat and bitch several. " In the Graminivora the reservoirs are enormously large, in the Carni- vora comparatively small. In the pig there is scarely any reservoir; in the porpoise the great enlargement of the milk-tube is a substitute for the reservoir.'' Shews the situation of the clefts in the skin of the Porpoise which contain the mamillcB, and which are placed on each side of the anus and os externum vagina). They are considerably smaller than nature in this drawing, but Jigs. 78 and 79 are of the natural sixe. Morbid anatomy.—It must be clearly under- stood by our readers that we do not intend to give more than a mere outline of its diseases, and must refer them for more ample information to the admirable works of Sir A. Cooper and others. The diseases of the breast have been divided by Sir A. Cooper into three classes; " first, those which are the result of common inflammation, whether it be acute or chronic. Secondly, into complaints which arise from peculiar or specific action, but which are not malignant, and do not contaminate other struc- tures. Thirdly, into those which are not only founded on local, malignant, and specific ac- tions, but which are connected with a peculiar and unhealthy state of the constitution. Simple inflammation of the breast, like in- flammation in every organ where its progress would rapidly prove destructive to its essential structure, is attended with excessive and in- ordinate pain, and thus gives such warning of the danger that it cannot be disregarded by the sufferer. The fibrous protective covering of the gland, like that of the testicle, prevents inordinate swelling, but occasions greater hardness to the touch. This inflammatory action, usually very unequivocal in its appearance, very rapidly de- velopes pus ; the abscess following is trouble- some and extremely obstinate in cure ; chronic abscess does, however, occasionally occur, and absence of all the usual symptoms of inflam- mation masks the character of the disease and gives rise to the suspicion that it is a malignant tumour requiring extirpation. Sir Astley re- lates some cases which came under his notice in which the sense of fluctuation indicated to him the true character of the disease, and others in which the extirpating knife of the surgeon was only arrested by the flow of pus. This same author describes such occasional distension of one of the lactiferous tubes caused by chronic inflammation and obliteration of its aperture as to simulate chronic abscess. The breast is liable to what has been called hydatid disease, of which there are four kinds, one of a malignant nature; the other three are not so. The first has been designated by Sir A. Cooper cellulous hydatids; the second is the sero-cystic tumour of Sir B. Brodie; the third is the ani-