761 (ESOPHAGUS. being in great part or altogether deficient. In some cases the pharynx does not terminate in a cul-de-sac, but opens by a small orifice at the side of the neck. Another congenital mal- formation more rare than the last consists in the division of a portion of the oesophagus into two canals placed side by side. Acquired malformation.—One of the most common kinds of acquired malformation is dilatation either general or partial. In the Museum of King's College there is a remark- able specimen of a dilated oesophagus. At each extremity it is healthy and of the natural size ; the intermediate part is enlarged to an extra- ordinary degree of dilatation ; the lining mem- brane is thickened and opaque, and has the appearance of having partially yielded from dilatation. The muscular fibres were of the natural colour and thickness. The dysphagia in this case was as great as in a case of stric- ture. * Dilatation is a common consequence of stricture. In such cases the dilatation usually occupies the whole circumference of the canal. In some rare cases dilatation occurs in the form of a pouch projecting on one side of the canal. Occasionally the mucous mem- brane alone becomes pouched, protruding as a hernia between the muscular fibres, but more commonly the muscular coat also dilates and expands over the pouch. Bleuland mentions a case in which a large pouch containing ali- mentary matters compressed the canal below so as completely to close it, and to prevent the passage of food into the stomach. These pouches are most common at the upper ex- tremity of the oesophagus, probably in con- sequence of the sudden constriction which the canal undergoes at this point, and partly too in consequence of the muscular coat being thinner here than in any other part.f Structural changes.—Among the most com- mon are those which result from inflam- mation, which however is seldom idiopathic, but generally the consequence of swallowing irritating substances, hot liquids, the strong acids or alkalies. The effects in such cases vary in degree from slight redness and soften- ing of the mucous membrane, to ulceration and sloughing of the whole circumference of the tube. The Museum at King's College con- tains a preparation of an oesophagus and of a slough discharged from it, which was taken from ayoung woman who had swallowed oil of vitriol. A week afterwards she brought up a slough having a tubular form, and consisting of the whole lining membrane of the gullet. Some of the muscular fibres were plainly visible on the outside of the slough, in its recent state.I Dr. Baillie gives a drawing of a Jake mem- brane lining the pharynx and oesophagus, taken from a patient who had thrush. The oesophagus is very frequently the seat of stricture, the causes of which are various. Not unfiequently it depends on the contraction of a cicatrix after sloughing produced by the con- * This case has been fully described by Mr. Mayo in the third volume of the Medical Gazette. + Meckel, Manuel d'Anatomie. X Dr. Watson's lectures, vol. ii. p. 332. tact of some irritating agent. The constriction in these cases appears to go on continually in- creasing. Sir C. Bell mentions a case in which starvation was the consequence of stricture of the oesophagus, twenty years after swallowing a quantity of soap lees. Another common cause of stricture is cancerous disease. This is generally confined to the lower extremity, but occasionally it pervades every part of the oesophagus.* A more rare case of stricture is described by Sir E. Homef In this case a membranous partition extended across the canal; in the centre of the partition was a narrow passage; the coats of the oesophagus surround- ing the stricture were but slightly changed. In cases of simple imilammatory stricture all the coats of the oesophagus are thickened and indurated at the seat of stricture, lymph is effused between them, and the bloodvessels are enlarged and distended. In consequence of stricture the oesophagus above becomes much dilated; sometimes ulceration and abscess occur. Dr. Monro mentions a case in which death occurred suddenly in consequence of purulent matter escaping into the trachea. Morbid growths are occasionally found in the oesophagus. Dr. Monroj describes the dissection of a man aged 68, in whom the oesophagus was dilated by a large fleshy excre- scence or polypus. It was attached three inches below the epiglottis and reached down to the upper orifice of the stomach. Haller§ gives an account of the dissection of a man, in whom was found a polypus about seven fingers' breadth long, and of the thickness of a worm, which in its general appearance it very much resembled ; it had a carneo-fibrous appearance, a soft consistence, and a deep red colour. Fatty and steatomatous tumours have occasionally been found in the gullet. In other cases a portion of the canal has been found converted into bone, or cartilaginous tumours have grown from it. An aneurism springing from the posterior part of the arch of the aorta may compress the oesophagus against the spine. The imme- diate consequence is difficulty of swallowing and other symptoms of stricture, and at length in many cases ulceration and sloughing of the oesophagus with escape of blood from the aneu- rism either into the mouth or the stomach. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Meckel, Manuel d'Anatomie. Cruneilhier, Anatoraie Descriptive. Bleuland, De sana et morbosa oesophagi structura. Todd and Bowman, Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man. Midler, Physiology, by Dr. Jialy. Monro, Morbid Anatomy of the human gullet, stomach, and intestines. Sir E. Home, Practical observa- tions on strictures. Holler, Disputationes ad rnorbos. (Geo. Johnson.) OLFACTORY NERVES. See Nose and Smell. • Monro's Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gul- let, Stomach, and Intestines. f Practical Observations on Strictures, vol. ii. p. 407, 3d ed. J Op. cit. j Disputationes ad Morb. torn. iii. p. 596.