ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 70 patella backwards, and it breaks transversely, —according to Boyer and Malgaigne, " par la meme mecanisme que nous cassons un baton place en travers le genou ; en agissant avec les deux mains sur ses deux extremites." In transverse, oblique, and comminuted fractures of the patella there is almost always more or less separation of the fragments, and the signs of the accident are easily recognized. In some cases of fracture of the patella the fibrous and aponeurotic layer which immediately invests it anteriorly is broken ; in other cases, particularly those from external violence, the fibrous layer remains entire; it is in these latter cases, as the fragments are preserved in complete appo- sition, that bony consolidation may be ex- pected. The following case, which it lately fell to our lot to attend in the Richmond Hos- pital, appears to possess some interest as a fact, tending to throw light on some of the disputed questions here adverted to relative to this ac- cident. A man, set. 18, on the evening of 16th Fe- bruary, 1839, fell from the height of twenty feet to the ground, and fractured two of the cervical vertebra, of which injury and its con- sequences on the spinal marrow he died in forty hours. His lower limbs were paralyzed. It was noticed that the integuments over the patella were much bruised, and that there was some effusion into the cavity of the knee- joint. On the post-mortem investigation, the patella was found traversed by a perfect frac- ture of the bone; but the fragments were not separated from each other. On examining the patella anteriorly, its fibrous and aponeurotic coverings were in a perfect condition. Upon looking at the posterior articular surface of the patella, the cartilage was broken correspond- ing to the line of the transverse fracture of the patella, but only half-way across the trans- verse extent of the fracture was entirely through the bone. We regarded this accident to the patella to be the result of direct violence, com- plete paralysis of the lower limb having oc- curred as the immediate effect of the lesion of the spinal marrow; the usual source of dis- placement arising from muscular contraction was here destroyed. When we bear in mind the complete apposition existing in the frag- ments of this patella, we cannot for our parts question but that if life had been preserved, complete consolidation should have taken place. Although but few doubts are now entertained that the transverse fracture of the patella is in general a real rupture of the bone transversely, owing to the powerful action of muscles, it may not perhaps be amiss to adduce as an ex- ample of it, the following case of a patient who many years ago was under the care of the late Mr. Todd in the Richmond Hospital. A remarkably muscular man, a lamp-lighter in this city ( Dublin), was on the top of his ladder when it slipped from the larnp-post, and he fell with it to the ground, making at the moment vain but violent efforts to save himself. The whole muscular system, according to his own account, seemed to be suddenly thrown into energetic and involuntary effort, to resist the fall; when he was lifted up, he was unable to stand. Mr. Todd, having examined him, found both olecrana and both patella broken transversely. We have often heard the above- named professor mention this case in his lec- tures, and the treatment of the accident was also witnessed by Dr. Hutton. It was for a long time greatly doubted that bony union of the broken pieces of the pa- tella could occur, but it is now fully proved that the fractured patella does not want really any of the conditions necessary to the reunion and consolidation of broken bones. The spongy structure of the patella and the great number of bloodvessels entering into its structure ought to favour the inflammatory turgescence (Boyer) which seems necessary in the early stage of ossification, and would do so but that the continual contraction of the muscles feebly resisted by the bandages suggested by surgery, keeps the fragments separated from each other, and hence union has been so rare in those cases that the possibility of it under any cir- cumstances was for a long time questioned. Pibrac, one of the most distinguished members of the ancient Academy of Surgery of France, defied all the surgeons of Europe to shew a specimen of the fracture of the patella united solidly by bone, and no example was at that time produced. Among many cases published since that time in various works, proving the possibility of bony consolidation of the broken patella, we adduce the following.* Louis Manilla, aged 36 years, of a most vigorous constitution, being a veteran soldier in the Salpetriere, on the 7th of April, 1797, was thrown down by a comrade, with whom he was struggling. One of his knees supported all the effect of this fall, and the patient suffered in this part a sensation of crackling and laceration, and a pain which was extremely severe. He could not rise without assistance, and M. Lal- lement recognised a transverse fracture of the patella. The interval between the two frag- ments was very perceptible, but approximation of the two pieces was easily accomplished when the leg was extended. The patient having been brought to the infirmary, the fracture was re- duced by M. Lallement, and retained by means of the apparatus of Desault. This bandage was kept on for two months, at the end of which time the fracture appeared to be united. Dur- ing one year the patient walked with the assist- ance of a cane and then returned to his duty. The movements of the knee were nearly perfect, with the exception of flexion of the leg, which was still a little confined on the 18th Aug. 1810. Manilla died of an attack of apoplexy, and M. Lallement having examined the knee be- came satisfied that the two fragments of the patella were solidly united. This bone being submitted to ebullition for ten hours was de- prived of the articular cartilage which covered its posterior surface, and of the tendinous and aponeurotic fibres which enveloped it. It was now evident that the total height of the patella * See Boyer's Surgery, vol. iii. p. 358. Edit. Paris, 1818.