682 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) yet to be discovered. The anatomical con- nection of each anterior pyramid with the spinal cord, however, affords some clue to it. This takes place, it will be remembered, not by the decussating fibres only, but by straight and perpendicular ones also ; so that each py- ramid is connected with both halves of the spinal cord, first and principally with the op- posite half; and, secondly, and by much fewer fibres, with that of the same side. When those parts of the brain are affected, with which the decussating fibres are connected, the paralysis will be crossed ; when, on the other hand, the direct fibres are engaged, the paralytic affection will occur on the same side of the body as that on which the lesion has occurred. But even on this explanation it is difficult to understand how these latter cases should be of such rare occurrence, and still more, how hemiplegia is so frequently accompanied with a perfect state of sensation and motion on the other side. In the present state of our knowledge, however, this is the only contribution which anatomy can offer towards the determination of this difficult question. Of the restiform bodies.—The lateral, and, in great part, the posterior portion of the medulla Fig. 386. oblongata is formed on each side by a thick and rounded rope-like column, called the corpus restiforme. It is composed chiefly of fibrous matter, and its constituent fibres take a lon- gitudinal direction. There is no line of demar- cation between them and the fibres of the spinal cord, with the antero-lateral and posterior co- lumns of which they seem to be continuous. Traced upwards, the restiform bodies pass a little outwards, and by their divergence con- tribute to the increased size of the medulla oblongata at its base. To see the connexions of these bodies com- pletely, the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata should be examined. The restiform bodies form the greater part of this surface. They increase in thickness as they ascend. Their outer margin forms a gentle curve, which is concave. Their inner border is connected in its lower portion to two small bands of fibrous matter, betweenuwhich the posterior median fissure is situate^" these are the posterior py- ramids (Y,fig. 386). In its upper portion, the inner border of each restiform body is free, and forms the outer boundary of a lozenge-shaped depression, the fourth ventricle. Whilst the connection of the cerebellum with the pos- terior surface of the medulla oblongata is un- disturbed, the exact relation of these bodies to the ventricle cannot be seen. It is necessary to raise up the inferior portion of the median lobe of the cerebellum, to expose the cavity of the ventricle; or this may be effected by dividing the median lobe along the middle line. Each restiform body ascends to the hemi- sphere of the cerebellum of the correspond- ing side. The whole of its fibres appear to penetrate that organ, and contribute to the formation of its crus, the middle layer or peduncle of which it forms. This is very well shown in the analytical figure at p. . 667, (jig. 380,) where r is the restiform ISk body passing upwards and outwards into '§Sk the hemisphere of the cerebellum. Jjfllljk The distinction between the restiform and $$0} olivary bodies on the surface is indicated iffflllF ky the line of origin of the eighth pair of nerves, which may be said to emerge along the anterior margin of the former. A nar- row band of fibres, very distinct in some brains, occupies the depression between the posterior edge of the prominent olivary body and the line of emergence of these nerves. This band has been well delineated by Rolando, Reid, and others; it probably forms a part of the cerebral fibres of the medulla oblongata, and ascends through the pons. The direction of the fibres of the restiform bodies is longitudinal. Those which are situate most posteriorly pass directly down- wards, and are distinctly continuous with the posterior columns of the spinal cord. Posterior view of the medulla oblongata, with mrsocephale and part of cerebellum of an infant. ( A fter Foville. J S, pineal gland. D, nates. D', testes. -J- +, point of emergence of fourth pair of nerves. Y, posterior pyramids. X, restiform columns. A, F, floor of the fourth ventricle, formed by the olivary The fibres which form the lateral and ante- columns, the fissure between which is the calamus scrip- rior part of the restiform bodies pass dovvn- torius. wards and forwards to the antero-lateral co- Y', posterior surface of mesocephale. lumns. A superficial groove, varying very lrt, valve of Vicussens. much in distinctness in different subjects, N, anterior surface ot crus cerebri. ... j r .u„ r i corpus dentatum or rhomboideum. which passes upwards from the line ot