438 MOTION. the intensity of their action (all other things re- maining the same) must be proportional to their areas respectively. Sometimes the Rays glide sideways, in which motion the pectoral and caudal fins exchange their office, the former striking horizontally, and the latter vertically, the result of which may be obtained by the composition of forces, when their directions and intensities are given. The Rays, being destitute of an air-bladder, require a much greater force in the vertical direction upwards to sustain themselves in swimming; hence the necessity for the power and mobility of the pectoral fins which we find conferred on them. The great lateral development of the surface of the Rays compared with their depth, and the great depth of the Pleuronectides compared with their breadth, entitle the former, rather than the latter, as Mr. Yarrell justly observes, to the appellation ofJlat fish. The first movement of a fish from a state of rest is usually produced by the flexion of its tail, as to a, Jig. 232 ; during this action the centre of gravity (c) recedes slightly from its previous position ; the tail being flexed into the position a, is forcibly extended by the muscles on the opposite side, in the direction of the line a i, perpendicular to its plane. The force of its action upon the water in a i is translated to the body of the fish in i «, causing the centre of gravity c to move obliquely forwards in the direction of c h, parallel to i a. The tail having reached the mesial line c d, its power of urging the centre of gravity forwards not only ceases, but during its flexion in e o, it acts backwards in the direction of o e; having reached the point o, it is again forcibly ex- tended in the line o e, causing an impulse on the centre of gravity in c b, parallel to o e; if the two forces c h and c b acted simulta- neously, we should obtain the resultant cJ\ but as they do not, the point c will not move ex- actly in the right line c f, but in a curved line, which lies evenly be- Fig. 232. tween d c j' and a line drawn parallel to it through The fish being in motion, the tail describes the arc of an ellipse,* whereas if it were stationary, it would describe the arc of a circle. If we sup- pose the force re- sulting from the flex- ion of the tail to be so great as to neutralise the velocity which the centre of gravity had acquired during its extension, the result would be a state of rest whenever the tail reached the points a and o, and a greater force than this would Borclli, loco cit. prop. 24, p. 259. cause it to recede; which,according to Sir John Lubbock,* is the case, although it has never yet been detected in the movements of the living animal. The minute investigation of this sub- ject, however, embraces a very complex ana- lysis.f There are several circumstances which militate against the hypothesis of Sir John Lubbock ; first, the muscles which move the tail are capable of varying its surface during flexion and extension, and of contracting it during the former and expanding it during the latter action, by which the resistance is propor- tionably varied. Secondly, the muscles of the tail incline its plane to the direction of its mo- tion during flexion, and present its plane per- pendicularly to that direction during extension, which causes the effective resistances in the two strokes to be to each other as 1 : s3, where s is the sine of the inclination of the tail to the horizon. Thirdly, according to Dr. Roget, the water having been set in motion during the ex- tension of the tail, in the same direction, offers comparatively but little resistance in flexion ; on the contrary, when the motion of the tail is reversed, the water meeting it in an opposite direction produces a resistance proportional to the sum of the squares of the two velocities. These are so many causes which contribute to diminish the force of the tail during its flexion, without producing a retrograde motion in the fish. The same demonstration serves when the plane of the tail is directed horizontally, as in the Cetacea and Flat Fishes, but the im- pulse given must be estimated in a vertical in- stead of a horizontal plane. The velocity of some fishes is1 very considerable, and often maintained for lengthened periods. According to Lacepede, that of the Salmon is eight metres, or 26-24 feet in a second ; others are said also to travel upwards of sixteen miles in an hour ; the Shark, for instance, will often accompany and gambol around a ship in full sail across the Atlantic. In those fishes which have the great- est velocity the tail is forked, the area is in the inverse ratio of the distance from the centre of gravity; in these the centre of force is one half the distance from the centre of motion. When the tail presents a triangular surface, of which the apex is the centre of motion, the centre of force is three-fourths the distance of its base from the axis of oscillation. With this form of tail the muscles act at a mechanical disadvantage, and consequently the animal moves very slowly. If we consider the density of the medium in which these animals move, the resistance which it opposes to their bodies, and the long periods during which they will continue in progression, we may form some idea of the great energy with which their muscular system is endowed. Aquatic Birds.—In the Aquatic Birds, the thorax and abdominal regions present a form * See Dr. Roget's Bridgewater Treatise, vol. i. p. 369. t See Chabrier, Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. torn. xi. In this paper formulae are given for find- ing the velocity of the centre of the tail and the quantity of action expended in swimming.