819 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 3 c 2 best made by passing a piece of glass tube through a cork tilting accurately into the mouth of the combustion tube and connecting the brass apparatus to this small glass tube by a caoutchouc connector; the limb (6) is fastened by a similar joint to a glass tube (e) bent at right angles near one end, with a straight por- tion upwards of thirty inches long, the other extremity of which is turned up at an acute an- gle for the convenience of safely delivering the gas; the tube is placed in a vertical direction with its lower upturned extremity dipping into a small mercurial trough; the stop-cock tube (r) is connected with an exhausting syringe and a vacuum produced; the apparatus is left for half an hour to ascertain that all the joints are tight: if the mercury after this lapse of time still stands at the same level, the experiment is proceeded with : a moderate heat is applied by a spirit lamp to the end of the retort contain- ing the carbonate ; by this means carbonic acid is set free and displaces the last portions of air; the exhaustion and disengagement of gas are repeated alternately three or four times, taking care to leave sufficient carbonate undecom- posed to renew this expulsive process at the termination of the experiment. The stop-cock (c) is now closed, the air-pump is removed, and a graduated jar containing some solution of potash is inverted in the mercury over the recurved extremity of the long glass tube. The copper turnings are then brought to red- ness in the usual way by charcoal, and the experiment conducted with the customary pre- cautions, the decomposition being caused to take place less rapidly than usual; when the part of the retort containing the matter for analysis is red-hot through its entire extent, heat is gradually applied to the carbonate at the end, and the last portions of gas from the combustion in the apparatus are driven into the receiver by the disengaged carbonic acid. As the products of combustion are only water, carbonic acid, and nitrogen, the two former are retained by the solution of potash, whilst the latter alone presents itself for mea- surement. I need hardly say that the height of the barometer and thermometer must be carefully noticed, when the apparatus by stand- ing for an hour or two has reached the tem- perature of the atmosphere ; as the gas will be saturated with moisture, its volume must be corrected by the known methods for the three points of temperature, pressure, and moisture; then, since 100 cubic inches of nitrogen at standard temperature and pressure weigh 30.15 grs., the weight of the nitrogen that a given quantity of the matter analysed contains is easily determined. In this process, as in every case where the proportion of nitrogen alone forms the object of our experiment, after the weight of the material lor analysis has been once accurately determined, it is evident there is nothing to fear from the absorption of moisture. Occasionally the quantity of nitrogen, where large, is advantageously determined by making the combustion just as though we were going to ascertain the proportion of carbon and hy- drogen; but, instead of condensing the car- bonic acid and weighing it, the whole of the gases produced are collected over mercury. A bent gas-delivering tube is substituted for the usual drying apparatus. (Fig. 431.) In this case it is best to begin at the closed ex- tremity of the tube, and having expelled the atmospheric air by a portion of gas generated from the substance, to collect the rest of the gaseous products in a graduated jar; by agi- tating the gas with solution of potash the pro- portion of nitrogen to carbon is at once deter- mined, as equal volumes of carbonic acid and nitrogen represent single equivalents of carbon and nitrogen. It is not necessary in this case to determine accurately the quantity of mate- rial acted upon. Experience has shewn that in the preceding process for organic analysis the quantity of hydrogen deduced from it is always slightly in excess, usually about 0.2 parts in 100, whilst, unless chromate of lead or chlorate of potash is employed, the carbon is sometimes as much deficient. A deficiency of carbon also occurs if the ash contain carbonates in any form. Oc- casionally sulphur and chlorine are among the constituents of organic bodies; the methods of analysis must then be modified. For details upon these subjects the reader is referred to the treatise of Berzelius. We will suppose the labour of analysis thus brought to a successful issue. It is, however, evident that the information derived from this source alone is but scanty, as we can thereby form no idea either of the number of equiva- lents of each element entering into the com- position of an organic body, or of its relations to the substances concerned in its production or obtainable from it by its decomposition. Whenever it is possible,the equivalent or com- bining proportion of the compound must be determined. This is effected by preparing a compound of the body with some substance, whose equivalent is well known, and proceed- ing to analyse the new product. If our or- ganic substance be soluble in water, and capable of entering into combination with oxide of silver, this oxide is for many reasons preferred. Oxide of silver combines with very many organic bodies, and forms with them compounds insoluble or sparingly soluble in water. They may generally be formed by double decomposition, and washed from all adhering impurities ; fifteen or twenty grains of the silver compound is accurately weighed in a counterpoised porcelain crucible. It is then carefully incinerated till pure silver alone re- mains. On again weighing, the loss will give that of the body combined with the silver, and in addition that of one equivalent of oxygen expelled from the oxide of that metal at a red heat. The residual silver should dissolve without remainder in nitric acid. Now, since the equivalent number of silver on the hydrogen scale is 108, it is evident that by simple calculation we may determine the equi- valent number of the organic body that had combined with it. An example will perhaps elucidate my mean- ing more distinctly.