722a PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. see. After the removal of the deepest layers, the animal lost completely the power of stand- ing, walking, leaping, or Hying. The power had been injured by the previous mutilations, but now it was completely gone. When placed upon his back, he was unable to rise. He did not, however, remain quiet and motionless, as pigeons deprived of the cerebral hemispheres do; but evinced an incessant restlessness, and an inability to accomplish any regular or defi- nite movement. He could see the instrument raised to threaten him with a blow, and would make a thousand contortions to avoid it, but did not escape. Volition and sensation re- mained ; the power of executing movements remained; but that of coordinating those move- ments into regular and combined actions was lost. Animals deprived of the cerebellum are in a condition very similar to that of a drunken man, so far as relates to their power of locomotion. They are unable to produce that combination of action in different sets of muscles which is necessary to enable them to assume or main- tain any attitudes. They cannot stand still for a moment; and, in attempting to walk, their gait is unsteady, they totter from side to side, and their progress is interrupted by frequent falls. The fruitless attempts which they make to stand or walk arc sufficient proof that a cer- tain degree of intelligence remains, and that voluntary power continues to be enjoyed. Rolando had, previously to Flourens, ob- served effects of a similar nature consequent upon mutilation of the cerebellum. In none of his experiments was sensibility affected. The animal could see, but was unable to exe- cute any of the movements necessary for loco- motion. Flourens' experiments have been confirmed by those of Hertwig in every particular, and they have been lately repeated with similar re- sults by Budge and by Longet. The removal of part of the cerebellum appears capable of pro- ducing the same vertiginous affection which has been already noticed in the case of deep injuries to the mesocephale. After the well- known experiments of Magendie, of dividing either crus cerebelli, the animal was seen to roll over on its long axis towards the side on which the injury was inflicted. The effects of injuries to the cerebellum, ac- cording to the reports of the experimenters above referred to, contrast in a very striking manner with those of the much more severe operation of removing the cerebral hemispheres. " Take two pigeons," says M. Longet; " from one remove completely the cerebral lobes, and from the other only half the cerebellum ; the next day, the first will be firm upon his feet, the second will exhibit the unsteady and un- certain gait of drunkenness." Experiment, then, appears strikingly to fa- vour the conclusion which Flourens has drawn, namely, that the cerebellum possesses the power of coordinating the voluntary movements which originate in other parts of the cerebro-spinal centre, whether these movements have reference to locomotion or to other objects. That this power is mental, i. c. dependent on a mental operation for its excitation and ex- ercise, is rendered probable from the experience of our own sensations, and from the fact that the perfection of it requires practice. The vo- luntary movements of a new-born infant, al- though perfectly controllable by the will, are far from being coordinate: they are, on the contrary, remarkable for their vagueness and want of definition. Yet all the parts of the cerebro-spinal centre are well developed, except the cerebellum and the convolutions of the ce- rebrum. Now, the power of coordination im- proves earlier and more rapidly than the intel- lectual faculties; and we find, in accordance with Flourens' theory, that the cerebellum reaches its perfect developement of form and structure at a much earlier period than the hemispheres of the cerebrum. It may be stated as favourable to this view of the mental nature of the power by which vo- luntary movements are coordinated, that, in the first moments of life, provision is made for the perfect performance of all those acts which are of the physical kind. Thus, respiration and deglutition are as perfect in the new-born infant as in the full-grown man ; and the exci- tability of the nervous centres to physical im- pressions is much greater at the early age, partly perhaps in consequence of the little interference which is received at that period, from the will. That the cerebellum is an organ favourably disposed for regulating and coordinating all the voluntary movements of the frame is very apparent from anatomical facts. No other part of the encephalon has such extensive connections with the cerebro-spinal axis. It is connected slightly indeed with the hemispheres of the brain, by the processus cerebelli ad testes, but most extensively with the mesoce- phale, the medulla oblongata, and the spinal cord. Now it is not unworthy of notice tiiat its connection with the brain proper is more immediately with that part, which may be re- garded as the centre of sensation; namely, with the optic thalami. This connection of the cerebellum with the centre of sensation may probably have for its object to bring the mus- cular sense to bear upon the coordination of movements, in which the individual experience of every one shows that that sense must mate- rially assist. The cerebellum is brought into union with each segment of the great nervous centre upon which all the movements and sensations of the body depend; through the restiform bodies it is connected with the medulla oblongata and the spinal cord; by the fibres of the pons with the mesocephale, and thus with the ante- rior pyramids and corpora striata; and through the processus e cerebello ad testes with the optic thalami. What can be the object of these extensive connections? It would be difficult to conceive any function for which so elaborate a provision would be more necessary, than that of regulating and coordinating the infinitely complex movements which the mus- cular system is capable of effecting; more especially when it seems highly probable that the antero-lateral columns of the cord, and the anterior pyramids and olivary columns supply