ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 801 mains, as the phosphate of iron is insoluble in acetic acid. The absence of iron must be determined by dissolving the precipitate in nitric acid, nearly neutralizing with ammonia and adding hydrosulphuret of ammonia; the iron, if present, would fall as a black sulphuret, mixed with oxalate of lime. Oxalate of lime dissolves in dilute nitric acid, and, on super- saturating with ammonia, is thrown down un- changed. By converting the oxalate of lime into the carbonate or sulphate, as directed when speaking of the estimation of lime, the quan- tity of oxalic acid may be inferred—100 grs. of the carbonate indicate of anhydrous oxalic acid 72 grs., and 100 of the sulphate 51.94 of the acid. 2. For the inorganic constituents. To ascertain the nature and proportion of the saline matters incineration is resorted to in the manner already described. This process, however, only tells us what the fixed ingre- dierfts are, and their quantity, in the form of oxides, chlorides, sulphates, phosphates, or carbonates. All the ammoniacal salts are ne- cessarily dissipated, frequently carrying off portions of sulphuric acid and chlorine. The organic acids that may have been combined with the bases are entirely decomposed and their place supplied by carbonic acid, which renders it difficult to decide whether any car- bonate actually existed as such in the com- pound ; and moreover the metals, as iron, cal- cium, and magnesium, with other bodies, as sulphur and phosphorus, are for the most part estimated, not (as is sometimes probable, and at others certain, that they existed) in the me- tallic or unoxidized form, but as oxides or acids. The information we derive from inci- neration is therefore incomplete, and the mere deduction of the weight of ashes from the entire weight of the body burned by no means furnishes us with a correct estimate of the pro- portion of volatile ingredients ; generally speak- ing, however, it is the nearest approximation we can obtain. 1 shall here describe very briefly the means best adapted to the qualitative and quantitative determination of the saline matters, referring those requiring more ample instruction on this subject to Rose's Manual of Analytical Che- mistry, and the various systematic treatises on the science. Although during incineration portions of saline matter, and especially of chlorine, are carried off, and the sulphates are sometimes reduced to sulphurets, we find it the only method by which any thing like an accurate estimate of the inorganic constituents can be obtained, inasmuch as many of these bodies occur in the form of chemical compounds with organic matter, and are thus prevented from forming precipitates with the ordinary re- agents: iron is particularly liable to be thus affected. When practicable, we should usually make an analysis of the solution for the inor- ganic acids before evaporation, and afterwards a second examination of the fixed residue after ignition. The inorganic materials for which we shall VOL. 1 U. have in general to search are comparatively few in number; among the acids, hydro- chloric, sulphuric, phosphoric, and carbonic, with traces of silica, will be those of most fre- quent occurrence. Occasionally vve may have to seek for iodine, fluorine, and unoxidized sulphur. Potash, soda, ammonia, lime, mag- nesia, and oxide of iron, are the bases that will be most frequently the objects of experiment, and now and then we may have to look for copper, lead, and some other metals. Qualitative examination. a. The saline residuum, after ignition, is boiled with a little water (solution A) and fil- tered from the insoluble residue (B). A. b. The solution, except in special cases, will only contain sulphates of potash, soda, lime, and magnesia, as well as chlorides of the same bases, and phosphates and carbonates of potash and soda. When the alkaline carbonates are present, lime and magnesia need not be looked for; nor need vve search for either of these bases if the solution contain phosphates, unless the liquid reddens litmus paper. The liquid is, therefore, in the first place tested with blue and with reddened litmus paper, by which acidity, alkalinity, or neutrality is rendered evident; we then proceed to determine what acids are present. The absence of a precipitate should not be too hastily decided on. As a general rule the tests should be allowed to stand twelve hours before a negative result is recorded. C. A portion of the liquid is acidulated with nitric acid, and to a small quantity of it a drop or two of solution of chloride o f barium added ; a white cloud indicates sulphuric acid. d. Into another portion of the acidulated fluid nitrate of silver is dropped in slight excess; a bluish white flocculent precipitate shews the presence of chlorides. e. The solution (d) is filtered from the chlo- ride of silver, is boiled for a few minutes, then saturated exactly with ammonia. If phosphoric acid be present, a yellow precipitate of phos- phate of silver, very soluble in excess of ammo- nia, is produced. J. A little of the aqueous solution is evapo- rated to dryness, and a drop of nitric acid added to the residue : effervescence indicates carbonic acid, due in all probability to the decomposition of some organic acid by ignition. We have next to test for the bases in solution. g. The liquid is rendered slightly alkaline by ammonia free from carbonate.* A white precipitate shews phosphate of lime or magnesia, or both. h. The filtered liquid is tested by oxalate of ammonia; if lime be still in solution, a white cloud falls. i. The oxalate of lime is separated by filtra- tion and phosphate of soda or ammonia added ; brisk stirring with a glass rod causes a white * The absence of carbonic acid is easily ascer- tained by adding snme lime-water to the solution of ammonia; it ought to remain perfectly transpa- rent; opalescence indicates the existence, of carbo- nic acid. 3 F