PERINEUM. 919 PERICARDIUM.—See Heart. PERINEUM (in Surgical Anatomy).—The perineum (in the general acceptation of that term) is one of the names applied by anatomists to the extensive region which contains the lower part of the rectum intestine, together with a portion of the genito-urinary organs and their appendages, and of which the circumference corresponds in a great measure to the periphery of the inferior aperture of the pelvis ; in the pre- sent article, however, it is intended to describe the perineum in the male subject only, as the parts which it comprises in the female are no- ticed in detail under other headings in this work. The limits which we would assign to this region are sufficiently precise: superiorly, or towards the abdominal cavity, it extends as far as the reflections of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia and the great cul-de-sac of the peri- toneum, including within its precincts the pros- tate gland and the neck of the bladder, together with a part of the inferior surface of that viscus and the vesicular seminales and vasa deferentia; inferiorly, the perineum is quite superficial, being covered by the integuments only ; and it is circumscribed partly by the fixed boundaries of the inferior aperture of the pelvis, and partly by the obturator fascia, an aponeurotic expan- sion which appears to line a portion of the inner surface of" the os innominatum, but is in reality separated from the bone by the obturator internus muscle and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. In describing this complicated region it will be advantageous to consider in the first place the osseous and ligamentous structures which circumscribe the inferior outlet of the pelvis, and to notice in a general manner the course of the rectum and urethra, together with so much of the urinary bladder as is connected with the perineum, for in the sequel it will appear that the rectum and the urethra are the principal elements of the region, and that almost all the other parts contained in it are appendages of either the one or the other, so that by the adop- tion of this method a key to the anatomy of all the subordinate structures will be obtained. The inferior aperture of the male pelvis exa- mined after the removal of the soft parts (the sacro-sciatic ligaments being preserved) is dia- mond-shaped ; it is limited anteriorly by the arch of the pubis, posteriorly by the extremity of the coccyx, and laterally by the rami of the pubis and ischium, the tuberosity of the ischium, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament at each side respectively. It presents three diameters, viz. the antero-posterior, the transverse, and the oblique. The first extends from the coccyx posteriorly to the symphysis pubis in front; the second passes transversely between the tube- rosities of the ischia; and the third stretches from the point midway^between the tuber ischii and the arch of the pubis, to the centre of the great sacro-sciatic ligament of the opposite side. In a well-formed male pelvis these three diame- ters are almost equal, being each of them nearly three and a-half inches in extent; but in conse- quence of the mobility of the coccyx that bone may be moved backwards considerably, and under such circumstances the antero-posterior diameter becomes increased to a corresponding amount. This large space admits of a very natural division into two triangles, one in front, the other posteriorly; the base of each respectively corresponds to the line passing transversely be- tween the tuberosities of the ischia, and the apex of the one is formed by the arch of the pubis, whilst that of the other is qonstituted by the extremity of the coccyx. The anterior triangle is equilateral; its sides are formed by the rami of the ischium and pubis, and are each from three inches to three and a-half inches in length; it contains the urethra and the root of the penis, with their appendages, and may be named the urethral division of the perineum. The posterior triangle is bounded laterally by the great sacro-sciatic ligaments, and in the re- cent state by the edge of the gluteus maximus muscle also. The coccyx usually protrudes forwards so much that the area of the posterior triangle is less than that of the anterior, not- withstanding that the base of each of them is represented by the same line. This posterior triangle contains the anus with the inferior por- tion of the rectum, &c, and is usually called the anal division of the perineum. It should be borne in mind that the measure- ments of the inferior outlet of the pelvis may present considerable variations in different sub- jects, and that the operator may be obliged to modify the length and the direction of his inci- sions in lithotomy to suit such cases. M. Du- puytren, for example, in twenty-three subjects which he examined, found the distance inter- mediate between the tuberosities of the ischia to vary from two inches to three and a-half inches; and M. Velpeau, who measured forty subjects, observed in one case these processes to be but an inch and three quarters asunder, whilst in another they were four inches apart. In order to perform successfully many of the operations in this region the surgeon requires an accurate knowledge of the axes of the pelvis, and to study the modifications which these imaginary lines exhibit in childhood and old age as compared with adult life. In the full- grown male the axis of the superior aperture of the true pelvis takes a direction from the vici- nity of the umbilicus downwards and back- wards to the coccyx, whilst the axis of the infe- rior aperture passes upwards and slightly back- wards through the mid space between the tuberosities of the ischia to the promontory of the sacrum; these two lines intersect each other in the pelvic cavity, forming an angle slightly obtuse and salient posteriorly: the axis of the true pelvis (or in other words a line pass- ing through the centres of the upper and lower apertures respectively) is therefore a curved line concentric with the curvature of the sacrum, and having its concavity directed forwards and downwards towards the symphysis pubis. During childhood the true pelvis is imper- fectly developed ; it has but littla depth, and its