733 NOSE. Fig. 404. Branches of the olfactory and naso-palatine nerves on the septum of tlw nose. branches proceed which again form finer plex- uses. They may be traced nearly to the lower fourth of the septum. The external or labyrinthic branches are rather more numerous and smaller. They diverge and ramify like the preceding, lying in the channels and grooves upon the upper two turbinated bones. They have been traced to the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, but not to its outer concave surface, nor to any part below it; yet the similarity of the structure and arrangement of the inferior turbinated bone and the mucous membrane over it makes it very probable that they ramify on it also. The middle branches are the longest; the posterior ones form curves directed backwards towards the sphenoidal sinuses, but not entering them. At the posterior angle of the middle turbinated bone some of them are described by Mr. Swan* and by Soemmering as anastomosing with a branch from the spheno-palatine ganglion ; but Valentin-f could not find any such communica- tion. A few branches in addition to these are said to be distributed in the membrane covering the cribriform plate itself (Cloquet). How the primitive filaments of the olfactory nerve terminate has not yet been ascertained ; their softness and the density of the tissue in which they lie have hitherto prevented an accu- rate observation of them in this part of their course. Compared with the other nerves the olfactory present many peculiarities of structure and arrangement, especially in the part which is within the skull. 1. They are the softest of the nerves within the skull, possessing only the most delicate neurilema; and a rather less de- gree of this softness is characteristic of their branches, so that their dissection is more diffi- cult than that of any others of equal size. 2. They have grey nervous matter both upon and between their fasciculi, and their bulbs are not * Demonstrations of the Nerves, folio, p. 14, pi. xi. f. 3. f Loc. c. p. 303. like the ganglions of other nerves, but like portions of the brain. 3. They are not, as other nerves, cylindrical, but triangular in one and flat in another part of their course. 4. Their trunks converge, while those of all others diverge from their origins. 5. They lie in deep furrows on the surface of the brain, and they leave the skull by several distinct orifices. In many of these characters they are more like portions of brain than nerves; and, as Valentin observes, there is no other nerve in the adult human body which shows its origin as an immediate prolongation of the central nervous mass so plainly as these do. It was on account of these characters that the olfactory nerves were regarded by the an- cient anatomists as processes of the brain (mamillary or papillary processes), through the central canals in which they supposed that the pituitary humour was carried from the lateral ventricles to the nose, and air was drawn into them by the nostrils. And al- though this notion was derived from dissect- ing the nerves of animals in which the trunks remain hollow, yet their true nature was doubted on the same grounds by many, even after Willis had demonstrated their structure in man.* In accordance with its numerous offices, the nose receives, in addition to these,—the nerves of its peculiar sense,—others for common sen- sation, for the movements of its muscles, and for the government, in some degree at least, of the organic processes which are carried on in it. Its sensitive and organic nerves are de- rived from the internal nasal or ethmoidal branch of the first or ophthalmic division of the fifth, from the naso-palatine and numerous other branches, from the spheno-palatine ganglion, the nasal branches of the Vidian, palatine, anterior dental, and infra-orbital nerves; all of which are described under the title FrrTH pair of nerves. Its motor nerves are supplied by the facial or seventh pair [seventh pair of nerves]. Vessels of the nose.—Its arteries are derived from the ophthalmic, the internal maxillary, and the facial. The ophthalmic artery gives it the anterior ethmoidal, which enters with the ethmoidal nerve, the posterior ethmoidal, and the nasal, which anastomoses near the angle of the eye with the angular branch of the facial artery. From the internal maxillary trunk thenose and the adjacent cavities are supplied through many branches, namely, the alveolar, which sends branches into the antrum, the infra-or- bitar, of which the terminal branches partly supply the skin, the Vidian, anterior palatine, pterygopalatine, and spheno-palatine, each of which, as it passes towards or through the canal after which it is named, sends branches to the mucous membrane of the adjacent part of the nose or of the cavities opening into it. From the facial artery branches are derived both through the superior labial and from the trunk itself. Indeed, the dorsal arteries of the nose may generally be regarded as the termination * See Cloquet, and Metzger, 1. c., and Stengel, Histoire de la Medecinc, iv. p. 69.