72 lx PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the spinal cord and to its intracranial continu- ation, which form a connection with the grey contractions of the larynx, but of which those of the heart are entirely independent. The influence of the stimulus upon the heart is immediate. That of a stimulus applied to the larynx must pass to the medulla oblongata, and be reflected upon the part moved." The details of further experiments next follow. The author refers to the reflex function the power which the hedgehog has of assuming the form and firmness of a ball.( ?) Cases of infants born without Drain or cerebellum are referred to in proof of the existence of reflex actions in the young of the hu- man subject. The experiment of dividing the spinal marrow between the nerves of the superior and inferior extremities is described, to show "two modes of animal life; the first being the assem- blage of the voluntary and respiratory powers with those of the reflex function and irritability; the second, the two latter powers only;" " if the spinal marrow be now destroyed, the irritability alone remains, all the other phenomena having ceased." Dr. Hall next shows that the reflex function ad- mits of exaltation and diminution. Frigs are made tetanic by opium and strychnine, and the tetanus disappears on removing the spinal marrow. On the other hand, a few drops of hydrocyanic acid placed upon the tongue of a frog depress the reflex function ; '■ the contractions which depend on the reflex function are observed to become less and less energetic and excitable, and at length cease alto- gether." Some highly interesting references are made to the light thrown upon the nature of certain diseases by our knowledge of this reflex function. The mor- bid states produced by dentition, epilepsy, asth- ma, tenesmus and strangury, tetanus and hydro- phobia, are the principal diseases mentioned. The rest of the paper consists of inferences from the preceding parts and a recapitulation. Dr. Hall had formed, at this time, no distinct hypothesis respecting any special mechanism for the reflex function. He makes the following remarks, which seem to foreshadow his subsequent hypo- thesis referred to in the text. " It appears pro- bable," he says, " that the facts of this paper may lead to some important additions to our knowledge of anatomy, by inducing an accurate inquiry into the origin, course, connection, and distribution of the subcutaneous, or submucous, and muscular nerves, which constitute the arcs of the reflex function." In reviewing this interesting and important paper, it is impossible not to feel the greatest regret that its author should have done so much injustice to him - self as well as to those who had preceded him, by neglecting to give an exact account of the state of science in reference to this question at the time he wrote. No one who peruses with candour the essay of Prochaska can deny that it contains, with re- gard to the reflex function, everything that Dr. Hall's paper contains, everything which will bear the test of careful analysis, omitting those views which are, indeed, peculiar to Dr. Hall, and which do not appear in this paper, assigning to the cord pow- ers over ingestion, egestion, muscular tone, and irritability, &c. Throughout the whole paper no allusion whatever has been made to Prochaska's essay. The Report of certain members of the In- stitute upon the work of Le Gallois, (both of which Dr. Hall quotes,) makes distinct reference to Pro- chaska's views of the reflection of sensorial impres- sions. It must not, however, be forgotten that Prochaska's views had fallen into oblivion and neglect, and that Dr. Hall revived them, illus- trated them by experiments, and showed their ap- plication to the pathology of the nervous sys- tem. I may add, that nothing would be more excusable than that a physician, working at these matter of the cord. Of these fibres some are afferent or incident, others efferent or re- subjects in 1832, should be ignorant of Prochaska's essay published in 1784, more especially as it was overlooked even by his own countrymen—by such men as Treviranus, Rudolphi, and Muller. Dr. Hall's next publications, as he himself states, (Preface to Memoirs on the Nervous System, 1837,) were a course of lectures, delivered from a printed syllabus in the summer, and repeated in the winter of 1835, of which one was inserted in the Medical Gazette for January, 1836, and the whole in his Lectures on the Nervous System and its Diseases, published in April, 1836. It is in this latter woik that, so far as I have been able to ascertain, Dr. Hall first put forward the hy- pothesis detailed in the text. It is stated, however, not as a hypothesis, but as a discovered fact. Having described two divisions of the nervous system, the first consisting of the cerebrum and cerebellum with sentient nerves, which pursue their course to them, and of motor nerves, which proceed from them either along the base of the brain or along the spinal marrow, and then along every external part of the animal frame, and the second com- prehending the sympathetic, Dr. Hall goes on to say : " To these two subdivisions of the nervous system, I believe a third must be added before our views of that system can be considered as at all complete; it is one which I claim the merit of first pointing out in all its fullness. Suppose the cere- brum and cerebellum, the centre of the first sub- division of the nervous system, and the ganglionic or the second subdivision of this system removed, this remains. It consists of the true spinal marrow, distinguished from the sentient and motor nerves, which run along its course as an axis of excitvr and motor nerves. It is the seat of a peculiar series of physiological phenomena, and of a pe- culiar class of pathological affections." *' In the former are included all (sic) the functions which relate to the immediate acts of ingestion and egestion; in the latter, all spasmodic diseases." (Loc. cit. p. 11.) Further on, in the same work, Dr. Hall gives an analysis of his true spinal or excito-motory sys- tem, which consists, according to his description, of, 1. the Membranes; 2. the True Medulla; 3. the True Spinal Nerves. The principal divisions of the true medulla, he specifies as follows : 1. The Tubercula Quadrigemina, 2. The Medulla Oblongata, 3. The Medulla Spinalis, and especially its 1. Cervical, 2. Dorsal, 3. Lumbar, and 4. Sacral portions.* The reader who has perused with attention the analysis of Prochaska's work given in the text will perceive a striking resemblance between this true Medulla and the Sensorium commune of Prochaska, p. 721e. In this work there is no allusion to the impor- tant essay of Prochaska, although Sir Charles Bell is corrected for attributing the discovery of the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves and on the poitio major of the fifth to Monro in- stead of to Prochaska (p. 17), and two quotations are made from the latter author without specifying the work from which the passages are quoted. In 1837 Dr. Hall published a quarto volume, with the title, " Memoirs on the Nervous System." This consists of a reprint of the paper published in the PhilosophicalTransactions, " On the Keflex Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis;" and also of a paper which was read * An anatomical oversight, as the mcdvlla spi- nalis has no sacral portion.