82 LACRYMAL ORGANS. and from the lower edge of the palpebral ten- don, curving at first downwards and outwards, then upwards and outwards, within the lower eyelid and along the edge of the orbit, extend- ing some way down over the cheek.. The part of the orbicularis more immediately contained within the eyelids, sometimes called the palpe- bral and ciliary portions, in contradistinction to the outermost fibres, which are without the eye- lids, and encircle the base of the orbit, therefore called the orbital portion, consists of pale thin fibres, of which those at the margin of the eye- lids are collected into a considerable fasciculus, having interposed between them and the tarsal cartilage the roots of the cilia. At the outer canthus the upper and lower fibres intercross and adhere to the external palpebral ligament. That many of the fibres of the orbicularis are inserted into and exert their action in a great degree on the skin of the eyelids, may be easily ascertained in the living person, by observing, during the action of closing the eye, the traction of the skin of the eyelids towards the nasal can- thus. By this traction, the skin, especially in the lower eyelid, is very much corrugated. This corrugation of the skin of the lower eyelid by the action of the orbicularis is greatest right over the lower part of the lacrymal sac,—that part which we commonly press upon when we want to evacuate any accumulation of mucus or tears,—that part where abscess of the sac gene- rally bursts and leaves a fistulous opening,— that part which we open in the operation for so- called fistula lacrymalis. This part of the lacrymal sac must therefore be immediately affected by the contraction of the muscle, and the pressure thus produced, together with that on the upper blind end of the sac by the supe- rior fibres, will promote the transmission of the tears and conjunctival mucus into the nasal duct. The great use of the orbicularis palpebrarum is to close the eyelids; but in effecting this it acts at a disadvantage, inasmuch as its action on the eyelids is not direct, but oblique ; there- fore they are brought together only by being drawn horizontally inwards, though it is the lower eyelid alone which yields to this latter movement. We may imitate in some degree the mode of action of the orbicularis, but in an opposite direction, by pressing the skin imme- diately outside the outer canthus, towards the temple. Levator palpebra svperioris muscle.—This is the antagonist of the upper part of the orbicu- laris. It is a weak slender muscle, but then it has the advantage of exerting its action in a di- rect manner. It extends from the bottom of the orbit to the superior tarsal cartilage, lying im- mediately underneath the roof of the orbit. It is the longest of all the muscles of the orbit. Thin and triangular, it rises by its apex, which is a short tendon, from the upper edge of the optic foramen. The fleshy body of the muscle gradually increases in breadth as it proceeds forwards; then bending downwards over the eyeball, its insertion takes place by a broad thin tendinous expansion, the base of the triangle, into the upper margin and anterior surface of the superior tarsal cartilage, being incorporated at the same time with the so-called tarsal liga- ment. It is by the action of this muscle that the upper eyelid is drawn up and retracted within the orbit. Having thus described the skeleton and mus- cles of the eyelids, it remains to consider their investments and appendages. The investment of their inner surface, the palpebral conjunctiva, will be described farther on, along with the rest of the conjunctiva. The skin of the eyelids lies over the fibres of the orbicularis „palpebra- rum. It is very fine and destitute of hairs, but contains minute sebaceous follicles. The latter are sometimes, especially in. the lower eyelid, enlarged, and give out a morbid secretion, which is hard, and forms those horny excrescences occasionally met with in old persons. Cellular tissue of the eyelids.—The conjunc- tiva investing the inner surface of the tarsal car- tilages adheres without the intermedium of any cellular tissue. The connection between the two structures is immediate and intimate, as in the compound membranes called fibro-mucous. The rest of the palpebral conjunctiva adheres by cellular tissue. The palpebral and ciliary portions of the orbicularis muscle are connected on the one hand to the tarsal cartilages and other subjacent parts,, and on the other to the superjacent skin, by a laminar cellular tissue, which, like that in some other parts of the body, is not combined with the adipose tissue. Being rather loose, the cellular tissue of the eyelids becomes readily infiltrated by effused fluids, as in adema and emphysema. It is not unfrequently the seat of abscess. Roots of the eyelashes. From the anterior edge of the free margins of the eyelids, the eyelashes spring. They are inserted three or four deep, especially in the middle. The cap- sules of the bulbs of the eyelashes lie close on the tarsal cartilage under the ciliaris muscle and skin, extending to the depth of about one- eighth of an inch. One of the operations for trichiasis is to extirpate the roots of the eye- lashes, but it is very difficult to remove them all, the oozing of blood is generally so great. When the part has healed after the operation, and the case seems doing well, a hair or two will often be found here and there sprouting out again. Connected with the roots of the eyelashes, as with other hairs, are small sebaceous glands, consisting of minute but distinct lobules or grains closely surrounding the capsule, into which they send one or more excretory ducts.* Meibomian glands. Glandula Meibo- miana s. palpebrarum sebacea ; — Fr. Les glandes de Meibom ;—Ital. Le glandule Mei- bomiane; -Germ. Die Meibomschen Dr'usen. * Gurlt, Vergleichende Untersuchungen uber die Haut des Menschen und der Haussaugethiere, besonders in Beziehungauf die Absonderungsorgane des Haut-talges und des Schweisses. In Muller's Archiv, 1835, p. 399. t Zeiss. Fortgesetzte Untersuchungen uber die Anatomie und Pathologie der Augenlider von Dr. E. Zeiss in Dresden. In Ammon's Zeitschrift, &c. B. 5, p. 216.