412 MOTION. From this table it appears conclusive that no muscular force is employed or required to pro- pel the leg forwards after it has been raised and bent by the flexor muscles, and that the force of the earth's gravity alone on the leg is suffi- cient to accomplish that purpose. The diffe- rence found between the oscillation of the legs in the living and the dead body is very small, and is attributed by those authors to the elas- ticity of the ligaments connecting the leg to the trunk, and some trifling differences in the length of the legs, but decidedly not to muscu- lar action. An application of the principles of the pendulum to the legs of animals mov- ing in a vertical plane shows that the durations of their periodic oscillations must be respec- tively as the square roots of their lengths,* estimated by the distance of the centre of oscillation ; or the time of a complete oscillation of any leg from behind forwards when in- fluenced only by gravity is to the time in which a heavy body would fall through half the length of the leg, considered as a com- pound pendulum, as the circumference of a circle is to its diameter. It further results from the periodic move- ments of the legs being subordinate to the force of gravity, that the same individual would necessarily walk slower as he ap- proached the equator, and quicker as he ap- proached the poles, all other circumstances being equal. For example, let us suppose any two persons to be walking in different latitudes, whose legs are of unequal length, and acted on by unequal gravitating forces, then by the theory of the pendulum the time of the swinging forward of their legs respectively will be as the square roots of their lengths directly and as the square roots of the gravitating forces in those latitudes inversely.f Mechanical effects of fluids on animals im- mersed in them.—When a body is immersed in any fluid whatever, it will lose as much of its weight relatively as is equal to the weight of the fluid it displaces. In order to ascertain whether an animal will sink or swim, or be sus- tained without the aid of muscular force, or to estimate the amount of force required that the animal may either sink or float in water, or fly in the air, it will be necessary to have recourse to the specific gravities both of the animal and of the fluid in which it is placed. The specific gravities or comparative weights of different substances are the respective weights * Let I and I' equal the lengths of any two pendulums, 11' the times of vibrations, g the force of gravity, it to i the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter, then .-. t : t' : : s/l : J V (5.) t For as t = w /\J~' anc^ — * \/~r' hence t : t' : : A / — : \ I — (6.) of equal volumes of those substances* When any solid body is immersed in a fluid and left to itself, it will sink if its specific gravity is greater than that of the fluid; but if its specific gravity be less than that of the fluid, it will rise to the surface and be sustained there; and when the specific gravity of the solid and fluid are equal, the body will remain stationary wherever it is placed. When the weight of any body taken in a fluid is subtracted from its weight out of the fluid, the difference is the weight of a volume of the fluid equal to that of the solid; this is to its weight in air, as the specific gravity of the fluid to that of the solid; so that generally the specific gravities of solid bodies are as their weights in the air directly, and their losses in water or any other fluid inversely.f The specific gravity of air, water, and mer- cury, when the barometer stands at 30 in. and the thermometer at 55°, being to each other as If, 1000, 13600, it results that all those ani- mals whose specific gravities approximate to that of water are nearly 1000 times heavier than air, and more than thirteen times lighter than mercury, and consequently animals that would sink and perish in water could walk on the surface of mercury. The human body in a healthy state, with the chest filled with air, is specifically lighter than water, and its sinking generally depends upon the air in the lungs escaping under the pressure of water upon its immersion. Dr. Ainott remarks that if this truth were generally and familiarly understood, it would lead to the saving of more lives than all the mechanical life-preservers which man's ingenuity will ever contrive. Atmospheric pressure produces a great va- riety of mechanical effects on animal structures. If we estimate the surface of a man to be equal to 2000 square inches, the pressure of the atmo- sphere on his body with the barometer at 30 in. will amount to 30,000lbs., or about 15 tons; when the barometer falls from 30 to 27 inches, the pressure is reduced from 15 to \Z\ tons ; we need not, therefore, be surprised that variations of atmospheric pressure should be attended with corresponding sensations in living animals. The pressure of the atmosphere enables some animals (as we shall subsequently prove) to fix themselves to rocks with great force, to walk up the surfaces of glass windows, to sustain themselves in an inverted position on the * If W, w are the weights of two substances, V, d their volumes, S, s their specific gravities, then S : s : : — : V v t Let W — the weight of the body in air, W' — its weight in water or any other fluid, S — the specific gravity of the solid, s — the specific gra- vity of the fluid, then we shall have the following proportions ; W — W': W : : « S: hence and W —W' S = w w w — w (7-) (8)