PENIS. 915 meatus; it terminates by several ramified ducts iii the submucous tissue of the canal. The mucous membrane of the urethra is separated from the tissue of the corpus spongiosum by a moderately thick fibrous layer, which is conti- nuous with the external tunic of the spongy body. Sir Everard Home conceived that the exter- nal tunic of the canal of the spongy portion of the urethra was muscular, and states with re- gard to it: " the muscular covering by which the membrane is surrounded or enclosed is made up of fasciculi of very short fibres, which appear interwoven together and to be connected by their origins and insertions with one another; they have all a longitudinal direction." " The fasciculi are united together by an elastic sub- stance of the consistence of mucus." Sir E. Home is mistaken with regard to the muscu- larity of the external tunic of the spongy urethra, but his description, as it relates to the disposi- tion of the fibrous tissue, is correct. Indeed it is evident that it is to this tissue that Sir E. Home alludes, from a subsequent passage in his essay, wherein he identifies his muscular coat with the fibrous lining of the canal of the corpus spongiosum. Thus he writes : " Im- mediately beneath the muscular portion of the urethra is the cellular structure of the corpus spongiosum." And this inference is still fur- ther corroborated by his belief that the external fibrous tunic of the corpus cavernosum has also " an admixture of muscular fibres." The muscles of the penis are, the erectores penis, acceleratores urinje, ischio-bulbosi, and compressores venae dorsalis. The erector penis (m. ischio-cavernosus) is the muscle of the corpus cavernosum. It arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior part of the tuber ischii, from the internal border of the ramus of the ischium, and from the root of the crus penis ; it then curves in an oblique direc- tion around the corpus cavernosum, and termi- nates partly by becoming inserted into the side of that body, and partly by a tendinous apo- neurosis, which is continuous with a similar aponeurosis derived from the opposite muscle. In the first part of its course the muscle is ten- dinous; where it is spread out on the crus penis and corpus cavernosum it forms a thin fleshy layer, which is prolonged for about one- third along the penis, while in the rest of its extent it is again tendinous, and constitutes the thin aponeurosis above described. The erector penis appears to effect its action as an erector by compressing the crura and vena dorsalis, and is aided in this office by the connection of its aponeurosis by means of the suspensory ligament with the symphysis pubis. When called into exercise both muscles act together, and by their united action embrace the root of the penis, and strongly compress it. The effect of pressure on the vena dorsalis must obviously be to impede the return of the venous blood from the penis, and the compression of the crura produces the same result on the veins of the corpus cavernosum. The acceleratores urlna. (m. bulbo-caverno- sus) are the muscles of the corpus spongiosum ; they are situated on the posterior third of that body, and form a thin muscular plane which surrounds its cylinder, and is spread out upon the under surface of the bulb. Each muscle arises from the posterior border of the deep perineal fascia at the middle line, and from a median raphe which is closely adherent to the under surface of the bulb and corpus spongio- sum, and which connects it with its fellow of the opposite side. From this extensive origin the fibres of the muscle pass obliquely out- wards and forwards, the most posterior to be inserted into the ramus of the ischium and pubis, the middle and most numerous to en- circle the corpus spongiosum, and uniting by tendinous fibres with the muscle of the opposite side upon the upper surface of that body, to be inserted into the inferior groove of the corpus cavernosum ; and the anterior forming a narrow fasciculus to pass outwards upon the corpus cavernosum and be inserted into its fibrous tunic and into the fascia penis. The posterior fibres are almost transverse in their direction, and cross the triangular interval between the bulb and crus penis, being separated from the deep perineal fascia by the superficial perineal vessels and nerve, and by the ischio-bulbosus muscle when it exists. The acceleratores are well calculated to con- tract forcibly the canal of the urethra, and thus to communicate an expulsive impetus to the stream of urine or seminal secretion passing along the tube. The expulsive action of these muscles is made sensible to the hand when we withdraw a catheter; and the strength of its gripe, when the catheter has been lodged in the bladder. Indeed their complete contraction constitutes an impassable though temporary obstruction to the passage of the catheter along the urethra, and gives rise to that form of impediment which is known by the name of spasmodic stricture. The contraction of these muscles, moreover, acting suddenly on the urethra, serves to expel the last portions of urine and seminal secretion. Besides the in- fluence which they exert on the urethra, the acceleratores urinae also enact the part of erec- tors of the penis, by producing so much pressure on the bulb and posterior part of the corpus spongiosum as may impede the return of blood through the venaa corporis spongiosi, and at the same time press forwards the contents of the venous plexus of the bulb into the anterior part of the corpus spongiosum and glans penis; and their action in this respect is increased by the tension made by their anterior fasciculi on the fascia penis, and through it on the vena dorsalis. The ischio-bulbosus (m. trans versus perinei alter; m. transversus perinei profundus) is a small fan-shaped muscle situated in the trian- gular interspace between the bulb of the urethra and crus penis, and is not unfrequently want- ing. It arises by a pointed origin from the ramus of the ischium, and passing obliquely inwards across the triangular space above des- cribed, spreads out into a thin fan-shaped plane, and is inserted into the fibrous tunic of the bulb. On one occasion I found this muscle 3 K 2