(Comparative Anatomy.) 604 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Second in importance is the branchial gan- glion. In those Conchifers in which the two branchiae are conjoined, the ganglion continues single; where they are separate, it becomes sub- divided. From this ganglion or these gan- glia nerves are derived to the branchiae and to the respiratory siphons, when present, to the posterior parts of the viscera, and to the posterior adductor muscle, also to the mantle. Fig. 337. Nervous system of the Oyster, ( Ostrea). a, a, anterior ganglions, b, posterior ganglion, c, c, branches to branchia. d, d, connecting trunks, e, transverse branch uniting anterior ganglia. In the oyster (fig. 337), the cockle (Car- dium), and many others, the branchiae are united, and there is consequently but one bran- chial ganglion. In the mussel (Mytilm), in the scallop (Pecten) (Jig. 338),&c. the branchiae are sepa- rated and the ganglion is divided into two; their connection, however, is maintained by a commissural band. The branchial ganglia or ganglion are also united to the anterior or oesophageal ones. Fig. 338. Nervous system of Pecten (Scallop). a, anterior ganglia. b, branchial ganglion, c, pedal ganglion, d, oesophagus. A third ganglion, the pedal, is not deve- loped in all the genera ; and this circumstance, as well as its position and the distribution of its nerves, throws much light upon its function. It is immediately connected with the oesopha- geal ganglia by two nerves; it is always deve- loped in the substance of the foot, generally at its base, and its size is always proportioned to the power and dimensions of that organ. In the genus Ostracea it is entirely absent; for the foot is wanting, and whatever locomo- tive power is enjoyed by these animals is per- formed by the rapid closure of their shells through the action of the adductor muscle. The arrangement of the nervous system in Conchifera is of the highest physiological in- terest. It affords a beautiful example of a complete analysis of the more complicated nervous system of the vertebrata. We have here an anterior pair of ganglia, from which filaments proceed to all parts of the body, associated too with the ingestive faculty; they are connected with whatever degree of psychi- cal endowment the animal possesses and form its sensorium commune; they are the source of its voluntary actions. The respiratory or- gans likewise have their special centre in the branchial ganglion or ganglions, the develop- ment of which is always proportioned to that of the branchiae. And there is a special centre provided for the locomotive organ, too, whose development is strictly in relation with its size and activity, and which is absent when that organ does not exist. And it must be observed that these special ganglia (respiratory and pedal), although unconnected with each other, com- municate with the oesophageal ganglia. Have we not here distinctly marked out the cerebrum (the centre of volition and sensation), the medulla oblongata (the respiratory centre), and the cerebellum (locomotive centre), as they occur in the higher vertebrata ? And in the aggregate of the chords by which the oesophageal ganglia communicate with the pedal and branchial ones, do we not see the analogue of at least a portion of the spinal cord, that portion which consists of afferent and efferent nerves to and from the brain ? The nervous system is distinctly adapted to the wants of the animals and their limited psychi- cal endowment, and the same law prevails throughout the scale of animals. It is not the nervous system which developes the powers and instincts of the animal; on the contrary, these latter determine the development of the nervous system. This is well illustrated by a comparison of the oyster and the mussel. These moliusks differ only in a greater loco- motive power belonging to the mussel, to effect which it possesses an organ called the foot; the oyster is devoid of such an organ. The mussel has an additional ganglion (the pedal) which the oyster has not, and this ganglion is not an isolated centre, but, like the branchial ganglion, is connected by distinct filaments with the anterior or cerebral ganglia. A large series of careful dissections of the nervous system of these and other Invertebrata well displayed is a great desideratum in our public museums. We are happy to perceive that this want is likely to be supplied by the