MARSUPIALIA. Skelete der Beutelthiere; a small proportion of their bony circumference is due to the anterior- extremity of the palatal process of the maxil- lary : the same structure obtains in the Wom- bat, Koala, and Opossums. In the Dasyures and Phalangers a greater proportion of the posterior boundary of the incisive or anterior palatal foramina is formed by the maxillaries; in the Petaurists they are entirely surrounded by the maxillary bones, while in the Perameles they are, on the contrary, entirely included in the intermaxillaries. They always present the form of two longitudinal fissures : the Myrme- cobius agrees with the other Marsupials in this structure. The superior maxillary bone in the Wom- bat sends upwards a long, narrow, irregular nasal process, which joins the frontal and nasal bones, separating them from the inter- maxillaries; the part of the maxillary bone which projects into the temporal fossa behind the orbit presents two or three smooth tuberosi- ties, formed by the thin plate of bone covering the pulps of the large curved posterior grinders. The corresponding part in the Perameles lagotis is perforated by numerous minute apertures like a cribriform plate, and this structure is presented in a slighter degree in the Potoroos and Ursine Dasyure. The antorbital foramen does not present any marked variety of size, which is generally moderate. It is much closer to the orbit in the carnivorous Marsu- pialia than in the corresponding placental quadrupeds. It is relatively largest in the Ursine Dasyure. It presents the form of a vertical oblique fissure in the Wombat. I have observed it double in the Kangaroo. The chief differences in the maxillary bones, indepen- dently of the teeth and their alveoli, are pre- sented by the palatal processes, the modifica- tions of which we shall consider in conjunction with those presented by the palatal processes of the palatal bones. The perforations and vacuities of the bony palate deserve, indeed, particular attention, as they are often specific and of consequence in the determination both of recent and fossil species. In Phahmgista Cookii, in Petaurus Jlaviven- ter, and Ptlaurus sciureus, in Macropits major, and some other great Kangaroos the bony palate is of great extent and presents a smooth surface, concave in every direction towards the mouth ; it is pierced by the two posterior palatine foramina at the anterior external angles of the palatine bones, either within or close to the transverse palato-maxillary sutures. Behind these foramina, in the Kangaroo, there are a few small irregular perforations. The bony palate is similarly entire in the Hypsiprymnus ursinus. In Macropus Benneltii there are four orifices at the posterior part of the bony palate. The two anterior ones are situated upon the palato-maxillary suture, and are of an ovate form with the small end forwards. The two posterior foramina are of a less regular form and smaller size. In the Brush Kangaroo (Macropus Brunii, Cuv.) the posterior palatal foramina present the form of two large fissures placed obliquely and converging posteriorly. vol. nr. They encroach upon the posterior borders of the maxillary plate. Anterior to these vacancies there are two smaller foramina, and posterior to them are one or two similar foramina. In the Australian Potoroos, Wombat, and Koala, the posterior palatal openings are large, and oval, and situated entirely in the palatal bones. In Hyps, setosus they extend as far for- wards as the interspace between the first and second true molars; in Hyps, murinus they reach to that between the second and third true molars. Posterior and external to these large vacuities there are two small perforations. In the Phalangers, with the exception of Ph. Cookii, the palatal openings are proportionally larger; they extend into the palatal process of the maxillaries, and the thin bridge of bone which divides the openings in the Potoroo, &c, is wanting; the two perforations at the pos- terior external angles of the palatine bones are also present. In the Virginian Opossum the bony palate presents eight distinct perforations, besides the incisive foramina; the palatal pro- cesses of the palatine bone extend as far for- wards in the median line as the third molars : a long and narrow fissure extends for an equal distance (three lines) into the palatal processes both of the palatines and maxillaries : behind these fissures and nearer the median line are two smaller oblong fissures; external and a little posterior to these are two similar fissures, situated in the palato-maxillary suture; lastly, there are two round perforations close to the posterior margin of the bony palate. In the Ursine Dasyure a large transversely oblong aperture is situated at the posterior part of the palatal processes of the maxillary bones, and encroaches a little upon the palatines ; this aperture is partly,* perhaps in young skulls wholly, bisected by a narrow longitu- dinal osseous bridge. In Mauge's Dasyure there are two large ovate apertures crossing the palato- maxillary sutures separated from each other by a broad plate of bone; posterior to these are two apertures of similar size and form, which, being situated nearer the mesial line, are divided by a narrower osseous bridge; each posterior external angle of the bony palate is also perforated by an oval aperture. In the Viverrine Dasyure the two vacancies which cross the palato-maxillary suture are in the form of longitudinal fissures, corresponding to the fourth and fifth grinders; the posterior margin of the bony palate has four small aper- tures on the same transverse line. Now there is no carnivorous quadruped in the placental series which has a bony palate cha- racterized by perforations and vacuities of this kind. In the Dog, the Cat, and the Weasel-tribe the bony palate is only perforated by two small oblique canals which open in or near the palato-maxillary suture. The very great in- terest which is attached to the fossil remains of the Stonesfield Marsupials, the only mammi- * The large aperture in the skull of the Da- si/ums ursinus figured by Temminck is the result of accidental injury to the bony palate. Mono- graphics de Mammalogie, pi. viii. T