721n PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. posture through the influence of the spinal cord, but, immediately this organ has been removed, the limbs fall apart from the loss of the controlling and co-ordinating influence of the nervous centres. And careful examination of the muscles m such a case as this will show that the molecular phenomena which charac- terise passive contraction continue in the mus- cular fibres. The state of rigor mortis, which is analogous to that of tone, comes on just as readily in animals which have been deprived of the brain and spinal cord, as in those in which these centres have been undisturbed before death. In short, healthy nutrition sup- plies all the conditions necessary for the main- tenance of tone or passive contraction ; nor is the spinal cord (although itself healthy) able to preserve the tense condition of the muscles, if they are not well nourished. These remarks apply equally to Dr. Hall's doctrine, that the spinal cord is a direct source of irritability to the muscular system. The same arguments which prove that tone is not derived from it are of equal weight with refe- rence to irritability. It cannot be admitted as an argument in favour of the view which derives muscular irri- tability from the spinal cord, that muscles lose their firmness and waste, when they have been for some time separated from their proper ner- vous connections. They suffer, in this way, merely for want of a proper amount of exercise, which they cannot obtain in consequence of the influence of the will being cut off from the limb. If, however, the paralysed limb be ex- ercised artificially, as by the galvanic current, their nutrition and their plumpness may be preserved. For this important observation we are indebted to Dr. John Reid, who likewise called attention to the confirmatory fact, that, in those palsies with which there is combined more or less of irritation of the nervous centre, the muscles do not suffer so much in their nutrition, in consequence of the exercise they undergo in the startings so frequently excited in them by the central irritation. This is not unfrequently seen in cases of paraplegia from irritant disease of the spinal cord. The supposition that the spinal cord might be the source of irritability to the muscles led Dr. Hall to the very extraordinary inference, that in hemiplegic paralysis, in which the in- fluence of the brain is cut ofT from certain muscles, while that of the cord remained, the irritability of those muscles becomes augmented. He arrives at this conclusion by the following line of argument: assuming the cord to be the source of the irritability of the muscles, the brain may then evidently be looked upon as the exhauster of that irritability in the volun- tary actions; if, then, the influence of the brain be cut off, it naturally follows that, as the great agent of exhaustion has lost its power, the irritability, which is ever, as it were, flow- ing from the cord, will accumulate in the muscles. From numerous experiments 1 am enabled to state that in nearly all the cases of hemiplegic paralysis from cerebral lesion there is no evidence of any augmentation of the irritability of the muscles of the palsied limbs. If the readiness with which they will respond to the galvanic stimulus be taken as a test, it may on the other hand be stated very confidently that there is evidence of the di- minution of the irritability of the paralysed muscles, for in nearly all these cases the same current being passed through both sound and palsied limbs at the same time, the latter have contracted either not at all or with very little power as compared with the healthy limbs. But there are exceptions to this: in some cases (and only in those in which there is more or less rigidity of the paralysed muscles) these muscles respond to the galvanic stimulus with more force and readiness than the sound ones. In these cases the palsied muscles are kept in a state of excitement by some irritant disease within the cranium, and this constant condition of more or less active contraction augments the nutrition, and therefore the irri- tability of the muscles. It seems, however, most probable that in all the cases of paralysis, the excitability of the muscles to the galvanic stimulus is dependent not so much upon any change in the condition of the muscles themselves as upon the state of the nerves. If the nervous force in the nerves on the palsied side be depressed, the galvanic stimulus will produce little or no effect upon the muscles of that side, whilst those of the other side will be distinctly excited: but should the nerves participate in any excitement propa- gated to them from disease within the cranium, as in red softening, or an irritating tumor, or a contracting cyst, they will then respond to the galvanic current more readily than those of the opposite side.* I have thus endeavoured to show that the spinal cord is a centre of nervous actions, men- tal and physical) to allparts which derive, nerves J'rom it, the mental actions, however, requiring its association with the brain. Whatever phy- sical nervous actions occur in parts whose nerves are spinal, must be referred to the cord alone; and whatever mental nervous actions occur through the agency of spinal nerves must be referred to the cord in conjunction with the brain. Of the office of the columns of the cord.—I shall now inquire whether the parts into which the anatomist can divide the spinal cord have special functions. These parts are, on each side of the median plane, an antero-lateral co- lumn and a posterior column. It has been a very prevalent opinion that the antero-lateral column corresponds in function with the ante- rior roots of the spinal nerves, and that the pos- terior column corresponds with the posterior roots. This doctrine might have had a good foundation if it could be proved that the posterior or sensitive roots were implanted solely in the * I have discussed this subject more at large in a paper presented to the Royal Mcdico-Chiiurgical Society in June last, and which will appear in the forthcoming volume of its Transactions. August, 1847.