722u PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. caused giddiness, fainting, and convulsive movements. The patient loses sight and hear- ing of the right side, experiences acute pain in the course of the dorsal spine, and tingling in the testes, which in fifteen days were reduced to the size of a bean. The patient dies of tetanus, with loss of the functions of sight, bearing, and generation.* On dissection there was great loss of substance at the occiput, the 'medulla oblongata and upper part of the spinal cord were of dull white, of firmer consistence, and reduced in size one-fourth. The nerves arising from these parts were likewise wasted, c. A cbasseur received a sabre cut, which di- vided the skin and external protuberance of the occipital bone, and the extensor muscles of the head as low down as the sixth vertebra. This man gets well, but Larrey states that he de- clares " that he has been deprived of his gene- rative powers ever since that wound." 4. Gall caused rabbits to be castrated, some on the right side and others on the left. Having had them killed six or eight months afterwards, he finds diminution of the cerebellar lobe oppo- site the removed testicle, and flattening of the corresponding occipital swelling. Vimont, however, found no diminution of the opposite lobe of the cerebellum in four rabbits on which castration had been effected on one side, and which had been kept eight months; but in four other rabbits, similarly treated, but kept eighteen months, a very perceptible diminution in the opposite lobe of the cerebellum was found.f The results of mutilation of the generative organs, as obtained by the researches of M. Leuret, are far from being favourable to Gall's theory. M. Leuret took the weight of the cerebellum both absolutely, and, as compared with that of the cerebrum, in ten stallions, twelve mares, and twenty-one geldings. The following table shows the results of the abso- lute weights. Average. Highest. Lowest. Stallions.. 61 .. 65 .. 56 Mares 61 .. 66 .. 58 Geldings.. 70 .. 76 .. 64 Thus the remarkable result is obtained, that castration tends to augment the weight of the cerebellum, and not to reduce it, as Gall and his followers affirm. What is further very remarkable in these re- searches is that the cerebrum in geldings is on the average less in weight than that in stallions; and the fact gives great confirmation to the results of weighing the cerebella, rendering it in the highest degree improbable that the excess of weight in the cerebellum was accidental. The general expression of the facts obtained by Leuret is this, that in horses, mutilated as regards the principal generative organs, the cerebellum is heavier than in horses and mares not mutilated in the generative organ; and he compared twenty-one of the former with twenty- two of the latter. B I apprehend the loss of the generative function is not uncommon in tetanus! f Quoted from Mr. Noble on the brain. Compare these observations with those above quoted from Gall by Mr. Noble, a most ardent phrenologist, and I think most unprejudiced persons will admit that in the number of ob- servations, in the exactness with which those observations were conducted, and in their free- dom from sources of fallacy, the researches of M. Leuret have greatly the advantage over those upon which Gall rests his conclusion. Yet Mr. Noble, while he unhesitatingly accepts the few and very feeble instances quoted and adopted by Gall, is at great pains to depreciate these observations of Leuret; first, because they are not sufficiently numerous; secondly, because Mr. Parchappe found that, in comparing the cerebra and cerebella of a certain number of mad men and women with those of sane men and women, a very slight advantage existed in favour of the former; and, thirdly, because the author of the observations is an opponent of phrenology. I must say, however, upon this point, that, while I do not reckon myself among the op- ponents to phrenology, but rather among those who are anxiously looking for and desirous of promoting a truly scientific phrenology,* I can- not but regard the facts brought forward by M. Leuret as of the greatest interest and im- portance, and not to be affected by any such arguments as those of Mr. Noble; nor are they to be met at all, save by similar weighings, in the same, or still better, in double the number of animals. The last point to be noticed with regard to Gall's theory of the office of the cerebellum is that it certainly derives no support from patho- logical observations. The few cases quoted by Gall, in which the injury in the neighbour- hood of the cerebellum seemed to affect sexual instinct are far from being conclusive, for they might apply equally, if it were assumed that the seat of the instinct were in the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, in the medulla ob- longata, or in the spinal cord. Indeed Baron Larrey's second case is much more favourable to the localization of the generative impulse in the centre of emotions, than in the cerebellum. For the latter organ was free from disease, whilst the medulla oblongata was indurated. And, further, the assumed connection between * The following passage from Dr. Holland's valu- able " Medical Notes and Reflections " expresses so well the true position of phrenology, that I am glad to quote it as an excellent expression of my own creed relative to this point. " In the present state of our knowledge of the brain," says Dr. Hol- land, " and of its relation to the mental functions, an impartial view of phrenology requires, not that the doctrine should be put aside altogether, but that great abatement should be made of its preten- sions as a system. To say the least, it is chargeable with what Lord Bacon has called ' an over-early and peremptory reduction into acts and methods,' and with the adoption of various conclusions not warranted by any sufficient evidence. Hut on a subject thus obscure in all its parts, and where our actual knowledge is still limited to detached facts or presumptions, there is enough to justify the opinion being kept before us, as one of the outlines to which future observations may apply; not fettered, as they now are, by the trammels of a premature arrangement." P. 517.