942 PERITONEUM. selves, by using great care in manipulation, that it is not the result of violence; it exists also in the mesenteries of some animals. The arteries that ramify in the great omen- tum are branches of the gastro-epiploica dextra and sinistra, and some anastomosing ones from the colica media which pass round the colon and enter the omentum on the side of the in- testine opposite to that on which the artery reaches it. Veins and doubtless nerves accom- pany these arteries, and there are some lym- phatic glands enclosed between the layers of the great omentum along the greater curvature of the stomach. The use of the great omentum has never been satisfactorily pointed out. It is peculiar to, and universal in, the class Mammalia, and therefore always co-exists with a diaphragm; probably it has some reference to the incessant motion and constantly recurring compression to which the intestines are subject from the action of that muscle in respiration. It is frequently seen dipping very deeply between the convo- lutions of the intestines, and occupying their interspaces as a moveable packing material, as if thereby enabling them to retain their cylindrical form whilst subject to incessant disturbance. The great omentum, being continuous as one sheet with the splenic omentum, may be re- garded as a great pouch or widening of the mesentery of the stomach. In those animals, such as the Carnivora, which have a very short colon, the great omentum does not extend from the stomach to the colon, but from the stomach to the pancreas, or to a transverse line of attach- ment corresponding in position with that of the transverse part of the duodenum in the human subject. The large intestine in these animals crosses over the small intestine at a point very near the termination of the latter in the ccecum, that is to say, over the lower part of the ileum, where it usually has a proper mesentery.* The annexed drawing represents the abdo- minal viscera of a lizard. There is a prepa- ration, showing the same parts of a lizard, in the Huntenan collection, (No. 444 D, Phy- siological Series.) The whole of the intestines of this animal, from the oesophagus to the rectum, are connected to the posterior abdo- minal parietes by one continuous mesentery attached along the mesial line. In the sheet situated anterior to the stomach, connecting that organ to the liver and enclosing the gall- duct in its free edge, we recognise the lesser omentum in what we heretofore considered its typical position. In that part of the mesentery which connects the upper part of the stomach to the posterior parietes we recognise the sple- netic omentum ; the spleen is seen enclosed between its layers—apparently a large mesen- teric gland. That part of the common mesen- tery which, immediately succeeding the last mentioned, connects the middle and lower part of the stomach to the parietes, we cannot help regarding as the great omentum (the pancreas * In some Carnivora, as the cat, the large intes- tine cannot be said fairly to pass over the small in- testine at all. -FiV. 491. Abdominal viscera of a Lizard. a, stomach ; b, liver; c, lesser omentum; d, gall- duct ; e, duodenum ; f, pancreas ; g, great omen- tum ; h, spleen; i, coecum; h, ovary and kidney; /, lung. is just below this). Now pouch out this part towards the left, and a great omentum, such as is found in the Carnivora, is produced, with the same relation of other parts, except in the obli- quity of the parietal attachment in the last- named animals, which is but slight. We have but to enclose the transverse colon between the layers of this sac, to obliterate that portion of the mesentery which is connected to the pan- creas and duodenum, and to carry the trans- verse portion of the latter across just in the line of parietal attachment, in order to produce the condition of the parts which exists in man. It will readily be perceived how, in the mean time, a foramen of Winslow will have been formed by this imaginary manipulation.* We should deem this pouching or widening of the gastric mesentery to have reference to the great distention to which the stomach is liable, but that the sac is far too ample to be obliterated by any possible distention of that organ. The transverse mesocolon, formed of two layers of peritoneum, derived as described above, is about six inches broad in the middle, and gradually narrows off on each side. It retains the transverse portion of the colon in situ, and transmits the veins, arteries, and nerves to this part of the intestine. At its root its two layers separate, leaving a prismoid space, which gives * The whole duodenum of many mammalian animals, the cat for instance, has a mesentery ; in that case the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow is determined by the hepatic artery; in these animals this portion of the alimentary tube passes off downwards, so that no part of it is trans- verse.