332 MICROSCOPE. will be caused to meet at a point, called the focus, some distance beyond the centre of cur- vature. This effect will not be materially changed, by allowing the rays to pass into air again through a plane surface of glass, such as would be formed by a section of the glass in the vertical line ; a lens of this description is called a plano-convex lens ; and it will hereafter be shown to possess properties, which render it very useful in the construction of microscopes. But if, instead of passing through a plane sur- face, the rays re-enter the air through a convex surface, they will be made to converge still more. This may be best understood by considering the course of parallel rays, as in the adjoining Fig. 147. |1B lis--. Parallel rays falling on a plano-convex lens brought to a focus at the distance of its diameter, and vice versa. if a double convex lens will bring parallel rays to a focus in the centre of its sphere of curva- ture, it will on the other hand cause rays to assume a parallel direction, which are diverging from its focus ; so that if a luminous body were placed in that point, all its cone of rays, which fell upon the surface of the lens, would pass out in a cylindrical form. Again, if rays al- ready conveiging fall upon a convex lens, they Fie. 148. A B, parallel rays passing through glass and falling upon the convex surface FUG; B H, B H, radii prolonged, which are the perpendiculars to the curved surface at the several points; B C, course of the rays if unrefracted ; B E, their course in consequence of refraction. figure (Jig. 145). Here the radii prolonged will be the perpendiculars to the curved surface; and, according to the law of refraction just alluded to, the rays passing from the dense into the rare medium will be bent from the perpendicular, so as to be made to converge towards a focus, as in the former instance. It is easy to see, therefore, that the effect of the second convex surface will be precisely equivalent to that of the first; for the contrary direction of the sur- face is antagonized by the contrary direction of the refraction; so that the focus of a double convex lens will be at just half the distance from it, or (as commonly expressed) be half the length of the focus of a plano-convex lens. In fact, the focus of the former to parallel rays will be the centre of its sphere of curvature, and its focal length will therefore be the radius; whilst the focus of the latter will be in the op- posite side of the sphere, and its focal length will be the diameter. Now it is evident that Fig. 146. Rays already converging brought to a focus nearer than the centre ; and rays diverging from such a point, still diverging in a diminished degree. Fig. 149. Parallel rays falling on a double convex lens brought to a focus in its centre ; and rays diverging from such a point rendered parallel. Rays diverging from points more distant than the prin- cipal focus on either side brought to a focus be- yond it. will be brought to a focus at a point nearer to it than the focus for parallel rays (which is called its principal focus); and, if they be di- verging from a distant point, their focus will be more distant than the principal focus. The further be the point from which they diverge, the more nearly will the rays approach the pa- rallel direction ; until, at length, when the ob- jects are very distant, their rays in effect become parallel, and are brought to a focus in the centre of the sphere. If they diverge from the other extremity of the diameter of the sphere, they will be brought to a focus at a correspond- ing distance on the other side of the lens. On the other hand, if they be diverging from a point