MICROSCOPE. 336 without any essential difficulty in practice; for the dispersive power of flint-glass is so much greater than that of crown-glass, that a convex lens of the former, the focal length of which is 7jj inches, will produce the same degree of colour with a convex lens of crown-glass whose focal length is 4J inches. Hence a concave lens of the former material and curvature will fully correct the dispersion of a convex lens of the latter, and will yet diminish its refractive powvr only to such an extent as to make its focus ten inches. The correction for chromatic aberration in such a lens would be perfect, if it were not that, although the extreme rays, violet and red, are thus brought to the same focus, the dispersion of the rest is not equally compensated; so that what is termed a secon- dary spectrum is produced, the images of ob- jects seen through such a lens being bordered on one side with a purple fringe, and on the other with a green fringe. Moreover such a lens is not corrected for spherical aberration ; and it must of course be rendered free from this, to be of any service, however complete may be its freedom from colour. Opticians have long since been able to effect the required corrections, with sufficient accu- racy for most practical purposes, in the con- struction of large object glasses for telescopes ; the size of which has been only limited by the impossibility of obtaining glasses of large di- mensions perfectly free from faults. But it has been only of late years, that the construc- tion of achromatic and aplanatic object-glasses for microscropes has been considered prac- ticable,—their extremely minute size appearing to forbid the employment of the necessary combinations, since a very high amount of accuracy is required in the several curvatures, in order to obtain any real improvement. About the year 1820, however, the attempt was first made in France by M. Selligues, who was fol- lowed by Frauenhofer at Munich, by Amici at Modena, and by Mr. Tulley of London ; and with these attempts a new era in the history of the microscope may be said with truth to have commenced. The work has been prosecuted, both theoretically and practically, with the greatest zeal, and the result has been most successful. By combining two or three groups of double lenses, each corrected in a particular manner, so that the whole is quite free from aberration, a perfectly sharp and clearly- defined image may now be obtained through a lens of many times the aperture of those formerly in use; and the differences in the representation of the objects under enquiry, between such lenses and a good achromatic, are such as could not have been, a priori, sus- pected. One of the most pleasing results of this improvement has been the greatly-increased unanimity amongst microscopical observers, as to the appearances actually witnessed by them; for with the old and imperfect instru- ments, great uncertainty could not but exist in regard to many objects, of whose nature every one formed his own opinion, frequently accord- ing to preconceived ideas; but at present the objects are presented to the sight of each ob- server possessed of a good instrument, with so much more clear and uniform an appearance, that there is much less scope for the play of his imagination as to their real character,— however much he may exercise it upon their history. It would be foreign to the purpose of this article to enter into scientific details upon the minutiae of the construction of achro- matic combinations; but it may not be amiss to state that, in the opinion of the author, English artists have far surpassed foreigners in the construction of lenses of very short focus, whilst some foreign combinations which he has seen, of low magnifying power, possess an advantage over those of British make,—the constructors of the latter having sometimes sacrificed what he deems adequate correctness in aiming at a very large aperture.* With these preliminary details as to the na- ture of the means by which microscopic power is obtained, we shall proceed to notice their chief applications to practice. Excluding for the present the solar and gas microscopes, in which an image visible to any number of per- sons at once is formed upon a screen, and is viewed by them precisely as other surrounding objects would be, we shall consider the instru- ments (to which the term microscope is more commonly applied), whose effects are produced by their influence on the rays of light which enter the eye of the observer, and which can be used, therefore, by but one at the same time. These are distinguished as single or simple, and compound microscopes. Each of these kinds has its peculiar advantages for the anatomist; and we shall, therefore, describe the construction and uses of both in some detail. Their essential difference consists in this,—that in the former the rays of light which enter the eye of the observer proceed directly from the object itself, after having been subject only to a change in their course, whilst in the latter an inverted image of the object is formed by a lens, which image is viewed by the ob- server through a simple microscope, as if it were the object itself. The simple microscope may consist of one lens, but (as will be pre- sently shown) it may be formed of two or even three; but these are so disposed as to produce an action upon the rays of light correspondent to that of a single lens. For this kind of mi- croscope, therefore, we prefer the term simple to single. In the compound microscope, on the other hand, not less than two lenses must be employed, one to form the inverted image of the object, and this being nearest to it is called the object-glass, whilst the other mag- nifies that image, being interposed between it and the eye of the observer, and is hence called the eye-glass; Both these may be constructed of several lenses, as will be hereafter shown ; but they are so arranged as to have the func- tions of a single lens, and are only combined * Those who wish to study the principles which now guide opticians in their construction, should refer to Mr. J. J. Lister's paper in the Phil. Trans, for 1829, and Mr. Ross's Memoir in the Trans, of the Society of Arts, vol. it.