755 NUTRITION. difficulty of respiration. It is in the different forms of tubercular deposit that we see the gradation most strikingly displayed between the euplastic and the aplastic formations. In the semi-transparent, miliary, grey, and tough yel- low forms of tubercle, we find traces of organi- zation in the form of cells and fibres, more or less obvious; these being sometimes almost as perfectly formed as those of plastic lymph, at least on the superficial part of the deposit, which is in immediate relation with the living structures around, and sometimes so degen- erated as scarcely to be distinguishable. In no instances do such deposits ever undergo further organization, and therefore they must be re- garded as caco-plastic. But in the opaque, crude, or yellow tubercle, we do not find even these traces of definite structure; for the matter of which it consists is altogether granular, more resembling that which we find in an albuminous coagulum. The larger the proportion of this kind of matter in a tubercular deposit, the more is it prone to soften, whilst the semi-organized tubercle has more tendency to contraction. Fig. 406.* Microscopic appearances of tubercular matter m the lungs, after Gulliver. To the left, magnified 190 diameters, is shown a central portion of tubercle, from the lungs of a man aged 22, who died of pulmonary consumption ; the tubercle is contained in the air-cells, and surrounded by the fibres of their walls. To the right is depicted some ot the same tubercle, separated and magnified about 820 diameters. Now although tubercular matter may be slowly and insidiously deposited, by a kind of degradation of the ordinary nutritive process, yet it cannot be doubted that inflammation has a great tendency to favour it; so that a larger quantity may be produced in the lungs, after a pneumonia has existed for a day or two, than it would have required years to generate in the previous mode. But the character of the de- posit still remains the same ; and its relation to the plastic element of the blood is shown by the interesting fact, of no unfrequent occurrence,— that, in a pneumonia affecting a tuberculous subject, plastic lymph is thrown out in one part, whilst tubercular matter is deposited in another. Now inflammation, producing a rapid deposi- tion of tubercular matter, is peculiarly liable to arise in organs which have been previously * From Wagner's Physiology, p. 360. affected with chronic tubercular deposits, by an impairment of the process of textural nutrition ; for these deposits, acting like foreign bodies, may of themselves become sources of irritation ; and the perversion of the structure and func- tions of the part renders it peculiarly suscep- tible of the influence of external morbific causes. These views, at which several recent physiologists and pathologists have arrived on independent grounds, seein to reconcile or supersede all die discordant opinions which have been upheld at different times regarding the nature of tubercle, and lead to the soundest views with respect to the treatment of the diathesis. Parasitic growths.—Besides the products of disordered nutrition, which have been just considered, there is another class of morbid structures, differing from the preceding in well- marked and important characters. Their exist- ence and mode of growth cannot generally be traced to simple variations in the local circula- tion and in the formative powers of the parts affected ; and they enjoy an independent vitality, which causes their maintenance and increase to be influenced but litde by the state of the textures around, except so far as this may affect the supply of blood which they receive. They bear a certain resemblance to other tis- sues, in an early stage of the developement of the latter; being for the most part composed of cells and fibres, combined in different modes : and they also correspond with them in chemical constitution. It is by this last character, in- deed, that they are to be distinguished from the vegetable organisms, which are unquestionably developed occasionally in the living animal body, and which often closely resemble them in aspect. The best practical division of parasitic growths is into the non-malignant and the malignant;—the former being of local origin, not tending to reappear in distant parts of the body, and having no injurious effect upon the surrounding tissues, except by the pressure they may exercise upon them, or the nourishment they may withdraw;—whilst the latter, having once made their appearance in thebody, tend to reappear at distant parts (even after the original growth has been removed), induce a complete change of structure and of actions in the organs in which they are de- veloped, and exert a very depressing influence upon the bodily system at large. The non-malignant growths may present various characters, intermediate between those of the tissues they replace, and those of malig- nant structures. In regard to their pathological cause, " we cannot at present go beyond the supposition, that they arise from altered vital properties in some of the molecules of the textures in which they are developed; so that, instead of being assimilated to these textures, and conforming to the laws of their growth and decay, these molecules grow of themselves in modes more or less peculiar, and more or less independently of the influences of the adjoining living parts. Where these , modes are less peculiar, and more dependent upon the nutrition of the adjacent structures, the growths 3 c 2