MARSUPIALIA. x VOL. III. Fig. 130. the convex surface of the liver. The coats of the ductus choledochus are thickened towards its termination, and become the seat of nu- merous mucous cysts which open into the in- terior of the duct. In the Phalangers the terminal half-inch of the ductus choledochus is similarly enlarged and glandular. The biliary and pancreatic ducts generally unite together before perforating the duodenum. In the Virginian Opossum, the long-nosed Bandicoot, and the long-tailed Dasyuie they pour their secretions into tlie gut an inch from the pylorus. In the great Kan- garoo the glandular ductus choledochus is joined by the pancreatic duct, and terminates in the duodenum five inches from the pylorus. The pancreas.—The pancreas extends as usual from the duodenum to the spleen, be- hind the stomach; it is characterized by a pro- cess sent off at right angles, or nearly so, to the main lobe at or near its left extremity. I have observed other small and thin processes branching out into the duodenal mesentery in a Phalanger; and similar but still more nu- merous processes, so as to give the organ a dendritic appearance in the Kangaroo; but the first-named process is constant. The spleen.—It is interesting to observe that the spleen corresponds in this triangular or T- shaped figure with the pancreas. In the great Kangaroo (Macropus major) I found the main body of the spleen ten inches long, and the rectangular process six inches ; both parts were narrow and thin. Absorbents.—The lacteal absorbents form, in the Dasyurus viverrinus, two thin, subelongate, dark-coloured mesenteric glands: one of these is situated near the pylorus, at the end of the pancreas. The plexiform cysterna chyli is si- tuated in the Kangaroo (Macropus Parry i was the species from which the following descrip- tion is taken) upon the crura of the diaphragm, and extends upon the right side above the dia- phragm into the thorax. Two thoracic ducts are continued from the cysterna, one along the left, the other along the right side of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. The right duct crosses the seventh vertebra and joins the left, which again divides and reunites, forming a slight plexus, before finally terminating at the confluence of the left subclavian and jugular veins. The double thoracic duct in the Kangaroo was first noticed by Dr. Hodgkin; it is interesting, on account of its resemblance to the characteristic condition of the great nutrient conduit in the Bird and Crocodile ; in these, however, each division terminates in the vena innominata of its own side, which was not the case in the Kangaroo above described. Blood.—From the characteristic elliptical form of the blood-discs of Birds and Reptiles, and the rare occurrence of that form, as in the exceptional case of the Camel tribe, among the placental Mammalia, the examination of these particles of the circulating fluid in the Marsu- pial genera was attended with more than ordi- nary interest, and the results, derived from a comparison of species belonging to all the lead- ing groups, show that the different tribes of Marsupial animals correspond with the analo- gous placental Mammalia both in the circular or subcircular contour of the blood-discs, and very nearly also in their size.* Dasyurus viverrinus.—The blood-discs of this small carnivorous Marsupial were sensibly larger than those of the analogous placental Mammalia, as the Cat. The ordinary or un- broken discs had their margin rounded off. The number of the granulated discs was con- siderable; many of them presented a well- defined margin, notched like a cog-wheel. The average diameter obtained by me was 35jjth of an inch. Dasyurus ursinus.—The average diameter of the blood-discs is ^: observed extremes of size 54, and ,3^. Perameles lagotis.—The blood of this Mar- supial, which was examined while recently drawn from the living animal, and under the same circumstances as that of the two species of Dasyi/rc, presented a still greater number of the granulated blood-discs mixed with others of the ordinary form. The descriptions of such altered blood-discs not only by Ilewson and Falconer, and in recent times by Professor * Sec Medical Gazette, November 13, 1839, and Mr. Gulliver's observations, London and Edinb. Pliilos. Magazine, February, 1840.