911 PENIS. soft parts and acts as an obstacle to intromis- sion, the penis is remarkable for its size and length. Among Birds, the penis is rudimentary in a great proportion of the class. In aquatic birds, however, it is large and constructed on the same principle as the penis of serpents, so as to be capable of eversion. In the order Anseres, the intromittent organ is remarkable for its length, and is furnished with a groove which runs spirally around its axis. In terrestrial birds, the penis is large and grooved, and pro- vided with a ligament of elastic tissue, which effects its retraction. Throughout the whole class of Mammifera, the existence of an intromittent organ, furnished with an urethral canal, is a common character. In Monotremuta, the penis is not conspicuous externally, but is contained in a sheath distinct from the cloaca, and protrudes through the latter under the influence of excitation. In this order, moreover, we meet with the inte- resting condition of an urethral canal, which is intended solely for the purpose of transmitting the seminal secretion, while the urine passes away by the cloaca. In Marsupiata, the penis, which is of large size, is also situated in the in- terior of the animal in a sheath contiguous to the cloaca, but it passes through the latter when in a state of erection. Among Rodentia, the most remarkable character of the intromittent organ is the presenceof recurved spines upon the glans penis ; this apparatus reminds us of the clasp- ing organs seen in insects and in the higher cartilaginous fishes, and is obviously intended to fulfil a similar function. The order Edentata affords two opposite conditions of the intro- mittent organ in relation to size; these condi- tions having reference, as in Chelonia, to the convenience of the animals. Thus in the Bra- dypus or Sloth, the penis is rudimentary, while in the Armadillo the organ is exceedingly large. In Cetacea, which from the nature of the me- dium in which they live, are subject to impedi- ment in the impregnating act, the penis is enor- mous. In Ruminantia and Pachydermata the organ is of large size, and presents but little variety of form. In some genera it is more or less curved while in the state of repose; in others it is straight. The intromittent organ in Carnivora is rendered remarkable by the pre- sence of a bone, the os penis, which is more or less developed in different genera. Thus in Plantigrade Carnivora it is of large size, while in the feline race it is cartilaginous and rudi- mentary. In all the orders of Mammifera hitherto ex- amined, the penis is contained either within a sheath in the interior of the body, as occurs in Monotremata, Marsupiata, and Cetacea, or in a sheath of the integument upon the exterior. But in Quadrumana, the transition class to man, the sheath of integument no longer exists, and the organ hangs pendent from its attach- ment. The os penis still remains to identify the quadrumanous race with the inferior classes, but in the higher genera, the Chimpanzee and Orang, even this character of inferior organisa- tion is lost. Mayer,* it is true, has declared the existence of a small cartilage, of a prismoid form, and about a line or a line and a half in length, in man. This he regards as the homologue of the os penis in inferior animals. It is situated, he says, in the submucous tissue of the upper part of the urethra within the glans penis; but he finds it only in strong and pow- erful men. Should this observation be con- firmed by succeeding research, we ought to be able to find such a structure, even more consi- derable in its development, in the Chimpanzee. For my own part, 1 am unable to corroborate Mayer's discovery, having failed in numerous examinations of the human organ instituted for the purpose of finding it. Having thus briefly reviewed the animal kingdom in relation to the existence of an organ of transmission for the reproductive secre- tion of the male, and having determined the conditions under which that organ is developed and its modifications produced, we may in the next place proceed to consider the conformation and structure of the penis, taking as the proper standard of comparison the intromittent organ of man. The penis of man is situated at the lower part of the abdomen, below and in front of the symphysis pubis, and presents some difference in character, accordant with its state of excite- ment or repose. In the latter condition it is cylindrical in form and hangs loosely in front of the scrotum; in the former, its shape is prismoid, with rounded edges and slightly grooved along the sides, one facet of the prism broader than the other two forming the upper surface or dorsum of the organ, and a rounded angle the inferior border. Moreover, in the state of repose, the organ makes a sudden curve in front of the pubis, the concavity of the bend looking downwards; while in the state of erec- tion it is directed upwards, and forms a gentle curve towards the parietes of the abdomen. For convenience of description and refer- ence, we are wont to consider the penis as divisible into a middle portion or body; the upper surface of the body being called the dorsum, a free and rounded extremity the glans, and a root or attached extremity by which it is connected with the ramus of the ischium at each side. The length and bulk of the organ vary with the conditions of erection and repose, and also with the individual. The anatomical constituents of the penis are, the integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue, with the fascia penis; two bodies proper to this organ, the corpus cavernosum and cor- pus spongiosum, mucous membrane, muscles, vessels, and nerves. The integument of the penis is remarkable for the thinness and fineness of its texture, its exceeding elasticity, and generally for a deeper tint of colour than that of the surrounding skin. The tenuity of the skin is equal to that of the eyelids, but is exceeded by the integument of the scrotum, and contrasts very strongly with * Froriep's Notizen, No. 883.