300 MARSUP1ALIA. Fig. 122. Alimentary canal, Phascogale fiavipcs. internal surface of the left cul-de-sac was quite smooth and villous (?), while the right half of the stomach was entirely covered internally with rugae, running chiefly in a longitudinal direc- tion, and particularly numerous towards the pylorus."* The stomach in the Wombat and Koala does not materially differ in external figure from that of the above-cited Marsupials ; the oesophagus terminates nearly midway between the right and left extremities, but furtherfrom the pylorus in the Wombat than in the Koala. The conglomerate gastric gland is of a flattened ovate form, rela- tively larger in the Wombat than in the Koala, situated to the left of the cardiac orifice, at the lesser curvature of the stomach (fig. 123). The gastric gland has a similar position in the Fig. 123. Stomach of the Wombat, inverted. Beaver, but in this animal the excretory orifices of the gland are arranged in three longitudinal rows, while in the Wombat and Koala they are scattered irregularly ; in the Wombat they are about thirty in number, and the bottoms of the larger depressions are subdivided into smaller cells. In the partially contracted state the inner membrane of the stomach of the Wombat, as represented in the figure, is dis- posed in pretty regular longitudinal rugae, which gradually subside towards the pylorus ; but when the stomach is distended these folds disappear, and the left extremity presents a full globular form. In the Wombat dissected by me the oesophagus terminated nearer the py- lorus than is represented in the figure here given from the Comparative Anatomy of Sir Everard Home. The sacculated stomach of the Kangaroo, which offers the extreme modification of this organ in the Marsupial order, resembles the human colon both in its longitudinal extent, structure, and disposition in the abdomen. The natural relative position of this singular viscus is, however, very different from that described by Sir Everard Home,* who evi- dently has taken his account from the drawing by Mr. Clift, from which our Jig.\24 is taken : the object of this drawing, however, being to pourtray the modifications of the inner surface of the Kangaroo's stomach, it is artificially dis- posed accordingly. In a full-grown female Kangaroo (Macropus major), I found the abdominal oesophagus four inches long, and terminating at six inches distance from the left extremity of the stomach : this extremity was folded forwards and to the right in front of the oesophagus ; from the basis of the left cul-de- sac the stomach continued to expand, and descended into the left lumbar and iliac regions, whence it stretched upwards and to the right side obliquely across the abdomen, to the right hypochondrium, where it became contracted Fig. 124. Stomach of the Kangaroo. and finally bent downwards and backwards to terminate in the duodenum. The whole length of the stomach, following its curvatures, was three feet six inches, equalling that of the ani- mal itself from the muzzle to the vent. * Werncrian Transactions, vol. vi. p. 199. * Lectures on Comp. Anatomy, i. p. 156.