664 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) The general conclusions deducible from the preceding statements are, that the human brain reaches and maintains its highest degree of de- velopement between the ages of 20 and 60; that the female brain is materially smaller than that of the male ; that the proportion of the weight of the brain to that of the body de- creases with age, and the most marked diminution in this respect takes place between the ages of 20 and 30 years, although it has aheady begun at 5 years, and occurs very de- cidedly at from 13 to 15 years; and lastly, that the great preponderance of the human brain over that of most of the lower animals depends upon the great developement of the cerebrum and cerebellum. It was formerly admitted, pretty generally, that the human brain was larger, both abso- lutely and relatively to the size of the body, than that of any other animal. This assertion, however, must now be received with some mo- dification. Exceptions to its superiority in ab- solute weight are found in the elephant and the whale. The brain of an African elephant, seventeen years old, which was dissected by Perrault, weighed 9 lbs.* The brain of an Asiatic elephant weighed, according to Allen Moulins, 10 lbs.f Sir Astley Cooper dissected an elephant's brain, which weighed 8 lbs. 1 oz. 2 grs. (avoirdupois.) | Rudolphi found that the brain of a whale, 75 feet long, (Balana mi/sticetus,) weighed 5 lbs. 10^ oz., and that that of a narwhal ( Monodon rnonoceros,) 17 to 18 feet long, had a weight of 2 lbs. 3 oz. And there are likewise exceptions to the statement that the human brain is larger than that of other animals, relatively to the size of his body. Pozzi§ has shewn (as quoted by Tiedemann) that many small birds (for instance, the spar- row) have, in comparison to the size of their body, a larger brain than man ; and Dauben- ton, Haller, Blumenbach, and Cuvier, found the brain of some of the smaller apes of the Rodentia, and singing birds, relatively to the size of the body, larger than in man.|| " We must seek for the cause of man's su- periority," says Tiedemann, " not merely in the greater bulk of his brain in comparison to that of his body, but regard must also be had to the size of his brain with respect to the bulk and thickness of his cerebral nerves, and likewise to the degree of perfection in its structure. Soemmering was the first to show that the human brain, in comparison to the size and thickness of the nerves, is larger than that of any other animal, even the elephant and whale, both of which have an absolutely larger brain than man. Blumenbach's, Obels', Cuvier's, Treviranus', and my own researches have suffi- * Descr. Anatom. d'un Elephant, Mem. de 1'Acad. des Sciences de Paris, t. iii. t An anatomical account of an iilephant. Lond. 1682. % Quoted in Tiedemann's paper on the Brain of the Negro. Phil. Trans. 1836. § Obsevvat. Anatom. de Cerebro, an sit inhomine proportione majus, qiiam in aliis animalibus ? || Tiedemann's paper on the Hrain of the Negro, before quoted. See also Leuret'sTable, Anat. Comp. du Systeme Nerveux, t. i. p. 420. ciently corroborated this. It is also satisfac- torily shewn that the organization of the human brain is far superior to that of any other animal, not even excepting those apes which bear the closest resemblance to man.'' . The following conclusions, which Tiedemann deduces from his observations, are so impor- tant that I cannot refrain from inserting them here.* " l.The weight of the brain of an adult male European varies between 3 lbs. 2 oz. and 4 lbs. 6 oz The brain of men who have distinguished themselves by their great talents is often very large. The brain of the celebrated Cuvier weighed 3 lbs. 11 oz. 4 dr. 40 grs. avoirdupois, or 4 lbs. 11 oz. 4 dr. 30 grs. troy weight. The brain of the celebrated surgeon Dupuytren weighed 4 lbs. 10 oz. troy weight. (Both of these eminent individuals, it ought to be re- marked, died with the brain in a state of dis- ease.) The brain of men, with feeble intel- lectual powers, is, on the contrary, often very small, particularly in congenital idiotismus. The brain of an idiot, fifty years old, weighed but 1 lb. 8 oz. 4 dr., and that of another, forty years of age, weighed but 1 lb. 11 oz. 4 dr. " 2. The female brain is lighter than that of the male. It varies between 2 lbs. 8 oz. and 3 lbs. 11 oz. troy. I never found a female brain that weighed 4 lbs. The brain of a girl, an idiot, sixteen years old, weighed only 1 lb. 6 oz. 1 dr. The female brain weighs, on an average, from four to eight ounces less than that of the male; and this difference is already perceptible in a new-born child. " 3. The brain arrives, on an average, at its full size towards the seventh or eighth year. Soemmering says, erroneously, that the brain does not increase after the third year. Gall and Spurzheim, on the other hand, are of opi- nion that the brain continues to grow till the fourteenth year. The brothers Wenzel have shewn that the brain arrives at its full growth about the seventh year. This is confirmed by Hamilton's researches." (The reader will perceive that these state- ments do not exactly accord with the results of Dr.John Reid's observations. It seems probable that the data upon which Tiedemann's conclu- sions were founded have been too limited in number. In calculating the weight of the brain in adolescence and adult age, some allowance should be made for the greater proportion of water at the former period ; the quantities of that fluid being at those ages 72 and 74 parts in 100 respectively, according to L'Heritie.) "4. Desmoulins is of opinion that the brain decreases in old people. From this circum- stance he explains the diminution of the functions of the nervous system and intellec- tual powers. The truth of this assertion has not as yet been determined. The brothers Wenzel, and Hamilton deny it. " It is remarkable that the brain of a man, eighty-two years old, was very small, and weighed but 3 lbs. 2 oz. 3 dr., and the brain of a woman, about eighty years old, weighed but * Loc. cit. p, 502.