NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. Ill veilhier.* The description given of it by Morgagni is, that it consists of a granular sub- stance of a livid whitish colour, from which under the pressure of the epiglottic or neigh- bouring muscles a fluid is poured out. Wris- bergf described it as a cartilage under the name of cuneiform. Cuvier and Wolff, as before stated, have confounded it with the cartilage of Santorini. Morgagni appears to have mistaken for glandular the yellow elastic tissue pene- trating its body. Lauth describes some mucous follicles about its base and internal surface, but he opposes the views of Morgagni on the constitution of this body. This body is some- times absent in the human subject, but scarcely ever in the quadrumana. Its structure is de- cidedly cartilaginous. The epiglottic gland. — Syn. glundnla epi- glottidis, Fab. Cass. Morg. The epiglottic gland is a name given to a mass of yellow ligamentous adipose and cellular substance, situated in the triangular space between the anterior surface of the epiglottis and the angle of the thyroid cartilage; it is bounded anteriorly by the thyro-hyoid membrane, above by the thyro-epiglottic mucous membrane and ligament; below, by the union of the epiglottis with the thyroid cartilage, and on each side by the mucous membrane passing from the thyroid to the epiglottis. Berengarius speaks of it as a fleshy gland : Steno and many others as com- posed of granules, whose ducts perforate the epiglottis and open on its posterior surface. Fabricius, Casserius, and Morgagni J have de- scribed and figured these supposed granules and ducts. Bichat,§ Cloquet,|| Quain,U and most modern anatomists adopt the same views. Morgagni, upon the same supposition as he had formed of the nature of the elastic tissue, considers the composition of the epiglottis to be chiefly glandular. Cloquet and Bichat admit the difficulty of detecting any follicular structure, nor could we discover any under the microscope; and from what has been already stated on the structure of the epiglottis, we conclude, as of the arytenoid, that the structure which enjoys the name of epiglottic gland is not glandular. Mucous membrane.—-The mucous membrane of the larynx is continuous with that which covers the mouth and pharynx. The posterior surface of the larynx is bounded by the pharynx, and is lined by mucous membrane both on its • Traite d'Anat. t Prima; lineae phys. anat. a de Hallcr, cd. Wris- berg. Gotting. 1780-8. p. 157. % Morg. advers. anat. om. tab. ii. p. 48. § " Cet espacc estoccupepar un corps manifeste- ment celluleux, et graisseux, dans sa plus grande partie, mais qui est inferieurement recouvre de petits grains glanduleux, tantot agglommeres, tantot isoles, lesquels envoient sensiblement dcs prolonged mens dans les trous dont est percee l'epiglotte : les prolongemens paroissent s'ouvrir stir sa surface laryngee, aux orifices qu'on y distingue. Quelque- fois les petits corps glanduleux sont tellcment masques par cette graisse jaunatre, qu'on ne peut les distinguer." Traite d'Anat. descript. torn. ii. p. 385. |l Anat. descript. p. 245. % Klein, of Anat. p. 858. anterior and posterior surfaces. If the state- ment of Cruveilhier be correct, this singular duplication is not to be found elsewhere in the animal economy ; afterwards it is reflected over the surface of the base of the tongue, and lines the interior surface of the epiglottis; in this space it forms threefolds, catted glosso-epiglottic, often described as the middle, and two lateral, which adhere closely to the surface of the epi- glottis. The mucous membrane being reflected over the free part of the epiglottis, to which it rather closely adheres, then lines its posterior surface and dips into the larynx. A duplication called the ari/teno-epiglottic fold passes from each side of the lateral mar- gin of the epiglottis to the vertical apophysis of the arytenoid cartilage. This membrane is connected posteriorly with the mucous coat of the pharynx, and lines the posterior surface of the larynx ; it is reflected over the arytenoid cartilages, and with the aryteno-epiglottic fold forms the posterior and lateral superior margin of the larynx ; covers the superior thyroaryte- noid ligaments, penetrates to the bottom of the ventricles ; from thence, after lining the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, it passes through the chink of the glottis, covers the thyro and crico- arytenoideus lateralis muscles, and the internal surface of the cricoid cartilages, and becomes the investing membrane of the trachea. The laryngeal membrane is perforated by numerous mucous orifices of a peculiar pale rose-colour, and is remarkable for its great sen- sibility, more especially in the region above the rima glottidis. The rima glottidis. Syn. cavum seu sinus la- ryngis The chink of the larynx is an aperture directed horizontally, connecting the supra and infra-laryiigeal regions, and allowing the free transmission of air in respiration. It is bound- ed posteriorly by the arytenoid cartilages, ary- tenoid muscle and mucous membrane; laterally by the arytenoid cartilages and the thyro-aryte- noid ligaments, which, with the mucous mem- brane reflected over them, present nearly rect- angular-shaped valves, attached on three sides, leaving one, bounding the glottis, free; ante- riorly by the angle of the thyroid. Immedi- ately above it are the ventricles, one on each side. The intrinsic muscles of the larynx not only contribute to its functions in the produc- tion of voice, but determine its form. The form of the chink of the glottis is variable; in the state of repose, or that of ordinary respiration, it is triangular, the aperture dilating during inspiration and contracting during expiration. When the arytenoids are separated to the great- est extent by the crico-arytenoidei postici, it assumes a lozenge form ; if the posterior bases of the arytenoids are closed by the arytenoid muscles it becomes an ellipse; if the anterior apophyses of the arytenoids meet by the action of the crico-arytenoidei laterales, the chink may be divided into two parts. The length of the chink of the glottis is very variable, and bears a relation to that of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments ; like the latter, it increases with age in an arith- metical proportion until the period of puberty ; at that time its length in the male sex under-