NOSE. 737 which is in Sandifort's museum, and in which the olfactory nerves and the nasal, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones are all absent. Next to these are cases in which the nose exists, but has not its naturally complex form. Otto* describes two such in mature female anencephalous children. The nose was in both flat and broad; it had but one nostril, and the septum was absent. The inferior turbinated bones were approximated posteriorly, so as in one case to close the nasal cavity, and in the other to reduce it to a very narrow aperture opening into the pharynx. In one of these children, also, the olfactory nerves were absent. Sometimes a state like this exists on one side only. Vrolik f mentions a child still living in which the right half of the nose was fully deve- loped, but on the left side there was a kind of snout hanging from the root of the half nose, perforated and giving passage to mucus and air. Professor Broers cut off this appendage and the aperture closed. The floor of the nasal fossae remaining in the state which it naturally presents up to the third month, constitutes cleft palate, a slight degree of which, since it produces no inconvenience, is more common than is generally supposed. When the membrane described as closing the nostrils after about the ninth week is not removed, the atresia nurium results. Several cases fairly referable to this arrest of develope- ment have been recorded.^ Defects of developement at a later period are seen in the cases of absence of one or more sinuses, of which also several cases have been recorded. And with these, as errors of deve- lopement produced perhaps by some accidental pressure, may be enumerated the examples of extreme obliquity or curvature of the septum, in which the apex of the nose is turned com- pletely to one side or even backwards towards the cheek. Such are the cases for the remedy of which Dieffenbach has lately applied with success the subcutaneous division of the carti- lages and the adjacent contracted tissues.ยง Another slight defect is that in which part of the septum is deficient, or in which the bone is perforated but is closed by membrane. Haller|| describes a case in which the vomer was com- pletely and widely perforated; but much more commonly the defect is in the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone. Very rarely there is an aperture in the cartilaginous part of the septum. The excellent anatomist Hildebrandt had a defect of this kind.lf A class of cases, which, though congenital, cannot be certainly referred to arrest of deve- lopement, are those of fissure of the nose. Sometimes the nose alone is said to be divided deeply in the median plane,** and this may * Monstronim sex centorum descr.anat.N.vii.viii. t L. c. p. 260. t Sec Vrolik, 1. c. and Meckel, Handb. der pa- thoIoKischen Anatomic, fid. i. p. 107. ยง Casper's Wochenschrift, Sept. 18, 1841. j| Elementa Physiologic, v. 137. % Hildebrandt's Anatoinie, by E. H. Weber, iv. 107. "* Isidore St. Hilaire, Traite des Anomalies, t. i. p. 603. VOL. III. represent the foetal state in which the frontal processes have not united, or in which the septum is not yet formed. But the cases are more numerous in which the fissure exists on one or both sides of the face. In some it extends from the angle of the mouth, through one or both alee of the nose, to the internal or external angle of the eye, laying into one the cavities of the mouth, nose, and one or both orbits. Four such cases, differing but little from each other, are recorded by Vrolik. He possesses also an example in which, in a much less degree of the same defect, there is only a fissure of the skin from the mouth to the eye by the side of the right ala nasi; and another, in which a deeper fissure extends in the same direction on both sides. These cases, how- ever, like those of hare lip, cannot be regarded as mere arrests of developement: there is no period in which the foetus is known to present these as normal conditions. Avery remarkable congenital defect in which the nose is concerned, is that of which the\ ^ subjects have been called Cyclopian or Cyclo- cephalian monsters. It has been admirably illus- trated in a special memoir by Dr. Vrolik,* who points out five varieties of it. In the first, the eyes are absent or not externally visible, and the nose is either absent altogether or replaced by a kind of proboscis or snout-shaped member, consisting of little more than skin, and attached above the orbit. In the second there is a single orbit in the middle of the forehead which con- tains a single eye-ball, and above which there is sometimes a proboscis representing the nose. In the third, the eye appears externally to be single, but is internally double; and with this again the nose may exist in the form of a pro- boscis. In the fourth, the two eye-balls are separated, but they lie in one orbit in contact, or with only a narrow partition between them, and above them there is a proboscis which, as in the other cases, may be curved either upwards or downwards. In the fifth, the pro- boscis, approaching more nearly to the form of a natural nose, has an osseous nucleus, and is directed downwards; and the eye, above which it is placed, is either double or single. In this series, therefore, there is a regular gradation from the natural to the most unnatural condi- tion, in regard to both the nose and the eyes. For the eyes, there is in some no eye at all; in some a single eye-ball placed in the middle line; in some again an eye-ball, which appears single, contains parts of two ; and in some two eye-balls lie close together in a single median orbit. For the nose, it is in some altogether absent; in some it exists in the form of a snout which is little more than a prolongation of skin ; in others it has a more or less well-formed osseous nucleus; in some it is curled upwards and backwards, in others directed obliquely downwards: and among all these there are numerous gradations of deformity. Now, any of these conditions of the nose may co-exist with any of those of the eye : there is no regular * Over den aard en oorsprong der Cyclopie, in the Transactions of the Netherlands Instilute, Am- sterdam, 1836, and in his Handbock, J), ii. p. 14. 3 B