789 ORBIT. and their position with regard to the eye-ball will at once determine this point. If then any such movement occurs, other muscles must be provided in order to effect it. We now proceed to consider the action of the oblique muscles. It may be well to remind the reader that, in all the vertebrate animals, these muscles have essentially the same direction and relations; the only difference being that in fishes, rep- tiles, and birds, the superior oblique arises from the anterior part of the orbit, whence it passes backwards and outwards to its insertion; whereas, in Mammalia, it comes from the pos- terior part of the orbit and passes through a tendinous pulley before taking its course back- wards and outwards ; the action of the muscle will obviously be the same in both cases. One function which has been assigned to the oblique muscles, is that of antagonising the recti so as to prevent the retraction of the eye-ball within the orbit during the action of the latter mus- cles. To this conclusion Sir C. Bell asserts there are many objections: two of these ob- jections we subjoin in his own words. "1. In creatures where the eye is socketed in a cup of cartilage and cannot retract, the oblique muscles are nevertheless present. 2. Where a powerful retractor muscle is bestowed in ad- dition to the recti muscles to pull the eye-ball back, the oblique muscles have no additional magnitude given to them to pull the eye-ball forwards." Now we must not suppose that the antagonism exerted by the oblique muscles is such as to oppose the conjoint forcible action, or active contraction, of all the recti muscles, and of a retractor when such a muscle exists. If such were the case, we should certainly find the developement of the oblique muscles in some degree proportioned to that of the mus- cles they were intended to antagonise, and a cup of cartilage at the back of the eye-ball would apparently supersede the necessity for any antagonism on the part of the oblique muscles; but the kind of antagonism which the oblique muscles probably exert upon the recti is equally necessary whether the eye-ball be encased in cartilage or supplied with a re- tractor muscle. It is simply the same kind of antagonism which the muscles on the op- posite sides of the face exert upon each other. Paralysis of the portio dura on one side is attended with a traction of the features to the opposite side; this results from the ordinary tonicity or passive contraction of the muscles on the one side, unopposed by the correspond- ing force on the other; the distortion is gene- rally conspicuous enough when the muscles are at rest, but when they are thrown into active contraction it becomes still more marked, and the movements of the sound side are un- steady and oscillating. During the healthy state then the symmetry of the features is maintained by this antagonism of the muscles on opposite sides of the face. In like manner when the muscles are at rest, the eye-ball is kept delicately balanced between its six mus- cles; the superior rectus opposes the inferior, and the external opposes the internal, while the obliqui are opposed to each other, and the recti conjointly are antagonised in their retracting tendency by the opposite force of the obliqui. This is the condition during a state of rest, when the contraction of all the mus- cles is merely that of their ordinary tonicity or passive contraction. Now, suppose one straight muscle to be thrown into a state of voluntary active contraction; immediately the cornea is directed towards that muscle, the antagonism of the other five muscles serving the important purpose of preventing any irregular oscillatory movement of the eye-ball; when the contrac- tion of that muscle ceases, the eye is at once restored to its original position. One of the uses of the oblique muscles then is by their antagonism of the recti to assist in preventing any'unsteady motion of the eye-ball. This, however, is by no means the only or the chief use of the oblique muscles, and the question arises, what movements of the eye-ball are effected by the contraction of these muscles? Upon this subject the most contradictory state- ments have been made; on the one hand Soemmering, Cloquet, and Harrison assert, that the superior oblique directs the pupil down- wards and inwards, the inferior oblique moves it upwards and outwards; on the other hand, according to Miiller, Monro, and Sir C. Bell, the superior oblique directs the pupil down- wards and outwards, the inferior oblique up- wards and inwards. All these anatomists agree in supposing that the oblique muscles effect what we have called circumduction of the eye-ball, but their disagreement as to the direction in which circumduction occurs under the influence of these muscles, is of itself an argument against the probability of any such movement being produced by them. We have before stated that the recti muscles are of them- selves capable of circumducting the eye in all directions; this was admitted and proved ex- perimentally by Sir C. Bell. He " cut across the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the right eye of a monkey. He was very little disturbed by this experiment, and turned round his eyes with his characteristic inquiring looks, as if nothing had happened to affect the eye." In another experiment he " divided the lower oblique muscle of the eye of a monkey. The eye was not, in any sensible manner, af- fected ; the voluntary motions were perfect after the operation." The result of these ex- periments appeared to Sir C. Bell to confirm the opinion which he entertained that the oblique muscles perform certain involuntary movements, such as the forcible elevation of the cornea under the upper lid when the eye is irritated, and the rolling of the cornea under the lid when the eye is closed. He appears anxious to prove that the fourth nerve presides over the upward movement of the eye-ball which he says occurs during sneezing and certain other respiratory movements ; but as he has previously stated that the superior oblique to which the fourth nerve is distributed turns the eye downwards and outwards, in order to reconcile the two views he says, " if we sup- pose that the influence of the fourth nerve is,