MAMMARY GLANDS. 245 III. Cheiroptera. IV. Insectivora. V. Car- nivora. VI. Cetacea. VII. P achy der- ma. VIII. Ruminantia. IX. Edentata. X. Rodentia. Sub-Class.—IM PLAC ENTALI A. XI. Marsupialia. XII. Monotremata. The aim of the subjoined table is to express the mutual affinities and inter-dependencies of the several orders of Mammalia, and the points at which they are most nearly related to the inferior classes of the vertebrate animals. The annectant genera, some of which are extinct, are printed in italics, the orders and classes in Roman capitals. BlMANA. QUADRUMANA. Galeopithecus. Lemur. T Bradypus. j Cheiromys. I Didelphys. Cheiroptera Carnivora. L ^" Insectivora. Edentata. . Rodentia Marsupialia. ,... Monotrema. Otaria. Ghmtodon. Toxodon. Moschus. I v ' ' | Cetacea Pachydermata. ... Ruminantia. Pterodactylus. Ichthyosaurus. Aves. Pisces. Reptilia. MAMMARY GLANDS — Syn. Lesglandes mammaires, Fr., Die Milch, die Brust-drusen, Germ. These important organs of secretion are the peculiar characteristic of the highest division of the animal kingdom, Mammalia. In a physiological point of view they should be regarded as uterine appendages, as a por- tion of that series of instruments which Na- ture has provided in greater or less number, according to the ultimate perfection of the animal, for its gradual development. Their close proximity to the ovarian apparatus in some Mammalia, the cetacea for instance, and their peculiar structure and function in the Marsupiata, confirm this view of their phy- siological character. It is interesting to trace how gradually they have been removed from th eir caudal position to the atlantal portion of the body, so that in the human species, where the instincts are subjugated to the control of reason, and the helplessness of the infant has been made the means of moral training to the mother, these organs are brought towards the anterior, the nobler portion of the body. It must not, however, be supposed that this change of position is sudden, any more than any other step in the scale of progressive deve- lopment of organized beings. Formerly it was supposed that the re-connection of the ovum to the mother through the medium of bloodvessels collected into a placenta was as universal throughout the class Mammalia as the presence of these glands ; but the careful researches of Professor Owen Imve proved that the Marsu- piata and most probably some of the Mono- tremata form an exception to this rule. The fact is interesting in reference to the present subject from the greater importance which is (R. Owen.) given to the mamma in consequence of the ab- sence of this vascular connection, and the addi- tion of accessory structures which are absent in the more perfect mammalia. The arrangement of the secreting membrane of mammary glands has been universally found to be vesiculated, the only difference in differ- ent classes of animals consisting in the extent of secreting surface, owing to differences in the size of the cells, and their greater or less concen- tration within a circumscribed space. This vesiculated structure was described in 1751 by Duveinoi* in the hedgehog (Trans, of the Petersburg Academy), and in the human spe- cies it was discovered by Cruikshank, and de- scribed in his work on the absorbent glands, the second edition of which was published in 1790. At page 209 his words are, " The acini are small vesicles like Florence flasks in miniature ; in these, the arteries secreting the milk termi- nate ; and from these the excretory ducts, or the tubes carrying off the milk take their origin. The existence of such vesicles has been doubted ; Dr. Hunter doubted till my injections con- vinced him of the fact." He then goes on to explain his method of injecting, and concludes by saying that preparations exhibiting this fact may be seen in the anatomical collection in Great Windmill-street, which he had made fifteen years previously. Miiller, to whom the above fact was known, states that Mascagni recognised and demon- strated the vesicular ends of the lactiferous tubes and the absence of all direct commu- nication with the bloodvessels, in his Pro- dromo della Grande Anatomin, Firenze, 1819. * Miiller tie gland. &c.