PAR VAGUM. 889 surface of the pulmonary veins and branches of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and anasto- mose with branches from the inferior part of the cardiac plexus prolonged upon these ves- sels. Other branches proceed downwards and inwards upon the anterior surface of the bron- chii, and anastomose with the descending branches of the anterior and inferior tracheal plexus, with the nervous filaments accompany- ing the pulmonary bloodvessels, and with some branches direct from the sympathetic to form the anterior pulmonary plexus (plexus pulmo- nalis anterior). A few twigs also proceed from this portion of the vagus into the anterior me- diastinum, and are chiefly distributed in the thymus gland. As the trunk of the vagus passes behind the bronchus it sends off several pretty large branches upon the posterior surface of that tube, and also a few smaller ones upon the posterior surface of the pulmonary bloodvessels. These branches form a great part of the posterior pulmonary plexus (plexus pulmonalis poste- rior), and anastomose with twigs from the posterior and inferior bronchial, with some fila- ments from the superior thoracic oesophageal and the anterior pulmonary plexuses. The branches of the pulmonary plexuses, after send- ing off some nervous filaments which run for some distance below the pleura, (vide Reissei- sen De Fabrica Pulmonum, 1822, tab. vi. plate 2,) accompany the bronchial tubes and bloodvessels into the interior of the lungs, and follow the divisions and subdivisions of the bronchial tubes. The two trunks of the vagi, after leaving the lower edge of the bronchi, soon reach the oesophagus, where each nerve divides into three or four chords upon the sur- face of the oesophagus; those formed by the subdivisions of the left vagus lying on its an- terior and left side, those by the right vagus on its posterior and right side. The chords of the same nerve anastomose freely by large branches, and also by smaller and less nume- rous branches on both sides of the oesophagus, with those of the opposite nerve, and thus form an extensive and open network upon the sur- face of the oesophagus, called the inferior oeso- phageal plexus (plexus cesophageus thoracis inferior).* From these chords nervous fila- ments pass into the walls of the oesophagus, and they also exchange some communicating filaments with the sympathetic. Immediately before the vagi pass through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, the chords into which each nerve has divided again reunite; those of the left nerve collecting into one trunk, while those of the right frequently form two branches which run close to each other.f As they pass through the oesophageal opening, the right nerve, or the larger, is placed on the * Some anatomists call that part of the plexus formed by the left vagus the left oesophageal plexus, and lhat formed by the right vagus the right oeso- phageal plexus. t Wrisberg (Ludwig's Scrip. Nerv. Min. Select, torn. iv. p. 59) says, that he has seen the nervous chords of both vagi unite into a single trunk on the oesophagus, which again divided itself into two branches (right and left vagi) before passing through the diaphragm. posterior surface of the oesophagus, and the left, or the smaller, on its anterior surface* Distribution of the vagus in the abdomen. Left vagus.—As it enters the abdomen it sends some small branches upon the anterior surface of the lower part of the oesophagus, some of which enter the walls of that tube, others anas- tomose with oesophageal twigs from the right vagus, and others are prolonged downwards upon the cardiac end of the stomach. As it proceeds downwards over the cardiac surface of the stomach it also passes towards the right side and forms a curve, the convexity of which looks to the left. From the convexity of this curve several small branches run across the anterior surface of the cardiac orifice and the upper part of the large cut de sac of the sto- mach, and some of these anastomose with filaments from the left portion of the solar plexus, and from the phrenic nerve, f From the concavity several small branches run up- wards and to the right between the layers of the smaller omentum to join the left hepatic plexus.X The left vagus now divides itself into several branches, which pass towards the pyloric surface of the stomach, along the upper edge of the anterior surface of the stomach, very close to the smaller curvature of that organ, and along the lower edge of the coronary artery of the stomach, sending numerous filaments into the nervous plexuses of the sympathetic surrounding the coronary and superior pyloric arteries, and also branches downwards over the anterior surface of the stomach. These latter branches, after running a greater or less distance below the peritoneal covering of the stomach, penetrate the muscular coat where some of their filaments terminate, while others pass through it to reach the mucous coat. The few branches of the left vagus which reach the pyloric orifice are partly distributed upon the walls of that portion of the organ, and partly throw themselves into the cceliac plexus. Some of the filaments of the latter portion may be traced into the numerous plexuses surrounding the gastro-duodenalis branch of the hepatic artery, into the right hepatic plexus, and may sometimes be followed as far as the artery of the gall-bladder. The branches which leave the left vagus as it lies on the anterior surface of the lower part of the oesophagus, and cross the anterior surface of the cardiac orifice of the stomach, divide and subdivide below the peri- toneum in a forked manner, and also anas- tomose freely with each other, forming a kind of plexus which has been termed the anterior cardiac plexus of the stomach. As the branches of the left vagus pass along the smaller curva- ture of the stomach, they not only anastomose freely with the plexuses of the superior coronary and superior pyloric arteries, but with each other, forming a plexus along the upper edge of the anterior surface of the stomach, stretch- ing from the cardiac to the pyloric orifice, * Wrisberg (opus cit.) states, that the vagi send a few filaments to the diaphragm. t Valentin, oper. cit. s. 500. $ Vide Swan's Demonstrations of the Nerves of the Human Body, plate viii. 1830. *