198 ANIMAL LUMINOUSNESS. Fulgora pyrrhor-hyncus candeluria Pyralis minor Acheta gryllotalpa ? Mvri A POD A Scolopendra electrica phosphorea morsitans Julus ? Annelida Nei'eis phosphorous noctiluca cirrigera mucronata Planaria retusa Ecll 1 NODEUMATA Asterias ? Ophiura telactes phosphorea Ac a lephm. Almost all the species of Medusa, Beroe, Physalia, Rhizophora, Stephanomia, and Physophora. Zoophyta Pennatula phosphorea grisea rubra urgentia Infusoria. Many species belonging to the genera Cercaria, Volvox, Vibrio, Trichoda, Lincophaa. With regard to fishes, the statements of naturalists are so contradictory that we still hesitate to admit any of them on the list of truly luminous animals. The sharks, more fre- quently than other fishes, are reported as lumi- nous. The light given out by them is said to proceed from their abdominal surface. When large shoals of fishes are swimming rapidly, flashes of light, broad and deep, are sometimes seen about them and are supposed to be emitted by the fishes themselves. These appear occasionally at very great depths. They have been traced in the British seas to shoals of herrings and the coal-fish ; and Dr. M'Culloch enumerates also the pollack, the pilchard, the sardine, the whiting, the mackarel, and the gar, as being sometimes accompanied by these lights* The common earth-worm is not included in the above list, although several observers have reported it as luminous, because the fact of its being so is not sufficiently determined. It is said to give out light only during the period of propagation. Some voyagers, as Peron, have stated that they have seen sertularia, gorgonice, alcyonia, and sponges give out light immediately after being dredged from the bottom of the sea ; but we sus- pect that in most of these instances the light proceeded not from the zoophytes, but from some li£;ht-givingannelidsparasiticalupon them. This is frequently met with in the British seas. II. Characters and properties of animal light. —It is only in its most obvious qualities that animal light has hitherto been the object of scientific research. In colour and intensity it varies very much at different times in the same animal, and still more in different animals. * Edin. Encycl. art. Phuxjpliorescen.ee. With regard to colour the following varieties occur. In pholas dactylus the light is bluish- white ; in lumpyris noctiluca it is greenish with a shade of blue ; in I. italica, bright blue; in Plater noctilucus, brilliant green, with spots of " the most beautiful golden blue ;" in Fulgora pyrrhorynchus, deep purple and scarlet; in marine animals generally it is white with various shades of blue. Doubtless these differences depend chiefly upon the various colours of the integuments through which the light is seen. In lumpyris italica, there are alternate emis- sions and extinctions of the light, which take place with some degree of regularity and seem to be synchronous with the pulses of the cir- culating current, visible in the wing-cases of this beetle.* The fire-fly (Plater) shews two kinds of light; one constant, like that of the glow-worm, but more feeble; the other a vivid white light suddenly intermitted. Its illuminating power seems to be greater than that possessed by any other animal ; the light emitted from its two thoracic tubercles is so great that the smallest print may be read with it; and in the West Indies, (particularly in St. Domingo, where they are abundant,) the natives use them in- stead of candles in their houses. They also tie them to their feet and heads in travelling at night to give light to their path through the forest. The intermitting of the light in this insect is such as to give an observer the idea of a membranous veil being suddenly drawn over the source of light, and then as suddenly with- drawn. In a species of cancer seen by Smith in the Gulf of Guinea, the light (which seemed to be emitted by the brain) was of a deep blue colour when the animal was at rest; but when it moved, bright coruscations of silvery light were darted from it in all directions. The light of some centipedes inhabiting the islands of the Pacific is of a beautiful emerald-green colour. It is connected with a mucous matter covering the animal, which may be rubbed off by the fingers, and communicates to them a smell not unlike that of muriatic acid. Sometimes the light proceeding from the sea is so white and dull as to give the effect of a sea of milk. This is frequently seen in the Gulf of Guinea, and seems to be caused some- times by the presence of numerous Salpa and Scyllari, at other times by the admixture of the debris of fishes and other marine animals re- cently dead. An extraordinary series of phenomena con- nected with a particular display of the luini- nousness of the sea, is reported by Mr. Hen- derson as having occurred in the Atlantic, (lat. 2° long. 21° 20' W.) on the 5th March, 1821. About 9 p.m. the sea appeared unusu- ally luminous. Every person who kept his eye fixed upon it for but a short time was immedi- ately affected with giddiness, headache, pain in the eyeballs, and slight sickness. Although these symptoms varied in intensity amongst the * A species of lumpyris lately found in New Hol- land is said also to slime in rhythmical pulses. Isis, vol. ii. p. 245.