622 NERVOUS SYSTEM. rhomboidal sinus: this may be seen in the goose. The medulla oblongata, with the py- ramidal and cerebellic fasciculi, present similar characters to the same parts in the fishes; the corpora olivaria, and pons Varolii, are not yet developed. The brain of birds is composed of a similar number of parts as in the reptiles, but they are more highly developed, and they are no longer arranged in a longitudinal series as formerly, but more on the top of each other. In the sea-gull (Larus cymiorhynchus, Jig. 355), snipe (Scolopax gaUinula), red start (Mota- cilla ?), goldfinch (Fringilla carduelis), fowl (Phasianus gallus, Jig. 356), pigeon (Columba- ?), and hawk (Falco nisus), the brain fills entirely the cranial cavity, this cavity now corresponding exactly with the size and form of the head. It is of increased re- lative size compared with the body: in a pi- geon, weighing according to Carus 3360 grains, the brain weighed 37 grains; the proportions being as 100 : 9,100. On taking a review of its structure, we find three principal portions, as heretofore, to oc- cupy our attention, the conformation of each being very uniform in the whole class : 1st, the cerebral hemispheres; 2d, the optic lobes; 3d, the cerebellum. 1st. The cerebral hemispheres, or first cere- bral mass, are large (figs. 355, 356, a, a), of greater relative size than any other parts of the brain, and vary but little in form; in the embryo Fig. 355. Brain and portion of spinal marrow of Larus cyano- rhynchus (sea-grill), about natural size, a, a, first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres. b, b, second cerebral mass or optic lobes, c, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, with its transverse grooves, d, spinal cord, with its posterior longi- tudinal fissure. chick on the sixteenth day, however, I found them very little larger than the optic lobes (fig. 357, a). In the sea-gull and snipe they are of an oblong form, and larger posteriorly; in the hawk more round and short; in the red-start, goldfinch, pigeon, and embryo chick, on the twentieth day, more lengthened in form and covering quite the optic lobes (fig. 357, a). In the ostrich they are also lengthened and approach very much the form and characters of the same parts in the lower Mammalia. These hemispheres are united to each other by a commissure (the anterior commissure); above Comparative Anatomy.) Fig. 356. Fig. 357. Fig. 356. Brain and portion of spinal cord of P/ut- sianus gallus (fowl), embryo state, age 16 days, slightly magnified. a, a, first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres of a triangular form, b, b, second cerebral mass or optic lobes, touching at their inner borders, c, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, small, d, spinal cord, with its posterior longitudinal fissure, g, olfactory nerves. Fig. 357. The same, age 20 days, slightly magnified. a, a, first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres, oval in form, b, b, second cerebral mass or optic lobes, widely separated from each other, c, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, greatly increased in developement and pushing asunder the oplic lobes. d, spinal cord, with its posterior longitudinal fissure. g, olfactory nerves. this there is another one, which Meckel con- siders as the first rudiment of the corpus cal- losum ;* they contain cavities which are true lateral ventricles, and in which is a tubercle or enlargement corresponding to the corpus stri- atum of the Mammalia. From the anterior part of this primary cerebral mass the olfactory nerves arise (figs. 356, 357, g, g), and pass forwards to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; their origin is marked by two distinct enlargements, which are hollow and communi- cate with the lateral ventricle. 2d. The optic lobes, or second cerebral mass, (fig. 355, b), are of small size, and are more widely separated from each other than in the preceding classes, though they still are con- nected by a medullary membrane correspond- ing to the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius. In the embryo of the chick on the sixteenth day, however, these parts, as before observed, are nearly as large as the cerebral hemispheres, their inner borders touching each other, as in the reptiles and fishes (fig. 357, b) : at the twen- tieth day they are widely separated (Jig. 356 b). In the sea-gull (Jig. 355), snipe, hawk, red- start, goldfinch, fowl, and pigeon, they are of a rounded form, and situated immediately be- neath the cerebral hemispheres. On cutting into them in the sea-gull and pigeon, they are found to contain a cavity, which, in the former, is very small, in the latter larger, and con- taining a solitary dark-coloured tubercle: their cavities communicate with the third ventricle. Between these optic lobes, and immediately inferior to the cerebral hemi- spheres, in the pigeon, there is situated a pair of ganglia, of a flattened form (the ex- istence of which has been before noticed in the * Archiv. fur Physiologie.