NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Cekebro-spinal Fluid.) 643 some time occasioned a preternatural amount Lassaigne's analysis of the human fluid yielded of pressure* the following result. Majendie infers, and as it appears to me Water 98.564 with justice, that the cerebrospinal fluid is Albumen 0.088 secreted from the vessels of the pia mater. Osmazome 0.474 He states that, when a portion of the pia mater Hydrochlorate of soda and ) q qqi is exposed in a living animal, " an attentive of potass S eye may observe the transpiration of a liquid Animal matter and phos- ^ Q 03g which evaporates, it is true, almost as soon as phate of soda } it appears, but which is sufficient to prevent Carbonate of soda and phos-^ 0017 the drying of the membrane." " To render phate of lime S this phenomenon of vital physics still more — manifest," he adds, " it is necessary to inject 99.980 a certain quantity of water, at 30° R., into the veins of the animal which is subjected to the According to M. Couerbe, some of the secon- experiment; immediately the liquid exhalation dary organic products which he has obtained of the pia mater takes place in a more rapid from the brain are to be found in this fluid, manner, and consequently becomes more ap- The following constituents are enumerated by parent." We ought to be content with M. this chemist: 1. an animal matter insoluble Majendie's statement respecting this experi- in alcohol and ether, but soluble in alkalis; ment: the point in question is by no means of 2. albumen; 3. cholesterine ; 4. cerebrate; sufficient consequence to warrant the repetition 5. chloride of sodium; 6. phosphate of lime; of so cruel an experiment. 7. salts of potass; 8. salts of magnesia. Mnjendie's experiments have demonstrated What is the use of the cerebro-spinal fluid? further that this fluid can be as quickly rege- An obvious mechanical use of this fluid is to nerated as the aqueous humour of the eye. protect the nervous centres with which it lies He found that on puncturing the theca of the in immediate contact. By the interposition of spinal cord, and perforating both layers of a liquid medium between the nervous mass arachnoid membrane, the fluid quickly escapes and the wall of the cavity in which it is placed, at first as a fine continuous jet, and afterwards provision is made against a too ready con- fer saltum in correspondence with the efforts duction of vibrations from the one to the of expiration. If die orifice be closed up and other. Were these centres surrounded by ma- the animal left to go at large for twenty-four terial of one kind only, the slightest vibrations hours, the fluid is reproduced in as conside- or shocks would be continually felt, but when rable quantity as before the first experiment. different materials on different planes are used, What has been described as the movement the surest means are provided to favour the of this liquid consists in an alternate elevalion dispersion of such vibrations, and collapse synchronous with expiration and The nervous mass floats in the midst of this inspiration, seen only when a portion of the fluid, being maintained in equilibrio in it by cranio-spinal wall has been removed, and its uniform pressure on all sides, and the spinal caused by the repletion of the venous system cord, as we shall find by-and-bye, is supported of the spine which occurs in the former state by an additional mechanism which prevents of the respiratory movements, and its collapse its lateral displacement. which takes place in the latter. The distended By its accumulation at the base of the brain, spinal veins compress the cerebro-spinal fluid, this fluid must protect the larger vessels and and cause it to rise towards the head in expi- the nerves situate there from the unequal pres- ration; their collapse in inspiration favours sure of neighbouring parts, the movement of the fluid in the contrary It is not improbable also that this fluid may direction. We have no evidence from experi- contribute to the nutrition of the brain and ment or direct observation that there is any spinal cord, by holding in solution their proper movement in the fluid of the ventricles; but nutrient elements preparatory to their absorption the discovery of cilia upon the inner surface of or addition to the nervous masses themselves; these cavities seems to indicate that this fluid and this view would receive great support if is not quite stationary within them. Couerbe's analysis, which detects some of these The following account of the physical and elementary matters in the fluid, should be con- chemical properties of the cerebro-spinal fluid firmed by the observations of other chemists, is derived from Majendie's researches. When Nor must we omit to notice here, the fact as- removed from the body a few moments after certained by Majendie, that when certain sub- death, this fluid is remarkably limpid, and stances which find their way readily into the may be compared in this respect to the aqueous blood have been in jected into the veins, they humour of the eye; sometimes it has a slightly may be soon after detected in this fluid, such yellowish tinge. In temperature it ranks as iodide of potassium. among the hottest parts of the body. It has a Majendie observed serious symptoms to sickly odour and a saltish taste; it is alkaline, ensue upon the removal of this fluid from restoring the blue colour of reddened litmus, living dogs, but it is impossible to ascribe such symptoms solely to this cause, for the intro- * See an important paper by the late Dr. Sims duction of ail' int° the subarachnoid cavity, the on serous effusion in the brain, Med. Cbir. Trans, disturbance and consequent irritation to which vol. xix. the nervous centres must necessarily be ex' 2 t 2 '