236 MAMMALIA. number and persistency of their sutures, are intermediate in character to those of Birds and Reptiles. The anterior extremity of the skull is always formed by both the upper and lower jaws. The scapula is generally an expanded plate of bone; the coracoid, with two excep- tions, appears as a small process of the scapula : the clavicle is inconstant as to its presence ; the sternum consists of a narrow and usually simple series of bones; the sternal portions of the ribs are generally cartilaginous, and fixed to the vertebral portions without the interposition of a distinct articulation ; there are no abdominal ribs or abdominal sternum. The pubic and ischial arches are generally complete, and united together by bony confluence on the sternal aspect, so that the interspace of the two bony pelvic arches is converted into two holes, called foramina obturatoria, or thyroidea. The brain in Mammalia consists of cerebral and optic lobes, cerebellum and medulla ob- longata, but the optic lobes are placed on the upper part of the crura cerebri, are solid, are always divided by a transverse fissure, and are generally concealed by the cerebral lobes, in consequence of the large relative size of these masses; the decussation of the corpora pyrami- dalia is always distinctly marked: the tuber annulare and lateral lobes of the cerebellum have a correspondingly conspicuous develop- ment; the ventricles of the cerebrum are large, and contain a corpus striatum and cornu am- monis; the fornix is always well developed, but the following aphorisms in Cuvier's cele- brated abstract or condensation of M. Serres' prize essay are applicable only to the placental Mammalia, viz. " The corpus callosutn as well as the pons Varolii are peculiar to Mammalia. The corpus callosum is developed in direct proportion to the size of the corpora striata and hemispheres. It increases progressively from Rodentia to Man. The corpus collosum is developed in direct proportion to the de- velopment of the tuber annulare." In the Marsupial Order, as in the Kangaroo and Wombat, the cerebral hemispheres are relatively larger and more complicated with convolutions than in any Rodent, yet the trans- verse commissure which represents the rudi- ment of the corpus callosum connects only the hippocampi majores ; it is not separated from the fornix by any septum lucidum ; and, upon divaricating the cerebral hemispheres, the la- teral ventricles are as much exposed as when, in placental Mammalia, the corpus callosum has been removed. The tuber annulare, how- ever, exists in the Marsupial as in the Placental Mammalia, and illustrates its correlation with the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The class Mammalia is the only one in which the cere- bral hemispheres are observed to have their vascular superficies multiplied or increased by convolutions, which arrive at their maximum of development in Man. The olfactory nerves of mammals are soft, and divide into numerous branches in the cranium, which pass out by the orifices of the cribriform plate of the aethmoid. The nervi vagi principally supply the larynx, form a plexus around the oesophagus, and do not unite into a single trunk before passing to the stomach. The left recurrent nerve, and not the right, bends round the trunk of the aorta. The cervical portion of the sympathetic nerve passes along the neck on the sternal aspect of the transverse processes of the vertebra; and its trunk in the thorax and abdomen is not immediately connected with the ganglia of the spinal nerves. The splanchnic nerves form large ganglia before giving off the visceral plexuses. The sclerotic coat of the eye is a fibrous membrane, and never contains bony plates. In the quantity of aqueous humour and the convexity of the lens, Mammals are generally intermediate to Birds and Fishes; but they have no marsupium or pecten, nor any cho- roid gland. The organ of hearing is characterized in Mammalia by the full development of the cochlea with a lamina spiralis ; there are three distinct ossicles in the tympanum ; the mein- brana tympani is generally concave externally, and the meatus auditorius extemus often com- mences with a complicated external ear, having a distinct cartilaginous basis. The external apertures of the organ of smell are provided in Mammalia with moveable cartilages and muscles, and the extent of the internal organ is increased by accessary cavities or sinuses which communicate with the pas- sages including the turbinated bones. The tongue is always soft and fleshy, and its gustatory surface is provided with conical, fos- sulate, and fungiform papillae ; it is supplied by a large proportion of the third division of the fifth pair of nerves, as well as by the ninth and glosso-pharyngeal. Classification.—The Mammalia were first separated from other four-footed animals and distinguished as a class or particular group (genos) by Aristotle, the founder of natural history, by whom they were denominated Zootoka, or Viviparous animals. The Greek philosopher divided the Zootoka, according to the nature of their locomotive organs, into three sections: 1st, Dipoda, or bipeds; 2d, Tetrapoda, or quadrupeds; and 3d, Apoda, or impeds, which comprehends the Whale- tribe. The second of these primary divisions, —the quadrupeds,—which includes by far the largest proportion of the class, and in common parlance is considered as the class itself, is subdivided by Aristotle into two great natural groups, according to the modifications of the organs of touch. In the first of these groups, the extremities of the digits are left free for the exercise of the tactile sense, the nail or claw being placed on one side only (Ungui- culata of Ray); in the second group, the digits are inclosed in hoofs (Ungulata of Ray). For the convenience of treating of the different forms of the Unguiculate quadrupeds, Aristotle employs for their further subdivision another system of organs, viz. the teeth. His first group or family is composed of those Unguiculates which have the front teeth trenchant, or termi- nating in a cutting edge, and the back teeth