NECK. 581 approaches the root of the neck than in adult growth, and, as also the branches arising from it, may more easily be endangered in trache- otomy and other operations in the neighbour- hood. Its length is somewhat above an inch : its direction obliquely upward and outward, toward the steino-clavicular joint, opposite to which it divides. In this course it corres- ponds, behind, to the trachea,—in front to the sternum, from which the remains of the thy- mus gland, the origin of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and (close to its origin) the transverse crossing of the left vena mno- minata separate it,—externally, to its accom- panying vein, and, mediately, to the pleura,— internally, to the left carotid from which it is separated by a triangular interval in which the thymus, or its remnant, lies upon the trachea. The frequency of its undue extension be- yond the precise limit assigned to it, and con- sequent appearance in the sub-hyoid region of the neck, together with the fact of its often furnishing a middle inferior thyroid artery, are contingencies never to be disregarded in ope- rations thereabout. This artery has now been tied for cure of aneurism at least six times; unsuccessfully— it is true—but with such nearness to success as not to forbid cautious repetition. The mode of procedure adopted by Dr. Mott consisted in a transverse division of the skin, muscles, and fasciae along the edge of the clavicle and sternum,—in raising these, and taking the sub- clavian and carotid arteries (which he seems to have denuded to some extent) as guides to the innominata, in drawing the jugular vein, the vagus, phrenic and recurrent nerves outwards, in pressing the pleura carefully downwards with the convexity of the needle, while he carried its point from below upwards around the vessel. 6. The digastric space is bounded below by the curve of the digastric muscle, and extends above within the angle and horizontal ramus of the jaw, so that, if considered as a triangle, it may be described as having its base represented by the internal oblique (or myloid) ridge of the lower jaw, and an imaginary prolongation of this to the root of the mastoid process,.—its an- terior border formed by the ascending belly of the digastric muscle,—its posterior by the de- scending fibres of the same; and its apex will obviously be at the point of their reflexion by the hyoid bone. The skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, and the cervical aponeurosis, wall it in, and that part of the inferior maxilla which lies beneath the oblique line, to the ba- sial edge of which the fascia adheres, overhangs it; its deep surface is constituted by the mylo- hyoid muscle and by the side of the tongue and pharynx in front, by the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone behind. A iibrous slip, reflected outwardly from the sty- loid process to the angle of the jaw, and to the deep surface of the aponeurosis, distinctly di- vides the digastric space into two parts. Of these, the posterior is the smaller; its vertical extent is to the temporo-maxillary articulation : backwards it is bounded by the auditory canal and mastoid process; inwardly, by the vaginal plate, the styloid process and its muscles. In the anterior direction the border of the jaw, to- gether with the septum just described, are its limits : whence it seems, within the neck of the jaw, to prolong itself as an interspace between the attachments of the pterygoid muscles. Between the unyielding walls of this nar- row space, the parotid gland contracts itself into a wedge-like form, reaches in the one direction to the styloid process and is folded round it, in the other is prolonged with the max- illary vessels between the insertions of the pterygoidei. In its substance the external ca- rotid ascends to its terminal subdivision,—the portio dura curves from the stylo-mastoid fora- men, and breaks into the lash of communicating branches, known as pes anserinus,—the roots of the external jugular vein unite to assume that name,—and junctions of the portio dura with the superficial temporal nerve, and with the auri- cular branch of the cervical plexus, are met with. Its remarkable impaction behind the jaw is probably designed for affecting its func- tion by the mechanical stimulus of the masti- catory movements. Its enlargement may in- conveniently hinder these motions, and, where accompanied by much induration, actually lock the jaw. The merely anatomical difficulties of extirpating the parotid gland have probably been somewhat over-rated ; but cases requiring the operation must be of exceeding rareness. Absorbent glands lie on many points of its sur- face, and in its substance ; their enlargement is frequent, and has been mistaken, in several instances, for an affection of the parotid itself. The arteries met with in this space are all branches of the external carotid : the occipital and auricular follow its posterior border, the latter usually traversing a part of the gland ; the temporal artery emerges at the upper, the transverse facial at the anterior edge of the pa- rotid, while from its deep portion the internal maxillary passes forward, within the neck of the jaw, toward the zygomatic fossa. The anterior division of the digastric space considerably exceeds the posterior in size : its vertical extent behind is from the curve of the digastric up to the outward surface of the buccal mucous membrane, where reflected from the molar alveoli to the side of the tongue ; but an- teriorly it seems to be limited by the lower sur- face of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and so to be shallower; though, in reality, this is not the case, for the muscle referred to merely forms a partial septum, dividing the shallow and super- ficial pait, just mentioned, from a deeper, sub- lingual portion of great importance. The ante- rior division of the digastric space may accord- ingly be considered as bounded above by the mucous membrane of the mouth in its reflexion from the oblique line of the jaw to the border of the tongue, in an extent reaching from the base of the coronoid process to the symphysis ; and, internally, by the side of the tongue, (presenting the muscular substance of the genio- hyoideus, genio-hyoglossus, hyoglossus, and stylo-glossus,) and by that of the pharynx. It is only in front that the mylo-hyoid muscle, as