1010 PISCES. in the eloacal cavity (s, s), these folds gradually subside into a few simple plications. In some species (Mustelus, Cuv.) of these viviparous Sharks a very close attachment is formed between the walls of the uterine portion of the oviduct and the contained ovum, so much so indeed as to remind the anatomist very for- cibly of the placental connection that exists in the Mammifera. In these, according to J. Miiller, the ovum, on its arrival in the oviduct, is only covered with a kind of membranous in- vestment or chorion, which is as thin and de- licate as the amnion of Mammalia, and without apparent organization. The sac which this membrane forms is seven or eight times as long as the vitellus, and its walls being regularly plicated, are embraced by corresponding folds of the lining membrane of the oviduct, so that there is a very intimate adhesion between the two. In the oviparous races of the plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes the structure of the oviduct is somewhat different, in order to pro- vide for the formation of the egg-shell or horny envelope wherein the egg is contained when extruded from the body, the organization of which is not a little curious. The glandular portion of the oviduct is extremely thick, or rather is enclosed in a dense glandular mass (rudimental gland), the substance of which is entirely made up of close-set transverse secern- ing tubes, which pour their secretion into the oviduct through innumerable orifices, which are aggregated together in a part where the course of the lining membrane of the oviducal canal is interrupted, and free passage thus left for the escape of the rudimental secretion, which, be- coming thus deposited on the surface of the egg, hardens into a tough horny substance, which constitutes its external covering or egg- shell. The shape of these eggs is remarkable ; the egg-shell when completed resembles an ob- long horny pillow-case, the four corners of which are prolonged into tendril-like processes, the use of which appears to be that they serve as anchors by becoming interlaced with the branches of submarine plants or ramose corals, and thus preserve the egg and its delicate con- tents from being washed away by the agitation of the waves. From the tough coriaceous or horny texture of these egg-shells, another pro- vision becomes necessary, in order that the mature embryo shall be enabled to escape from confinement and enter upon an independent existence. In the eggs of Birds this is abun- dantly provided for by the brittle texture of the calcareous substance in which they are en- closed, allowing the chick to break its way out of its fragile covering, a mode of egress which, in the case before us, would evidently be im- practicable. This difficulty is met by a very beautiful contrivance. The horny walls of the eggs of the plagiostome Fishes are continuous all round, except at one extremity, where, to use a homely illustration, the end of the pillow- case remains unsewn, the edges of the slit thus left being merely kept in apposition by the elasticity of the horny envelope. By this ele- gant arrangement all intrusion from without is effectually prevented, and at the same time, seeing that the valves will separate on the ap- plication of a very slight pressure from within, they soon yield to the efforts of the young fish to escape from its cradle, and afterwards close again so accurately that it is difficult, without attentive examination, to detect the existence of the fissure. As amongst mammiferous animals certain races are provided with a marsupium or pouch, in which their immature young are carried about for a considerable period previous to their birth, so do we find certain Fishes provided Viscera of Syngnathus acusf male'). a, liver; b, communication between the swim- ming bladder and the alimentary canal; c, sto- mach ; d, intestine ; f, allantoid bladder; g, gg, testes ; m, kidney ; n, marsupial pouch ; o, o, cells in interior of ditto.