(Comparative Anatomy.) NERVOUS SYSTEM. 606 ganglia. They appear to be peculiar to Patella, but ate found more distinctly developed in the Cephalopoda. Fig. 340 is a repre- sentation of the nervous system of Chiton Mai-- moratus from the dissec- tion of Mr. Garner, in which the annular form of the nervous system is very perfect. The animal presents many points of resemblance to Patella, and there is essentially the same arrangement of its nervous system. The absence of ganglia on the upper part of the ring (() is attributed by Mr. Gar- ner to the want of eyes and of tentacles. In Aplysia there is Marmwatus. an anterior or cerebral B, pedal ganglion, ganglion resulting from C, branchial ganglion, the function of two D, pharyngeal ganglion.above the oesophagus i, upper portion of ner-(c fi„ 34 n from whjch vousnng (cerebral gan-small nerves pass tQ form the pharyngeal gan- glion (/)) beneath the pharynx: from this two nerves pass backwards to form the pedal gan- glion, which also gives nerves to supply the mantle (P), and in the posterior part of the body there is an additional ganglion, the branchial (B,Jig. 341). Fig. 341. Fig. 342. Nervous system of Chiton Nervous system of Aplysia. In Sct/llcca, according to Mr. Garner, the brain is entirely supra-cesophageal; it appears to be composed of four united ganglia, pro- bably the cerebral and branchial. The foot has become too insignificant to require appropriate ganglia. Mr. Garner has noticed two minute black spots, one on each side of the brain, composed probably of black pigment, which he considers to be rudimentary of eyes. Nervous system of Scyllcea Pelagica. A, cerebral ganglion. D, pharyngeal ganglion. c, d, i, visceral branches. In Limax ater (common slug) the nervous system is apparently much more simple; but on a little examination it will be found to con- sist of the same essential parts. A large supra- cesophageal ganglion, bilobed, constitutes the brain (a, jig. 343), from each side of which a pair of nerves passes downwards to join a large sub- oesophageal ganglion, which supplies nerves to the respiratory sac and to the foot or loco- motive apparatus. And the pharyngeal ganglia are, as in Patella, con- nected with theanterior ganglion. In the sub- cesophageal ganglion we see, conjoined, the pedal and branchial ganglia. In Buccinum unda- tum the principal ner- vous mass is sub-ceso- phageal, and from it nerves pass to the bran- chiae and viscera, and also to the foot and integument. The for- mer nerves form a gan- glion, which may be regarded as the bran- Nervous system of the com- chial gan<dion.l* mo\ black sln9 {Umax f .1 0 J ater). For the nervous sys- a> £upra - oesophageal tems of Fteropoda and ganglion, b, infra-ceso- Cephulopuda, see the phageal ganglion, d, an- articles under those terior sub - oesophageal titles. ganglions. Articulata.—In taking a general survey of the structure of the articulated animals, we observe that their body is divided into a certain definite number of segments, each one of which * See Garner's paper, loc. cit.