ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 794 which combines the application of moderate heat with Leslie's method, already described, may be advantageously employed, though the manipulation is rather complicated and trouble- some. In a counterpoised retort which will sustain exhaustion, a given weight of the sub- stance to be dried is placed and connected with a tubulated receiver containing oil of vitriol, by a sound cork secured on the exterior with several folds of bladder, well soaked before applying it. Through the tubulure of the receiver passes a small glass tube. This junction likewise is ren- dered air-tight, with a cork and bladder. The tube, aboutaninch from the tubulure,is,previous to its insertion, drawn out and narrowed to a capillary bore, so that at pleasure it may be easily drawn off'and sealed by a jet of flame from the blowpipe. Matters being thus arranged, the tube from the receiver is united by a connecter of caoutchouc with another tube, and this again with the air-pump, and exhaustion is performed. When a sufficient vacuum has been produced, the whole is allowed to stand for an hour If, at the end of that time, the mercury in the gauge retain its level, the apparatus is air-tight and may be detached from the pump by seal- ing the tube proceeding from the receiver in its capillary portion. We may now apply a gentle heat to the bulb of the retort by means of a water bath, or otherwise, and can cool the receiver. Great caution is of course requisite in handling the exhausted vessels, as the slightest abrasion of the surface might cause fracture. In some cases, as in drying blood, a tempe- rature of 230° may be safely used by employing a boiling solution of Rochelle salt as the exte- rior bath ; and in the analysis of the bile a heat of even 260° is recommended by Berzelius. Where sugar or urea is present, even a heat of 200° is injurious, and must therefore be avoided. The operation we are now considering appears one of the simplest that the chemist can have to perform, but I have been induced to dwell the longer upon it as it is one from which, without great care, more mistakes arise than from any other, owing to the pertinacity with which water adheres to most organic substances. The temperature attainable in an open basin over the water bath is much lower than we should, a priori, have been led to imagine. I found, for example, that the temperature of some wheat flour thus drying in an open basin was only 144° F., whilst the water in the bath continued steadily at 196° F. When the basin was covered with a piece of paper, a tempe- rature of 161° F. was the highest attained, while a thermometer placed in the water of the bath stood at 194° F. With liquids eva- porating it rises somewhat higher ; when plain water was evaporated it stood at 164°, the water in the bath being 208°; and in the case of a viscid fluid like yeast, it varied between 176° and 180°, while the bath raised a thermometer inserted in it to 210°. It is therefore desirable to have an appa- ratus in which we can ensure any given tempe- rature from 212° upwards. For this purpose Liebig has contrived a kind of hot-water oven, consisting of a double box of copper; in the interval between the outer and inner walls, water, saline solutions, or oil, may be poured and heated in the usual way. In one side of this box is a door which may be closed when necessary. The interior chamber and its con- tents can thus be maintained with certainty at the same temperature as that of the fluid around them. The best plan of proceeding consists in evaporating liquids to apparent dryness upon the open water bath; and afterwards subjecting the solid residue, when a temperature of 212° is not injurious, to complete desiccation in Liebig's oven. So long as the material under examination loses weight, the application of heat must be continued. Capsules of Wedgewood ware or Berlin porcelain are indispensable, and one or two small platinum dishes will be found most valu- able, especially in the evaporation of albu- minous fluids, as the dry residue adheres so strongly to the glaze of earthen vessels that a portion of the basin is invariably removed along with the animal matter, which thus ac- quires an undue increase of weight, and the surface of the vessel becomes rough and unfit for use from the difficulty of cleaning it. The Berlin porcelain crucibles are excellent vessels for evaporation, as, being fitted with covers, the dry residue may be preserved from absorbing moisture during the operation of weighing, by exposure to air. It may be worthy of no- tice that adhering organic substances may be removed from the surface of vessels in which they have been kept, by digestion in concen- trated nitric or sulphuric acid, or else by strong solution of potash. Incineration of the dry residue is accom- plished by taking a counterpoised porcelain or platinum capsule with a determinate quantity, say 10 or 12 grains, of the material to be burned, and heating it over a circular wicked spirit-lamp until the ash completely loses its black colour. The capsule should at first be covered to pre- vent loss by dispersion on the first application of heat; when visible fumes cease to arise, the cover may be removed to allow freer access of air; as, however, the temperature rises higher when the vessel is covered, it will often be found advantageous to leave it loosely covered and maintain a steady heat; sufficient air finds access to consume the carbonaceous matter. Sometimes the ash maybe stirred carefully with a platinum wire in order to expose it more fully to the air. When the ash contains alkaline phosphates, the last traces of carbon are burned off with difficulty, as the phosphates fuse and protect the unburned particles from the further action of the air. This inconvenience may be overcome by moistening the residue (after the capsule has been allowed to cool) with a few drops of nitric acid, and again igniting, repeat- ing this manoeuvre as often as may be neces- sary. A new difficulty, however, arises when chlorides are present, as is almost always the case; for at a high temperature these salts are decomposed by nitric acid, and the residue therefore appears to contain less chlorine than is really combined with it.