MYRIAPODA. 549 overlajjs the greater number of the pieces belonging to the mouth. The second segment, by far the larger and the stronger of the two, and, in fact, from the density of its corneous envelope, the strongest segment of the whole body, is entirely devoted to the support and movement of a pair of sharp bi-articulate and hooked fangs resembling jaws, that move trans- versely like the (so-called) mandibles of a Spider, but which are in reality only modifica- tions of the ambulatory feet converted into instruments for killing prey, each being per- forated near its sharp termination with a long oval slit, through which venom is said to be instilled into the wound inflicted by this formidable weapon. The head properly so called, namely the circular shield-like plate seen upon the dorsal surface at the anterior extremity of the body, although apparently consisting of a simple horny disc, is doubtless composed of several segments conjoined superiorly ; indeed, these are completely confused, and inferiorly are too soft and membranous to be distinguished, except by the presence of those articulated appendages, which, although forming parts of the mouth, are still merely repetitions of the jointed legs affixed to the other segments of the body. Thus the most superficial plate, with its articu- lated appendage, the labium and labial pa/pus of entomologists, is but an incomplete ventral scutum, with its articulated limb in a rudimen- tary condition as compared with those of the body, and is even armed with a distinct claw, as are the locomotive legs. In like manner the second pair, the maxilla of authors, are legs but one step further removed from their normal form, but not more so than are the poison- fangs already described. In the third pair or mandibles we have a leg reduced to its terminal claw, and that is broad and serrated so as to become useful in manducalion. Lastly, the corneous and serrated piece (the Iribrum) seems to be the last vestige left of limbs of this description, the two horny remnants of legs having become consolidated with each other and with the dorsal head-plate, so as to form the anterior boundary of the mouth. Alimentary canal.—The alimentary canal in all the Myriapoda is of extremely simple con- struction, and both in its form and general arrangement, very nearly resembles that of the larvae of Lepidopterous Insects. In Julus ter- restris (fig. 311) the oesophagus (/*) is seen to be of considerable capacity, in accordance with the nature of the coarse food upon which these vegetable-eating species live. The stomach is long and bowel-like, extending from the termi- nation of the oesophagus to the insertion of the hepatic vessels. To this succeeds a wide and sacculated colon, which passes directly to the anal segment of the body, where it terminates. In the Scolopendroid genera the same con- formation of the alimentary apparatus is met with, the stomach and intestine passing straight from the mouth to the anus without any pecu- liarities of structure worthy of notice. In Lithobius J'orficutus, which we may take as a specimen of one of the Chilopod Myrja- Fig. 311. (I "I poda, a very similar arrangement exists; the oesophagus, which is pro- portionately narrow, ends in a simple stomachal enlargement of an oblong shape, and this termi- nates in a straight bowel, the point of separation be- Ji> JMiHtit\ tween the one and the other being only indicated by the entrance of the biliary vessels. The glands connected with the alimentary ap- paratus closely resemble those of the insect larva. Two convoluted salivary tubes are seen folded up at the sides of the oeso- phagus, where their con- volutions are intervolved into a species of ravel (Jig. 311, i) with the origins of the hepatic ves- sels (//), which latter, after a tortuous course, are in- serted, as in Insects, at the termination of the sto- machal portion of the di- gestive tube. Respiratory System.— The Myriapoda respire in the same manner as In- sects by means of late- ral spiracles and tracheal tubes. The spiracular ori- fices are, in the Scolo- pendridae, very conspi- cuous, as, for example, in Lithobius, (Jig. 312,) where the corneous lips of the apertures leading to the tracheae (.?, s, s, s) are seen situated behind the origins of the legs, upon the sides of the 2d, 4th, 6th, 9th, 11th, Kith, and 15th segments, occur- ring upon the alternate segments, except in the case of the 8th, where there is one missed. The tracheae derived from these Vtl'j'i'lfJtJ£ spiracles pass inwards to be disbributed upon all the viscera, ramifying in every part of the body, and thus conveying air throughout the system. In structure these air-vessels exactly resemble those of true Insects, and are equally characterized by the existence of a spiral fibre in their interior, whereby they are always kept permeable. Circulatory system.—In the nature of their circulatory apparatus the Myriapoda are closelv related to the Insects properly so called. A long dorsal vessel passes from the tail towards the head along the mesial line of the body. The sides of this vessel, on clearing away tho