PISCES. 962 In the Cyprinida this bone is of very rudi- mentary size, and is totally wanting in the Murcenida, the Anarrhicus, and the Silurida. The carpal bones, which support all the rays of the pectoral fin except the first, are gene- rally placed, as above described, in a single row consisting of four or five pieces, but occa- sionally each of these bones presents a con- striction near its middle, so as to have the appearance of being divided into two. It is the bones of the carpus, and not those of the arm or fore-arm, which are elon- gated to give the pediculated structure to the feet of the frog-fishes, making them look like arms. In Lophius these are only two in num- ber; in Polypterus there are three, and in Batrachus five. In these Fishes the radius and ulna are reduced to a very small size. Posterior extremity.—The os innominatum, the femur, the bones of the leg and of the tarsus, are all represented in the osseous Fishes by a single bone (fig. 493, 12) of a triangular shape, and presenting several processes and prominent lamella?. The apex of this triangle is directed forwards, and in the subrachial Fishes is attached in the angle formed by the junction of the two ossa humeri (11), at the point where the latter bones are united to each other by symphysis beneath the throat. In the true abdominal Fishes the pelvic apparatus is unattached to any part of the skeleton, being simply imbedded in the muscles beneath the belly. The posterior extremity of the piece last men- tioned gives attachment to the rays of the ventral fin (13), at the inner margin of which it not unfrequently gives off a long process extending backwards. The two pelvic pieces of the op- posite sides are most frequently united to each other by a suture; but it sometimes happens that they remain partially separated either to- wards their anterior part, as in Lophius, or pos- teriorly, as in Batracfius. Many Fishes, as Mumna, Gymnotus, Xi- phias, &c. have no ventral fins, and in such cases the pelvic apparatus is altogether wanting. Fin rays of the extremities.—These rays, with the exception of the most external one belonging to the ventral fin, are all soft and composed of numerous articulations, but to- wards their base they are more compact than elsewhere, the articulations being there scarcely visible. The base of each ray is enlarged so as to permit of its being firmly attached to the radial bone and to those of the carpus and pelvis. The first ray of the pectoral fin is rarely branched, and its articulations are sometimes so completely consolidated as to simulate a spinous ray. This is the case, for instance, in Silurus among many other Fishes; but in such cases they are not really spinous rays in spite of their near resemblance, but derivations from the dermal skeleton, so that such Fishes are in all respects strictly malacopterygious. Verticaljins.—The vertical fins of the osseous Fishes, namely, the dorsal, the caudal, and the anal fins, cannot be compared to any portions of the skeletons met with in other Vertebrata. They belong, in fact, to the exoskeleton (see Osseous System), but are so intimately re- lated to the real bones both in structure and office, that they must be described in this place as being essentially connected with the bony framework of the body. Every one of the vertical rays entering into the composition of these fins consists of two portions, an interspinous bone, which is im- bedded in the flesh of the fish between the great lateral muscles, and serves as a basis to which the ray is attached, and the ray itself, which is visible externally and generally assists in supporting the membrane of the fin. Interspinous bones—The interspinous bones form a series reaching along the back to an ex- tent proportioned to the length of the dorsal fin, and in a similar manner are appended be- neath the post-abdominal region of the ventral surface coextensively with the anal fin, which they resemble. Each interspinousbone(fig.493, 3, 3, 6, 6) resembles in its shape the blade of a dagger plunged into the flesh, while its head eor- respondingwith the handle of the dagger remains on a level with the skin to-give attachment to the base of the ray. This portion of the inter- spinous bone has an apophysis conjoined with it by suture, which in many instances is pro- longed into a point that is connected to the articulation of the next ray of the fin. The interspinous bones are generally so disposed that their points penetrate between the spinous processes of the vertebrae, each being attached to these processes by a ligamentous membrane; but there are some Fishes, as the Plcuronectidts (Jig- 493), and (as regards the composition of the anal fin) the Siluri, in which there are two interspinous bones to each spinous process, and in other cases the relations between the two be- come quite lost, as, for example, where three or even four spinous processes are interposed be- tween some of the vertebral spines, a fact which in itself is sufficient to disprove the hypothesis of Geoffroy, extensively promulgated in this coun- try by the writings of Professor Grant, namely, that the interspinous bones of Fishes are dis- memberments of the spinous processes, one- half of the latter becoming displaced and forming the interspinous bone as well as the ray which it supports. On this point Cuvier remarks that in many genera, such as Muraena, Ophicephalus, and Gymnotus, the inferior interspinous bones are separated from the vertebrae by the cavity of the abdomen, which is prolonged to a consi- derable distance beyond the commencement of the anal fin; whilst in other cases, as in the Pleuronectidae, there are interspinous bones even upon the cranium (fig. 493,1). These cir- cumstances, joined to the fact that in those por- tions of the back or of the tail which have no fins attached to them there are generally no interspi- nous processesalthough there are vertebral spines, make it impossible to regard the bones in question as being derivations from the vertebral column. Rays of the vertical fins.—Each fin-ray (fig. 493, 2, 7) is connected with its corresponding interspinous bone by a ginglymoid articulation. The rays are of two kinds : spinous rays, such as