777 OPTIC NERVES. optic nerve; but the more obvious effect of this organization is to increase the surface of the nervous material. A similar contrivance is at times resorted to in the nervous centres, as is exemplified in the cerebral hemispheres ; these masses in the higher and more intelligent animals being covered with large convolutions and deep sulci, while in the lower classes they are smooth and consequently possess a super- ficies of limited extent. Optic nerve in that form of monstrosity known by the varied appellations of " Cyclops" " Fostus a trompe," " Monops" " Rinence- phale," Sfc. 4'C. The abnormal anatomy of the optic nerve is not in strictness comprised within the scope of the present article, but nevertheless a brief description of the above malformation will pro- bably not be considered out of place. A single eye placed in the middle line of the forehead, and in general a trunk or proboscis growing immediately above this solitary organ of vision, constitute the most striking apparent anomalies in monsters of this class. The writer is indebted to Dr. Johnson, Master of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, for permis- sion to dissect a specimen of this species of monstrosity in the human subject, and he has obtained through the kindness of Dr. William Wilson Campbell, (formerly assistant in the same establishment,) the particulars of another similar case exa- mined by that gentleman in the year 1834. The annexed wood-cut (fig. 427) gives a faithful representation of the optic nerve in the prepara- tions dissected by the writer and Dr. Campbell; and it agrees exactly with the ap- pearances found by Geoffioy Saint-Hilaire, in the cases which fell under his obser- vation. The tractus optici present a very natural ap- pearance, being two in num- ber, and perfectly normal in their cerebral attachments, course, and relations, &c. The chiasma is contracted in front, and from it, only a single optic nerve pro- ceeds; this passes directly forwards to the back of the Optic nerre in a hit- manCyclops. ( From a disseetion by the writer.) a, a, tractus opti- cus of either side; b, chiasma ; c, sin- gle optic nerve ; d, eye-ball, where it penetrates sclerotic coat of the the sclerotic and terminates eye perforated by the in the retina. °Ptic nerve. Fig. 428 represents the encephalon, optic nerve, and organ of vision in a kitten at the full period of gestation, (the subject of the same form of monstrosity,) which lately came into the writer's possession : the preparation is pre- served in the Museum of the Richmond Hos- pital School} Dublin. In all essential particu- lars this specimen bears the closest resemblance to the human monsters of which the dissection has just been described. The fundamental defect in these monstrous Fig. 428. Brain and organ of vision of a Cyclops kitten, at the full period of gestation. Seen from below. ( Natural size. J a, organ of vision, single, and of great dimensions ; b, b, cerebral hemispheres seen from below ; d, d, tubercula quadri- gemina ; c, optic nerve, single, and of great size. foetuses consists in the total absence of the organ of smell, in consequence of which de- ficiency the symmetrical organs at either side become united in the middle line and actually engrafted upon each other: the two eyes are conjoined so as to form but a single organ of vision, and the very same metamorphosis occurs in the two orbits, the two optic foramina, the two optic nerves, &e. That this is the rationale can scarcely admit of doubt, since in some parts of the organs the fusion remains incomplete; thus two crys- talline lenses still exist in the interior of the solitary eye-ball: a double set of muscles with their corresponding nerves are provided for the globe of the eye; and four eye-lids protect the organ in front, causing the aperture of the lids to assume a quadrangular form. General developement of the optic nerves in the higher classes of animals. Fish.—In fish as a general rule these nerves are highly developed, and exhibit a marked preponderance in size when contrasted with the corresponding nerves in many animals holding a more exalted position upon the scale. This may be explained by the nature of the medium which the fish inhabits; for some of the light incident on the surface of the water is reflected, and another part, after penetrating the water, becomes absorbed, in consequence of the continual disturbance to which the transparency of this fluid is subject; so that fishes necessa- rily require a greater developement of visual apparatus than would suffice land animals for an equal amount of vision. Birds.—In birds the sense of sight exists in great perfection, and the optic nerves exhibit corresponding developement. Mammalia.—In Mammalia the faculty of vision ceases to preponderate, and accordingly the proportions of the optic nerves in this class are no longer excessive. Many facts in comparative anatomy war- rant the conclusion that the senses of smell and vision are at times supplemental to each other; for example, the mole either possesses no optic nerve, or if any such exist it is so diminutive as to be most difficult of recogni- tion, but the olfactory lobes of the brain and the whole olfactory apparatus of the animal exist in great perfection, and its subterranean habits enable it to turn this latter function to account, whilst a highly finished organ of vision would have been an useless appendage. In certain fish which frequent the mud or slimy waters (as for instance the eels), the visual apparatus is poorly developed, and the optic