Comparative Anatomy.) 601 NERVOUS SYSTEM. longer, when they are observed lying out- wardly between the deposited substance and the cell-membrane, as in the muscles (c). The remaining cavity appears to be rilled by a pretty consistent substance, the band of Remak, and discovered by him. In the adult a nerve, consequently, consists, 1st, of an outer pale thin cell-membrane—the membrane of the ori- ginal constituent cells, which becomes visible, when the white substance is destroyed by de- grees (d); 2d, of a white fatty substance de- posited on the inner aspect of the cell-mem- brane, and of greater or less thickness; 3d, of a substance, which is frequently firm or con- sistent, included within the cells, the baud of Remak." From the 'description given in the foregoing pages, we have seen that the prevailing anato- mical element of nerves is a tube composed of homogeneous membrane containing a soft pulpy matter, the true nervous substance, divisible into the white substance of Schwann and the band of Remak, and that through the medium of these nerve-tubes or fibres the grey matter of the central masses is brought into connection with the peripheral textures and organs. Whether the fibres which Henle has desig- nated gelatinous fibres, which resemble very much the central band of the nerve-tubes de- prived of tubular membrane and white sub- stance, perform a similar office, or whether they serve to establish a connection between the grey matter of the several nervous centres, are ques- tions which we must leave for future considera- tion. The sagacity of Galen long ago pointed out that every part, which is capable of motion, and at the same time possesses sensibility, must receive two classes of nerves, motor and sensitive. And it was reserved for the genius of Bell in our own times to demonstrate that the office of a nerve depends upon the powers or endowments of its component fibres or tubules, and that a nervous trunk may be made up of fibres of different endowments lying in juxta-position with each other. It is at the roots of the nerves that tubules of distinct endowments are isolated from each other. Thus Bell's experiments, which have been confirmed by subsequent observations, shewed that the anterior roots of spinal nerves were motor, and the posterior sensitive; and the determination of this important fact is the foundation of all our knowledge of the phy- siology of nerves. The difference in the powers or endowments of the nerve-tubes does not appear to depend upon any variety in their structure, or other physical characters, (size perhaps excepted,) for repeated examination has failed to detect any such, but rather upon their peripheral and cen- tral connexions. A sensitive nerve, while it is organized at its periphery in such a manner as to adapt it fo the reception of impressions, must be connected with that part of the brain whose office it is to perceive the changes which such impressions can produce. And a motor nerve must be on the one hand connected with mus- cular fibres, and on the other associated with such a part of the brain or other nervous centre as is capable of exciting in it that change which when communicated to a muscle will stimulate it to contract. The precise mechanism of those nervous acts, which I would distinguish as purely physical, by reason of their independence of the mind, is as yet unknown. It is still undetermined whether a distinct series of fibres (excitomotory) is necessary for them, or whether they may not be performed by the same fibres which are the channels of the mandates of the will, and of the impressions of those stimuli which are capable of producing sensation. (R. B. Todd.) NERVOUS SYSTEM, Com parative Ana- tomy of.*—In the following article it is in- tended to describe the anatomy of the nervous system in the different classes of animals as they rise upwards in the scale. Acrita.—The class acrita consists of ani- mals whose very characteristic is, that in them the nervous system is molecular, consisting of globules diffused through the cellular tissue of their bodies. Amongst them we distinguish, first, the Polygastrica, which are minute microscopic animals, furnished with numerous digestive cavities, in whom no ner- vous filaments have as yet been traced; still they, many of them, possess eye-specks, they show some indications of the sense of taste, and perform their various motions in the diffe- rent fluids as if under the well-directed gui- dance of nervous power. These animals appear as a punctiform homogeneous mass, in which a nervous system does not as yet exist in a distinct form: the nervous matter may be, perhaps, every where diffused through the cel- lular tissue of their body. These latter re- marks will equally apply to the next class— the Porifera; of which the spongia officinalis may be cited as an example. Its texture is soft and gelatinous, and is probably made up of nervous and muscular globules. Polypifera.— No nervous filaments have been discovered, or described, in any of the various forms and sizes of polypiferous ani- mals, excepting in the genus actinia, respecting which a doubt, almost amounting to a denial of the statement, exists. The actinia may be considered as an isolated polypus; it has no calcareous skeleton, and fixes itself to the rocks by its fleshy base. Spix, a German anatomist of high repute, gave plates of its nervous sys- tem thirty years ago, and described it as con- sisting of filaments with minute ganglia, sur- rounding the fleshy base just mentioned, from which were given off nerves to the different parts. [Professor Rymer Jones believes he has detected a delicate nervous thread, passing round the roots of the tentacles, embedded in a strong circular band of muscle, which sur- rounds the orifice of the stomach.] Mr. Bell, in dissecting several of these actinia, has not been able to detect any nervous filaments; * The Editor is responsible for the passages in- cluded between brackets.