836 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Coup. Akat.) the posterior margin of the os hyoides even in the adult Frog, although they remain for a very long while in a cartilaginous condition. The two pieces a, a, then speedily become dimi- nished in breadth, and the whole shape of the os hyoides approximates that of the adult Frog, the condition of the pieces marked a, a, forming the chief difference between them. This at length becomes gradually more slender and elongated, assuming at last the shape delineated in Jig. 26, vol. i. (a), where the permanent and complete condition of the os hyoides of this Reptile is fully established. The different pieces composing the os hyoides of a Bird having been already described and figured (vide Article Aves, Jig. 151), it only remains for us in this place to complete our review of the hyoid apparatus by examining its condition in the Mammiferous races, in which it is found gradually to become stripped of many parts that before entered so conspicuously into the construction of this portion of the osseous frame-work of the throat, and assume a simplicity of structure that progressively assi- milates to the shape it presents in the human subject, in which alone indeed the name of hi/oides is at all applicable. In Man, observes Geofhoy, the os hyoides is generally said to consist of a body and four symmetric pairs of branches or cornua. The anterior cornua (su- perior when man stands in the erect posture) are reduced to mere rudiments, but in those Mammalia that have the head elongated these anterior cornua are very largely developed, appended from the sides of a special pair of bones, the styloids, which, although in mankind they are reduced to simple and almost useless apophyses, consolidated with the temporal bones in the generality of Mammifers, are very large and important pieces, so connected with the anterior cornua that they are frequently regarded as being additional parts of the os hyoides. But although in the human body these apophyses are comparatively small, and are respectively removed, as it were, to their proper places, the styloids to the cranial bones, and the anterior cornua to the os hyoides, they perform the same office of connecting the hyoid apparatus to the cranium in Man by the inter- position of a cartilage, and in quadrupeds still more effectually by an uninterrupted chain of boi.es connected with each other. The posterior cornua, each consisting of a single piece, resemble each other in office at least, in all the Mammalia, forming with the body of the os hyoides a horse-shoe figure, to which the larynx is appended. The body itself, or central portion of the bone, although in the human subject only represented by a slight tuberosity, will be found in the Rodentia, Ruminants, and more especially Solipeds, to become very conspicuous, and in the last case obviously distinct elements of the skeleton. In these Mammalia indeed, the os hyoides is found to consist of no fewer than nine pieces, without enumerating the styloid bones; a con- dition of complexity almost approaching that met with in the Birds and inferior Vertebrata. Leaving the consideration of the bones of the face, and those which enter into the compo- sition of the hyo-branchial apparatus, which may be all regarded as forming a succession of arches depending from the sides of the cranial vertebra;, of the transverse processes, of which they are indeed regarded by some writers to be real costal prolongations; the anatomist finds a more or less extensive series of bones derived from the sides of the spinal vertebra;, and fre- quently arching downwards to enclose and pro- tect the viscera either of the thorax or of the abdomen, or of both. These lateral appen- dages to the spinal column are invariably in connection with the transverse processes, of which in their simple forms they might seem to be derivations, but when largely developed, as for example in the thorax of Mammiferous animals, they attain to a prodigious size, form- ing, almost by themselves, the frame-work of the thorax, and constituting the principal agents employed in the performance of the mechanical actions connected with the inspiration and ex- piration of the air used for the purpose of respiration. The position of the ribs thus employed for the formation of a thorax is ex- tremely variable in different races. In Man and all other Mammalia, in obedience to a law at present unexplained, they commence inva- riably at the eighth spinal vertebra, counting from the skull; but in Birds the whole thorax is removed much further backwards in order to allow of the greater elongation of the neck. Besides the dorsal ribs thus derived from the spine, and which exist alone in the human subject and in Mammalia generally, another series of additional elements is met with in Reptiles and in Birds, which must be called sternal ribs, and these, conjoined witli the last, enter into the composition of the thoracic cavity. In Fishes only dorsal ribs are met with, and these are connected bya simple articulating facet to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae placed imme- diately above the abdominal cavity. Frequently, however, the ribs of Fishes have supplementary bones appended to them, which in the living fish are embedded amongst the lateral muscles of the body. Sometimes, indeed, these addi- tional rib-like processes arise immediately from the bodies of the vertebra themselves, giving an appearance of complexity to this portion of the skeleton that is calculated to puzzle the young osteologist. In the Cyprinidae and the Herring tribe a small osseous piece is interposed between the vertebra and the rib that is ap- pended to it; this is obviously a detached trans- verse process. In the Batrachia dorsal ribs only are found, and these, even when most largely developed, are mere rudiments appended to the ends of the transverse processes of the vertebra. In Serpents likewise the enormously pro- longed thorax is entirely made up of dorsal elements, but these, existing as they do almost along the whole length of the body, and being moved by an elaborate muscular apparatus, perform to a certain extent the office of loco- motive organs. In the Chelonian and Saurian Reptiles the construction of the thorax becomes much more