LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 226 Fig. 54. Superficial lymphatics of tlie lower extremity. (After Muscagni.) a, Saphena major vein. b, Inguinal glands. c, Commencing branches. d> e, f, <?. The continuations of the vessels simi- larly marked in the former wood-cut. At least two lymphatics, which are united frequently by short branches crossing from one to the other, accompany eacli of these arteries, and all are ultimately conducted by the blood- vessels to the popliteal glands, in which they terminate. The vasa efferentia of these glands, from two to six in number, entwine around the popliteal and femoral vessels, having frequent communications with each other by short cross branches, until they reach the inguinal region, where they terminate for the most part in the deep-seated cluster of inguinal glands; one or more, however, may reach the superficial glands or even those accompanying the external iliac artery above Poupart's ligament. The deep- seated lymphatics in their course are joined by branches which have accompanied the principal ramifications of the bloodvessels; they also at various points form communications with the superficial lymphatic vessels. The superficial lymphatics of the lower extre- mities may be divided into two groups; one con- sisting of numerous vessels which follow more or less the course of the saphena major vein and terminate in the inguinal glands; the other com- posed of but few vessels, which, accompanying the saphena minor vein,join the popliteal glands. The latter take origin from the dorsal surface of the little toe and from the outer edge of the dorsum and sole of the foot; they proceed with the branches of the saphena minor vein in the direction of the external malleolus, from thence to the outer edge of the tendo Achillis, where they glide with the vein under the fascia of the leg to reach the centre of the gastrocnemius muscle, between the heads of which they dip to join the popliteal glands. The superficial lymphatics which accompany the saphena ma- jor vein commence on the dorsal surface of the toes, where they communicate with the digital lymphatics. On the dorsum of the foot they ascend in from three to six branches ; the most internal mount over the internal malleolus with the branches of the saphena major vein to the inside of the knee; the most external pass over the external malleolus and outer side of the leg, at a higher or lower level however, they are directed inwards and pass over the spine and inner surface of the tibia to join the former, at the inner side of the knee; those from the centre part of the dorsum of the foot ascend in front of the tibia ; these also soon tend inwards to be associated with the rest. Another set take origin from the sole of the foot and proceed upwards on the back of the leg superficial to the fascia, having communi- cated freely with the lymphatics accompanying the saphena minor vein. These also sooner or later turn inwards to gain the inside of the knee. From these sources some twelve or fif- teen blanches maybe enumerated, which con- tinue to ascend on the inside of the thigh with the saphena major vein. Some few pass under the fascia lata to join the deep-seated vessels. Prom the back of the leg and thigh they receive an accession to their numbers of several vessels; the most of these reach them from the inside, but some few from the outside of the limb. They ultimately terminate in the superficial cluster of glands in the groin. Some few, however, may dip down to join the deep-seated glands and to unite with the deep-seated lymphatics. One may occasionally be seen to pass the in- guinal glands to reach those accompanying the external iliac artery. The inguinal glands also receive the super- &