731 NOSE. the mucous membrane lining all the supple- mental cavities, the nasal duct and lacrymal sacj and the upper part of the pharynx. The course (as it is called) of the mucous membrane next merits consideration. Ascend- ing from the floor of the nasal fossa up the outer side of the inferior meatus, it becomes gradually thicker and more spongy. From this meatus it is continued anteriorly into the nasal duct, around whose lower orifice it forms an annular fold or reduplication. The orifice in the bones is elliptical and rather obliquely placed, its anterior edge being somewhat lower than the posterior. The fold of mucous mem- brane around it is especially deep on the inner side and posteriorly, and not only contracts the size of the orifice, but acts as a valve to guard it, and, when pressed upwards and for- wards, to close it. Hence, though some per- sons can inflate their lachrymal sacs, in most men, when the nostrils are closed, and air is pressed forcibly into the nose from behind, none ever escapes from its cavities. As the lining membrane descends again upon the outer surface of the inferior turbinated bone, it becomes thicker, more spongy, and more vas- cular. At the lower edge of the bone it forms a deep fold, which, in its congested state, touches the floor of the cavity. The fold is peculiarly thick at the two ends of the bone, and in disease in scrofulous children it sometimes forms a loose and very vascular spongy mass, which has been mistaken, it is said, for a poly- pus. Immediately behind the deep posterior fold the membrane becomes again thin and ad- heres closely to the pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, behind which, and on a level with the extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, it is continued into the orifice of the Eustachian tube. As it passes from the inferior turbinated bone to the outer wall of the middle meatus, the Schneiderian membrane becomes again thinner and more compact. About the middle of this meatus it enters the deep channel of the infun- dibulum, whose form it scarcely alters, and along which it passes to the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them to the frontal sinuses. Above the commencement of the infundibulum it enters into the antrum by a narrow orifice directed obliquely from before backwards. Of the great opening into the antrum when the superior maxillary bone is separated, a large portion is covered by the palatine and turbi- nated bones; and of what remains, all but a narrow circular orifice at the upper and anterior part is closed by a thick annular fold of the mucous membrane; and even permanent closure is no rare consequence of the swelling to which the membrane is subject. Cloquet* says that this fold contains in man a gland with numer- ous orifices analogous to one of large size which surrounds the orifice of the antrum in many animals. I have not been able to find such a structure, and even E. H. Weberf has not been more successful. * Osphresiologie, p. 247. t Hildcbrandt's Anatomic, Bd. iv. The membrane covering the middle turbi- nated bone and the anterior portion of the cel- lular part of the ethmoid is thick and spongy, but less so than that on the inferior turbinated bone. In the superior meatus it is thin; and it becomes still thinner as it passes into the one or more orifices of the posterior ethmoidal cells, on the borders of which it is tightly ap- plied, and whose size, as it forms no loose pro- jecting fold, it diminishes but little. It closes, at this part, the spheno-palatine foramen, and in the vault of the nasal fossae all the foramina of the cribriform plate, through which nerves and vessels are admitted to the outer surface of the mucous membrane, and the inner surface of the periosteum. At the lower borders of the superior and middle turbinated bones it forms thick folds, which make the meatus appear far smaller than they do in the dry bones. These folds are not so deep as that on the inferior tur- binated bone; but, as they probably receive many filaments of the olfactory nerve, both they, and perhaps the inferior fold also, may be regarded as means for the multiplication of the sensitive surface, and as analogous, in some measure, to the folds of mucous membrane by which alone in Fish and the Proteus anguinus the same object is attained In all the rest of its extent over the septum, the nasal bones, and the lateral cartilages, the Schneiderian membrane has a uniform surface and is of about middle thickness : its layers are intimately united, and it adheres with mode- rate firmness to the bone and cartilage. Nerves of the nose.— The olfactory nerve, or, as it may be more properly called, the olfactory lobe of the brain, arises from the posterior, inner, and inferior part of the an- terior lobe of the cerebrum. It lies in the groove between the two most internal of the convolutions of this part of the brain, and may be divided into three parts;—the posterior, or pyramid, the anterior, or bulb, and the middle, or proper trunk of the nerve or lobe. At its origin it may be traced backwards into three roots. Of these, the outer or long root appears first in the fissura Sylvii at the junction of the anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, just above the trunk of the middle cerebral artery. Hence, its chief portion proceeds in- wards, forwards, and a little downwards on the under surface of the anterior lobe and in front of the substantia perforata antica; and on coming near the other roots it turns more directly forwards and unites with them at the beginning of the groove between the two convo- lutions. In this course it receives on its outer border one or more separate fasciculi, which come from the deeper part of the lobe and are sometimes completely concealed by grey mat- ter covering them. The inner or short root is first visible at the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, in front of the beginning of the fissura Sylvii, and just outside the great me- dian division of the cerebrum. It consists of one or more fasciculi, and passes outwards and forwards to the commencement of the groove, where, curving round like the preceding, but