NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 112 goes a sudden development, whilst in the female it remains stationary. The comparative length of the chink in the male and female is proportional to the relative lengths of the vocal ligaments already detailed. The length of the rima glot- tidis bears no relation to the stature of the indi- vidual. In the adult male it is about eleven lines, of which the boundaries formed by the arytenoid cartilages are four, and the thyro-ary- tenoid ligaments seven lines. In the male and female it is on a mean average as three in the former to two in the latter. In a female, M. Lauth however found the rima glottidis to mea- sure from ten lo eleven lines, whilst that of a tall male extended only from eight to nine lines; but this is a rare instance. The pomum Adami on the thyroid has a corresponding concavity within, which affords a greater length in the mesial section of the larynx, and which tends to increase the longi- tudinal dimensions of the glottis. In several of the ruminantia the concavity is very con- spicuous.* The breadth of the glottis is much less than its length. In a state of repose its transverse section is not more in the adult than about two or three lines, or with respect to its length as two to eleven, but the diameter varies with the intensity of the forces of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. The ventricles. Venlricule ou sinus du larynx. Cruv.— These are oval or elliptical cavities directed from before backwards, between the superior and inferior ligaments. The depths of the ventricles are effected by the distance from the free margin of the vocal ligaments to the internal surface of the thyroid, or rather to the thyro-arytenoid muscles, which constitute the bottom of the ventricles. The internal part of the posterior cavity of the ventricles is enlarged and deepened by a duplicature of the mucous membrane passing external to the arytenoid cartilage, which has been described by Mor- gagni, and recently more particularly by Mr. Hiltonf under the name sacculus luryngis. The ventricles are prolonged anteriorly, extend- ing along the vocal cords on each side of the epiglottis. In size the ventricles vary with the general dimensions of the larynx ; they are each divided into an interior and posterior cavity by a transverse ridge. The ventricles afford greater freedom of motion to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Nerves.—The larynx is exquisitely sensible, and, as we have seen, combines complex and delicate motions with secreting surfaces. These properties result from its nervous endowment, which is derived from two branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve, namely, the superior and the inferior laryngeal nerves. It will be unnecessary to enter into any de- tailed description of these nerves here. Their distribution will be fouhd fully described in the article Par vagum, to which we refer. Let it suffice to mention, that the superior la- ryngeal nerve by its external branch gives fila- ments, 1, to the inferior constrictor of the pha- * Vide Pallas Spicil. Zool. Trans, xii. t Guy's Hosp. Reports, No. v. Fig. 31. A view, from Mr. Swan, of the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves. a, a portion of the tongue ; b, the epiglottis ; c, the thyroid cartilage'; d, the posterior arytenoid muscle divided for show- ing a branch of the recurrent nerve passing to the oblique and transverse muscles ; e, the lateral crico arytenoid muscle; f, the thyro-arytenoid muscle ; g, the arytenoideus obliquus ; h, the ary- tenoideus transversus; i, the crico-thyroid ; j, l.the superior laryngeal nerve; 2, a branch of this nerve to the membrane connected with that covering the epiglottis ; 3, a branch of the superior laryngeal to the membrane placed between the superior extremities of the arytenoid cartilage ; 4, the recurrent nerve ; 5, a branch of the recur- rent given off to the membrane lying between the larynx and pharynx ; 6, a branch of the recurrent nerve to communicate with a branch of the supe- rior laryngeal nerve ; 7, a branch of the recurrent to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle ; 8, a branch to the crico-thyroid and crico-arytenoid muscles ; 9, a branch giving filaments to the posterior crico- arytenoid, and passing between this muscle and the arytenoid cartilage, to terminate in the oblique and transverse arytenoid muscles. rynx; 2, to the thyro-hyoid muscle and mem- brane ; 3, to the laryngeal plexus; 4, to the crico-thyroid muscle ; 5, to the thyroid gland. The internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve supplies filaments, 1, to the epiglottis; 2, to the adipose and mucous membrane; 3, to the arytenoid muscles; 4, to the thyro- arytenoideus; 5, to the crico-arytenoideus late- ralis; 6, a descending anastomotic branch to the