802 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. crystalline precipitate if any magnesia were still contained in the liquid. k. A portion of the original liquid (b) is acidulated with a drop or two of hydrochloric acid; if sulphuric or phosphoric acid have been detected (by c and e), chloride of barium in slight excess is added, the solution filtered, heated, and precipitated by a mixture of caustic and car- bonate of ammonia; it is again filtered, the liquid evaporated to dryness and ignited, the residue dissolved in alcohol, and sufficient alco- holic solution of bichloride of platinum added to produce a yellow liquid : a yellow precipitate indicates potash. If no sulphuric or phosphoric acid be present, the use of the chloride of ba- rium and ammonia will become unnecessary. /. Decant the yellow solution just obtained (k) from the precipitate, if there be any, and allow it to evaporate spontaneously or at a very gentle heat. If soda be present, long prismatic yellow needles of the double chloride of pla- tinum and sodium form. This is the best test of the presence of soda. The yellow tint which its salts communicate to the exterior flame of the blowpipe, when heated on a platinum wire, has been proposed, but this is by no means an unequivocal appearance. Almost all the animal fluids contain soda in the form of common salt. B m. The insoluble fixed residue (B) may contain phosphates and carbonates of lime and magnesia, as well as phosphate and oxide of iron, and traces of silica. The residue is treated with nitric acid, by which every thing but the silica is dissolved. Carbonic acid, if present, is manifested by effervescence. n. The solution is diluted and filtered ; to one portion ammonia free from carbonic acid is added ; if phosphoric acid be present, a preci- pitate occurs whilst the liquid still remains acid ; under these circumstances ammonia is added as long as the precipitate at first formed re-dissolves in the solution, still acid. If a solu- tion of acetate oj lead, carefully dropped in, cause a white precipitate, soluble in nitric acid, and^which if collected and dried fuses before the blowpipe into a semi-transparent bead, which assumes a crystalline structure on cool- ing, phosphoric acid is indicated by the phos- phate of lead thus obtained. o. Another portion of the acid liquid is neu- tralized by ammonia, and the precipitate, if any occur, re-dissolved by acetic acid. Oxalate of ammonia shews lime by the formation of a white precipitate. p. To the liquid filtered from the oxalate of lime carbonate oj ammonia is added in slight excess; if the previous examination have shewn phosphoric acid to exist, a crystalline precipitate indicates the double phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. If no precipitate be thus obtained, boil the liquid, and the magnesia in solution falls as carbonate. q. Oxide o*' iron is detected instantly by adding a drop of solution of ferrocyanide of po- tassium to the acid solution: an immediate Prus- sian blue precipitate shews iron, if present. The precipitates obtained in the previous experi ments for lime and magnesia will, instead of being white have a more or less decided rusty brown tint, especially when dry, if iron form any considerable part of the matter examined. For the detection of iodine, lead, and the other bodies enumerated in the list of inorganic substances for which we may occasionally have to look, the reader is referred to the following directions for the quantitative estimation of the different compounds. Quantitative estimation. For the convenience of analysis our saline matter may be divided into two portions, one of which is employed for determining the acids, the other for the bases. The first portion will enable us to ascertain the quantity of carbonic and phosphoric acids, of chlorine, and of sul- phuric acid. From the second portion we obtain the potash, soda, lime, magnesia, iron, and alumina, if, as rarely occurs, the latter be present. Other ingredients will usually be matter of special examination ; the details of the methods to be pursued are subjoined. We begin by treating the salts to be exa- mined with water (solution A). Nothing but carbonates and phosphates of the earths will thus remain undissolved (residue B). (A.) Carbonic arid.—The aqueous solution is treated with lime-water, or with a mixture of ammonia and nitrate of lime, as long as any precipitate is produced. If no phosphates be present, this consists of carbonate of lime, the solution is boiled—filtered, the precipitate ignited, and after adding a few drops of strong solution of carbonate of ammonia heated below redness and weighed, 100 grs. of carbonate of lime indicate 44 of carbonic acid When phos- phates are present, we proceed as follows :— Phosphoric acid.—The precipitate obtained by lime-water, as thus directed, contains all the phosphoric acid that may be present. If there- fore phosphates existed in our solution, the pre- cipitate, after its weight has been carefully ascertained, must be dissolved in nitric acid, and caustic ammonia (free from carbonic acid) added in slight excess. The phosphoric acid separates as a gelatinous precipitate of phos- phate of lime. It must be ignited and the weight deducted from that of the mixed pre- cipitate previously obtained ; the difference in- dicates the quantity of carbonate of lime. The precipitated phosphate of lime contains 49" 1 per 100 of phosphoric acid. Phosphate of lime dissolves in nitric, hydrochloric, or acetic acid without effervescence, and is thrown down by ammonia in a gelatinous form. The phos- phates and carbonates being thus separated, the filtered solution is treated for, Hydrochloric acid.— The quantity of this acid or of the chlorine it coutains may easily be determined by precipitating the solution pretty strongly acidulated with nitric acid by means of nitrate of silver. The chloride of silver thus obtained is completely soluble in ammonia, but resists the action of strong nitric acid even when boiling. The precipitate must be ignited; it should undergo fusion into a horny mass at a heat a little below redness. It is now weighed; 100 parts indicate 25 of chlorine.