MOTION. 463 Fig. 251. Fig. 251 shows the consecutive positions of the leg /luring two successsive steps. To render them more distinct they are divided into two groups. The 18 figures o f the Jirst group show all the positions through which the leg passes while the toe rests upon the ground. The 10 of the second show the successive positions during the time the body is carried forward by the swinging leg. The positions from 1 to 4 show that division of time of the Jirst step, when both legs are on the ground ■ the figures 5 to 14 give the portion of time of the first step wfien one leg rests on the ground while the other swings; from 15 to 18, that division of the second step where both legs rest on the ground ; No. 19 to 28 show the portion of time when one leg swings while the other rests on the ground. step must have been £152 = 2.64 feet. 2UOO In thii case also the length of the leg was 34 inches, which gives 19.961 inches for the length of the synchronous pendulum, and for the time of each half oscillation 0".357 ; hence the time of taking each step was longer than the time in which the leg was susceptible of swinging without muscular effort, as a pendulum, by about 0".093. The step is considered as commencing at the instant when the hindmost leg is raised from the ground. Let us then suppose the whole sole of the foot of the right leg, which is in advance of the left, to be in contact with the ground, upon which it acts as a fulcrum; the hip, knee, and ankle-joints to be in a state of partial flexion, and the line from the head of the femur to the ankle-joint to be vertical, as in fig. 251, No. 4. In this position, the right leg- supports the whole weight of the trunk, and the left, being extended obliquely backwards, does not contribute to the support of the burthen. The flexed position of the right leg lowers the centre of gravity, and the effective portion of the force of extension, acting only in a vertical direction, produces no horizontal motion. At this moment, the left leg having previously communicated a slight horizontal impulse to the centre of gravity, and the trunk being inclined forwards, the head of the femur of the right leg is propelled from No. 4 towards No. 18. The leg, instead of being vertical, is now di- rected obliquely forwards and upwards. In order that the head of the femur with its load may be sustained at the same height above the