895 PAR VAGUM. lias published various experiments upon these nerves very similar to those which we had per- formed, and obtained nearly the same results. Longet states that the respirations become in- creased in frequency after dividing the recur- rents. Other experimenters have lately satisfied themselves of the accuracy of these experiments. Effects of the laryngeal nerves on phonation. —The effect of the lesion of the recurrent nerves in enfeebling the voice was well known to Galen and the older physiologists.* We found in making this experiment that the voice, as Monro Secundusf and others have stated, is not altogether lost, for in some cases, at least, the animal could still emit a faint howl. Longet % has observed that the voice is com- pletely lost in old animals, while young animals are still able to produce acute sounds different from the natural voice if the crico-thyroid muscle moved through the external branch of the superior laryngeal be not paralysed, and he attributes this difference to the relative size of the larynx at these ages. We can have no doubts in attributing the effects of lesion of the inferior laryngeals upon the voice to the para- lysis of the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages. § Magendie mentions that an animal after section of the superior laryngeal nerves " loses almost all its acute sounds it acquires, besides a constant gravity which it had not previously."|| This he attributed to the arrestment of the movements of the arytenoid muscles, but we have shown that the section of these nerves has no such effect. Bischoff could perceive no change upon the voice after he had divided these nerves in two dogs.lf Longet states that the division of those nerves above the origin of the external branch, or of the external branch alone, is followed by a disagreeable hoarseness of the voice.** If the variations in the length of a tube alter the graveness and acuteness of the soundswhich it emits, we would expect that the lesion of the superior laryngeals should, by arresting the movements of the crico-thyroid muscle, produce some change in this respect. Longet believes that the crico-thyroid muscles are, during their contraction, tensors of the vocal chords, and that the changes upon the voice induced by dividing the superior laryn- geals depend upon the effect which paralysis of these muscles has upon the tension of the vocal chords.ff (Esophageal branches.—Muscular contrac- tions have been observed in the oesophagus on * Vide Haller's Elementa Physiologic, torn. iii. p. 408, Eausan. 1766. t Observations on the Nervous System, p. 65. | Opus supra cit., p. 14 and 15. $ I have seen some cases of partial aphonia in the human species arising from the compression of one recurrent in the upper part of the chest by an aneurism of the aorta. || Compendium of Physiology, p. 138, 1831. % Opus cit. p. 27. ** Dupuytren had previously maintained that lesion of the superior laryngeals was followed by a disagreeable hoarseness, Biblioth. Medic, torn.' xviii., 1807, as quoted by Longet. tt Opus cit. p. 8 and 27. irritating the trunk of the vagus, by Arnemann,"* Cruikshank,f Mayo,J and others. When the trunk of the vagus is irritated above the origin of the recurrent, the muscular fibres of the oesophagus along its whole length are thrown into active contraction. In experiments upon rabbits we found that the oesophagus became impacted with food eaten after section of the vagi in the neck, when very little of it had reached the stomach and when no efforts at vomiting had occurred, while its muscular fibres could still readily be thrown into active contraction by direct excitation. From this we inferred that before the presence of the ingesta in this tube can excite its muscular fibres to contract and propel its contents onwards, the same conditions of the nervous system are ne- cessary as for the production of the excito- motory movements, and that certain of the fila- ments of the vagi act as incident and others as motor nerves. That the food also collects in the oesophagus in the horse and sheep after division of the vagi may be inferred from the experiments of Dupuy§ and others. In subse- quent experiments upon dogs we found that substances seem to pass pretty freely along the oesophagus in that animal after section of the vagi, it would appear, however, that even in the dog the food is occasionally retained in the oesophagus after dividing the vagi.|| Arnold (opus cit. p. 144) observed in his experiments upon hens and pigeons that the oesophagus and crop were so relaxed after section of the vagi that when the animals shook their head and neck, or kept the head in a depending position^ a quantity of chyme Howed from the bill. From a review of all these facts we are in- clined to agree in the opinion lately expressed by Dr. M. Hall, that in some animals the muscular contractions of the oesophagus are excito-motory, while in others they are called into action by direct excitation. We cannot at present determine whether the propulsion of the food along the oesophagus in the human species partakes more of the former or of the latter class of movements. Magendie has as- certained that various muscular movements go on in the lower part of the oesophagus, more especially when the stomach is full, by which this tube is contracted during inspiration and relaxed during expiration, and that they are suspended by dividing the vagi. These we may class among the reflex muscular move- ments. The oesophagus is endowed with little sensibility, and in the natural and healthy con- dition of the organ the ingesta are propelled along it to the stomach without exciting any sensation. From a consideration of all the * As quoted by Soemmering Corporis Hum. Fa- brica.tom. iv., p. 272, 1794. t Medical Facts and Observations, vol. vii., p. 153, or Phil. Transact., 1795. X Anatomical and Physiological Commentaries, No. ii., p. 15. § Journal de Medecine, Chirurgie, &c. Dec. 1846, torn. 37, p. 351. || Haglivi Opera Omnia, p. 676, Anvers, 1715, et Valsalvae Opera cum Epistolis Anatomicis, &c. J. B. Morgani Epist, Anatom. xiii. 37, Veneu .1740.