OPTIC NERVES. 771 Some difficulty no doubt arises when the physiologist attempts to reconcile with this anatomical arrangement certain facts already detailed : it may be remarked, however, that arguments derived from the pathology of the optic nerve can be but of little value, since they have been relied on in turn by the framers of each hypothesis as affording proof of their own peculiar views; and in the Museum of the Richmond Surgical Hospital, Dublin, the writer has seen specimens of atrophied optic nerves in man which furnish the most contradictory evi- dence upon the subject under discussion. The preparations alluded to were cases in which one eye had been destroyed either by local disease or accident, many years previous to death, and where in consequence the corresponding optic nerve became wasted from disuse, while the other optic nerve continued healthy. In the majority of these specimens the wasting has been propagated backwards to the opposite tractus opticus and has implicated that structure, while the corresponding tractus has been spared (see fig. 420, A); in some examples both tractus optici have suffered a diminution of size and in general to an unequal amount; and in one Fig. 420. A Atrophy of one optic nerve, the consequence of long- continued disuse. ( From preparations in the Museum of the Richmond Hospital, Dublin.) A. a, right optic nerve in a state of atrophy ; b, left optic nerve healthy ; c, chiasma ; d, right trac- tus opticus healthy ; e, left tractus opticus wasted. B. a, right optic nerve atrophied ; b, left optic nerve healthy; c, chiasma; d, right tractus opticus wasted ; e, left tractus opticus healthy. very remarkable instance the tractus opticus of the same side with the shrunken nerve has dwindled into a narrow band, while the other retains fully its normal dimensions (fig. 420, B). It may be fair to add, that the case quoted from Vesalius is considered by many, and amongst others by Gall and Spurzheim, as of doubtful authenticity, and the results of expe- riments on living animals should be received with caution, for to argue from experiments on birds to the human subject is plainly fallacious, since the structure of the chiasma is not iden- tical in the two cases, and the great obstacles encountered in the performance of such expe- riments on the mammalia renders them of trifling value. Use of the. chiasma.—In the direct junction between two corresponding nerves of opposite sides displayed in the chiasma, the second pair form an exception to a general law ; for in no other known instance does a similar union occur; it therefore becomes a subject of great interest to determine how far this anomaly admits of explanation by any unusual properties in the nerves so circumstanced. The optic nerves possess the remarkable power of conveying to the individual the sen- sation of a single impression only, while a separate impression affects each nerve simul- taneously, so that although a perfect picture of the object be depicted on each retina severally, nevertheless to the spectator it appears to be single (as is really the case); or to speak still more intelligibly, a spectator sees an object single, although he looks at it with two eyes. This property would seem to belong in an especial manner to the optic nerves, and inas- much as the second pair differ from all the others in possessing a chiasma, there is so far a presumption, that the unity of sensation mani- fested by the optic nerves depends on the chiasma. The idea that single vision may be explained by a partial decussation in the chiasma originated (upon theoretical grounds) with Newton; it has since been adopted by Wollaston, Solly, and others, and many facts have been from time to time brought forward in its favour. The hypothesis may be thus enunciated. " Each tractus opticus sends some filaments across the chiasma to form the inner part of the opposite optic nerve, while its outer filaments continue on to form the outer part of the optic nerve of its own side; the same arrangement of the filaments prevails to the retina, so that the right side of each retina comes from the right tractus opticus, and the left side of each retina from the left tractus opticus; if then in vision the pictures of an object be depicted simultaneously either on the right sides of the two retina;, or on the left sides of the two retina;, the impressions in either case will be communicated to one and the same tractus opti- cus; such impressions will of course be referred to one and the same side of the brain, and they will therefore produce the sensation of a single impression only, although in reality two several impressions affect the retinae; the unity of sensation depending on the fact that the two 3 d 2