888 PAR VAGUM. the pharynx, to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and also occasionally one or two slender filaments to the crico-thyroid muscle. It likewise sends a branch upwards over the posterior surface of the larynx, first passing between the oesophagus and back part of the trachea, and then beneath the mucous membrane of the anterior part of the pharynx and crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle, sending some filaments to the oesophagus and mucous membrane of the pharynx, and anastomosing with the posterior descending twig of the inter- nal branch of the superior laryngeal. The trunk of the recurrent now passes upwards in front of the lower edge of the inferior constrictor muscle, gets into the sulcus on the posterior surface of the articulation between the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage and the external surface of the cricoid cartilage, and then passes along the outer edge of the crico-arytenoideus posticus upon the external surface of the crico- arytenoideus lateralis and thyro-arytenoid mus- cles, where it terminates. In its course along the side of the larynx it generally sends a twig up- wards to anastomose with one of the descending twigs of the internal branch of the superior laryngeal. As it is passing the crico-ary- tenoideus posticus it sends some twigs into the external edge of that muscle, all of which enter among its fibres except one. This last twig, which does not enter among the fibres of the muscle, runs beneath its outer edge, and pro- ceeding upwards and inwards between its an- terior surface and the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, it reaches the lower edge of the arytenoideus obliquus and transversus, and is lost among their fibres. As the continuation of the recurrent passes over the surface of the cricoid-arytenoideuslateralis, it sends some fila- ments inwards among the fibres of this muscle, and then proceeds upwards upon the thyro-ary te- noid, into the interior of which it dips. Its ter- minating filaments are distributed in the thyro- arytenoid muscle, and a few only can be traced to the lining membrane of the larynx. We have thus seen, that while nearly all the filaments of the internal branch of the superior laryngeal, distributed to the larynx, ultimately run to its mucous surface, the greater part of the filaments of the recurrent are distributed in the muscles which are attached to and move the arytenoid cartilages. The peculiarity in the course of the inferior laryngeal from which it derives its name of re- current, depends upon the changes in the rela- tive position of the branchial arteries to the larynx in the embryo, after they have assumed the form presented in the adult by the arch of the aorta and the large vessels which spring from it. [n those cases where the right subclavian artery, instead of arising along with the right carotid by a common trunk (arteria innominata), comes off from the arch of the aorta beyond the origin of the left subclavian, or, in other words, is the last in order of the large arteries which supply the head and thoracic extremities, and then proceeds across the spine behind the oesophagus to reach its usual position behind the scalenus anticus muscle on the right side, the recurrent does not arch round the right subclavian, but is given off from the trunk of the vagus as it is passing the larynx.* Course of the vagus through the thorax.— After the right vagus has given off the recurrent, it passes behind the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, and proceeding downwards, inwards, and backwards behind the right bronchus, right pulmonary artery and veins, reaches the oesophagus as it lies in the posterior mediastinum. The left vagus, after passing from the anterior surface of the arch of the aorta, also proceeds downwards, inwards, and backwards behind the left bronchus, left pul- monary artery and veins, and also reaches the oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum at the same part where the right vagus joins it. Both nerves closely accompany the oesophagus down the posterior mediastinum, and pass from the thorax into the upper part of the abdomen through the same opening (oesophageal open- ing) in the diaphragm. At the upper part of the chest, the vagi become flattened from before backwards, and are consequently broader and thinner than in the neck. Immediately after the vagus has given off the recurrent it sends numerous twigs inwards. Some of these pass upwards and inwards to assist in forming the cardiac plexus ; some pro- ceed transversely inwards upon the anterior surface of the lower part of the trachea, and anastomose with other branches from the vagus arising higher up, and also with branches from the recurrent and sympathetic to form the ante- rior and inferior tracheal plexus (plexus trache- alis anterior et inferior); while others pass upon the posterior surface of the lower part of the trachea, anastomose with other branches from the recurrent and sympathetic, and thus form the posterior and inferior tracheal plexus. The vagus at this part also sends a few twigs upon the upper part of the thoracic portion of the oesophagus, forming a free anastomosis on its surface with other twigs from the recurrent and the posterior bronchial plexus (plexus oesopha- gei thoracici superior). It likewise sends some branches inwards and downwards to throw themselves into the lateral portion of the lower part of the cardiac plexus ; while a few others pass still more downwards to reach the anterior '* Two cases of this variety, in the origin and course of the inferior laryngeal nerve and right sub- clavian artery, are recorded by Dr. Stedman (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal for 1823, p. 564) and Dr. Hart (in same Journal, 25th vol. 1826). I have myself had an opportunity of examining two cases of this kind. In those cases of double monstrosity where the head and larynx are double, and the two bodies are fused together immediately below this, so that the lower part of the neck, the thorax, and thoracic extremities are single, and where con- sequently we have four vagi nerves in the upper part of the neck, and only two at the lower part, the right recurrent of the right larynx hooks round the subclavian artery, and the left recurrent of the left larynx hooks round the arch of the aorta, while the other two vagi, or the left recurrent of the right larynx, and the right recurrent of the left, give off their superior laryngeal branches as they pass the larynges. I had an opportunity of dissecting one case of this kind.