PAR VAGUM. 892 We believe that we are justified in concluding from the evidence here adduced, that the vagus, even at its origin, and before it has received any fibres from the accessory, does contain a few motor filaments.* We shall here make a few remarks upon the immediate effects of chemical and mechanical excitation of the trunk of the vagus as it lies in the neck, and then proceed to examine in detail the functions of its auricular, pharyngeal, laryn- geal, oesophageal, cardiac, pulmonary, and gas- tric branches. When the trunk of the vagus has been exposed in the neck in a living animal, and is cut, bruised, or rendered suddenly tense by forcible stretching, the animal generally gives indications of severe suffering, while in some cases the animal remains quiescent, and, as far as we can judge, suffers little, if any. There can be no doubt, from the distinct testimony of numerous experimenters, + that the trunk of the vagus does contain sensiferous filaments, but there are good grounds for be- lieving that the application of chemical agen- cies or the infliction of mechanical injuries upon this nerve below the origin of its superior laryngeal branch, are not attended with the same amount of pain as would attend similar lesions of one of the ordinary spinal nerves. Dr. Marshall Hall and Mr. Broughton re- marked, that when the compression of this nerve is continued " for a few moments, an act of respiration and deglutition follows, with a tendency to straggle and cough." J Romberg observed excitation of the vagus in the neck in a horse produce cough ; § and it appears that Cruveilhier had made previously the same ob- servation. || In some of the cases in which I made this experiment on dogs, I observed powerful respiratory muscular movements, but never succeeded in inducing cough. Longet has been equally unsuccessful in producing cough by this means.^[ The respiratory mus- cular movements which follow excitation of the vagus in the neck are not dependent upon any * The opinion that the internal branch of the spinal accessory furnishes no motor filaments lo the trunk of the vagus has been several times of late attributed to me. That this is a mistake, any one may satisfy himself by reading the account which I have given of these experiments, from which I drew the following conclusions. " That the inter- nal branch of the spinal accessory assists in moving the muscles of the pharynx we are satisfied, not only from the experiments just stated, but also from those upon the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum. Of the probable destination and functions of the other filaments of the internal branch of the accessory, we cannot pretend to judge without more extended inquiries. We certainly do not consider that these experiments entitle us to assert that they are not motor filaments." Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. 173, 1838. t We have elsewhere collected the statements of different authors on this point. (Edin. Med. & Surgical Journal for 1838-9.) $ Transactions of the British Scientific Associa- tion, vol. iv. p. 677. § Muller's Archives for 1838. || Nouv. Biblioth. Med. t. ii. p. 172, 1828, as quoted by Longet. % Anatomie et Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux, &c. t. ii. p. 309. direct action transmitted downwards to the lungs or muscles of respiration, but upon a reflex action, as Dr. Marshall Hall pointed out, arising from certain impressions being carried upwards to the medulla oblongata by the inci- dent fibres of the vagus, followed by the trans- mission of a motor influence outwards from this portion of the central organ of the nervous system along the motiferous nerves distributed in the muscles moved. The excitation and mechanical injury of the vagus in the neck in- duces various other results, some of which may be included among their immediate effects, such as those upon the movements of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, the diminution of the frequency of the respirations, &c; but these will be more methodically introduced among the remarks which we have to make upon the functions of the individual branches of the nerve.* Auricular branch.—From the origin of this branch from the superior ganglion of the vagus, and from being partly distributed to the inte- guments of the pavilion of the external ear, it is probable that it is composed of sensiferous filaments. If the portion of this branch which throws itself into the portio dura be sensiferous, the portio dura may contain some sensiferous filaments as it issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen.f Pharyngeal branches.—As a great part, some- times nearly the whole, of the superior pharyn- geal branch of the vagus comes directly from the internal branch of the spinal accessory, we may, on anatomical grounds alone, conclude that it contains motor filaments. In irritating this branch in dogs, both alive and immediately after death, we observed extensive movements of the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate without any distinct indications of pain. As, however, the animal must necessarily be sub- * In some animals, as in the dog, the division or compression of the vagus in the neck is immedi- ately followed by diminution of the pupil of the eye of that side, the protrusion of the cartilaginous membrane at the inner canthus over the inner part of the anterior surface of the eyeball, the retraction of the eyeball deeper into the socket, and a slight approximation of the eyelids ; and subsequently by inflammation of the conjunctiva. Petit (Histoire de l'Academie Royale des Sciences, annee 1727) was the first who observed these effects, and justly attributed them to injury of the sympathetic nerve. It is only in those animals in which the sympathe- tic joints itself to the vagus in the upper part of the neck, that the division or compression of the trunk of the vagus produces any change on the eye. Vide Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, No. 140, for ex- periments on this subject by the author of this arti- cle, and Valentin's Treatise de Functionibus Nerv. Cereb. &c. p. 109. t Arnold believes that the sympathy occasionally observed between the external ear and the lungs may be owing to this auricular branch of the vagus. He refers to some cases, where the presence of hardened cerumen, of a bean, of a pea, and other foreign bodies in the cartilaginous tube of the ex- ternal ear, has induced long-continued cough and even vomiting. (Bemerkungen iiber den Baue des HirnsundRuckenmarks, &c. S.168. Zurich, 1838.) In some individuals coughing can readily be in- duced by irritating the inner surface of the meatus auditorius externus.