841 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. An at.) fin rays, however numerous, are connected ; with the exception of the first, which articulates immediately with the radius. In some Fishes, as in the Lophius, these bones are extraordi- narily lengthened, while the radius and ulna are diminished in proportionate size; so that some writers have mistaken the bones of the carpus for those of the forearm. In the Batrachia, and in all four-footed Rep- tiles, they are small ossicles interposed between the bones of the forearm and metacarpal bones, resembling very much those of the human sub- ject; butin Birds, in consequence of the peculiar condition of the hand, here converted into a wing, they are reduced to two, so disposed as to form with the bones of the forearm a mere hinge-joint moving laterally, so as to allow the wing to be folded up. In the Cetacea the carpal bones exist, it is true, but so separated from each other by an in- terposed cartilaginous mass that they assist in forming a broad paddle, strengthened by super- ficial ligaments, and only useful for progression in the water. In all other Mammalia the carpal bones are met with, their form and number varying with the uses for which the limb of which they form a part is adapted. The metacarpal bones form the immediate basis on which the individual fingers are sup- ported, and, accordingly, are as variable in their number and arrangement as are the digital portions of the anterior extremity. In Fishes, owing to the numerous fingers or rays as they are here called, the metacarpal bones are met with in far greater numbers than in animals where the extremities assume a more concentrated form,—a fact most remarkably exemplified in the Chondropterygious Fishes, where the number of digital phalanges is enor- mous. But in Reptiles, where the hands are not only reduced to what may be called the normal type of structure, but developed in a medium condition, little remarkable is met with in this part of the hand. It is only as we come to animals appointed to extraordinary conditions of life that aberrations from the usual form become conspicuous, as, for exam- ple, in the feathered races. The metacarpus of Birds, although in some cases it might at first appear composed of a single bone, in others of two bones anchylosed together at both ends, contains, in reality, the elements of three meta- carpal bones consolidated ; two of these, which are much elongated, supporting the finders, while the third, an exceedingly small element confused with the base of the central one, sus- tains the rudimentary thumb. In the metacarpal bones of the unguiculate Quadrupeds there is nothing worthy of notice in this general survey of the osseous system ; hut in the Unguhita a coalescence almost as re- markable as in Birds is observable, whereby the peculiar structure of the feet of such animals is provided for. In the Rummantia and So- lidungula the whole metacarpal apparatus would at first sight appear to consist of a single bone, to which the name of canon-bone is gene- rally appropriated; but this apparently single bone is easily seen to be in reality made up of two, anchylosed together throughout their whole length, so that the line of demarcation between them is only indicated by a deep longitudinal groove, visible on the anterior and posterior aspects of the bone; in most cases, however, there are two more lateral pieces, unattached to the principal or canon-bone except by the soft parts, but evidently real metacarpal elements in an imperfect and rudimentary condition. The digital phalanges being the most remote from the central portion of the skeleton are likewise the most variable in number and ap- pearance, being moulded into shapes as various as are the uses to which the anterior limbs are convertible, becoming in turn the framework of oars, of paddles, of pillars, of rakes, of wings, or of hands, in accordance with the different natures of the animals possessing them. Neither is it at all an easy task to say how many of these elements might exist in the construction of this part of the skeleton, seeing that the number of fingers that may enter into the com- position of a hand seems not at all determinate, nor even the number of phalanges in a given finger. The pectoral fins of osseous Fishes, the representatives of the hands of higherVertebrata, differ exceedingly in this respect, sometimes consisting of a single ray, at others being dilated and extended, as m the Flying Fishes, until both rays and phalanges become extremely numerous. The hand or pectoral fin of the Skates is per- haps one of the most remarkable structures that can be offered to the contemplation of the osteologist, whether we regard its apparently disproportionate size or the immense number of digital elements that enter into its composi- tion ; it forms, in fact, the great bulk of their bodies, and is made up of upwards of a hundred distinct fingers, each composed of numerous phalanges of enormous length. Throughout the Serpent tribes all traces of anterior extremities are lost, but in the Anourous Batrachia fingers again appear under a new and more elevated form, although feeble when compared to the digital phalanges of the hinder extremities in the same Reptiles. Throughout the Saurian and Chelonian races as they now exist, nothing remarkable appears in the construction of this portion of the skele- ton, the chief modifications observable being in the number, length, and position of the fingers, although in extinct forms of nearly allied genera, such as the Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus, the number both of toes and phalanges are so prodigiously increased that we are once more reminded of the tins of Fishes. The digital phalanges in the wing of a bird are reduced to an exceedingly rudimentary condition, the thumb being represented by a single bone. The central or radial finger is the longest and most complete, consisting, when fully developed, of three distinct joints, though sometimes there are only two. The ulnar or third finger is, like the thumb, represented by a single phalanx appended to the distal extremity of the ulnar metacarpal bone.