MYRIAPODA. 556 Fig. 321. investment, either adipose or peritoneal, except only what belongs to itself; but is closely sur- rounded by cells of the second and third size. On the tenth day the great circulatory or dorsal vessel was distinctly seen through the amnion and skin. This doubtless had existed much earlier, although not observed. It was exceedingly well marked, but Mr. Newport was as yet unable to detect any motion in it. The head of the embryo had now begun to assume the peculiar corneous appearance common to the larva? of true insects ; its body had much increased in size, and the amnion was still co- vered with microscopic drops of fluid. On the eleventh day the head was more dis- tinct, and the antennas appeared at its sides like short crescent-shaped clubs, with their terminations directed forwards. Above them the single ocelli were distinctly seen. All the segments, posterior to the third, exhibited the transverse line that indicated the division into double segments, and the posterior seg- ments were much increased in size. On the morning of the seventeenth day (Jig. 321) Mr. Newpoit found all the embryos ready to leave the amnion. Some of them were al- ready detached from the shell; others were still connected to it. Their increase of bulk within the last few hours had been very great. The body was now more straightened, the head less inflected under the thorax, and the eye was a dark-coloured spot above and behind the antennae. The segments of the body were di- vided by distinct reduplicatures of the proper tegument, and the legs folded side by side against the ventral surface were much further extended beneath the amnion {b, a). The trans- verse divisions of the first six segments strongly marked the original segments, and the amnion, now about to burst, was tightly extended over the dorsal surface, and by the elongation of the body was rendered more distinct on the ventral. The great increase in the length of the animal was mainly occasioned by the growth of the posterior segments, more especially those in the antepenultimate space, the proper germinal space or membrane (_/'), the faint divisions of which into new segments were now distinctly seen through the amnion. The seven anterior segments, including the head, were greatly en- larged, and the hitherto minute anal and pe- nultimate segments (8, 9), in the first of which the remains of the funis (d) forms a rudimen- tary spine, had also become enlarged, and were now fast acquiring the form they afterwards retain throughout the life of the animal. Some of the specimens soon threw off their covering and entered the third period of development. The animal was now greatly enlarged, and possessed three pairs of legs, but it still lay with these newly developed legs coiled up without voluntary motion. The amnion had been fissured at its anterior dorsal surface, and slipped off backwards from the posterior seg- ments, and lay at the anal extremity, while the animal itself, with its limbs coiled up, appeared as if exhausted with these its first spontaneous efforts. No other signs of animal existence were given than occasional slight movements of the antenna?. The embryos thus passed from their apparently inanimate to an animated state of existence, from a condition in which they appeared merely to vegetate, endowed with no voluntary or instinctive powers, but like the vegetable formed entirely of an aggre- gation of cells, totally incapable of spontaneous motion, to one in which they became active beings, gradually acquiring voluntary and in- stinctive faculties both as regards the means of procuring nourishment and of preserving themselves from injury. In about an hour after leaving the amnion the young Julus exhibited a marked change. Its head was elongated on the prothorax (2), the parts of the mouth were distinctly move- able, and the eye, a single ocellus on each side of the head, acquired a darker colour. The whole body had been increased at least one- fourth in bulk since leaving the amnion. It now measured about a line in length, and ex- hibited very distinctly the nine original seg- ments The seven anterior of these were strongly marked. In the germinal space, (Jig. 321, /i) between the original seventh and eighth segments, six new segments were now developed. These were still very small, the length of the whole being equal only to that of one of the original segments. At the present time they did not form independent divisions of the body, but were covered by the common tegument, and thus appeared like supplementary parts of the seventh segment produced from the germinal membrane and interposed between the seventh and the penultimate segment (8), which, as be- fore stated, is a permanent segment throughout the life of the animal. This latter fact shews that it is not merely by an elongation and division of the terminal segment that the body of the Julus is developed, but that it arrives at its per- fect state by an actual production of entirely new segments; that these are new growths or formations which are in progress long before they are apparent to the eye, and that the original segments of the ovum into which the animal is first moulded are permanent segments throughout its whole life. But still more curious is it that not only have new segments been formed as described, but that the common tegument by which they are now covered and which also invests the whole body as the true skin, has already begun to be detached preparatory to its being thrown off, as is shewn in the fact that the new segments are now seen beneath it; and it is further remark- able that this deciduation of the first skin of the animal had actually commenced before the bursting of the amnion. These circumstances explain the cause of the very quiescent state of the young Julus, and its almost and perhaps entire abstinence from food whilst this skin remains on its body. It is not until this skin