PISCES. 975 that of their teeth and bones, as will be evident from the following analysis made by M. Che- vreul of the scales of a Lepidosteus, of a Cheto- don, and of the Perca labrax, after they had been thoroughly dried by exposure during six weeks to a dry atmosphere. In drying, the scales of Lepidosteus lost 11.75 per cent., of Chetodon 13 per cent., and those of the Perca labrax 16 per cent. Fatty matter principally con sisting of oleine Azotized matter . . Chloride of sodium Sulphate of soda Subcarbonate of soda Subcarbonate of lime Phosphate of lime (of bone) Phosphate of magnesia Peroxide of iron . - Loss . . . . , Scales of Lepi- Perca Cheto- dosteus labrax. don. 0.40 0.40 1.00 41.10 55.0 51.42 00.10 Trace Trace. 00.10 00.90 " 1.00 00.10 00.00 ' 0.00 10.00 3.06 3.68 46.20 37.80 42.00 2.20 0.90 0.90 Trace Trace Trace 0.00 2.84 0.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 In a preceding article (see Osseous System, Comp. Anat.) we have endeavoured to shew that the scales which invest the exterior of the body constituting the exoskeleton of Fishes, by progressive modifications in their size, tex- ture, and arrangement, are converted into very various organs, namely, the apparently osseous plates that cover Lepidosteus and Ostracion, the formidable prickles that stud the external surface of the Diodons, the opercular flaps of the Sturgeon, and even those of the osseous Fishes; the spines of Gusterosteus, and those which in Silurus, Ba- tistes, and Lophius, were likewise proved to belong to the epi- dermic or tegumen- tary system; lastly, the fin-rays and in- terspinous bones of the vertical fins were found to be derivations from the exoskeleton, instead of being, as they have long been considered, parts ap- pertaining to the en- doskeleton or true osseous system. The dental organs of vertebrate animals have very naturally been regarded by the old anatomists who confined their osteolo- gical researches to the investigation of the human skeleton, as forming a part of the bony framework of the body, notwithstand- ing that the teeth in every particular of their economy were con- fessedly very different from any other pieces of the skeleton. Any one who with a little care examines the dental apparatus of Fishes will, however, speedily be convinced that the teeth in common with the epidermic structures above enumerated are all of cuticular origin, their connection with the real osseous skeleton, by their roots be- coming consolidated with certain bones of the mouth or implanted into the jaws, being by no means an essential or even constant circum- stance. Every one knows that the skin covering the body of the Skate or Thornback is thickly studded with calcareous spines, some of microscopic size, but others of considerable dimensions. On tracing these cuticular spines towards the mouth they are found, as they pass over the manducatory surfaces of the upper and lower jaws, to become suddenly very much increased in size, and are arranged with such regularity that they constitute a very formidable set of dental organs, consisting of ten or a dozen rows of sharp teeth, which answer every purpose con- nected with the seizing and swallowing of food. These teeth, however, or scales, for such they indubitably are, have no connection with the jaws that support them except through the in- termedium of the cutis or mucous membrane covering the mouth, from which they are deve- loped, and are continually in these Plagiostome genera in progress of formation behind as they are worn away in front, their developement being accomplished in the following manner.* A series of minute and closely aggregated pa- pilliform matrices or pulps rise in succession from the mucous membrane behind the teeth already formed, which gradually become ossi- fied by the deposition of calcareous salts in the Fig. 509. is Skull and jaws of Port Jackson Shark ( Cestracion Philippii), shewing the forms and arrangement of the teeth. peripheral cells and radiating tubes of which the pulp consists. * Owen, Odontography, 4to. 1840.