905 PARTURITION. tube and uterus, and where Ihe fetus is gene- rally so large, the parturient process is equally simple, the uterus and vagina being converted by gradual dilatation into a simple continuous canal. In the higher classes of Reptilia we first perceive a regularly formed pelvis, viz. in the Sauna, and still more completely in the Chelonia, the pelvis in the latter being consi- derably advanced in point of developement, ■even as compared with the higher Mammalia ; indeed as regards pelvic developement these two classes of the Reptilia ought rather to be placed above the Aves, in whom, with one exception, the pelvis is much more imperfect. The rudi- mental trace of a pelvis which is seen in cer- tain of the fishes is evidently a modification of a scapula, and intended as part of the appa- ratus for propulsion, being connected with the ventral fin. In the Cetacea this is marked by ■the existence of two small thin flat bones im- bedded in muscle on each side the vent. In Birds this formation is still more marked, and here we first see distinctly the analogy pointed out by Meckel between the attachments to the trunk of the upper and lower extremities, the ilium corresponding to the scapula, the ischium to the coracoid process, and the pubic bone to the clavicle; the pelvis in them pre- sents the transition from the scapulary bones of the lower extremities, if we may so call them, in some of the fish tribe, to the completely formed bony canal of the higher Mammalia. The pelvic bones in Birds are still subservient to little else than the purposes of locomotion, the ossa pubis not uniting in front, their points terminating at a considerable distance from each other, but connected by a ligamentous band which is elastic and capable of considerable dilatation ; the process of par- turition here is as simple as in the inferior classes, the egg passing along the cloaca through the half bony, half fibrous canal of the pelvis. One solitary instance of a perfect pelvis pre- sents itself among the Aves, viz. in the ostrich, and where the symphysis pubis does not seem capable of much dilatation, although from the size of the egg there can be but little room to spare in the pelvis during its expulsion; an apparent approach to this formation is occa- sionally seen in birds which attain a consider- able age from the deposition of bony matter into the pubic ligament. An equally solitary example of an imperfect pelvis among the Mammalia is furnished by the lesser ant-eater, the pubic bones not being united. The lowest grade of parturition which (ex- cepting the Cetacea) is observed in the Mam- malia, is seen in certain Insectivora, viz. the mole, shrew, &c. in which this process is akin to that in those animals which either have no pelvis at all, or have them of a very imperfect kind. In the mole, &c. the pelvic cavity is so small as to be utterly useless for the pur- poses of parturition, not even containing the rectum, which, together with the vagina, passes down in front of the pelvis. In this instance, therefore, we have once more a strong analogy to parturition in the lower ovipara, es- pecially as in the above-mentioned animals the uterus is still at a low grade of formation, being cylindrical and scarcely to be distinguished from its Fallopian tube. A still further advance towards the perfect pelvis is seen in the Guinea-pig, an animal in Fig. 487. Pelvis of the Guinea Pii/12 hours after parturition.