;s Centres. The Spinal Cord.) 656 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervc fibrous substance, and that it is applied from within outwards on the surface of this latter. Consequently, the opinion of M. Gall, that it is formed prior to the medullary, and is, as it were, the matrix, is absolutely false with regard to the spinal marrow, for we already perceive the roots of the spinal nerves, in the second and third months, although at this period there is no cortical yet deposited in its canal." " It is very remarkable that the canal of the spinal marrow exists constantly and during the entire life of the animal, in fishes, reptiles, and birds. I have met it in a great number of fishes, both of salt and fresh water, such as the ray (Raia), shark (Squalus), bream (Cyprmus brama), bandfish (Cepola), pike (Esox), salmon, carp, &c; and I have always found its internal surface covered with a layer of grey substance. The observations of M. Arsaky agree perfectly with mine in this re- spect."* " I have observed the same canal, in ques- tion, in the hawk's-bill tortoise, common tor- toise, a young crocodile of the Nile, wall li- zard, ringed snake, land salamander, green frog, and the common toad. In front it is continuous with the fourth ventricle, or rather it dilates to give origin to this cavity, and its interior was covered with a thin layer of cortical substance." " Birds possess this canal both in their embryo state and in adult age. In these it forms, at its inferior part, a remarkable exca- vation, which Steno, Perault, Jacobceus, and some other authors have described under the name of the rhomboidal sinus. In birds, also, the grey substance occupies the interior, and is no where in greater abundance than on the walls of this sinus." " The canal equally exists in the spinal mar- row of the foetus of mammiferous animals, as also in the young animals of this class (?) F. Meckel has found it in the embryo of the rab- bit ;+ and G. Sewell in young animals of the genus dog, sheep, ox, and horse.J This latter writer observes that it was filled with a colour- less fluid, nearly opaque, and of the same na- ture as that which existed in the ventricles. F. Meckel has even met a small canal full of fluid in the spinal marrow of some of the adult mammiferous class, such as the dog, cat, rabbit, sheep, and ox. Blaes has met it also in many adult mammiferous animals. " Although we cannot find this canal in the spinal marrow of the human adult in its nor- mal state of developement, still it has undoubt- edly been met with; we should, then, consider it as the result of a retardation in its develope- ment. Charles Stephen § was the first who gave a description of it; and Coluinbo,|| Pic- * Diss, de piscium cerebro et medulla spinali. Halle, 1813, p. 9. f Beitrage zur Vergleichend : Anatoraie, cap. ii. No. i. p. 32. t Phil. Trans, for 1809. § De dissectione partium corporishumani, lib. iii. Par. 1545. De re anatomica, Ven. 1559. colhomini,* Bauhin,f Malpighi,} Lyser, § Golles,|| Morgagni^I Haller,** and M.Portal,tf have since observed it. Many of these writers have even considered it as a constant and nor- mal disposition ; an hypothesis which Varoli, Monro, S.ibatier, and some other anatomists have justly opposed. Nymman proceeded even still further, for he spoke of two canals prolonged into the spinal marrow. Gall pre- tends to have found in the spinal marrow of new-born infants, in infants of a certain age, and even in certain adults, two canals free from all communication with the fourth ven- tricle, but which extended through the pons Varolii,the tubercula quadrigemina and the me- dulla oblongata into the interior of theoptic tha- lami, where they formed a cavity sufficient to lodge an almond! These two supposed canals, with their termination in the optic thalami, do not exist; we must suppose that they are pro- duced by a forced insufflation : I have never met them either in the adult or in the foetus; nor do we find them in animals in which the canal of the spinal marrow always communi- cates with the fourth ventricle, by means of the calamus scriptorius."JJ We shall notice further on the recent state- ment of Stilling and VVallack on this subject. Bloodvessels of the spinal cord.—The arteries of the spinal cord are derived from the verte- bral arteries as well as from the small vessels which ramify upon the spinal column in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. Of these the largest and most important are the two spinal arteries which spring from the vertebral on each side, distinguished as the anterior and posterior spinal arteries. The anterior spinal artery is the larger of the two. It arises from the vertebral artery near to the basilar: sometimes it comes from the ba- silar itself, or from the inferior cerebellar; and sometimes the arteries of opposite sides have different origins, one arising from the vertebral and the other from the basilar. It passes nearly vertically downwards, inclining inwards, in front of the medulla oblongata, and having passed for a short distance in front of the cord, it unites at an acute angle with its fellow of the opposite side, forming a single vessel, which passes down in front of the anterior median fissure, under cover of the band of white fibrous tissue which is found along the middle of the anterior surface of the cord. The artery thus formed is called the anterior median artery of the spinal cord. " The anterior or median spinal artery," says Cruveilhier, " therefore, results from the anas- * Anatom. Pradectiones, Rom. 1586. t Theatrum Anatomicum. Francf. 1605. % De cerebro, in his Opera Minora, t. ii. p. 119. § Culter Anatomiccis. Copenhag. 1653. [| Abrege de l'ceconomie du grand et petit monde. 1670. H Adversar. Anatom. Animadv. xiv. ** Elem. Physiologise, t. iv. ft Observ. sur un spina bifida et sur le canal de la mbelle epiniere ; dans Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1770. Xt Dr. Bennett's translation of Tiedemann's Ana- tomy of the Foetal Brain, pp. 124 et sqq.