896 PAR VAGUM. above facts we believe that the oesophageal filaments are chiefly incident and motor, and a few of them only are sensiferous. Cardiac branches.—We have in a former part of this work (article Heart) had occasion to state that several celebrated physiologists have failed in exciting the muscular contractions of the heart by irritation of the trunk of the vagus before it gives off its cardiac branches, or of these cardiac branches themselves. We have very frequently repeated this experiment upon animals immediately after death, and we havenot been able to satisfy ourselves that galvanic and mechanical excitation of these nerves has any effect in renewing or increasing the contractions of the heart. No doubt we have not unfrequently seen the contractions of the heart become more frequent and vigorous during the performance of this experiment; but as similar changes in the strength and rapidity of its contractions are occasionally observed in an animal after death when no artificial excitant has been applied to these nerves, and from causes which cannot at present be explained, we did not think ourselves entitled to attribute these changes in the heart's action to the excitation of the nerves. Valen- tin* has stated that he has produced muscular contractions in the heart in different animals by irritation of the trunk of the vagus. He also states! that similar contractions of the heart were produced by excitation of the spinal ac- cessory and of the three superior (sometimes also of the fourth) cervical nerves, and he main- tains that the motor portion of the cardiac nerves comes from the spinal accessory and the superior cervical nerves. LongetJ mentions that he failed in influencing the rhythm of the heart by the application of galvanism to the vagi in dogs, rabbits, and sheep, but very fre- quently succeeded by scraping the cervical cardiac branches of the vagus. Allowing that it is possible to increase the contractions of the heart by galvanic or mechanical excitation of the vagus or its cardiac branches, it must be admitted by every one that there is a very marked difference between the heart and volun- tary muscles in this respect, for all those who have failed in their experiments on the nerves of the heart, have felt not the smallest difficulty in producing contractions of the voluntary muscles by excitation of their nerves. The in- creased frequency of the pulsations of the heart observed during and for some minutes after the division of the vagi may be fairly referred to the struggles and terror of the animal, and the feeble and rapid pulsation of the heart which precedes death from this experiment is not owing to any direct effect upon that organ. The sudden death occasionally remarked after the division of these nerves, and which some of the early experimenters attributed to arrest- ment of the contractility of the heart, was in fact dependent upon the suffocation of the animal by the suspension of the movements of the muscles which dilate the superior aperture * Opus cit. p. 48,62 and 66. t Opus cit. p. 6*2. i Opus cit. &c. torn. ii. p. 314. of the larynx. We have related several expe- riments which appear to prove that when in- juries of the brain and mental emotions affect the contractility of the heart, the nervous influ- ence is not transmitted by the cardiac branches of the vagi alone, but may also pass along the filaments of the sympathetic or ganglionic system of nerves. Pulmonary branches.—Do the pulmonary branches of the vagus contain motor filaments? We have made various unsuccessful attempts to produce contractions in the muscular fibres of the bronchial tubes by excitation of the vagi in the neck.* Dr. C. T. B. Williamsf was also unsuccessful on attempting this experiment, though he succeeded in producing contractions in the bronchial muscular fibres by their direct excitation, as by transmitting galvanism through the substance of the lungs, &c. Longet and Volkmann have not only succeeded in exciting contractions of the muscular fibres of the bronchii by direct stimulation, but also by ex- citants applied to the branches of the vagus.}; To what extent are the pulmonary branches of the vagus sensiferous ? Brachet relates some experiments which seem to prove that the sen- sation arising from the want of fresh air in the lungs, or the besom de respirer, is annihilated by the division of vagi.§ Mr. Grainger|| re- peated one of Brachet's experiments, and seemed satisfied that his conclusions were correct. There are certain sources of fallacy attending the mode in which Brachet performed his ex- periments against which he has not taken the necessary precautions. We have satisfied ourselves by numerous experiments that the sense of anxiety arising from the want of fresh air in the lungs conti- nues after dividing the vagi when the access of air to the lungs is prevented ;1f and Volkmann** and Longetff from their experiments have also arrived at the same conclusion. It is possible that certain impressions which may excite the besoin de respirer are conveyed upwards to the encephalon through the medium of the sympa- thetic, but it is more probable that in the con- ditions induced by the experiment it was more immediately dependent upon the circulation of ill-arterialized blood through the tissues of the body, and more especially through the ence- phalon. We do not mean to deny that im- pressions conveyed along the vagi to the ence- phalon may not excite the besoin de respirer; on the other hand, we believe that it is very prob- able that this sensation as first felt, when the respiration is suspended for a short time in the healthy condition of the body, is dependent upon impressions conveyed along this nerve. When, » Opus cit. for 1839. t Transactions of British Scientific Association for 1840, p. 411. $ Longet, opus cit. torn. ii. p. 289, and Volk- mann in Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physio- logie, article Nervenphysiologie, p. 586. 6 Systeme Nerveux Ganglionaire, p. 133-4-5. \\ On the Spinal Chord. t Opus cit. for 1838. ** Muller's Archives for 1841. See also Forbes' British and Foreign Review for Jan. 1842, p. 223. tt Opus cit. torn, ii., 291-2, 1842.