NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. bianches of the portal vein, and the secretion of bile therefore might still have been derived from venous blood." " M. Simon and Mr. B. Phillipps have in- ferred from experiments which they performed, that the bile is secreted from the blood of the portal vein. But Mr. Phillips found that after the vena portae had been tied the secretion of the bile still continued, though in di- minished quantity; and he concludes, there- fore, that it is formed both from arterial and venous blood. He perceived no change in the biliary secretion when the hepatic artery was tied." The cases recorded by Wilson, Abernethy, and Lawrence are interesting, but they do not appear to me to affect in the slightest de- gree the arguments on either side of the pre- sent question. It is true that it might be asserted in behalf of Miiller's opinion, that the blood sent to and circulating in the liver was arterial, and that from this alone bile was secreted, for in both cases bile was found in the gall-bladder, while the vena porta emptied itself into the vena cava. On the other hand it was ascertained by Kieinan in the only one of the three cases in which the liver was pre- served, that the umbilical vein (hepatic portal) was pervious, of considerable size, and rami- fied as usual through the portal canals and terminated as usual in the lobular venous plexus. Now, although the hepatic portal vein (umbilical) did not obtain its accustomed supply of blood after the placental circulation was arrested, from the abdominal portal vein, yet there is no reason for supposing that it did not collect the venous blood from the capillaries of the arteries supplying the coats of the ex- cretory ducts and other vessels. Again, the transmission of the remaining portion of the arterial circulation through the vaginal, the interlobular, and lobular arteries must have seriously affected its arterial character if it have not indeed altogether converted it into venous blood. Although Mayo, who took part in the examination of this liver, observed upon this point that " it cannot be supposed that the arterial blood, in its passage through the vasa vasorum into the blanches of the umbilical (hepatic portal) vein underwent the usual change into venous blood ; and it was still, he contended, arterial blood, though less pure in character, which was conveyed through venous canals into the secreting part of the liver." Now it may be fairly presumed that blood which is not arterial must be venous; but it must at the same time be admitted that the normal degrees of arterialisation are various in individuals, and different in different regions of the body at the same moment; so that no satisfactory argument can be sustained upon an assumption of the sub-arterial character of the blood. I would rather suggest another train of reasoning. The abdominal portal vein re- turning blood possessed of peculiar properties from the chylopoietic viscera terminates in a rare anomaly in the inferior cava, so that the portal blood is mingled with the general venous Current of the system. The lungs receiving this blood exert their appropriate intiuence in separating from it a portion of the noxious ele- ments with which it is combined ; but it cannot be supposed that this blood will return to the heart as pure in character as that which has circulated in the usual way through the other depurating organ, the liver. No; it still con- tains the elements from which bile may be secreted, and a larger portion than usual is therefore sent to the liver, that this secretion may be eliminated. Hence we cannot treat the blood thus flowing into the liver from the aorta in a much larger current than natural (" in ordinary cases one principal artery is found in each canal ; in this case two, and in some places three arteries of equal calibre were found in each canal") as mere arterial blood destined for nutrition alone; but we must re- gard it as a fluid bearing in its course the ele- ments of the bile ; and therefore, whether it be poured through the capillary channels of the lobular venous plexus, or through those of its own developing in the substance of the lobules, it is nevertheless an abnormal influence which cannot be tested by man's decision, but is part of the compensating principle so admirably displayed by nature in all her operations. With regard to the evidence of experimental operations upon living animals, this must at all times be unsatisfactory and inconclusive from the difficulty of observing and apprecia- ting the consequences of the experiment, and from the morbid condition impressed upon the animal by the serious nature of the operations themselves Those which have been performed are favourable to the conclusion that the bile is separated from the blood of the portal vein. But I have little faith in such experiments ;— after the ligature of the portal vein, the animal lives but a short period ; the blood arrested in its current is conveyed through the medium of inosculations into the general venous circula- tion, and then, as I have above suggested, if the animal survive sufficiently long, the bile may be secreted from the fluid which contains it, viz. from the arterial blood. Cuvier entertains the opinion, that the bile is secreted from venous blood, as may be per- ceived in the following passages:—"Le foiedes animaux vertebres a en effet un caractfere qu'il ne partage avec aucune autre glande ; c'est que sa secretion est alimentee par du sang veineux; par du sang qui a dcja circule, et qui n'est pas retourne au cceur, ni par consequent au poumon. Cette circonstance a lieu, non-seulement dans des animaux a circulation double, ou tout le sang doit repasser par le poumon, avant de se rendre aux parties, le foie excepte ; mais encore dans les animaux a circulation simple (les reptiles), ou une si grande portion du sang arteriel n'a point retourne au poumon, et tient par consequent de la nature veineuse ; c'est presque alors du sang deux fois veineux qui se rend dans le foie." May we not, therefore, from the powerful arguments afforded by anato- mical investigation, and from our knowledge of the compensating energies aroused by nature in cases of anomaly,—may we not, at least until weightier reasons to the contrary shall be N 2