MICROSCOPE. 345 so that it may be free from vibration. An amount of vibration, which is imperceptible when low powers are used, is sufficient to render the most perfect optical arrangements for high magnifying powers next to useless. That the whole instrument should be secured as much as possible from vibration, by being placed upon a steady table, and this on a steady floor, is of the first importance for its advantageous employment. But, as an entire freedom from this cause of vibration can rarely be obtained in an ordinarily-constructed house, the next point to be aimed at is such an ar- rangement of the optical portion of the instru- ment in regard to the object, that any vibra- tion which takes place may affect both alike, in which case it will be scarcely perceptible. In many microscopes of ordinary construction the stage is comparatively motionless, whilst the body (containing all the optical portion) is subject to tremor; and in such instruments, when a high magnifying power is employed, the object is seen to oscillate so rapidly upon the slightest cause of vibration (such as a per- son walking across the room or a carriage rol- ling by in the street) that it is frequently almost indistinguishable. Various modes have been devised for obviating this inconvenience, the chief of which we shall hereafter notice. 2. Capability of accurate adjustment to every variety of focal distance, without move- ment of the object. It is now a principle almost universally recognised in the construc- tion of good microscopes, that the stage on which the object is placed should be a fixture; and that the movement by which the focus is to be adjusted should be effected in the body or optical portion. Several reasons concur to establish this principle, which was, we believe, first insisted upon by Dr. Goring.* Among the most important we consider to be that, if the stage is made the moveable part, the ad- justment of the illuminating apparatus must be made afresh for every change of magnify- ing power, whilst, if the stage is a fixture, the illumination having been once well adapted, the object may be examined under a great variety of magnifying powers, without its being changed in any respect. Moreover, if the stage is the moveable part, it can never have that firmness given to it, which it ought for many purposes to possess. It is almost im- possible to make a moveable stage free from some degree of spring; so that, when the hands bear upon it in adjusting the position of an object, it yields to an amount which, however trifling, becomes apparent with high powers by the alteration of the focus. We might add many more reasons, but these will here suffice. It having been determined, then, that focal adjustment should take place in the optical portion of the microscope, the next point for consideration is the mode of effecting it. This should be such as to allow free range from a minute fraction of an inch to three or four * See Pritchard and Goring's Microscopic Illus- trations. inches, with equal power of obtaining a deli- cate adjustment at any part. It should also be so accurate that the axis of the instrument should not be in the least altered by movement in a vertical direction ; so that, if an object be brought into the centre of the field with a low power, and a higher power be then substituted, it should be found in the centre of its field, notwithstanding the great alteration in the focus. In this way much time may often be saved by employing a low power as a finder for an object to be examined by a higher one; and, when an object is being viewed by a suc- cession of powers, no readjustment of its place on the stage is required, such as would other- wise be necessary for each. The best modes of securing these ends, also, will be considered in their proper place. 3. The power of placing the instrument in either a vertical or a horizontal position, or at any angle with the horizon, without deranging the adjustment of its parts to each other, and without placing the eye-piece in such a posi- tion as to be inconvenient to the observer. It is certainly a matter of surprise that opticians should have so long neglected the very simple means which are at present so commonly em- ployed, of giving an inclined position to mi- croscopes ; since it is now universally acknow- ledged that the vertical position is, of all that can be adopted, the very worst. We do not ourselves consider the horizontal position of the body and its appendages at all an advan- tageous one, although it has been adopted in some of M. Chevalier's latest and best instru- ments. In the first place it requires that the whole microscope should be raised so much above the level of an ordinary table, as to bring the eye-piece to the height of the eye of the observer when sitting upright at his ease; if this be not done, a constrained and conse- quently disadvantageous position of the head is required on his part; and if it be, all the manipulations must be executed at an elevation very inconvenient and fatiguing to the arms. Moreover either the stage must be rendered vertical, in which case all the objects must be so secured (to prevent their slipping) as to render the necessary movement of them very difficult; or, the stage being horizontal, the direction of the rays must be changed, after they have passed through the object-glass, by a prism or a mirror placed at an angle of 45° in their course, as in M. Chevalier's construc- tion, which we think a decided disadvantage, as introducing another source of imperfection and error. We believe that it will be gene- rally acknowledged, that an inclination of about 45° to the horizon is the most convenient for unconstrained observation ; and the instrument should be so arranged, that, at such an incli- nation, the stage may be so far elevated above the table, that, when the hands are employed at it, the elbows may rest upon the table. In this manner a degree of support is attained, which gives such free play to the muscles of the hands, that movements of the greatest nicety may be executed by them; and the