NOSE. 729 septum, and many more to that of the alae; many of them, also, first rising and then de- scending, form arches which are continued over the outer and posterior margin of the nostril, and are mingled with the fibres of the two preceding muscles, where they meet in the skin covering that part. These muscles draw back and flatten the nostrils. Some of their fibres are mingled with those of the depressor labii superioris, or su- perior incisive muscle, and, whenever they act^ the upper lip is fixed and somewhat elongated. 5. Depressor septi narium, or nasulis labii superioris, (Haller, Albinus; naso-labial, Bour- gery; k, fig. 403 ;) maybe regarded as a part of the upper portion of the circumference of the orbicularis oris, from which several fibres pro- ceed forwards and inwards, converging from each side towards the septum of the nose. They are attached to the fibro-cellular tissue at the pos- terior borders of the nostrils, and the middle fibres pass forwards under the septum between it and the skin of the columna, many of them extending nearly to the tip of the nose. When the rest of the orbicularis is fixed, this portion will draw the columna and the apex of the nose backwards and downwards; and when the rest of the orbicularis is relaxed, it will draw the middle of the upper lip upwards. 6. I have mentioned a layer of pale mus- cular fibres arranged in various directions under the skin of the lower part of the ala nasi, among which fibres of the compressor, de- pressor, and levator alas nasi appear to mingle, it is by these fibres that the dilatation of the nostril is commonly effected; for, as any one may feel and see in his own person, this act is not usually performed by any of the muscles yet described, but by fibres which are situated below the triangularis and entirely within the moveable part of the ala. In most instances, no definite arrangement of these fibres can be perceived; yet they certainly sometimes form distinct fasciculi, which may be described as separate muscles. Arnold makes from them two muscles: 1. Compressor murium minor, (g,fig. 403), a small triangular muscle pass- ing from the skin of the tip of the nose back- wards and a little upwards, with its fibres diverging, to the anterior part of the inferior cartilage. Theile has never seen this muscle; in one very muscular subject I found a dis- tinct trace of it; and it nearly corresponds to that which Santorini has drawn, (tab. i. e, e) and which he says he once saw in action du- ring dyspnoea in a woman. He regarded it as a dilator of the anterior part of the pinna; Arnold considers it a compressor ; the former opinion is the more probable. 2. Arnold has figured a larger quadrilateral muscle, le- vator alte nasi proprius (/(, fig. 403), which is nearly the same as Theile's dilatator narium anterior. Theile describes it as arising from the upper edge and outer surface of the inferior cartilage, its origin extending from within two lines of the dorsum of the nose to the sesa- moid cartilages. Hence its fibres proceed downwards and are lost in the skin on the anterior part of the edge of the nostril. Its action is to draw the anterior part of the ala outwards, and thus to dilate the nostril. Theile also describes a dilatator narium posterior, which may be found by removing all the fibres of the common levator, the depressor aire nasi and the triangularis. A mass of cel- lular tissue is thus exposed on the inferior and posterior part of the ala, in which muscular fibres may always be seen with the microscope, if not with the naked eye. They arise tendi- nous from the edge of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone and from the sesa- moid cartilages, and thence descending are lost in the skin of the posterior half of the edge of the nostril. Their action is to draw the poste- rior part of the ala outwards, and thus to dilate the nostril. 7. One more muscle may be mentioned, though it is only indirectly connected with the nose. It is that named rhomboideus by San- torini (tab. i. /'), and anomalus by Albinus, from its being fixed at both its ends to immovable points. Its origin is confounded with that of the triangularis at the upper and outer part of the canine fossa; whence its fibres proceed in a broad fasciculus upwards and inwards in the fossa by the side of the nose to be attached to the surface of the superior maxillary bone close to the outer origin of the levator communis. The strength of the fibres of this singular mus- cle indicates that they must act frequently; but the only effect which their contraction can be supposed to have is that of tightening and drawing in the tissues over thein with which they are pretty closely connected. The purposes served by the muscles of the nose are but few. Their action contributes little to the various expressions of the con- dition of the mind. The sneer of contempt is perhaps the only expression in which they take a chief part. In extreme fear they appear also to be all contracted; but in this they are affected in common with the other muscles of the face, which all seem to be seized by a tem- porary spasm. Their other acts have reference to respiration, and are observed in their ex- treme degrees, in the dilatation of the nostrils to permit the freer ingress of the air in dys- pnoea, and in their contraction in the endea- vour to perceive a slight odour, by drawing the air quickly upwards towards the seat of the most numerous filaments of the olfactory nerve. Integuments of the nose.—In their general characters these resemble the skin and mucous membrane of other parts: their peculiarities alone therefore need be here described. The skin of the nose is smooth and fine, its papillae being small and its cuticle very thin. It is soft, also, and pliant, and usually abun- dantly furnished with the sebaceous secretion. The hairs growing in it are numerous and ex- ceedingly fine, so that many have denied their existence ; the largest and most closely set are at the lower part of the ate. The follicles enclosing them are deep and narrow ; the co- nical pulps long and slender. The sebaceous glands are narrow and elongated ; they lie near the sides of the follicles, have very short ducts, and are placed at but a little distance below