MOTION. 413 ceilings of rooms in opposition to the force of gravity, and to hold the mechanism of the joints together with a force proportional to their respec- tive areas. The air being elastic, its density decreases as the elevations above the earth's surface increase, and when the heights increase in an arithme- tical progression the densities decrease in a geometrical progression ; hence, in the flight of birds, the weight of air which they displace, and the effective force of their wings must continually vary with every change of eleva- tion. Animals moving in water at various depths are not subjected to the same variations of den- sity that are experienced in air, since water, being nearly incompressible, suffers no sensible change of volume at the greatest depths of the ocean ; but although the density remains nearly con- stant, the pressure increases with the depth, being equivalent to about one pound on the square inch for every two feet. The specific gravity of water being from 800 to 1000 times greater than air, its pressure becomes very great at the known depths to which many fishes and cetaceous animals descend. Resistance of fluids.—Animals moving in air and water experience in those media a sensible resistance, which is greater or less in proportion to the density and tenacity of the fluid, and the figure, superficies, and ve- locity of the animal. An inquiry into the amount and nature of the resistance of air and water to the progression of animals will also furnish the data for estimating the proportional values of those fluids acting as fulcra to their locomotive organs, whether they be fins, wings, or other forms of lever. The motions of air and water, and their direc- tions, exercise very important influences over velocity resulting from muscular action. The resistance of a plane moving perpendi- cularly to itself in a fluid, equals the weight of a column of the fluid of which the base is equal to the plane, and the altitude to the depth through which a body would fall to acquire by gravity the velocity of the plane.* If the directionf of the motion, instead of being perpendicular to the plane, as before supposed, be inclined to it at any angle, the * Let a represent the area of the plane, v the velocity, p the specific gravity of the fluid, then the height due to the velocity being-!!, the whole resistance will be diminished in the triplicate ratio of the sine of the angle of inclination. When a body is termi- nated by a curved surface generated by the revolu- tion of a plane round its axis, and moves parallel to that axis, the amount of resistance may be ob- tained by the formulae and analysis subjoined.* Tig. 216. resistance is a p_ 2g- .(9.) hence, cwteris paribus, the resistance is as the square of the velocity. t Let a b (fig. 215) be the plane, and b d the direction of its motion, a n d the angle whose sine is s, the number of particles which strike the plane, as well as the force of each particle, will be dimi- nished in the ratio of 1 to .1, therefore the whole resistance will be diminished in the ratio of 1 ; s2, but the effective part of the resistance being per- pendicular to the plane, the whole resistance in the direction a e is to the effective part in the direction b e perpendicular to a b, as a e and b e, But the forms of animals, though symme- trical, can rarely be considered as mathemati- cally regular figures, and consequently many of the data for calculating the resistance to their movements must be derived from experi- ment. Passive organs of locomotion. Bones.—The solid framework, or skeleton of animals which supports arid protects their more delicate tissues, whether chemically composed of entomoline, carbonate, or phosphate of lime; whether placed internally or externally; or whatever may be its form or dimensions, presents levers and fulcra forthe action of the muscular system, in all animals furnished with earthy solids for their support, and possessing locomotive power. The form, strength, density, and elasticity of skeletons vary in relation to the bulk and locomotive power of the animal, and to the media in which it is destined to move. or as 1 to s. Hence the whole resistance in the direction of the motion will be diminished in the ratio of 1 : s3, and will therefore be a p »s s? .(10.) * Let if ad (fig.2\U)be the section through the axis ca of thebody whose motion is in the direction of c a, draw the tangent e g to any point of the curve meeting the axis produced in g, draw the ordinates e / and e f indefinitely near each other, also draw e' a parallel to g c, then let cf ~ x, e f ~ y, b e ~ z, and s the sine of the angle g to the radius 1 ; then 2 tt y is the circumference of the circle whose radius is e f and 2 nt y x e e' or 2 it y d z is the surface described by e e in its re- volution about the axis c a, which is the quantity represented by (a) in the preceding note, therefore lit viz. or—! ydz (11.) 2g J ' g . . will be the resistance on that ring or the differen- tial of the resistance to the body whatever its figure may be.—(See Gregory's Mechanics, chap. v. p. 521.)