PISCES. 968 other, as those of a chain, and another, which at the will of the fish becomes very moveable or very fixed. We find examples of both these in the family Silurus. The articulations with determinate move- ments offer ligaments, cartilaginous surfaces, and a synovial fluid, as in higher animals. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae are effected by means of a fibro- cartilaginous substance which traverses the bodies, and which sometimes, as in the Stur- geon and the Lamprey, takes the form of a long cord. The articulations of the opercular bones be- tween themselves, the pieces composing the branchial apparatus, the bones of the shoulder, of the arm, of the carpus and pelvis, and of the last to the shoulder, are effected by means of interposed fibro-cartilaginous substance. Muscular system.—The general character of the myology of Fishes has been treated of in a preceding article, (Muscular System, Comp. Anat.) It will therefore only remain for us in this place to give such an account of their arrangement as the limits of this article permit, dividing them into groups so as to faci- litate reference to the accompanying figures, representing the dissected muscles of the Perch, as described by Cuvier. The great lateral muscles on each side of the trunk of the body form a mass that extends from the back of the head and posterior surface of the pectoral zone all the way to the sides of the base of the caudal fin. These two great muscles are divided transversely by aponeurotic lamina? into as many layers of fibres as there are vertebrae, giving the flaked appearance to the flesh of Fishes, (Jig. 502,/, g, h,) and are connected to all the vertebrae and vertical processes of the spine as well as to the inter- spinous bones. Superior and inferior slender muscles of the Myology of the Perch trunk.—These are situated in the interspace between the lateral muscles, both along the middle of the back and also of the ventral aspect of the body. Proper muscles of the fins.—In the caudal tin these are of three kinds, some being super- ficial, others deep-seated, and a third passing from one ray to another. In the dorsal and anal fins the arrangement of the proper muscles is very simple, because they are all disposed uniformly, each fin-ray having six, viz. four deep-seated and two su- perficial. The superficial muscles are inserted into the fin-ray at its base, one on the right and the other on the left side, and serve to move it in corresponding directions. The deep-seated set (figs 505, 3 and 4) arise from the interspinous tones, and are inserted into the anterior and posterior aspects of the base of the ray, serving to elevate or depress it vertically. After Cuvier. The movements of the shoulder are effected by the great lateral muscles inserted into them, or by strips derived therefrom. The muscles of the pectoral fins (figs. 502, 503, 505, 14, 15, and 16) are inserted into the fin-rays, which they serve to elevate or depress at pleasure. The muscles of the ventral fins, (fig. 503, 17 and 18) arise from the pelvic bone, and serve to expand or advance the fin-rays of the abdo- minal members. The muscles of the jaws are represented by a large mass, (fig. 502, 20, 20,) derived from the palato-temporal arch and the anterior edge of the preoperculum, which is inserted into the lower jaw, and serves to close the mouth ; an arrangement very different from that of the temporal and masseter muscles of the higher vertebrata. Muscles of the palato-ti/mpanic arch consist of a depressor, (fig. 504, 22,) derived from the