NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 667 the orang otang more than the European brain does, except in the more symmetrical distribu- tion of the gyri and sulci. It is not even cer- tain that this is always the case. We cannot therefore coincide with the opinion of many naturalists, who say that the Negro has more resemblance to apes than Europeans in refe- rence to the brain and nervous system. It is true that many ugly and degenerate Negro tribes on the coast show some similarity in their out- ward form and inward structure to the ape; for instance, in the greater size of the bones of the face, the projecting alveoli and teeth, the pro- minent cheek-bones, the recession of the chin, the flat form of the nose-bones, the projecting and strong lower jaw, the position of the fora- men occipitale magnum, the relative greater length of the ossa humeri and the bones of „the foramen, the flat foot, and in the length, breadth, shape, and position of the os calcis. * * * These points certainly distinguish many Negro tribes from the Europeans, but they are not common to all the Negroes of the interior of Africa, the greater number of which are well made, and have handsome features."* A series of researches so extensive and con- ducted with so much care, (although the actual comparison of the brains themselves is yet wanting,) cannot allow a doubt to arise as to the conclusion which ought properly to flow from them. It would appear from them that no very marked differences exist between the brains of any of the classes of mankind—that the same relative inferiority of women to men is universally met with—and that a very dimi- nutive state of brain may be, when not an ac- companiment of idiotcy, either a part of a frame originally very small in stature, or a degenerate condition consequent upon a life of the lowest barbarism., under every possible physical impe- diment to the developement of bodily vigour, wholly deprived of moral or intellectual cul- ture, a state which becomes more and more degenerate in each succeeding generation, or, lastly, the effect of the mechanical compression to which many tribes subject the crania of their offspring in early infancy. In proceeding to the examination of the hu- man encephalon, it seems expedient to pre- mise a few observations on the method which it is most advisable to adopt for this purpose. 380. Section in the vertical direction, to show the relation and mode of connection of the various segments of the encephalon. (After Mayo.) 'j, fibres passing to the posterior lobe of the brain; g, corpus geniculatum externum; n, anterior of the corpora quadragemina (nates); b, posterior of cor- poraquadragemina (testes ) ; /, olivary fascicles ; o, olivary bodies ; v, ponsVarolii ; p, anterior py- ramids ; r, restiform bodies (forming part of the cms cerebri) ; *, processus e cerebello ad testes (cerebro - cerebellar commissure of Solly); c, cerebellum ; s, spinal cord. The inferior limit of the encephalon is the * The remaining observations of Tiedemann on the intellectual condition of the Negro merit atten- tive perusal. See also Prichard on the Physical plane of the occipital foramen. In examining History of Mankind, vol. p. 346'. i. p. 197, and vol. ii.