NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 103 lengthen the arm of the vertical lever of the arytenoid, and yield to any oblique force directed upon them. The cuneiform cartilages, ^Syn. cartilagines cuneiformes, sen Wrisbergiana,) are two small cylindrical cartilaginous bodies, situated im- mediately in front of the vertical prominence of the arytenoid cartilages in the fold of mu- cous membrane g, (Jig. 22.) They present a vertical and horizontal prominence in the shape of the letter L, and partake of the form of the arytenoid cartilages. They are not always pre- sent, and their existence in man is denied by Cruveilhier:* this however is an error. Both Cuvierf and Wolff J have confounded them with the cornicula or cartilages of Santorini. In the Quadrumana they are conspicuous, having the superior vocal ligaments attached to their bases, and they appear afterwards to con- nect them with the arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilages are sometimes described by Cruveilhier and other writers (though inac- curately) as the arytenoid glands. They serve as a link of connection between the arytenoid cartilages and superior ligaments. The epiglottis, from em, upon, yAwrra, the tongue. Syn. >CKr$%ov, Hipp.§ Ligula, Gal. Operculum, Cic. || Cartilugo epiglottidis. Epiglotte, Ft. Kehldeckel, Germ. The epi- glottis is a cartilaginous valve, situated at the base of the tongue, and covering the opening of the larynx. The direction of the epiglottis is vertical, except during the act of deglutition, when it becomes horizontal. In form it has been compared to a cordate leaf, (fig. 23,) or that of the artichoke. The di- mensions vary with the volume of the larynx. The anterior aspect of the epiglottis is convex, the posterior concave; it is partly free and partly connected : the free portion projects above the level of the base of the tongue. It is lined by the mucous membrane : the centre of its superior margin is very slightly notched. Inferiorly it terminates by a kind of pedicle, very thin and delicate, which is attached to the angle of the thyroid immediately above the plane of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Nu- merous foramina are observed, perforating its substance (f f, fig. 23), rendering the struc- ture of this cartilage less dense than that of the thyroid or cricoid cartilage. It is consi- dered to be more brittle, in consequence of the cohesion of its particles being affected by these perforations. Its elasticity, however, is augmented by each perforation admitting some fasciculi of the yellow elastic ligament which is expanded, and, as it were, rivetted on its an- terior aspect. In the larger Ruminantia, such as the ox, this structure is very conspicuous, the thickness of the elastic tissue being nearly equal to that of the epiglottis itself. This ligament is disposed so as to secure perma- nently the return of the epiglottis after its de- * Anat. Descript. t Lemons Anat. Comp. % De organo vocis Mammaliura. § In Lib. Morb. 1. || De Nat. Dcor. ii. p. 54. Fig. 23. A posterior angular view of the cartilages of the larynx, exposing the rugged and perforated structure of the epiglottis after the removal of the mucous membrane and tlie yellow elastic ligamentous tissues. (Drawn from a preparation in tlie Museum of King's College, London.) a a, the arytenoid cartilages ; b b, the superior cornua; c, the right inferior cornu; d, the posterior surface of the cricoid catilage; e, the foramen for the transit of the superior laryngeal nerve ; f f, the perforation of the epiglottis ; i, the superior margin of the thyroid; t, the trachea; h, the right inferior tubercle. pression in the act of deglutition, indepen- dently of any muscular fibres. Its perforations have been described as giving lodgement to " muciparous follicles," but their office seems not to have been hitherto thoroughly investi- gated. Articulations and ligaments of the larynx.— The articulations are divided, first, into those connecting the larynx with surrounding struc- tures, called extrinsic articulations ; and, se- condly, those peculiar to the larynx itself, termed intrinsic articulations. Extrinsic articulations. — The hyo-fhyroid