ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 71 which had been broken exceeded by about six times the same diameter of that of the opposite side. The fracture did not represent a straight transverse line, but was somewhat undulated. At the two extremities of the line of junction of the fracture it was quite evident that the union of the broken bone was immediate, and by the intervention of a true bony callus. Lallement presented Boyer with the patella thus solidly united, and he has given an engraving of it in his valuable work. In the collection of Dr. William Hunter, there is a well-marked instance of bony union of a transverse fracture of the patella, and other examples have been seen in the dead subject by Mr. Wilson. In Sir Charles Bell's museum were likewise similar specimens, one or two of which are now in the Museum of University College.* Dislocations of the femur from the tibia at the knee-joint.—The articular surfaces of the head of the tibia for the reception of the femoral condyles are very superficial; and although the semilunar cartilages are superadded to them for the reception of the condyles of the femur, they have no direct tendency to resist luxations of the femur at the knee-joint. On the other hand it is to be recollected that the surfaces by which the tibia and femur are articulated together are broad, and that the number and strength of the ligaments which unite these bones is considerable. The solidity of the arti- culation is further augmented by numerous and powerful tendons which surround the joint. Although therefore the knee-joint from its situa- tion and functions must be subjected to nume- rous injuries, dislocations are very seldom wit- nessed as the result of accident. Dislocations, however, occur in four different directions; two of them are incomplete and lateral while the others are perfect luxations, the femur being thrown either backwards or forwards. The lateral luxations are the rarest. The lower extremity of the femur is now and then dislocated backwards: the signs of the accident are the following. The thigh-bone is somewhat displaced to the side as well as back- wards, and the tibia is advanced before the condyles of the femur. The lower dislocated extremity of the osfemoris makes such pressure on the popliteal artery as to prevent the pulsa- tion of the anterior tibial artery on the foot. The patella and tibia are drawn by the rectus muscle forwards; such, Sir A. Cooper tells us, are the appearances the knee-joint presented in a man brought into St. George's Hospital in the year 1802. The limb in this case was easily reduced by extending the thigh from above the knee, and by drawing the leg from the thigh and inclining the tibia a little backwards. As soon as it was reduced, the popliteal artery ceased to be compressed, and the pulsation in the anterior tibial artery was restored. We will quote the following abstract of a case of dislocation of the lower extremity of the femur backwards;! the * Prof. Cooper. •f London Medical Gazette, May 14, 1836, given by Mr. Thomas Brittun, House Surgeon, Chester Infirmary. subject of the accident, besides other injuries? was brought into the Chester Infirmary with a very complete dislocation of the lower extremity of the femur backwards. The whole limb was shortened four or five inches, and the condyles of the femur could be felt plainly among the muscles of the calf of the leg, while the tibia was in advance of the femur and drawn up- wards on the anterior part of this bone. The leg and foot were swollen and cold ; all circu- lation below the knee was stopped; there were no marks of external contusion. It appears that although the pulleys were used to reduce the luxation, it was easily effected by gradual extension of the limb. It became necessary after about five weeks had passed from the time of the accident, to amputate the limb in conse- quence of an extensive abscess which formed in the ham and calf of the leg. Upon examining the amputated limb, it was found that the pop- liteal abscess was very extensive and commu- nicated with the knee-joint. On tracing the course of the artery, which had been previously injected, it was found to be obliterated from just below the point where it gives off the superior articular artery, exactly to its bifurcation into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The nerve also for this distance was slightly enlarged and firmer than natural, having a cord- like feel; the whole being so closely connected by dense cellular tissue as to be scarcely sepa- rable. The attachments of the muscles were all perfect and did not appear to have been lace- rated. With respect to the joint the lateral ligaments on both sides were perfect; the ante- rior crucial ligament had been absorbed, but the posterior crucial ligament and the posterior ligament of Winslow were united into one band ; the synovial membrane was healthy or but very little altered ; the semilunar cartilages, as well as those on the ends of the bones, were sound; there was no fluid in the joint. Case of dislocation of the femur backwards from the tibia.— Sir A. Cooper remarks that cases of dislocation of the knee-joint are so rare that every instance of this accident is worthy of recital. He adduces the following example from the experience of Mr. Too- good, of Bridgewater. Francis Newton, a strong athletic man thirty years old, fell from the fore part of a waggon, and was dragged a great distance before he was disentangled from the framework of the shafts. In two hours after the accident the left knee was observed to be very much swollen; the os femoris was dis- located backwards, and its lower extremity occupied the upper part of the calf of the leg, the internal condyle of the femur being nearly through the skin; the tibia, fibula, and patella were driven up in front of the thigh. The appearances of the limb were so dreadful that Mr. Toogood despaired at first sight of being able to reduce it, but to his surprise the reduc- tion was easy. The limb was placed in splints; the strictest antiphlogistic treatment with rest was prescribed ; the symptoms were mild, and he suffered little from pain or inflammation. Malgaigne, in a letter to Velpeau in the Ar- chives MedicaleS, June 1837, upon the subject