1001 PISCES. distinctly shews the plicated retina continued on to the surface of the ligament, which seems to be covered with the nervous expansion.* Humours of the eye.—The quantity of the aqueoushumour in a Fish's eye is comparatively very small, owing to the flat shape of the cor- nea and the almost perfect immobility of the iris. The posterior chamber is, indeed, quite deficient, the uvea of the iris being adherent to the capsule of the vitreous humour ; and even the anterior chamber is frequently materially encroached upon by the protrusion of the crystalline lens through the aperture of the pupil. As a refracting medium it is evident that the aqueous humour, being nearly of the same density as the surrounding medium, could have little effect in concentrating luminous rays, this duty being principally assigned to the powerful lens immediately behind it. The crystalline lens in Fishes is nearly of a spherical form, thus presenting the converse as regards its refractive power of what exists in the eye of Birds. The size of the lens in these aquatic animals is very great, so that it en- croaches largely upon the chamber of the vitreous humour, extending to more than half way between the pupil and the back of the cavity of the eyeball. Its consistence is very great, and its nucleus so hard as to remain transparent even after immersion in spirit of wine. It is enclosed in a soft capsule, between which and the surface of the crystalline lens is a small quantity of fluid, and is fixed in a deep depression in the fore part of the vitreous hu- mour by a circular membranous zone derived from the hyaloid tunic, which surrounds it like the artificial horizon of a geographical globe. Sir David Brewster, in an admirable paper on the anatomical and optical structure of the crys- talline lens,f gives the following interesting particulars relative to its minute organization in the class of Fishes. Its form is that of a prolate spheroid, the axis of revolution being a little longer than the equatorial diameter. This axis is the axis of the eye or of vision. The body or substance of the lens is enclosed in an exceed- ingly thin and transparent membrane, called its capsule ; and if this be punctured, a thickish fluid flows from the opening; but upon re- moving the capsule altogether, this fluid is found to constitute only the outer coat of the lens, the substance of the lens growing denser and harder as we approach the centre of it. The body of the lens is not connected with the capsule by any nerves or filaments what- ever ; on the contrary, it floats as it were within the capsule, and on holding the lens in his hand, SirD. Brewster observed its axis of revo- lution take a horizontal position whenever it was placed in an inclined direction. This was repeated several times with the same lens, although the experiment was tried unsuccess- fully with others. When the lens is taken out of its capsule, and the softer parts removed by rubbing it between the finger and thumb, a * Vide Preparation 1650, in the physiological series of the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons, London. t Phil. Transact, for 1833, p. 323. hard nucleus is obtained, which consists of regular transparent lamina? of uniform thick- ness, and capable of being separated like those of sulphate of lime or mica. When the surface of any lamina has been examined before it has been detached, it has the appearance of a grooved surface like mo- ther-of-pearl; and in large lenses it is often easy to trace these apparent grooves or lines to the two poles of the axis of revolution, the fibres bounded by them being consequently widest at the equator, and growing narrower and narrower as they approach the poles. The maximum breadth of these fibres is about the 5500dth part of an inch, but of course they become gradually attenuated as they approach the poles of the lens in either direction. Having thus determined the form and size of the fibres which enter into the composition of the crystalline lens, it remained to ascertain the mode in which they were fastened together so as to resist separation and form a continuous spherical surface, and this was found to be effected by a very curious mechanism, the con- tiguous fibres being united by means of teeth exactly like those of rack-work, the projecting teeth of one fibre entering into the hollows be- tween the teeth of the adjacent one. It was further found that the fibres gradually diminish in size towards the centre of the lens, and the teeth in the same proportion, so that the num- ber of fibres in any spherical coat or lamina was the same from whatever part of the lens it it was detached. In conclusion, Sir David Brewster observes, " In the lens of a Cod I found that there were 2000 fibres in an inch at the equator of a spherical coat or lamina, whose radius was |Bths of an inch; consequently there must have been 2500 in the spherical surface. If we now suppose that the breadth of each fibre is five times its thickness, and that each tooth is equal to the thickness of the fibre, or that five teeth are equal in breadth to a fibre, we shall obtain the following results for the lens of a Cod four-tenths of an inch in dia- meter :— Number of fibres in each la- mina or spherical coat . . 2,500 Number of teeth in each fibre 12,000 Number of teeth in each sphe- rical coat 31,250,000 Number of fibres in the lens . 5,000,000 Number of teeth in the lens . 62,500,000,000 or, to express the result in words, the lens of a small Cod contains five millions of fibres and sixty-two thousand five hundred millions of teeth. A transparent lens exhibiting such a mechanism may well excite our astonishment and admiration." The vitreous humour in Fishes is proportion- ally less abundant than in other races of Verte- brata,—a circumstance which is partly owing to the shortness of the antero-posterior dia- meter of the chamber of the eye-ball, and partly to the extent to which it is encroached upon by the large spherical crystalline lens; in other respects it presents no peculiarities worthy of special description. Muscles of the eyeball. —The eyeball of