PAR VAGUM. 881 (Fig. 486.) H One of the follicular nervous organs of the electrica torpedo. a, branch of fifth pair of nerves ; h, twigs going to the organ and passing through cc, the fibrous band ; d, the nerve as it lies on e, the granular mass ; f and g, the inner and the outer capsules containing fluid ; h, anastomosing filament from the preceding follicle ; anastomosing filament to the succeeding follicle. Much magnified and slightly compressed. From Savi. twig is derived from the fifth pair and passes first through a slit in the tendinous band. After passing this aperture it bends underneath the granular mass, and again emerges at the base of the follicle, but at the opposite side from that at which it entered. It is remarkable that the nerve is much thinner at its exit, and re- duced to an ex eedingly delicate filament (7), which proceeds along the tendinous band to the next follicle, penetrating its wall and join- ing its nerve at the point of its flexion under the granular mass (k). " On examining under the microscope the rounded granular mass, made flat by the com- pressor, and after the removal of the membranes of the follicle, we see the nerve running length- wise over it from end to end, the anastomosing branch coming from the preceding follicle (/c) and the very delicate filament which proceeds to that next in order (/). We further remark that the nerve of the follicle, in its course along the granular mass, gives off' a great number of elementary fibres, which disseminate themselves through the mass and thus reduce the nerve to so small a size. Sometimes I have fancied that these fibres formed loops and returned; but I have never obtained a clear view of their termi- nation. I am no less doubtful regarding the course of the elementary fibres of the anasto- mosing branch coming from the preceding follicle. Sometimes I have seen these fibres return towards the slit in the tendinous band and rejoin the nerve in order to regain the centre. In other cases I have seen these fibres pursue their primitive direction, and pass on with the rest towards the opposite end of the gTanular mass. Hence I imagine that the fibres of the anastomosing bundle do not all follow the same course, and that while some advance into the granular mass, others turn back towards VOL. 111. the centre through the slit in the fibrous band." " It occasionally happens that two nervous twigs pass from the main branch to the same follicle. When this happens, there are always two distinct granular masses." M. Savi then describes accurately the arrangement of the several series of these follicles in the torpedos which he examined, an account of which is not necessary for our present, purpose. In one example he found that the follicles amounted in all to two hundred and fourteen. We cannot adduce these remarkable and peculiar structures as at present throwing any light on the function of the Pacinian corpuscles, since we must confess with M. Savi that as yet we are entirely ignorant both of their real nature and use. Nevertheless the resemblance is such as, it is hoped, will warrant the introduction of the preceding account, which is new in this country, and very interesting in itself. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the several points of similarity and difference, which, after the de- tailed description of each now offered, may be readily apprehended by the reader himself. It only remains that we should direct atten- tion to the very admirable memoir of Henle and Kolliker on this subject. They corrobo- rated the principal results of Pacini, and added many most valuable observations which the use of higher powers of the microscope and perhaps greater experience in research had enabled them to make. These observations M. Pacini has recently informed me he has himself almost entirely confirmed. An excellent abstract of their labours appeared in the British and Foreign Medical Review for January, 1845, and in the following April Dr. Todd and myself gave an account of these structures, drawn up from origi- nal observations and containing some new results, though on the whole confirmatory of those previously published. See the Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol. i. p. 395. It is right to add that MM. A. G. Andral, Camus, and Lacroix, met with these bodies in 1833, and that they were noticed subsequently by Cruveilhier and Blandin in their respective works on descriptive anatomy, bnt without any real light being thrown on their nature or internal structure. * ( William Bowman.) PAR VAGUM NERVE. (Human Ana- tomy.) —- (Nirvus Vagus; Pncumogastric ; part of the sixth pair of nerves of the older anatomists; one of the three divisions of the eighth pair in the classification of Willis; the ninth pair of Andersch ; the tenth pair of Sommerring ; the mot/en sympalhique of Win- slow.) The par vagum, like the other cerebro- spinal nerves, consists of two nerves exactly similar at their origin, and placed on different sides of the mesial line of the body. It has a very long course,—passing down the neck, and through the thorax to the upper part of the abdomen,—is distributed upon numerous and dissimilar organs, and anastomoses very freely and extensively with the sympathetic and vari- ous cerebrospinal nerves. It is the chief nerve 3 L