INSTINCT. 8 or llama before they enter on the deserts, and which enable them subsequently to subsist without water for many days. But the instincts by which animals are en- abled to search for and obtain food may be easily supposed to be much more numerous and varied than those by which they merely seize and swallow it, and in fact furnish the conditions by which the varieties of the whole structure of animals are chiefly determined. Probably the greatest number of animals are nourished by the vegetable world in the living or dead state, and are continually guided by sensations, to which instinctive efforts are at- tached,—i. e. by appetites,—in the selection of food, which may in general be found and seized without much difficulty. But through- out the whole animal kingdom, from the mi- croscopic animalcules up to the largest of the Mammalia, a very great number of carni- vorous animals are found, who subsist on, and continually repress the numbers of, the herbi- vorous tribes; and it may easily be supposed that the instincts implanted in these animals, which oppose and counteract the varying efforts at self-preservation already mentioned, will be more varied, and bear more marks of contri- vance and ingenuity. Accordingly, from the numerous Vorticella:, or other animalcules, of the order Rotatoria, which excite currents in the water around them, and so attract into their stomachs many of the smaller ani- malcules, up to the lion, the whale, or the eagle, we find an infinite number of con- trivances and instinctive propensities, served by organs, by which the predaceous animals, of all the orders, are enabled to prey on the others. The Polype, Echinus, and Actinia, for example, among the Zoophyta, seize their prey, as it is brought to them by the waves, with their numerous tentacula; the Entozoa, and the leech and other of the Annelides, have the faculty and the necessary instinct of attach- ing themselves to the larger animals in the situations which suit them, as the (Jirrhipedes or barnacles do to vegetable substances. The cuttle-fish and other predaceous MoMusca have legs furnished with admirably constructed suckers and powerful jaws, and most of the Crustacea have claws and mandibles, suf- ficient to enable them to seize and destroy ma- rine animals of very considerable size; and it is unnecessary to enlarge on the powerful means of destruction, or on the instincts guid- ing their use, which are seen in many genera of each of the classes of vertebrated animals. There is often a peculiar instinct guiding each of the Carnivorous Mammalia to the part of the body of its victim where it can most easily inflict a mortal wound, to the throat in the case of a large animal, to the head in that of a small one, of which the cranium may be pierced. In the greater number of them, however, the instinctive actions by which their prey is obtained are distinguished only by power and violence ; and although much con- trivance is employed for adapting the different parts of the structure to the habits and des- tination of the animals, there is little apparent ingenuity in the modes in which the animals perform their office in creation. The attitude and gesture of the cat, the pointer, or the tiger, " slow stealing with crouched shoulders on his prey," is an example of instinctive con- trivance preliminary to the act of violence. The aspect and expression of many carnivo- rous animals,—not only of the Mammalia and birds, but of the shark, the cuttle-fish, the scorpion, the tiger-beetle, &c, are so adapted to the feelings and instincts of the animals on which they feed, as often to deprive them of the power of flight or resistance; and it is maintained by many, that some of the predace- ous animals have the power of fascinating their prey by merely fixing their eyes on them. Many have ascribed this power to the serpent; and Mr. Kirby asserts it with confidence of the fox * A few only of the predaceous ani- mals, as the dog and wolf, have the instinct of associating together for procuring their prey. It has been stated that the pelican and tiie dog-fish have a similar instinct.f But the more striking indications of con- trivance in the actions prompted by this in- stinct are to be found in some of the less pow- erful of the carnivorous tribes. The Lophius Piscatorius or fishing-frog, although a large fish, having no strength or speed, obtains its prey by stratagem, plunging itself in mud, or covering itself with sea-weed: " it lets no part of it be perceived except the extremity of the filaments that fringe its body, which it agitates in different directions, so as to make them ap- pear like worms. The fishes, attracted by this apparent prey, approach and are seized by a single movement of the fishing-frog, and swal- lowed by his enormous throat, and retained by the innumerable teeth by which it is armed." J A still more singular art is practised by the Choetodon rostratus, which feeds on flies, and, as Sir Charles Bell states, actually takes aim at them, and shoots them with a drop of water.§ The instinct of the myrmecophaga or ant-eater, which protrudes the tongue to allure flies to settle on it, and then suddenly retracts it to devour them, also deserves notice. A more complex art is practised by the ant-lion, which digs a pitfall in the track usually followed by ants, and conceals itself in the bottom of it, waiting for its prey. But of all contrivances in the animal creation for procuring food, the most complex and artificial are those of the different genera of spiders, equally curious on account of the peculiar organs by which they spin their webs, as of the peculiar and varied instincts by which they are guided in using them.|| For example, " any common black and white spider (Salticus Scenicus), which may always be seen in summer on sunny rails, &c, when it spies a fly at a distance, ap- proaches softly, step by step, and seems to measure his distance from it by the eye; then if he judges that he is within reach, first fixing * Vol. ii. p. 2(19. t See Darwin's Zoon. vol. i. p 229, 249. X See Kirby, vol. ii. p. 406, and pi. xiii. $ Bridgwater Treatise, p. 200. || See Kirby, vol. ii. p. 184 and 286.