727 NOSE. Fig. 402. Lateral view of the pinnal cartilages. nose, and the cartilages of the nostrils, be- cause they surround and in great measure de- termine the form of those apertures. The chief portion of each of them is nearly elliptical, and occupies the anterior part of the ala of the nose. Posteriorly, this portion either becomes suddenly narrower, and is continued in a long, undulating, and curved process through the middle part of the ala to the posterior and outer boundary of the nostril; or else it ab- ruptly ceases, and, in place of the process, there is a row of three or more small oval portions of cartilage, (sesamoid cartilages,) imbedded in the fibrous membrane which forms the rest of the basis of the ala, and connects all the moveable cartilages to one another. Anteriorly, this chief elliptical por- tion is also continued into a narrow process, which, after proceeding for a very short dis- tance forwards, turns round abruptly, and is directed backwards and a little downwards by the side of the lower margin of the cartilaginous septum, to which, as well as to its fellow on the opposite side, it is pretty closely connected by fibro-cellular tissue. In this course, the carti- lage reaches a little beyond the anterior edge of the septum, so that, at the tip of most noses, there is in the middle line a small fossa bounded on each side by the lateral cartilages, and at the bottom of which is the anterior edge of the septum. The inner portion of this cartilage extends along about two-thirds of the inner boundary of the nostril, and terminates in an evenly rounded border; its lower margin is always rather lower than that of the cartilagi- nous septum, and assists in giving width and support to the columna. Sometimes, but more rarely, this inner process of the inferior cartilage is, like the posterior and outer process, separate from the chief elliptical portion. The structure of the cartilages of the nose is essentially similar to that of the articular and other true cartilages, (cartilagines figu- rata, Meckauer.) Their cells are numerous, very close set and large; and next to each of their surfaces there are two or three layers of thin flattened cells, which give the borders of a section through the thickness of the cartilage a somewhat fibrous aspect. But the basis-sub- stance is, in reality, entirely destitute of fibres. The greater rigidity and firmness of the sep- tum-cartilage is due to its greater thickness ; its minute structure is similar to that of the cartilages of the ala;. The latter are easily flexible, but the pliancy of the sides of the nose does not depend on them alone, but in as great a degree on the tou'jh fibro-cellular membrane in which they are imbedded. The combination of the two tissues is indeed admirably adapted to the purposes winch are to be served. The cartilages are sufficiently rigid to give the alae a definite form during rest; and they are so elastic that, when the nostrils have been either compressed or expanded, they are restored to their natural position by the recoil of the carti- lages, without any muscular effort. If the whole side of the nose had been formed of cartilage, much stronger muscles would have been needed for the several movements of the nostrils; but, by the intervention of small por- tions of fibro-cellular membrane, these move- ments, whether rapid or long-sustained, are ef- fected by some of the weakest muscles of the body, and with a scarcely perceptible effort of the will. The arrangement is somewhat ana- logous to that in which strength and flexibility are combined by strong scales or plates being set on the pliant substance of the skin of va- rious animals. The muscles of the nose, like those of the rest of the face, are but ill-delined, and anatomists have differed much in both the description and the enumeration of them. The following ac- count is drawn from the results of several dis- sections purposely made, and compared with the descriptions of Santorini,* Arnold,! Theile,} and others, who have examined the matter for themselves. Fig. 403. Muscles of the nose. a, nasal bone; b, nasal process of superior maxillary bone ; c, pyramidalis nasi; d, d, leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi; e, e, triangularis; f, depressor alse nasi; g, compressor narium minor; h, dilatator narium anterior; i, orbicularis oris; h, depressor septi narium. * Observationes Anatomical, cap. i. f Icones Anatomies, Fasc. II. tab. viii. } Soemmering, Voui Baue des Menschlichon Kor| crs, Bd. iii.