756 NUTRITION. are less abnormal, vary less from these struc- tures, and more resemble either hypertrophy or euplastic deposits ; and they do mischief rather from their size and situation than from their intrinsic nature. Where the mode of growth is more peculiar, and more independent of that of the textures in which they arise, the resulting tumours are more abnormal in their nature and mode of developement; they approach in character to malignant diseases, acting inju- riously, not only by their bulk and position, but also by abstracting the nourishment of the body, and tending to supersede the natural structures."* Among the malignant growths, too, there are various shades or degrees of malignancy ; one or more of the characters just now assigned to them being either absent or imperfectly de- veloped. Thus there are certain growths which have a tendency to spread through the system, and even to propagate themselves from one individual to another, and which agree with true malignant growths in being composed, like them, of cells having a tendency to rapid multiplication, but which yet exert no serious influence upon the general constitutional state, and which cannot, therefore, be properly termed malignant: such are molluscum and porrigo favosa. And in other instances we meet with large tumours, producing a very injurious effect upon the surrounding textures, and exerting a very serious influence upon the system at large; the malignancy of which, however, is doubtful, because they show no tendency to reappear in other parts of the body. The origin of all these growths is involved in great obscurity; but there does not appear to the writer to be any- thing so specific in their character as to require the supposition that their germs are introduced into the body from without. It is true that when they have once established themselves they may be propagated by inoculation, which transplants some of the cells or cell-germs into a new locality; and the appearance of the dis- ease in parts of the same body distant from those which were first affected, is probably due to the diffusion of the germs by the current of the circulation. But this power of reproduc- tion is by no means limited to malignant growths, since it belongs to all cells at a cer- tain stage of their developement. And, as Dr. W. Budd f has remarked, the causes which have been supposed to induce cancer are not such as can, in any intelligible way, favour the introduction of germs from without the body. Thus in chimney-sweeps and others the conti- nued application of soot has been observed to be followed by the occurrence of cancer in the scrotum in such a number of cases, as to justify the inference that it has been the exciting cause; and the often-repeated contact of a tobacco-pipe with the lip has also been considered a cause of cancer of that part. But neither of these causes can in any conceivable way promote the developement of cancer from extrinsic germs. We are quite in the dark, however, as to the * Williams's Principles of Medicine, § 574. t Lancet, May 28, 1842. mode in which any perversion of the ordinary nutritive processes arising from external irrita- tion of whatever kind, can give rise to struc- tures so peculiar in their nature and history as are the various forms of cancerous growths. For a detailed account of their characters as unveiled by recent microscopic researches, the reader must seek elsewhere ; since all that we can here attempt is to give a general idea of their peculiar nature. (See Products, Morbid.) The greater part of every true malignant growth is made up of cells, which, instead of under- going transformation into other kinds of tissue, continue in their original state, and enjoy the power of rapid multiplication. In the harder forms of cancer the masses of cells are traversed by bands of solid fibrous texture, and such are of slow growth, and may remain with but little change for many years, apparently because the pressure to which they are subjected prevents their rapid increase. But the softer forms are composed almost entirely of cells, and these of the most rapidly multiplying character; so that, in the rapidity with which they shoot up, they remind us of the vegetable fungi. Now the influence of either of these forms of morbid growth upon the constitution is very decided, and distinguishes them from non-malignant structures ; but this is more evident, the more time is afforded for the manifestation of their effects. It is evident even from the appearance of the subject of them that the blood must be in a very depraved state, for there is a peculiar dirty sallowness about the complexion which is seen in no other disease; the emaciation reaches a point unequalled under any other circumstances; and accidental injuries which may occur during the progress of the malady are but very imperfectly repaired. In their de- leterious effects upon the character of the circu- lating fluid, therefore, we may not improperly compare cancer-cells with pus-globules. General summary.—From what has been stated it appears evident, that the process of nutrition essentially consists in the growth of the individual cells composing the fabric; and that these derive their support from the organic compounds with which they are supplied by the blood, just as the cells composing the sim- plest plants derive theirs from the inorganic elements which surround them. And as diffe- rent species of the latter select and combine these in such modes and proportions as to give rise to organisms of very diversified forms and properties, so is it easily intelligible that the different parts of the fabric of the highest ani- mals, whether normal or abnormal, should exercise a similar selective power, in regard to the materials with which the blood supplies them. The structure composing every separate portion of the body has what may be termed a special or elective affinity for some particular constituents of the blood; causing it to abstract from that fluid and to convert into its own substance certain of its elements: and this is exercised not only in regard to the normal con- stituents of the blood, but also towards morbid matters which may be circulating with it. Of the causes which enable the cells of animal or