ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 816 long tube filled with chloride of calcium; and this drying apparatus is fitted by a sound cork to the retort tube. This latter is laid in a shal- low trough open at one end, which is slightly elevated; the trough is then filled with sand heated to about 212° F., and cautious exhaus- tion is performed by the syringe, taking care that none of the charge is carried out of the tube by the current of air; on gradually open- ing the stop-cock air is slowly re-admitted, being dried in its passage over the chloride of calcium ; it is allowed to remain in the appa- ratus a few seconds, and the exhaustion re- peated ; these operations are performed in suc- cession ten or twelve times. It is, however, rarely necessary to resort to this process of desiccation, and it is objectionable from the ease with which many compounds rich in hy- drogen decompose the oxide of copper at com- paratively low temperatures. The drying tube having been accurately weighed is next fitted to the dried perforated cork, and connected by it air-tight to the retort tube; this is now placed in the furnace, which has been disposed in a convenient place rest- ing on bricks; to the drying tube the potash apparatus, also previously weighed, is attached by a connecting piece of caoutchouc, taking care that the largest bulb is on the arm con- nected with the drying tube ; the potash ap- paratus should be slightly inclined by placing a cork under the end of the horizontal portion nearest the open extremity. Matters being thus arranged, we proceed to ascertain if the whole be tight, and for this purpose expand the air in the large bulb by heat, so as to ex- pel a few bubbles; if, on cooling, the liquid rise in the limb and maintain its elevation steadily for a few minutes, the combustion may safely be begun. Charcoal broken into pieces about the size of a walnut is ignited in a cru- cible furnace or by any other convenient means, and when red-hot applied to the por- tion of the tube nearest the cork where the pure oxide of copper lies; the action of the heat is limited by a double sheet-iron screen which fits into the furnace, and has a central slit which allows it to bestride the tube; this screen can by degrees be moved further and further down the furnace until the whole tube is heated. An additional screen of single iron plate is hung over the closed end of the fur- nace to protect the cork, which usually should reach to within an inch of the fire, care being taken that the heat never rises so high as to scorch it, or falls so low as to allow of the condensation of moisture in the portion of the retort which projects from the furnace. When the first part of the retort is red-hot and the escape of air from expansion has ceased, about an inch more of it may be heated, and so the fire gradually carried down; about three bubbles of air may pass in two seconds, it is better not to attempt a more rapid disengagement. At first but a small portion of the gas is absorbed, but when the substance is fairly undergoing decomposition, and the atmospheric air in the apparatus has been expelled, it is almost entirely taken up by the potash-ley. When the whole tube is ig- nited the heat must be continued till bubbles are no longer disengaged ; the potash-ley will now gradually recede into the large bulb; when this is observed to commence, the char- coal must be removed from the tail of the tube; and as soon as the potash has risen to fill half the large bulb, the tip of the tail must be nipped off, and over the opened extremity a tube about eighteen inches long, and one quarter in diameter, should be supported; gentle suc- tion is then effected by a sucking tube (fig. 430, D) fitted to the free extremity of the potash apparatus, drawing air through the combustion tube to displace the carbonic acid and aqueous vapour it contains. The use of the long tube over the end of the retort is to supply pure air, and to prevent that from the furnace charged with carbonic acid from passing freely into the apparatus: the actual process of combus- tion performed in the manner above described usually occupies from an hour to an hour and a half. The plan of drawing air through the tube is that practised by Liebig, and it admits of con- siderable accuracy. Dumas, however, con- nects the extremity of the retort with a drying tube, and this again with a receiver containing oxygen, which gas is carefully driven over the contents of the tube. This renders the ope- ration somewhat more complicated, but it is unquestionably more exact, especially in com- pounds where the proportion of carbon is great. The tube for supplying oxygen is easily ad- justed to the retort by drawing out the tail horizontally instead of obliquely, and fitting it on by a caoutchouc connector, care being taken to screen the junction from the influence of heat. The apparatus is now dismounted, and the whole allowed to cool; in about an hour the drying tube may be weighed, and the increase of weight carefully noted ; one-ninth of the gain indicates the quantity of hydrogen the substance contained; the potash apparatus is also weighed, and three-elevenths of what it has gained shews the quantity of carbon. The deficiency is oxygen. The oxide of copper used in these expe- riments may again be rendered serviceable by moistening it with nitric acid, and igniting as before. 2. Analysis of a liquid not containing ni- trogen. If the fluid be volatile, we take a piece of tube rather less than a quarter of an inch dia- meter, heat it in the blowpipe flame, and draw on it a capillary portion about four inches long; about a quarter of an inch below this the tube is sealed ; the little piece of tube thus left connected with the capillary part is heated and blown into a small bulb about as big as a good-sized pea; this is cut off, leaving a ca- pillary neck of about two inches long. Having made a sufficient number of these little bulbs, we take two of them, which we have ascer- tained will freely enter the combustion-tube, and weigh them accurately; a little of the liquid to be analysed is put into a small tube, and the