PAR VAGUM. 899 duced evidence to shew that these morbid changes do not necessarily follow the division of both vagi in all animals, and that the dog in a few rare cases may either die of inanition from the arrested secretion of the gastric juice and without any morbid alterations in the lungs, or may even survive the operation and recover from its effect. Magendie, Wilson Philip,* Mr. Swan,f and Longet,J found that section of one vagus in- duced diseased action in the lung of the same side. The lesions observed by these experi- menters differed very considerably in their character. Dupuytren,§ on the other hand, could discover no alteration in the lung of the side on which the vagus had been divided in two dogs and a horse, though these animals were allowed to live more than a month. In an experiment made by Magendie before his pupils, the results were completely at variance with his former expressed opinions. The right lung of a dog was found perfectly healthy, though a portion of the vagus of that side was removed six months before. || We have re- moved a portion of one vagus in seventeen animals, and allowed them to live a longer or shorter period,-—from twenty-four hours to six months,-—and in 'none of these could we detect any morbid changes in the lungs which we could attribute to the injury of the nerve. This immunity of the lung from the usual morbid changes, when one nerve only was divided, we attribute to the smaller diminution of the respiratory muscular movements, than when both nerves are divided. Functions of the gastric tranches. Do the gastric branches of the vagus contain some motiferous filaments1.-—Mr. Mayo%. and Miiller** failed in exciting muscular contrac- tions in the stomach by irritating the trunks of the vagi, while this experiment succeeded in the hands of Bichat,ff Tiedemann and Gmelin,\\ and Longet.§§ Breschet and Milne Edwards |||| inferred that muscular movementscan be excited in the stomach of a living animal by galvanizing the lower end of the divided vagi in the neck from its effects upon the digestive process. We have carefully and repeatedly performed the ex- periment of irritating the vagi, and are confident that though it occasionally fails, yet it often suc- ceeds.^! % These muscular movements in thesto- mach differ considerably from those in the oeso- phagus. They are more slow and are vermicular. * Experimental Inquiry, &c. p. 145. t Essay on the Connection of the Heart and the Functions of the Nervous System, &c. | Opus cit. p. 351. 5 Biblioth. Med., 1807, t. xvii., p. 21., as quoted by Longet. || Lecons sur les Phenomenes Physiques de la vie, torn, i., p. 203-4. f Anatomical and Physiological Commentaries, No. 2, p. 15. ** Elements of Physiology. tt Anatom. Generate, torn, iii., p. 360. Paris, 1812. Recher. Experim. Physiol, et Chem. sur la Digestion, p. 374. Opus cit., p. 322. \\\\ Archiv. Gen. de Med., tome vii. Opus cit. They generally commence at the cardiac orifice and proceed to a greater or less extent towards the pyloric orifice. Longet thinks that he can explain this discrepancy in the results of this experiment, as he found that it succeeded when the stomach was engaged in the process of chymification, and failed when it was empty. Though we are satisfied that the gastric branches of the vagus contain some motor filaments, yet we do not believe with Breschet and Milne Edwards, Brachet, Longet, and others, that the muscular movments of the stomach depend entirely upon the integrity of the vagi. Ma- gendie* observed these muscular movements continue after section of the vagi; and we ascer- tained from experiment that if a dog recovers from the first effects of the operation of cutting the vagi, the stomach can still propel the chyme onwards into the duodenum. Arnold,-)" from his experiments upon hens and pigeons, con- cludes that the contractions of the stomach are less influenced than those of the oesophagus and crop by division of the vagi. The grains taken into the stomach after this operation were found, however, to be considerably less bruised than in sound animals. Effects of lesion of the vagi upon the sensa- tions of hunger and satiety.—Though the sensa- tion of hunger is referred to the stomach, yet it is evident from well established facts that this sensation is actually situated in the encephalic portion of the nervous system. This sensation is not dependent, as far as we know, upon any physical condition of the stomach itself, and in all probability arises from certain organic changes in the body, connected with the want of additional supplies of nutritious matters from without. Brachet relates two experiments to show that the sensations of hunger and satiety are arrested by section of the vagi,} but these are liable to certain sources of fallacy against which proper precautions were not taken. Four of seventeen dogs we experimented on, lived beyond the fifth day after the division of the vagi, and exhibited no signs of having lost the sensation of hunger; on the other hand their actions indicated that they still retained this sensation. Longet has from his experi- ments arrived at conclusions on this point similar to ours.§ There can be no doubt that the sensation of hunger is almost always sus- pended for a longer or shorter time after the division of the vagi, probably occasioned in some measure by the pain and terror attending the operation, but if the animal live for a few days the sensation of hunger may return. Though the facts from which Brachet has arrived at the conclusion that the sensation of satiety is annihilated by the division of the vagi, do not, as we have elsewhere shown,|| warrant this inference, yet it is probable for reasons which will occur to every one in reflecting * Compendium of Physiology. Translated by Milligan, 4th edit., p. 261. t Uemerkungen iiher den Ban des Hirns und Rlickenmarlis, &c, S. 145. % Systerhe Nerveux Ganglionaire Expt. 52-3. <j Opus cit., torn, ii., p. 329. -1| Opus cit.