MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 487 Fig. 273. A portion of a tubule of the human kidney, magnified 300 diameters. At a, the basement membrane and epithelium are both seen in a natural state. At b, the base- ment membrane has been sepa- rated, and the epithelium is some- what swollen, and its outline ' woolly.' At e, the epithelium has been detached and the base- ment membrane is seen somewhat wrinkled : d, a detached epithe- lial particle seen in face ; its minutely mottled texture is not <■' represented in the wood-cut. f| V most probably the early condition of the new or advancing series of these particles. Its thickness in the kidney certainly does not ex- ceed the jjjjgjth of an English inch. I have dis- covered, that in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, which are the dilated extremities of the unniferous ducts, with an enclosed tuft of arterial capillaries, the basement membrane is often, to some extent, naturally bare, i.e. without a covering of epithelium. This is the only situa- tion of the body in which such an arrangement is known. In the testis, the same membrane may be shewn without difficulty to be that which gives to its secreting tubules their peculiar strength; and here, as might be expected, it is somewhat modified. The difference is principally as regards its thickness, which here reaches i^^th of an English inch, and in some animals appear to form an integrant part of the wall of the canal. F>«. 275. Fig. 274. A portion of a tubide of the testis (Guinea-pit], Co- baya), magnified 300 diameters. a a, basement membrane; a', corpuscle in its sub- stance ; b b, epithelium in situ, consisting of par- ticles of different dimensions, with minute gra- nules in their interstices ; c, cavity of the tubule full of detached epithelium particles, of various size and appearance, and mingled with nume- rous seminal animalcules ', d, one of these semi- nal animalcules. even exceeds that amount, its essential charac- ters, however, remaining the same. In the larger tubes, emerging from the gland, this tunic becomes gradually invested by a delicate fibrous layer, by which the vascular network is attached to it, and which at first sight may Terminal vesicles of the pancreas of the dog, magnified 300 diameters. The basement membrane is seen at a a a, where the epithelium has been a little detached. In the salivary and all the allied glands, the basement membrane admits of being easily demonstrated. A very thin slice of the fresh organ should be torn by needles, gently washed, and inspected under a high power. The termi- nal vesicles of the duct will then be brought into view and their outline seen to be perfectly sharp and linear (fie. 275, a a a). In parts where the epithelium which they contain has been loosened, the basement membrane will be left in relief. It is of extreme delicacy ; and, as in all other situations, its capillary plexus (when well filled with coloured materia!) may be seen ramifying, not in its substance (for its tenuity renders such a disposition impossible), but on its parenchymal surface. I have sought in vain for the basement mem- brane in the lobules of the liver, and I am in- clined to think that it does not exist in this gland, except in the excretory part of the bile ducts. In the air-cells of the lungs the basement membrane assumes a most interesting and re- markable developement, for it constitutes almost the entire thickness of their walls, the epithe- lium being of extreme delicacy. It appears to be here strengthened by interlacing arches of elastic fibrous tissue, but to be itself transpa- rent and homogeneous, as elsewhere. It is on its parenchymal surface that the close vascular web is spread out. (See Ptjlmo.) But this membrane may be also detected in every part of the alimentary tube, which is more characteristically mucous, in that, viz. in- tervening between the cardia and the lower ex- tremity of the canal. Here it deserves an attentive study on account of the apparent com- plexity of its foldings, and because its exist- ence here offers the most unequivocal proof which we possess, of the anatomical identity of the true glands with the membranes usually called mucous. As it is more delicate in this part than any other, and difficult of detection by reason of the enormous preponderance of its epithelial investment, I shall describe the man- ner in which it may be best observed. The specimen should be as fresh and healthy as possible, or should have been immersed in