783 ORBIT. on the inner side a depression for the insertion of a pulley, through which runs the tendon of the superior oblique muscle. The inferior wall or Jioor is less extensive than the roof, and is directed upwards, out- wards, and forwards. It is formed chiefly by the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, in front of this by the orbital process of the malar, and at the posterior part to a slight ex- tent by the orbital process of the palate bone. It presents a suture marking the union of the malar with the maxillary, and of the maxillary with the palate bone; about the middle of the floor is the infra-orbital groove, which passes forwards and becomes the infra-orbital canal. The external wall is directed inwards, for- wards, and slightly upwards; it is formed in front by the orbital process of the malar, and posteriorly by the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid. It presents a vertical suture at the junction of the malar with the sphenoid bone, and the orifices of some small canals which open externally in the temporal fossa, and on the facial surface of the malar bone; some of these canals transmit filaments of nerves from the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic, and from the superior maxillary nerve. The internal wall is directed outwards, and slightly forwards and upwards: it is formed chiefly, by the os planum of the ethmoid, in front of this by the lachrymal, and behind by the side of the body of the sphenoid. It pre- sents a vertical suture between the lachrymal bone and the ethmoid, and another between the latter bone and the sphenoid ; and anteriorly a vertical groove which lodges the lachrymal sac. Angles.—The superior and external angle formed by the junction of the superior with the external wall presents posteriorly the sphe- noidal fissure, sometimes called foramen lace- rum anterius; in front of this a horizontal suture at the junction of the orbital plate of the sphenoid with the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and anterior to this the junction of the malar with the frontal bone. The superior and internal angle formed by the meeting of the superior and internal walls presents a suture between the os planum of the ethmoid and the orbital plate of the frontal; in this suture are two small holes, the anterior and posterior internal orbital holes; the ante- rior transmits the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic nerve, and the anterior ethmoidal artery ; the posterior gives passage to the posterior ethmoidal artery; in fiont of the last-mentioned suture is another between the lachrymal and frontal bones. The inferior and external angle, formed by the meeting of the inferior and external walls, presents posteriorly the spheno-maxillary fis- sure, which is bounded externally by the orbital plate of the sphenoid, internally by the orbital plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and in front usually by the orbital pro- cess of the malar bone, but occasionally by the junction of the orbital plates of the superior maxillary and sphenoid bones at this point. The inferior and internal angle formed by the meeting of the inferior and internal walls presents a continuous horizontal suture, which in front connects the maxillary bone with the lachrymal, behind this the maxillary with the ethmoid, and still more posteriorly the palate bone with the ethmoid. The base or circumference is of an irregular quadrilateral form with curved sides and rounded angles; it inclines obliquely from within outwards. It is formed above by the supra-orbital arch of the frontal bone, on the outer side by the external angular process of the frontal and by part of the orbital border of the malar; below by the continuation of the orbital border of the malar, and by the corres- ponding orbital border of the superior maxillary bone ; on the inner side it is completed by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone. At the junction of the middle with the inner third of the supra-orbital arch is the supra-orbital notch or foramen, which transmits the frontai nerve and vessels. There are three sutures in the margin of the orbit, one between the fron- tal and malar, a second between the frontai and superior maxillary, and a third between the malar and superior maxillary bones. At the junction of the lower with the inner border of the orbit is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle, which is sometimes pointed out as a guide in the operation for fistula lachrymalis, but it is seldom very prominent even in the bare bone, and it could scarcely be detected through the tumefaction consequent on ob- struction of the lachrymal duct. The lachry- mal groove is immediately behind the internal margin of the orbit. In the apex of the orbit is the optic foramen situated between the two roots of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone; the direction of the optic hole is backwards and inwards to- wards the centre of the sella Turcica. The in- ferior root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, which separates the optic hole from the sphe- noidal fissure, presents anteriorly a small tuber- cle which gives origin to the common tendon of the internal, external, and inferior recti muscles. Dissection of the orbit.—Having removed the skull-cap and brain, the roof of the orbit may be taken away by two vertical cuts with a saw, the inner cut extending from a point just external to the internal angular process, backwards along the roof to the optic foramen, the outer cut extending from a point just in- ternal to the external angular process, also back- wards to the optic foramen. In making these cuts care must be taken to avoid injuring in front on the inner side the pulley and tendon of the superior oblique muscle, on the outer side the lachrymal gland with its vessels and nerves, and posteriorly the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery passing through the optic hole. Having removed the bony part of the roof the periosteum is exposed, and must be examined before proceeding farther. The periosteum of the orbit appears to be a continuation of the dura mater; it passes in through the optic hole, and through the sphe-