MARSUPIAL1A. 274 ferous remains hitherto discovered in the se- condary formations, will justify the minuteness, perhaps tediousness, with which I have dwelt on characters that, inclusive of the teeth, serve to distinguish the cranium of the Marsupial from that of any Placental quadruped. The structure of the bony palate in the Marsupials is interesting in other respects. Since the de- fective condition of this part of the cranium is one of the characteristics of the skull of the Bird, it might be expected that some approx- imation would be made to that structure in the animals which form the transition between the Placental and Oviparous Classes. We have already noticed the large vacuities which occur in the bony palate of nearly all the Marsupials ; but this imperfectly ossified condition is most remarkable in the great Perameles lagotis and Acrobulcs. In the former (fig. 96) the bony Fig. 96. Perameles lagotis. roof of the mouth is perforated by a wide oval space extending from the second pre- molars to the penultimate molars, exposing to view the vomer and the convolutions of the inferior spongy bones in the nasal cavity. Be- hind this space there are six small perforations, two in a transverse line midway between the great vacancy and the posterior margin of the bony palate, and four in a transverse line close to that margin. In Acrobutes a still larger pro- portion of the posterior part of the palate is formed by membrane. Cavity of- the cranium.—The pariefes of the cranial cavity are remarkable for their thickness in some of the Marsupial genera. In the Wombat the two tables of the parietal bones are separated posteriorly for the extent of more than half an inch, the insterspace being filled with a coarse cellular diploe ; the frontal bones are about two and a half lines thick. In the Ursine Dasyure the cranial bones have a si- milar texture and relative thickness. In the Koala the texture of the cranial bones is denser, and their thickness varies from two lines to half a line. In the Kangaroo the thickness varies considerably in different parts of the skull, but the parietes are generally so thin as to be dia- phanous, which is the case with the smaller Marsupials, as the Potoroos and Petaurists. The union of the body of the second with that of the third cranial vertebra takes place in the marsupial as in the placental Mammalia at the sella turcica, which is overarched by the back- ward extension of the lesser alae of the sphenoid. The optic foramina and the fissurae lacerae anteriores are all blended together, so that a wide opening leads outwards from each side of the sella. Immediately posterior and externaf to this opening are the foramina rotunda, from each of which in the Kangaroo a remarkable groove leads to the fossa Gasseriana at the com- mencement of the foramen ovale; the same groove is indicated in a slight degree in the Dasyures and Phalangers, but is almost ob- solete in the Wombat and Koala. The carotid canals pierce the body of the sphenoid, as'in Birds, and terminate in the skull very close together behind the sella turcica, which is not bounded by a posterior clinoid process. The sphenoidal bulla, which forms the chief part of the tympanic cavity in the Perameles lagotis, forms a large convex protuberance on each side of the floor of the cranial cavity in that species. The petrous bone in the Kangaroo, Koala, and Phalangers is impressed above the meatus auditorius by a deep, smooth, round pit, which lodges the lateral appendage of the cerebellum. The corresponding pit is shallower in the Da- syuri, and is almost obsolete in the Wombat. The middle and posterior fissurae laceraa have the usual relative position, but the latter are small. The condyles are each perforated ante- riorly by two foramina in most of the Mar- supials, the Thylacinus forming the exception. Of the composition and form of the foramen magnum we have already spoken: it is of great size in relation to the capacity of the cranium ; the aspect of its plane is backward and slightly downwards. In the Kangaroo and Phalan<j,er a thin ridge of bone extends for the distance of one or two lines into the periphery of the tentorial process of the dura mater, and two sharp spines are sent down into it from the upper part of the cranium in the Phalungista vulpina. The ten- torium is supported by a thick ridge of bone in the Thylacine; but it is not completely ossified in any of the Marsupials : in some species, indeed, as the Dasyures, the Koala, and the Wombat, the bony crista above de- scribed does not exist. There is no ossification