NERVOUS SVSTEM. 654 1 (Nervous Centres. and the grey matter, and remarkable varieties as regards the shape of the lateral portions of the latter. The relative proportion of the grey matter to the white appears to be much greater in the lumbar than in the cervical or dorsal regions. In the upper part of the cord the crescentic portions are narrow, and the white matter is abundant. The posterior horn ap- pears as a thin lamella extending back to the surface, while the anterior is a small, roundish, slightly stellate mass, remote from the surface of the anterior columns. In the dorsal region the grey matter is at its minimum of develope- ment: here it appears much contracted and diminished in size, although presenting the same general form as that in the region of the neck. In the lumbar region both horns acquire a manifest increase of thickness, the posterior still extending back quite to the surface, and the anterior, more stellate than in the higher parts of the cord, separated from the corre- sponding surface of the cord by a much smaller quantity of white substance. At a still lower part of the cord, where the lumbar swelling begins to diminish in size, the pos- terior horn is short and thick, and some- times seems not to reach quite back to the surface of the cord,—an appearance, however, which might be produced by some accidental obliquity of the section; and its posterior extremity has somewhat of the form of a hook, its hindermost portion being directed a little forwards and inwards, forming a very sharp angle with the rest of the grey sub- stance which constitutes the horn. At the lowest part of the cord the crescentic form of the lateral portions of grey matter ceases, and the transverse section of it presents the form of a solid cylinder slightly notched on each side, and surrounded completely by the white sub- stance. ( Fig. 377.) There are also differences deserving of notice as regards the white substance in the different regions of the cord. The largest quantity of white substance is found in the cervical en- largement, as may be shown on a transverse section. Both the anterolateral and the pos- terior columns are )ar°e, but by far the greatest proportion of the mass of white substance must be assigned to the antero-lateral columns. It is also important to remark that the quantity of white substance which is placed between the posterior horns in a great part of the cervical region is augmented by the existence of two small columns of white matter, which will be more particularly described when we come to speak of the medulla oblongata. These columns extend from the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle, very nearly as far down as the termination of the cervical enlarge- ment, where they gradually taper to a fine point and disappear, allowing the posterior columns of the cord to come into apposition along the posterior fissure. These small co- lumns, the posterior pyramids of some authors, do not appear to be completely isolated from the proper posterior columns of the cord. There is generally a very clear line of demarcation between them, visible on the posterior surface, The. Spinal Cord.) Fig. 377. by a distinct depression or fissure which passes in the length of the cord; but this fissure does not extend much deeper than the sur- face, nor does any distinct process of pia mater sink into it. Nevertheless, in the spinal cord, which has been hardened in alcohol or by any other chemical reagent, these columns will readily separate by tearing in the longitudinal direc- tion, both from each other and from the posterior columns between which they are placed. They occupy rather less than one-half of the interval be- tween the posterior roots of the nerves, excepting at their lowest part, where, from their tapering form, they obviously take up much less space. In the dorsal region both white and grey mat- ter are small in quantity ; the posterior columns, how- ever, do not appear to ex- perience a diminution in size at all commensurate C A with the general shrinking | of the organ in this region, I p nor with the reduced size 5<( a of the antero-lateral co- | (p) lumns. V In the lumbar region L © the antero-lateral columns Transverse sections of are small; the grey matter the spinal cord. ls large [n quantity, and (After Arnold.) the posterior columns ap- 1, cervical region at r . . . r the upper part of Pear t0 retain tlleir Size: the swelling. they are, indeed, propor- 2, the same at the tionally to the other parts largest part of the 0f the cord, larger in this swelling. tjlan jn (.jjg cervjcai region, o, dorsal region. , ., , , ii- 4, lumbar region. and the lurabar swelling 5, pointed extremity, appears to depend much A, anterior surface, more upon the large size P, posterior surface. 0f the grey matter and of the posterior columns than upon the bulk of the antero-lateral ones. At the lowest point of the cord the white matter has gradually disap- peared, and in the commencement of the ter- minal filiform process grey matter only is pre- sent, according to Remak and Valentin. These facts lead to some interesting physio- logical conclusions bearing upon the function of the cord as well as of its columns. It is in the upper extremities that voluntary power and sensibility are in their most highly deve- loped state, and accordingly the size of that portion of the cord from which the nerves of these parts emanate is greater than any other portion of the cord. Were the sensibility de- pendent on the grey matter or upon the pos- terior columnSj as has been conjectured, it