648 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres Grey Nervous Matteu.) It is in vain, in the present state of our knowledge, to speculate upon the use of these caudate processes. Do they constitute a bond of union between the nerve-vesicles and certain nerve-tubes? or are they commissural fibres serving to connect the grey substance of different portions of the nervous centres ? Until a more extended research has made us better acquainted with the peculiarities of these vesicles in various localities, it would be premature to offer any conjecture concerning their precise relation to the other elements of the nervous centres. They exist, with different degrees of developement, in the locus niger of the cms cerebri, in the laminae of the cerebellum, in the grey matter of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, and in the ganglions, and in the grey substance of the cerebral convolutions, in which latter situa- tion they are generally of small size. When a portion of grey matter from a con- volution of the brain is examined with a high power in the microscope, we observe it to con- sist chiefly of a mass of granular matter, in which nerve-vesicles are imbedded with consi- derable intervals between them. Henle states, with much truth, that the superficial part of the grey matter of the convolutions seems almost entirely composed of finely granular substance, in which lie, scattered here and there, several clear vesicles which, as he remarks, look almost like openings (fig. 372). In the middle por- tion the vesicles appear larger, and the gra- nular matter becomes less abundant, and on the most deep-seated plane the nerve-vesicles are much increased in size and lie in closer juxtaposition, being, however, covered by a thin layer of granular matter, which forms a sheath to each vesicle. Nerve-tubes are found throughout the whole depth of the grey matter. Those in the most superficial layer are ex- tremely fine and varicose, and seem to corre- spond in number and situation to the vesicles. For wherever there is a nerve-vesicle, we find an extremely fine varicose nerve-tube apparently adherent to it. Fig. 372. Grey substance from the surface of the cerebral hemi- sphere of a full-grown rabbit treated with dilute acetic acid. ( After Henle.) a, nerve-vesicle; b, a similar one with two nu- clei ; c, another viewed along its edge ; d, vesicles indistinctly apparent; e, granular matter. In the grey matter of the ganglions we find that the vesicles are also deposited in granular matter, which surrounds each of them as a sheath (fig. 371, f,g), completely investing it on every side, and separating it from the neigh- bouring ones. Here, however, the sheath is formed not only of a finely granular matter, but also of numerous bodies which resemble nuclei or cytoblasts, and this sheath invests both the globular variety of nerve-vesicles and the cau- date ones. Nerve-tubes lie in immediate con- nexion with these vesicles, and sometimes en- twine themselves around them, and seem to indent their sheaths (fig. 375.) Other vesicles, much more simple in form, are found in the grey matter in certain situations. The outer layer of the optic thalamus, accord- ing to Henle, contains only small homoge- neous globules, analogous to the nuclei of the ganglionic globules, in immediate apposition with each other, and towards which the tubes seem to ascend in the vertical direction. Pur- kinje states, that a similar layer is met with in the cortical substance of the brain quite close to the medullary substance.* I find a layer of similar particles in the grey matter of the cerebellic laminae. And, according to the report of Valentin,-)- Purkinje has found the interior of the ventricles in the normal state covered by an oily matter, which consists of distinct, large, transparent globules, free and lying near each other. A similar layer has been found by him in the interior of the fifth ventricle. The cavity of the rhomboidal sinus in Birds likewise contains a gelatinous mass, which consists of large globules lying close to each other. J Developement of grey matter.—In the per- fect nerve-vesicle, the cell form of primitive developement is persistent. We have the nu- cleolus and nucleus (cytoblast) and the cell; and, according to Schwann, the only change which the full-grown cell exhibits consists in an increase of size and in the developement of the pigmentary granules within. The following is Valentin's description of the developement of a nerve-vesicle. In the very young embryos of Mammalia, as the sheep or calf, the cerebral mass in the course of formation contains, in the midst of a liquid and transparent blastema, transparent cells, with a reddish yellow nucleus. The wall of the cells is very thin and simple ; their contents are colourless, transparent, ho- mogeneous, and manifestly liquid; the nucleus, with well-defined contour, is generally round, sometimes central, at other times excentric, solid, and nearly of the same colour as the corpuscles of the blood. Around these primi- tive cells of the central nervous system, which we find likewise formed after the same type in the spinal cord, a finely granular mass becomes deposited, which probably is not at first sur- rounded by an enveloping cell-membrane. At this early period of formation the primitive cell still preserves its first delicacy to such a degree that the action of water causes it to burst, im- mediately. This rupture of its membrane and effusion of its contents often take place so sud- denly and quickly that they can be perceived * Henle, loc cit. f TJber den Verlauf, &c. % See further remarks on the grey matter in the account of the minute structure of the brain and spinal cord in a subsequent part of the article.