PISCES. 996 through a foramen formed by the parietal and interparietal bones, and runs along the whole length of the back on each side of the dorsal fins, receiving in its course filaments from all the spinal nerves, and giving off branches to the muscles and rays of the fins of the back. This branch is superficial up to the point where it plunges beneath the little ex- ternal muscles of the fin-rays, and it sometimes gives off branches which are equally superficial, and that descend to the muscles of the trunk above the pectoral fins, and others which run backwards as far as the anal fin, where they form a longitudinal nerve resembling that of the back. Such is the general arrangement of this remarkable nerve, but it is by no means invariably so: thus, in the Carp it seems to proceed from the eighth pair, and not from the fifth. In the Silurus, on the contrary, it ema- nates from the fifth alone, while in the Perch, Cod, &c. it is derived, as has been described, equally from both these sources. 6. The sixth pair of nerves, or abducens, ( fig. 529, 6) takes its origin, as in other Vertebrata, from the inferior surface of the medulla oblon- gata, and is entirely appropriated to the external rectus muscle of the eye. 7. The seventh pair of nerves (fig. 529, 7) is appropriated, as in other Vertebrata, to the sense of hearing. It arises from the medulla oblongata between the fifth and eighth pairs, and is distributed over the sacculi which con- tain the otolithes and the ampullae connected with the semicircular canals of the ear. It has likewise connections with the last branch of the fifth pair, and one which is especially con- stant with the glosso-pharyngeal division of the eighth pair of nerves. 8. The roots forming the eighth pair (fig. 529, 8), or nervus vagus, are collectively almost as large as the fifth, behind which they take their origin generally by numerous filaments that issue in a single line, that runs longitudinally along the sides of the medulla oblongata be- neath the lobes situated behind the cerebellum, and which unite into a ganglion (fig. 530, t) before its divisions are given off. The distribution of the eighth pair of nerves in Fishes affords a striking example of the con- stancy with which a nerve presides over the same functions in every class of vertebrate animals. The glosso-pharyngeal issues from the cra- nium sometimes through an aperture in the lateral occipital, sometimes through a foramen in the petrous bone, and supplies the first branchia and the parts in its immediate vici- nity, whence it passes forward to the tongue, in which it is ultimately expended. The nervus vagus properly so called leaves the cranium through a special foramen in the lateral occipital bone, and soon dilates into a large ganglion, from which nerves proceed to supply the three last branchiae and the inferior parts of the pharynx. The trunk of the nerve then passes on along the pharynx and oeso- phagus as far as the stomach, which it likewise supplies. This distribution, as will be seen, is similar to what is found to exist in all the vertebrate classes as far as relates to the func- tions over which the nerve presides, although its arrangement is necessarily modified in con- sequence of the changed position of the respi- ratory organs. The eighth pair of nerves gives off one important branch, and sometimes two, the relations of which with what is met with in the superior classes are not so apparent. The first of these is a branch which arises sometimes from the anterior roots of the vagus, and sometimes from the posterior margin of its ganglion, and runs in a straight line as far as the tail. In many Fishes, after having given off a superficial filament which follows the commencement of the lateral line, the trunk of the nerve passes straight backwards im- bedded in the thickness of the lateral mus- cles, between the ribs and their appendices, receiving special filaments from every one of the spinal nerves quite distinct from the inter- costals, and giving off branches to the skin, which pass through all the intervals between the muscular layers. In other cases, as in the Cod-fish represented in the figure, it is super- ficial throughout its whole course, and appa- rently has no communication with the spinal nerves, although perhaps such communications may exist in the shape of very delicate fibrillar. The second remarkable branch is that already described as joining an offset from the fifth to form the dorsal nerve. The eighth pair likewise gives off filaments to the diaphragm or membranous septum which divides the branchial chamber from the abdominal cavity. The last pair of cranial nerves arises behind the eighth pair from the medulla oblongata, and, after giving a branch to the swimming bladder, is distributed to the muscles of the shoulder, and those which pass between the shoulder and the hyoid apparatus ; it also gives branches which anastomose with those of the first spinal nerve, and from the plexus thus formed the nerves proceed which supply the external and anterior muscles of the pectoral fins. The second pair of spinal nerves supply the internal and posterior muscles of the pectoral fins. In the Triglee (Gurnards) these nerves are remarkable for their great size, and on ac- count of the large branches that they give off to the free rays situated in front of the pectorals. They arise from the sides of the last of the five pairs of post-cerebellic lobes, which in this race of Fishes are so remarkable. In Fishes which have their pelvis suspended to the bones of the shoulder, whether the ven- tral fins appear in front of the pectorals or be- neath them, or behind them, it is from the third and fourth pairs of spinal nerves that the ven- trals receive their supply; the third specially supplying the muscles of the pelvis, to which likewise the fourth give some branches, but the latter is more particularly distributed to the fin- rays. The muscles of this fin likewise derive some filaments from the fifth pair of spinal nerves. In the jugular division of Malacopteryginous Fishes, in which the ventral fins are attached