MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Where mucous membranes are not destined to move on the parts they cover, the areolar tissue beneath them is very scanty. This is the case in the nasal cavities, even in the por- tions furnished with a great substratum of bloodvessels. But where much motion is re- quired, as where a muscular lamina underlies the mucous, and the enclosed cavity is liable to vary in its dimensions, the areolar tissue is co- pious, and very similar in its elements and in the size of its interstices to the ordinary forms. Examples of this are seen in the whole alimen- tary tract. But it is under the cutaneous part of the mu- cous system that this tissue assumes its highest developement. Elsewhere its object is to pro- mote freedom of movement, or to confer elasti- city. Here it answers both these purposes, and in addition gives a great capacity of resistance against external pressure and violence. The former end is attained by the structure called subcutaneous fascia, which is a large quantity of this tissue in its ordinary form. The two latter are effected by that more condensed part to which the term of cutis has been given. This last is the structure to which the submucous areolar tissue of the intestinal canal mainly cor- responds, as may be shown by an examinatioh of the submucous tissue of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus, which holds an intermediate place. To describe its modifications in different situations would be to encroach too much on the province of another article (see Skin), and a lew general remarks must here suffice. The framework of the cutis may be said to consist entirely of a modified form of the areolar tissue. Both elements are enormously deve- loped, but especially the yellow fibrous one. The fibrillae of this are thicker than elsewhere, and branch and inosculate with great freedom, enclosing interstices open on all sides, and giving passage to the wavy bands of the white fibrous element as well as to vessels, nerves, the ducts of the sweat-glands, the sebaceous glands, and the roots of the hairs. These in- terstices are in general very close, but they vary with the size of the parts which occupy them. On the deep surface of the cutis the yellow fibrous element changes gradually into that of the subcutaneous fascia, or that of ordinary areolar tissue. It cannot be doubted that the skm chiefly owes its elasticity and toughness to this remarkable developement of the yellow fibrous element. Topogi'uphiail view of the mucous si/stem in man.—Beferring the reader to the article Skin for a detailed description of that part of the mucous system, and its immediate dependen- cies, I shall now proceed to point out some of the more remarkable varieties of the internal tracts. These tracts have been usually com- prehended under two general divisions, the gastro-pulmonary, and the genito-urinary. The former is continuous with the skin at six points, the two eyelids, the two nostrils, the mouth, and the anus; the latter at a single one, the orifice of the urethra in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. Besides these, there are two smaller tracts, the mammary, each of 496 which is subdivided into several, which open separately on the skin. The description of the gastro-pulmonari/ tract may be commenced at the lips. It covers their inner surface, the cheeks, gums, tongue, and palate, and extends into the labial, buccal, and larger salivary glands, of which it consti- tutes the chief mass. It passes over the arches of the palate, (where its involutions form the tonsils,)and lines the pharynx, Eustachian tubes, and the cavities of the tympana. Penetrating into the nose by the posterior nares, it lines all the passages and chambers of that organ, and advances along the nasal duetto the lachry- mal sac. Thence it may be traced along the canaliculi to the front of the eye, where it takes the name of tunica conjunctiva; covers the posterior surface of the eyelids, a certain por- tion of the sclerotic, and the cornea, and forms the caruncula, the Meibomian and lachrymal glands. In these complicated portions of its course, the membrane shares more or less in the construction of the five organs of special sense, and is the essential seat of two of them, taste and smell. From the pharynx it spreads in two directions; first, into the larynx, trachea, tracheal glands, and bronchial ramifications, until it terminates by forming the air-cells of the lungs; secondly, into the alimentary canal. Here it lines the oesophagus, stomach, and intestinal tube, as far as the anus, and it penetrates along the excreting ducts of the liver and pancreas, into the inmost recesses of those glands, to form their secreting surface. The genito-urinary tract may be traced along the urethra into the bladder, ureters, and pelvis of the kidneys; and thence into the substance of those organs as far as the Malpighian bodies, the extremities of the uriniferous tubules.. In connection with the urethra, processes pass to the glands of Cowper; and, in the male, into the interior of the prostate, the vesicula> seminales, vasa deferentia, and tubules of the testes. In the female, the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes receive a lining from it, which, at the fimbriated extremity of those canals, be- comes continuous with the serous membrane of the abdomen.* The very remarkable differences presented to the eye by different parts of this system have been a source of great difficulty to anatomists, who, on other grounds, believed them to be nearly allied ; and it would appear that hitherto no satisfactory explanation has been given of the anatomical conditions on which this variety depends. This deficiency I shall now endea- vour in some degree to supply. From the ex- aminations I have made, I have been led to consider in a distinct and separate manner the several elementary tissues already mentioned, composing the simple mucous membrane, and * This remarkable exception to a general fact has long attracted attention. As a mere anatomi- cal difficulty, it has lately received curious illustra- tion from He nle's discovery of the existence of an epithelium on serous and other allied surfaces. But its true explanation can probably only be attained by a study of its morphology, joined with that of its final cause.