PISCES. 1003 Fie. 537. Viscera of male Shark. (After Clift.) a, heart; b, liver ; c, oesophagus ; d, stomach ; e, pyloric portion of stomach ; g, pancreas ; h, i, in- testine ; k, testis ; I, vas deferens ; m, urinary blad- der ; o, rudimental penis ; p, p, peritoneal open- ings ; q, q, claspers. troduced into the cloaca of the other sex in the act of impregnation. The following is Cuvier's description of these remarkable organs, which are met with in the males both of the Sharks and Rays and likewise of the Chimaerae, and from the composition and relations of the car- tilages and muscle which enter into their struc- ture are evidently only an extension orappendage of the ventral fins. They consist in the Rays and Skates of two cartilages articulated end to end, situated along the inner side, which forms the basis of the whole apparatus. The first of these cartilages, which is a sort of femur, ar- ticulates with the pelvis, and supports, in con- junction with the second (the tibia), the rays of the ventral fin. A third cartilage unites this fin with the genital portion like a kind of astragalus; this articulates with the longest cartilage of the limb. On the side of the astragalus is an oval car- tilage having a sharp inferior margin, to which may be applied the name of os calcis. The os calcis articulates posteriorly with another principal piece of the limb which may be called the metatarsus. This extends all along the upper and inner border of the limb as far as its extremity, where it forms a sort of digit, to which is attached the tendon of the great abductor muscle. This large piece is formed by the consolidation of three smaller ones, two of which run parallel to each other, so as to constitute a semi-canal, into which opens a duct derived from a large gland here- after to be described. To the metatarsus succeed seven other car- tilages, the shape of which is different in the various species of Chondropterygii, but which obviously represent the phalanges of the abdo- minal limb, which is moved by five strong muscles which may be named respectively the depressor, the elevator, the abductor, the ad- ductor, and the expansor of the fin. It is, however, remarkable that there is no muscular apparatus calculated to approximate these members, and when separated they are brought together again entirely by their own elasticity, a circumstance which militates strongly against their being, as is generally supposed, instru- ments of prehension. In the Sharks the clas- per contains morever a gland of considerable size situated beneath the fin, and extending to the exterior of the base of its genital append- age. Inferiorly, this gland is only covered by the skin, while above it is adherent by the in- tervention of cellular tissue to the rays of the fin. Its duct is a wide canal which opens into the groove formed by the metatarsal cartilages above alluded to, and the fluid which it secretes of a highly viscid character. It is said that in the breeding season the contents of this gland, as well as the parietes of the cavity in which it is situated, are red with blood and appear to be in a remarkable state of turgescence. It is enclosed in a double tunic, one fibrous and the other muscular, by the assistance of the latter of which its contents are evacuated. At the lower extremity of this gland, near its orifice, there is in each clasper a capsule with muscular and cavernous parietes, the cavity of which is traversed by slender tendinous fila- ments. In these sacs Dr. John Davy* has ob- served distinct pulsations, and finding that in the living fish they were filled with blood, con- siders them as accessory hearts destined to assist the circulation of the blood in these appendages to the genital system. The gland itself is of the shape of an olive; a longitudinal sulcus divides it into two por- tions, in each of which a transverse series of very delicate tubes is distinguishable. In the females of the Plagiostome Chon- dropterygii the arrangement of the sexual or- gans conforms in an equally striking manner with the Reptilian type of structure. The * Phil. Trans. 1839.