770 OPTIC NERVES. part of their course. The conclusions arrived at by such modes of investigation were un- satisfactory, and remarkable for much dis- crepancy. 1. Some maintained that the nerves are merely placed in exceedingly close juxta- position in the chiasma, without any inter- crossing of their respective filaments, and that each tractus opticus in reality passes on to form the optic nerve of its own side. These views were supported by Vesalius,* who detailed the particulars of a case in which after death the two optic nerves were found perfectly distinct from each other throughout their whole course, and consequently no chiasma existed, although, during life, vision had been unimpaired; and the same hypothesis was strengthened by Santorini and others, who, in certain instances where one eye had been destroyed many years before death, observed on the post mortem examination the correspond- ing optic nerve atrophied as far back as the chiasma, and the tractus opticus of the same side wasted, while the nerve and tractus of the opposite side were perfectly healthy. 2. Others were persuaded that a perfect de- cussation exists in the chiasma, and that all the filaments of the tractus opticus of one side pass fairly across to form the optic nerve of the other, and vice versa. In favour of this opinion it was urged that in the majority of cases of long- continued blindness of a single eye the opposite tractus opticus, and not the tractus on the same side with the affected eye, becomes atrophied. Soemmerring observed several such cases in the human subject, and traced the same appearances in the horse, dog, squirrel, rabbit, hog, cat, and chamois: and Cuvier preserved in spirits the brain of a horse in which the wasting of one optic nerve continued backwards into the oppo- site tractus. The evident manner in which the optic nerves in osseous fish cross each other (see jig. 407) was also considered favourable to this view, and the results of experiments on living animals were confidently appealed to in farther confirmation of the same. Thus the experiments of Rolando, Pourfour Petit, Saucerotte, Hertwig, Flourens, and others led to the conclusion, that if in the Mammalia one hemisphere of the ce- rebrum be injured deeply or removed, vision becomes impaired or destroyed in the opposite eye; if the two cerebral hemispheres be suc- cessively subjected to the same treatment, vi- sion becomes successively unpaired or destroyed in both eyes; if one of the nates be removed, the animal sees no longer on the opposite side; and if both be removed, blindness affects both eyes in succession and occurs constantly in the eye opposite to the injured tubercle; if in birds one of the cerebral hemispheres be removed, vision becomes extinguished in the opposite eye; if the two hemispheres be removed in succession, a cross paralysis affects the two retina? : if one of the optic tubercles be removed, the sight of the opposite eye fails, and if both be removed, per- J'ect blindness ensues. 3. Another class of physiologists believed * Vesalius de Corp. Hum. Fab., 1. iv. c. iv. that a partial decussation occurs in the human chiasma, and that some of the filaments of each tractus opticus continue on into the nerve of their own side, while others cross obliquely into the optic nerve of the opposite side. Certain facts in pathology seemed difficult of explanation on any other supposition ; thus cases of long-con- tinued blindness of a single eye, the result of accident, have been met with, in which after deatli the corresponding optic nerve was found atrophied as far back as the chiasma (the optic nerve belonging to the healthy eye being of fully its ordinary dimensions, or even larger than natural) while both tractus optici were wasted. That a partial decussation does occur in the human chiasma can now no longer admit of doubt, for of late years the existence of this organization has been proved by actual dis- section, and it can be rendered apparent to the naked eye by the precaution of hardening the nervous substance before the dissection is com- menced. According to the writer's experience immersion in spirit hardens the preparation in the most satisfactory manner. In performing the dissection the neurilemma must be first care- fully removed from the chiasma, and also from the adjoining portions of the optic nerves and tractus optici; after this preliminary, each optic nerve should be divided transversely a little in front of the chiasma ; a transverse incision car- ried horizontally into the cut surface of the cerebral extremity of each nerve will then enable the operator to split it in a direction backwards towards the chiasma, and by pro- ceeding cautiously a horizontal division of the chiasma, and of a part of the optic nerves and the tractus optici, will be effected. (Fig. 419 ) The annexed fi- Fig. 419. gure represents a preparation made in the manner descri- bed, and it is essen- tially similar to a diagram of the hu- man chiasma pub- lished some years since by Mayo; the primitive filaments of the nerves are of course invisible, Human Chiasma. (Fromadis section made by the writer.) a a, optic nerves ; b b, trac- but the direction of tus °PtIC1- the larger fasciculi admits of not the slightest question ; the outer fasciculi of each tractus opticus continue onwards without interruption to form the outer part of the optic nerve of the same side : the middle fasciculi cross the chiasma obliquely, and after decussating the corresponding fasciculi of the other tractus, contribute to the formation of the optic nerve of the opposite side ; and the internal fasciculi cross the posterior part of the chiasma transversely and uniting directly with the corresponding fasciculi of the other tractus seem to be strictly commissural; across the front of the chiasma some fasciculi take an arched course, and being prolonged forwards along the inner edges of the optic nerves they are likewise apparently commissural.