980 PISCES. come elongated by the addition of successively calcified portions of their pulp to their basal or posterior extremities; the opposite end exerts a proportional pressure against the circum- ference of the foramen, and causing its ab- sorption begins to protrude. The tuberculate crown of the denticle is exposed about the time when its sides become anchylosed to those of the previously protruded row. Thus, from the close apposition of the protruding den- ticles, the whole of the outer parietes of their common alveolar cavity subjected to the sti- mulus of their pressure is finally removed, and is replaced by the pavement of mutually an- chylosed teeth (fig. 515, a). In the Diadems and Tetradons the structure of the teeth is equally peculiar, but of a very different character from what has been described above. In the former genus each jaw is fur- nished with a double compound tooth adapted to crush and bruise the food, the structure of which at once reminds the anatomist of the molar teeth of the elephant. Each tooth (fig. 517) consists of numerous laminae super- imposed upon each other, the upper ones being the oldest and most worn, while the lower ones are the largest and most recently formed. In consequence of this arrangement Fig. 517. Section of the lower jaw of the Globe-fish (Diodon J, shewing the structure of its teeth. a, circumference of jaw; b, grinding surface of tooth within the mouth. (After Owen.) the exposed surface of the tooth that projects into the mouth (/»)presents a grooved appearance, being formed of the edges of the contiguous lamellae that are situated towards the upper part of the tooth. As these superior laminae are worn away, it is evident that they are con- tinually replaced by the advancement upwards of the inferior plates, so that the tooth is kept constantly efficient for service. The circum- ference of the jaw (a) is formed of super- imposed plates which grow from below in a precisely similar manner; but between these and the posterior laminated tooth a very diffe- rent structure is interposed, which is revealed by the microscope to consist of a series of narrow flattened denticles lying horizontally and at right angles to the anterior surface of the jaw. These denticles are developed in a cavity between the outer and inner walls of the jaw, the floor of which is formed by a thin cribri- form osseous plate separating the cavity con- taining the teeth from the wide vascular canal which runs in the substance of the jaw. In the Tetradons a somewhat similar structure of the dental organs is met with. The rostral teeth of the Saw-fishes, Pristis, are quite unique among the whole race of Fishes from the singular position which they occupy, as will be perceived by the following account of this strange apparatus extracted from Professor Owen's elaborate treatise. " The maxillary teeth of the Saw-fish, which is an active and predatory Shark, are, notwith- standing its habits, extremely small, simple, obtuse, and wholly inadequate to destroy and secure the prey requisite for its subsistence. But this seemingly imperfect armature of the mouth is compensated for by the develope- ment from the anterior part of the head of a very singular and formidable weapon provided with strong lateral teeth, and which from its resemblance to a saw has given rise to the ver- nacular of ' Saw-fish,' applied to the present species of Shark." In most of the Plagiostomes, but especially in the group of Squaloids, a conical projection or cutwater is continued from the fore-part of the head, and its framework is composed of peculiar and superadded cartilages articulated to the anterior extremities of the frontal, nasal, and vomerine bones. These rostral cartilages in the Saw-fish (Pristis antiquorum) are blended into a horizontally flattened plate, which is produced to a length equalling one- third that of the entire fish: this process is more completely ossified than any other part Fig. 518. Rostrum of Saw-fish (Pristis antiquorum), shewing the marginal teeth.