PISCES. 978 teeth in both jaws would project forwards in- stead of being opposed to one another, and such, in fact, must have been their position were it not that, as in Pimelepterus, the teeth are bent at nearly a right angle with their base. In the 'Scums, and likewise in the mar- ginal teeth of the Diodon, where these organs are straight and attached horizontally to the margin of the jaws, their sides instead of their crowns are actually opposed to each other. In the Cod-fish, Wolf-fish, and some other species, in proportion as the ossification of the tooth advances towards its base and along the connecting ligamentous substance, the subjacent portion of the jaw-bone receives Fig. 512. rtion of the.jaw of Lnphius piscatorins, showing the ligamentous attachment of the teeth, a, a, a, anterior teeth; b,b,b, posterior teeth in their erect position ; c,[one of these teeth laid fiat towards the interior of the mouth, the dotted lines indicating its condition when erect. (After Owen.) a stimulus and developes a process cor- responding in size and form with the so- lidified basis of the tooth. In this case the inequalities of the opposed surfaces of the tooth and maxillary dental process fit into each other, and for some time they are firmly at- tached together by a thin layer of ligamentous substance; but, in general, anchylosis takes place to a greater or less extent before the tooth is shed. The small anterior maxillary teeth of the Angler (Lophius) are thus attached to the jaw, but the large posterior ones remain always moveably connected by highly elastic glisten- ing ligaments, which pass from the inner side of the base of the tooth to the jaw-bone (fig. 512, d). These ligaments do not permit the tooth to be bent outwards beyond the ver- tical position, when the hollow base of the tooth rests upon a circular ridge growing from the alveolar margin of the jaw; but the liga- ments yield to pressure upon the tooth in the contrary direction, and its point may thus be directed towards the back of the mouth; the instant, however, that the pressure is remitted, the tooth flies back, as by the action of a spring, into its former position. The deglu- tition of the prey of this voracious fish is thus facilitated and its escape prevented. The teeth of the Wolf-fish, Anarrhicus, are extremely remarkable. They do not adhere immediately to the jaw or to the palate bone, but are attached to conical or hemispherical osseous epiphyses, which are fixed to these bones by a kind of suture, and are easily detached at certain periods. The base of each of these epiphyses is surrounded with a row of small foramina, doubtless intended for the admission of vessels, and mark the line of separation. On the summit of these cones the true teeth, formed as usual of dentine and enamel, are at- tached, " If," says Professor Owen, in the valuable treatise from which we have extracted the pre- ceding paragraphs, " the engineer would study the model of a dome of unusual strength and so supported as to relieve from its pressure the floor of a vaulted chamber beneath, let him make a vertical section of one of the pharyngeal teeth of the Wrasse (fig. 513). The base of this tooth is slightly contracted and is implanted in a shallow circular cavity, the rounded margin of which is adapted to a circular groove in the contracted part of the base. The margin of the tooth which thus immediately transmits the pressure to the bone is strengthened by an inwardly project- ing convex ridge. The masonry of this inter- nal buttress and of the dome itself is composed of hollow columns, every one of which is placed so as best to resist or to transmit in a due direction the superincumbent pres- sure." The use of this beautiful piece of animal mechanics is to keep the delicate successional pulp which is lodged beneath the vault of the arched tooth, from being injured by pressure during the action of these powerful crushing teeth. Teeth of the Wrasse ( Crenilabrus). Portion of the pharyngeal bone of the Wrasse, a, structure of arched teeth; b, successional teeth ; c, bone. In Rhizodus, a large extinct species of Sauroid fish, the broad base of the tooth is divided into a number of long and slender cylindrical processes, which are implanted like piles in the coarse osseous substance of the jaw. They diverge as they descend, and their extremities bend and subdivide like the roots of a tree and are ultimately lost in the bony tissue. This mode of attachment of a tooth is perhaps the most complicated met with in the animal kingdom. In order to complete our remarks concerning the teeth of Fishes it only remains to notice a few examples in which the dentition is peculiar, namely, in the Cyprinidse, the Scari, the Dio- dons, and the Tetradons.