MONOTREMATA. 391 circumference, and a smaller portion closing the outer angle; the free margin of the valve is attached to the extremity of a large fleshy column, arising by different roots from both the fixed and the free walls of the ventricle; a short fleshy column is attached to the left ex- tremity of the valve; some chordae tendinea? are fixed to the right angle of the valve. The rest of the structure of the heart corresponds with that in the Ornithorhynchus. The aorta (fig. 187, d) bends, as in the Mammalia, over the left bronchus. The pri- mary branches come off from the arch, in both Monotremes, as in Man, viz. arteria in- nominata, left carotid, and left subclavian. The innominata divides, after a course of three lines, into the right subclavian and carotid (fig. 187, i), the latter being the smallest branch. Both subclavians emerge from the thorax above the first rib, and pass between it and the coracoid. The phrenic, coeliac, and mesenteric arteries are given oft' from the abdominal aorta; the renal artery is short, wide, and single; there is no inferior mesenteric artery, but the abdominal aorta terminates by dividing into the two com- mon iliac and the caudal arteries, the arterial system agreeing in this and the other essential characters with the Mammalian type. The crural artery is shown aty, fig. 180. Each of the superior vena; cava receives the azygos vein of its respective side. The inferior cava has a long course in the thorax; it is greatly dilated in the liver in the Ornithorhyn- chus, as it is in the Placental divers, the Otter and Seal for instance.* The veins of the kidney are continued from the renal artery, and communicate solely with the inferior cava. The vena porta? is consti- tuted as in other Mammalia. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. The lungs of the Monotremata are con- fined to the thoracic cavity, and suspended freely in compartments partitioned off' by du- plicatures of the pleura. The right lung is divided, in the Ornithorhynchus, into three lobes, of which the smallest (Jig. 187, n) fills the interspace between the heart and diaphragm : the left lung (o) is undivided. The structure of the whole is spongy, and divided into minute cells. The trachea (fig. 187, m) is wide, as in most aquatic mammals: the cartilaginous rings, fifteen in number, are broad and slightly overlap each other: the bronchial annuli are bony, and are continued of that texture through a great part of the lungs. In the Echidna the trachea is narrower than in the Ornithorhynchus : there are twenty-two tracheal hoops, which are disunited behind ; very firm cartilaginous annuli are continued along the larger branches of the bronchus for some way into the lung, but the smaller branches are membranous. There is no trace of inferior larynx in either * Meckel, 1. c. p. 32. Monotreme. The superior la- Fig. 189. rynx is conformable to the Mam- a malian type, but presents some remarkable modifications in the Ornithorhynchus. The thyroid cartilage (fig. 189, c) in this animal is very broad; its middle part is prominent and acuminate: the lateral ala? are bony,and each of them divides, and sends one of the processes to the posterior Larynx of part of the pharynx (fig. 186, c), Ondthorhyn- where it becomes cartilaginous, chtis. and is confluent with the corres- (Meckel.) ponding process of the opposite side. The cri- coid cartilage (Jig. 189, d) is ossified at its middle anterior part. The arytenoid cartilages, (fig. 189, e, e) present the usual triangular form, and are of large size. The epiglottis (fig. 189, a) is remarkably broad, with an acuminated and notched apex. Besides a small thymus gland, Meckel found in the Ornithorhynchus two other lateral glands on the external part of the chest, extending be- tween the scapula and humerus, covered only by the panniculus carnosus and the trapezius. These presented a reddish colour, a tabulated structure, and pretty firm texture. RENAL SYSTEM. The suprarenal bodies (fig. 190, b, b) are of moderate size, of the usual structure, and have the ordinary situation internal to the anterior extremities of the kidneys. The kidneys {a, a), in both Monotremes, are smple, compact, conglobate glands, situated, as usual, far forwards on the loins, the right a lit- tle in advance of the left. The external surface, after the removal of the capsule, is smooth. The renal tissue consists of the two usual por- tions; the cortical, or softer and more vascular part, being easily distinguishable from the more compact medullary part. The tubuli uriniferi terminate on the concave surface of a small and simple pelvis. The ureter (fig. 190, c, c) takes the usual course to the contracted neck of the bladder, but terminates, in the male, in the urogenital canal, below the vasa deferentia; and, in the female, (fig. 191,/, I,) beyond the uterine orifice, which thus intervenes between the ureter and the orifice of the urinary bladder. In all respects, save the place of termination of the excretory ducts and their relation to the reservoir of the renal secretion, the Mono- tremes adhere closely, in regard to their urinary system, to the Mammalian type. The circum- stances in which they deviate from the higher mammals approximate them closely to the Iteptilia, and especially the Chelonia ; and it is to be observed that the deviation commences where the urinary system begins to be connected with the generative organs, in which the ovipa- rous type of structure is especially manifested. Organs of generation. The male organs in both Monotremes con- sist of a testis, vas deferens, Cowper's glands, and penis : there are neither prostatic glands nor vesicula? seminales.