LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 231 Fig. 58. Superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity. (After Mascaijni. J a, a, Commencing lymphatic vessels wliich ac- company the branches of the cephalic and basilic veins. b, Lymphatic vessels passing from the posterior to the anterior surface ot the forearm over its inner edge, with branches of the basilic vein. d, Lymphatic vessels passing from the posterior to the anterior surface of the forearm over its outer edge, with branches of the cephalic vein. c, Lymphatic vessels passing from the posterior to the anterior surface of the arm over its inner edge. The superficial lymphatics of the upper ex- tremity in their passage to the axillary glands follow more or less the course of the subcuta- neous veins. Those which accompany the ce- phalic and basilic veins commence on the dorsal surface of the fingers, where they com- municate with the digital lymphatics; from thence they proceed over the metacarpus to the posterior surface of the forearm, tending with their accompanying veins towards its ulnar and ra- dial edges, over which, sooner or later, they pass to gain the anterior surface, and at the bend of the elbow they have all collected in the neighbourhood of the internal condyle. The lymphatics accompanying the median vein take origin from the palmar surface of the fingers, where they communicate with the digital lymphatics; they take their course up- wards first on the palm of the hand, then on the anterior surface of the forearm, and at the bend of the elbow join those already traced to the same point. The great majority of these vessels now continue their course upwards over the internal condyle to the inner side of the aim, some of them traversing the little gland or glands situated just above the internal condyle; from thence they take the nearest route to gain the axillary glands, of which they form the principal vasa inferentia. Some three or four of the lymphatics, which in the forearm were associated with the branches of the ce- phalic vein as far as the bend of the elbow, separate themselves from the rest, and ascend with this accompanying vein on the outer side of the biceps, and in the interval between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, where they meet with a gland which they traverse and ultimately pass with the vein over the pectoralis minor muscle to gain the deep-seated lympha- tics accompanying the axillary artery. The axillary glands collect their vasa infe- rentia also from the upper half of the anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces of the trunk. From the anterior surface those on the ab- domen above the umbilicus ascend; those on the upper part of the chest, joined by some from the cervical region, descend; those on a level with the axilla from the pectoral muscles and the glands of the breast take a transverse direction—all in short converging towards the axilla, where the glands in which they termi- nate are situated. From the posterior surface of the trunk in a similar way they concentrate from the lumbar, cervical, and dorsal regions to pass over the posterior border of the axilla to reach the same glands. The vasa efferentia of the axillary glands, four or five only in number, but of large size, receive the lymph conveyed to these glands from the various sources just described; they pass associated with the axillary vessels under the subclavius muscle, unite into one or two branches, which usually pass over the subcla- vian vein, to terminate either separately in this vein, close to its union with the internal jugular, or else join the lymphatic trunks. The lymphatics of the head and face may be divided as in other parts of the body into the superficial and the deep-seated. They all have to pass through the glands situated in the cer- vical region. The superficial accompany prin- cipally the veins of the head and face. Those from the head form two groups : one anterior associated with the temporal veins, descends in front of the ear, joins the small glands situated at the root of the zygoma, and in the substance of the parotid gland; it passes with the temporal vein through that gland and below the angle of the jaw continues to