PISCES. 957 don, Psettus, Pimelepterus, Dipterodon, Brama, Pempheris, Foxotes. 7th Family. — Scomberid;e. Scomber, Xiphias, Centronotus, Rhincobdella, Campi- lodon, Seriola, Nomeus, Temnodon, Caranx, Vomer, Zeus, Stromuteus, Sesurinus, Kurtus, Cori/phana. 8th Family.—T;enioides. Lepidopus, Tri- chiurus, Gymnetrus, Stylephorus, Cepola, Lo- photes. 9th Family.—Theutid;e. Siganus, Acan- thurus, Prionurus, Naseus, Axinurus, Priodon. IQth Family. — With labyrinthiform pharyngeal bones. Anabas, P ulyucanthus, Macropodes, Helostomus, A.sphromenus, Tri- chopodes, Spirobranchus, Ophicephulus. 11th Family.—Mucilid^. Mugil, Tetra- gonurus, Atherina. 12th Family.-—Gobids. Blennius, Anar- rhicus, Gobius, Callionymus, Platypterus, La- brax. 13th Family.—With pectoral fins feet- like. Lophius, Batrachus. 14th Family.—-Labridjl. Labrus, Xirech- thys, Cliromis, Scarus. 15th Family. — With flute-shaped Mouths. Fistularia, Centriscus. All the other osseous Fishes have the rays that support the fins soft and composed of numerous pieces articulated with each other, with the exception, in some cases, of the first ray of the dorsal or of the pectoral. These are divided in accordance with the situation of the ventral fins, which are sometimes placed be- neath the abdomen, sometimes appended to the framework of the shoulder, or, lastly, are alto- gether wanting. Three distinct orders are thus established, viz., Malacopterygii abdomi- nales, Malacopterygii subraghiales, and Malacopterygii apodes. Order II.—MALACOPTERYGII AB- DOMINALES. Having their ventral fins sus- pended beneath the abdomen and behind the pectorals, without any connection with the bones of the shoulder. This order compre- hends most fresh-water Fishes. 16th Family.—Cyprinidje. Cyprinus, Co- bitis, Anableps, Pacilia, Lebias, Fundulus, Mo- linesia, Cyprinodon. nth Family.—Esocjd;e. Esox, Exocetus, Mormyrus. 18th Family.—Silurid*. Silurus, Ma- lapterurus, Aspredo, Loricaria. 19th Family.—Salmonidje. Salmo, Ster- noptyx. 20th Family.—Clufeid;e. Clupea, Odon- tngnathus, Pristigaster, Notopterus, Engraulis, Megalops, Flops, Butirinus, Chirocentrus, Hyodon, Erythrinus, Amia, Sudis, Osteoglos- sum, Lepisosteus, Polypterus. Order III.—MALACOPTERYGII SU- BRAGHIALES. This order is distinguished by the ventral fins being situated beneath the pectoral, the pelvis being suspended immedi- ately from the framework of the shoulder. 21st Family.—Gadid*. Gadus, Lepidole- prus. 22nd Family.—Pleuronectes. Platessa, Hippoglossus, Rhombus, Solea, Monochirus, Achirus. 23rd Family.—Discoboli. Lepadogaster, Cyclopterus, Echeneis. Order IV. — MALACOPTERYGII APODES. Ventral fins totally wanting. 24th Family.—Anguilliformes. Mur&na, Saccopharynx, Gymnotus, Gi/mnarchus, Lep- tocephalus, Ophidium, Ammodytes. Order V.—LOPHOBRANCHII. In all the preceding orders the gills are pectinated, but in the Lophobranchii the respiratory organs consist of little round tufts, disposed in pairs along the branchial arches. 25th Family.—Syngnathid^;. Syngnathusf Pegasus. Order VI.—PLECTOGNATHI. This order of Fishes is distinguished by having the superior maxillary bones consolidated with or firmly united to the intermaxillaries, which latter form the margin of the jaw. The opercula and branchiostegous rays are, moreover, so con- cealed by the thick skin that nothing is visible externally but a small branchial fissure. 26th Family. — Gymnodontes. Diodon, Tetraodon, Orthagoriscus, Triodon. 21th Family.— Sclerodermes. Batistes, Ostracion. Division III.—DERMAPTERYGII. Skeleton cartilaginous or membranous; fins without either cartilaginous or bony rays, or possessing the merest rudiments of them. Order I.—CYCLOSTOMATA. 28th Family.—Petromyzon, Myxine. Order II.—BRANCHIOSTOMATA. 29th Family.—Branchiostoma. As regards the texture of their bones, Fishes may be divided into osseous, fibro-cartilaginous, and true cartilaginous. The cartilaginous, otherwise called Chondrop- terygii, and which by their entire skeleton, by their branchiae, the external border of which is fixed to the skin, and from which the water escapes through narrow and multiplied orifices, as well as by other details in their economy, are distin- guished from other Fishes, have never truebones; their skeleton consists internally of a semi- transparent cartilage, which in Rays and Sharks is coated at its surface only with a layer of opaque and calcareous grains. The Sturgeon and Chimserahave the bones of the spine as soft as those of the Chondropterygii, but the first of these genera has in many of the bones of the head and shoulder, at least a layer at the surface, completely ossified. Other Fishes differ widely from each other in the hardness of the parts of their skeleton, and the fibro-cartilaginous have from this circum- stance been enoneously associated with the Chondropterygii. In these, however, the cal- careous matter, that is to say, the phosphate of lime, is deposited by fibres and layers in the cartilage, which serves as a basis to their bones, as. is the case with the most perfectly osseous