786 ORBIT. orbital, ciliary and muscular; the third is given off when the artery has passed over to the nasal side of the orbit, and consists of the ethmoidal, palpebral, nasal, and frontal arteries. The lachrymal artery is one of the largest branches of the ophthalmic; it arises from the ophthalmic either within the optic hole or imme- diately after that artery has entered the orbit. It sometimes arises from the middle meningeal artery, and enters the orbit through the sphe- noidal foramen. It passes forwards along the outer wall of the orbit between the periosteum and the external rectus muscle; it enters the lachrymal gland, sending numerous branches to it; it then emerges from the gland and supplies the conjunctiva and the upper eyelid. It gives a malar branch which passes through the malar bone and anastomoses in the substance of the temporal muscle with the anterior deep tem- poral artery. The lachrymal artery generally anastomoses with the middle meningeal by a branch sent in through the sphenoidal fissure. The central artery of the retina is a small branch which enters obliquely the optic nerve; it passes forwards in the centre of the nerve, enters the globe of the eye, and expands out into a vascular membrane on the inner surface of the retina. One small branch passes through the vitreous humour and reaches the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. The supra-orbital artery arises from the oph- thalmic while it is above the optic nerve ; it is one of the largest branches of the artery: it passes forwards close under the periosteum of the roof, and above the levator palpebral, in company with the frontal nerve. It escapes from the orbit at the supra-orbital notch, and sends branches on the forehead, some between the skin and muscles, and others between the occipito-frontalis and the periosteum. In the orbit it supplies the levator palpebral and supe- rior rectus muscles, and sends some branches to the upper lid. The ciliary arteries are very numerous, and are divided into three sets—anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior ciliary arteries are irregular in number and origin ; they usually come off from the muscular branches at the anterior part of the orbit; they perforate the sclerotic about one or two lines behind the cornea : some branches go to the iris and anas- tomose with the long ciliary arteries; others go to the choroid and anastomose with the short ciliary. The middle or long ciliary arteries are two in number; they accompany the nerves of the same name. They pierce the sclerotic at some distance from the optic nerve, and pass horizontally one on each side between the scle- rotic and the choroid. They pass through the ciliary ligament and supply the iris. The pos- terior or short ciliary arteries are remarkably delicate and tortuous ; they are accompanied by the ciliary nerves from the lenticular ganglion. Their origin is somewhat irregular; most of them arise from the ophthalmic artery, but oc- casionally some from the supra-orbital or from some muscular branches. There are as many as fifteen or twenty of these arteries, which sur- round the optic nerve in a spiral and tortuous manner; they pierce the sclerotic about two lines anterior to the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid and ciliary processes. (For the mode of arrangement of these ciliary vessels in the choroid and iris see the article Eye.) The muscular branchesaxe uncertain in num- ber and origin; they usually consist of two sets, a superior and an inferior. The superior set often come from the frontal artery, and supply the levator palpebral, the superior oblique and the superior rectus muscles. The inferior muscular artery is a regular branch from the ophthalmic ; it descends on the inner side of the optic nerve ; it first sends a branch to the external rectus and then supplies the inferior and internal recti, and the inferior oblique; some branches pass on to the lower eyelid and the lachrymal sac. These arteries are usually distributed to the ocular surface of the muscles. The ethmoidal arteries, two in number, are given off from the ophthalmic near the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior is usually the larger; it passes through the posterior orbital foramen and enters the skull, where it sends off some anterior meningeal branches, then passes down through the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone, and is distributed on the mucous membrane of the nose. The anterior ethmoidal passes through the anterior internal orbital fora- men with the nasal nerve; it has the same distribution as the posterior branch. The palpebral arteries, two in number, arise near the inner angle of the orbit. The superior arises above the tendon of the orbicularis palpe- brarum ; it passes outwards and supplies the upper lid, one branch running near the tarsal margin of the lid, while the others are distri- buted to the muscles and integuments of the middle and upper part of the lid, where they anastomose with the supra-orbital artery. The inferior palpebral artery passes down behind the tendon of the orbicularis, then runs out- wards along the lower lid, forming an arch near the free margin of the lid, and is gradually lost near the external can thus. It anastomoses with the angular branch of the facial, with the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary, with the transverse facial and temporal arteries. Beneath the internal angular process the oph- thalmic artery terminates by dividing into the nasal and the frontal branches. The nasal artery emerges from the orbit above the tendon of the orbicularis ; it anasto- moses freely with the angular artery, sends branches to the lachrymal sac, and terminates in a branch which passes down the dorsum of the nose, and communicates at the extremity of the nose with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The frontal artery passes out of the orbit with the nasal, then turns upwards, and is dis- tributed to the muscles and integuments of the forehead, anastomosing with the supra-orbital and with the arteries of the opposite side. The ophthalmic vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit, where it communicates freely with the angular and frontal veins; it passes