834 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. An at.) of their life a true branchial apparatus, which subsequently becomes absorbed to give place to thoracic or pulmonary respiration, and consequently they are furnished in the first portion of their existence with the hyoid system of a fish, which, passing through dif- ferent phases of gradually diminishing com- plexity, is slowly converted into the simple form it presents in their mature or adult condition. So diversified, in fact, is this por- tion of the osseous skeleton in the different classes of Vertebrata, that the anatomist only acquainted with human osteology would never be able to recognise the analogy between what he sees in man and the condition in which it exists in its more complicated slates, or at all understand the metamorphosis which it un- dergoes in the embryo of Mammalia, without tracing it through all its forms, as we shall now proceed to do with as much brevity as is compatible with our subject. In the Fish the os hyoides is situated as in all the other Vertebrata, and is composed of twelve bones. It consists of two branches, each made up of five distinct elements, namely, the styloid bone (29), which suspends it to the temporal; two broad lateral pieces (jig. 436, 37 and 38) placed one behind the other, and two small bones (39 and 40) placed one above the other at the anterior extremity of each branch, and forming with their fellows of the opposite side a kind of symphysis uniting the two halves of the bone. In front of this sym- physis is a single bone, the Ungual^) situ- ated as in Birds and Reptiles, and behind in the angle formed by the union of the two branches another azygos piece representing the tail of the os hyoides so distinct in Lizards and in Birds. This latter piece becoming joined to the symphysis of the humeral bones forms the isthmus that inferiorly separates the two bran- chial apertures of the fish. Appended to the inferior and external mar- gin of each branch of the os hyoides of a fish, are the branchiostegous rays (Jig. 437, 43), destined to support the branchiostegous mem- brane that completes the gill-covers. These are very various both in number and form in different fishes; they are fixed to the os hy- oides by distinct articulations, sometimes by simple ligaments. Autenrieth and Geoffroy suppose these branchiostegous rays to be the representatives of sterna! ribs, but doubtless they belong rather to the exo-skeleton. To facilitate, however, a comparison between the above complicated series of bones and the corresponding pieces met with in other classes, it will be advisable to lay before the reader the result of the elaborate analysis of this part of the skeleton made by Geoffroy St. Hilaire, whose names applied to the various elements composing it are not only classically elegant, but from their simplicity will save much useless circumlocution. When complete, the distin- guished anatomist alluded to considers the o • hyoides to consist of the following parts: The body or basihyal piece, forming the central portion of the fabric; the urohyal or tail of the os hyoides ffig. 437, 42); the entohyal, a piece sometimes interposed between the two former; two glosso/iyals or posterior cornua ; two apohyals (39) forming the first pieces of the anterior or styloid cornua; two ceratohyals(40) forming the second pieces of these branches; and lastly, two stylohyals (29), which are re- presented in the human subject by the styloid processes of the temporal bone. Appended to this hyoid apparatus are a series of lateral arches emulating in their im- portance the ribs in the water-breathing Ver- tebrata, and indeed somewhat resembling them in structure and arrangement, along which run the branchial vessels to the gills, and subse- quently from the gills to form the aorta. These arches have in fact, by some continental anato- mists, been actually looked upon as repre- senting the thorax of Vertebrata that respire the air, but with little reason, as must be evi- dent on considering how, as the real thorax is called into play, these are gradually absorbed and disappear. The branchial arches of a fish, from which are suspended the branchial fringes, consist on each side of four chains of bones adherent by their inferior extremities to an intermediate series of ossicles, which is connected ante- riorly with the symphysis of the os hyoides between the four anterior elements of that bone and above its tail. Superiorly the branchial arches are fixed by a ligamentous attachment beneath the cranium. The series of intermediate bones with which the pairs of branchial arches are connected in- feriorly, are placed behind the lingual and are three in number, forming a kind of little ster- num to the hyoid apparatus. Each of the branchial arches consists of a superior and in- ferior portion that are moveable upon each other. The inferior portion (Jig. 437, 58) is that connected with the intermediate chain of bones, and in the anterior three pairs of arches this is formed of two pieces. The posterior pair has this part composed of only one piece. The upper portions of the branchial arches are made up of a single bone. The three posterior (Jig. 437, 61) support the pharyn- geal bones (Jig. 437, 62), while the anterior is attached to the skull by the intervention of a little style (59), which might be regarded as the pharyngeal bone belonging to this pair. Internally all the branchial arches are pro- vided with osseous plates or ridges which are generally covered with teeth. These perform in some degree the function of the epiglottis of Mammalia, inasmuch as they prevent any- thing taken into the mouth from getting into the gills along with the water as it passes to the respiratory organs. The pharyngeal bones are peculiar to Fishes, and are situated in the throat, where they powerfully assist in masticating the food. There are usually two inferior and six superior. The inferior (Jig. 437, 56) are attached behind the branchise in the angle formed by the last pair of branchial arches; they are generally of a triangular shape, and form a kind of floor to the pharynx. The upper pieces (Jig. 437, 62) are three in number on each side, each