958 PISCES. Fishes. It is only less abundant, and conse- quently the texture of the bone does not be- come so hard or homogeneous. It is very gratuitously that the skeleton of ordinary Fishes has been supposed to be more flexible, of a softer nature, and more ex- tensible than in the superior classes of Verte- brata. Most Fishes have their bones as hard as or harder than other animals, and there are even some, in the texture of which neither pores nor fibres are distinguishable, and which appear homogeneous or even vitreous to the eye. No Fish, either osseous or cartilaginous, has a medullary canal in its bones; but there are some, as the Trouts, in which the bony tissue is more or less penetrated with an oily fluid. There are some Fishes in which, whilst the rest of the skeleton acquires great hardness, some parts remain always cartilaginous, as for example, the head of the Pike. Skeleton of osseous Fishes.—In osseous Fishes, we shall regard the skeleton as being composed of the head, of the respiratory appa- ratus, of the trunk, comprising the body and tail, and of the limbs, viz, the pectoral and ventral fins. The vertical fins, viz, those of the back, anus, and tail, may be regarded as form- ing part of the trunk. The head having more moveable appendages than that of Quadrupeds must be divided into a greater number of regions. We may distinguish in it the cranium, the jaws, the bones placed un- der the cranium behind the jaws, serving for their suspension and motions; the opercular bones, forming flappers, which open and shut the openings of the branchiae; the bones surround- ing the nostril, which are nearly external, as also are those around the eye or the temple, or which cover a part of the cheek. The respiratory apparatus comprises the os hyoides and its appendages, that is to say, the branchiostegous rays and the arches supporting the branchiae, as also the different pieces at- tached to these arches, and which altogether perform the functions of larynx and of trachea; lastly, the bones placed at the entrance to the pharynx, forming in some measure a second pair of jaws. The trunk is composed of the vertebras of the back and tail (for we can hardly say there is a neck, neither is there any sacrum,) of the ribs, of the bones called interspinous, which support the dorsal and anal fins; also the rays of these fins, as well as of the tail. These rays, whether they have branches or articulations, or are simply spinous, are always divisible into two lateral halves. There is rarely a sternum, pro- perly so called, in Fishes; and when it exists, it is formed of pieces which are almost external, and which unite the lower extremities of the ribs. The anterior extremity or pectoral fin com- prehends the shoulder, which is an osseous semicircle composed of many bones, suspended at the upper part to the cranium or spine, and uniting inferiorly with its fellow of the opposite side. We may here find bones analogous to the two pieces of the scapula of Reptiles, to the humerus and to the bones of the forearm ; there is even generally a process composed of two pieces protruding; backwards, in which we might seek to see the coracoid bones and even the clavicle. The two bones comparable to the radius and ulna carry at their edge a row of ossicula, which appear to represent those of the carpus, and which support the rays of the pectoral fin, with the exception of the first, which articu- lates at once with the radial bone. The posterior extremity is much more va- riable in position than among Mammalia; its external or moveable portion, called the ventral Jin, emerges sometimes before, sometimes behind, and sometimes immediately beneath the an- terior extremity. The pelvis is composed of four bones, the largest and most constant of which, being always in front of the anus and genital orifices, may be considered as a sort of pubis, and these carry on a part of their posterior edge the rays of the ventral fin, without interme- diate bones which can correspond either to femur, tibia, fibula, or tarsus. The rays of the pectoral and ventral fins, as of those of the single ones, are divisible longitudinally into two portions. Vertebral column.—The vertebra? of a Fish are at once recognisable by the deep conical cavities which form the articulating surfaces whereby they are connected together, so that a double hollow cone always occupies the in- terval between two vertebra, which in the living state is filled up by a soft membranous and gelatinous substance, which passes from one intervertebral cavity into another through holes which generally perforate the centres of the bodies of the vertebrae. In Fishes, as in all other animals, each ver- tebra presents superiorly a ring for the passage of the spinal medulla bounded by the superior spinal laminae (neurapophyses), which is gene- rally surmounted by a long spinous process, (fig. 493, 4,) at the base of which are situated both upon the anterior and posterior aspect little eminences that correspond to the articulating processes of other Vertebrata; but most gene- rally these processes only touch or slightly overlap those of the neighbouring vertebrae without their being connected together by articulating facets. Sometimes, indeed, they exist on one side of the vertebra and not on the other, so that they have no corres- pondents wherewith to articulate. The an- nular part of the first vertebra is frequently separated from the body during the whole life- time of the Fish, but in the other vertebrae no such separation is visible. In some families, as in the Muranidce, part of the anterior vertebrae have a little crest or vertical apophysis developed from beneath the body. Other races have a portion of the bodies of their vertebrae soldered together; of this there are examples among the Cyprinidae, Fistularidae, and Siluridae. Those vertebrae which are situated above the abdominal cavity have transverse processes de- veloped to a greater or less extent. These, in some instances, as, for example, in the Cy-