ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. * Zoonomia, vol. ii, p. 5. * Anatomie Pathologique, liv. 12. Sometimes these tumours present a certain de- gree of consistence, but as they increase in size they become more and more softened and pulpy. Baillie describes a large tumour in the liver which he considers scrofulous from being softened in the centre, and containing a fluid resembling pus; this is most probably a tumour of the kind I am now describing. Another tumour, of which he expresses himself at a loss to understand the nature, soft, of a brownish colour, and of about the size of a nut, appears to be also referable to the same species. The second and third varieties of the tubera diffusa of Fane present characters resembling this disease. V. 2. " Tubera, elevated at the surfaces of the affected organ, encysted, or having dis- tinct cells, formed by the growth of a fungus, which separates in flakes, and is composed of a fine reticular texture, containing an opaque white fluid." V. 3. " Tumours rising with a regular swell from the surfaces of the affected parts and yielding to the touch, composed of a very delicate reticular texture, pulpy in its consistence, varying in its colour even in the same subject, charged with an opaque fluid, and growing from cysts or cells." Cruveilhier considers the venous capillary system as the seat of origin of carcinoma, par- ticularly of the form which I am now consi- dering ; hence he observes, " Ayant exprime d'une coupe faite a un foie cancereux une ma- tiere d'un blanc-rougeatre, encephaloide qui se moulait a la maniere du vermicelle, et qui pouvait acquerir en se tordant une grande lon- gueur, j'apercus sur cette coupe un orifice plus considerable que les autres ; j'incisai cet orifice et je parvins dans un vaisseau tres volumineux qui me parut etre une des ramifications de la veine porte. Alois je dissequai avec beaucoup d'attention cette veine, et je ne fus pas peu etonne de voir que cette veine, depuis les plus grandes jusq'aux plus petites divisions, etait remplie par cette matiere encephaloide, adhe- rente aux parois et tout-a-fait semblable a celle qu'on exprimait par les coupes faites au foie. II me fut facile de suivre les ramifications ex- tremement dilatees de la veine jusque dans Fareoles des coupes. L'alteration etait bornee a la veine porte, les veines hepatiques et leurs ramifications etaient parfaitement saines."* I. Fungus hamutodes is the term applied to all carcinomatous tumours which have a ten- dency to the unnatural development of new vessels and to effusions of blood into their tissue. In the same organ, hard and cartilaginous scirrhous tumours may exist with those of a softer texture, and of a medullary form, and both of these may be mingled together in the soft, elastic, and bleeding mass which consti- tutes fungus hasmatodes. The tumours of fungus hasmatodes are often of very large size, and by their frequent hemorrhagies give rise to extreme symptoms and the speedy death of the patient. Farre arranges this form of carcinoma among his tubera diffusa, of which it forms the fourth variety, which he thus defines : " Tu- mours elevated at the surfaces of the liver and inclining to a round figure ; pulpy in their con- sistence, being charged with a thick and opaque fluid, variegated in their colour, chiefly white mingled with red, the former prevailing in their incipient, the latter in their advanced stages, composed of a very vascular and reticular tex- ture, attached either to distinct pouches or to the substance of the liver, and so unlimited and rapid in its growth as to burst or destroy the peritoneal tunic of this organ and to pro- trude in the form of a bleeding fungus." m. Melanosis.—Melanosis exists in the liver, as in other structures of the body, 1st, as a melanic secretion infiltrating the cellular struc- ture of the organ, and giving a diffused general blackness to the substance of the lobules; 2d, as a morbid tissue composed of an areolar cel- lular network, in which the black carbonaceous matter is deposited; or 3dly, as a melanic pigment accompanying carcinoma or tubercle, and imbuing the abnormal tissue with its pe- culiar colour. The colour of melanosis in the liver varies from a deep chocolate-brown to a rich black. Sometimes it is diffused in patches through the substance of the organ, at other times it exists in the form of rounded circum- scribed tubercles of variable size and number. Laennec considers melanosis as an accidental tissue without analogue among the animal tis- sues ; he classes it with cancerous degenera- tions, and describes it as existing in his two favourite conditions of crudity and softening. But the researches of Cruveilhier have shewn that in many instances melanosis is to be re- ceived as a mere pigment, resembling the pig- mentum nigrum of the choroid, which impresses its peculiar colour upon natural and morbid tissues, and he has also proved, in opposition to the view entertained by Laennec, that the softened state or state of infiltration very fre- quently precedes the more dense and encysted form. Melanosis rarely exists in the liver with- out being at the same time found in various other structures of the body, as in the brain, eye, lungs, heart, spleen, kidney, mucous mem- brane, muscles, skin, &c. 6. Disorders of function.—The principal function of the liver bein; the secretion of bile, we shall have to consider under this head the changes which may occur in the secretion of this fluid and in the fluid itself, in consequence of derangement of function in the organ. These disorders may be divided into three kinds: — a. Suppression of the bile. b. Alterations in the physical properties of the bile. c. Alterations in the chemical qualities of the bile. a, Suppression of secretion of the bile, like suppression of urine, occasionally occurs in the liver. This disease appears to have been known to Darwin,* who calls it " paralysis of the secretory vessels" of the liver; the patients, he says, " lose their appetite, then their flesh and strength diminish in consequence, there appears no bile in their stools nor in their urine,