LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 208 more than five or six. They maintain their ordi- nary size and appearance to within a quarter of an inch of the gland, where they suddenly branch out, artery-like, into several exceedingly minute vessels which plunge into the gland, thus con- veying the lymph, in a minutely divided state through this organ to emerge again from it by a converse arrangement of equally small vessels, which at a quarter of an inch from the gland, are collected like so many small veins into one or more trunks, called the vasa efferentia of the gland ; not unfrequently there is but one of these vessels passing from a gland, and rarely more than two or three; they are, however, generally larger than the vasa inferentia, and often double theirsize. ( Fig. 52.) A similar arrange- ment in the bloodvessels before entering or passing from their appropriate glandular organs may be noticed in the spleen and kidney, but the only instance in which a bloodvessel col- lecting its contents from branches assumes the opposite function of distributing them into narrow streams occurs in the vena porta, where the blood is to be passed through the liver to be subjected to its action. The same object, it is true, is effected at the heart with the blood of the venae cavae, together with the lymph and chyle, when conveyed in capil- lary streams through the lungs to be converted into arterial blood; the right side of the heart, however, here intervenes between the collect- ing vessels and those which have to redistribute the blood ; the latter also are called arteries though they convey the same venous blood to the lungs which the former vessels brought to the heart. The vasa inferentia are by most authors des- cribed as entering that edge of the gland which is farthest removed from the trunks of the system, and the vasa efferentia that nearest to them. This I find not to be the case; the vessels usually plunge into and emerge from the broadest surfaces of the gland; sometimes it is the deeper surface, sometimes the more superficial, and frequently both. The vasa in- ferentia may enter one surface, and the vasa efferentia pass from the same or the opposite surface of the gland. The vasa efferentia, as they proceed onward, become the vasa infe- rentia of succeeding glands; thus the lymph is often made to traverse several glands before it is received by the trunks of the system. This is so much the case in the neighbourhood of the thoracic duct, especially in the pelvic and abdominal cavities, that the lymphatic system assumes altogether a different aspect; the net- work appearance, the uniformity in point of size, are lost sight of in the numerous large short vasa efferentia and inferentia, intervening be- tween the closely set glands. The appropriate lymphatic vessels of the viscera and walls of these cavities, nevertheless maintain the ordi- nary disposition, the apparent irregularity de- pending upon the circumstance, that the large lymphatics of the lower extremities, are inter- rupted by numerous glands in their passage to the thoracic duct. The lymphatic vessels are distributed through- out the body on two planes, one superficial, the other deeply seated. The vessels of the two planes where they approach each other commu- nicate freely. A similar arrangement takes place partially in the venous system; and it is interest- ing to remark that where this occurs, the veins, like the lymphatics, are armed with valves. We cannot fail to recognize here a double pro- vision to facilitate the progress of the contents of a vessel towards their proper destination; while the valves prevent effectually any retro- grade movement, the double plane of vessels, by increasing the number of channels, lessens the liability to arrest from the various causes of obstruction. The superficial lymphatics accompany more or less the superficial veins where these occur, but in other parts of the body they assume various appearances peculiar to each viscus or organ ; the superficial lympha- tics, of the liver, spleen, kidney, and lungs, for instance, differ materially from each other in arrangement and appearance. The deep-seated lymphatics every where follow the course of the large bloodvessels. They are fewer in number and perhaps rather larger than the superficial. The superficial and deep lymphatics commu- nicate with each other in the lymphatic glands as well as in different parts of their course. The chief peculiarity of the coats of the lymphatic vessels is their remarkable thinness and transparency; in other respects they bear considerable resemblance to the coats of the veins ; indeed in some of the lower animals the veins are nearly as thin, and when empty of blood, as transparent as the lymphatics. All anatomists admit the existence of two coats in the lymphatics, an internal serous lining, which at intervals is thrown into folds to form the valves, and an external thicker fibrous covering; to these is added by some anatomists, with whom I am disposed to coincide, a third, analogous to the cellular tunic of the bloodvessels, which conveys to them their vasa vasorum, and by which they are connected to the surrounding structures. The inner tunic is extremely fine and delicate, probably less elastic and extensible than is ge- nerally imagined, and is the first to give way under distention from forced injections. It appears to possess a much closer texture than the fibrous tunic, to which it is firmly adherent, and whose contractions and dilatations it is compelled to follow. The epithelium scales are distinguished with difficulty on the inner surface of this tunic, but I have satisfied my- self of their existence. On placing an opened lymphatic in the field of the microscope after the bloodvessels have been minutely injected, the vasa vasorum may be very distinctly seen ; but it is difficult, from the perfect trans- parency of this tunic, to say whether these vessels reach it, or are only seen through it. The vasa vasorum of the lymphatics do not appear to affect any constant or fixed arrange- ment ; they are by no means numerous, and I have never been able to detect any on the val- vular folds. The fibrous tunic, like the internal, is trans- parent; it is very elastic, and admits of consi- derable distention without rupture. There is