849 OSSEOUS TISSUE. fused state of the specimen, a little dilute muriatic acid should be placed upon the glass in contact with the specimen. Solution of the powdered mass will instantly commence, but the broken granules will hav;e disappeared be- fore the entire ones are appreciably affected. If at this point of the experiment the acid be re- moved and replaced by pure water, a perfect specimen will be gained. In examining the tissue under consideration it is most satisfactory to watch the action of the acid upon the cal- cined or steamed bone, and especially its action upon the small masses, for in these, when un- dergoing the action of dilute acid, the granules composing them become particularly distinct, so that their individual character may be stu- died ; and if the solvent be not removed, their separate disappearance may be watched as the superficial ones are exposed and acted upon by the solvent fluid. If the acid be left with the so treated bone for a sufficient length of time, all the earthy matter will be dissolved and there will remain a transpaient indistinctly cellular mass, which may be supposed to be an inter- granular substance, the purpose of which was to unite the granules into a compact whole. Bone which has been treated with dilute acid without the previous removal of the ani- mal matter, soon loses the earthy component, leaving only the animal. This, however, does not tend to develope the granularity; indeed it seems, in most cases, to render it less dis- tinct than in either the unaltered or the calcined bone. The granules themselves are subject to some variety in size, commonly varying from the one-sixth to one-third the size of a human blood globule. Of the lamina.—The form taken by the bone substance is that of laminae, and these laminae have a definite arrangement, so much so that three distinct systems may be recognised, namely, laminae of the Haversian canals; secondly, the lamina; which connect the Haversian systems; and thirdly, the laminae which form the surface of the bone and enclose the two previous orders. The laminae of the Haversian canals have a concentric arrangement, and present, when divided transversely, a series of more or less distinct and perfect rings : see figs. 448 and 450. They are subject to considerable variety in number, but the more common amount is ten or twelve. Of these, the internal lamina, that which forms the parietesof the Haversian canal,is most distinctly marked, while each succeeding one as you proceed outwards becomes less distinct. The concentric lamina? with bone cells and central canal have received the name of Haversian system from Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman in their work on Physiology. Connecting these Haversian systems is a second series of laminae, without which the former would exist but as a bundle of loose tubes. (See Jig. 448, c). In this substance we find the laminated arrangement less distinct, far less regular, and the laminae individually subject to great irregularity of thickness. It is often also more transparent than either the Haversian or exter- VOL. III. nal system. Bone cells contained in it are also more irregular in shape than those found in other situations. The last division consists of those laminae which surround the exterior of the bone. These have greater individual extent, but are the least numerous. They are continuous with the laminae of the Haversian system whenever the latter arrive at the surface of the bone; the external laminae in this case being continuous with the inner laminae of the Haversian system. Some authors have doubted the existence of a laminated arrangement in bone. If, however, young bone be examined, all doubt upon the subject will be dispelled, and especially if it be first macerated in weak muriatic acid, when the appearance represented in Jig. 450 will be seen. In bone so treated the lamina' may with Fig. 450. The lamina: a,i they appear a fter the removal of the animal mutter by the action of acid. the assistance of two needles be separated. In the bones of old animals the laminae are much less distinct; in these, however, they maybe de- monstrated if acid be used. Though the external lamina is very distinct, and therefore the boun- dary of each Haversian system, yet in bone of advanced a°e the distinctness is lost in com- mon with the definite outlines of the three orders of lamina?.. The cancelli of the can- cellous portion of bones are but enlarged Haversian canals, which in addition to vessels contain fat; the lamina? therefore which form the walls are those of the Haversian system. In connection with this division of the sub- ject, the effect of madder given to an animal with its food upon the osseous system may be noticed, since the colour is imparted to the lamina. By the taking of madder into the stomach the effect of giving a deep red tinge is very soon observable. In a pigeon the bones were rendered brilliantly red in twenty-four hours. In a young pig a similar effect was produced in three weeks. On making sections of bone so affected the colour is found to be present in the external laminae of the bone, and in the inner laminae of the Haversian system, thereby proving that the action of colouring takes place upon those sur- faces which lie in contact with vessels. This fact, with many others in this article, was men- tioned in a paper by the author read before the Royal Society in June of 1838. Of the Haversian canals.—These canals 3 i