LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 230 are received into the principal branches. These latter pass upwards in front of the transverse vein, to empty themselves on the left side into the termination of the thoracic duct; on the right, into the right lymphatic trunk, or they join the large veins separately, close to the en- trance of the two trunks of the system. The lymphatics of the lungs are of large size, and are divided, as in other parts of the body, into a superficial and deep-seated set. The latter accompany the ramifications of the bloodvessels and air-tubes throughout the texture of the organ, and communicate at various points with the superficial vessels. The principal branches escape from the lung at its root, where they are joined by the superficial vessels, and pass with them through the large bronchial glands. The superficial lymphatics of the lung are larger than those of any other viscus; they are situated in the interlobular fissures immediately under the pleura, and are injected with greater facility than the lymphatics of other parts of the body; their principal branches pass from the surface of the lung towards the inner edge and root of the organ, where they unite with the deep-seated ves- sels, and pass with them through the bron- chial glands. The vasa efferentia of these glands having communicated with the glands in the posterior mediastinum pass upwards on the trachea, where they meet with other glands with which they interchange branches; having entered the cervical region with the trachea, they unite freely with other lymphatics, espe- cially with those of the thyroid gland, and ultimately terminate, on the left side, in the thoracic duct; on the right, in the right lym- phatic trunk, or separately in the large veins. The lymphatics of the heart are neither large nor numerous; they proceed both from the sub- stance and from the surface of the organ ac- companying the principal bloodvessels; their appropriate glands are chiefly situated on the ascending thoracic aorta and trunk of the pul- monary artery; where these vessels are covered by the pericardium, they ascend in front of the arch of the aorta, pass between the sternum and transverse veins, communicate freely with the large vessels of the anterior mediastinum, and terminate with them on either side in the trunks of the system, the greater number, however, passing on the left sides to the tho- racic duct. The deep-seated lymphatics of the upper ex- tremity successively accompany the digital arte- ries, the superficial and deep palmar arches, the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. At least two lymphatic vessels accompany each ar- tery ; they communicate by short transverse branches with each other, and also at different points with the superficial lymphatics. At the bend of the elbows they unite into three or four vessels which pass up the arm with the bra- chial artery to gain the axillary glands, into which they empty themselves. The small glands which not unfrequently may be found accompanying the brachial artery, and even, but more rarely, the ulnar or radial vessels do not generally intercept the deep lymphatic Fig. 57. Superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity. (After Mascagni.) a, a, Commencing lymphatic vessels ascending in the forearm with branches of the median vein. b, c, d, The continuations of the vessels similarly marked in the former woodcut. e, A vessel passing from the posterior to the an- terior surface of the arm over its outer edge. f, Branches of the basilic vein. g, Cephalic vein. h, Axillary glands. i, Two small glands situated above the internal condyle. vessels, but the latter rather receive the efferent vessels from these glands, they having collected their afferent vessels from the surrounding tex- tures.