842 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) In all the mammiferous Quadrupeds pos- sessed of unguiculate feet, the digital phalanges of the anterior extremity present nothing worthy of special notice in this place, minor differences being noticed under the proper heads; but in the ungulate Pachydermata, such as the Rumi- nants and Solipeds, remarkable exceptions to the usual arrangement are met with. In the Ruminants only the two central fingers are well developed, each consisting of three large pha- langes, the distal one of winch is enclosed in a strong hoof, so as to give the cloven appearance to the whole foot which is so characteristic of the order; but besides these, two rudimentary toes exist, one on the outer, the other on the inner side of the foot, but so small as not to reach the ground or to be serviceable in the or- dinary progression of these creatures. In the Solipeds even the division between the central large toes that exists in the Rumi- nant becomes obliterated, and the whole foot appears to be made up of a single toe consisting of three strong phalanges, the distal one being encased in a large semicircular hoof. Even in these animals, however, rudiments of two other toes are distinguishable, but very imperfectly developed. Ilium.—This is the principal bone entering into the composition of the pelvic arch, and fre- quently is the only one met with in this part of the skeleton. In the osseous Fishes it is not yet connected with the spine, so that the posterior part of the body is left perfectly free and un- trammelled, in order to allow of the extensive movements of the tail required for the propul- sion of these aquatic animals through the water. There is consequently here no sacrum, and we are not surprised to see the posterior limbs ex- tremely variable in their arrangement, being placed far back or advanced towards the ante- rior part of the body as circumstances require. Even in the cartilaginous Fishes the pelvis has no connection with the spine, the whole con- sisting of a broad transverse osseous band placed beneath the terminal portion of the abdomen. In the Batrachia, too, the iliac bones retain to some extent the form of ribs, and in the Frog are two bones of considerable length attached to the prolonged transverse processes of the last vertebra, which of course, in this case, represents the sacrum. In the Toad another step is made towards strengthening the posterior part of the spine, preparing it to support locomotive organs of greater energy by fixing the iliac bones to two of the vertebral transverse processes, forming a sacrum composed of two bones, which is in fact the usual condition of this part of the ske- leton in the higher Reptiles. In the Chelonians, however, the iliac bones are again attached to asingle vertebra and pelvis, like the bones of the shoulder placed internal to the ribs which form the carapax or dorsal shield. The ilium, in all the class of Birds, is enor- mously developed in proportion to the unfa- vourable circumstances under which they sup- port themselves upon their posterior extre- mities. It extends along the sides of the ver- tebral column, to which it is solidly anehy- losed, converting into one immense sacrum from eight to nineteen of the posterior vertebrae, which are so completely fused to each other and to the iliac bones that their number is only distinguishable from the positions of the inter- vertebral foramina through which the nerves escape from the spinal canal in this region. In Mammals the iliac bones are likewise greatly developed, except in theCetacea, where, in consequence of the necessity for fish-like flexibility in the hinder part of the body, no hinder extremities exist. The sacrum is com- posed of a considerable number of vertebra; here anchylosed together and considerably mo- dified in their form, to which the broad ossa ilii are firmly secured by ligaments and an interposed cartilage, giving a firmness to this part of the skeleton second only to what is observable in the feathered races. The ossa ischii, the second elements entering into the composition of the pelvic framework, are not so invariably present as the iliac bones. In Fishes they are not to be found: but in all the Reptilia, where the elements of the skeleton remain permanently disunited to a much greater extent than in warm-blooded animals, they are constantly present, except, of course, where the hinder extremities are deficient, and are sepa- rated by a very distinct line of demarcation from the other bones of the pelvis. As in the shoulder, the articular cavity for the attachment of the anterior limbs when all the elements of that part are fully developed, is formed by the union of three bones, so likewise in the pelvis, which is only a repetition of the same apparatus modified in form, do all the three bones of which it consists enter into the formation of the cotyloid cavity, a circumstance which, in Reptiles, is particularly conspicuous. In the class Aves, notwithstanding the aber- rant condition of the pelvis, the ischia are easily distinguishable from their position, bounding as they do the obturator foramen on the one side, and the sacro-ischiatic notch on the other. In the Cetacean Mammals this element of the skeleton is again obliterated, but in all the other orders it is present, and in the earlier stages of life is readily demonstrable as a dis- tinct bone of the pelvis. The ossa pubis are the third pair of elements entering into the composition of the pelvic ca- vity, and to these the same remarks are appli- cable as we have already made concerning the ischia. In Fishes they are not present, but throughout the Reptile orders that possess a pelvis they are very distinct and important parts of the skeleton, meeting each other anteriorly in the mesial line, where they are united by a strong symphysis. The pubic bones in Birds occupy a cor- responding position; they are here, however, remarkable from the circumstance that their distal extremities never (except in the Os- trich) meet to form a pubic symphysis, but are always widely separated from each other, an