516 MUSCLE. arranged as a few long fibres (as in the sar- torius), or as many short ones (as in the masseter). In the former case its con- tractions would be characterized by their ex- tent, in the latter by their power; for, cater is paribus, the extent is as the length, the power as the thickness. The terms origin and insertion are employed with great convenience in ordinary anatomical language to denote the more fixed and the more moveable attachments of muscles. In human anatomy general consent has sanctioned their use, and even, with few exceptions, their par- ticular application to each muscle in the body, although this assignment is in many cases arbi- trary, in consequence of its being impossible to determine which attachment is the more fre- quently the fixed one. The arrangement of the fibres in the heart has been already fully treated of in this work. (See Heart, Fibres of.) In the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, of the bladder, and uterus, the unstriped fibres are disposed, as in the heart, so as to enclose a cavity, but without having, as in that organ, any point at which they can be said to com- mence or terminate. In the alimentary tube they are arranged in two lamina?, the respective fibres of which take a course at right angles to each other. In the bladder the arrangement is reticulate. The elementary fibres form sets of variable thickness, which at numerous points send off detachments to join neigh- bouring bundles, whence has sprung the notion that the fibres are branched. It is mani- festly, however, the sets of them only that are branched, the unstriped like the striped fibres being invariably simple from end to end. In the uterus the disposition of the fibres is essen- tially similar, calculated to allow of great variety in the capacity of the cavity they encircle. Of the areolar tissue of muscles.—This tissue is much more abundant in the voluntary than in the involuntary muscles. In the former it forms an external investment, which sends septa into the intervals between the larger and smaller packets of fibres, and thus enables them to move in some degree independently of one another. The density of these general and partial sheaths is proportioned to the amount of pressure to which the organ may be subject, as is exemplified in the superficial muscles of their back, and in those superficial muscles generally where a fibrous aponeurosis does not perform the same office. The areolar tissue does not usually clothe every individual fibre from end to end, giving it a cellular sheath, except in cases where the elementary fibres are of large dimensions. Besides the protection the areolar tissue affords to the mus- cular fibres, it admits of motions between them. But it must also serve the important office of limiting undue motions of one part of a muscle on another part, by its form- ing a connecting bond between neighbouring bundles. But a principal use of it appears to be that of furnishing a resisting nidus in which the delicate vessels and nerves can traverse the interstices of the fibres, and by which they can be protected from hurtful dragging during the unequal and oscillating movements of the fibres of a voluntary muscle during its state of activity. This idea is supported by the fact that scarcely any areolar tissue exists in the heart or in the unstriped muscles generally. In the heart, though the contraction is power- ful, it is instantaneous or nearly so, and there- fore probably more uniformly diffused, so that neighbouring fibres must be less moved on one another than in the more sustained contraction of a voluntary muscle. Moreover the mutual intertwining of even the elementary fibres in this organ is, in many parts of it, so intricate, as to contribute much to their mutual support. And in the other involuntary muscles, the con- tractions are slowly and evenly progressive along the fibres of the same set. Of the bloodvessels of muscles.—The arteries and veins of muscles commonly run together, and most of the arterial branches, to within two removes from the capillaries, aie accom- panied by two vena: comites. They invariably pass more or less across the direction of the fibres, divide and subdivide, first in the in- tervals between the larger sets, then between the smaller sets, till the ultimate twigs insinuate themselves between the fibres composing the smallest bundles, and break up into their capil- lary terminations. In this course the vessels supply the areolar tissue, their own coats, and the attendant nerves. The capillary plexus of the areolar membrane consists of irregular but pretty equal-sized meshes, and contrasts strongly with that of the muscular tissue itself. The proper capillaries of muscle are quite charac- teristic in their arrangement, so that a person who has once seen them can never afterwards mistake them. They consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the longitudinal always following the course of the elementary fibres, and lying in the intervals between them, the transverse being short communications placed at nearly equal distances between the longitu- dinal ones, and crossing nearly or quite trans- versely over or under the fibres. The manner in which the longitudinal vessels are placed in relation to the fibres, is seen in fig. 286, where I have represented them as they are seen on a transverse section. They usually occupy the interstice between three or more fibres, but sometimes also the space between the contiguous surfaces of two fibres. The length of the longitudinal vessels does not usually exceed the twentieth of an inch; in other words the terminal twigs of the artery and vein pertaining to the same capillary are seldom further than that apart. The length of the transverse anastomosing capillaries necessarily varies with the thickness of the fibres over which they pass (fig. 299). The diameter of the capillaries of muscle varies like that of others with the size of the blood particles of the animal. It is, however, only just sufficient to allow of the particles to pass. If a frag- ment of a frog's muscle, perfectly fresh, be examined, series of blood-particles will be seen in the longitudinal capillaries. These