NUTRITION. 746 rous as the red particles : this, Mr. Gulliver has frequently noticed in fcetal deer of about an inch and a half long. In a still smaller foetus the blood was pale from the preponderance of the white corpuscles. It is, therefore, a fact of much interest that, even in the mamrniferous embryo, at the period when growth is most rapid, the circulating fluid has a strong analogy to that of the Invertebrata. It then, too, bears in other respects the most striking analogy to chyle; since it consists of the fluid elaborated from the organizable matter supplied by the parent, and directly introduced into the current of the circulation. The function of the placental vessels may be regarded as double; for they are at the same time the channel, through which the alimentary materials supplied by the pa- rent are introduced into the circulating system of the foetus, and the medium of aerating the fluid which has traversed the foetal system. Hence the placenta may be regarded as at once the digestive and the respiratory appa- ratus of the foetus, and the fluid circulating through the cord as at once chyle and blood. It is not until the pulmonary and lacteal vessels of the embryo have commenced their indepen- dent operation, that the distinction between the blood and the chyle of the foetus becomes evi- dent; and we should expect, therefore, to find that the circulating fluid, up to the time of birth, contains a large proportion of white cor- puscles, which is actually the case. There is a gradual decrease, however, in their proportional number, from the earlier to the later stages of embryonic life, in accordance with the dimi- nishing energy of the formative processes. It has been also observed by Wagner* that the number of colourless corpuscles is always re- markably great in the blood of well-fed frogs just caught in the summer season ; and that it is very small in those, which had been kept long without food, and in those examined during the winter. The most remarkable evidence, however, of the connection between the generation of white corpuscles in the blood, and the production of fibrin, is derived from the phenomena of in- flammation. A decided increase in the normal proportion of fibrin in the blood (from 2j| to 3g parts in 1000) may probably be looked upon as the essential indication of the existence of the inflammatory condition. For it appears from the observations of Andral and Gavarret (which have been confirmed by many other pathologists) that such an increase uniformly manifests itself, when a local inflammation com- mences,—even when the proportion of fibrin has previously been abnormally low, as in febrile diseases; that it bears a constant rela- tion with the extent and intensity of the diseased action ; and that it diminishes with the abate- ment of the morbid condition of the part affected. In some instances, the proportion of fibrin was seen to rise as high as 9 or even 10 parts in 1000; but an increase to the amount of 6, 7, 8 parts, was more common. That this pro- duction of fibrin is due to a local change can * Op. cit. p. 245. scarcely be doubted; since it is frequently observed to commence before any consti- tutional symptoms manifest themselves; and it may be regarded, in fact, as one cause of these symptoms. Now the recent microscopic ob- servations of Mr. Addison* and Dr. Williams,f which were made independently of each other, have established the important fact, that a great accumulation of white corpuscles takes place in the vessels of an inflamed part; and this seems to be caused at first by a deter- mination of those already existing in the circu- lating fluid, towards the affected spot; but partly by an actual increase or generation of these bodies, which appear to have the power of very rapidly multiplying themselves. The accumulation of white corpuscles may be easily seen, by applying irritants to the web of a frog's foot. Mr. Addison has noticed it, in the human subject, in blood drawn by the prick of a needle, from an inflamed pimple, the base of a boil, the skin in scarlatina, &c. And the writer, without any knowledge of these observations, had remarked a very obvious difference between the proportions of white corpuscles, in blood drawn from a wound in the skin of a frog immediately upon the incision being made, and in that drawn a few minutes after ; and had been led, like the observers just quoted, to refer this difference to a deter- mination of white corpuscles to a part irritated. The absolute increase, sometimes to a very con- siderable amount, in the quantity of white corpuscles in the blood of an inflamed subject, has been verified by Mr. Gulliver and several other observers. These facts, therefore, afford strong ground for the belief, that the production of fibrin in the blood is closely connected with the development of the white corpuscles; and when we consider them in connection with the facts previously urged, there scarcely appears to be a reasonable doubt, that the elaboration of fibrin is a consequence of this form of cell-life, and is, in fact, its express object. A recent observation of Mr. Addison's, more- over, would seem to indicate, that no inconsider- able proportion of the fibrin of the circulating blood is contained within the white corpuscles. " Provide six or eight slips of glass, such as are usually employed for mounting microscopical objects ; and as many smaller pieces. Having drawn blood from a person with rheumatic fever, or any other inflammatory disease, place a drop of the colourless liquor sanguinis, before it fibnllates, on each of the large slips of glass ; cover one immediately with one of the smaller slips, and the others one after another at inter- vals of thirty or forty seconds: then, on examining them by the microscope, the first will exhibit colourless blood corpuscles in various conditions, and numerous white mole- cules distributed through a more or less copious fibrous network ; and the last will be a tough, coherent, and very elastic membrane, which cannot be broken to pieces nor resolved into * Medical Gazette, Dec. 1840; Jan. and March, 1841. + Medical Gazette, July, 1841 ; and Principles of Medicine, pp. 209, 210.