MICROSCOPE. 351 required for making the slightest adjustment. The axis of the body is never changed in the least degree,—which we have rarely found in rack adjustments, owing to the pressure of the pinion against one side of the bar; and thus an object is always kept in the centre of the field, whatever change made be made in its focal distance by an alteration of the magnifiers. By a little practice, the power of making adjust- ments of extreme minuteness may be obtained, if the bar have been originally filed so true that it works with perfect smoothness in every part. An additional adjustment, which may be made of any required fineness, is provided for, however, by making the square tube or socket itself moveable, and connecting it with a micrometer screw worked by a large milled- head at the bottom of the stem. By turning this screw, the socket, and the bar which it carries, are raised or depressed in any minute degree; and the socket being made to work through stuffing - boxes closely packed with cork, all twisting on its axis by the action of the screw is avoided. On the fineness of the screw the delicacy of the adjustment will of course depend. That which we have employed has forty turns to the inch; and the milled- head being 1£ inch in diameter, or about 4f inches in circumference, a movement of one- fiftieth of its periphery, or something less than -['jthofan inch, will affect the ai m to the amount of ^th of an inch. We should recommend, however, a screw rather finer than this. By dividing a circle on the milled head, and affix- ing an index-point to the bottom of the stem, the amount of motion given may be known to a great nicety, and thus the thickness of a mi- nute object laid upon any surface may be mea- sured. If its upper side be brought exactly into focus, and it be then removed, and the surface on which it has lain be brought into focus by the micrometer screw alone, the num- ber of divisions over which the index has passed will of course indicate the thickness. This me- thod, which was proposed by Mr. Valentine,* answers very well for such objects as the vessels of plants, scales of insects, &c. which can be completely isolated, when a sufficiently high power is employed, so that distinctness can only be obtained at one point. We consider it a great advantage of this kind of adjustment, that it is effected at a considerable distance from the stage, and that the hand is therefore in no danger of deranging the position of ob- jects or apparatus connected with it. The arm which carries the body is attached to the top of the bar by a screw-pin passing through the former, by which it is enabled to traverse from side to side. This movement will often be found extremely useful, both in the examination of different parts of objects which it is desirable not to move, and in chan- ging magnifiers, &c. on the body ; the want of it we consider one of the chief inconveniences in Mr. Ross's form of construction. The arm is jjths of an inch thick, and broad enough at the part farthest from the centre to receive the * Trans, of Soc. of Arts. body, which is not made tapering in the usual manner, but is attached by a screw of l^inch diameter, with a large shoulder above it. By this mode of attachment, and by the massive- ness of the arm itself, all vibration from the top of the bar is prevented ; at least we have not been inconvenienced by it. When the bar is pushed into its socket, so that the arm ap- proaches the stage, (as when high powers are used,) no oscillation can arise from its vibra- tions ; and the socket itself works through an aperture in the stage-plate, to which it is so closely fitted that no oscillation can arise in that point; so that, both in theory and prac- tice, we find the form here proposed unobjec- tionable on this score. It is true that, when the bar is drawn out to its full extent, oscilla- tion may arise; but this is never the case, ex- cept when low powers are being employed, and then we altogether fail to perceive it. In the construction of the body there is nothing worthy of peculiar remark ; and, as we have already de- scribed the various modes of magnifying the object, we shall therefore now pass on to con- sider the best means of illuminating it. The perfect illumination of the object is a matter of the utmost importance, especially when high magnifying powers are being em- ployed. There are many difficult objects which require to be viewed under a great variety of aspects, in order that their true characters may be determined ; and there are not a few whose structure cannot be understood at all, even with the most perfect arrangement of the optical portion of the microscope, unless similar atten- tion be bestowed on the concentration of the light by which they are viewed. We shall, therefore, bestow on this subject more attention than it has ordinarily received. For transparent objects of large size, which are being viewed with low powers, such as sec- tions of wood, wings of insects, &c. we find a concave mirror by far the most simple and, at the same tune, effective means of illumination ; and the optical errors to which it gives rise are not such as to interpose any practical difficulty in its use. It should be, for such a microscope as we have described, of greater size than that ordinarily employed ; three inches may be re- garded as a good diameter. It should be set, by an universal joint, upon a piece of tube fitted to slide stiffly up and down the stem which descends from the stage. In this man- ner its distance from the object may be readily varied ; and the degree of concentration of light effected by it will thus be easily adapted to the character of the object to be viewed. Thus, if it be pushed near the stage, the pencil of con- vergent rays will not be nearly brought to a focus, and a large surface will be illuminated with a moderate light. But if it be drawn nearer the opposite end of its range, the rays will be more concentrated, so that a smaller suiface will be illuminated, but with much greater brightness. By the former adaptation we are enabled to illuminate, with great equa- lity, and by means of the ordinary lamp-flame, an area of three-eighths of an inch in diameter, with sufficient intensity to produce a very bright