OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 846 fact which is remarkable for its uniformity in other parts of the skeleton and in other animals. A separate centre of ossification is developed, a new source of nutrition is conveyed directly to the extremity of the part—a new bone is formed from the end of the spinous process." But even this dilatable explanation is by no means sufficient for the required purpose, for having developed in this way the interspinous bones from the spinal elements of the vertebras, the fin rays themselves are referred to the same source, and thus materials are afforded for com- plicating the endoskeleton ad libitum, upon the simple supposition that when any element be- comes inordinately developed, it can develope other elements to eke it out. Geoffroy adopted another mode of explaining the origin of the supernumerary bones that support the dorsal and anal fins of fishes. Sup- posing the upper and lower vertebral spines (i. e. the neuro-spines and hamio spines) to be each composed of two elements conjoined in the mesial line, he asserts that, instead of re- maining side by side, one half of the spine is removed and placed above the other to form the interspinous bone. Yet even this would by no means get over half the difficulty, for the fin rays themselves remain to be accounted for, and where are elements to be procured for the construction of these ? Moreover, as Cu- vier remarks, it by no means unfrequenlly happens that several interspinous bones belong to a single vertebral spine, a circumstance which is quite incompatible with the supposi- tion that any dismemberment of the spine can account for their presence. Failing, therefore, to find any materials for the construction of the bones we have enume- rated among any known elements of the endo- skeleton, we are compelled to look elsewhere, and shall soon find, by tracing the exoskeleton of Fishes through the different aspects under which it offers itself, abundant means of supply- ing all deficiencies. The scales that usually invest the bodies of ordinary Fishes would certainly appear at first sight to have no relationship whatever with the osseous system, as neither in texture nor mode of growth do they at all resemble bone, being simply composed of layers of epidermis se- creted one after the other until they attain the required thickness. But these epidermic scales, if but very slightly exaggerated, become sus- ceptible of such varieties of form and structure that they often entirely lose their nature, and becoming solidified until they emulate true bone in hardness and compactness of structure, are often converted into weapons of defence or attack of very diversified descriptions; the dense and bone-like armour of the Ostracious, the formidable spines of the Diodon, and even the crystalline tooth-like points tliat stud the skins of Sharks and Rays, forming what is called shagreen, being mere modifications of the same cuticular appendages. Having advanced thus far in tracing the changeable character of the scale of a fish, adapting it to various functions, we are quite prepared to admit other important facts of still greater interest. It is only neces- sary to examine the spines met with upon the back of a common Skate or Tliornback to per- ceive that they are of very different character in different parts of the surface of the body. The minute scale-like points are at times converted into large hooks fixed upon the surface of the skin, which really become formidable defences. On approaching the mouth they become again so much reduced in size as to tepresent an ex- ceedingly fine tessellated pavement, which covers the lips and passes even into the interior of the mouth. On reaching the margins of the upper and lower jaw their appearance again becomes changed; they are increased in size and hardness, being in fact converted into teeth which pave the whole surface of the jaw, covering it with osseous plates, or powerful hooks, or cutting teeth, such as the Shark pos- sesses; but these teeth are still quite uncon- nected with the jaw and may be easily stripped off with the cuticle, of which, indeed, they form a part. Even the tongue itself is covered with similar plates of hard substance, smaller in size indeed, but in every thing comparable to the teeth both in character and mode of growth. Finding that the teeth in their simplest form are merely epidermic structures, nothing would be more easy than to point out a long series of almost insensible gradations through which they become more and more decidedly con- nected with the bones of the endoskeleton, until at length they absolutely become implanted into it, and fixed to the jaw-bones as intimately as if they were really themselves portions of the true osseous skeleton. The ligamentous bonds of union between the teeth and jaw-bones of Lopftius, the soldering together of the teeth, and the numerous bones which, in Fishes, are made to support dental appendages, and the gradual appearance of alveolar depressions in thejaws of the higher lleptilia, are all so many steps of progressive approximation, the interme- diate phases of which the scientific reader will easily supply. These facts therefore satisfactorily prove that, as far as the teeth are concerned at least, the exoskeleton and endoskeleton are so nearly approximated in texture that they ac- tually become appendages one of the other, as the teeth are infixed into the jaw-bones that support them. Having thus convinced ourselves that in the case of the teeth the cuticular and osseous systems become articulated together, or so con- solidated as only to be distinguishable from the microscopic texture that they respectively present, we are prepared with greater confidence to expect similar phenomena in other parts of the body, and to find the exoskeleton and endo- skeleton to a certain extent vicarious in function and interchangeable with each other. No one will deny that the spines of the common Sticklebacks (Gasterosteus), or the bony-looking weapons affixed to the root of the tail of the Sting-ray, are cuticular in their na- ture and mere derivations from the exoskeleton ; yet we have only to advance one step further, and we find spines in every way similar in their nature absolutely articulated by curious and most beautiful moveable joints to different