ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 189 year. The patient died with jaundice and ascites. The liver, a portion of which I pos- sess, presented a fine specimen of granulated cirrhosis; it " was diminished to one-half its natural size, and Mr. Kiernan on injecting it, discovered that a collateral venous circulation had been established by way of the diaphragm." In another case in a woman who had been tapped ninety times, Kiernan upon injecting the liver found that the same kind of collateral circulation had been formed. The circulation through the liver had been impeded by the developement of condensed cellular tissue, and the greater part of the blood of the portal vein had made its way through dilated vessels upon the surface of the organ to the diaphragm, and from thence into the general venous circulation. In this case there were numerous bands of ad- hesion between the liver and diaphragm, and between the intestines and the walls of the abdomen, and these also were traversed by large veins conveying blood from the portal vein into the general venous current. With regard to the pathological nature of the disease many opinions have been enter- tained by different writers. Laennec, dazzled by an ingenious theory deduced from his ob- servations upon the nature and progress of scrofulous tubercle, saw in the mottled and granular section of cirrhosis only a " morbid deposit," a special accidental tissue existing in the two states of crudity and softening. But I quote the words of this author as detailed by Ferrus,* for while he errs in his speculations with regard to the nature of the disease, he draws an excellent picture of its general cha- racters and appearance. " Les cirrhons ex- istent dans l'etat de crudit6 et de ramollisse- ment. Dans le premier de ces etats elles presentent un tissu d'une couleur fauve plus au moins foncee, qui quelquefois tire un peu sur le verdatre; on ne peut s'en faire une meilleure idee qu'en la comparant a celle qu'oH'rent les capsules surrenales chez Fadulte. Ce tissu, quoiquefort consistant, a une sorte de flaccidite que je ne puis mieux comparer qu' a celle de certains fongus, ou d'un cuir mou. Le tissu des cyrrhoses est d'ailleurs compact, assez humide et tres-delie. On n'y distingue aucune trace de fibres, quoiqu'il presente en certains cas des divisions en forme de squames. Les cyrrhoses piennent en se ramollissant une couleur plus brunatre." " M. Laennec admet trois sortes de cyrrhoses: 1">. cyrrhoses en masses; 2°. en plaques; 3°. en kystes. Lorsqu'il existe, dit-il, des cyrrhoses dans le foie, elles forment ordinaire- nient de petites masses dont le volume ne surpasse jamais celui d'un noyau de cerise, et quelquefois egale a peine celui d'un gros grain de millet. Ces masses sont toujours extreme- ment nombreuses, et tout le tissu du foie en est pariseme. Leur petitesse fait que lorsqu'on incise un foie dans lequel il en existe un grand nombre, son tissu parait au premier coup d'ceil homo"cne et d'une couleur jaune fauve. Mais si on examine plus attentivernent le tissu hepa- tique, on s'aperpoit facilement qu'il est rempli * Dictionnaire de Medecine, Art. Foie. d'une innombrable quantity de corpuscules assez semblables, pour l'aspect a ces lobules de graisse durcie et rousseatre que Ton trouve communcment dans le tissu cellulaire sous- cutanc de la cuisse et de la jambe des sujets attaqu6s d'anasarque. Ces petites masses sont quelquefois unies tres-intimement au tissu du foie ; mais assex souvent elles en sont separees par une couche mince de tissu cellulaire qui leur forme une enveloppe tenue, et alors ils se detachent assez facilement. La surface exte- rieuredu foiedevientfletrie,rugueuse,et ratatinee a-peu-pres de la meme maniere qu'une pomme fletrie." Bouillaud* considers this condition of the liver a dissociation of the two natural elements of the organ : " les masses jaunes fauves con- stituant le tissu accidentel, appele cirrhose, ne sont autres chose que les granulations secre- toires se desorganisant graduellement par Terlet de l'obliteration du lacis vasculaire, et de l'obstacle a la circulation hepatique qui en resulte." We have already combatted the ex- istence of two substances, and further remark upon this subject must be quite unnecessary. Andral f sees, in the cirrhosis, atrophy of the red substance and hypertrophy of the yellow substance. Of all modern authors, Cruveilhier approaches nearest to the true condition of the organ, but from his misapprehension of the exact nature of the lobules, even his opinion cannot be accepted without limitation. Cirrho- sis, says this author,J is " atrophie du plus grand nombre des grains glanduleux, et hyper- trophic avec coloration jaune des grains glandu- leux restans." Now cirrhosis is undoubtedly a partial atrophy of the liver with hypertrophy of the cellular structure ; complete atrophy of some of the lobules, partial atrophy of others, and biliary congestion without atrophy or hy- pertrophy of the rest. Those small yellow grains varying in size from a millet-seed to a pea or to a hazel-nut, are not distinct lobules in a variable state of hypertrophy, but small uncongesled patches composed of parts of several adjoining lobules, and having a single or several interlobular spaces for a centre. Hence it is, as we have before shown, thatCru- veilhier§ has observed the " partie centrale de chaque granulation repond au radicule biliare, et consequeminent est souvent teinte en jaune et que la partie excentrique repond a l'element vasculaire et conseqi emment est plus rouge que la partie centrale." d. Softening of the liver may accompany any of the changes resulting from acute inflamma- tion. The degree of softening is very variable, the organ having at one time a simple abnormal degree of friability when pressed by the hand, and at others constituting a pulpy mass scarcely re- tained in its form by the cellular framework of its vessels andGlisson's capsule. Softening may be unaccompanied by any marked change in the bulk of the organ, but is always associated with a variable intensity of venous congestion. Biliary * iYIemoire de la Societe Mtdicale d'Emulation. f Anatomic Patliologiquc, vol. ii. p. 585. % Anatomie Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 568. § Anatomie Pathologique, livraison 12.