LIFE. 155 tegration of its tissues; or it may be preserved in consequence of the absence of those agents which ordinarily excite decomposition. The occasional suspension of vital action from a change in the organism itself, appears usually to result from a general law of periodicity, which affects, more or less, all organised beings, producing the phenomena of sleep, hybernation, &c; but it may also arise from particular causes operating within the system, as in syncope. Each of these cases will now be separately considered. Dormant vitality of seeds, eggs, <$<*•—The condition of organised beings of which we have first to treat—that in which vital action is sus- pended from the absence of the stimuli ne- cessary to maintain it, and vitality never- theless preserved—is manifested in the most remarkable manner by the reproductive germs which are periodically separated from plants and animals, and which are endowed with the power of developing themselves into new indi- viduals when the requisite conditions are sup- plied to them. In the lowest classes of each kingdom, it would appear that these germs are liberated from the parent unprovided with any means for the continuance of their development; and that from the first, therefore, they rely upon the surrounding elements for all the conditions of their active existence. It is beautifully pro- vided that, in proportion to the probable defi- ciency of some of these, should be the tenacity with which the apparently lifeless germs re- tain their vitality. The sporules of the fungi, which can only subsist on decaying organised matter, seem universally diffused through the atmosphere, and ready to vegetate with the most extraordinary rapidity whenever a fitting- nidus is afforded for their development. This, at least, appears the only feasible mode of ex- plaining their appearance in the forms of mould, mildew, &c. on all decaying surfaces; and that there is no improbability in the suppo- sition itself is shown by the estimate of Fries, who states that a single individual of reti- cular ia maxima will emit above 10,000,000 of these germs, so minute as when collected to be scarcely visible to the naked eye, rather re- sembling thin smoke, and so light as to be wafted by every movement of the atmosphere, so that, he remarks, " it is difficult to conceive a place from which they can be excluded." It seems more than probable that in a similar manner is to be explained the appearance of infusorial animalcules in all situations adapted to their existence ; and that their germs are constantly and universally diffused through the air, ready to commence the active exercise of their dormant properties whenever they meet with the stimuli to their development afforded by warmth, moisture, and decomposing organic matter.* We have no means of ascertaining the length of time during which this dormant vi- tality may be preserved. It would be difficult to assign a limit to it, since it is scarcely con- ceivable that any change can occur in the struc- * For an important experiment on this subject reecntly performed by Schultz, sec Kclinburgh Phi- losophical Journal, Oct. 1837. ture of these minute desiccated points which they do not undergo during the first few hours of their aerial residence; and we have no reason to believe that vitality can be de- stroyed without change of structure. With re- gard to the seeds of phanerogamic plants, we have more certain evidence, and this of a very interesting character. It is to be remarked, however, that in them, as in the eggs of higher animals, there is, besides the germ it- self, a reservoir of nutriment supplied by the parent, which enables the germ to continue its development up to the point at which it be- comes fit to maintain its own existence, with- out any other than the ordinary assistance of vital stimuli. The germination of a seed, for example, requires only warmth, moisture, and the access of air, and is further accelerated by the absence of light; and the hatching of an egg is dependent only on a temperature more or less elevated and the presence of air. Hence the necessity for so great a tenacity of vitality as that possessed by the germs of the simpler classes does not exist, and although under favourable circumstances the vitality of seeds may be prolonged for an almost indefinite period, they are more susceptible of the inju- rious influence of external agents, and their fertility is destroyed by changes of condition which would have no effect in the former case ; whilst the eggs of animals appear still less tena- cious of vitality, although in a few instances capable of retaining it for some time, even under considerable disadvantages, as will be presently noticed. The seeds of most plants which inhabit tem- perate climates are adapted to remain dormant during the winter, and may be preserved in dry air and moderate temperature for a consi- derable time. Some of those which had been kept in the Herbarium of Tournefort for up- wards of a century were found to have pre- served their fertility. But with regard to those which are brought from tropical climates there is greater uncertainty, and unless they have been carefully excluded from the contact of air and from variations of temperature, a large pro- portion are usually unproductive. Cases are of no unfrequent occurrence in which ground that has been turned up spontaneously produces plants dissimilar to any in their neighbourhood. There is no doubt that in some of these the seed is conveyed by the wind, and becomes developed in spots which afford congenial soil, in the same manner as the germs of fungi and infusoria. Thus it is commonly ob- served that clover is ready to spring up on soils which have been rendered alkaline by the strewing of wood-ashes, or the burning of weeds ; and it is stated by Professor Graham that after any hill-pasture in Scotland has been laid dry and limed and the surface broken, white clover always makes its appearance. But there are many authentic facts which can only be explained on the supposition that the seeds of the newly-appearing plants have lain for a long period imbedded in the soil, at such a distance from the surface as to prevent the access of air and moisture, and that, retaining their vitality under these circumstances, they