REGIONS OF THE LEG. skin has full opportunity to exert itself, and this it does sometimes to a degree that is re- markable, acting as a sort of ligature upon the back part of the leg. We have seen a case where, by the cicatrization of an old and very extensive ulcer, the lower part of the calf of the leg, viewed in profile, had an appearance as if more than half the entire leg had been cut away.* The most dense and strong part of the integument of the leg is over the inner side of the tibia where this forms the only covering of the bone, while at the upper and back part of the leg the skin is exceedingly thin and deli- cate, and devoid of hairs. We may here re- mark, in illustration of the properties of the integuments of the leg, important in relation to surgery, that the contractile property of the skin is usefully exemplified in amputation, when, should the flap of the integument be more extensive than we desire, even to a great de- gree, we always find that in the progress of the case it contracts so much as to exhibit no re- dundance in the end; in fact that a large quantity of integument, however unsightly, is far less to be dreaded than the opposite defect. It is not our intention here to enter minutely upon the diseases of the parts we are now de- scribing, but we cannot refrain from alluding to a state of disease of the integuments which we have never seen but in the leg, and of which we have met with no account in books. It consists in a soft elastic swelling, generally occupying the entire circumference of the leg, for the lower third or fourth of its length, though often much less. The skin over it is considerably redder than natural, and of a somewhat dark colour. It is not at all tender to the touch, but is exceedingly painful when the foot is down and in exercise; on pressing the finger firmly upon it no pit is left, but the skin is very white until the capillaries fill again, which they do slowly. Should the skin ulce- rate, the sore is very slow in healing, and gene- rally has a brownish unhealthy look, but the state in question often lasts for years without any ulceration occurring. The disease is very indolent, neither increasing nor diminishing in extent for many years. We have not been able to trace it satisfactorily to any cause more than too much standing. All the cases observed by us have occurred in females between the ages of twenty and forty, whose employment kept them very much on foot. It appears to us to consist in a varicose state of the capillaries of the cellular tissue and inner side of the cutis. No treatment that we have employed has had anything more than a temporary effect. Pres- sure, as long as it is continued, relieves it; but all the morbid symptoms return upon the remedy being omitted. Immediately under the skin lies the cellular tissue, which is a part of the general cellular investment of the body, and is here known as the superficial fascia of the leg. It is gene- rally pretty thick, and is easily dissected back in amputations. Placed between two solid layers, the aponeurosis and skin, it easily in- * See article Cicatrix, flames and may become the seat of extensive inflammation and abscess. When the inflam- mation has terminated in gangrene, the slough- ing process in this cellular tissue is very rapid and often very uncontroulable ; and where this destruction has occurred to considerable ex- tent, in the after process of reparation the new cellular web is so short, close, and inelastic, as to materially impede the freedom of movement in the limb. When pus has been formed, the facility which the loose texture of the super- ficial fascia offers for its spreading in all direc- tions, points out the necessity for early and free incisions through the integuments ; and even before this stage of the inflammation, and while it is in its most active state, the same bold practice offers us the best means of arresting its progress. This cellular layer is the seat of the effusion in phlegmonous erysipelas, anasarca, phlegmasia dolens, and partially so in ele- phantiasis. The distension which this tissue and the integument over it undergo in the dis- eases just mentioned, is occasionally enormous, and affords a striking contrast between the elastic properties of the natural and adventitious structures. When anasarca distends a leg upon which an old cicatrix exists, the newly formed cellular web of this part is so little elastic and so little admits the fluid into its cells, that a considerable depression is seen here in the midst of the general swelling. Imbedded in this superficial fascia we find a number of veins which are various in size, none very large in the natural state, numerous, and here possessed of more surgical interest and importance than in any other superficial region of the body. They are principally ar- ranged in two sets; one commencing about the inner ankle, and running along the inner side of the calf, terminates just below the knee by one trunk called the internal or major saphena. The other set form the saphena minor, by coming from the outer ankle, along the outer and back part of the leg, and termi- nating in the popliteal vein in the middle of the ham. This vein is superficial only in the lower two-thirds of the leg; after this, it passes through the layers of the aponeurosis, and runs under it till its termination. This is the more ordinary course of them, but no part of the circulating system is more various than these superficial veins in their divisions and arrange- ment. These veins, by becoming varicose, frequently occasion great suffering to the pa- tient, and annoyance to the surgeon, by the difficulty of their cure. The saphena major is more liable to this state of disease than the minor; indeed few persons whose habits are to be much in the erect posture appear to attain middle age without being more or less troubled by it. The deeper seated veins, which accompany the arteries, lie imbedded among the muscles, and from them receive considerable passive support, in sustaining the weight of the column of blood above them, and still more in an active sense, when, in contracting, the muscles swell and press against their sides, and thus assist in forcing onwards their contents, But these