1002 PISCES. Fishes is moved by six muscles analogous to those met with in other Vertebrata, and to which similar names are applicable. The recti muscles (Jig. 532, 1, 2, 3, 4) are four in number, arising from the back of the orbit near the margin of the optic groove, and run- ning forward to be attached in the usual manner to the sclerotic coat of the eye. The obliqui (fig. 532, a, b) both take their origin from the anterior part of the walls of the orbit, and pass in a transverse direction towards the eyeball, into which they are inserted, one on its superior, the other on its inferior aspect. There is no troch- lear apparatus in connection with the superior oblique, as is the case in quadrupeds, but, like the inferior, it passes straight to its destination. The suspensory or choanoid muscle met with in Mammalia, in Fishes is totally wanting. In the Sharks the muscles moving the eye- ball are of very great strength, and, moreover, their efficiency is rendered more perfect by me- chanical contrivances that are not met with in the ordinary Fishes. In the latter the eye is simply supported in the orbit by a quantity of loose cellulosity filled with a gelatinous or fatty semifluid substance, admirably adapted to faci- litate the movements of the eye; but in the plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes the cartilagi- nous pedicle is provided, already mentioned, which, taking its origin from the back of the orbit between the origins of the recti muscles, runs forward to be moveably articulated, fre- quently by means of a very complete ball- and-socket joint enclosed in a capsular liga- ment, to the back of the selerotic, so as to form a pivot upon which the eye turns. In the attachment of the recti and oblique mus- cles to the eye-ball an additional piece of me- chanism is observable, each of these muscles being inserted into a prominent cartilaginous tubercle, which projects from the external sur- face of the sclerotic, and thus enables the muscle to act with greater advantage. In the generality of Fishes there are no eye- lids, the external tegument passing on to the front of the eye-ball without forming any fold or duplicature to which such a title is appli- cable; there are, however, exceptions to this arrangement which must not be passed over unnoticed. Thus, in the Mackarel (Scomber Scombrus), the eye is partially defended by two vertical folds of the common integument, and in the Herring (Clupea Harengus) there is a similar provision for the defence of the eye-ball and orbit.* The vertical folds are unprovided with any muscular structure for their move- ment, and are consequently transparent so as not to interfere with vision when the front of the eye is brought beneath them. It is worthy of observation that, where these folds decussate one another at their inferior extremities, the an- terior one overlaps the posterior, so slight an impediment to progressive motion as the con- trary position would have occasioned having thus been foreseen and avoided. In the Sharks and Sturgeons the integument * Vide Catalogue, Mus. Coll. Surgeons, Lond. vol. iii. p. 171. forms a deep circular fold around the front of the eye, which, although motionless, is evidently of a palpebral character. A secreting membruna conjunctiva is reflected deeply between this cir- cular fold and the globe of the eye, of which it covers the anterior half. In the Sharks* there is likewise a third eyelid, which is moveable; this is placed at the inferior and internal or nasal side of the orbit, and is moved over the front of the eye in a direction upwards and out- wards by means of a strong round muscle (nic- titator) which arises from the upper and poste- rior or temporal side of the orbit, and descends obliquely to be inserted into the lower and outer margin of the third eye-lid; passing in this course first through a muscular trochlea, and then through a ligamento-cartilaginous loop. The trochlear muscle is not, however, exclusively subservient to the action of the nictitator, but has an insertion in the upper part of the palpebral fold, which it depresses simultaneously with the raising of the third eyelid, a slight external groove above the upper eyelid indicating the extent of motion allowed. The lacrymal apparatus is totally wanting in the whole race of Fises, no trace of lacrymal glands or punctse lacrymalia; being ever distin- guishable ; neither could a lacrymal secretion be needed in animals whose eyes are perpetu- ally bathed by the water in which they live. Auditory apparatus.—The organ of hearing in Fishes undergoes a gradual improvement in its structure as we advance from the lower to the more highly organized genera, presenting almost every intermediate gradation between the least complex form, in which it consists of the vesti- bule alone, without semicircular canals or other appendages, approximating in simplicity the ear of a Cuttle-fish (vide art. Cephalopoda), to the most complete icthyic type of the auditory apparatus, met with in the Sharks and Sturgeons. It is in the Lampreys (Petromyzon) that the auditory organ exists in its humblest state of developemeiil.f In these Fishes the ear is enclosed in a simple cartilaginous capsule of an elliptical figure, situated on each side of the skull external to the posterior cranial cartilages. The walls of these capsules are thin, and the cavity which they contain of an ovoid shape. In that side of each cartilaginous capsule (vestibulum cartilagineum, Weber,) which is nearest the cranium, are two openings, the inferior, which is the larger, being of an oval shape closed with a firm and elastic membrane, while the superior is extremely small, giving transit to the auditory nerve as it passes into the vestibule. With the exception of these apertures, which open into the cavity of the cranium, the cartilaginous capsule is closed on all sides. The whole of the elliptical cavity of the cartilaginous capsule is filled by a pellucid membranous sac (vestibulum membranaceum) * Catalogue, Mus. Coll. Surgeons, Lond. prep. 1762. i Vide Tract, de Aure animalium aquatilium, auctore Ernesto Henrico Webcro. Lipsisc, 1820. 4to.