NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 172 vessels, and in those of the excreting ducts and gall-bladder; the lobules were coloured with the blue injection ; the red was confined to their circumference, and appeared in points only. This experiment was varied by inject- ing the portal vein and its branches as far only as the entrance of the latter into the lobules, the lobules thus remaining uninjected. The injection propelled through the arteries had now free access to the uninjected lobules, and no exit by the injected portal vein; and the artery having no communication with the he- patic veins, the injection had no exit by these vessels: the lobules however were not better injected in this than in the preceding experi- ments. From these experiments I conclude, that the secreting part of the liver" " is supplied with arterial blood for nutrition only. As all the branches of the artery of which we can ascertain the termination, end in branches of the portal vein, it is probable that the lobular arteries terminate in the lobular venous plex- uses formed by that vein, and not in the intra- lobular branches of the hepatic veins, which cannot be injected from the artery." Miiller, who published upon this subject previously to the discoveries of Kiernan, and was therefore not aware of the exact distribution of the ves- sels, was deceived by this free communication between the hepatic artery and portal vein. He conceived, with the older anatomists, that the arterial blood was mixed with the venous blood of the vena porta?, in a capillary network, " vascula ultima reticulata," common to the three bloodvessels of the liver, the hepatic ar- tery, portal vein and hepatic veins. Observing, moreover, in the injected preparations of Lie- berkuhn,* that the " vascula ultima reticulata," the lobular venous plexus of Kiernan, appeared as well filled when the injected fluid was forced into the hepatic artery, as when intro- duced through the portal or hepatic vein, he at once decided that the artery must pour its blood directly into this plexus. Hence he writes, " Vascula ultima reticulata sanguinem tarn ab arteriis quam a vena portarum accipere, ve- nisque hepaticis reddere, ex hisce argumentis concludo: Post injectionem in arteriam hepa- ticam non minus quam in venam portarum aut venas hepaticas factam, eadem communia vas- culorum minimorum retia replentur, quod ex injectionibus exsiccatis Lieberkuhnianis, Bero- lini asservatis, facile quisquis sibi persuadebit." Having recourse himself to an extremely im- perfect experiment, the injection of water into the hepatic artery, and finding that this fluid returned by the portal vein, and possibly by the hepatic vein, he became convinced of the com- munications of all the vessels in the " vascula ultima reticulata," and added another argument to the injections of Lieberkuhn in favour of his opinion; for he says, " Injecti liquores co- * Having, through the kindness of Mr. Liston, had an opportunity of examining with the micro- scope some of the injections of Lieberkuhn of dif- ferent tissues, I can bear testimony to their beauty and wonderful minuteness, and can fully appre- ciate the deservedly high estimation in which they are held among the physiologists of Germany. lorati ex alio vasorum ordine facile in alium transeunt, qualis frequens Halleri veterumque, Walteri, denique et Rudolphi cel. extat expe- rientia. Ipse equidem transitum aquae lim- pidas et coloratae saepius observari." Now with regard to the injections of Lieberkuhn, I can only repeat with Kiernan, that if the lobular venous plexus or " vascula ultima reticulata" were filled, actually, from the artery, the only route which the injection could have taken must have been through the capillaries of the excretory ducts and vasa vasorum, and then through the portal vein. But with regard to the water experiment, I am quite satisfied of its utter inadequacy to elucidate so delicate a point as that under discussion. In my own experiments, made with a view of assuring my- self of the nature of these plexuses, I have not been content with my injection unless I could distinctly trace with the aid of the microscope each capillary vessel from the interlobular vein to the intralobular vein, and this I have never failed to do in a successful injection from the portal vein; or in the opposite course when the hepatic veins have been filled. But in the most successful injection from the artery, when the capsular arteries have been beautifully filled, I have never observed more than a few red points in the circumference of the lobules. There is, however, in the consideration of this question, one circumstance which appears to have been altogether overlooked by Miiller, but which seems to me to be fatal to the opinion which he entertains with regard to the distribu- tion of the arterial blood. The ducts are abun- dantly supplied with blood from the arteries ; indeed to so great an extent, that in a well- injected liver their coats appear to consist almost wholly of the ramifications of minute vessels. Now if the aggregate of the surface formed by the ducts, which is thus covered with vessels supplied from the artery, be considered, it must be evident that very little can be left for the " vascula ultima reticulata." And if con- jointly with this fact, the difficulty of injecting the lobules from the artery be considered, it must be admitted that Miiller carries his dogma somewhat too far, in asserting without limita- tion " that the arterial blood of the hepatic artery and the venous blood of the porta be- come mixed in the minute vessels of the liver." The hepatic veins return the whole of the ve- nous blood from the liver to the general venous circulation. They commence in the centre of each lobule by means of a small vein, the intralobular, which collects the blood after its circulation through the lobular venous plexus. The intralobular veins pour their current into the sublobular veins, and these latter unite to form the hepatic trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. The hepatic differ from the portal veins in being more immediately in con- tact, and more closely connected with the sub- stance of the lobules. Thus the intralobular veins are embedded in the substance of each lobule, and the sublobular inclosed in canals formed by the bases of the lobules, and there- fore by that part which is uninvested by the lobular capsule. The hepatic trunks differ