OPTIC NERVES. 775 after making their way to the eye-ball, and perforating the sclerotic, terminate in the retina. These filaments are arranged at their origin in a double linear series, each series streaming forth from one of the opposite margins of the ganglion. After becoming free of the ganglion the filaments of each series approach those of the other series, and a most perfect and regular interlacement of the two sets ensues ; so com- pletely do they decussate that either half of the retina is formed by filaments which spring from the opposite edge of the ganglion ; those filaments which shoot out from the anterior margin of that body terminating in, and actu- ally forming, the posterior moiety of the retina, and vice versa. The reciprocal interlacement of these nervous filaments reminds one of the manner in which the two series of threads in a weaver's loom (technically called the woof and the warp), cross each other; this illustration is exact, for the interlacement of the threads in the one case is not more perfect or regular than that of the nervous filaments in the other. The writer is indebted to his colleague, Dr. Power, for a knowledge of this curious arrange- ment, which was discovered by that gentleman while inspecting a preparation of the nervous system in the loligo made by the writer, and which still exists in the Museum of the Rich- mond Hospital School, Dublin. Subsequent dissections have proved satisfac- torily that the decussation in question occurs invariably in the loligo, and that in the octopus, which exhibits close affinity to the loligo, the same arrangement prevails. In the sepia officinalis the optic ganglion is renifbrm, and its filaments come off in a double series, as in the loligo; the majority of the filaments decus- sate after the same manner as that above de- scribed in the other two species, but some of the extreme filaments of each series pass in a direct course to the retina, without exhibiting any de- cussation. The peculiar disposition of the optic filaments in these cephalopods was unnoticed until the publication of Dr. Power's paper on the sub- ject in the "Dublin Journal of Medical Science," ■—an omission the more surprising, as accurate descriptions of the eye in this class of animals have appeared from some of the ablest ana- tomists. Swammerdam long ago described and de- lineated the optic ganglion of the sepia offici- nalis, but without making any mention of the intercrossing of the filaments which emanate from that body. Cuvier, in his memoir on the Mollusca, describes the eye of the poulpe (octopus) with great accuracy, but makes no allusion to the decussation in question ; and in the most recent descriptions of the cephalopods the same omission occurs. The above discovery seemed at first likely to afford an explanation of the problem so difficult of solution, namely, the well-known fact, that objects appear erect to a spectator although their images on the retina are inverted ; and for some highly ingenious observations tending to elucidate this obscure question, the reader is referred to the paper by Dr. Power, already quoted ; it may be stated, however, that many difficulties remain to be removed before such an explanation can be received, for 1. The filaments of the optic nerve of the loligo have not as yet been traced back to the central masses of the nervous system, and there can therefore be no certainty that they preserve in the first part of their course the same relative positions which they are known to maintain in the interval between the optic ganglion and point of decussation. 2. In vision the object is known to be wholly reversed in the image on the retina; for ex- ample, that which is above in the object is below in the image, and vice versa.; and that which is to the right in the object is to the left in the image, and vice versa; now, although the decussation in question might possibly explain the correct appreciation of an object whose image is reversed in one. particular direction (say from above downwards), it never can fully explain the correct impression made by an object of which the image is reversed in all directions simultaneously. 3. In order that this explanation may apply to human vision, the same interlacement of filaments must first be demonstrated in the optic nerve of man, a task which has not as yet been accomplished. Optic nerves of the compound eyes of Insects. These nerves are excessively large and appear proportional to the size of the organs of vision in the Insect. Each nerve on arriving at the eye swells out into a bulb, which is convex and varies con- siderably in dimensions in different species; this bulb in general represents a segment of a sphere, and from its surface nervous filaments in immense numbers arise and diverge like the radii of a circle. Several thousand of these filaments have been counted in a single nerve ; each of them is connected by its distal extremity to the apex of a small conical transparent body interposed between the filament and the cor- responding facet of the cornea, but the most striking peculiarity of the nerve is found in the perfect isolation of each of these filaments by the interposition of pigment. The pigment is variable in colour, being sometimes light, at others dark; it may be nearly black, dark violet, dark blue, purple, brown, brownish yellow, light yellow, or green, and sometimes several layers of different colours lie one over the other; the pigment extends from the bulb of the nerve to the cornea ; it sur- rounds each filament and separates it com- pletely from adjacent filaments. The effect of this disposition is to isolate the rays of light incident on each filament, and to prevent the transmission of all rays except such as fall in the direction of the axis of the filaments ; since all oblique rays must of neces- sity impinge upon the colouring matter and be in consequence absorbed. The reader is referred to the article Insecta for further details concerning the optic nerve in these animals.