992 PISCES. tion at the opposite side of the vascular circle. The branches which afterwards unite to form the single pulmonary artery on each sfde are given off from near the termination of the second and third pairs of the primitive aortic trunk, which thus combine the functions of both systemic and pulmonary arteries. The pulmonary artery, formed by the union of the branches from the second and third branchial arteries, descends between the vena cava (fig. 525, e) in front, and the left branch of the vena pulmonalis (f) behind to the interspace to the lungs; here it distributes branches to the anterior lobes, and then divides; each division extends along the mesial side of its correspond- ing lung to the extremity. The blood distri- buted by the capillaries of this artery over the cells of the lung is collected into a vein (n) which returns along the lateral or outer margin of the lung as far as the commencement of the lobulated part; here it crosses obliquely the anterior surface of the lung and unites with its fellow. The common pulmonary vein runs parallel with and behind the vena cava for a few lines, then obliquely pierces the pericar- dium, and enters the sinus formed by the ex- pansion of the vena cava, and continues attached to the parietes of that sinus till it reaches the auriculo-ventricular aperture, where it termi- nates close behind the cartilaginous knob before mentioned.* Portal system of veins.—All the blood de- rived from the stomach, from the intestines, and from the spleen, is collected into one or sometimes into several trunks, which convey it into the liver for the elaboration of bile pre- cisely as in other races of Vertebrata. In some genera, however, more especially the Cypri- nidte, the lobes of the liver are so intervolved with the intestinal folds, that the venous blood from the intestines enters the liver through innumerable small branches, none of which are of sufficient size to be regarded as a main trunk of the portal vein. Rathke,f indeed, observes, in relation to this subject, that the vena porta? of Fishes exhibits a kind of tran- sition in its arrangement, a sort of tendency to perfection indicated by progressive concentra- tion of the venous trunks according to the fol- lowing scale:—As an improvement upon the portal system of the Ciprinida?, in Cottus Scor- pio all the veins bringing the blood from the abdominal viscera form three principal trunks, which enter the liver separately. In Cobitis fossilis most of these veins are found united into two trunks, which penetrate the liver sepa- rately ; but besides these there are some strag- gling branches which keep themselves inde- pendent of the two great veins. In the Blenny and the Pike there are only two portal trunks. In the Pump-fish, the Sliad, &c, the two trunks are united into one; but there are still small veins which run isolatedly into the sub- stance of the liver; and lastly, in the Eel, the Perch, &c, there is only one vena portae, as in the most highly organized vertebrate animals. * See Professor Owen's paper, ubi supra, t Annates des Sciences Nat. torn. ix. p. 170. There is a remarkable circumstance connected with the great venous trunk above alluded to which accompanies the spinal cord lodged in the superior vertebral canal, for this vein, al- though it receives a good proportion of the blood derived from the muscles of the upper part of the trunk, does not empty itself into the venous sinus of the heart, and, from the circum- stance of its giving off numerous large branches to the substance of the kidney, has been re- garded as forming a renal portal system, similar t<$ that described by Jacobson as existing in Birds. It must, however, be observed that this superior vein communicates very freely with the inferior vein, which indubitably represents the vena cava inferior, and consequently the renal branches may be derived from, and not distri- buted to, the kidney. Lutcrul system of vessels.-—Dr. Marshall Hall discovered some years ago a pulsating cavity or heart situated near the caudal extre- mity of the vertebral column of the Eel, the con- tractions of which were found to be quite inde- pendent of the pulsations of the branchial heart, this organ beating 160 times in a minute, while the pulses of the branchial heart were only 60. This structure, the existence of which only was pointed out by Dr. Marshall Hall, has since been carefully investigated by M. Hyrtl,* and the following is the result of that gentle- man's explorations. The organ in question is easily seen by stretching out the tail of an Eel upon a piece of glass, to which it readily ad- heres owing to the viscid secretion furnished by the skin. Its pulsations are very lively, and it seems surrounded by a transparent areola, which appeared to M. Hyrtl to consist of two sacs. The disorganization of the spinal marrow by means of a wire had no effect upon the number of its pulsations, and even when the branchial heart was tied or the animal cut in two, the caudal heart continued to beat for five or six minutes. The genera in which the caudal heart and the apparatus connected with it were examined, were Aceipenser, Salmo, Perca, Abramis Peuciscus, Gadus, Gobio, Silurus, Eso.r, Cyprinus, Zeus, Pophius, and several others, so that doubtless the system under consideration is common to the whole class of Fishes. Brain.—The encephalon of Fishes is remark- able for its diminutive size in proportion to the dimensions of the animal, and also with rela- tion to the nerves which are derived from it; in fact it occupies but a very small portion of the cavity of the cranium, the wide interval exist- ing between its surface and the dura mater that lines the cranial parietes being filled up with loose cellulosity filled with fluid, and some- times containing abundance of oil, or in certain instances, as for example in the Sturgeon and Tunny, of a compact and fatty substance. It has been remarked that this interval be- tween the cranium and the surface of the brain is much less in young subjects than in adults—a * Arehiv. fur Anat. Phys. und Wissenschaftliche Medecin herausgegeben von J. Muller. 1843. p. 124.