910 PENIS. The class Insecta is dioecious, and an intro- mittent organ is a common character throughout the entire race. In some insects, as in Aphis, the penis is double, and in the greater number it is associated with special organs, termed ctaspers, which assist in the impregnating act. The greater number of molluscous animals are inhabitants of the deep, and amongst them considerable diversity, as respects mode of generation, exists. Some are hermaphrodite in organisation, and self impregnating; others are hermaphrodite and mutually impregnating; a considerable proportion are dioecious, the male and female apparatus being on different individuals, and the impregnating fluid being conveyed by the medium in which they live from the male to the female animal; while some few are dioecious and impregnate by mutual concurrence. The air-breathers, or Pulmonary Mollusca, are all hermaphrodite and impregnate by reciprocal coitus. The two last alone of the preceding modes of impregna- tion are those in which a true intromittent organ is required; hence, although rudiments of a penis may be discovered in many Mollusca, it is only in the mutually impregnating herma- phrodites and in the concurring dicecia that it attains a size sufficiently bulky to render it an important character. Thus in the class Tuni- cata, which for the most part comprises self- impregnating hermaphrodites, no intromittent organ has been described. In the inhabitants of bivalve shells, which are either self-impreg- nating hermaphrodites, as the Oyster, or medi- ately impregnating dicecia, as the fresh-water Mussel, Anodonta, there is no penis. The marine Gasteropoda are dioecious; some, as the Patella, impregnating their females through the medium of the sea water by which they are surrounded, and others, including the whole of the Pectinibranchiata, impregnating imme- diately, being provided with a large penis for that purpose. In the genus Trochus the vas deferens terminates at the root of the penis, and the latter is grooved ; and in Carniaria the intromittent organ is bifid as well as grooved. In the Pulmonary Gasteropoda, as the snails and slugs, the generative organization is her- maphrodite, impregnation being reciprocal, and the penis of very large size. Among En- cephalous Mollusca, as in Pteropoda, the orga- nisation is also hermaphrodite, and the penis of large size. In Cephalopoda, the highest class of molluscous animals, the generative structure is dioecious, but the penis is not intromittent. The penis in Sepia and Octapus is short and rudimentary, and pierced by a canal for the transmission of the seminal se- cretion ; but in the hooked Calamary the organ is simply grooved along its under part. In passing from the higher invertebrata to the class of Fishes we meet with a degradation of organization as regards the generative system. The penis, which we have seen to be properly formed for intromission in several of the inver- tebrate classes, is reduced to a mere papilla on the surface of the cloaca in fishes. In the Viviparous Blenny, however, in which interna! impregnation takes place, the penis is larger in size, and is probably increased in length during coitus by eversion of the mucous lining of the vas deferens. In some of the higher cartilagi- nous Fishes it is interesting to remark that the rudimentary state of the penis is compensated for by the developement of an apparatus which seems intended to secure the contact of the cloacae for an appreciable time. This apparatus consists of a pair of clasping organs, a provi- sion to which we have already had occasion to advert when speaking of the generative organs of insects. In Amphibia, as in Fishes, impregnation is effected by means of a close approximation, and in most instances by contact of the cloacae. There is no penis, but as a substitute for this organ the male animal is possessed of an orga- nisation fitted to maintain an embrace for a considerable period. The penis of the Ophidian group of Reptiles is a true intromittent oigan, and remarkable for the peculiarity of its structure. It consists of two ccecal processes, developed from the cloaca at its posterior part, and extending back into a cavity prolonged for a short distance towards the tail. These coeca are lined by a horny pa- pillated epithelium; they are invested with a moderately thick layer of erectile tissue, and have proper muscles attached to their extre- mity. When the animal is excited by the vene- real orgasm the turgescence of the erectile tissue causes the eversion of the cceca and their pro- trusion through the aperture of the cloaca. Restored to the state of repose, they are re- tracted by their muscles, and drawn back into their original position. In the Rattlesnake a singular modification of the intromittent organ occurs, in the bifid termination of each of the cceca. We cannot view the peculiarity of struc- ture exhibited by Ophidia, without recalling to mind the similarly inverted disposition of the intromittent organ, which we have already seen among the Invertebrata, namely, in Arachnida. The Lacertine Sauria are possessed of an in- verted intromittent organ, similar to that of Ophidia. In the Crocodile, however, the penis is no longer an inverted ccecal pouch; it is grooved along its under part, attached by two crura to the pubic bones, and furnished with a rudimentary glans at its extremity. But even in the Crocodile there exists a peculiarity of structure which allies the family with the lacer- tine Sauria and Ophidia. The structure to which I allude, is a canal which is prolonged from the peritoneal cavity for a short distance into the substance of the penis, and there ter- minates by a ccecal extremity. In Chelonia, the same kind of intromittent organ occurs as is found in Crocodiles,a grooved penis contained within the vestibule of the cloaca, attached to the pubic bones, and hol- lowed by one or more peritoneal canals. An important difference, however, is met with, when we compare the two groups of Chelonia, the marine and the land tortoises. In the former, scarcely any obstruction to impregnation results from the covering of the animal; the penis is consequently small. But in the land tortoise, where the shell extends beyond the limit of the