LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 209 great variety of opinion with respect to the na- ture of its tissue. Breschet and many other anatomists describe this tunic as resembling the cellular coat of the bloodvessels, and are under the impression that the lymphatics are altogether deficient in that which is analogous to the middle or fibrous coat of the arteries and veins. Mascagni and Rudophi have not been able to detect muscular fibres in it. Cruveilhier conceives it to be composed of the tissu jaune elastique, or tissu dartoide. Schreger thinks he has seen circular muscular fibres in the thoracic duct of man and of large animals, and Sheldon states that he has distinctly seen muscular fibres in the thoracic duct of the horse. By placing a portion of the thoracic duct or large lymphatic laid open with the lining membrane uppermost, on a piece of glass, and by scra- ping off the internal membrane, the fibrous tunic will be exposed ; if it be now moistened with a drop of water, and a piece of talc placed over it, it may be readily examined under the microscope. I have several times examined portions of the thoracic duct and of the larger lymphatics taken from the horse, and from the human subject, and have invariably found the tunic exposed on removing the lining mem- brane, to be composed of fibres passing princi- pally in the longitudinal direction ; these fibres are uniform and cylindrical, and resemble in these respects the organic muscular fibre as de- scribed by Schwann ; they lie for the most part parallel with each other, and are occasionally seen to form a large fasciculus, somewhat analo- gous to the longitudinal muscular bands of the large intestine. These fibres measure from l-5000th to l-6000th of an inch in diameter, and present at intervals, a sudden zigzag inflec- tion ; several fibres collected together into a sort of primitive fasciculus are bent together at the same points. These abrupt deviations from the straight line do not occur at equidistant points : the intervals between them differ greatly ; they average l-400th of an inch in length. Under the lining membrane some few fibres may be distinguished taking a transverse course, others may be seen in an oblique direc- tion, but the great majority are arranged longi- tudinally. The primitive fibre of cellular tissue is freely mixed with the peculiar fibres just described. Tire physiological fact that the lymphatics have the power of contracting and emptying themselves of their contents, has not been disputed ; but with respect to the nature and form of the fibre in virtue of which they possess this faculty, there has been and still exists great uncertainty. No one can have ex- amined the lacteal or lymphatic vessels in a recently killed animal without having observed the rapidity with which this system will empty itself of the fluid it contains ; and if the trunk of the system be ligatured, it will be found that this power remains for an hour or more after death, as may be proved by puncturing the duct within this period below the ligature, or by puncturing a distended lymphatic, which will be instantly evacuated of its contents, and will refill again and again when pressure is made below the orifice. Li/mph hearts.— I must not here omit to al- VOL. III. lude to the pulsatile sacs or hearts belonging to the lymphatic system, discovered by Muller in frogs, toads, salamanders, and lizards, and by Panizza in serpents. In frogs, Muller describes two pairs, one situated just under the skin in the ischiadic region, the other more deeply seated over the third cervical vertebra. Their pulsations he describes as about 60 in a minute and not synchronous with those of the heart. The lower pair propel the lymph into the ischiadic vein ; the upper, into the internal jugular* I have seen these transparent pul- sating bodies in the frog, where they maybe easily exposed by removing the skin from either side of the rudimentary tail, but have not. examined them sufficiently to pass any opi- nion upon them. External to the fibrous tunic is situated a delicate and loose cellular tissue, which per- forms the same offices for the lymphatic, which the cellular tunic does for the artery and vein, viz. it conveys to it the vasa vasorum for its nu- trition, and connects it to the surrounding tis- sues. The supply of nerve to the lymphatic has not hitherto been detected ; there can how- ever be no doubt but that it possesses its proper degree of sensibility, and its contractile power is in all probability regulated by nerve. Fig. 47. a and />, lymphatics laid open longitudinally to shea' the arrangement of the valves in their interiors. (After Breschet.) The valves of the lymphatics resemble in their mode of formation and in their appear- ance the same structures in the veins ; they are however more frequent and more universal in the lymphatic system ; indeed, in the more per- fect animals they are found every where except in the incipient networks of this system. It has already been stated that in fishes and in some amphibious animals the lymphatic system is either entirely deficient in valves, or is only supplied with them in a partially developed state. The valve is composed of two semi- lunar flaps, so arranged that the reflux of the fluid within, forces them away from the sides of the vessel towards its centre, where the two flaps meet and completely close it, while the fluid passing in its proper direction * Professor Weber has described one of these hearts in a large serpent, the pithpn bivitatus. It measured nine lines in length, and four in breadth ; it had an external cellular, a middle muscular, and an internal serous tunic. See Phil. Trans 1833, Muller's Archiv. for 1835, and Valentin's Reper- torium, I5d. 1, p. 294. [Muller has subsequently described similar lymphatic hearts in the Chclonkm Reptiles. Archiv. 1840, p. 1-4.—Ed.] I>