MARSUPIAL! A. 313 lateral and posterior part of the penis, until it is inserted with the opposite muscle at the base of the glans. In the Opossum and those Marsupials which, having a bifid glans, enjoy, as it were, a double coitus, there is a levator penis (f, f, fig. 136), which is not present in the Kangaroo. Each portion of this muscle takes its origin from the fascia covering the crus penis, con- verges towards its fellow above the dorsum penis, diminishing as it converges, and termi- nates in a common tendon inserted into the upper part of the base of the glans. There is another powerful muscle which, though not immediately attached to the penis, must exert, in all Marsupials, so important an influence upon its erection as to merit notice here. This is the external sphincter ani, or more properly ' sphincter cloacae :' it is an inch and a half in breadth in the Kangaroo and half an inch in thickness; from the back of the termination of the rectum it passes over the anal glands and sides of the base of the penis, inclosing the two bulbs with Cowper's glands and their muscles, and terminates anteriorly in a strong fascia above the dorsum penis, so as to compress against that part the venae dor- sales. This adjustment and function of the great sphincter did not escape the observation of Cowper. Speaking of the erectores penis of the Opossum, he says, " the muscles of the cavernous bodies of the penis of this creature, having no connexion with the os pubis, cannot apply the dorsum penis to the last-named bone and compress the vein of the penis, whereby to retard the refluent blood and cause an erec- tion, as we have observed in other creatures ; but some large veins of the penis here take a different course, and pass through the middle parts of the bulb (crus), and are only liable to the compression made by the intumescence of the muscles (c c) that inclose them. But the chief agent in continuing the erection of the penis in this animal is the sphincter muscle of its anus, or rather cloaca; and not only the sphincter muscle of the cloaca of the male Opossum, but that of the female also, closely embraces the penis in coition, and effectually retards the refluent blood from its corpora caver- nosa, by compressing the veins of the penis."* The penis is bent upon itself in a sigmoid form when retracted ; with the glans concealed just within the cloacal aperture, from which it emerges, as in the Ovipara, when the penis is turgid and erect. Female, organs.—These consist of two ovaries, two oviducts or fallopian tubes, two uteri, two vagina?, an uro-genital canal, a clitoris, mam- mary organs, and marsupial pouch. The ovaries are small and simple in the uniparous Kangaroos; tuberculate and rela- tively larger in the multiparous Opossums; but the largest size and most complicated form of these essential organs which I have met with in the Marsupial order were pre- sented by the Wombat (jig. 137). The * Phil. Trans, vol. xxiv. 1704, p. 1584. ovaria are represented of their natural size in fig. 138, a a', in the great Kangaroo, where they present an oval form and a smooth unbroken exterior, except after impregnation, when a large corpus luteum projects from the surface, as at a. The ovaria are not inclosed by a cap- sular duplication of the peritoneum, but are lodged within the expanded orifice of the ovi- duct, or 'pavilion,' near the upper or anterior extremities of its two principal lobes or pro- cesses. These are of considerable extent, and their internal surface, which is highly vas- cular, is beset with rugae and papillae. In the Dasyures and Petaurists the ovaries are elliptical, subcompressed, and smooth. In the Opossum the ovarium consists of a lax stroma remarkable for the number of ovisacs imbedded in it, the largest of which are the most super- ficial, and give rise to the tubercular projections on the surface of the ovary. In the Wombat (fig. 137) each ovary, be- sides being lodged in the pavilion, as in the Kangaroo, is inclosed with the pavilion in a Fig. 137. f Ovarium and pavilion, Wombat. Natural sixe. peritoneal capsule. In the unimpregnate< female examined by me, the ovaries were si', times as large as in the Kangaroo, and pre- sented a well-marked botryoidal form, resem- bling the ovarium of the bird. Numerous ovi- sacs in different stages of growth projected from the surface, the largest presenting a diameter of eight lines (fig. 137, ay, the structure of these ovisacs, the character of the stroma in which they are imbedded, and the dense albugineous tunic by which they are inclosed, bespeak the strictly mammalian type of the ovaria of the Phascolo- mys as of every other genus of Marsupial; but the affinity of the Wombat to the Rodent order, in many species of which the ovaria are tu-