676 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon/) The horizontal portion of the fornix, as ex- posed by this dissection, has the form of a triangle, the apex of which is directed forwards, and corresponds to the posterior angle of the septum lucidum. Its base is situate behind, and is enclosed by the posterior folded portion of the corpus callosum. The apex is prolonged into two rounded cords of fibrous matter, which pass downwards and outwards, in a somewhat curved course, with their convexity directed for- wards. These are the anterior pillars of the fornix. As they descend, they diverge from each other. We can follow them down to the base of the brain, where they form two small tubercles, the corpora mamillaria, from which fibres are continued upwards and outwards into the substance of the optic thalamus. The posterior pillars of the fornix are ex- pansions of fibrous matter which are continuous with the angles of the base of its horizontal portion. These bands are continued into the lateral ventricle, and expand partly over the posterior horn,and partly over the hippocampus major in the inferior horn. The portion of the fornix which is thus continued into the inferior horn presents a fine concave edge directed in- wards, which is the corpusJimbriutum. It would thus appear that the fornix consists of a horizontal triangular portion (corpus J'or- nicisj resting on four pillars, which take some- what of a curved course, and form numerous connections with deep-seated and important portions of the brain. The anterior pillars are closely connected with the optic thalamus, with the tuber cinereum, with the white matter which forms the floor of the ventricle. The posterior pillars are in intimate union with the posterior and middle lobes of the brain. The fibres of the fornix are distinctly longi- tudinal. So that, supposing it to be commis- sural in its office, it may be slated to connect the anterior lobe of the brain and the optic tha- lamus with the posterior and middle lobes. The fornix is divisible into two equal and symmetrical portions, one belonging to each cerebral hemisphere. These portions are united, as has been already stated, by the deep-seated transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, and by the terminal fibres of its posterior reflexion, which form, on the inferior surface of the fornix, a peculiar appearance called the lyra. The transverse white fibres stand out in relief, cross- ing at right angles the proper fibres of the fornix. In many subjects, however, this ap- pearance is but faintly indicated. The horizontal portion of the fornix rests upon a triangular process of pia mater, which is introduced into the interior of the brain, at the fissure beneath the posterior reflexion of the corpus callosum. This process is the velum interposition already described at page 635. The anterior pillars of the fornix bound in front a space in which the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses unite, and through which the lateral ventricles communicate with each other. This is the foramen commune anterius, described by the first Monro.* If a probe be * But previously recognised and described by Vieussens. laid transversely in this orifice, it will have above it the anterior extremity of the fornix, in front the anterior pillars, and behind it the point of junction of the three processes of pia mater. Of the third ventricle.—If the fornix be di- vided transversely at about its middle, and the segments reflected, and if the velum inter- positum be removed, a fissure, the third ven- tricle, is exposed, situate between the optic thalami. This fissure extends forwards between the anterior pillars of the fornix, where it is limited by a band of white matter visible with- out dissection in that interval. That band is the anterior commissure, which lies just in front of, and as a tangent to the convex border of the anterior pillars of the fornix. At its posterior extremity the third ventricle becomes very much contracted in all its dimen- sions, and is continuous with a canal which leads to the fourth ventricle (iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, Aqueductus Sylvii). The orifice of this canal is apparent at the posterior extremity of the third ventricle, and is bounded superiorly by a transverse cord of white matter, the posterior commissvre, which extends for a short distance into the cerebral matter on either side. The base of the pineal gland rests upon this commissure. In this stage of the dissection, a general view of the third ventricle is gained. This cavity evidently results from the apposition of the lateral halves of the .brain proper, the parts which more immediately correspond being the inner surfaces of the optic thalami. The depth of the ventricle corresponds, in a great degree, to that of these bodies; but it manifestly in- creases towards the anterior extremity. Its floor is formed by a layer of grey matter continued from one side to the other, of the same nature as that which has been already described as covering the thalami. The deepest part of the ventricle is an infundibuliform depression, from which the tubular process, seen at the base of the brain (fig. 382, I), is continued down to the pituitary body. Just beyond this part is the anterior extremity of the ventricle, situate be- tween the anterior pillars of the fornix and behind the anterior commissure; the depth of which is much less than that of the infundi- bulum. The floor of the third ventricle corresponds to several parts of interest which have been enumerated along the middle of the base of the brain. Corresponding to the posterior ex- tremity of the ventricle is the interval between the crura cerebri, the pons Tarini, or inter- peduncular space. Next in order, in the direction from behind forwards, are the corpora mumil- laria, which are succeeded by the tuber cinen um and commissure of the optic nerves. The an- terior extremity of the ventricle corresponds to that portion of the tuber cinereum which ex- tends between the optic commissure and the anterior reflection of the corpus callosum. The roof of the third ventricle is formed by the velum interpositum, already described as giving support to the horizontal portion of the fornix.