88 LACRYMAL ORGANS. junctival layer on the cornea than the microsco- pical structure of this membrane, for there is the greatest resemblance between the structure of the sclerotic conjunctiva and the investment of the cornea."* Eble thus retracts the opinion he formerly expressed against the existence of a conjunctival layer of the cornea. Externally the sclerotica overlaps or en- croaches on, more or less, the edge of the cornea. In certain constitutions,and especially in old persons,! I have observed that the overlapping part of the sclerotica is thicker and more opaque than usual—perhaps also en- croaching more extensively on the cornea. The conjunctiva covering the overlapping sclerotica, especially when the latter is to any considerable extent, appears in its independent form with its chorion fully developed, and although it ad- heres to the subjacent overlapping part of the sclerotica very closely by cellular tissue, it by no means presents the same intimate union with the subjacent structure and the same rudi- mentary state which the conjunctival extension over the transparent cornea has. In an eye before me in which the overlapping sclerotica is to some considerable extent at the upper edge of the cornea, I easily raised up in a fold and then separated by dissection the perfectly developed conjunctiva from over the part. The conjunctiva covering the overlapping part of the sclerotica has a vascular connexion with the latter no otherwise than by the anastomoses of the proper vessels of each—a vascular con- nexion, which indeed subsists between the scle- rotica and conjunctiva elsewhere. The dispo- sition just described is connected with a point in the pathology of the eye, viz. the bluish white ring which is observed to encircle the cornea more or less completely in certain inter- nal inflammations of the eye, and so frequently in what is called arthritic iritis that it has been considered a diagnostic of it, but certainly with- out just grounds. Before explaining the cause of the appear- ance, I would request it to be remembered that the insertion of the ciliary ligament is at some little distance from the apparent margin of the cornea; that the vessels which form the red zone of the sclerotica in the internal inflammations of the eye, and in inflammation of the proper substance of the cornea, are vessels which send branches inwards to the iris, opposite the ciliary ligament, branches outwards to anastomose with those of the conjunctiva, and lastly, branches which, following the original direc- tion, go to be distributed to the proper sub- stance of the cornea. These vessels are not apparent in the healthy state, and one set of them only may become apparent in inflamma- tion. Thus in inflammation of the iris, they will be apparent only as far as opposite the in- sertion of the ciliary ligament. Between this and the clear part of the cornea is the opaque overlapping part of the sclerotica, which of * Mcdicinische Jahrbiicher des k. k. oester- reichischen Staates ; Neueste Folge. Band xvi. t The arcus senilis, it is to be remembered, is not here the question. course not being in the way of the progress of the vessels towards the inflamed part, remains white as usual, and the cornea not being affected the minute branches to its proper sub- stance remain unenlarged and unseen. Hence the overlapping part of the sclerotica is seen in contrast between the abruptly terminating red sclerotic zone on the one hand, and the trans- parent cornea (appearing dark on account of the dark structure behind it) on the other, forming the bluish white ring. From this explanation the bluish white ring round the cornea ought to exist more or less in all internal inflammations of the eye, unless obscured by vascularity of the conjunctiva in inflammation of the cornea. So it does; but in persons of otherwise sound constitution and not of advanced age, the overlapping sclerotica is so transparent and sometimes also to so small an extent, that it is not strongly contrasted by the transparent cornea. It is otherwise the case, however, in certain persons, especially such as are advanced in life, in whom the encroach- ment of the sclerotica and fully developed con- junctiva on the cornea exists to a great degree and in a very opaque state, that the bluish white ring appears in the exaggerated distinct- ness which has commonly attracted the notice of surgeons. The condition of the eye necessary for the distinct appearance of the bluish-white ring round the cornea occurring principally in old persons of bad constitution, and these being the very persons in whom an internal inflamma- tion of the eye very often presents what is called the arthritic character, are circumstances which readily explain the error of supposing the bluish white ring round the cornea diagnos- tical of arthritic iritis.* III.—Lacrymal organs properly so called. Under this head are comprehended : 1. The secreting lacrymal organs, or the lacrymal gland and its excretory ducts. 2. The derivative la- crymal organs, or the passages by which the secretions of the lacrymal gland and of the conjunctival surface are drawn off into the nose, viz. the lacrymal points, the lacrymal canalicules, the lacrymal sac, and nasal duct. The lacrymal gland and its ducts may be considered as a branched diverticulum of the conjunctiva; the derivative lacrymal organs, to use the expression of M. Ue Blainville, as nothing but the continuation of the conjunctiva and its anastomoses with the olfactive mem- brane. 1. Secreting lacrymal organs. Lacrymal ghnd,—Glandula lacrymalis; Fr. Laglande lacrymale; Ital. La glandula lagri- male; Germ. Die Tlirdncndr'use. When the lacrymal caruncle was supposed to filtrate the succus lacrymalis, and the lacry- mal points to excrete it, the lacrymal gland was called glandula innominata. The lacrymal gland (Fig. 13) consists of two masses, an upper and a lower. The upper mass, or glandula lacrymalis supe- rior, lies in the lacrymal fossa, a depres- * London Medical Gazette, vol. xxiii. p. 817.