NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. corresponds with the posterior surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages, and is connected by some muscular fibres and membrane with the supe- rior margin of the cricoid cartilage and with the whole length of the internal margins of the arytenoid cartilages. The immediate effect of the contraction of the arytenoid muscles is to approximate the posterior internal surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages, but their action, at the same time, tends to separate the anterior pro- minences, and to open the chink of the glottis. To counteract this effect the action of the crico- arytenoideus lateralis is called simultaneously into play, and the joint effect of these two muscular forces, represented by the lines N X and NY (Jig. 30,) produce a resultant in the direction of W N ; hence the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and the arytenoideus muscle acting together tend to close the glottis posteriorly. The thyro-arytenoideus.— This is one of the most important, most complicated, and perhaps least understood of any of the muscles of the larynx. It arises from the side of the angle of the thyroid cartilage, occupying about two-thirds of its height, and reaches within two or three lines of its superior margin. The central fibres are directed horizontally back- wards and outwards, slightly inclined upwards, and inserted into the prominence and concavity on the lateral surface of the arytenoid^I, fig. 27). The superior fibres terminate in the external ridge of the arytenoid; some of them pass round the arytenoid, and enclose the arytenoid muscle like a sphincter.* The inferior fibres which arise near the median plane (k, 29) are inserted, at a greater distance from it, into the arytenoid cartilages (f\ fig. 30); some ex- ternal fibres are directed more eccentrically Fig. 29. i Rj si I A view of the larynx from above. fFrom Mr. Willis.) The mucous membrane is removed to shew the ligaments and muscles of the glottis. N F, N F, the arytenoid cartilages; TV, the vocal ligaments ; N X, the right crico-arytenoideus lateralis, the left is removed; X« L, the ring of the cricoid capable of rotating on the axis RS; e e, the crico-aryte- noidei postici ; E, the junction of the wings of the thyroid. * Lauth, Mem. de l'Acad. deMed. 1835. Fig. 30. Y 1 A portion of fig. 29 enlarged to demonstrate the di- rection and result of the forces of the muscles of the larynx. O P, the horizontal projection of the axis of articulation ; T V, the vocal ligament; g h, the direction of the force of the thyro-arytenoideus ; N X, of the crico-aiytenoideus lateralis; N W, of the crico-arytenoideus posticus ; N Y, of the arytenoideus transversus. upwards and backward, corresponding to the superior ligaments and ventricles, where, ac- cording to Lauth, they terminate without reaching the arytenoid. Some fibres of the thyro-arytenoid take an oblique direction back- wards and downwards, arising immediately below the superior internal margin of the angle of the thyroid, and are inserted into the ver- tical prominence of the arytenoid cartilage; they are sometimes detached from those passing horizontally, as in d, (fig 28,) constituting the thyro-arytenoidei superiores of Albinus, but they are sometimes described as one muscle. The thyro-arytenoideus corresponds to the internal surface of the thyroid cartilage, from which it is separated by some loose cellular and adipose tissue. Internally it is in contact with the inferior vocal ligament, which lies in contact with the thickest part of this muscle, the bulk of which causes the vocal ligaments on each side to project towards the mesial line and contracts the aperture of the larynx. Some anatomists consider that the thyro-arytenoid ligaments consist of nothing more than the tendons of these muscles; it is not difficult, however, to prove the contrary by dissection. The functions of the thyro-arytenoidei, con- cerning which there has been much diversity of opinion, produce several changes in the rela- tive position of the internal mechanism of the larynx, and therefore they require rigid inves- tigation. The effects of these muscles may be considered, first, with respect to the tension of the vocal ligaments; secondly, to the aper- ture of the glottis. We observe that the points of attachment (at dd' I, fig. 27) of the thyro- arytenoid are situated within those at A B, (fig.28); and, as the arytenoid cartilage is tied by ligamentous fibres to the point B, it follows that the contraction of thismusclewill drawupon the point B, through the interposed arytenoid cartilage: if A be made the fixed point, the contraction of this muscle will draw the point B towards A by rotating the cricoid on the thy- roid. If, on the contrary, B be fixed, then A will approach B by the rotation of the thyroid on the cricoid. In both these cases the dis- tance from A to B is diminished, and as the vocal ligaments are situated in a direct line