LACRYMAL ORGANS. 7*8 into which the fingers could be sunk, and the posterior articular surface of the patella could be felt and the condyles of the femur also could be recognised through the skin. The liga- mentum patellae seemed to be of its natural length. The patient, when standing on the sound limb, could easily flex the affected one, but could not elevate it nor advance it in the least. When supported under each arm and desired to throw his weight on the injured limb, it instantly gave way under him, becoming suddenly flexed ; and if the man were not sup- ported, he would instantly fall forwards. It is now five months since he met with the acci- dent, and being unable to earn his living he is obliged to seek a shelter in the poor-house. The upper edge of the patella can now be plainly felt, and the muscular fibres normally attached to this margin are separated from it fully one inch, this interval being increased in flexion. The surface of the trochlea and the condyles of the femur can be plainly felt. The man is obliged to use crutches in moving about. The result has been unfavourable, but it is to be recollected that the man was of a weak and debilitated frame and neglected to seek assis- tance for many days. A dignitary of the esta- blished church in this country, aged 70 years, who had met with this accident, was more for- tunate ; he was under the care of Mr. Wilmot, Professor of Surgery at the College of Surgeons, who informs me that his recovery from this accident took about a year, but that he could walk without lameness, and that the recovery was perfect. The tendon or ligament which connects the lower extremity or front of the patella to the tibia is sometimes broken transversely. This rupture sometimes takes place across the fibres of the ligament, and sometimes one or other of the extremities of the tendon is detached from the bone to which it is naturally connected. This rupture usually takes place in a fall upon the knee, the leg being at the time carried sud- denly in the greatest possible degree of flexion while the patella is drawn upwards by the con- traction of the extensor muscles. We recog- nize this rupture by the following signs: the patient cannot raise himself from the ground ; the leg has a singular tendency to flex itself, and cannot voluntarily be extended. If we examine the knee immediately after the acci- dent and before any swelling has supervened, we observe that the patella is elevated, that its lowest point is now directed forwards, that a great degree of lateral movement can be com- municated to it, and that its ligament is preter- naturally relaxed. We observe underneath the skin at the place of the rupture a depres- sion or considerable vacuum. If we push the finger from below upwards underneath the apex of the patella, we can elevate this bone so as to distinguish by the touch the eminence which separates the two articular surfaces of the tibia from each other. Such signs leave no doubt of the rupture of the ligament of the patella; but as this rupture takes place as a consequence of a fall upon the knee, and as this part is more or less contused, there fol- lows sometimes so considerable a swelling that it is impossible to recognize the rupture. It is not until after the disappearance of the swelling that we can often assure ourselves of the true nature of the accident, Under careful manage- ment complete recovery takes place. ( Robert Adams.) LACRYMAL ORGANS, or lacrymal pas- sages, organa lacrymalia s. via. lacrymules; Fr. Les organes lacrymaux ou voies lacrymules; Ital. Gliorgani spettanti alle lagrime; Germ. Die Thrdnenorgane. Under this head it is proposed to describe not only the lacrymal organs properly so called, but also the eyelids and conjunctiva. This article therefore comprehends all the accessory or protecting parts of the eye (tutamina oculi of Haller) exceptthe orbit and muscles of the eye- ball, for which see the articles Face and Orbit. Those parts of the orbit directly connected with the lacrymal organs are however noticed here. I. The eyelids.—Palpebra.* Fr. Les pau- piires; Ital. Lepalpebre; Germ. Die Augen- lieder. The eyeball is invested in front by a mucous membrane called conjunctiva. Towards the margin of the orbit, this membrane leaves the eyeball and forms together with the skin, with which it is continuous, two horizontal folds, an upper and a lower, intended occasionally to cover and so to protect the delicate and trans- parent front of the eyeball. The folds thus formed by the application against each other of a layer of mucous membrane and a layer of skin are eyelids. Such is the simplest idea of eyelids, and such are they found in the salamander and axolotl among reptiles, and so far as in certain in- stances they exist among fishes; such even is their state in man and the higher animals at the commencement of development. But, as in the perfect condition of the organ of vision, it is essential that the eyelids should admit of being readily drawn over the front of the eye- ball, and as readily retracted in order again to permit the access of light, so something more than a mere tegumentary fold was required to constitute a perfect eyelid. There was, in fact, required something to impart firmness, espe- cially to the margins of the folds,—a structure which, whilst it served as an advantageous point on which the muscles necessary for the movements of the eyelids might exert their action, should cause no undue pressure on the eyeball, but rather give it an equable support and shield it from that irregular compression which might otherwise have been produced. All these desiderata we find supplied by a thin fibro-cartilaginous lamina, called tarsal carti- lage, contained in either eyelid, within the fold formed by the skin and conjunctiva. The tarsal cartilages do not occupy the whole of the folds, but only a part at their free mar- gins. Between the upper edge of the carti- * Palpebral, a palpitando, quod palpitare et tremere videantur, propter citissimum et frequen- Ussimum motum.