984 PISCES. near to large veins covered by strong cartilages, which resemble our clavicles, and which there- fore may be called subclavian veins. Towards these all the lymphatic vessels of the body are directed, the lymphatics of the kidneys and organs of generation with those of the tail and inferior parts ascending, those of the flesh and side fins of the trunk of the body running in- wards, and those of the superior parts and of the brain, organs of the senses, heart, and gills, descending. The branches of the lymphatic vessels form larger angles where they terminate in their trunks than are found in the veins, and the smaller branches are connected by transverse canals. The large lymphatics of the muscular organs, near their joining with the lacteals, are collected together in the most simple manner, without forming such intricate plexuses as are found in the course and near to the termination of the lacteal vessels : the lymph from the head and thorax in particular is conveyed chiefly by a single trunk, which receives large lateral branches from the adjacent parts. At last a single vessel on each side of the fish, and in which there is no dilatation or large receptacle, receives all the chyle and lymph, and terminates in the subclavian vein of the corresponding side very near its junction with the internal jugular vein, or nearly in the angle which these two vessels form by their joining. The blood is prevented from getting into these two vessels by a pair of valves placed at the termination of each. In the osseous Fishes the course of the lymphatics has been traced both by Monro and Hewson,* principally in the Gudidtc and the Salmon : their general arrangement has been described above. Four lymphatic vessels which terminate in the subclavian receptacles chiefly merit attention. The first conveys the lymph from the ventral pa- rietes, from the ventral and pectoral fins,and from the heart. The second runs up the side of the fish parallel to the great mucous duct, and brings the lymph from the principal muscles of the tail and body. The third is deep-seated and conveys the lymph from the spine, spinal me- dulla, and upper part of the head, while the fourth lymphatic vessel, or rather plexus of ves- sels, brings the lymph from the brain and organs of the senses, and from the mouth, jaws, and gills. The two receptacles into which all these ves- sels open communicate freely with each other by wide canals, which pass chiefly behind the heart and oesophagus, and each ultimately empties itself into the upper end of its corre- sponding vena cava inferior, contiguous to the termination of the internal jugular vein, the communications between the lymphatic and venous systems being guarded by valves. It will be seen from the above description that the lymphatic system of Fishes offers several remarkable peculiarities when compared with what is met with among the higher Vertebrata, amongst which may be noticed the total want * Phil. Trans, for 1769. of lymphatic glands, and the absence of valves in the absorbent trunks. Owing to this latter circumstance, nothing is more easy than to in- ject them from trunk to branch, and thus dis- play their minute ramifications with the greatest ease. In this manner Mr. Hewson detected in the Cod a beautiful net-work of lymphatic vessels situated between the muscular and vil- lous coats of the intestine, something analogous to what exists in the Turtle; but in Fish it is more evident that there can be no deception, seeing that the injection is contained in cylin- drical vessels, not diffused in cells, as is the case in the reptile. If mercury be injected into this net-work, it spreads over the intestine ; and if the intestine be inverted and slightly pressed, it can readily be seen to pass into the villi of the intestinal mucous membrane. In the stomach, however, the absorhents have a different arrangement. When minutely in- jected with mercury, they are seen to pass through the external coats, dividing into smaller and smaller branches, without any appearance of a net-work between the muscular and the villous coat, so that the absorbent vessels of the stomach manifestly exhibit a different arrange- ment from those of the intestine. By adopting a similar mode of injecting from trunk to branch, Dr. Monro succeeded in de- monstrating numberless lymphatics in the brain, eye, ear, and nose, in all of which organs their existence had been previously doubted; and, also, in proving that their ramifications in the rest of the body were far more extensive than had been supposed. He, moreover, points out another circumstance of considerable im- portance in a physiological point of view, viz., that on examining the minute branches of the lymphatics, they are found to consist of an im- mense number of anastomosing canals, many of which enter the neighbouring lymphatics at right angles instead of being directed towards the heart, by which means a net-work is pro- duced so very intricate that, when a small por- tion only is examined, it is difficult or next to impossible to ascertain what has been the natural course of the lymph ; it is therefore evident that, from the great number and unfa- vourable direction of these canals, general pres- sure cannot in this case be a chief cause of the progressive motion of the lymph, but that each vessel must contribute to its progress by a well- regulated action. Another remarkable circumstance is stated by Monro in connection with the lymphatic vessels, namely, that in the Skate they open by patulous orifices situated upon the back of the Fish, of sufficient size to allow not only air, but water, milk, quicksilver, and even oil of turpentine coloured with vermilion, to be dis- charged upon the surface of the skin, even when the force employed in injecting these fluids was very slight, and no extravasation was produced into the cellular tissue either under the skin or in the muscular interstices. The function attributed to these open vessels by Monro is, however, even if they exist, quite hypothetical, namely, that they are for the purpose of absorbing from the ocean the fluid