929 PERINEUM. The transversalis perinei artery is of small size; it springs from the internal pudic, a little anterior to the source of the superficial perineal artery, but these two vessels not unfrequently arise by a single common trunk. The trans- versalis perinei artery passes through the obtu- rator fascia, and often perforates the base of the triangular ligament of the urethra; it quickly becomes superficial, applying itself to the cuta- neous surface, and running usually near the posterior edge of the transversus perinei mus- cle, it thus gains the central tendinous point of the perineum, where it anastomoses with the inferior hemorrhoidals from behind, the transversalis and superficialis perinei arteries from the opposite side, and with the neigh- bouring superficial perineal. This vessel is accompanied by two veins and by one or more branches of the superficial division of the pudic nerve. The accelerator urinae muscle (the ejaculator seminis of some anatomists, the bulbo-eaver- nosus of others) extends from the central ten- dinous point of the perineum forwards along the urethra, being identified with the correspon- ding muscle of the opposite side in a raphe which occupies the middle line; and so inti- mate is this connection that both might be conveniently described together as a single muscle. The fibres of the accelerator urinae spring from the side of the raphe, and pass from thence outwards and upwards upon the urethra. The anterior fibres incline very ob- liquely forwards and outwards to arrive at the surface of the corpus cavernosum penis, where they terminate. In consequence of this disposition the acceleratores urinae muscles are separated from each other in front by a Y-shaped interval in which the urethra appears. The succeeding fibres, after embracing the urethra laterally, are lost on a short horizontal tendon, which likewise receives the correspond- ing fibres of the opposite muscle. This tendon is placed above the urethra, beneath the junction of the crura penis, and anterior to the triangular ligament of the urethra. The posterior fibres incline outwards more than the others, and are inserted into the superficial surface of the triangular ligament of the urethra, many of them extending nearly to the crus penis. The accelerator urinae muscle lies on the bulb and the neighbouring portion of the corpus spongi- osum. In conjunction with its fellow it con- stitutes a fleshy sheath, all but perfect, for the urethra. Its action is to compress the canal, and at the same time to draw forwards the bulb. It is employed in expelling the semen and the last drops of urine from the sinus of the bulb; and by contracting spasmodically it may even arrest the progress of a catheter, an occurrence explained by the manner in which many of its fibres completely surround the passage. The erector penis muscle (called sometimes " the compressor penis," or " the ischio-caver- nosus,") is placed obliquely along the lateral margin of the genito-urinary division of the perineum, where it partially envelopes and conceals from view the corresponding crus VOL. III. penis. It is elongated, broader in the centre than at the extremities, and curved so as to embrace the crus on which it is moulded. The erector penis springs by a narrow tendi- nous attachment from the inner surface of the tuber ischii, and from the extremity of the great sciatic ligament beneath the transversus perinei muscle; the fleshy fibres soon succeed, and after continuing in an oblique direction up- wards, forwards, and inwards, they end in a fibrous expansion which inclines outwards and forwards to terminate by two processes on the surface of the corpus cavernosum penis. Anatomists are not agreed on the action of this muscle: it may serve to draw down and to compress the crus penis, and in that manner to influence the circulation therein, but it can have no direct concern in causing the erection of the organ. The transversus perinei muscle (" the ischio- perineal" of some anatomists) passes from the tuber ischii to the central tendinous point of the perineum ; in this course the muscle in- clines forwards and slightly downwards, so that its direction is not exactly transverse. It is attached externally to the inside of the tuber ischii, above the origin of the erector penis and the crus penis; and internally it is confounded with the several muscles already specified as reaching the central tendinous point. The transversus perinei is often of a triangular shape, the base at the ischium, and the apex at the central tendinous point of the perineum ; it is mostly fleshy, except at its insertion, which is aponeurotic. This muscle is exceedingly uncertain as regards its developement, being sometimes replaced by a few scattered fibres derived apparently from the levator ani, and occasionally reinforced by a second muscle, termed the transversus perinei alter. The transversus perinei alter, when present, lies anterior and superior to the other, and extends from the ramus of the ischium to the bulb, where it becomes confounded with the accele- rator urinae. The transversus perinei is related by its superficial surface to the superficial peri- neal fascia, the superficial perineal and the transverse perineal vessels and nerves, the inser- tion of the superficial sphincter ani, and the origin of the erector penis and the crus penis. Its deep relations are the levator ani and Wil- son's muscles, together with the triangular ligament of the urethra. The transversus peri- nei contributes to the strength of the perineum by raising and fixing the central tendinous point ; it also assists the levator ani in raising and supporting the rectum and the pelvic vis- cera. The transversi perinei muscles have been by some described as a single digastric muscle, semilunar in shape, and with the concave mar- gin directed backwards and upwards towards the gut; the result of the simultaneous action of these two bellies would be to raise and compiess the intestine in front, and thus to assist in completing the process of defecation. The triangular spaces are situated one at either side of the urethral prominence; each is bounded internally by the accelerator urinae and the urethra, externally by the erector penis 3 o