349 MICROSCOPE. and its portability is a great recommendation. The one in our own possession is packed, with its tripod, into a box whose outside dimensions are 7| inches by 5, and its depth only 2, and this also contains a short body with meniscus eye-piece, four ordinary magnifiers, and three doublets and triplets, which may be used singly or as objectives, illuminating lenses and speculum, aquatic boxes, and other small ap- paratus,—the weight of the whole being no more than 2^ lbs, although a magnifying power of 450 diameters, with sufficient penetration to exhibit the markings on the Podura, and with perfect steadiness, may easily be obtained by it. The instruments we shall now describe are not adapted for use in any other way than as compound microscopes. Their size and weight are such as would render them far less conve- nient than the smaller forms already described for use with simple lenses, although there is no other reason why they should not be thus em- ployed. Every constructor of microscopes has his own favourite model; and there are few re- cently made instruments of the highest class which do not possess some particular recom- mendations. Amidst the numerous claimants to our notice, we shall select two; of which the first is the form adopted by one of the best constructors of achromatic objectives in this country ; and the second is the one which we have ourselves had in use for several years, and which we do not desire to lay aside for any we have seen. With respect to the former, our limited space compels us to refer to the article Microscope in the Penny Cyclopaedia, where a delineation and full description of Mr. Ross's Microscope will be found.* We shall now de;cribe the microscope * [Without wishing in the least degree to detract from the merit of Mr. Ross's microscope, (to which, on the contrary, he bears willing testi- mony,) the Editor deems it but justice to refer to a very beautiful instrument constructed by Mr. Powell, wbich he has employed for some time, and which is also used by several observers in this city. The body of the microscope moves on a triangular bar, having a bearing of three inches, which ren- ders it very steady. The coarse adjustment is ob- tained by a rack and pinion, attached to which are two large milled heads, which allow of the body being adjusted with either hand. The fine adjust- ment has also two milled heads, only two inches apart from the coarse one, and their axis being horizontal and parallel to each other, renders the motion of the hand from one to the other perfectly easy, without removing the eye from the body of the microscope. The stage is seven inches square. The convenience of its being thus large is, that the hands do not interfere with the object when adjust- ing it. The heads that move the stage have their axis in the same line, and so placed that with the same hand the stage may be moved in all direc- tions ; this is convenient when viewing an object, the surface of which is very irregular ; with the right hand you can move the stage, and there being two heads to the adjustments for the body, with the left the object can be adjusted into focus. There are likewise two milled heads to one motion of the stage, by which means both hands may be employed at the same time, which is sometimes requisite. On the same bar that the body rests, moves the " achromatic condenser," by which arrangement it is certain to move in the same line with the body, which we have ourselves been accustomed to employ, and state what we regard as its advan- tages; not omitting to notice the objections which may be brought against it, and bearing in mind that every microscopist is naturally most partial to the form which he has himself adapted to his own ideas of convenience. It is principally constructed according to the plans of Mr. Pritchard and Dr. Goring ; and we may observe in limine, that the objections which have been brought against any form of construction in which the body is screwed by its lower extremity to a horizontal arm, as placing it in the most unfavourable position for vibration, independently of the stage, are ap- plicable only to instruments which are not made with sufficient solidity; for, having had an opportunity of comparing- the quality in this respect, of Mr. Ross's microscope, with our own, the two being placed in exactly the same circumstances, we could not find that there was any inferiority on the part of the latter. It must be borne in mind, that every increase in the size and power of a microscope must be accompanied by mure than a corresponding increase in solidity, in order to guard effec- tually against oscillation. The stand or basement is a slab of solid mahogany 12 inches square and 1£ inch thick, loaded with lead at the corners, and having a strip of thick baize, about l£ inch broad, glued round the edge of the under side; the whole weight bears upon the baize, which does not readily communicate vibrations; and the large surface over which the pressure is distributed gives the instrument a degree of imperturba- bility which would scarcely have been antici- pated. The slab is surrounded by a slightly elevated rim ; and it thus serves as a most con- venient little table, on which the various pieces of apparatus required for microscopical obser- vation may be carried about with the instru- ment without any danger. The pillar of the microscope carries at its lower extremity a screw, above which is a flange or shoulder of 2 inches diameter; the screw is received into a socket let into the wooden foot, and firmly attached to it, and itself having a shoulder of equal size; so that, when the pillar is firmly screwed down upon it, there is not the least tendency to vibration between the two. The socket is not let into the middle of the base, however; but its centre is only 2J inches from one of the sides, and 9£, therefore, from the other; so that, in fact, when the microscope is placed vertically, the centre of the stage pretty nearly corresponds with the centre of the foot. The object of this is to give a decided prepon- derance in weight to the front of the foot in all positions of the microscope; for we are inclined to think that much of the oscillation so fre- quently complained of in microscopes is to be which is most essential, for unless it did so when using different power object-glasses, the axis of the lenses would not coincide. There are many other conveniences and improvements to this microscope which cannot be mentioned in this brief notice.— Ed.]