282 MARSUPIALIA. We find, therefore, that the bones of the fore- arm of the Kangaroo differ little from those of the burrowing Wombat, the climbing Koala, or the carnivorous Dasyure, save in relative size. They present the greatest proportional strength in the Wombat, and the greatest proportional length and slendei ness in the Petaurists or Fly- ing Opossums, in which the radius and ulna are in close contact through a great portion of their extent, and thus lend a firmer support to the out- stretched dermal parachute. They are also long and slender in the Koala. In general the radius and ulna run nearly parallel, and the interos- seous space is very trifling. It is widest in the Potoroos. The olecranon is well developed in all the Marsupials. In the Virginian Opossum and Petaurists we find it more bent forwards upon the rest of the ulna, than in the other Mar- supials. In the Wombat, where the acromion is the strongest, and rises an inch and a half above the articular cavity of the ulna, it is extended in the axis of the bone. The distal end of the radius in this animal is articulated to a bone representing the os scaphoides and os lunare. The ulna, which in the same animal con- verges towards a point at its distal end, has that point received in a depression formed by the cuneiform and pisiform bones ; these are bound together by strong ligaments, and the pisiform then extends downwards and backwards for two-thirds of an inch. The second row of the carpus consists of five bones. The trapezium supports the inner digit, and has a small sesa- moid bone articulated to its radial surface. The trapezoides is articulated to the index digit, and is wedged between the scapho-lunar bone and os magnum; this forms an oblique articu- lar surface for the middle digit; but the largest of the second series of carpal bones is cuneiform, which sends downwards an obtuse rounded process, and receives the articular surface of the fifth, and the outer half of that of the fourth digit, the remainder of which abuts against the oblique proximal extremity of the middle metatarsal bone. The five metacarpal bones are all thick and short, but chiefly so the outermost. The inner- most digit, or pollex, has two phalanges, the remainder three; the ungueal phalanx of all the digits is conical, curved, convex above, ex- panded at the base, and simple at the opposite extremity. In the Perameles the ungueal phalanx of the three middle digits of the hand, and of the two outer digits of the foot, are split at the extremity by a longitudinal fissure commencing at the upper part of the base. This structure, which characterizes the ungueal phalanges in the Placental Anteaters, has not been hitherto met with in other Marsupial genera.* The terminal phalanges of the Koala are large, much compressed and curved ; the con- cave articular surface is not situated, as in the cats, on the lower part of the proximal end, but, as in the sloths, at the upper. The claws which they support are long. * It would be interesting to examine the skeleton of tjie Chwropus, with reference to this structure. In the Great Kangaroo the first row of the carpus is composed, as in the Wombat, of three bones, but the apex of the ulna rotates in a ca- vity formed exclusively by the cuneiforme. There are four bones in the second row; of which the unciform is by far the largest, and supports a part of the middle, as well as the tvvo outer digits. In the Potoroos I find but three bones in the distal series of the carpus, the trapezoides being wanting, and its place in one species being occupied by the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, which articulates with the os magnum. In the Perameles there are four bones in the second carpal row, although the hand is less perfect in this than in any other Marsupial genus, Chteropus excepted, the three middle toes only being fully developed. In the Petaurists the carpus is chiefly re- markable for the length of the os pisiforme. It would be tedious to dwell on the minor differences observable in the bony structure of the hand in other Marsupials. I shall there- fore only observe that though the inner digit is not situated like a thumb, yet that the fingers enjoy much lateral motion, and that those at the outer can be opposed to those at the inner side so as to grasp an object and perform, in a secondary degree, the function of a hand. In the Koala the two inner digits are more deci- dedly opposed to the three outer ones than in any other climbing Marsupial. But some of the Phalangers, as the Ph. Cookii and Ph. gliriformis of Bell, present in a slighter de- gree the same disposition of the fingers, by which two out of the five have the opposable properties of a thumb. I have observed a similar disposition of the digits in the act of climbing in the Dormouse, and it probably is not uncommon in other placental Mammalia of similar habits and which have long, slender, and freely moveable fingers. As a permanent disposition of the digits, the opposition of three to two is most conspicuous in the pre- hensile extremities of the Chameleon. Of the Pelvic Extremities.—The pelvis (fig. 109) in the mature Marsupials is composed of the os sacrum, the two ossa innominata, and the characteristic supplemental bones, attached to the pubis, called by Tyson the ossa marsupialia or Junitores Marsupii. We seek in vain for any relationship be- tween the size of the pelvis and that of the new-born young, the minuteness of which is so characteristic of the present tribe of animals. The diameters both of the area and apertures of the pelvic canal are always considerable, but more especially so in those Marsupialia which have the hinder extremities dispropor- tionately large ; as also in the Wombat, where the pelvis is remarkable for its width. The pelvis is relatively smallest in the Petaurists; but even here the diameter of the outlet is at least six times that of the head of the new-born young. The anterior bony arches formed by the ossa pubis and the ischia are always complete, and the interspace between these arches is divided, as in other Mammalia, into the two obturator foramina by an osseous bridge continued from