PISCES. 985 which is interposed between the skull and the surface of the brain. Organs of respiration.—The respiration of Fishes is purely aquatic, the oxigenization of the blood being accomplished throughout the entire class by its exposure to the oxygen dissolved in the surrounding medium as it passes through the network of extremely mi- nute vessels that is spread out over the exten- sive surfaces furnished by the gills or branchiae. These organs consist of vascular fringes or laminae placed on each side of the neck, over which, in the great majority of species, the water taken in at the mouth is made to pass as it issues through the opercular cavities; and in this way the branchial surfaces, being perpetually bathed with aerated water, perform the same office as the lungs of an air-breathing animal. But while respiration is thus accomplished throughout the whole class by means that are essentially similar, there are several modifica- tions in the mechanical arrangement of the re- spiratory apparatus, each of which will demand our especial notice. Throughout all the extensive division of os- seous Fishes (with the exception of the Lopho- branchii) the construction of the breathing organs will be found to accord with the fol- lowing general description. To the external convex surface of each of the four branchial arches (fig. 522) is attached a double series of flat, elongated, cartilaginous laminae, tapering gradually towards their extremities, the whole forming a crescent-shaped pectiniform frame- work, over which is spread the highly vascular membrane that constitutes the respiratory sur- face. On making a transverse section of the gill it is found that towards their base, whereby they become attached to the branchial arch (fig. 520, b), the two series of branchial lamina; are united to each other, and, moreover, the structure of each leaflet of the branchia becomes apparent. The branchial artery (<•), whereby the blood is brought to the gills for the purpose of respiration, is seen running along the con- vexity of the supporting arch in the middle of the base of the branchial laminae opposite each pair, of which it gives off two branches, which pass outwards to the end of the substance which unites the two layers of gills at their bases, and then severally subdivide, one of the ramuli extending along the internal margin of each branchial lamina to its extremity, the other retrograding to its base. From these two ra- muli minute transverse vessels are given off, which distribute the blood over the general surface of the laminae, and ultimately form the branchial veins, from which the systemic artery is continued. Besides the respiratory laminae the branchial arches support a series of un- vascular processes, which project from their concave margins, and serve to prevent sub- stances taken into the mouth from escaping through the branchial fissures and thus getting among the gills; these processes in the Mullet (Mugil chelo; are extremely beautiful, forming long and delicate fringes along the concavity Fie. 520. of each branchial arch, adapted to bar the passage of minute or finely comminuted food through the branchial interspaces. These internal unvascular appendages to the branchial arches act, therefore, the same part as the epiglottis of mammiferous animals. Fre- l?l f|8S quently there are likewise P3) \¥-^\ tubercular projections from tldd |fc * *'le contiguous margins of IE. ?3 the concave surfaces of the branchial arches, for the pur- pose of preventing the gills from becoming too closely approximated to each other, and thus interfering with the free circulation of the blood over their surfaces. The mechanism of the respiratory process is, there- fore, in these osseous Fishes exceedingly simple. The water which is constantly taken into the mouth passes ... . through the branchial fis- cxdathm of the sures> and ls forcibly driven blood through the by the simultaneous action bronchial leaf- of the branchial arches of the lets. os hyoides, of the palato- b, seciion of temporal flaps, and of the branchial arch ; a, opercula through the inter- branchial artery : ,i n j u m.i spaces of the gills, and thus c, branchial vein: r o ' d, d, e, e, the arte- Passes out through the wide rial and venous fissure upon the side of the trunks derived neck beneath the branchios- from them. tegous membrane. In such genera as have this external opening very large and patulous, as it is, for example, in the Herrings and numerous other races, the death of the fish ensues almost immediately on its removal from its native element, not so much on account of a deficiency of oxygen wherewith to aerate the blood in the branchiae, seeing that that might be derived from the atmosphere, but because the gills, being no longer floated out, collapse, and thus, by pre- venting the passage of blood through the deli- cate vessels which ramify over the branchial laminae, put a stop to the circulation as com- pletely as strangulation could do; but in some genera a provision is made to peimit of a more lengthened existence out of the water where the habits of the fish render such an arrange- ment necessary. In the whole tribe of Eels, for example, the external fissure is removed very far back and reduced to a very small ver- tical slit, converting the cavity wherein the branchiae are lodged into an elongated cham- ber, wherein a considerable quantity of water can be retained : in such Fishes, therefore, the circulation of the blood is by no means put a stop to by taking the fish out of the fluid it usually inhabits, but, on the contrary, many species can exist for a considerable length of time in the air, and even make their way to a distance from their native ponds, the water