MOTION. 443 the coxre to the trunk is by cotyloid joints, as in the Rhimophorae, or by ginglymoid joints, as in the Lamellicornes; and between the trochanter and femur, the coxa and tro- chanter, the femur and tibia, the joints are usually ginglymoid : the axis of each of these joints is turned at right angles to the next, so that, as Dr. lioget remarks,* " there results from the combination of both, a capability in the thigh of executing a circular motion, in a manner almost as perfect as if it had revolved in a spherical socket. The principle of this compound motion is the same as that employed on ship-board for the mariner's compass and other instruments which require to be kept steady during the motion of the ship. For this purpose, what are called gimbals are used, the parts of which have two axes of rotation at right angles to each other, so as to enable the compass to take its proper horizontal position, whatever may be the inclination of the ship." The remaining joints of the legs of insects are also ginglymoid. The tarsi, which vary in number from two to six, terminate by a double hook; those on the anterior pair of legs are directed backwards; those on the middle pair inwards ; and those on the tail-piece, forwards ; by which disposition the insect is enabled to lay hold of rough surfaces, and to walk up in- clined or vertical planes with security. In the progression of insects, the fore and middle legs are extended, and the hind legs flexed previously to urging the body forwards ; in doing which, the actions of these legs are reversed. The simple hook terminating the locomotive organs of most insects will not en- able them to walk on water, to climb vertically on glass, or stand inverted on ceilings, actions which many can perform, and for this purpose an additional apparatus is therefore provided. The common Gnat and some Coleopterse which walk on the surface of water, have the tarsi furnished with a brush of fine hairs, which appear, when the surfaces are free from moisture, to repel the fluid with sufficient force to sustain the weight of the animal, and in confirmation of this theory, it is found that if the legs are moistened with spirit of wine, the animal immediately sinks and is drowned. Those insects which ascend vertically on the surface of glass, or remain suspended in an inverted position from the ceiling, are furnished with an additional apparatus. We have a familiar example in the House-fly, which has the extremities of its feet furnished with two funnel-shaped membranous suckers, moveable by muscles in every direction, by which tbey are capable of exhausting the air on very smooth surfaces, thus causing the pressure of the atmosphere to sustain the weight of the body : the area of these suckers is so beautifully adjusted to the weight of the insect, that the pressure of the air alone is more than sufficient to sustain the weight of the insect without ex- ertion, and to suspend its body to a ceiling in an inverted position. The centre of gravity is is thus suspended, instead of being supported, * JSridgcwatcr Treatise, i. 294. the legs having merely to resist the force of gravity upon the body. In the Bluebottle-fly (Musca Vomitoria) these suckers are conspi- cuous, and the edges being serrated enable them to apply the disc of this pneumatic apparatus to any kind of surface. In the Fig. 236. Fig. 237. Bibio febrilis (fig. 236), the foot is furnished with three suckers, in the Musca domestica with two (fig. 237), and in the Cymbex Lutea with five. Numerous other species, amongst which is the common Wasp, are fur- nished with cushions and analogous suckers, which enable them to ascend vertically on glass. The predaceous insects run with great velo- city in proportion to their height. Those which are furnished with very short legs must ad- vance them at intervals of time corresponding to the square roots of their length, on the supposition that their legs are subject to the same physical laws as those of the human race. Mr. Delisle observed a minute fly run three inches in half a second, making 540 steps in the same time ; each of these steps 3 must have been consequently = 0.0056 ^ 540 of an inch in length. The great number of steps taken by these minute animals conveys to the mind of the observer an impression that the animal is running, whereas it is merely walking, the body not swinging freely in the air, as is necessary, according to the definition of Weber, to constitute the act of running. Myriapoda.—In the Myriapods, the great number of legs and the celerity of their move- ments, as for example, in the Scolopendra, render it difficult to detect the order of their motions. The numerous segments entering into the lengthened form of the trunk, each of which is furnished with a pair of legs, give to the body great flexibility, and enable the Myriapods to turn from a right line to any curved or angular path, or to pass over rough surfaces with facility. The legs, in number from fourteen to forty-two, are short, and directed laterally ; they are composed of four segments; all the joints, except that by which they are attached to the trunk, are ginglymoid, and terminate in a sharp conical claw, which gives precision and security in climbing. The legs appear to move in a determinate order; every