370 MONOTREMATA. by a squamous modification of the coronal suture. The part described in this Article as a lamelliform portion of the petrous bone, (Jig- 169, e,) which extends upon the lateral and part of the posterior region of the skull, is regarded by the Editors* of the Lemons d'Ana- lomie C'omparee, Ed. 1837, as the squamous portion of the temporal; and the flat oblong bone, (fig. 169, B,) which forms part of the la- teral wall of the cranial cavity and the posterior half of the zygomatic arch, and which supports the articular surface for the lower jaw, is thought to be the malar bone. But when we consider the low development or total disappearance of the malar bone in the skull of the Insectivora generally, as in Echinops and Centetes among the Fera, and as in the edentate Manis and Myrmccopliaga, it is unlikely that the malar bone should attain so superior a size and fulfil such important functions in the Monotrema- tous Edentata, in which its condition, according to the above views of the editors of the Lecons dAnat. Comparee, would be unique in the mammiferous class. It appears to me to be more reasonable to regard the malar bone as either altogether absent in the Echidna, as it is in the Manis, and the zygomatic arch as being completed in the Echidna by a greater exten- sion of the zygomatic processes of the tem- poral and superior maxillary bones; or else to suppose that these are actually united, at an earlier period, by a separate intervening jugal style, which, however, I have not been more successful in finding than the Continuators of Cuvier. With respect to the great develop- ment which the petrous bone, according to my view, must present in the Echidna, it may be observed that this bone forms part of the occi- pital region of the skull in most Marsupials, and also contributes as large a proportion to the lateral parietes of the skull in certain Ro- dents, as the Helamys, as it is here described to do in the Echidna. The side of the cranium is principally formed by the largely developed petrous bone (fig. 170, e) and the great ala of the sphenoid, which meet and are joined in the interspace separating the parietal from the squarno-temporal bone, by a nearly vertical harmonia half an inch long; this harmonia is crossed at nearly right angles by a deep groove, which in some parts sinks through the wall of the cranium and exposes its cavity. The groove or canal first runs be- tween the squamous and petrous elements of the temporal bone, and is a conspicuous fea- ture in the skull of the Ornithorhynchus. The lower part of the side of the skull of the Echidna is closed by the squamous element of the temporal, which overlaps a large portion of the petrous bone, and by a small portion of the sphenoid: it is represented detached from the skull at fig. 169, B. The lower boundary of the squarno-temporal forms a straight line, from which the glenoid surface for the lower jaw (f) is extended inwards at a right angle, upon the base of the skull; the anterior part * The very able anatomists, MM. Laurillard and Duvernoy. is continued forwards, protecting the temporal fossa by a thin vertical plate of bone, and then diminishes to a slender, straight, styliform, zygomatic process which rests obliquely on a corresponding process of the superior maxil- lary bone. The tympanic cavity is shallow, and exca- vated in the basal part of the petrous bone, where it is widely open in the macerated skull: it is figured closed by the tympanic bone and membrane atg^g. 170, and exposed by their removal at e"fig. 170. The plane of the mem- brana tympani is horizontal, and its exter- nal surface looks nearly downwards. Three- fourths of its circumference are implanted in the groove of the very slender incomplete hoop formed by the detached tympanic bone, which is figured with the anchylosed malleus at c,fig. 169. The petrous bone is continued from the tympanic fossa forwards and inwards, in the form of a broad and nearly horizontal process, (fig. 170, e',) to the pterygoid plate of the sphe- noid, (j', i',) which is also horizontal. The pe- trous and pterygoid plates are joined by an oblique harmonia, and both contribute to extend the bony palate backwards. The palatal pro- cess of the petrous bone is abruptly terminated behind by the Eustachian groove (fig. 170*). The frontal bone (fig. 169, A) in the cranium here described was divided by a median frontal suture, toothless like the rest; the angle be- tween the superior and the orbital plates is rounded off; the orbital plate joins the great ala of the sphenoid by a deeply sinuous suture. The anterior part of the frontal is largely over- lapped by the bases of the nasal bones, which encroach upon the interorbital space. The nasal bones (fig. 169, n) receive the upper edge of the superior maxillary bone into a groove at their outer margin, and articulate anteriorly with the intermaxillaries (fig. 169, o); but these meet above the nasal canal in front of the nasal bones for an extent of about three lines, and thus exclusively form the boundary of the single, oval, and terminal external nostril. The lower or palatal process of the intermaxillary extends backwards in the form of a long and slender pointed process which is wedged into a fissure of the superior maxillary bone. The anterior palatal or incisive foramen is a single large elongated fissure extending from the narrow anterior symphysis of the inter- maxillaries backwards, for some distance, be- tween the palatal processes of the maxillaries. At the back part of the bony palate a narrow fissure extends forwards between the pterygoid bones, and the intermediate extent of the bony palate is entire, or presents only a few minute perforations. The palatal bones, if originally distinct, soon become confluent with the maxillaries. There was no separate osseous style representing the malar bone between the zygomatic processes of the maxillary and tem- poral bones in the skull here described.* The zygomatic process of the superior max- * Cuvier says," Entre ces deux apophyses est un tres-petit filet qui represent le jugal." Cuvier, Ossem. Foss. 4to., vol. v., p. 145.