PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 720t which each part of this great system takes in the production of nervous phenomena. This inquiry naturally divides itself into two branches, namely, first, the functions of nerves ; secondly, those of nervous centres. Of the functions of nerves.—Nerves are in- ternuncial; they possess in themselves (sepa- rate from the nervous centre) only a very limited power of developing the nervous force, and that only in response to a physical stimulus, for connection with a centre is necessary for the exercise of a mental stimulus. In inquiring into the function of any parti- cular nerve,the problem is to determine whether itpropagates the nervous force cf nlradov periphe- rad, and whether it be connected with the centre of sensation or with the centre of volition; whe- ther, in short, it be sensitive or motor. It must be always borne in mind that most nerves con- tain nerve-fibres of different endowments, and that the office of any given nerve will be deter- mined by the endowment of the greatest por- tion of its fibres. When we say, therefore, that a nerve is motor or sensitive, it is not to be un- derstood that all its fibres are exclusively of that function, and that it contains no others of a dif- ferent endowment. In enquiring into the function of a nerve, the first point to determine is its anatomy, where- by we learn whether it be distributed to mus- cular parts or to sentient surfaces ; and then to ascertain whether its distribution in man corre- sponds with that in the inferior animals. Ana- tomy, human and comparative, affords by far the most certain grounds to enable us to decide upon the endowment of a nerve: if the nerve be distributed to muscular parts, it is evident that it cannot be a merely sentient nerve, although it may contain some sentient fibres. Experiment upon animals recently dead also affords considerable aid in reference to questions of this kind. Mechanical or chemical or galvanic irritation of a nerve will cause muscular contrac- tions if it be a motor nerve, and will produce no perceptible change in either nerve or muscles if it be not muscular. Under certain circum- stances, however, simple irritation of a nerve, while it evinces no change in the nerve itself or in the parts with which it is connected, will affect the portion of the nervous centre in which it is implanted, and will through that excite certain motor nerves to stimulate their muscles. To affect motor nerves through sensitive ones, it is generally necessary to stimulate their peripheral fibres, the entire trunk remaining uninterrupted in its course; and it would appear as if a cer- tain peripheral organisation, as for instance a developement of papilla; on the tegumentary surface, were necessary for this purpose. Very rarely irritation of the trunk of a sentient nerve produces this effect; the least equivocal in- stance indeed in which, so far as I know, muscular action can be produced in this way, i. e., by irritation of the central segment of the trunk of a nerve, is in the case of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. Dr. John Reid has suc- ceeded, after section of this nerve, in producing contraction of the pharyngeal muscles by stimu- lating its central segment. MM. Longet and Matteucci affirm that a motor nerve may be distinguished from a com- pound one by the different effect produced on each by opening or closing a galvanic current, according to the direction in which it passes in the nerve. We have referred above to the results of experiments on compound nerves, the sciatic for instance, by means of the electric current. Compound nerves, as has been shown by these means, may at first be affected equally on opening as on closing the circuit, whether the current be direct or inverse; but after a time they are excitable, as shown by the con- traction of the muscles below the point stimu- lated, only on closing the direct current or opening the inverse. With a purely motor nerve, however, such as the anterior root of a spinal nerve, a different result is obtained after the first period has passed; inasmuch as the contractions of the muscles can only be excited on opening the direct current or closing the in- verse* Experiment upon living animals likewise affords us some assistance in determining the functions of nerves. This mode of inquiry, how- ever, must be used with great circumspection, and great caution must be observed in the inter- pretation of the results which it elicits. Section of a nerve paralyses its function, and occasions loss of motor or of sensitive power, according to the nature of the parts to which the nerve is distributed. Experiment of this kind, however, frequently leads to very unsatisfactory results, because it is often a matter of extreme difficulty to reach the nerve in question; the operation for that purpose may involve other parts and nerves as well, and sometimes it maybe impos- sible to divide one nerve without injuring ano- ther immediately adjacent to it. Moreover, the shock of a severe operation frequently produces so much disturbance in the entire system cf the animal as to render it extremely difficult to form any accurate opinion as to the effects of the section of the nerve under examination. Clinical medicine gives very important aid to physiological enquiries of this nature. Disease or injury of certain nerves impairs or destroys or modifies certain functions. The various forms of partial paralysis, especially those affecting the face, may be referred to in illustration of this assertion. Thus a very dis- tinct series of signs accompany disease of the facial nerve or the portio dura of the seventh pair; and these signs mark it very distinctly as * Matteucci et Longet, sur la relation qui existe entre le sens du courant clectrique, et les contrac- tion musculaires due> a ce couiant. Paris, 1844. It is an extraordinary circumstance that the excitability of motor nerve-fibres should be mo- dified by their simple juxtaposition with sensitive fibres. I learn from a recent communication from Prof. Matteucci, (May, 1847,) that he rinds that etheriza- tion in dogs modifies the excitability of the nerves, so that the mixed nerves, while connected with the nervous centre, react with the direct or inverse current 33 the motor nerves do, and excite contrac- tions on opening the direct current or closing the inverse ; but the moment their connection with the cord is destroyed they exhibit the phenomena of mixed nerves, causing contraction with the direct current on closing, and with the inverse on •opening.