337 MICROSCOPE. for the purpose of correcting the defects inci- dental to it. In order to gain a clear notion of the mode in which a single lens serves to magnify minute objects, it is necessary to revert to the pheno- mena of ordinary vision. An eye free from any defect has a considerable power of ad- justing itself in such a manner as to gain a distinct view of objects placed at extremely varying distances; but the image formed upon the retina will of course vary in size with the distance of the object; and the amount of detail perceptible in it will follow the same proportion. To ordinary eyes, however, there is a limit within which no distinct ima°e can be formed, on account of the too great diver- gence of the rays of the different pencils which then enter the eye; since the eye is usually adapted to receive and bring to a focus rays which are parallel or slightly divergent. This limit is variously stated at from five to ten inches; we are inclined to think from our own observations, that the latter estimate is nearest the truth ; that is, although a person with ordi- nary vision may see an object much nearer to his eye, he will see little if any more of its details, since what is gained in size will be lost in distinctness. Now the utility of a con- vex lens interposed between a near object and the eye consists in its reducing the divergence of the rays forming the several pencils which issue from it; so that they enter the eye in a state of moderate divergence, as if they had issued from an object beyond the nearest limit of distinct vision ; and a well-defined picture is consequently formed upon the retina. But not only is the course of the several rays in Fig. 159. Diagram illustrating (he me o f the Simple 3Iicroscope. each pencil altered as regards the rest by this refracting process, but the course of the pencils themselves is changed, so that they enter the eye under an angle correspondent with that at which they would have arrived from a much larger object situated at a greater distance. The picture formed upon the retina, therefore, corresponds in all respects with one which would have been made by the same object, greatly increased in its dimensions, and viewed at the smallest ordinary distance of distinct vision. A short-sighted person, however, who can see objects distinctly at a distance of three or four inches, has the same power in his eye alone, by reason of its greater convexity, as that which the person of ordinary vision gains by the VOL. III. assistance of a convex lens which shall enable him to see at the same distance with equal distinctness. It is evident, therefore, that the magnifying power of a single lens, depending as it does upon the proportion between the distance at which it renders the object visible, and the nearest distance of unaided distinct vision, must be different to different eyes. It is ordinarily estimated, however, by finding how many times the focal length of the lens is contained in ten inches ; since, in order to render the rays from the object nearly parallel, it must be placed very nearly in the focus of the lens; and the picture is referred by the mind to an object at ten inches distance. Thus, if the focal length of a lens be one inch, its magnifying power for each dimension will be ten times, and consequently a hundred super- ficial ; if its focal distance be only one-tenth of an inch, its magnifying power will be a hundred linear or ten thousand superficial. The use of the convex lens has the further ad- vantage of bringing to the eye a much greater amount of light than would have entered the pupil from the enlarged object at the ordinary distance, provided its own diameter be greater than that of the pupil. It is obviously neces- sary, especially when lenses of very high mag- nifying power are being employed, that their aperture should be as large as possible; since the light issuing from a minute object has then to be diffused over a large picture, and will be proportionally diminished in intensity. But the shorter the focus the less must be the dia- meter of the sphere of which the lens forms a part; and unless the aperture be proportionally diminished, the spherical and chromatic aber- rations will interfere so much with the distinct- ness of the picture, that the advantages which might be anticipated from the use of such lenses will be almost negatived. Nevertheless, the simple microscope has always been an in- strument of extreme value in anatomical re- search, owing to its freedom from those errors to which, as will hereafter appear, the com- pound microscope is subject; and the greater certainty of its indications is evident at once from the fact, that the eye of the observer receives the rays sent forth by the object itself, instead of those which proceed from an image of that object. A detail of the means em- ployed by different individuals, for procuring lenses of extremely short focus, though pos- sessing much interest in itself, would be mis- placed here; since recent improvements, as will presently be shown, have superseded the necessity of all these. It may, however, be stated that Leeuwenhoeck, De la Torre, and others among the older microscopists, made great use of small globules procured by fusion of threads or particles of glass. The most im- portant suggestion for the improvement of the simple microscope composed of a single lens proceeded some years ago from Dr. Brewster, who proposed to substitute diamond, sapphire, garnet, and other precious stones of high re- fractive power, for glass, as the material of single lenses. A lens of much longer radius of curvature might thus be employed to gain z