LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 213 necessary to enter more fully into the Hun- terian theory of absorption. The Hunters, Monro, and their followers Cruickshank, Hewson, and Sheldon, conceived that the lacteals and lymphatics formed one great system of vessels by which alone absorp- tion was effecled in the living body, either for the purpose of collecting new materials, or for the removal of the old ; consequently, that these vessels were essential agents in the growth and habitual nutrition of the structures; — that whenever any of the solid or fluid components of the body, whether of a healthy or morbid character, disappeared, their removal was effected by the lymphatic vessels; this in- cluded the ulcerative process, which they considered as exclusively carried on by these vessels. Many ingenious experiments were performed to disprove absorption by the veins. Fluids of various colours impregnated with musk and other odours were thrown into the intestines of living animals, and were after- wards detected in the lacteals, but not in the veins, and imbibition was considered impos- sible in the living structures. These views were generally received throughout Europe, and have been acquiesced in almost to the present day. Our phraseology, written or oral, whether in reference to Pathology, Physiology, or Anatomy, is evidently still imbued with them. This theory of the func- tions of the lymphatic system necessitated a corresponding anatomical disposition in the mode of origin, as well as in the general ar- rangement of these vessels. They were re- quired to be universal for the purposes of growth and nutrition ; wherever there was the artery to deposit, there must be lymphatic to absorb ; and as imbibition was inadmissible, they were endowed, as a matter of necessity, with open mouths, by which they were said to commence from all serous and from all mucous surfaces, including the interior of all the visceral cavities, the serous linings of the arteries, veins, and even of the lymphatics themselves, the synovial surfaces of the joints ; the surface of the skin, the mucous linings of the alimentary canal, of the aerial, urinary, and other pas- sages, of the excretory ducts, and from the in- terstitial cellular tissue of the whole organism. It was admitted that the orifices of the lymph- atic vessels could not be shewn; that they eluded our senses by their transparency and extreme minuteness; but on the villi of the in- testine, the commencing lacteals were supposed to be detected, turgid with chyle, and their mode of origin by patent orifices was described by more than one anatomist. An analogous arrangement at their commencement was ad- judged to the lymphatics, without any further investigation directed specially to these vessels. Cruickshank thus describes the appearance of the supposed lacteal orifices on the villi, seen in a female who died suddenly seven or eight hours after a full meal. " In some hun- dred villi, I saw a trunk of a lacteal forming or beginning by radiated branches. The ori- fices of these radii were very distinct on the surface of the villus, as well as the radii them- selves, seen through the external surface pass- ing into the trunk of the lacteal; they were full of a white fluid. There was but one of these trunks in each villus." He states also that Dr. Hunter examined them under the microscope, and counted as many as fifteen to twenty orifices to each villus. According to Lieberkuhn, the lacteal commences on the apex of each villus by one or more orifices leading to an ampullula situated near the apex of the villus, from whence one lacteal branch proceeds through the centre to the base of the villus. The ampullula, he states, is lined by a spongy cellular tissue, which he conceives is subservient to absorption. With respect to the orifices, his words are : " Quod autem unum saltern adsit foraminulum in cujusvis ampul- lulae apice, certo examine mihi constat: in- terduin tamen, licet rarissime, plura ut in pa- pillis mammarum, vidisse memini." Sheldon admits Lieberkuhn's description of the orifice of the lacteal vessel, and of the ampullated ap- pearance of its commencement from the villus ; but it appears to me, on looking at Shel- don's plates, and reading his description of the ampullula', that he as well as Lieberkuhn, whose plates he has copied, have mistaken the mucous follicles of the intestines for the am pullated villi. Speaking of the ampullula?, Shel- don says, " I have seen them of different forms, most commonly bulbous, as represented by Lieberkuhn. I have also seen a number of ampullula1 filled with chyle, sometimes form- ing clusters, as represented in plate I., while in other parts of the small intestines I have found them solitary, and projecting beyond the villi, as may be seen in several of the figure? in plate I." Hewson has seen a net-work 01 lacteals as well as of bloodvessels on the villus, but no ampullulas; he states that the orifices of the lacteals can only be discerned when the villus is rendered turgid and erect by the fullness of the bloodvessels. In refer- ence to these orifices, he says : " It might be here objected that these were only lacerations of the villi, but I am persuaded they were not, from having, on repeatedly examining them, observed the pores or orifices very distinct and empty ; whereas, were they lacerations, I think I should have seen the injection in them, as the villi were so much injected by it.'' These are the data upon which has been founded the opinion that the lacteals and lymphatics arise every where by open mouths. I have myself examined under the microscope the villi of various animals destroyed at different periods after a meal, for the purpose of detecting the mode of origin of the lacteal vessels. I have looked at them for hours together before and after the bloodvessels had been filled to great minuteness, but have never been enabled to discover orifices on the apices, or on any other part of the villus, and I can adduce the names of a host of modern observers of consi- derable celebrity, Rudolphi, Panizza, Haasse, Lauth, Fohmann, Breschet, Miiller, Treviranus, and others, who deny the existence of any such orifices. Magendie and Cruveilhier conceive that the chyle must enter the lacteals by ori-