ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 01 Patients under an incipient attack of white swelling first experience inconvenience in walk- ing from weakness of the joint, a symptom which is more especially troublesome after exercise. But as soon as the pain becomes constant, the patient is no longer able to rest the weight of his body upon the affected limb without a great increase of uneasiness. On this account he is willing to save the limb as much as possible; he touches the ground, therefore, merely with his toes, trusting the support of his body chiefly to the other limb. In walking in this way the knee necessarily becomes bent, and what is thus begun becomes permanent from other causes; so that after a certain period the joint continues permanently in a state of flexion. Although we occasionally see cases in which the leg remains extended on the thigh, they must be considered rare, for in general the leg is in a more or less forced state of flexion on the thigh, and such is the patient's apprehen- sion of pain he will not on any account extend the leg voluntarily, nor allow it to be extended by others. The earlier period of the disease is succeeded by a second stage,* in which the patient usually submits to the adoption of active and energetic treatment. The pain now not unfrequently diminishes, but the swelling continues in- creasing, the ham becomes fully occupied by it, the extremities of the bones appear to enlarge, and become more prominent as the flexion increases. Attacks of inflammation ensue, accompanied by pain starting up and down the limb, by which sleep is interrupted. These attacks are usually succeeded by effusion of fluid into the synovial sac of the joint and cellular interstices around : abscesses form, and some fluctuation may now be discovered in different parts of the swelling. If at this period, which may be called the third or sup- purative stage of the disease, the bones be moved laterally, it will be perceived that the ligaments permit an unnatural degree of motion between them, and now, as in other articula- tions, partial or complete luxation may occur. Such, however, is the breadth of the surfaces of contact of the bones of the knee-joint, that complete luxation seldom happens. The limb at this period is usually found lying powerless on its outer side and in the semiflexed position; and after some time a partial displacement of the leg outwards on the femur occurs: under other circumstances a partial or complete luxa- tion backwards happens. Although the disease, arrived at this stage, seldom terminates favour- ably, still instances do occur of unexpected improvement of the general health, of the resolution of the swelling, of the absorption of matter, and of one of the forms of anchylosis taking place. But usually the matter formed in and around the joint goes on accumulating, _ * Mr. Lloyd divides scrofulous white swellings into three stages ; the first being that in which the affection is confined to the bone ; the second that in which the external parts become thickened and swelled; and the third what he denominates the sub-acute stage.—Lloyd on scrofula. the tension of the knee-joint increases, and now in most cases an accompanying oedema of the foot is observed, a symptom than which there can be none more unfavourable. The nocturnal startings of the limb, disturbing the patient's rest, become more painful and urgent, and abscesses communicating with the interior of the articulation open externally by one or more orifices, and give exit to a quantity of matter, which rarely has the quality of laud- able pus; on the contrary, it is for the most part a sero-purulent liquid, of a yellowish green colour, like whey, in which curdy mat- ters are found floating. It is remarkable that little diminution in the size of the swelling follows the escape of this matter. We have stated that the pus is seldom lau- dable. On some few occasions, however, its consistence may be that of good pus; but even then it soon degenerates into a thin fcutid sa- nies of bad quality. The openings giving exit to the discharge sometimes close very speedily, and new collections form in different parts of the tumour. This, however, is unfortunately rare, for generally the openings degenerate into fistula;. A probe introduced into one of these penetrates, if the route be not long and cir- cuitous, into the interior of the joint, and dis- covers the internal parts to be carious and dis- organised ; and if the bones of the articulation be now pressed together, a crepitation, arising from the friction of the carious and ulcerated surfaces, is perceived, furnishing unequivocal evidence of the last stage of disorganization of all the structures of the articulation. This is the most common course of the disease, but in some cases there are varieties to be observed. For example, the suppuration of the soft parts and of the cartilages, and even caries of the bones, may occasionally precede the displace- ment of the bones; and all the parts of the articulation may be destroyed without the oc- currence of any displacement; but if, in this case, we move the bones of the articulation in opposite directions, we easily ascertain the re- laxation of the uniting ligaments, and that many of the conditions necessary to the dis- placement exist, although, from some cause not easily explained, it has not occurred. As to our prognosis we should remember that the age and constitution of the patient have considerable influence on the ulterior pro- gress of the disease, and our knowledge of this must control our anticipations as to the result to be expected, ceteris paribus. The disease in the truly strumous subject is very rebellious, and has a disposition to terminate in suppu- ration which it is difficult to baffle. In young- subjects it is in general more acute, or the suc- cession of the different orders of symptoms is more rapid; but in young persons there is much more hope of cure than in the old and exhausted. We agree with Mr. Russell in opinion that it is in the cases of infants that the formation of anchylosis may be expected as the termination of a case of white swelling, though even with these true bony anchylosis must be considered as a very rare occurrence. In the beginning the disease has but little