150 LIFE. function always results, either from some struc- tural alteration (although this may be of a kind imperceptible to our senses), or from some change in the character of the stimuli by which the properties of the organ are called into action. There is no difficulty, therefore, in accounting on this view for the death of the whole system on the cessation of any one function ; since any perturbation in the train of vital actions will not merely disturb the regularity of all, but, if sufficiently serious, will check those nutrient processes on the uninterrupted continuance of which the vital properties of the several parts depend ; the degree of that dependence being proportioned to their respective tendencies to spontaneous decomposition if not thus renewed. Still, the vital properties of in- dividual parts may be retained for a consi- derable period after general or somatic death (see Death) has taken place; and vital actions may continue, as already stated, so long as the conditions which they require in the living body are supplied. So far from a dead body having " all the organization it ever had whilst alive," as has been often maintained by the upholders of a separate vital principle, it will be found, on a more minute survey, that no single portion of it is existing under the same circumstances in these two states; * and there is good reason to believe that those agents which destroy life with the least apparent or- ganic change, produce structural alterations which are not the less important because more minute. Some instances of this kind will be presently noticed (Sect. V.). We must confess ourselves at a loss to understand how the gra- dual death of individual parts of the body can be explained upon the doctrine of the vital principle, without supposing that it may be split into as many individual existences as there are organs in the system ; such an idea would then coincide with that of the superadded pro- perties of which we have endeavoured to show the fallacy, and all the arguments derived from the unity of its operations would fall to the ground. One often repeated objection to (he doctrine that vitality results from organisation may, we think, be easily disposed of, as it is more spe- cious than real. It is considered by some to be a sufficient disproof of this doctrine, to refer to the universally-admitted fact, that the exist- ence of organisation implies a previous exist- ence of life; and thence to infer that life cannot be at the same time the cause and the consequence. But this is a sort of paradox which reminds us of the question that puzzled the profound casuists of yore—" Whether does the bird spring from the egg or the egg from the bird ?" It is evident that the life of any indi- vidual being may be the consequence of the action of stimuli upon its organism, just as the bird is produced by warmth from the egg; and yet that the organisation of its structure may be the result of the previous existence of life in the parent, just as the egg is produced by a bird. We are only referred backwards, there- fore, in our enquiry into the efficient cause of * See Piichaid on the Vital Principle, p. 117. the development of vital properties, to the first creation of each organism. Here some would maintain that the Creator formed a vital prin- ciple or organic agent, and then set it to or- ganise the body. But we apprehend that this is an assumption which we have no right to make; and that it is more philosophical, be- cause more consistent with what we elsewhere witness, to suppose that the Creator, in first forming matter, endowed it with properties in virtue of which it became capable of exhi- biting vital actions or life, when first combined by Him into an organised structure ; and that the Parent of all thus impressed upon the elements of which each created being was composed, the spirit* of the laws which should in future govern its growth and reproduction, just as He impressed upon the bodies com- posing the planetary system that mode of action whose subsequent continuance has given us the notion of the laws of gravitation and of motion. To account for the perpetuation of the race, we require nothing but the continued operation of those laws; in other words, the continuance of the same mode of action, by which particles of inorganic matter are succes- sively organised, and, qua organised, become ca- pable of performing vital actions, a part of which consists in the production of correspond- ing changes on other materials. The actions performed by living beings are not all, however, immediately dependent upon the operation of the vital properties of their organs ; since many are evidently conformable to physical laws, and the properties of the or- gans by which they are performed are common to them with many kinds of inorganic matter, and are exhibited by dead as well as by living organised substances, as long as no obvious change takes place in their composition. Of this kind are the property of elasticity in va- rious tissues, especially certain of a ligamentous character; and that by which endosmose takes place through certain membranes. It may be observed, however, that the existence of such properties in the tissues of the living body obviously depends upon a certain arrangement of their ultimate molecules, which can only be maintained by the exercise of their nutrient functions; and that any irregularity in the latter, still more their entire cessation, will speedily impair the properties, by giving free course to the constant tendency to decomposi- tion in the tissues which exhibit them. And further, it may be remarked that in most in- stances these properties are dependent for their excitement to action in the living body, upon those truly vital processes which no mecha- nical contrivances or chemical operations can produce or imitate. Between these two extreme classes of phe- nomena,—the purely physical, and the purely vital—there is a third, of a very peculiar and perplexing character. We allude to the ac- tions concerned in preparing the materials for organisation out of the aliment received into the system. Many are disposed to regard these as of a vital character, and to consider that, as * Herschel's Preliminary Discourse, p. 37.