MUSCULAR MOTION. 529 spiral thread of areolar tissue investing the fibre, and Mr. Skey* describes them as an external structure, independent of the fibrillar, which he believes to be arranged in band-like sets around a glutinous substance in the axis of the fibre. Ficinusf falls into the old error of Prochaska, of imagining the striae to be the result of minute flexures of the fibrillae, and, like him, he confounds with them the secondary flexures of the whole fibre. Hence, says he, the appearance of globules or particles is false, and only exists during contraction. Other opinions still I have had occasion to allude to in the course of the article Muscle, which, as before remarked, is founded on observations which have been now two years before the public. I All the best observers are agreed as to the existence of certain appearances, and the dis- crepancies we encounter in the interpretation of them ought not to bring discredit on all researches of this sort. They place, indeed, in a strong light the difficulty of the inquiry, and the necessity for repeated, varied, and un- biassed observation, with the best instruments we can command. But we are too familiar with conflicting and even opposite statements concerning visible facts, occurring daily under the eyes of every one, to suppose it possible that any kind of investigation will ever be free from those causes of error, which lie in man's nature, in his own microcosm, and the effects of winch can only be neutralized by the common consent of numerous independent observers. As for those difficulties, whatever they may be, which are inherent in the nature of the subject, we cannot doubt that they will be, in due time, appreciated and overcome. Some of the opinions concerning the nature of contraction, entertained by the earlier ob- servers, have been already mentioned; another, which seems to have been grafted on the doc- trine of the vital spirits, was, that these spirits were directed into the fibres and distended them, thus causing them to tumify and shorten. Accordingly, some (as Robert Hooke and Cowper) considered each fibre or fibnlla to be hollow; which need not excite surprise, when we find the great Mascagni § believing each to be a lymphatic vessel. The first hint of another very noted hypothesis is to be found in the Memoirs of the French Academy. 1724:— L'Abbe de MolTeres there says,|| " I.es fibres charnues qui s'etendent selon la longueur du muscle, et dont le raccourcissement fait son action, se divisent en un grand nombre de petites fibres de meme nature longitudinales aussi, et qui sont liees les unes aux autres par des filets nerveux transversaux disposes le long des fibres de distance en distance. De plus, les petites fibres charnues ne sont pas droites, mais pi ices en zigszags, dont les angles se * Phil.Trans. 1837. t De Fibrae Muscularis Forma et Structura. Lip- siae, 1836. V t Phil. Trans. 1840. § Prodromo della grande Anatomia—da Franc. Automarchi, Firenze, 1819. || Malsaigne, Anat. Chirurgicale, vol. i. p. 102. Paris, 1838. VOL. III. trouvent aux endroits, ou sont les filets trans- versaux." Hales* examined the abdominal muscles of small living frogs, and saw them thrown into zigzags during contraction, as he imagined ; but he mistook the uncontracted for contracted fibres, as I have explained,f Pre- vost and Dumas, at a later period,* described the same zigzag flexure of the fibres during contraction, and further imagined it to be an electrical effect produced by the passage of the nerves across them at their angles of flexure. This doctrine was too captivating not to obtain very general credence, especially as it seemed to fall in with a notion, at that time very cur- rent among speculative physiologists, that the nervous influence is a form of electricity. But its validity has of late begun to be questioned ; Professor Owen,§ in small filaria; and in a spe- cies of vesicularia, observed a fact opposed to it, viz. the bulging of the (unstriped) fibres near their centre, without their falling out of the straight line, in contraction. A similar fact was observed in the case of the (unstriped) muscles of the Polvpifera, by Dr. A. Farre;|| and Dr. Allen Thomson,^ on repeating the experiment of Hales and Prevost on the Frog, " observed single fibres continuing in contrac- tion, and being simp'y shortened, and not fall- ing into zigzag plica- ; and he was led to sus- pect, from this and other circumstances, that the zigzag arrangement was not produced until after the act of contraction had ceased." M. Lauth, after a careful investigation, concludes** that a fibre may shorten with or without zigzag inflection. Such, I believe, was the state of this question in 1840, when I published the observations,!! on part of which the account of the nature of contraction, given in the pre- sent article, is principally based. In the fol- lowing year I addedJJ a note, on the appear- ances met with in human muscle ruptured by tetanic spasm, and which seemed to me to prove that the conclusions I had previously drawn from the phenomena of the rigor, mortis were true as regards the act of contraction, as it occurs in the living body. Bibliography.—TV) the following works way be added the several systematic treatises on descriptive anatomy, and on general anatomy and physiology. Hooke, Posth. Works, by Waller, 1707. Experi- ments and Observations of Robert Hooke, &c. by W. Deiham, 1726. Malpighi', De Bombycibus, p. 9, 10. Leeuwenhoek, Phil. Transact. 1674, 1677, 1683, &c. Epist. Physiolog. passim. De Heide, Experimenta circa sanguinis missionem, fibras motiices, urticam marinam, &c. Amstelod. 1686 and 1698. Croone, De ratione molds mus- culorum, Lond. 1664. AJuys, An account of se- veral observations concerning the frame and tex- ture of the muscles, Phil. Trans. 1714. De car- * Haemastatics, p. 59. t Phil.Trans. 1840. % Majendie's Journal, 1825. § Hunter's Works by Palmer, vol. iv. p. 261 —2, note. jl Phil. Trans. 1838, pp. 394 and 396. % Quoted by Owen, loc. citat. ** L'lnstimt. No. 73, quoted by Muller in his Physiology, Baly's Transl., p. 888. tt Phil. Trans. 1840, pt. ii. U Phil.Trans. 1841, pt. ii. 2 M