OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 83 3 3 ii The styloid bones(29), mere rudiments in the human skeleton, anchylosed with the rest of the temporal bone, of which they are called the " styloid process," in the water-breathing Vertebrata are distinct pieces interposed between the os hyoides and the base of the skull, serving to unite the former to the latter. The sympkctic bones (31) seem to be peculiar to Fishes ; they accompany the transverse, and assist in connecting' the articulation of the lower jaw with the pterygo-palatine apparatus. The lower jaw, although in the adult human subject formed of a single piece, ^ in the fatus consists of two lateral halves united by a symphysis, as it is perma- nently in many of the lower Quadru- peds. In Reptiles and Fishes, how- ever, each half consists of numerous pieces, to which distinct names have been given by the comparative anato- mist. In the Crocodile and most reptiles there are six in number, viz. the dental portion (34), in which are situated all the alveoli of the teeth, uniting with its fellow to form the symphysis of the jaw- The opercular, covering almost all the inner aspect of the jaw except in front. The angular (36) and the supra-angular (35), placed one above the other, reaching quite to the posterior extremity of the jaw. In the Crocodile they leave between them a conside- rable space occupied anteriorly by the end of the dental portion, and then by a large oval aperture. The articular (e), bearing the articular pro- cess, whereby the jaw is connected with the skull. Likewise another small and unimpor- tant plate of bone sometimes seen on the inner aspect of the inferior maxilla. In the Chondropterygious Fishes the lower jaw is made up of only one bone, the aiti- upon which the teeth are affixed : rudi- Fig. 446. Fig. 44.5. IS Human Skull. cular, Human Skull. ments of the others are, however, met with imbedded in the flesh beneath the skin. The hyo-branchial apparatus.—The osseous framework to which in the human subject the name of os hyoides has been appropriated, from the trivial circumstance that in the simple con- dition under which it presents itself in man it resembles the Greek letter v, is found in the lower Vertebrata to be permanently composed of very numerous pieces, which are made sub- servient to respiration, and from their size and number render the whole apparatus, which they assist in forming, really worthy of the name of an anterior thorax. The hyoid system of bones may indeed be regarded as being in some respects vicarious in function with the true thorax, the former belonging especially to the aquatic, the other to the aerial mode of respiration; whilst, therefore, as in Fishes, the gills form the only meansof breathing, andthe branchial arches exist in their full, state of developement, the hyo-branchial ap- paratus is complete and preponde- rates in importance over the thorax ; but, in proportion as pulmonary respiration is established, as we ascend the scale of animal existence, the thoracic system of bones as- sumes the principal duties con- nected with the inspiration and expiration of air, and the os hyoides dwindles into a very rudimentary condition. The above circum- stances however, interesting as they are when a mere comparison is instituted between the hyoid bones of various animals as to their com- position when in the adult state, assume additional importance when we reflect that all the higher Ver- tebrata possess in the earlier stages