MUSCLE. 518 pharynx and the muscular coat of the oeso- phagus, and the heart. In the oesophagus it appears to be mingled with the other variety to a somewhat uncertain extent. In some speci- mens from the human subject I have been un- able to detect any striped fibres in the lower half of that tube, either in the circular or longitudinal layer, but in other examples tliey have been traceable to within an inch of the stomach. Among the lower animals consider- able differences occur, as has been well pointed out by Mr. Gulliver,* who observes that in general " the muscular fibre of animal life (striped) extended further towards the stomach in the outer than in the inner layer of the oeso- phageal muscular sheath." In several animals this gentleman found the striped fibres even on the stomach (as in the Rabbit, Lepus cuniculus, Linn., the Sheep, Ovisaries, Desm., the Sloth Bear, Ursus labiatus, Blainv.) while in many others he met with them to within a very short distance of that cavity. Dr. Todd has also shewn them to me on the glandular pouch at the cardiac extremity of the stomach in the Dormouse. It is still unknown in what manner the two varieties of fibre are arranged at this point of junction, some supposing that they are simply intermixed, others that they pass into one another by imperceptible gradations. The former of these views is that which appears most consonant with my own observations. Mr. Skey considersf that the fibres of the heart " possess a somewhat compound character of texture," and this opinion seems highly pro- bable. They possess, it is true, the transverse stripes indicative of an arrangement of particles in parallel series, but there is frequently a want of that uniformity and precision in this appear- ance which so remarkably characterize voluntary muscle. The cross lines are apt to be broken and interrupted, and are sometimes difficult to discover at all. This condition is well repre- sented by Mr. Skey in fig. 5 of his second plate. In some of the smaller and lower animals the particles never form transverse stripes. These fibres, as explained by him, are smaller than the average diameter of the voluntary muscles of the same subject by two-thirds, and in most parts of the heart they are not aggregated in parallel sets, but twine and change their relative position. Striped fibres have been found in the iris, in the small muscles of the ear, and in those muscular fasciculi that surround the ure- thra immediately in front of the prostate. They are also found in the sphincters of the anus and vagina. The unstriped fibre is met with in the ali- mentary canal from the middle of the oeso- phagus to the rectum, and constitutes the double layer investing that tube. It also forms the muscular coat of the bladder and that of the uterus. The dartos owes its contractility to the presence of fibres of this variety, which, in con- sequence of the abundant admixture of areolar * Proceedings of the Zoological Society of Lon- don, No. 81, Sept. 1839. + Phil. Transactions, 1837, p. 381. tissue, has not hitherto been clearly recognized ; but it may be detected by the addition of acetic acid, which, by bringing into view the peculiar corpuscles it contains, distinguishes it from both the white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue. But even without this chemical test, to which some may object, it is possible to discover this form of muscular fibre in the dartos, by the characteristic appearances which have been already attributed to it. Since satis- fying myself of the real existence of this fibre in the dartos, I have on many occasions de- tected a very decisive peristaltic action advan- cing from one side of the scrotum to the other, and continued for a considerable period, yet of a kind which it was impossible to refer, with any degree of probability, to the cremaster. In one case particularly, occurring in the prac- tice of Mr. Fergusson, where the tunica dartos was much hypertrophied, in connection with an old stricture of the urethra, we observed this peristaltic contraction of a very vigorous de- scription. The fibres which have been de- scribed as peculiar to the dartos seem to be nothing more than a certain modification of the areolar tissue in that region. In the corpora cavernosa penis of the horse there is a large quantity of this kind of fibre, as may be ascer- tained by microscopic examination, although Professor Miiller* seems indisposed to consider it really muscular. He states that " viewed in the microscope these fibres do not present any resemblance to muscular fibres," but my own examinations of them have not confirmed this statement. They appear to me to have all the characteristics of this variety, and by acetic acid are seen to contain a great number of cor- puscles. Moreover they appear to consist che- mically of fibrine. Professor Muller has failed in exciting contraction in them in the living horse, but this is not a conclusive fact as to their nature, for it may be and probably is the case that they do not act unless stretched by the erection of the organ. In the quiescent condi- tion of the part they may be considered to be in a contracted state, like the muscular coat of an empty intestine, and so would naturally appear to be unaffected by the stimulus of galvanism. The erection of the penis seems with great probability to be attributable to pressure exercised on the superficial veins of the organ by a continuation of a structure ana- logous to the dartos, and certainly containing the unstriped muscle, which is continued over the base of the penis under the skin. The erection of the nipple also occurs, on any me- chanical irritation, with a motion so very much resembling the peristaltic action of muscular fibres, that I have little doubt such would be found, constituting a layer, under the skin in that region. And it may be matter of inquiry how far the general contractility of the skin is de- pendent on a diffusion of this tissue, in small quantities, throughout its areolar structure. The excretory ducts of all the larger glands appear to possess a covering of fibre belonging to this * Physiology, by Baly, second edition, p. 250.