839 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) portion of the skeleton into an osseous frame- work able to sustain the stress of those power- ful muscles that wield the instruments of flight. At one end each of these pieces is moveably articulated with the distal ex- tremity of the corresponding dorsal rib, whilst at the opposite it is firmly attached to the sides of the expanded sternum by joints that admit of a certain extent of motion. It is in the Chelonian Reptiles that these accessory portions of the thorax attain their greatest growth, spreading into broad plates that are connected by strong sutures to the ex- tremities of all the spinal ribs and likewise to each other in the Tortoises, completing thus the carapax or dorsal shield; and, moreover, being solidly united at the sides with the enor- mous apparatus of sternal bones, the whole body of the Tortoise becomes encased in bony armour, derived entirely from the thoracic elements of the skeleton. The anterior limbs of Vertebrate animals, although essentially composed of similar ele- ments throughout all die classes belonging to this great division of animated nature, are made subservient to very various and opposite uses; the pectoral fin of the Flying Fish, the enormous hand of the Skate, the paddle of the Turtle, the flipper of the Whale, the wings of the Bird and of the Bat, the broad shovels of the Mole, and that masterpiece of organiza- tion, the human hand, being respectively but simple modifications of the same structure. In the osseous Fishes, indeed, it is not always easy to recognise the elements that are correlative with those of the higher Vertebrata; but a little attention is sufficient to prove the construction of the pectoral fins among the finny tribes to be true representatives of the anterior extremities of other races, as will be evident from the following masterly analysis of the parts composing the pectoral fin of the Perch, given in Cuvier's great work on Fishes. Immediately behind the gill-openings there is placed on each side a framework of bones that bound the branchial apertures. This frame is attached superiorly to the back of the head, but inferiorly the two halves are united together, forming a bony zone that surrounds the body at this part; and being connected inferiorly with the body of the os hyoides, forms here a kind of isthmus that separates the gill-open- ings from each other. The bony zone above described is made up on each side of three pieces, which represent the bones of the shoulder and of the arm, to which is affixed posteriorly a group of two or three other bones that represent the forearm, wherewith is con- nected the fin itself, the representative of the hand. The names applicable to these pieces of the skeleton when their analogies are strictly investigated are as follow :—The suprascapular,* the scapulur,f the humeru$,\ the radius and ulna, * Synonyms—Omoplate, Omolite, Pediaule de I'epaule. t Syn.— Omoplate (Geoffroy), Acromion ( Bakker). t Syn. — Clavicle (Meckel, Geoff.), Camoateon (Bakkcr). to which succeed the carpal bones and the phalanges of the fin. In addition to these must be noticed the two pieces regarded by Cuvier as representing the coracoid bone of Keptiles. When fully developed, the anterior extremity is made up of a greater number of elements than exist in the human skeleton. The shoulder is a strong framework, composed of three dis- tinct pieces, named respectively the scapula, the clavicle, and the coracoid bone. The other bones of the limb resemble each other in their general arrangement throughout all the Verte- brata, and in the Crocodile, where all parts of the limb present a medium state of develope- ment, the analogies between the bones com- posing it and those of the human arm are at once recognised. The humerus, a single bone, supports the first division of the limb. Two bones, the radius and the ulna, are met with in the forearm, while the bones of the carpus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges of the fingers present an arrangement similar to what is found in the human body. In order, however, to appreciate the important modifications required in the disposition and conformation of these elements in the different races possessing them, it will be needful to examine them successively in the order in which they have been enu- merated. The scapula is the most important piece entering into the composition of the shoulder, and not unfrequetitly, among the Mammiferous races, is the only bone developed for the sup- port of the anterior limb. In Reptiles and in Birds, where so great freedom of motion as is required in terrestrial Quadrupeds would be inadmissible, the movements of this part of the skeleton are considerably restricted, and a kind of anterior pelvis formed which gives great strength and firmness to this part of the skeleton. The scapula? are generally laid like splints along the exterior of the chest, in which position they are, as it were, suspended by strong muscles; but frequently this arrange- ment is necessarily departed from for obvious reasons. In the Batrachia, for example, such as the Frog and the Toad, the ribs are altogether wanting, and the strength of the shoulder must consequently be provided for in a peculiar manner. The scapula' are enormously developed so as to perform, to a certain extent, the office of ribs; and, moreover, each being divided, as in Fishes, into two portions, united by cartilage to each other, the strength and resiliency of a chest is in some measure obtained. It is, however, in the Chelonian Reptiles that the most extraordinary deviation from the usual arrangement is witnessed, where the scapula? are absolutely placed in the interior of the thorax, where they are connected by one extre- tremity to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. No spine or acromial process exists in the scapula? of the oviparous Vertebrata, and even in, the quadrupedal Mammals these parts of the bone are very imperfectly developed when com- pared with their condition in Man, in whom alone they assume their full importance. The clavicle forms the second element em-