OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 825 Fig. 434. Skull of the Perch ( Perca fluviatilis), after Cuvler. an association of several osseous pieces, certain elements of a vertebra may be modified in position and proportions so as to perform the ordinary functions of others which may be atrophied or absent: thus in Fishes the inferior transverse processes are gradually bent down- wards until in the dorsal region their extremities meet and perform the functions of the haema- pophyses. From the vertebral elements named above every possible variety is presented by these bones throughout all the races of animals possessing them. The body alone (fig. 433, d) may be de- veloped without the addition of any of the other parts, as in the terminal bones of a Mammal's tail or of the human os coccygis, or the neura- pophyses may exist without an ossified body, as in some cartilaginous Fishes. The vertebra? of the human skeleton present body, neurapophy- ses, neural spine, and transverse processes, as do the rib-bearing vertebrae of the Fish. The caudal vertebra; of the Fish, in order to give the great vertical expansion required in this region of their skeleton, have the centre, the neura- pophyses, and neural spine as well as the hasmapophyses and haemal spine to the ex- clusion of the transverse, while in the earlier caudal vertebrae of the tail of the Crocodile (Jig. 433, gjall the elements enumerated exist in a medium state of developement. From these data, therefore, the osteologist is enabled to explain the composition of any vertebra that may be offered to his inspection ; nevertheless there are numerous apparent ex- ceptions which are well calculated to puzzle the student, met with, especially in the vertebrae of Serpents or of the neck of some Bi?-ds, where the processes are so complicated by the bifurcation of their extremities, or by foramina passing through their roots, or the great size of the articulating processes, or lastly, by the exuberant deposition of osseous matter in particular parts of the bone, that the greatest possible distortion may easily be produced without at all violating the prescribed laws in accordance with which the osseous system is organized. Not unfrequently indeed stunted ribs, or even derivations from the exoskeleton, may become consolidated with the proper vertebral elements in such a manner as not to be readily distinguishable from them, producing additional complications which are sometimes very embarrassing. Skull.—The osseous framework of the head appended to the anterior termination of the spinal column is by far the most complex part of the skeleton, being composed of very nume- rous bones connected together by suture or otherwise, but differing marvellously in then- Base of 'hill and opercular bones of Perch.