87 LACRYMAL ORGANS. removed and the papillary body then separated by a shaving cut through the surface of the conjunctiva. The papillae are seen under a microscope magnifying three hundred diame- ters, as yellowish red corpuscles standing close together, of an arched conical shape and pre- senting a round nucleus in their interior. Many of the papillae have short pedicles. Many present at their extremity a small point or fila- mentous prolongation which runs towards the epithelium. Henle* thinks Valentin's papillae are nothing but the corpuscles of the epithe- lium, presently to be noticed, distorted by the action of the compressorium. Itappears to me that Valentin's papillary body constitutes a structure of the same nature as the corpus Malpighianum of the skin. We know that such exists in the sclerotic conjunctiva from the circumstance that in negroes and many of the lower animals it is tinged of a black or brown colour, whilst in Isabella horses and in Swiss races among oxen it appears yellowish. Epithelium of the conjunctiva. The dis- covery of a characteristic structure in epithe- lium enables us to determine its existence even when so delicate as not be separable as a dis- tinct layer. It may appear merely as a tena- cious mucus little more than perceptible to the naked eye, but examined under the microscope it is found to consist of minute polygonal cells, flat and containing a central nucleus. These corpuscles aggregated together more or less closely and in greater or less quantity con- stitute the substance of epithelium. The epi- dermis is essentially of the same structure; as also the corpus Malpighianum, only when this is coloured, the cellules are found to contain colouring particles, as is remarkably the case in the black pigment of the eye, the small hexagonal bodies composing the membrane of which belong to the same category as the cor- puscles of the epithelium or corpus Malpi- ghianum. According to Valentin the epithelium of the conjunctiva consists of rhoinboidal or quad- rate cells lying close together, the boundaries of which are formed by simple lines. In every cell there is found without exception a some- what darker and more compact nucleus of a round or largish form. The average diameter of these cells, in the human eye, is about the two-thousandth of an inch. The nuclei are about half the size. Thickening of the epithelium takes place in ectropium and callous granulations. What is called cuticular conjunctiva is at the same time a general contraction of the whole conjunctiva with a thickened and dry state of the epi- thelium. Does the conjunctiva extend over the cornea ? Every one admits the existence of a layer on the anterior surface of the cornea, quite dif- ferent from its proper substance, and apparently a continuation of the conjunctiva covering the sclerotica, but this layer on the anterior surface * Symbol*: ad Anatomiam Villorum intestina- lium, imprimis eoiurn epilhclii ct vasorum ]ac- tcoriim, p. 8. 4to. bcrolini, 1837. of the cornea does not present exactly the same or at least all, the anatomical and chemical characters as the sclerotic conjunctiva. What of it can be raised is like epidermis or epithe- lium, coagulated and rendered white by the heat applied to separate it, and moreover it is not vascular, the vessels seen ramifying on the surface of the cornea in some inflammations being situated underneath it. What is the nature of the superficial layer of the cornea? It is composed of two lamellae. The more superficial constitutes a very fine but firm epithelium. According to Valentin, after sixteen or twenty-four hours' maceration, the epithelium separates from the cornea. The cells have in this case lost a little in transpa- rency and are somewhat distended. The nuclei appear more or less swollen by the action of the water. The other lamella situated under- neath the epithelium is more loose in its co- hesion, and is what Valentin considers the same structure as the papillary layer described by him in the ocular conjunctiva. Valentin says that a chorion or fibrous layer does not exist in the conjunctival extension over the cornea. The bloodvessels derived from the sclerotic conjunctiva run merely betwixt the papillary body and the surface of the proper substance of the cornea. They are very deli- cate and extremely difficult to inject. Rumor' has described the arteries of the con- junctiva cornea; from injections. The fine twigs of the arteries of the sclerotic conjunctiva unite together around the margin of the cornea into a vascular wreath or circle. From this there arise very numerous branches which run from the circumference towards the centre of the cornea, and in their course make two or three very fine subdivisions. Their ends bend distinctly inwards, and appear to penetrate the proper substance of the cornea. Having thus shown on the surface of the cornea the existence of an epithelium and a structure, called by Valentin a papillary body, similar to what is found on the surface of the sclerotic conjunctiva, as also a stratum of blood- vessels, we must admit a cellular support for those vessels, however delicate. If so, the bloodvessels and cellular tissue would consti- tute the essential elements of a chorion.f We can only explain the development of those ex- tensions of membrane like sclerotic conjunctiva, over the cornea by supposing an irregular and undue development or hypertrophy of these elements. The question, "Does the conjunctiva ex- tend over the cornea?" may be considered as answered in the affirmative by the above ana- tomical demonstration. Morbid anatomy now comes in advantageously with its corro- borative evidence. " Nothing is more in favour," says Eble, " of the existence of a con- * In Amnion's Zcitschrift lid. v. p. 21, Tabic 1 Fig. 9 and 11. Sec also Miiller's Archtv, 183f>; Jahrcsbeiicht, p. 28; and Hcnle Dc Membrana Pupillari, &c. Bonnas, 1832. + Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxi. p. 414, London, 1838; London Medical Gazette, vol. xxiii. pp. 571, 702, 815.