ORBIT. 784 noidal fissure. Entering the optic hole it divides into two portions, one forming a tu- bular sheath for the optic nerve, and becoming continuous with the sclerotica, the other form- ing the proper periosteum. Where it enters the sphenoidal fissure it also forms a sheath for the vessels and nerves which pass through that opening. At the anterior margin of the orbit this fibrous membrane divides into two por- tions, one becoming continuous with the pal- pebral ligament or fascia, the other with the periosteum of the forehead. The periosteum may now be removed, and the following parts are seen immediately be- neath it: in the middle line the frontal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, on the outer side the lachrymal branch of the same nerve, and on the inner side is the fourth nerve. Immediately under the fourth nerve is the superior oblique muscle; beneath the fron- tal nerve are the levator palpebrse and superior rectus, and below the lachrymal nerve is the external rectus muscle; beneath the external angular process is the lachrymal gland. Some branches of the ophthalmic artery are seen in this part of the orbit. A considerable quantity of soft fat exists in the orbit, filling up the intervals between the muscles and other parts; some of this must be removed before a clear view can be obtained of the parts which we have enumerated as being visible in this stage of the dissection. The lachrymal gland is contained in a de- pression on the roof of the orbit, beneath the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is generally about as large as a filbert, of an irregular ovoid form, with its long diameter placed transversely. Its upper surface is con- vex, and connected by means of fibrous pro- cesses to the periosteum; its under surface is concave, and is in relation with the external rectus muscle and the eye-ball. The excretory ducts of this gland, from ten to twelve in num- ber, run parallel to each other, and open by as many orifices beneath the upper lid, about a line from the tarsal cartilage. The fourth nerve enters the orbit by passing through the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure. At this point it is above the other nerves, which pass through the same opening. It then passes forwards and inwards immediately under the periosteum, crossing over the origin of the leva- tor palpebrse and superior rectus muscles, and it is distributed to the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle. The frontal nerve, a branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, enters the orbit with the fourth nerve, but a little below it and on its outer side. It passes forwards between the periosteum and the levator palpebree, and soon divides into two branches, internal and external frontal, or supra-trochleur, and supra-orbital. The supra-orbital is the larger branch ; it passes out through the supra-orbital notch or foramen, and divides into ascending frontal branches, usually two in number, which are distributed to the skin of the forehead, and descending palpe- bral filaments, which are very numerous and are distributed in the substance of the upper eyelid. The supra-trochlear nerve passes out of the orbit between the supra-orbital notch and the pulley of the superior oblique; it gives off ascending frontal filaments to the skin of the forehead, and descending palpebral and nasat filaments to the upper eyelid and dorsum of the nose. The lachrymal nerve is the smallest of the three divisions of the ophthalmic ; it enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure external and inferior to the frontal nerve ; in its passage through the sphenoidal fissure it is invested in a sheath of dura mater. It runs along the su- perior border of the external rectus muscle, immediately under the periosteum; it passes through the lachrymal gland, sending numerous filaments to it, and terminates by sending pal- pebral filaments to the upper lid, one of which passes on and is distributed to the skin of the anterior temporal region. In its course it gives off a malar branch, which passes through a canal in the malar bone and is distributed to the skin on the cheek ; it also sends down one or two filaments which anastomose with the superior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve.* We may now examine the three muscles which are placed most superficially in the upper part of the orbit, and which are visible in this stage of the dissection, viz. the levator palpebrse, the superior rectus, and the superior oblique. The levator palpebra superioris arises ten- dinous from the inferior surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone above the optic foramen, also from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; it passes forwards, and upwards, becoming broader and thinner towards the an- terior part of the orbit, where it suddenly curves downwards and ends in a broad thin apo- neurosis, which is inserted into the upper bor- der of the tarsal cartilage, behind the palpebral ligament. This muscle is of a triangular form, the apex being posterior; it is crossed by the fourth and frontal nerves, the latter passing for- ward above and parallel to it, and separating it from the periosteum; it covers the superior rectus and eyeball. In order to expose the superior rectus, cut through and turn aside the levator palpebrse ; in doing so a small branch of the third nerve is seen to enter its inferior surface. The rectus superior arises from the upper part of the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, and from the outer and upper part of the margin of the optic foramen; the fleshy fibres from this point of origin pass forwards and outwards in the direction of the axis of the orbit; the muscle becomes broader and thinner anteriorly, and ends in a broad aponeurotic expansion, which is inserted into the upper aspect of the sclerotic, a little behind the margin of the cornea. A small synovial bursa is said to exist between the sclerotic and the tendon at its insertion. This muscle is covered above by the levator pal- pebrse, and by the nerves which cross the levator palpebrse; below it is in relation with the nasal, * For a more minute account of the distribution of these branches of the fifth nerve, see article Fifth Nerve.