INSTINCT. 1(3 have every reason to believe that no other ani- mal can reflect on the possession of power in the abstract, or indulge in the imagination of scenes in which it is to be exerted, or rejoice in the acquisition of wealth of any kind, as the means of exercising power and procuring pleasure, independently of the actual enjoy- ment of them; but many of the practical exemplifications of this desire come into direct comparison with, and probably involve feelings very similar to, the instincts of animals. Thus the pleasure which men feel in exerting power over the elements around them may be seen, in the case of children, to be prior to the expe- rience of any practical advantage from the arts of architecture, of mechanics, or of navigation ; and it may be confidently asserted, that but for this pleasure attending the exercise of those arts (and which may be supposed to be very similar to that which animates the beaver, the bird, or the ant in their respective labours,) they could never have been prosecuted with success. So also the pleasure which man in all ages has felt both in hunting and destroying animals, and also in acquiring dominion over them and sub- jecting them to his power, is clearly quite different from the anticipation of the useful purposes to which, whether dead or living, they may be applied, and appears precisely similar, both in its nature and in its object or final cause, to some of the instincts of animals. Indeed, in conformity to what has been already said of the essential peculiarities of the human intellect, it is only those motives to action which imply the previous formation of general notions or abstract ideas, that we can regard as peculiar to man ; and we may accord- ingly state that the desire of knowledge (we may even say more specifically,- of scientific knowledge,' rerum cognoscere causas') and the sense of obligation religious and moral, are the motives to action which we believe to be truly peculiar to the human race. The most important instinct of animals refer- able to this head, clearly and strongly felt like- wise by man, (although combined in his case with many other feelings,) is the instinct of congregation. More or less of the desire of society is seen in a great majority of animals ; but we may refer to this head many actions of animals, wherein many individuals of the same species cooperate, of which the object is in many instances still obscure, but to which the animals are impelled with an energy, and fre quently a self-devotion, attesting the strength of the mental feeling, and completely super- seding their usual habits. Messrs. Spence and Kirby enumerate not less than five kinds of association of insects to form what they term imperfect societies. " The first of these associations (for the sake of company only) consists chiefly of insects in their perfect state. The little beetles called whirlwigs,—which may be seen clustering in groups under warm banks in every river and every pool, wheeling round and round with great velocity, at your approach dispersing and diving under water, but as soon as you retire resuming their accustomed movements,— seem to be under the influence of the social principle, and to form their assemblies for no other purpose than to enjoy together in the sun- beam the mazy dance. Impelled by the same feeling, in the very depth of winter, even when the earth is covered with snow, the tribes of Tipulida (usually but improperly called gnats) assemble in sheltered situations at mid-day where the sun shines, and form themselves into choirs that alternately rise and fall with rapid evolutions. " Another association is that of males during the season of pairing. Of this nature seems to be that of the cockchafer and fernchafer, which, at certain periods of the year and hours of the day, hover over the summits of the trees and hedges like swarms of bees. '• The males of another root-devouring beetle (Hoplia argentea, F.) assemble by myriads before noon in the meadows, when in these infinite hosts you will not find a single female. " The next description of insect associations is of those that congregate for the purpose of travelling or emigrating together. De Geer has given an account of the larvae of certain gnats (Tipula, L.) which assemble in considerable numbers for this purpose, so as to form a band of a finger's breadth, and of one or two yards in length. And what is remarkable, while upon their march, which is very slow, they adhere to each other by a kind of glutinous secretion. " Kuhn mentions another of the Tipulide, the larvae of which live in society and emigrate in files. " But of insect emigrants none are more celebrated than the locusts, which, when arrived at their perfect state, assemble in such numbers as in their flight to intercept the sun-beams and to darken whole countries, passing from one region to another, and laying waste kingdom after kingdom. " The same tendency to shift their quarters has been observed in our little indigenous devourers, the Aphides. " It is the general opinion in Norfolk, Mr. Marshall informs us, that the saw-fly ( Tenthre.do) comes from over sea. A farmer declared he saw them arrive in clouds so as to darken the air; the fishermen asserted that they had repeatedly seen flights of them pass over their heads when they were at a distance from land, and on the beach and cliffs they were in such quantities that they might have been taken up by shovels full. Three miles in- land they were described as resembling swarms of bees. " It is remarkable that of the emigrating insects here enumerated, the majority, for in- stance the Libellu'.ae, the Coccinellae, Carabi, Cicadae, &c. are not usually social insects, but seem to congregate, like swallows, merely for the purpose of emigration. " The next order of imperfect associations is that of those insects which feed together. " Two populous tribes, the great devastators of the vegetable world, the one in warm and the other in cold climates, to which I have already alluded under the head of emigrations