670 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres'. The Encephalon.) ingenuity he ascribes the passage of the nervous force (under the name of animal spirits)frorn one part to another, to the anatomical relations of those parts, and the direction of the consti- tuent fibres. And, indeed, we may find in the writings of this great man the germs of many a theory which, in our own times, has been brought forward with a more plausible aspect, disencumbered of the quaint phraseology and superabundant metaphor so common in his day. I shall quote one remarkable instance as very much in point. Speaking of the fourth pair of nerves as connected with the corpora quadragemina, he says: " Concerning these little nerves it is observed, that when (although) many others proceed from the sides or the basis of the oblong marrow, these arise from the aforesaid Prominences in the bunching forth at the top (nates and testes). The reason of which, if I be not mistaken, is this,—we have affirmed that these prominences do receive and commu- nicate to the brain the natural instinct delivered from the heart and bowels to the cerebel; and on the other side, or back again, do transfer towards the Pracordia, by the mediation of the cerebel, the forces of the passions or affections received from the brain ; but in either action the motion of the eyes is affected with a certain manifest sympathy. For if pain, want, or any other signal trouble afflicts the viscera or the pracordia, a dejected and cast-down aspect of the eyes will declare the sense of its trouble : when on the contrary, in joy, or any pleasant affection of the pracordia or viscera, the eyes are made lively and sparkle again. In like manner the eyes do so clearly show the affec- tions of the mind, as sadness, anger, hatred, love, and other perturbations, that those who are affected, though they should dissemble, cannot hide the feeling and intimate concep- tions of the mind. Without doubt these so happen because the animal spirits tending this way and that way in this deviating place be- tween the brain and the pracordia, do at once strike those nerves as the strings of a harp. Wherefore, from this kind of conjecture, which we have made concerning the use of these nerves, we have called them Pathetical, al- though indeed other nerves may deserve the same name."* Malpighi and Vieussens were well acquainted with the fibrous structure of the brain, and appear to have had very correct notions as to the general direction which they assume, and the parts which they serve to connect to each other. The former describes the fibres of the brain and cerebellum as taking their origin from the trough of the spinal marrow contained within the cranium (medulla oblongata); " for they ramify from four reflected crura of this medulla in all directions, until they end by their branched extremities in the cortex." Vieus- sens states that the medullary substance is com- posed of innumerable fibrils connected together and arranged into various fasciculi, which be- come veiy obvious when it is boiled in oil.f * English edition of Willis's Works, p. 90, fol. Lond. 1684. f Malpighi, Excrcitatio Epistohca de Cerebro, The great merit of Reil, Gall and Spurzheim, and their followers in later years, consists in their having followed out with great diligence the coarser anatomy of those fibres, and deter- mined many important and undeniable truths. But in the statements of all anatomists, who avail themselves of no other aid than that which the naked eye affords, there is much that must necessarily be uncertain or doubtful, nor is there any other mode of removing these un- certainties but by the successful application of microscopical analysis to the whole cerebral structure. Of the surface of the encephulon—We now proceed to examine the various points worthy of notice in the superficial anatomy of the encephalon. The shape of the brain is determined by that of the cerebral hemispheres. A line drawn around the surface of the latter, so as to enclose them, would describe an oval, the smaller ex- tremity of which is directed forwards. The superior and lateral surfaces of the encephalon are convex, and have a smooth appearance from the visceral layer of the arach- noid being extended over them, adhering to the subjacent pia mater. When the membranes have been removed, the convoluted character of these surfaces, previously seen through them, becomes very manifest, as will be more parti- cularly described by-and-bye. The longitudinal and transverse diameters of these surfaces cor- respond to those of the cranial cavity. The superior surface is divided along the median plane into two equal and in a great degree symmetrical portions by a fissure which passes vertically between them and receives the great falciform process of the dura mater. In front and behind, this fissure completely divides the central lobes. In the latter situation, the tentorium cerebelli is seen at the bottom of it when the hemispheres are separated, if the encephalon be in situ; if it have been removed, however, the superior surface of the cerebellum forms the floor of the fissure. In the middle the fissure is interrupted by a horizontal lamina of white fibres, which is called the corpus cal- losum, the great commissure of the cerebral hemispheres. The inferior surface of the encephalon also, called commonly the base of the brain, pre- sents many points worthy the attention of the anatomist. It is not all upon one level: in this respect it corresponds with the disposition of the base of the skull. We find, indeed, three segments, each on a different plane, and corresponding to each of the three fossa of the cranium. This is best observed by examining a vertical section of the head, the brain being retained in its situation, or by removing the wall of the cra- nium on one side quite down to its inferior surface. The anterior segment, and that which is on 1664. Vieussens, Neurographia Universalis, lib. i. cap. x. See the whole passages quoted in Dr. Gordon's Observations on the Structure of the Brain. Edin. 1817, p. 21.