266 MARSUPIALIA. Leyden Museum, the canines have a longitu- dinal groove on the outer side. The characteristic form of the trenchant pre- molar has just been alluded to : its maximum of development is attained in the arboreal Po- toroos of New Guinea (Hypsiprymnus ursinus and Hyps, dorcocephalus), in the latter of which its antero-posterior extent nearly equals that of the three succeeding molar teeth. In all the Potoroos the trenchant spurious molar is sculp- tured, especially on the outer side, and in young teeth, by many small vertical grooves. The true molars each present four three-sided pyramidal cusps; but the internal angles of the two opposite cusps are continued into each other across the tooth, forming two angular or concave transverse ridges. In the old animal these cusps and ridges disappear, and the grind- ing surface is worn quite flat, as in Jig. 91, which represents the dentition of the original Potoroo, described in White's Voyage. Genus MACROPUS. Kangaroos. In the genus Mucropus (fig. 92) the normal condition of the permanent teeth may be ex- pressed as follows:— t 3 — 3 0 — 0 Incisors, . ; canines, lars, molars, 0 — 0 = 28. premo- 1 — 1 '4 — 4 The main difference, as compared with Hyp- siprymnus, lies in the absence of the upper canines as functional teeth ; the germs, how- ever, of these teeth are always to be found in the young mammary feetus of the Macropits major, and I have seen them present, but of very small size, and concealed by the gum, in the adults of some small species of kangaroos, Fig. 92. Macropits major, one-third nat. size. as Macropus rujiventcr, Ogilby, and Macr. psilopus, Gould. This, however, is a rare ex- ception ; while the constant presence and con- spicuous size of the canines will always serve to distinguish the Potoroo from the Kangaroo. But there are also other differences in the form and proportions of certain teeth. The upper incisors of the Macropi have their cutting margins in the same line, the anterior ones not being produced beyond that line, as in the Hyp- siprymni: the third or external incisor is also broader in the kangaroos, and is grooved and complicated by one or two folds of the enamel, continued from the outer side of the tooth ob- liquely forward and inward. In most species the anterior fold is represented by a simple groove : the relative size of the outer incisor, the extent and position of the posterior fold of enamel, and consequently the proportions of the part of the tooth in front or behind it, vary more or less in every species of Macropus : there are two folds of enamel near the anterior part of the tooth in Macr. major, and the pos- terior portion is of the greatest extent, and the entire crown of the tooth is relatively broadest in this species. The middle incisor is here also complicated by a posterior notch and an external groove. These modifications of the external incisors of the kangaroos were first no^ ticed by Mr. Jourdan, and subgeneric distinc- tions, with names often sufficiently unmeaning, if not absurd,* have been subsequently based upon them; but such dental characters possess neither sufficient constancy nor physiological importance to justify such an application. M. Fr. Cuvier has proposed a binary divi- sion of the genus Mucropus, as here defined, founded on the absence of permanent spurious molars, and a supposed difference in the mode of succession of the true molars in certain spe- cies of Kangaroo, combined with modifications of the muzzle or upper lip, and of the tail. The dental formula which I have assigned to the genus Macropus is restricted in its ap- plication by that naturalist to some small spe- cies of Kangaroo, grouped together under the term Halmaturus, originally applied by Illiger to the Kangaroos generally .f The rest of the Kangaroos, under the generic term Macro- pus, are characterised by the following dental formula:—Incisors, -: molars, 1 = 24. 2 4 — 4 The truth, however, is, that both the Halmaturi and Macropi of M. Fr. Cuvier have their teeth developed in precisely the same num- ber and manner : they only differ in the length of time during which certain of these teeth are retained.! 1° the great Kangaroo, for exam- ple, the permanent premolar which suceeeds the corres- ponding deciduous one in the vertical direction, is pushed out of place and shed by the time the last * E. g. Bettongia, Gray, Petrogale, Gray, which signifies * rock weasel.' t Prodromus Systematis Mammalium et Avium, 8vo. 1811. The dental character which this ex- cellent naturalist gives, accurately expresses the condition of the canine or laniary teeth, " La- niarii aut nulli, aut superiores 2 ambigui, minuti, in medio inter primorcs et molares collocati,'' p. 80; but there are never more than five molars in place on each side of each jaw in the Kangaroo. X M. Fr. Cuvier was aware that a deciduous spu- rious molar existed in the great Kangaroo and other species of his subgenus Macropus, but he believed that it was peculiar to an early period of life, and then existed only in a rudimental state, or " en germe," and that instead of being displaced and