PACINIAN BODIES. 880 tice. The prisms of the electrical organ, as Hunter described, are divided by very nume- rous horizontal diaphragms into spaces con- taining a thin fluid, and on these diaphragms the nerves and vessels of the organ are ulti- mately distributed in great abundance. Each of these superposed diaphragms consists of a layer, possibly double, in and not upon which the nerves ramify. The nerves of the electrical organ have never any ganglia formed upon them. Their tubules always have the double contour which marks the presence of the white substance of Schwann. The ramifications pe- netrate between the prisms, and each diaphragm receives tubular fibres at several points of its circumference, though Savi is doubtful whether these are derived from two or more tubules of the branch supplying them. In the diaphragm, however, they are uniformly spread out in a network with five or six-sided meshes, the sides of which are everywhere formed by a single tubule with double contour of the same diameter and structure as the tubules of the trunk of the nerve. If this network is supplied from several different tubules, these tubules must be described as inosculating to form it; if from a single tubule, this must be regarded as again and again branching dichotomously, and the branches repeatedly anastomosing. Whichever be correct, the existence of a true network of ultimate nerve-tubes with double contour is certainly a fact of much importance, and hitherto unique; and it appears to be satisfactorily established by the repeated accu- rate observations of Savi. The series of superposed membranes in the prisms of the electrical organs may have an analogy with the concentric capsules of the Pacinian bodies. Their separation by inter- vening fluid is another point of resemblance. But in their relation to the nerves they are quite unlike. In the one, each membrane has a plane network of nervous tubules in its sub- stance ; in the other a single nerve-fibre is placed in the axis of a series of concentric membranes. The condition of the nerves is also different. In the one the white substance of Schwann everywhere invests the nerve ; in the other it is suddenly lost on entering the central capsule. The branching of the nerve- tubes in the electrical organ has a correspon- dence with the frequent tendency of the pale fibre of the Pacinian corpuscle to divide into two or more parts. On the whole, perhaps, the comparison may suffice to raise the ques- tion, whether the Pacinian corpuscles may not be organs designed to generate some kind of force, which the nervous communication with the centres may serve to connect either with volition or some emotional impulse or feeling.* There is another set of organs, however, in the electric torpedo, the discovery of which we owe to Savi, and which bear a closer resem- blance to the Pacinian corpuscles than the electric organs themselves. These are what he terms the follicular nervous apparatus, and * Henle and Kolliker endeavoured to elicit evi- dence of an electric discharge from the Pacinian bodies of the cat's abdomen, but without success. which I shall briefly describe nearly in his own words.* " This apparatus is found bordering the an- terior part of the mouth and nostrils, and ex- tends over the surface of the anterior part of the electrical organs, and over the front half of their outer edge, where it rests upon the carti- lage and aponeurotic coverings of the fin. Some parts of the apparatus are found on the back, but the greater portion on the ventral surface of the animal. It consists of extensive linear series of follicles, or closed membranous cells with double walls filled with a gelatinous fluid, and enclosing a small amorphous granular mass, which nearly resembles the amorphous grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres. A nervous branch gives some fibres to this granu- lar mass, while other similar fibres united into bundles pass out of the follicle, penetrate the grey mass of the adjoining follicle, and mingle with its nerve. " The nerves distributed to this apparatus come exclusively from the fifth pair, and more particularly from thebranchesspringing from the anterior portion of the root. Each follicle (fig. 486) is of a spheroidal form, slightly compressed on the side which adheres to the neighbouring fol- licle, and its diameter is about T'2th of an inch. I have found these dimensions the same in ani- mals of very different size. These follicles are never free or floating in the gelatinous fluid so abundant in these fishes : on the contrary, they are always firmly fixed, as if with a special view to their security, for they are planted on un- yielding aponeurotic expansions, like that of the muzzle, or else on fibrous bands extending along the fin, and having no other use. When the gelatinous fluid which envelopes these folli- cles is examined under the microscope, it is seen to contain numerous fibres passing in va- rious directions, and fixed to the surface of the follicles. " Each follicle is formed of two membranes (/ and g) which adhere together on the side towards the fibrous band which supports the organ, whilst on the opposite side they are separated by about a third of the vertical diameter of the follicle. These organs may be easily examined by a very slight magnifying power, it being only necessary in the first place to remove the investing gelatinous substance, and then to subject them to moderate compres- sion for the display of their interior. In a follicle thus compressed, we observe first the cut portion of the tendinous band cc, then the outer membrane enclosing the other, in which is the rounded granular mass e already men- tioned. This latter seems to rest upon the lower wall of the internal membrane. The ex- ternal membrane adheres by its lower border to the fibrous band beneath it in such a way, that between this external wall of the follicle and the internal is left a space, in which the nervous ramification d advances and adheres to the rounded mass of granular substance. " In the follicles of the longitudinal series of the fin, of which we here speak, the nervous * Op. cit. p. 332.