PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722H the lumbar portion perfectly whole, the sphincter will nevertheless be paralysed. In the former instances, the centre of volition in the cranium is diseased ; in the latter, the defect consists in the destruction of the communication of the brain with that portion of the cord in which the nerves of the sphincter muscle are im- planted. An examination of the action of the sphinc- ter will show, as has been already noticed, that the anus is kept closed ordinarily by the passive contraction of the muscle itself; but that its active contractions are mainly excited by vo- luntary influence, allowance being made for some slight action which may be produced by the stimulus of sudden distension, as in other circular muscles. Now, as a stimulus to sen- tient nerves constitutes no necessary part of any of these actions, it is probable that the motor nerves of the sphincter have little or no connection with the sentient ones; and, conse- quently, that muscle is not usually excitable to contraction by a stimulus appled to a sentient surface. Hence, whenever the influence of the will upon the lumbar portion of the cord is suspended, this muscle ceases to act, whether a mental or a physical stimulus be exerted. We have remarked before that all that is shown by Dr. Hall's experiments on the horse and on the turtle is that the spinal cord influ- enced the sphincter only whilst it was in a state of irritation consequent upon its division. There probably was no real reflex action at all, and the closure of the anus on the application of a stimu- lus was probably only apparently due to that cause, frequent contractions taking place in the muscle in effect of the irritated state of the cord. On the same principle, animals will exhibit movements of voluntary character for some time after decapitation, the continued irritation of the cord acting as a stimulus. A bird thus treated will fly for some distance, and with considerable energy, and will flap its wings if the cut surface of the cord be irritated. A fly decapitated pursues its course for some way immediately after the removal of the head; and Walckenaer observed a singular fact respecting the Cerccris ornuta,a wasp which attacks a bee that inhabits holes : " at the moment that the in- sect was forcing its way into the hole of the bee, Walckenaer decapitated it; notwithstanding which, it continued its motions, and, when turned round, endeavoured to resume its posi- tion and enter the hole."* The change in the vesicular matter of the ganglia necessary for the movements of the wasp in pursuit of its prey, had already been excited by a powerful stimulus of volition, which continued even after the removal of the centre from which it had emanated. Actions at first voluntary, which by frequent repetition become habitual and involuntary, are, no doubt, to be accounted for by the persistence of that condition of the vesicular matter which the will at first induced, and to which the frequency of repetition gives a character of permanence. Thus Habit is due, * Quoted in Muller's Physiology, by Baly, vol. i. p. 787*, 2nd ed. as it were, to the fixation of a certain state of vesicular matter'—it is the conversion of a men- tal into a physical nervous action by frequent repetition. So similar is the change which a physical stimulus can excite in the grey matter to that produced by the influence of the will, that, as has been often remarked, the actions excited in decapitated animals present a striking re- semblance to the ordinary voluntary move- ments. When a certain portion of the skin is irritated, the animal pushes against the offend- ing substance, as if trying to remove or dis- place it. If the anus be irritated, both legs are excited to action. It may also be observed, that the same motions follow the same irrita- tions of the skin. If, in a frog, the seat of irritation be on the right side, the correspond- ing hind-foot will be raised, as if to remove the irritating cause. The exact resemblance of these to voluntary movements seems to admit of being explained only on the suppo- sition that the same fibres are employed in the execution of both. It must be kept in view, that, while this hypothesis rejects the class of sensori-volitional fibres which are supposed to pass with the spinal nerves along the cord into the brain, it admits the existence of only three orders of fibres implanted in the various segments of the cord, viz. those at once sensitive and excitor; those at once for voluntary and involuntary motion ; and commissural fibres ; of which the former only contribute to form the uerves. It must not be supposed, however, that it is intend- ed by this hypothesis to assume that the inter- vention of sensation (i. e. the perception of an impression by the mind) is necessary for the production of those muscular actions which are excited by stimulation of the surface. No more is affirmed than that the same stimulus to the sensitive nerve which can and does excite a sensation, may simultaneously, but independently, cause a change in the vesicular matter which shall stimulate the motor nerves; and that this change is of the same kind as that which the will may excite, and affects the same motor nerves. Lastly, this hypothesis involves the enun- ciation of a highly important proposition with reference to nervous centres. It is this: that all the centres which are connected to the brain by commissural fibres, are thereby submitted to, and brought into connection with, the mind, to an extent proportionate to the number of connecting fibres, so that voluntary impulses act upon them as part and parcel of the centre of volition; and sensitive impressions, in af- fecting them, affect the mind simultaneously. In voluntary actions, then, it may be stated that, while the brain is the part primarily af- fected, the mental impulse is also directed to that portion of the cord upon which the required action depends. In the developement of sensation the stimu- lus affects the posterior horns of the grey matter of the cord, which, from its commissural con- nection with the brain, is in reality a part of the sensorium. When the power of mental