NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) 674 wards, and a little backwards. As the brain rests on the upper surface of its hemispheres with its base upwards, the medulla oblongata is seen to occupy" a notch or depression be- tween the hemispheres of the cerebellum. The fibres of the pons Varolii are seen passing out- wards and backwards into each hemisphere of the cerebellum, forming the inferior layer of each crus cerebelli. On each side of the me- dulla oblongata is the inferior convex surface of each hemisphere of the cerebellum marked by its fissures and laminse. The basilar artery passes in a groove along the middle of the pons from before backwards. The fifth nerve emerges from the crus cerebelli, the sixth immediately below the posterior margin of the pons, and the seventh, eighth, and ninth nerves are seen springing from each/ side of the medulla by a series of fascicles similar to those which form the roots of the spinal nerves. Of the dissection of the brain from above downwards.—It will facilitate our subsequent descriptions, if, previous to examining the se- veral segments of the encephalon in detail, I give a rapid sketch of the dissection of the brain according to the topographical method, proceeding from above downwards. This dissection is commenced by making a horizontal section of one hemisphere, a little above the level of the corpus callosum. The surface, which is thus exposed, has in shape the character of a demi-oval. It is chiefly com- posed of white substance, which occupies the centre of the space, bounded by a wavy border of grey matter. Anatomists designate it cen- trum ovale minus. We find this is a convenient section on which to study the anatomy of the convolutions, and to give some idea of the composition of that portion of the hemispheres of the brain which is situate above the ventricles. On making a similar section of the other hemi- sphere at the same level, a similar surface is exposed, and the conjunction of both con- stitutes what Vieussens denominated the cen- trum ovale majus. By sepatating the hemispheres slightly, after this section, the horizontal portion of the cor- pus callosum is well displayed. The con- tinuity of its transverse fibres with the white substance of the hemispheres may be traced; and by following its anterior and posterior reflections they will be found to connect the hemispheres at their inferior as well as their superior parts. The corpus callosum, when examined in its full extent, exhibits somewhat of a vaulted shape, and is found to enter largely into the formation of the roof of the lateral ventricles. We notice some remarkable longitudinal fibres, passing along the middle of the corpus callosum, varying greatly in developement in different brains. These consist of two bundles placed in juxta-position, but easily separable. We may trace them throughout the whole length of the corpus callosum. They cut the trans- verse fibres at right angles, and may be readily dissected up from them. They seem to tie the transverse fibres together, and are probably com- missural. They form what has been improperly called the raphe of the corpus callosum, more correctly the longitudinal tracts (Vicq d'Azyr). By scraping away the white substance, on each side of the corpus callosum, the lateral ventricles may be opened. If this be done with great care, a considerable portion of the membrane that lines the interior of each ven- tricle may be exposed, but such is its great delicacy that a very slight force ruptures it. When there is fluid in the ventricles, this membrane may be more easily demonstrated from its floating upon the fluid. The place at which the ventricles may be most certainly opened without the risk of injuring any of the parts contained within them, is about the eighth of an inch external to the blending of the fibres of the corpus callosum with the white substance of the centrum ovale. With the handle of a knife the fibrous matter which forms the roof of the ventricle may be torn through in the antero-pos- terior direction, and the cavity thereby exposed. Each lateral ventricle consists of a horizontal and a descending portion. The former re- sembles in shape an inverted italic S. Its an- terior extremity, or cornu, is directed outwards; the posterior turns inwards towards that of the opposite side. The descending cornu passes downwards, forwards, and inwards in a curved course with the concavity forwards and inwards, and terminates at the fissure of Sylvius. The first has been appropriately designated the frontal ventricle, the second the occipital, and the third the sphenoidal, from their relations to the bones after which they have been respec- tively named. The posterior cornu is also named the digital, or ancyroid cavity. The anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles are separated from each other by a vertical sep- tum situated on the median plane, very thin and transparent, the septum lucidum. This may be easily demonstrated on a vertical sec- tion of the brain, made a little to one side of the mesial plane, or if both lateral ven- tricles have been opened, by supporting the corpus callosum on each side with the handle of a knife, by which means the septum is stretched, and its extent and connections may be more readily determined. The septum is of a triangular form with curvilinear base, which is directed forwards, and fits into the anterior reflection of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly it fits in between the corpus callosum and the anterior extremity of the horizontal portion of the fornix. The septum lucidum, although so extremely delicate and transparent, is very obviously com- posed of two layers, which enclose a space or cavity called the fif th ventricle. This may be shewn by dividing the septum horizontally from behind forwards. Each of these laminae con- sists, as may be easily observed by examining the margin of the section, of four layers: the outer one is derived from the lining membrane of the ventricles; immediately within this is a layer of a pale greyish matter continuous with a similar layer which covers the optic thalami and the internal surface of the third ventricle, consisting of clear nucleus-like particles homo- geneous in texture; a third layer is composed