652 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Ckntk.es. The Spinal Cord.) part in the new-born infant. The actual weight of the spinal cord in an adult male may be stated to be a little more than one ounce. We may here again notice the interesting fact that there is a great disproportion between the size of the spinal cord and that of the ver- tebral canal, and that consequently a consider- able space is found between the cord and its membranes which is occupied by the cerebro- spinal fluid. The consistence of the medullary substance of the spinal cord, in the fresh state, is of much greater firmness than that of the brain. This lasts, however, but for a very short time, for decomposition sets in quickly, and then the cord acquires a pultaceous consistence, and the nervous matter may be easily squeezed out of the sheath of pia mater in which it is en- closed. The pia mater adheres very closely to the surface of the cord, as intimately as the neu- rilemma to a nerve. In order to examine the surface of the cord, the best mode of proceeding- is to dissect oif the pia mater carefully, the cord having been fixed under water. The dis- sector will then perceive that numerous minute vessels, accompanied by delicate processes of the membrane, penetrate the cord at all points from the deep surface of the pia mater, and to this is due the adhesion of this membrane above-mentioned. This arrangement may also be shewn by dissolving out the nervous matter through the action of liquor potassae. The pro- longations from the deep surface of the sheath may be shewn by floating the preparation in water. The spinal cord is penetrated both on its anterior and posterior aspect by fissures, each of which corresponds to the median plane. They are separated from each other by a trans- verse bilaminate partition of white and grey matter, of which the grey layer is posterior. Tins serves to connect the equal and symme- trical portions into which the cord is divided by these fissures. The anterior fissure is very distinct and easily demonstrated. A folded portion of the pia mater may be traced into it down to the commissure. The edges of this fold, as it enters the fissure, are connected by a band of white fibrous tissue, which may be traced through the whole length of the cord on the exterior of the pia mater, and indicates pre- cisely the position of the anterior fissure, and which covers the anterior spinal artery. When this fold is carefully removed, the floor of the fissure becomes apparent, formed of a lamina of white nervous matter. This layer is per- forated by a great number of minute orifices, which give to it quite the cribriform character, and are for the reception and transmission of bloodvessels. In many parts the layer appears to be composed of oblique and decussating fibres, as if the same kind of decussation which occurs at the lower part of the medulla oblongata extended through the whole length of the cord. There is not, however, any real decussation : the appearance of it results from the foramina not being always on the same level. For, in those places where they lie quite on a level with each other, no one could sup- pose that such an arrangement of fibres ex- isted. Here, as elsewhere, the fibres assume the transverse direction. The depth of the anterior fissure is not the same all down the cord ; it gradually diminishes towards its lowest point; its deepest part, however, corresponds to the cervical enlargement, and here it is about one-third of the thickness of the cord measured from before backwards. The whole cribriform layer which forms the floor of the anterior fissure constitutes a commissure between the lateral halves of the cord in their whole length. It is called the anterior or white commissure of the cord. The posterior fissure is very much finer and more difficult to demonstrate than the anterior. It is not penetrated by a/i)/d of the pia mater : a single and very delicate layer of that mem- brane is continued from its deep surface down to the floor of the fissure. It is at this situa- tion that the spinal pia mater assumes the appearance and character of that of the brain. Here and there, within the fissure, the pia mater appears interrupted and the vessels extremely few, and in such situations the fissure becomes very indistinct and difficult to recognise. The process of pia mater becomes extremely deli- cate towards the lowest extremity of the cord. The posterior fissure is deeper than the an- terior. Through a great part of its course it is equal to fully one-half of the thickness of the cord ; in the lumbar region, however, its depth is very much less. Its floor is formed by a layer of grey matter, which connects the cine- ritious matter of each lateral half of the cord, and which is called the grey commissure. In the lumbar region, however, it does not appear to reach the grey commissure. Arnold denies the continuity of the posterior fissure through the greater part of the cervical and dorsal regions. According to his figures it ceases on a level with the second cervical nerve and reappears about the second dorsal vertebra. This does not at all accord with my observation, nor is it confirmed by any anatomist that I know of. It appears to me that the continuity of the fissure might be more properly ques- tioned at the lowest third of the cord, where it is often so feebly developed as to elude de- tection. In three out of four specimens now before me, the fissure is sufficiently distinctly marked down to quite the lowest extremity of the cord, and the posterior columns separate readily from each other along it. In the fourth, which is quite recent, the fissure at the lowest part of the cord is only to be distinguished here and there by a solitary red vessel pass- ing to the grey commissure, and is most distinct in the cervical region. Those spe- cimens which shew it well have been hard- ened in a preserving liquid, which, by con- stringing the substance of the posterior columns, renders the fissure much more distinct. There seems little doubt that the posterior columns have no connexion with each other as far down as the lumbar region. Below that, however, it is not improbable that they may be united across