732 NOSE. in the opposite direction, it joins the other roots to form part of the pyramid. The middle root* arises between the two preceding roots, and first appears in two or three bands of fibres just in front of the sub- stantia perforata antica, whence they proceed forwards to join the other roots. Each of these roots is connected with grey matter prolonged from the surface of the ante- rior lobe and the fissura Sylvii, and especially from two slight elevations, one of which lies in the concavity of the internal, the other in that of the external, root, as they severally turn for- wards where they join the middle root. The grey matter connected with the external root covers part of its origin, is continued along both its sides, and conceals more or less the filaments which join its outer border. Then connecting itself with the grey matter around the fibres of the middle root, they pass forwards together, and are lost near the apex of the pyra- mid ; part of them entering its substance, but a greater portion forming a thin layer (propagq ciner-ea externa) which covers its surfaces, especially the upper one. The grey matter connected with the inner root conceals many of the fasciculi of its origin, and two streaks pro- ceed from it, of which one passes into the inte- rior of the pyramid, separating the internal and middle roots, and the other, of much larger size, is continued over its surface. This latter is the middle or grey root of Cloquet, &c. (the propago cinerea interna.) It has a somewhat pyramidal form, and covers a part of both sur- faces of the pyramid, but chiefly the upper surface. Its deepest edge penetrates to the middle root, and its outer edge sometimes joins the superficial layer covering the other roots. As it proceeds forwards it becomes more and more slender ; and it is prolonged further on the upper than on the lower surface of the pyramid, near the apex of which it ceases. Thus, the pyramid of the olfactory nerve is formed by three fasciculi of white filaments, separated by streaks of grey matter, by which also it is covered on both its borders and on a great part of its upper surface. It is between two and a half and three lines long ; its base lies in the angle where the two internal convolutions of the anterior lobe diverge; and at its anterior extre- mity, becoming gradually smaller and flatter, it is continued into that which may be called the trunk of the nerve, the tractus olf 'aclorius. This is nearly flat: it is grooved along the middle of its under surface, which rests on the upper part of the body of the sphenoid bone, and has a ridge, * Confusion has arisen in the use of this name. The root here meant is that called middle root by Soemmering, Sir C. Bell, Mr. Swan, and Valentin. Weber and Hildebrandt, and Cloquet call that mid- dle or grey root which lies above the others, and forms a thin grey band on the upper surface of the nerve : and under the internal root they include, as Haller and oihers did, who described only two roots, both the internal and middle ones. The names here adopted are preferable, because the white fasciculi alone could properly be regarded as roots of a nerve, they alone being continued to the branches, and because their arrangement is more constant than that of the grey matter. or is altogether convex upon its upper surface, which lies in the groove between the convolu- tions. It is striated in its whole length, and nearly white; though some grey matter is col- lected within the meshes of the plexuses, which its fibres form as they proceed forwards and a little inwards towards the bulb in which they expand. After long immersion in spirit, the groove on the under surface of the trunk, which, in the recent state, varies much in depth in different persons, always becomes deeper and more distinct. Valentin* suggests that it indicates the course of the canal which in the human embryo passed from the lateral ventricle to the end of the olfactory bulb. The analogue of this canal is persistent in the olfactory nerves of lower Mammalia; but there is no sufficient evidence of its having been ever seen in the human adult; at least in this part of the nerve.f The bulb of the olfactory nerve is a nearly elliptical flat body, about half an inch long, slightly furrowed above, convex on its lower surface, and evenly rounded in front. It rests upon the dura mater covering the cribriform plate; its inner margin is in contact with that covering the crista galli, and with the anterior part of the falx cerebri; by which alone it is separated from the bulb of the opposite side. It is of a greyish-red colour from the quantity of grey nervous matter which is placed upon its surface and among the plexuses formed by the nervous filaments within it. In its interior a small cavity or ventricle may be generally detected by a vertical antero-posterior section : it is the remains of the embryonic condition just alluded to. From the lower surface of the bulb proceed the numerous branches of the olfactory nerve. They vary much in number and size both in different persons, and on the two sides of the same individual; a want of symmetry which may often be seen in the perforations of the cribriform plate. The ordinary number of branches is from fifteen to twenty on each side. Each of them, invested by a very delicate neu- rilema, passes through an aperture in the cribri- form plate, through which also a tubular pro- longation of the dura mater passes and becomes continuous with the periosteum of the nasal fossa?. The nerves, which become rather firmer when they have passed through the cribriform plate, ramify between the periosteum and the mucous membrane, and are divisible into two chief sets, some being placed upon the septum, others upon the outer wall of the nose. The internal or septual branches are about twelve in number. After passing through the cribriform plate, they diverge a little as they descend; the anterior going somewhat forwards, the posterior backwards. The trunks soon, and often while within the foramina of the cribri- form plate, break up into tufts of filaments, which unite into plexuses with long and narrow quadrilateral meshes; and from these, smaller * Soemmering, Vom Baue des Menschl. Kor- pers. Bd. iv. p. 299. + See on this question Cloquet's Ospliresiologie, aad Metzjjcr's Historia.