721i PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. hip are those primarily irritated: there is no connection at the periphery between these nerves and those of the knee; both, however, are of spinal origin, and must be implanted near to each other in the spinal cord. This, then, is the only situation at which any com- munication may be established between them, and it is probable that that communication takes place through the vesicular matter in which both are implanted. The irritation from the hip, then, extends to the cord; it is there propagated to the vesicular matter in which the nerves of the knee are implanted : in other words, it is reflected to them, and thus pain is referred to the peripheral extremity of those nerves, in conformity with the known law of sensitive nerves, and in this way the pain is felt in the knee. A similar explanation applies to the other cases referred to. There is no other mode of explaining these phenomena consistently with the known dispo- sition and properties of nerve-fibres; and as experiment demonstrates the reflecting power of the cord from sensitive to motor, we are justified in referring these phenomena to a simi- lar reflecting power from sensitive to sensitive nerves. We shall see further on that other nervous centres possess the same power. The functions of the body with which the spinal cord is immediately concerned are the following:—-1. The voluntary movements and sensations of the trunk and extremities, and of the viscera contained in the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. For these, however, the integrity of its connection with the brain is necessary. 2. The physical actions, or, in other words, the involuntary movements of the trunk and extre- mities. 3. The actions necessary for locomotion, which are a combination of mental and physical nervous actions. 4. The physical actions of some of the internal organs. These are the heart, the intestinal canal, the bladder, and the genera- tive organs, both male and female. The influence of the spinal cord over all these organs is, how- ever, very limited, and inasmuch as they have a considerable degree of inherent muscular power, as well as receive nerves connected with other centres, namely, the sympathetic ganglia, they are in a great degree independent of the cord. Dr. M. Hull's doctrines.—Using the term spinal cord to designate a centre or axis of physical nervous actions (the true spinul cord), provoked by " excitor" nerves of the head, neck, trunk, and extremities, and of parts con- nected with them, Dr. Marshall Hall assigns to it very extended functions. " Every act of ingestion, of retention, of expulsion, or of exclusion," says this physiolo- gist,* " is a reflex act; an excito-motor act, an act of the true spinal system, performed through its incident nerves, its central organ (the true spinal marrow), and its reflex motor nerves; an act of the special power seated in this sys- tem." * * * * * " If we wish, then, to know what are the special acts of the true spinal system, we have only to ask what are the acts by means of which masses of matter * "New Memoir on (he Nervous System, 1843, p. 51, $ 191-192. are ingurgitated into and expelled from the animal economy." And in a table which fol- lows these paragraphs, and which is intended to display at one view the physiology of the true spinal system (so called), he refers to this source, I. The excited actions: 1, of the iris and eyelids ; 2, of the orifices—the larynx and the pharynx ; 3, of the ingestion (l,of thefood, as in suction and in deglutition; 2, of the air in respiration ; 3, of the semen or conception) ; 4, of exclusion ; 5, of the expulsion or of eges- tion (1, of the feces; 2, of the urine ; 3, of the perspiration ; 4, of the semen ; 5, of the foetus or parturition) ; 6, of the sphincters (1, of the cardia; 2, the valvula Coli ? (sic); 3, the sphincter ani; 4, the sphincter vesica?). II. The direct action or influence: 1, in the tone; and 2, in the irritability of the muscular system.* I shall content myself here with pointing out how slight are the grounds upon which so large a function is assigned to the spinal system, and so exclusive a view is taken of the various ac- tions which are affirmed to be under its control. Further on I hope to show that the hypothesis of a special centre (the true spinal narrow) with its incident and reflex nerves is inadequate to the explanation of the phenomena of the ner- vous system. A careful analysis of the various acts of in- gestion, &c. will show that they cannot be regarded entirely as reflex acts. Thus the in- gestion of food is effected by prehension, which is voluntary, by suction,.as in the young, which is partly voluntary and partly reflex, and by deglutition. Now this last act is partly volun- tary, as in the mouth; when the food has been brought within the grasp of the fauces it is reflex, and that portion of the act which takes place in the oesophagus is partly reflex and partly due to the influence of the stimulus of distension upon the muscular coat. The most purely physical portion of the act of deglutition is that which takes place in the vicinity of the rima glottidis, which, if not regulated by very exact physical changes, and if not, in a great degree at least, independent of mind, might frequently endanger the life of the individual by the deviation of the morsel of food from its proper course, so as to plug up or encroach upon the orifice which leads to the respiratory organs, f The act of respiration is undoubtedly essen- tially reflex, but it is likewise very much under the control of the will, and may at any time be increased or diminished in frequency under the influence of either volition or emotion. In conception, or what Dr. Hall calls the ingestion of semen, I am at a loss to conceive what reflex act can occur. The grasping of the ovary by the extremity of the Fallopian tube is more likely to be an act of emotion due to the general sexual excitement than a reflex phe- nomenon excited by the stimulus of coition. And as to the ingestion of the seminal fluid, that * Loc. cit. p. 52. t Here we notice the operation of the law of our preservation, which, according to Prochaska, regu- lates these reflex acts.