924 PERINEUM. sibility of rendering the urethra straight by simple traction of the penis. The true suspensory ligament is calculated by its position and strength to prevent the surgeon from depressing the penis sufficiently to straighten the urethra, and in the dead sub- ject no force so applied, short of what suffices to tear the ligament in question and to rupture partially the attachment of the crura penis to the bones, can efface the curvature of the pos- terior segment of the canal, but if the suspen- sory ligament be divided by the knife, and if at the same time the crura penis be detached ever so little from the pubis, the slightest trac- tion exercised subsequently upon the penis renders the urethra perfectly straight. The writer by no means intends to deny that cathe- terism by straight instruments is a feasible operation : to straighten the urethra by drawing the penis in certain directions, and without any other aid, is one thing, and to introduce a straight instrument into the bladder along the urethra is a totally different matter; to accom- plish the former, either in the living or the dead subject, so long as the true suspensory ligament is uninjured and the crura penis re- tain their attachments, will be found absolutely impossible, whilst the latter operation may very generally be performed by any surgeon who possesses ordinary dexterity. The princi- ple on which the introduction of straight in- struments is effected admits of ready explana- tion. By raising the penis as before described the operator renders the urethra, from the glans to the bulb inclusive, perfectly straight, and therefore the staff traverses the passage so far without impediment, but any attempt to force it farther in the same direction would rupture the lower wall of the urethra, and pro- pel the point of the instrument towards the rectum. The hinder portion of the canal leads upwards and backwards to the bladder, and it therefore remains to be explained how a straight instrument, occupying the spongy part of the urethra, and with its point directed downwards and backwards towards the rectum, can have its course so changed as to pass upwards and backwards to the bladder. The solution of the problem is easy: the handle of the instrument is first drawn forwards so as to form a right angle with the pubis, and then depressed until it becomes nearly parallel with the patient's thighs, whilst at the same time an onward movement is communicated to it, whereby the point glides upwards and backwards into the bladder. In these movements the staff ob- viously represents a lever of the first order, the fulcrum formed by the lower wall of the ure- thra opposite to the true suspensory ligament of the penis, and the beak of the instrument being elevated as its handle is depressed. In addition to its curvature, that part of the urethra which belongs to the perineum pre- sents other features of interest to the surgical anatomist. In the dead subject its diameter is naturally far from uniform, whilst in the living its calibre is exceedingly liable to vary, accord- ing to the contraction or relaxation of the muscular expansions which in certain situations invest it. Its parietes also exhibit in many places peculiarities of organisation calculated to embarrass the surgeon, and therefore some further notice of this part of the canal becomes here necessary. The prostatic portion of the urethra is an inch and a quarter or at most an inch and a half in length. In the adult it takes an oblique direction from above and behind downwards and forwards; but in the aged subject it runs more horizontally, a change produced by the developement of the " bas fond" of the bladder; and in the child its course is nearly vertical in consequence of the position of the bladder, at that period of life. The prostatic urethra is slightly contracted at each extremity, whilst in the in- termediate space it is somewhat widened, the dilatation being most observable near its lower wall. The verumontanum or caput gallina- ginis, a prominent fold of mucous membrane, extends in the middle line along the floor of this part of the canal: it exhibits anteriorly a depression named the sinus pocularis, the orifice of which is directed forwards, whilst on either side the aperture of the common ejaculatory duct usually opens. The verumontanum is placed between two deep depressions called the prostatic sinuses ; these contain numerous orifices of the prostatic ducts, a few only being observable on the upper wall of the urethra. At the posterior extremity of each sinus a transverse fold of mucous membrane, of which the free concave margin looks forwards, may be occasionally observed; this has been called the " pyloric valve" by M. Amussat; but in the majority of subjects no such structure exists, and when present it is generally occasioned by an incipient enlargement of the third lobe of the prostate gland, which, projecting upwards from below, elevates the mucous membrane at either side, so as to produce the valvular arrangement in question. From this brief exposition it follows that many impediments to catheterism may be en- countered in the prostatic portion of the urethra. The ducts which open upon its walls having their orifices mostly directed forwards, are sometimes morbidly enlarged, when they might easily arrest the point of a fine bougie; whilst the prostatic sinuses forming depressions below the level of the floor of the urethra and the folds of mucous membrane just described, are also calculated at times to entangle a small- sized instrument. Most of these impediments are situated along the floor of the urethra, and from their very nature they are likely to obstruct none but the smallest instruments. To avoid them, therefore, the surgeon should if possible select an instrument of large size and direct the point along the upper wall of the passage. The difficulties of catheterism are sometimes vastly increased by disease of the prostate gland, but obstructions of that description are beyond the scope of this article. The remarkable sympathy so constantly observed in practice between the testicle and the urethra is explained by the manner in which the lining membrane