ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 818 A mixture of two parts of quicklime and one of hydrate of soda is prepared by slaking some well-burned lime with the necessary quantity of a solution of soda; the whole is evaporated to dryness, ignited, the dry mass pulverized as quickly as possible, and then transferred to well-stopped bottles, in order to exclude carbonic acid and moisture. When an analysis is to be made we proceed as usual, making the mixture in a warm mortar, only substituting the alkalized lime for oxide of copper; the accidental presence of a little moisture, after the weight of material for ana- lysis is accurately known, is of no consequence in this case. Having introduced the mixture, it is better loosely to plug the aperture of the retort with a few fibres of asbestus (which has been ignited just before) to prevent any mechanical trans- port of the mixture into the apparatus through which the gases are passed ; on applying heat to the combustion-tube in the ordinary way, and with the usual precautions, the substance is decomposed, and the whole of the nitrogen escapes as ammonia. The drying tube and potash apparatus are dispensed with, •and the Fig. 431. A. —a, mouth of the combustion-tube ; b, three- legged brass tube furnished with the stop-cock (e); d, d, caoutchouc connectors; e, glass tube, upwards of 30 inches long, recurved at the lower extremity for delivering gas in the mercurial trough. B. —Bulb-tube for containing hydrochloric acid in the determination of nitrogen by the method of Varrentrapp and Will. C. —a, mouth of the combustion - tube ; b, caoutchouc connector ; c, gas delivering tube. ammonia is collected by attaching a bulb-tube of the form represented (jig- 431, B), air-tight with a good cork, to the retort-tube, the apparatus having been previously charged with hydro- chloric acid sp. gr. 1.1, as high as the lines in the figures indicate. Pure hydrochloric acid is easily procured for this purpose by diluting the ordinary acid of the shops till it has a sp. gr. of 1.1, and distilling in glass ves- sels—the first eighth may be rejected. Dis- tillation may be proceeded with until three- quarters of the acid employed have passed over. It is better for the operator always to rectify his own acid, in order to be quite sure of the absence of any trace of am- monia. The tube connecting the bulbs should be somewhat larger in diameter than that of the ordinary potash apparatus, in order to allow the liquid to be poured out readily. When the operation is complete, absorption will take place and the fluid rise in the bulb nearest the fire; at this moment we nip off the top of the combustion-tube and draw air carefully through the apparatus in the usual way. When the combustion is terminated, the contents of the bulb-tube are emptied into a small evaporating dish, and the apparatus washed out first with a little alcohol and ether, and afterwards several times with water; some solution of bichloride of platinum is added, and the whole evaporated to dryness by a water-bath or chloride of cal- cium bath; when dry, it is digested with a mixture of two parts of alcohol, sp. gr. 833, and one of ether, which dissolves the excess of bichloride of platinum, and leaves the double chloride of platinum and ammonium in a crys- talline form. This must now be brought upon a weighed filter, (or better, upon two filters, one of which has been counterpoised against the other,) and washed repeatedly with the mixture of two parts of alcohol and one of ether until nothing further is taken up; the precipitate and filters must be dried by a water heat and the weight accurately observed. According to Varrentrapp and Will, 220.52 grs. of the ammonia-chloride are equivalent to 14 grs. of nitrogen ; the esti- mate of these writers is too high, and 225 grs. are more nearly equal to one equivalent or 14 grs. of nitrogen. Practically, however, their calcu- lation is very near the truth, as during the operation a minute quantity of hydrochlorate of ammonia escapes uncondensed, and the two errors compensate each other. This method of determining nitrogen an- swers for all cases excepting those in which it occurs in the form of nitric acid, when it must be determined by volume and its weight thence deduced. For this purpose the process of Dumas is the most trustworthy. A retort tube of about twenty inches long is employed ; not drawn out into a tail, but sealed with a rounded extremity; about two inches of the tube are filled with carbonate of copper or of lead, and then the mixture with oxide of copper added and covered as usual with a layer of pure oxide; beyond this the last two or three inches of the tube are filled with clean copper turn- ings, as already directed, to decompose any of the oxides of nitrogen which may be formed. The retort tube is then connected with a three- legged apparatus of brass or copper (fig. 431, A, b), one limb of which is furnished with a stop- cock (r). The connection with the retort is