ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 817 VOL. III. 3 G . capillary neck of the bulbs inverted into the liquid; the bulbs are then warmed by the flan:e of a spirit-lamp, so that on cooling they shall be about three-fourths filled with the liquid. The necks are now sealed by the blowpipe- flame, and the bulbs again weighed ; the in- crease of weight gives the quantity of the liquid which has entered, and which is to be analysed. The oxide of copper having been heated, and allowed to cool with the usual pre- cautions, about an inch and a half of the retort is filled with pure oxide ; we then take one of the bulbs, draw a file across the capillary neck, put the bulb into the tube, break off the neck by pressure against the glass, and drop the broken portion in with the bulb; we then pour in a couple of inches of oxide of copper, introduce the second bulb in the same manner as the first, and fill up the tube with oxide, cork it and strike it smartly on the table as before to secure free air-way. The combustion- tube is now connected with the exhausting syringe, but no heat applied; on gently working the syringe, the air and vapour in the bulbs will expand and drive out the liquid, which will be quickly absorbed by the oxide of copper around ; we adjust the apparatus in the furnace as before, and gradually heat the upper half of the tube; when this is red, wc vola- tilize the fluid by cautiously approximating a piece of ignited charcoal, taking especial care not to heat the tube too much ; by degrees all the liquid in the first bulb is expelled, and we proceed in like manner with the other; the whole tube is finally heated carefully, and the after part of the process conducted in the manner already described. If the liquid be not volatile, an oily acid for example, a small vessel is made by taking a piece of glass tube about a quarter of an inch in diameter, sealing one end, and while hot press- ing it on a flat surface, so as to make a firm basis on which it may stand upright; it should be cut off the tube so that the little vessel be about an inch high. It is weighed at first empty, and a second time with the liquid for analysis; an inch or two of oxide of copper is put into the combustion-tube, then the vessel with the liquid. On inclining the tube suffi- ciently, the liquid runs out and is made to diffuse itself over the inner surface of the lower half of the tube, which is to be filled with oxide of copper, and the analysis to be cautiously proceeded with in the usual way. Substances which contain a great excess of carbon sometimes escape complete combustion by this process; when this is feared, all danger may be averted either by adopting the plan of Dumas, already mentioned, or by pulverizing some chlorate of potash finely, which is care- fully dried, mixed with about four times its weight of oxide of copper, and the first portion of the retort is filled with it for about an inch ; the tail-like prolongation may in this case be dispensed with at the close of the operation; instead of sucking air through the apparatus, we very cautiously apply heat to the chlorate, oxygen is evolved, which burns the last traces of carbon and displaces the gas and aqueous vapour which the tubes contain. When the chlorate has been used, the last inch of oxide of copper must be kept separate from the rest, as it will be mingled with chloride of potassium, and must not be employed again until it has been washed from the salt, for as chloride of copper is slightly volatile it would be deposited in the drying tube and unduly increase its weight. If the heat is too suddenly applied, a portion of the chlorate is apt to be carried forward me- chanically, and this constitutes the chief ob- jection to its use. Sometimes c/iromute of lead is advantage- ously substituted for oxide of copper with sub- stances difficult of combustion, as by a bright red heat alone it gives off a portion of its oxy- gen. It is easily prepared by precipitating the chromate or bichromate of potash with solution of acetate of lead. It should be well washed and heated to incipient fusion before it is used for analysis. It has the advantage of being much less hygroscopic than the oxide of cop- per. To ensure accuracy, when much gas (as in this case, and in instances where nitrogen is present,) passes through the potash apparatus during the whole experiment, it is best to con- nect the open extremity with an additional drying tube, charged with solid hydrate of potash instead of chloride of calcium, the weight of which has been carefully noted, as a portion, very small but still susceptible, of aqueous vapour is carried off from the solution of potash by the gas, and would otherwise be lost, making the quantity of carbon appear somewhat too little. 3. Analysis of a body containing nitrogen. Two separate analyses are in this case re- quired ; the first, to discover the proportion of carbon and hydrogen; and the second expressly for the nitrogen. When bodies containing nitrogen are burned with oxide of copper, a variable proportion of the lower oxides of nitrogen is formed, which being retained by the chloride of calcium or potash would render the analyses incorrect. A precaution is there- fore employed which renders it necessary to make use of a retort-tube somewhat longer than common ; it is charged as usual to within four inches of the opening, and then filled up with clean copper turnings; the apparatus is arranged as before directed, the copper turnings are brought to full redness, and the analysis proceeded with cautiously in the ordinary man- ner. As the oxides of nitrogen pass slowly over the ignited copper they are decomposed, the oxygen combining with the copper while pure nitrogen escapes ; the quantity of carbon and hydrogen is determined exactly as heretofore. To ascertain the proportion of nitrogen, the most accurate method is that recently devised by Varrentrapp and Will, and suggested about the same time by Berzelius ; the fundamental fact consists in the observation of Gay Lussac, that when azotised matters are heated with a large excess of hydrate of potash (soda answers equally well), the whole of the nitrogen is ex- pelled in the form of ammonia. In order to render it available for the purposes of analysis the subjoined precautions are requisite.