PISCES. 993 sends a branch across to join its fellow on the right side in the splanchnic nerve. This forms a ganglionic enlargement on the mesenteric artery, and, after communicating with the right trunk of the liar vagum, terminates on the intes- tines and other viscera. On each side of the aorta the prolongation of the sympathetic is continued down to the tail, giving filaments to the lateral branches proceeding from the aorta, and communicating witli the spinal nerves. Near the anus filaments are sent off, which unite and accompany the spermatic artery to the ovaries. According to the united testimony of Costa, Rathke, and Goodsir, no vestige of a brain or encephalic enlargement of the medulla spinalis is visible in Branchiostoma, a fact of extreme interest to the physiologist. In these extraordinary Fishes, the spinal cord, as de- scribed by the last mentioned gentleman, stretches along the whole length of the spine, is acuminated at both ends, and exhibits not the slightest trace of cerebral developement. It is most developed in its middle third, where it has the form of a riband, the thickness of which is about one-fourth or one-fifih of its breadth; and along this portion also it pre- sents on its upper surface a broad but shallow groove. The other two-thirds are not so flat, and are not grooved above. They taper off gradually, the one towards the anterior, the other towards the posterior end of the Fish. From fifty-five to sixty nerves pass off from each side of the cord; but as the anterior and posterior vertebra; are very minute and run into one another, and as the spinal cord itself almost disappears at the two extremities, it is impos- sible to ascertain the exact number either of vertebra; or spinal nerves. These nerves, Mr. Goodsir assures us, are not connected to the spinal marrow by double roots, but are inserted into its edges in the form of simple cords. The nerves pass out of the intervertebral for- amina of the membranous spinal canal, divide into two sets of branches, one set (dorsal branches) running up between the dorsal mus- cular bundles; the others (ventral branches) run obliquely downwards and backwards on the surface of the fibrous sheath of the vertebral column, and are distributed to the muscles of the ventral region. When an entire animal is examined by trans- mitted light and a sufficient magnifying power, the anterior extremity of the spinal cord is ob- served, as before mentioned, to terminate in a minute filament above the anterior extremity of the vertebral column. The first pair of nerves is excessively minute, and passes to the parts around the mouth. The second pair is consi- derably larger; it sends a considerable branch, corresponding to the dorsal branches of the other nerves, passes upwards and backwards along the anterior edge of the first dorsal mus- cular bundle. This branch joins the dorsal branches of the third and of a considerable number of the succeeding pairs of nerves, at last becoming too minute to be traced further. After sending off this dorsal branch the se- cond pair passes downwards and backwards on each edge above the hyoid apparatus, and joins all the ventral branches of the other spinal nerves in succession, as its dorsal branch did along the back. This ventral branch of the second pair is very conspicuous and may be traced beyond the anus, but is lost sight of near the extremity of the tail; it evidently cor- responds with the nerve represented in Jig. 531, 1, as the dorsal communicating branch does with the nerve marked 4 in the same figure. Sense of smell.—In the structure of their olfactory apparatus Fishes present a remark- able difference from all other vertebrate ani- mals; their nostrils are in fact quite uncon- nected with the respiratory passages, consisting of mere sacculi, into which the surrounding water obtains free access, which are lined with a pituitary membrane folded into regular plicae, so as to offer an extensive surface for contact. Their usual situation is towards the fore part of the face, where they are supported by the vomer, the maxillary, and the intermax- illary bones, the first suborbital bounding their lower margin, while above they are arched over by a bone distinguished by Cuvier as the nasal. The openings of the nostrils are of a round, oval, or oblong shape; they are situated either at the end of the muzzle or upon its sides, or upon its upper surface, or sometimes even beneath, as in the Rays and Sharks, where they are found near the angles of the mouth. In the Lamprey they are placed quite at the summit of the head, and open by a common orifice; but in the greater number of Fishes, perhaps in all the osseous races, each olfactory sacculus presents two orifices, one in front, the other behind, which are sometimes sufficiently remote from each other, but both orifices open into the same cavity. The anterior orifice sometimes has its edges tubular, as in the Eel, and sometimes this tubular edge is prolonged, as in the Lote and some of the Siluridae, into a tentacle of more or less considerable length : at other times these tubular prolongations are wanting, as in the Scombridte, in which family, moreover, the posterior nostrils are but vertical slits. The nostrils of the Lophius offer a remark- able peculiarity, each being supported upon a little pedicle so as to resemble a mushroom, the expansion of the mushroom containing the olfactory cavity, which, as usual, communicates with the exterior by two little orifices. In some rare instances the posterior aperture of the olfactory sacculus is situated beneath the lip, a circumstance which is more especially remarkable in some foreign Congers, and ex- hibits a remarkable approximation to what is met with in the amphibious Proteus and Siren. The disposition of the pituitary membrane that lines the nasal sacculus is very simple; where the shape of the olfactory cavity is round, the folds of the membrane which lines it are dis- posed like the radii of a circle (Jig. 529); but if the nasal fossae are oblong or elongated, they are arranged along the two sides of an axis in very regular folds, resembling in their arrange- ment the barbs of a feather. In the number