PACHYDERMATA. 863 some of the hog tribe, the two bones of the suture near the distal extremity of the fore-arm fore-arm are completely consolidated into one and a deep groove running along the middle third mass, the only vestiges of their having been of the bone for the lodgement of thejinter-osseous originally distinct being the indication of a artery. In the Rhinoceros and Tapir, (figs. 475 Fig. 475. Skeleton of Ai and 476,) however, these bones remain perma- nently distinct, the elbow-joint being formed by the radius in front, which articulates with both condyles of the humerus and the ulna pos- teriorly, which completes the articulation. At their distal extremity the radius lies in front and to the inner side of the ulna, with which it is either anchylosed or immoveably connected by ligaments, both assisting to form the radio- carpal articulation. In the Elephant, the arrangement of these bones is very curious and perhaps unique: the upper head of the radius is firmly fixed between two projections in front of the head of the ulna, and assists in forming the elbow-joint articulating with the outer con- dyle of the humerus only. It then passes obliquely downwards across the anterior face of the ulna to its distal extremity, where it expands into a broad articulating surface, and assists almost coequally with the ulna in forming the carpal joint. Carpus.—The bones of the carpus are chiefly remarkable for their large dimensions; they are, however, always distinct and generally the same in number as in Man, although from their altered shape they little conform to the names bestowed upon them in the human sub- ject. The first row, consisting of the analogues of the scaphoid, the lunar, the cuneiform, and the pisiform bones, is firmly connected by liga- ments with the distal extremities of the ulna and radius to form the wrist-joint, which, how- ever, is here only capable of the movements of flexion and extension. The second row consists of the representatives of the trapezium; the trapezoid, the os magnum, and the unciform bones support the metacarpus and are generally quite distinct, although occasionally two or more of them are consolidated into one mass. In the Rhinoceros, which has but three toes, the trapezoid, the os magnum, and the unciform erican Tapir. bones each support a single metacarpal bone. The trapezium, is totally wanting, but there are two supernumerary pieces in connection with the scaphoid and unciforme. Metacarpus.—The metacarpal bones are ge- nerally short and excessively robust, their num- ber of course corresponding with that of the toes. Thus in the Elephant there are five, and in the Hippopotamus, Hog, and Tapir only four, which are small and extremely massive in proportion to the weight they have to sus- tain. In the genus Sits, where the whole bur- den of progression is thrown upon the two middle toes, and a considerable degree of ac- tivity is permitted, the corresponding metacarpal bones are much elongated, and far surpass in size and strength those which support the ex- ternal and internal fingers, which have rather the appearance o( appendages to the outer and inner sides of the metacarpus, than bones ar- ticulated with the carpal series. The metacarpus in the Rhinoceros consists of only three bones conformable to the number of fingers. P/ialanges.—The Elephant alone of all the Pachydennata has five complete fingers; but, although the bones are thus perfectly developed, they are so concealed in the living animal by the hoof and overhanging skin of the fore-foot, that such a condition of this part of their skeleton would hardly be suspected. In the ungulate tribes, which have only four fully formed fingers, there is still a little bone representing the rudiment of a thumb, although in the generality of artificial skeletons this ossicle is wanting. In the Suides the two lateral fingers are much shorter than the two middle ones, so that in walking the former do not touch the ground at all; they are, however, quite complete as relates to the number of their phalanges; and the last phalanges of all the