168 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. and hepatic artery, and the interlobularspacesare supplied solely with branches which are derived fiora its ramifications. But in the smaller por- tal canals (fig. 37, fig. 38) the capsule of Glis- son, upon which the plexus chiefly depends, is Fig. 37. A transverse section of a small portal canal and its ves- sels. The lobules are in a state of general congestion. From Kiernan's paper. No. 1, The portal vein; the greater part of its cylinder is in contact with the portal canal. 2, In- terlobular branches of the vein entering directly the interlobular spaces, with branches of the artery and duct, without ramifying in the canal. 3, Two vagi- nal branches arising from the vein, and forming a vaginal plexus on that side of the vein, which is separated from the canal by Glisson's capsule. From the plexus the interlobular branches arise. 4, The hepatic duct giving off vaginal branches. 5, The artery giving off vaginal branches. Glisson's capsule is situated on one side only of the canal. situated only upon that side of the vein, on which the duct and artery are placed, and the vaginal plexus consequently follows the same disposition. On the opposite side the portal vein being in contact with the lobules, gives off interlobular branches directly to the spaces. If the portal vein (fig. 38) be laid open in this situation, the form of the lobules bounded by the interlobular fissures will be distinctly ap- parent through its coats, and the openings of the interlobular veins will be found to correspond with the interlobular spaces. The interlobular veins enter the intervals of the lobules through the interlobular spaces and divide into numerous minute branches, which ramify in the capsules of the lobules and then enter their substance. They cover with their ra- mifications the whole external surface of the lo- bules with the exception of their bases, and of those extremities of the superficial lobules which appear upon the surfaces of the liver. The interlobular veins communicate freely with each other and with the corresponding branches of adjoining lobules, and establish a general portal anastomosis of the freest kind through- out the entire liver. When the portal vein is well injected, these veins form a series of inos- culations which surround all the lobules and give to the surface of the organ the appearance of a vascular network composed of irregularly pentagonal and hexagonal meshes. If the vein be only partially injected the interlobular vein in the interlobular space is alone filled, and the branches which it sends off mto the neighbour- Jig. 38. Longitudinal section of a small portal vein and canal. The lobules are in a state of anaemia.—After Kier- nan. a, Portions of the canal from which the vein is removed to show that it is formed by lobules which present the same appearance with those upon the external surface of the liver, b, The side of the portal vein which is in contact with the canal, c, The side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, by the Glisson's capsule surrounding them,and by the vaginal plexus. d, The internal surface of the portal vein, through which is seen the outline of the lobules, and the openings of the interlobular veins which correspond with the interlobular spaces. Upon the opposite side (c), the portal vein being separated from the portal canal there are no interlobular veins, e, The openings of smaller portal veins, f, Vaginal veins giving off branches in the portal canal and forming a plexus, g. The hepatic artery giving off vaginal branches. A, The hepatic duct giving off vaginal branches. ing interlobular fissures not proceeding so far as to inosculate and form meshes, have a radiated appearance and resemble a number of minute stella?; these are the stellated vessels of anatomists. The lobular veins are derived from the inter- lobular veins; they form a plexus within the lobule, and converge from the circum- ference towards the centre, where they terminate in the minute branches of the intralobular vein. " Tnis plexus, interposed between the inter- lobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and maybe called the lobular venous plexus." (fig. 39). The irregular islets of the substance of the lobules seen between the meshes of this plexus by means of the microscope are the acini of Malpighi, and are shown by Kiernan to be portions of the lobular biliary plexus. The portal vein collects the venous blood from the chylopoietic viscera, and then circu- lates it through the lobules; it likewise receives the venous blood which results from the distri- bution of the hepatic artery to the structures of the liver; these two sources ol supply constitute the two origins of the portal vein, the abdominal origin and the hepatic origin.