ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 72 of dislocation of the knee, to which we refer for many observations we have not space for, gives a case of luxation of the femur backwards and of the tibia forward, which in some re- spects differed from those adverted to by Sir A. Cooper. He informs us that M. Lavalette was called on the 6th of April, 1815, to visit a man who had just before met with the accident we are now describing under the denomination of dislocation of the femur backwards and of the tibia forwards at the knee-joint. The limb was in a state of extension, somewhat inverted, and much shortened ; it could, however, be flexed and extended, although with much pain. The extensor muscles of the leg were in a relaxed condition, as were also the hamstring muscles from the shortening of the whole limb. A depression existed where the condyles of the femur ought to present themselves anteriorly, and below this space the superior extremity of the condyles of the tibia could be felt. The patella was placed horizontally on the upper articular surface of these condyles; its point, which is normally placed downwards, was now directed forwards, and its superior margin back- wards; its anterior or cutaneous surface was placed directly upwards, and its articular facet downwards, resting, as already mentioned, on the flat surface of the upper extremity of the condyles of the tibia. Lavalette here knew that he had to deal with a complete luxation, which we have called a luxation of the femur backwards and of the tibia forwards; and he was finally convinced of the real nature of the case by placing his hand in the popliteal re- gion, where he distinctly felt the two condyles of the femur. Luxation of the lower- extremity of the femur Jorward.—The lower extremity of the femur is sometimes thrown forwards off the condyles of the tibia, while the latter bone is thrown backwards behind the condyles of the femur, producing the following appearances: the limb is shortened, the condyles of the os femoris are seen projecting, the ligament of the patella is depressed, and the leg is bent for- wards. Sir A. Cooper gives a case in which the condyles of the femur were completely dis- located forwards, and the head of the tibia passed so far backwards behind the condyles as to fill up completely the popliteal space. The tendinous connexion of the patella to the rectus muscle was ruptured; the external con- dyle of the os femoris was very protuberant; the leg was bent forward and shortened, and a depression existed just above the patella. The patient felt most excruciating pain when the limb was moved, but when at rest there was not any considerable suffering; the luxation was reduced, and in five months recovery was complete. Lateral luxation of the femur at the knee- joint.—Although from the structure of the parts it might at first be supposed that complete la- teral luxation should be less resisted than the luxation of the femur either forwards or back- wards, still there is no case on record with which we are acquainted of complete lateral luxation of the femur from the tibia as the result of accident. We commonly see only one of the condyles of the femur abandon the tibia, while the other remains in the cavity the first had left. The luxation is then what is called incomplete. The reduction of this lux- ation is easy in consequence of the rupture of the ligaments.* Dislocation outwards of the femur at the knee-joint.—In the dislocation outwards of the femur at the knee-joint, this bone is thrown off the external condyle of the tibia, and this latter bone projects 'on the inner side of the joint so as at once to disclose the nature of the injury. Sir A. Cooper once saw a case of this kind at St. Thomas's Hospital, and stated he was struck with three circumstances. The first was the great deformity of the knee from the projection of the tibia inwards; the second, the ease with which the bone was reduced by gradual extension; and the third, the little in- flammation which followed upon what appeared so serious an injury. The man was discharged after a few weeks, having suffered little local or constitutional irritation. Example of dislocation of the femur out- ivurds.—Mr. Bovill was thrown from a gig; the femur projected much externally at the knee, and the tibia much (below the situation of the inner condyle of the femur) to the inner side of the condyle of the os femoris. The limb was extended from the thigh-bone, in a bent position; the extension was a long time continued, and force was employed by several persons for half an hour before the luxation was reduced. Sir A. Cooper saw him eighteen months after the accident; the patient could not then bend the limb at right angles with the thigh; there was also an unnatural lateral mo- tion of the joint from the injury which the ligaments had sustained. Incomplete dislocation of the femur inwards at the knee-joint.—The femur is sometimes thrown on the inner side of the knee-joint, the condyles of the tibia being carried outwards. The under surface of the inner condyle of the femur may be felt through the skin, while the outer condyle of this bone rests on the cup-like cavity hollowed on the upper extremity of the inner condyle of the tibia, or rather behind it. A deformity is produced analogous to that in the external dislocation, and may be easily con- ceived. From the little experience had of such cases, the reduction of the limb is stated to be equally easy with the former, and the patient recovers with little diminution of the powers of the part. Sir A. Cooper states as his opinion that in these cases the condyle of the os femoris with respect to the tibia is thrown somewhat backwards as well as outwards or inwards. An alderman fell from his horse and partially dis- located the condyle of the os femoris inwards, and the tibia outwards; the femur was easily replaced. He was perfectly recovered in twelve months. To whichever side the tibia is luxated, it always pulls with it the patella, which suffers * Blandin says : " Je 1'ai eprouve moi-meme une fois a l'Hopital de la Charite." Traite d'Anat. Topog. Paris, 1826, p. 617.