25 INSTINCT. " And binding nature fast in fate, Left free the human will," is inconsistent with a striking passage in the Essay on Man:— *' Who knows but He whose hand the lightning forms, Who heaves old ocean, and who -wings the storms, Pours fierce ambition in a Cesar's mind, Or turns young Ammon loose to scourge man- kind ? " But if the foregoing statement of the mode of action of the only voluntary power which we are conscious of possessing over the train of our thoughts is correct, it does not appear possible to deny that ambition or any other passion may be infused into any human mind, without de- stroying the consciousness, or suspending the action of that voluntary power. And if we reflect on the characteristics of many nations that have appeared on the earth's surface—on the taste and genius of the Greeks, the mili- tary spirit of the Romans, the restless energy of the northern nations, the maritime adven- ture and commercial enterprise of Britain and America—and contrast these with the stationary civilization of China, or the languid, if not re- trograde condition of Italy, Spam, or Greece— is it unreasonable to suppose that the designs of Providence as to the progress of the human race are sometimes carried into effect by an oc- casional infusion into many individuals of our species, of feelings and desires, of the ultimate object of which they have as little perception as animals have of the purposes of their in- stincts ? But to prosecute this speculation farther would be foreign to the object of this paper. It is still to be remarked, in regard to in- stincts, that they have been long and justly regarded as among the most important pheno- mena in nature, in reference to the doctrine of final causes, or the inferences of design, and of the adaptation of means to ends in the arrange- ment of the universe ; and it is important to set in as clear a view as possible the proper use to be made of them in that enquiry. In fact, the whole plan of the construction of all the different classes of animals bears refe- rence to the instincts with which they are en- dowed, and would be useless without them. If the fangs and claws of the lion, the jaws and stomachs of the ox or the camel, or the bill and gizzard of the turkey, are admirably adapted for the prehension and subdivision of their respective aliments, as well as their organs of digestion for the assimilation of their food, all these provisions would have been useless, but for the instincts which nature has im- planted in these animals, by which their proper nourishment is sought, and the first part of the process of its assimilation is directed. The mutual adaptation of instincts to struc- ture, of structure to instincts, and of both to the ends of their creation throughout every part and function of an animal, and throughout every grade of the animal creation, has been illustrated by many authors, but perhaps most efficiently by Paley, as the most satisfactory of all the indications of the adaptation of means to ends which the study of the universe pre- sents. It is indeed so clearly the fact that all the arrangements of the structure of an animal are subordinate to the instincts with which it is endowed, that the whole study of Comparative Anatomy, and the whole classification of ani- mals in so far as it is founded on their varieties of structure, require to be regulated by this consideration. The general principle by which the details of these sciences are held together may be stated to be this :—that while nature has observed a certain unity of plan in the con- struction, certainly of all the vertebrated, per- haps to a certain degree of all, animals, she has likewise introduced in all parts of the scale just such modifications of that plan as the si- tuation in which each animal is placed, and the office it has to perform, or as the French ex- press it, as the conditions of its existence, demand ; and then has implanted in it pre- cisely such instincts as are required to enable it to maintain itself—to turn those provisions to account—to enjoy its allotted portion of sen- sitive pleasure, and to fulfil the other objects of its creation, under those conditions. The study of the instincts of animals may be said, therefore, to hold a necessary interme- diate place between the study of their struc- ture, and that of the ends or objects of their creation—the structure being subordinate to the instincts, as these are subordinate to the objects of existence ; and it is by attending to them that the immense extent and infinite va- riety of the adaptation of means to ends in the animal creation is perhaps most distinctly per- ceived. It is stated by Mr. Whewell, that although the study of Final Causes has been often re- jected from the science of Physiology, yet it has been found impossible to keep them se- parate. " The assumption of final causes in this branch of science is so far from being ste- rile, that it has had a large share in every disco- very which is included in the existing mass of knowledge. The doctrine of the circulation of the blood was clearly and professedly due to the persuasion of a purpose in the circulatory apparatus."* But there appears to be some ambiguity in this statement. The term physiology is properly applied to the in- vestigation of the physical causes of the phenomena of life—of the powers which are in operation, and the conditions under which they operate, in producing these phe- nomena. It is true that the different func- tions of life are dependent on one another in any individual animal; and the science of phy- siology is most conveniently taught by arrang- ing their functions in the order of their de- pendence, and assigning, therefore, the final cause of each, after explaining the manner in which it is earned on. It is true, also, that the study of the uses to which the different func- tions are subservient, i. e. the study of final causes, has often led to the detection of phy- sical causes in this as in other sciences. But * Hist, of the Inductive Sciences, vol. iii. p. 467.