238 MAMMALIA. genera in their elongated muzzle, but differ from them in the form and disposition of the teeth: the Tamandua, indeed, is altogether destitute of teeth: the remaining two anoma- lous species have the muzzle shortened." Linnaeus defines the Class Mammalia, as follows:— Heart, with two auricles and two ventricles. Blood, warm. Lungs, respiring reciprocally (" Pulmones re- spirantes reciproce.") Jaws, incumbent, covered ; armed with teeth in most. Penis intrans. Generation, viviparous; lactiferous. On comparing the three preceding systems, it will be found that the most important errors of arrangement have been committed, not by Aristotle, but by the modern naturalists. Both Ray and Linnaeus have mistaken the character of the horny parts enveloping the toes of the elephant, which do not defend the upper part merely, as is the case with claws, but embrace the under parts also, forming a complete case or hoof. With respect to Linnaeus, however, it must be observed, that although he has followed Ray in placing the elephant in the unguiculate group of quadrupeds, he has not overlooked the great natural divisions which the latter natural- ist adopted from Aristotle, as is evident from the Table above quoted. He erred, perhaps, in not giving names to those primary divisions. From the manner in which Linnaeus has ar- ranged his Orders in this Table, it would seem that he had the circular progression of affini- ties in view. The Walrus among Bruta con- nects the commencement of the chain with Cete, which forms the last link; but whether or not he had perceived the affinity of Elephas to the Glires, and intended it as a transi- tional genus to that Order, as Cuvier has sub- sequently shown it to be, is less certain. Pallas* divides the Class Mammalia into seven Orders, viz. I. Ferje. II. Semiferje. III. Glires. IV. Rxjminantia. V. Anomalopoda. VI. Belluje. VII. Cetacea. Order I. FERM. The Feeje are characterized by incisors, small; laniaries very powerful; molars tren- chant and tricuspid, (lacero - tricuspidatos) ; clavicles minute suspended in the flesh, almost obsolete and functionless; vertebral column elongated and flexible; muscular force im- * Zoographia Rosso-Asiatica, 1831. Senses, tongue, nostrils, eyes, ears, tactile pa- pillae. Covering, hairs; few in tropical; very sparing in aquatic mammals. Support, four feet, except in those which are entirely aquatic, in which the posterior feet are bound together in the fin of the tail. A tail in most. Wih respect to classification, Linnaeus, like Aristotle and Ray, founds his primary divisions of the Class Mammalia on locomotive organs; but his secondary divisions or orders are taken chiefly from modifications of the dentary system. The following is the scheme of his arrange- ment :— Bruta. . Glires. . Primates. , Ferje. Belluje. Pecora. . Cete. mense; asophagus and alimentary canal wide, short, with a very short ccecum and colon; digestive power so active as to reduce even bones to chyme ; penis supported by a bone ; prolific virtue not very great; young born blind ; skin pretty flexible, and fat soft, sometimes oily. The genera included in the Order thus phi- losophically characterized are 1. Felis. 2. Canis. 3. Ursus. 4. Meles. 5. Viverra. 6. Mustela. 7. Phoca. Order II. SEMIFERJE. " All preconceived opinion being laid aside, the following genera," says Pallas, " seem to be linked together by an uninterrupted series of affinities and to constitute a strictly natural family, viz. Simia, Lemur, Vespertilio, grouped together by Linnaeus under the name of Pri- mates—with these, JJidelphys, Talpa, Sorei; and Erinaceus, which he classed without any stable character with the Fera. These differ from the Order Fera in the continuity of the dental series, generally also in the number of in- cisors and in the less elongated canines; in the multifarious and singular structure of the pen- tadactyle feet, the perfect clavicles, and in short in their habit, food, and general nature." Order III. GLIRES. " This Order," says Pallas, " is so natural and clear in its characters that it did not escape the older Zoologists. All the genera com- posing it agree in their bifid or hare-lip, their rosorial incisors generally two in number, their perfect clavicles, sub-bipartite stomach, large coecum, and great apparatus of the male gene- rative organs, exceeding that of any other order. They produce a blind offspring, as in the Fera and Semifera." It must be observed, however, that the perfect clavicles and large ccecum are not, as Pallas states, constant cha- racters of the Glires. r Front teeth, none in either jaw tt ■ i . j Front teeth, cutters 2, laniaries 0 Unguiculate. ...< v , . „ i ■ ° 1 front teeth, cutters 4, laniaries 1 VFront teeth, piercers (6, 2, 10), laniaries 1 Ungulate ^ Front teeth, in both upper and lower jaw a ( Front teeth, none in the upper jaw _Muticate Teeth variable (From the ' Systema Natura, ed, xvi. Holmiae, p. 24.)