723 NOSE. nicate with the par vagum, to divide into two branches, one of which is distributed to the tongue and the other to the oesophagus. Muller states, that in the rattlesnake he has found this nerve escaping from the cranium by a special opening behind that for the eighth pair, with which it communicates, as also with the first cervical.* In Fishes, the last cerebral nerve is described by Weber as arising by three roots, the poste- rior having a ganglion, and passing out of the cranium by a special foramen in the occipital bone, and being distributed to the pectoral fin. From these circumstances Muller conceived that an analogy exists between the hypoglossal, or ninth nerve, and the spinal nerves, and says, " If we now take into consideration that the first spinal nerve in the human subject has sometimes only an anterior root, and that the hypoglossal in man has only an anterior root, but that in some mammalia (according to the hypothesis of Mayer) it has a posterior root aiso, it will be evident that the hypoglossal nerve belongs to the class of spinal nerves, and is as it were the first spinal nerve, which, how- ever, generally passes out through a foramen in the cranium; this consideration renders the analogy between the last cerebral nerve in fishes and the hypoglossal nerve still greater.''f Physiology. —That the ninth pair is the nerve which influences the motions of the tongue is generally admitted, and that it de- serves the name given to it of motor lingua has been proved by the experiments of Mayo, Majendie, and Muller. When in the living animal this nerve is ex- posed and excited by pinching or galvanism, violent spasms of the entire tongue are pro- duced, and its division is followed by paralysis of that organ. On this subject Mayo performed the follow- ing experiment. " I divided the ninth nerve on one side of the tongue in a dog; the ani- mal did not seem much incommoded, but lapped up milk readily. I then divided the nerve on the opposite side; the animal ap- peared distressed, and did not again lap up the milk offered to it, though it smelt to it; and finally, when mustard was smeared on its nos- trils, it made no use of its tongue to remove it, though evidently suffering from it."j: Further, Mayo found that when the nerve was divided on both sides in a rabbit, and the tongue drawn out of the mouth, the animal had not the power of again retracting it. Avery interesting case is related by Montault and quoted by Muller, where a tumour pressing on the ninth nerve of the left side at its exit from the cranium produced an atrophy of this nerve; the symptoms were paralysis of the left side of the tongue with gradual wasting of the organ on that side ; but the sense of taste was not in the least affected, being as perfect on the paralysed side as on the other. We are warranted from these facts in consi- * Elements of Physiology. * See Elements of Physiology. X See Mayo, Commentaries, part ii. p. 11. dering the ninth nerve as that which influences the motions of the tongue in articulation and deglutition ; but, besides directing the motions of the tongue, the ninth nerve influences the mo- tions produced upon the os hyoidesby the sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, which muscles receive branches, as before de- scribed, from the ninth and cervical plexus. The importance of this connection in action of these muscles with the tongue, in the perform- ance of the functions of articulation and deglu- tition, is obvious; and in the turkey Muller has found a long branch going from this nerve to supply the muscles which in that bird shorten the trachea. It is asserted that the ninth nerve, in addition to its motor influence, is also endowed with a certain degree of sensibility, and that, if the nerve be stretched or pinched in a living ani- mal, there is evidence of the animal suf- fering pain ; this has been tried on dogs and cats. Now if in these animals this nerve has a double origin, this would be easy to under- stand ; but Mayer himself could not detach a posterior root in the cat; so that if this nerve, either in man or other animals, has any of the properties of a nerve of sensation, it is owing to the filaments which it receives from the cer- vical plexus. But the degree of sensibility communicated to the tongue through the in- fluence of this nerve in tins way must be very trifling; and it is now as well proved that the tactile sensibility of the tongue is owing princi- pally to the influence of the gustatory branch of the fifth, as that the motions of that organ are directed by the influence of the ninth pair. (G. Stokes.) NOSE. (Human Anatomy.)—(Gr. pi»; Lat. Nasus; German, Nate; French, Nez; Italian, Nuso ; Dutch, Neus.) The nose is the organ of the sense of smell, and a part of the appara- tus of respiration and voice, and in accordance with the variety of its offices is complex both in form and in structure, many different tissues en- tering into its composition. The most simple method of describing its anatomy in man is the synthetical; I shall therefore give an ac- count, first, of its skeleton, composed of bones and cartilages; and then, in succession, of each of the parts placed on the skeleton, and subser- vient to its several functions. The bones of the nose are chiefly concerned in the formation of the internal deeply-seated part of the organ, that part which is called the nasal fossae, (cava nares, or nares interna,) or the ca- vities of the nose. These cavities are open widely anteriorly to the atmosphere, and poste- riorly to the pharynx. The anterior aperture is, in the osseous skeleton, heartshaped, broader below than above, bounded below and on each side by the palatine and ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones, and above by the nasal bones. Its borders are, in the lower half, smoothly rounded ; in the upper half, sharp and uneven. Below and in the middle line the anterior nasal spine projects forwards and upwards; and above it. is the osseous septum, which divides the fossa- into two equal cr 3 a 2