MOTION. 459 they may form the greatest base of support, has been mathematically investigated by Parent and Barthez. According to the latter, the tra- pezium which forms the base of support will be a maximum when the prolongations of the lines drawn through the central line of each foot and passing through the centre of each heel form an angle of 33° 56". The calculation of Parent is defective, from its being based upon the hypothesis that the foot turns as upon a pivot about its articula- tion with the leg, instead of around the heel. V\ hen the body stands erect upon both legs, and presses equally on each, the legs will form equal angles with the vertical line passing through the centre of gravity; but if the two legs form different angles with that line, the pressure upon the legs will be unequal, and will vary with the angles of inclination, for example, in fig. 249, a d is perpendicular and g i parallel to the horizon; if <i b Fig. 249. and a g represent the entire force exerted by the legs to support the whole body, a d and a i will be the corresponding portion of these forces necessary to sustain the weight of the body, and will also together represent that weight; and if a d and a i be found by experiment, the absolute forces, a b, a g, will be found.* In standing, the limbs serve merely to support the body, and to preserve the centre of gravity at a certain height above the plane of position, w ithin the base of support, which is a necessary condition to prevent it from falling. In addi- tion to these functions they translate the trunk, during progression, from point to point, and keep it in equilibrium, in all the varied move- ments and under the action of all the extra- neous forces incidental to locomotion.f * See Borclli de motu animal, prop. 138, p. 173. t When a man stands with his centre of gravity at a vertical height H, above the plane of the hori- zon, if his weight be P, then the amount of force which he expends in order to stand is, according to Poisson, equal to PH.—Traite de Mech. Paris, 1833, $688. Walking.—In walking or running, the body may be divided into two portions, namely, the trunk, head, neck, and arms, which constitute the burden that is to be borne, and the legs which support and carry the burden along. The former cannot, however, be considered as a merely passive or dead weight, as the trunk and arms contribute to keep in equihbrio the forces acting on the centre of gravity during progression. In walking, the trunk is carried forwards with its major axis directed nearly perpendicularly to the horizon, like a rod poised endways on the hand. The power to keep the trunk thus poised whilst it is moved forwards is attained only after considerable experience during the earlier period of man's career, when his unsteady gait, numerous trials, and frequent falls afford practical illustrations of the difficulty of the process. Every movement of the legs, arms, head, or trunk, as well as the bearing of burdens in various positions, requires a compen- sating movement of some other part, in confor- mity to the theory of parallel forces, to preserve the whole in equilibrio; therefore, in order to keep the supported parts poised on the rounded head of either femur, whilst the body is trans- ferred from one to the other, and carried forwards in the air, either against or in the same direc- tion as the wind, there must be a continued in- terchange of compensating movements, and these actions are placed under the controul of the excito-motory division of the nervous sys- tem. It is well known that when any portion of a rigid body receives motion from a neigh- bouring body, all the parts of the rigid body will partake of the same motion, only when the direction of the force passes from the point of contact through the centre of gravity. If this is not the case, as,for example, when the upper extremity of the propelling leg acts on the lower part of the trunk of the human body in the erect position, the lower part would be pro- pelled forwards and upwards, whilst the centre of gravity of the trunk would be left behind, and fall backwards; but if this centre be in- clined forwards at the beginning of the step, the weight of the body and its required momen- tum will propel it forwards and downwards ; hence the resultant of the several forces will be a force which propels the body forwards in a direction which, by experience, is found to be nearly horizontal: but there is also another force which affects the trunk, namely, the re- sistance of the air, which tends to turn the trunk backwards, and must be counteracted by the force of gravity, through the inclination of the trunk forwards. The amount of this con- stant inclination of the trunk must be estimated by the resistance which it encounters from the air in walking and running. It must therefore be greater in rapid progression, because the resistance of the air is then more powerful than in more deliberate motion. Without this incli- nation it would still be possible to preserve a uniform position of the body in walking and running, not, however, by the force of its own gravity, but by means of the power of the mus- cles, which connect it with the limbs ; but this