PISCES. 979 Fig. 514. Teeth of the Tench, a, roof of the mouth ; b, the oesophagus ; c, dental projection from basilar bone; d, d, pharyngeal teeth. (After Owen.) In the Cyprinida, or Carp-ge- nus, the bones composing the superior and inferior maxillae are completely edentulous, but to make up for this deficiency the pharyngeal bones are armed with a remarkably powerful dental ap- paratus of very singular character. Each of the inferior pharyngeal bones, which are exceedingly strong and form a kind of osseous framework at the commencement of the oesophagus, supports four or five large teeth of great strength. These are opposed to a single dental piece of stony hardness and laminated structure, which is fixed upon a dilated projection from the bastlar bone of the cranium (jig. 514), and thus forms a kind of anvil upon which the bruising pharyngeal teeth play, and thus crush and triturate whatever food passes into the oesophagus. In the Scari, which have to feed upon the numerous corallines that clothe the rocks at the bottom of the ocean, the dental apparatus given to protect their jaws from injury while biting such hard substances is very remarkable. These Fishes have their jaws, which resemble the beak of a parrot (whence they receive their usual appellation " Parrot-fishes,") covered externally with a kind of pavement of teeth answering the same purpose as the horny investment of the mandibles of the bird. The teeth that form this pavement are perpetually in progress of developement towards the base of the jaw, whence they advance forwards, when completed, to replace those which become Fig. 516. Beak of Parrot-fish (Scams muricatits). a, upper mandible, the exterior of which is com- pletely encased in teeth ; b, lower mandible par- tially so, the inferior teeth not having as yet pro- truded ; c, lateral fangs. (After Owen.) Section of the jaw of the Parrot-fish, shewing the progress of dentitionj c, teeth still enclosed in the jaw ; I, do. with their extremities protruded so as to form an external pavement. (After Owen.) worn away in front by the constant attrition to which they are subjected. In the annexed figure (Jig. 515) the ex- ternal appearance of these singularly disposed teeth is well represented, while in the vertical section (Jig. 516) the mode of their implan- tation into the anterior surface of the jaw is delineated. All these teeth were originally developed in a common alveolar cavity (516, c) situated in the substance of the jaw. The outer* wall of this cavity is much weaker than the dense and compact inner wall, and moreover it becomes thinner as it approaches the margin of the jaws and disappears (Jig. 516, I,) at different distances in different spe- cies of Scari before it reaches that margin. Where it exists at the base of the jaws it is sometimes, as in Scarus muricatus represented in the figure, perforated by numerous small foramina, through which foramina in the recent fish processes of the external periosteum are continued to the analogous membrane lining the dentigerous cavity and forming the capsule of each denticle. These processes are analo- gous to the gubernacula of the second series of teeth in the Mammalia, and like them serve to conduct the new teeth to the exterior of the jaw. The growing denticles (516, /,) be- * Owen, Odontography, pa ;e 115. R 2