OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) 821 expect, in the construction of this skeleton, va- rieties correspondingly great both in the mate- rials employed and their mechanical arrange- ment, inasmuch as the machinery employed for effecting progression under circumstances so dissimilar must be changed in every race, and adapted to the peculiarities of habit con- ferred upon any given creature. The substance of which the interna! ske- leton of a vertebrate animal is composed differs moreover very remarkably from that employed to build up the organs of support in any of the other divisions of the animal kingdom. In all the great group of Radiata (Cuv.), wherever a hard material is employed, it is built up by the slow external accretion of earthy particles deposited in successive layers from the living substance of the body, arranged not unfre- quently with admirable precision; but, when once formed, such a skeleton is entirely devoid of vascularity, and almost placed beyond the reach of vita! influences. Throughout all the Articulata the skeleton is an external crust exuded from the surface of the skin, which is so entirely destitute of all capability of growth or expansion, that it must be cast off frequently during the life of the animal, to be renewed again and again as the bulk of its body is enlarged. In all the Mollusca, too, with the exception of the Cephalopods, in which a true bony structure begins for the first time to be developed, all the hard parts of the body are cuticular and composed of shell. In the Ver- tebrata alone is found a real osseous skeleton nourished by bloodvessels, consisting essen- tially of a living tissue that is capable of con- stant growth and renovation, having its texture hardened in proportion to the necessities of the case by an interstitial deposit of various earths, especially of phosphate of lime, which is con- tinually removed and renovated as age ad- vances, and, in short, is subject, during the whole existence of the creature, to vital in- fluences, its hardness and composition being subject to great variations. In making use of the terms bone and osseous tissue, we must therefore be understood by no means to employ these words as indicating portions of the animal fabric endowed with any particular degree of density or firmness, that being entirely an ad- ventitious circumstance depending upon the greater or less abundance of the earthy matters deposited in the living tissues, and even in the same animal, in this respect, offering at dif- ferent periods of its life the most opposite con- ditions. In the lowest and most feeble Fishes, which, in consequence of their sluggish movements through an element that buoys them up on all sides, no firmness is required in any part of their construction, and few of the locomotive levers met with in more highly-gifted forms are pre- sent, the whole osseous system consists per- manently of the softest cartilage undivided as yet into distinct pieces; and it is only as we ascend from this point through successive groups of Cartilaginous Fishes as they are called, the Sharks, Rays, Sturgeons, &c, that, owing to an increased deposit of the hardening earths within the cartilaginous web, firm- ness and solidity are slowly given. Even in the most perfect Fishes the bones remain soft in comparison with their condition in terres- trial Vertebrata, whilst it is only in Carnivorous Mammalia, and more especially in Birds, that the maximum of hardness is conferred upon the osseous system, a density and a strength commensurate witli the powerful muscular exertions required by the conditions under which those races live. Equally remarkable are the differences observable in the texture of the osseous skeleton at different ages in the same creature The Tadpole of the Ba- trachian Reptile, for example, at the time when it commences its earliest struggles in the element wherein it passes the first por- tion of its existence, is, as relates to the condi- tion of this part of its economy, inferior even to the Alt/ vine and the Lamprey amongst Fishes, consisting of the most delicate cellulosity or of the softest gristle. As growth proceeds, osseous particles accumulate, and the condition approximates that of the more perfect Fishes. Lastly, as the anterior and posterior extremities sprout, the bones acquire progressively the den- sity essential to the construction of a terrestrial animal, and the whole internal framework becomes consolidated to an extent proportioned to the vigorous movements of the perfect Frog. In the higher Mammalia the succession of the phases of developement is still further pro- longed. At its first appearance, the osseous system is represented by a mere web of cellular tissue, which slowly attains to a cartilaginous texture ; this cartilage, during foetal growth, is converted into bone by the deposition of earth in its substance; but it is not till long after birth, when adult age has need to exert all the energies of life, that the bones are fully formed, hardened, and lightened to the utmost required extent by consolidating their substance to the maximum, and excavating the caverns and can- cel li that characterize the most perfectly ma- tured conditions of the osseous framework. But passing from these general views, for a more complete consideration of which the reader is referred to another article, (Osseous Tis- sue,) we proceed to examine more closely the composition and developement of the skeleton, and here we find difficulties to be encountered of no common kind. Did the skeleton invariably consist of the same number of bones, only modi- fied in their shape or position according to the necessities of the different races of Vertebrata, the task of the comparative anatomist would be easy when he came to investigate their analo- gies and relations with each other; but this is far from being the case: the skeleton of the adult animal does not present the same number of pieces as that of the same creature in a less advanced condition, numerous parts, originally distinct, having become fused and consolidated into one; and, on the other hand, the juvenile being differs from the embryo from circumstances precisely the reverse, seeing that the full complement of bones or centres of ossification has not as yet been developed. Now, as in ascending the scale of living beings belonging to the Vertebrate division of the ani- mal creation, wc find that nature can arrest the