OPTIC NERVES. 774 rally throughout the animal series ; on the con- trary, the chiasma usually conforms to the type prevalent in the class to which the animal belongs, without evincing in its conformation much regard to the relative directions of the optic axes ; and examples are not unfrequent in which the anatomy of the optic nerves is at variunce with what the relative directions of the optic axes would require theoretically. Thus in the pleuronectes fish, (jig. 409,) the optic axes are so directed that the two retina may be inferred to have a certain amount of identity, and nevertheless, in such of them as have been examined by the writer, the optic nerves are severally derived from opposite sides of the brain, and cross each other without forming a chiasma; or in other words, retinae evincing mutual identity are supplied by optic nerves which have no identity of origin; the type pre- valent in osseous fish being preserved, without respect to the directions of the optic axes. In many of the cetacea, the direction of the optic axes is such that the retinae can have no identity, and nevertheless a perfect chiasma, such as occurs in other mammalia, exists in these animals. And in the owl the eyes look more directly forwards than those of most other birds, from which it may be presumed that the amount of mutual identity in the two retinae is much greater in them than in those birds whose eyes have a lateral aspect; but nevertheless the structure of the chiasma in the owl appears in nothing different from that which prevails in birds whose optic axes have a strictly lateral direction. But further, when the optic axes are very divergent, as in some quadrupeds, any object which can be depicted upon both retinae simul- taneously, will throw its images on the outer parts of the two retinae, and in order to explain Fig. 423. single vision under such circumstances, the outer parts of the two retinae should therefore be reciprocally identical; but these parts are formed by the outer filaments of the optic nerves, which come respectively from the cor- responding sides of the brain, so that here, reciprocally identical parts of the two retinae, instead of having a common origin at one and the same side of the brain (as they ought in order to suit theoretical views), are derived seve- rally from opposite sides of the organ, and con- sequently have no identity of origin (Jig. 423). These considerations are sufficient to falsify the explanation of single vision put forward above, and the writer is of opinion that hitherto the exact use of the chiasma has not been disco- vered. (See Vision.) Some remarkable varieties of optic nerves. Optic nerves in certain cephalopods.—The loligo or calamary exhibits in its optic nerves a singularly beautiful arrangement, which the physiologist cannot but contemplate with the greatest interest, as it presents the most perfect decussation of nervous filaments hitherto dis- covered. The loligo, in common with some of the allied families of the cephalopoda, possesses an extremely perfect organ of vision ; so elabo- rate is the mechanism of the eye that it has attracted a considerable share of attention from comparative anatomists ; and the developement of the optic nerve bears proportion to the per- fection of the other parts of the visual apparatus. The nervous system of the loligo conforms to the cyclogangliate type, and from each late- ral surface of the supraoesophageal ganglion, (fig. 424,) one of the optic nerves comes off. After pursuing a short course outwards the nerve swells into a large ganglion (the optic); this body is oval in shape, and of enormous dimensions; it exceeds considerably the volume of the supraoesophageal ganglion. One surface of the optic ganglion is directed towards the eye, and emits an immense number of filaments, which spring chiefly from its edges, and which, Fig. 424. Diagram to shew how in eyes with divergent axes, the images of every object placed so as to be seen try both eyes simultaneously fall on the outer parts of the two retinas. (After Mutter.) x, si, y, y, axes of the eyes diverging; a, b, C, objects seen by both eyes •, a', a", parts ot the two retinae on which the object a is depicted ; V, b", parts of the two retinae on which the object b is depicted ; c', c", parts of the two retinae on which the object e is depicted. Organ of vision, together with the optic nerve and supra~oesophageal ganglion in tlie loligo, much mag- nified. ( From a dissection by the writer.) a, supra-cesophageal ganglion; b, optic nerve; c, optic ganglion; d, d, one series of filaments springing from the edge of the ganglion ; e, e, second series of filaments derived from the op- posite edge of the ganglion, and in this view visible npar their termination only; f,f, points at which the filaments of the two series decussate; g, ball of the eye.