724 NOSE. nearly equal portions, but of which the lower part alone reaches to the anterior aperture. The posterior aperture of the nasal cavities is quadrilateral. It is bounded below by the palatine plates of the palate bones, with the posterior nasal spine formed at their junction ; on each side by the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone; and above by the alee of the vomer and the body of the sphenoid bone. The posterior edge of the vomer divides it into two equal lateral parts. The space of which these are the apertures is altogether irregular in its form, but each of the halves into which it is divided by the sep- tum may be described as having four walls or boundaries, a superior, inferior, and two late- ral. The superior wall or vault of each cavity of the nose is formed in front by the posterior surface of the nasal bone; above and in the middle by the inferior surfaces of the nasal spine of the frontal, and of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; behind by the anterior and inferior surfaces of the body of the sphe- noid bone, and its turbinated bone, and by the ala of the vomer. The anterior part of this wall looks downwards and backwards, and presents shallow branched grooves in which branches of the internal nasal nerve lie, and one or more apertures through which one of those branches and an artery or two pass. The middle part of the wall is nearly horizontal, and is perforated by many apertures for the branches of the olfactory nerve, and for the in- ternal nasal nerve; the posterior part looks downwards and forwards, and presents an aperture leading into the sphenoidal sinuses. The lower wall or floor of the nasal cavity is nearly horizontal ; it is concave transversely, a little raised at each end, and narrower before Fig. 399. View of the outer wall of the nasal cavity on the right side. 1, nasal bone; 2, frontal bone ; 3, frontal sinus; 4, sphenoidal sinus ; 5, palatine surface of the hard palate; 6, edge of the palate bone ; 7, anterior edge of the superior maxillary bone. than behind. It is formed by the upper sur- faces of the palatine plates of the superior max- illary and palate bones, and its inner border is a little prolonged both behind and before upon their nasal spines. Near its anterior border it is perforated by the superior orifice of the anterior palatine canal. The outer wall is the most complicated. (Fig. 399.) If a vertical line be drawn down- wards from the base of the nasal spine of the frontal bone («), it will have in front of it the plain part of this wall, a slighty concave tri- angular surface, formed by the ascending pro- cess of the superior maxillary bone (6), and presenting nothing but some shallow grooves for bloodvessels and nerves. And, if a similar line be drawn downwards from the front of the body of the sphenoid bone (c), it will have behind it another plane surface formed by the internal pterygoid plate (d). Between these vertical lines there is a large quadrilateral sur- face divided into three parts by the three tur- binated bones, whose edges project in nearly parallel and horizontal lines, at about equal distances one above the other. At the upper part of this surface and anteriorly is a thin quadrilateral plate (e) belonging to the cellular portion of the ethmoid bone, made very rough by grooves and apertures which lodge branches of the olfactory nerve. The anterior part of this plate forms the inner wall of the anterior ethmoidal cells ; the posterior part (f) is a little curved outwards, and leaves a space between its surface and the body of the sphe- noid bone into which the sphenoidal sinus opens. The lower border of this plate is con- tinuous anteriorly with the inner surface of the middle turbinated bone, and posteriorly has a free margin which is slightly curled outwards. From the form of this margin the plate is called the superior turbinated bone, (cornet sup't- rieur; oberste Musclicl;) and the space which it here covers, and which is a kind of horizon- tal channel between its outer surface and the wall of the adjacent ethmoidal cells, is the superior meatus of the nose. Into this meatus the posterior ethmoidal cells open, usually by two or more orifices concealed by the turbinated bone; behind and a little below it is the spheno-palatine foramen (A), at which the nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion and the spheno-palatine vessels enter the nose; and yet further kick ward, and nearly opposite the end of the superior turbinated bone, is the opening into the sphenoidal sinuses. Below this upper plate, and continuous with it anteriorly, is the inner surface of the middle turbinated bone (g), another portion of the eth- moid bone, (cornet rnoyen; mittlere Muschel.) It is larger than the superior, more convex on its inner surface, and presents a free margin through the whole extent of its lower border, which is thick, and abruptly curled outwards, and sometimes has cavities within it (sinuses of Santorini), communicating with the eth- moidal cells. The inner surface of the bone is deeply grooved and perforated by bloodvessels and branches of the olfactory and naso-pala- tine nerves. Of the grooves, those which lodge