PAR VAGUM. 891 extent with several of the other cerebro-spinal nerves, as the spinal accessory, the glosso- pharyngeal, the hypo-glossal, the portio dura, tb.e two superior cervical, and sometimes with some of the lower cervicals. The vagi are very extensively ramified upon the internal tegumentary membrane, as the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, larynx, oesophagus, sto- mach, trachea, and lungs, and send only one small branch, viz. the ramus auricularis, to the external tegumentary membrane. Many of its branches are distributed upon the mus- cular fibres surrounding the upper part of the digestive and respiratory tubes. Physiology of the ncrvus vagus.—From the distribution of this nerve in so many of the most important organs in the body which it is impossible to insulate, or prevent their mutual actions and reactions upon each other, and from its numerous and intimate connections with several other nerves, investigations into its physiology are beset with unusual difficulties. As, however, its lesions are attended by the most serious derangements of the respiratory and digestive organs, and as a knowledge of its functions bears in a prominent manner upon many interesting questions both in special and general physiology, it has naturally attracted the frequent attention of the physiologist, and has been made the subject of numerous experi- mental investigations. Do the roots of'the vagus contain any motor filaments?—No one can for a moment doubt that the trunk of the vagus, in its course down the neck, does contain motor filaments, but there is every reason to believe that it derives at least the greater part of these from the spinal accessory. From the resemblance of the vagus and spinal accessory as they lie in the foramen lacerum posterius to the anterior and posterior roots of a spinal nerve,—the vagus with its supe- rior ganglion corresponding to the posterior, and the spinal accessory to the anterior root,— many anatomists and physiologists have of late maintained that the roots of the vagus, like the posterior roots of the spinal nerve, contain no motiferous filaments. It is scarcely necessary to add, that the junction of the internal branch of the accessory and the vagus immediately beyond the superior ganglion of the latter, in- creases still further this resemblance between these and a spinal nerve. This opinion has been maintained on anatomical considerations alone, by Arnold, Scarpa,, and Bendz,* and has been further strengthened by the experi- ments of Bischoff, f Valentin,}; and Longet.§ * Tractatus lie Connexu inter Nervum Vagum et Accessorium WiDisii, Haunis, 1836. According to Miiller, this idea of the resemblance of the ana- tomical arrangement of the vagus and accessory to a spinal nerve had previously suggested itself to Gbrres in his Exposition der Physiologic, 1809. t Nervi Accessorii Willisii Anat. et Phys. 1832. Bischoff, however, has more lately satisfied himself by experiment that the root of the vagus does con- tain motor filaments. 1 Dc Functionibus Nerv. Cereb. et Nerv. Sym- path. Caput xi. Berna;, 1839. § Recherches Expcrimentales stir les Functions dcs Nerfs, dcs Muscles du Larynx, &c, p. 31, Paris, It is on the other hand maintained, that this opinion is too exclusive, and that, though there can be no doubt of the greater part of the fila- ments of the roots of the vagus being incident and sensiferous, yet they do contain some mo- tiferous filaments. We have seen that, proba- bly both in man and in some of the other mammalia, a few of the filaments of the vagus do not pass through its superior ganglion, and consequently the anatomical argument is not so conclusive as it at first appears to be. An examination of the experimental proof adduced in favour of these two opinions shews that the former is chiefly founded upon negative, and the latter upon positive evidence. Muller* saw muscular movements of the pharynx follow excitation of the roots of the vagus within the cranium ; but from having neglected some pre- cautions in the performance of the experiment, he himself is not disposed to attach to it much weight. I have related some experiments in which I observed muscular movements in the pharynx, larynx, and oesophagus, from irritation of the vagus within the cranium, on the dog immediately after death.f Volkmann has per- formed similar experiments upon calves, sheep, goats, and cats, and perceived muscular con- tractions in the levator palati, azygos uvulae, the superior and inferior constrictor muscles of the pharynx, the palato-pharyngeus, and crico- thyroid.} The experiments of Stilling,§ Wag- ner,|| Van Kempen,^]" Hein,** and Bernardft are also all in favour of the opinion that the root of the vagus contains motor filaments. 1841, and Anatomie et Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux, &c. torn. ii. p. 262. Paris, 1842. * Elements of Physiology, translated by Baly, pp. 703-4. Second edition. f Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1838. i Muller's Archives, p. 493. for 1840. Volk- mann expressly states that these muscular contrac- tions were also observed on irritating the vagus within the cranium in the calf, though in that ani- mal all the filaments of the vagus appeared to him to pass through its superior ganglion. § Stilling states that he saw movements of the pharynx, the glottis, and the stomach in two cats, on exciting the roots of the vagus within the cra- nium. Vide Bischoff's Bericht iiber die Fort- schritte der Physiologie in Jahre 1842, in Muller's Archives for 1843. Heft vi. p. 154. H Lehrbuch der Phvsiologie. Dritte Abtheilung, S. 329. Leipzig, 1842. il Van Kempen observed contractions of the con- strictors of the pharynx, the palato-glossus, the oesophagus, and the interior muscles of the larynx. Essai Experimental sur la Nature fonctionellc du Nerf-pneumogastrique, Louvain, 1842. Vide also Bischoff's Bericht, &c. supra cit. pp. 154-5. Bischoff states (p. 155) that he himself observed movements of the soft palate, in which the contractions of the levator palati muscle were very decided, on the irritation of the roots both of the vagus and of the accessory. "** Hein observed contractions in the elevator pa- lati, azygos uvuh-E, and palato-pharyngeus, but in the last muscle less frequently than in the two former, on irritating the root of the vagus, and the same muscles were thrown into contraction by irri- tation of the root of the accessory. He also per- ceived contractions in the stylo-pharyngeus from irritation of the root of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as in the experiments of Mayo and Volkmann. Muller's Archives, Heft iii. 1844. S. 297. ft Archives Generates de Med. 1844.