MOTION. 431 furnish a large surface for the attachment of the muscles which move them. The fore-arm, con- sisting almost solely of the radius, does not possess the power of pronation and supina- tion, which would tend to lessen the resist- ance of the air to the wing in flight; the hand rotates on the radius by abduction and adduction, as in birds, so that, when folded, the little finger lies along the outside of the ra- dius : the fingers, which are of great length, contribute to the expansion of the wing in flight; the thumb, which is not enclosed by the interdigital membrane, terminates by a strong hook for prehension, and for suspending the animal when in repose. The wing, taking its commencement from the neck, extends to the arm, feet, and tail. The interfemoral membrane, when developed, has its margin supported by an osseous extension from the calcanium ; this membrane serves to elevate and depress the axis of the animal, its functions in this respect being analogous to that of the tail of birds. The elastic though delicate membrane of which the wings are composed, gives its stroke upon the air a great mechanical effect. The proportion of the area of the wings to the weight of the body is greater in Bats than in many species of birds, and nearly approaches that in the Lepidopterous Insects, consequently their power of flight is very considerable. Bats are capable of increasing the area of their wings during their descent, and of con- tracting them during their ascent by the alter- nate flexion, extension, abduction, and adduc- tion of their elbows, fingers, and hands; and they can also vary their velocity, and conse- quently the resistance of the air during the elevation and depression of their wings in the same manner as birds. The ratios of the times and of the resistances during these move- ments of the wings, as likewise the number of their oscillations in a given time, may be computed very nearly by the formula appli- cable to the flight of birds, but owing to the extensive area of their wings compared with their weight, their oscillatory movements are comparatively slow. Their power of flight pre- ponderates greatly over the force of gravity and the mass of their bodies, so that they are ca- pable of flying with great ease, even when laden with one or two young ones. Their centres of gravity and magnitude lie beneath the axes of the articulation of the wings with the trunk, an arrangement which keeps them steady during flight. In repose they suspend themselves by their hind feet to some elevated object, from which on being alarmed they can fly off instantly. Their inferior extremities pos- sess neither the length necessary to raise the body sufficiently to expand their wings, nor the power to project it vertically, like birds on taking flight; but by dropping suddenly from the point of suspension, they are enabled to ex- pand their wings instantaneously and without obstruction in the air. Their velocity is so great that they can overtake and capture their insect food on the wing. The amount of force requisite for aerial pro- gression is so enormous, owing to the rarity of the atmosphere, that it would be impossible for a man to sustain himself in the air by means of his muscular strength alone, in any manner he is capable of applying it. It is calculated that a man can raise 13.25 lbs. avoird. to a height of 3.25 feet per second, and can conti- nue this exertion for eight hours in the day, he will therefore exert a force capable of raising 381600 lbs. in the day to a height of 3-25 feet, or 47700 lbs. to a height of 26 feet, which, ac- cording to Chabrier, is the height to which a bird would raise itself in one second by the force it is obliged to exert in order to sustain itself in the air. Now, if we suppose the con- ditions necessary for flight in man to be the same as for birds, and that a man whose weight is 150 lbs. could concentrate the muscular power of a day's labour into as short a period as the accomplishment of this object required, we might find the time t, during which he could support himself in the air, from the fol- lowing equation :—■ 150 t = 47700, hence t = 318", or about five minutes. It is, however, impossible that a man could concentrate the force of eight hours' labour into the short interval in which he would have to expend it when supporting himself in the air. The opinions of Borrelli and Chabrier agree with these views, and we are not so sanguine as to suppose with Bishop Wilkins, Sir G. Cayley, and others, that with the assistance of some mechanical contrivance men will some day be enabled to fly by the force of their muscular system. Such hypotheses, like the ancient stories of Daedalus and Icarus, &c. serve only to deceive the ignorant, amuse the credulous, and misdirect the human mind to attempt the accomplishment of impossible objects. Sect. III. Swimming.—In swimming, as in flying, the fulcrum which affords the requi- site resistance to the action of the locomotive organs of animals is the fluid medium in which they move, and as this mediumyields to theforce impressed on it by the organs, it is evident that these modes of locomotion are regulated by different principles from those applicable to animals whose progression is performed upon solids. The reaction of the water in swimming is equal to the action impressed on it by the impulse of the locomotive organs ; and if motion ensues, it results from a surplus force in the body in motion, equal to the difference between the force of the locomotive organs, and the resist- ance of the medium. The motion is accelerated as long as the force of the locomotive organs is greater than the resistance of the medium react- ing against the surface of the animal. When the mean forces urging the animal forwards and the resisting force are in equilibrio, the motion be- comes uniform. When these forces are at the maximum, the velocity is also at a maximum. If the weight of the animal be equal to that of the water it displaces, there will be no ten- dency to rise or sink, as the vertical force of the water upwards will be equal to the force of gravity upon the animal vertically downwards, and forces need only be employed to urge the