NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Matter.) 587 stance of extreme softness and delicacy, liable to break up under the least pressure; the nervous tissue owes much of its physical tena- city to the other tissues which are associated with it, and to the numerous bloodvessels which play among its elements. The chemical composition of this matter has been an object of investigation with several observers, but it is remarkable that few com- parative analyses of the two kinds of ner- vous matter have been made with a view to determine on what the differences between them depend; and, indeed, such an analytical investigation is as yet a great desideratum. The part which has chiefly been selected for analysis is the brain, in which doubtless both kinds of nervous matter were indiscriminately examined. Among the earliest investigations of this kind were those of Leming; some time afterwards Thouret examined the brain; and still later Foureroy. The last writer notices the large admixture of water with the cerebral substance, and points it out as one of those animal sub- stances in which water exists in the largest pro- portion ; from constituting, as it does, three- fourths or four-fifths, and in many instances seven-eighths of its weight. Vauquelin's ana- lysis, made in 1812, gave a considerable insight into the true composition of the brain. This chemist showed that the cerebral substance is an emulsive mixture of albumen, fatty matter, and of water, the last holding in solution certain saline and other ingredients common to the brain with other parts of the body. By solu- tion in boiling alcohol, Vauquelin was enabled to obtain the two constituents of the fatty substance, namely, the elaine and stearine (margarine). Vauquelin also recognised the presence of phosphorus in the brain. His ana- lysis yielded the following result:-—■ Albumen 7.00 Cerebral fat.... J sjeP»e • •* « | .... 5.23 I elaine.... 0.70 S Phosphorus 1.50 Osmazome 1,12 Acids, salts, sulphur 5 15 Water 80.00 100.00 John, who specially analysed the grey ner- vous matter, states that it is deficient in fatty matter, and that its albumen is less tenacious than that of the white. And Lassaigne states that the grey substance is deficient iu white fatty matter, but contains a greater proportion of red, 3.7 per cent, being the amount con- tained in the grey, and 0.9 per cent, in the white.* Vauquelin remarks that the medulla oblon- gata and the medulla spinalis have the same composition as the brain, but contain a much greater quantity of cerebral fat, with less albu- men, osmazome, and water. M. Couerbe's elaborate analysis does not ap- pear to be entitled to much confidence, since the * Valentin Report. 1837, p. 186. compounds into which he resolved the cerebral matter did not, on analysis, always present the same composition. This variation of ele- mentary constitution he attributed to physiolo- gical differences in individuals. The latest and apparently the most complete analysis of the brain is that by Fremy, pub- lished in the Annales de Chimie for 1841. In the main his results agree with those of Vauquelin. He states that the cerebral mass is formed, as had been already shown by Vauquelin, of an albuminous matter containing a great quan- tity of water, and which is found mixed with a peculiar fatty matter; and that these different substances exist in the following proportions, seven parts of albumen, five parts of fatty matter, and eighty parts of water. The chemical examination of the albuminous matter yields nothing of importance. This sub- stance is insoluble in water, in alcohol, and in ether. M. Fremy's principal care has been to determine the composition of the fatty matter, and this he has endeavoured to do by an ana- lysis of the brain in different animals, but prin- cipally in man. His method of proceeding is, to cut the brain into small pieces, and to treat it with successive portions of boiling alcohol,leaving them forsome days in contact with the spirit. The object of this is to remove from it its large quantity of water, which interferes with the action of ether upon it. The coagulated mass thus obtained is submitted to pressure, is divided rapidly in a mortar, and is then treated by ether, first cold and subsequently hot; the resulting fluids when submitted to distillation yield a viscid residue, which is called the ethereal product. The principles which he extracts from the brain by this method, are—1. a white sub- stance called cerebric acid; 2. choleslerine ; 3. a peculiar fatty acid called oleophosphoric; 4. traces of elaine, margarine, and fatty acids. These principles are not always found in an isolated state; for the cerebric acid is often combined with soda or phosphate of lime; and the oleophosphoric acid is commonly found in the state of a salt of soda. Cerebric acid, when purified, is white, and is in the form of crystalline grains. It dissolves without residue in boiling alcohol, is almost insoluble in cold ether, more soluble in boiling ether. It has the remarkable property of swel- ling up, like starch, in boiling water, but ap- pears to be insoluble in that liquid. It enters into fusion at a high temperature, approaching closely that at which it is decomposed, and is combustible. It contains no sulphur, but some phosphorus. The result of its analysis by Fremy is 66.7 per cent, of carbon, 10 6 of hydrogen, 2.3 of nitrogen, 0.9 of phosphorus, 19.5 of oxygen. Oleophosphoric acid is separated from cere- bric acid by its solubility in ether. It is still accompanied by elaine and cholesterine, which are withdrawn from it by alcohol and ether. This acid is of a viscid consistence, insoluble in cold alcohol, but dissolving readily in boil- ing alcohol; it is insoluble in ether. Placed