634 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Meninces.) fibrous tissue, which cannot confer elasticity. And if a portion removed from the cord be stretched, it will be found to possess very little elasticity; but if the cord be held up by the filiform prolongation, and a slight jerking move- ment be communicated to it, it may be made to dance about as if by the elastic reaction of the lilliform process. The movement which may be thus produced is very well calculated to deceive, and Dr. Macartney must have founded his opinion upon that experiment alone, omitting to try the effect of stretching a detached portion of the process. The fact is that when the cord is suspended in this way, the pia mater becomes stretched, and its anterior and posterior por- tions are approximated and the cord flattened ; when it is raised with a jerk, this tension of the pia mater is diminished, and the cord re- turns to its previous form until it falls again, stretches the pia mater, and becomes once more flattened, producing a degree of reaction which favours its elevation, but which alone would be insufficient for that purpose. Thus it appears that the elastic reaction, which Dr. Macartney attributed to the filiform process, is in reality due to the compression and conse- quent flattening of the cord by the tension of the pia mater. It should be stated, further, that this process is not formed of pia mater alone, but also of a continuation of the liga- mentum denticulatum on each side to be described by-and-bye. The pia mater is abundantly supplied by bloodvessels, many of which are extremely tortuous. These vessels are derived from the anterior and posterior spinal arteries. Along the anterior surface of the spinal cord in front. of the anterior median fissure there is a narrow band of fibrous tissue which is stretched across this fissure like a bridge, and occupies its whole length. No such arrangement exists on the posterior surface. The pia mater of the spinal cord possesses considerable strength and density. The ner- vous matter may by pressure be squeezed out of it, leaving a hollow cylindrical membrane, or it may be dissolved out by the action of liquor potassa. In the quite recent state, while the cord is as yet firm, the pia mater may be readily dissected off, its adhesion to the cord being through the medium of nu- merous exceedingly minute capillary vessels. On its exterior the pia mater adheres to the visceral layer of the arachnoid membrane by means of a loose fibrous tissue. Pia mater of the brain.—In tracing the pia mater of the spinal cord upwards, it will be found gradually to become much thinner and more delicate as it passes from the medulla ob- longata to the hemispheres of the cerebellum and cerebrum. In connexion with these latter parts it becomes of extreme tenuity, and owes its physical tenacity chiefly to the intimate con- nexion of the visceral layer of the arachnoid membrane with it. The cerebral pia mater is al- most exclusively composed of numerous ramifi- cations of minute vessels which are accompanied by white fibrous tissue in small quantity. These vessels divide and subdivide to the last degree of minuteness, and are admirable objects for examining the structure of capillary vessels. The pia mater adheres closely to the whole surface of the brain, cerebellum, and connect- ing parts, and numberless vessels pass from it into the nervous substance in contact with it. On the surface of the brain it dips down into the sulci or furrows between the convolutions, and adheres to the superficial grey matter. Wher- ever there is a depression or fissure of the brain, the pia mater is found dipping into it. It likewise sinks into the fissures between the laminae of the cerebellum. We shall obtain, however, a very inadequate notion of the extent of the pia mater, if we confine our examination of it to the exterior of the brain and cerebellum. At certain situations this membrane is continued into the cavities or ventricles of these organs, where it doubtless fulfils some office connected with the support and nutrition of certain parts of them. These situations are four in number, as follow: on each side, the fissure between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe of the brain, behind, the transverse fissure between the cerebellum and cerebrum, and, lastly, the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. Choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles.— These are apparently folded processes of the pia mater which enter the inferior part of the lateral ventricles on each side, and are continued upwards and forwards to their middle portions, where they become continuous with each other in the foramen commune anterius, and with a middle process, the velum. Each choroid plexus forms a somewhat cylindrical process, which, when traced from below upwards and from behind forwards, will be found to follow the direction of the lateral ventricle as far for- wards as the apex of the horizontal portion of the fornix, gradually diminishing in thickness, and assuming the character of a simple mem- branous expansion. It projects freely into the cavity of the ventricle, having no connection with the walls of that cavity excepting along the margins of the fissure, at which it enters, where the membrane of the ventricle adheres to it, being probably reflected upon it. Fig. 363. Choroid plexus of lateral ventricle in the Sheep, shewing a villous process, highly magnified, and the epithelium. (After Valentin.) a, villus; b, epithelium; c, nucleus of epithe- lium. Very numerous and tortuous bloodvessels are contained in these processes, forming a plexus which has given name to the folds themselves.