MONOTREMATA. 401 to be granted to it in order to direct its move- ments. The privation of this sense, on the contrary, implies a confinement to the nest, and a reception on land of the mammary secretion of the parent. The auditory orifices (fig. 196, d) are situated about a line behind the eyes. The general form of the body and the carti- laginous condition of the bones of the extre- mities equally militate against the young Orni- thorhynchus possessing, at this period of its existence, active powers of swimming or creep- ing. The head and tail are closely approxi- mated on the ventral aspect, requiring force to pull the body out into a straight line ; and the relative quantity of integument on the back and belly shows that the position necessary for the due progressive motions is unnatural at this stage of growth. The toes on each of the four feet were com- pletely formed, and terminated by curved, co- nical, horny claws ; but the natatory fold of membrane of the fore foot had not the same proportional extent as in the adult, and the spur of the hind foot did not project beyond its socket in either specimen. In the smaller one, which was a male, it presented the form of an obtuse papilla; while in the larger specimen, although a female, it was more plainly developed and more pointed (fig.\97, f). This circum- Fig. 197. Hind-foot and spur, yonnp female Ornithorhynchus, magnified. ( Owen, Zool. Trans.) stance is inexact accordance with the known laws of the development of sexual distinctions, espe- cially of those of secondary importance, such as beards, manes, plumes, horns, tusks, spurs, &c, which do not avail in distinguishing the sexes till towards the period of puberty. As the spur is the only obvious distinction of the sexes in the full-grown Ornithorhyrichus, I was compelled to refer to the internal essential organs, in order to determine the sex of the specimens here described. The ventral surface of the smaller specimen was carefully examined with a lens ; but no trace of an umbilicus could be satisfactorily determined. In the very young or newly born Kangaroo, a longitudinal linear trace of the attachment of the umbilical vesicle is at that time apparent, but it is rapidly obliterated ; as is probably also the case in the Ornitho- rhyrichus. In the smaller specimen the intromittent organ projected a little way beyond the excre- VOL. III. mentory orifice, as in the young Marsupial ia ; but it was not continuous, as in them, with the anterior margin of that outlet. In the larger female specimen the corresponding organ was visible just within the verge of the opening ; but this clitoris, remaining stationary in its development, is afterwards, as I have shown in my paper on the Mammary Glands of the Mo- notremes,* removed to a distance from the preputial aperture by the elongation of the sheath, just as the minute spur of the female lies concealed at the bottom of the progres- sively elongated tegumentary socket, and as the tongue is left at the back of the oral cavity by the growth of the jaws. The following; anatomical appearances were noticed in these young Ornithorhynchi:— On laying open the abdomen in the larger specimen, the most prominent viscus was the stomach, which was almost as large as in the adult animal, deriving at this period no assist- ance from the preparatory digestive cavities, the cheek-pouches, which were not yet deve- loped. The stomach extended in a curved direction across the epigastric and down the left hypochondriac region to the left iliac re- gion. It was full of coagulated milk. In the smaller specimen the stomach was empty; when distended with air it exhibited a less disproportionate development. It was situated in the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions. The intestines contained air, with granular masses of a mucous chyme adhering to their internal surface. This condition of the digestive canal would seem to show that no long period had elapsed since the birth of the specimen, and that either lactation had not been in full action, or that the young one had been deserted by the parent for some time before it was taken. In both specimens the spleen bore a propor- tionate size with the stomach ; and as the dif- ference in the development of the stomach was considerable, the correspondence between the condition of the spleen with that of the diges- tive cavity was made very obvious. The difference in the development of the liver was not greater than corresponded with the different size and age of the two specimens. But the pancreas in both bore the same ratio to the stomach as the spleen. This, therefore,would seem to afford some indication of the organs with which the function of the spleen is more immediately related. The intestinal canal in the larger specimen was situated almost entirely on the right side of the abdomen. The carum in both was very minute and filamentary. I examined the ileum, and more especially in the usual situation above the ccecum, but could not perceive any trace of the pedicle of the umbilical or vitelline vesicle. The other vestiges of foetal organization were more obvious than in the ordinary marsupial or ovoviviparous Mammalia. In both specimens, but more especially in the smaller one, the umbilical vein was seen, extending from a linear cicatrix of the perito- * Phil. Trans, for 1832, p. 525. 2 n