706 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encepiialon.) lation through the same channel as that of the dura mater, of the cranial bones, and of the eyeball: the internal jugular veins are the channel towards which the venous blood of the cranium tends. An obstacle, therefore, in both or either of these vessels must affect the entire venous system of the brain, or at least that of the corresponding hemisphere. A ligature tied tightly round the neck impedes the circulation, and may cause congestion of the brain. The bodies of criminals who have died by hanging exhibit great venous congestion, both of the walls and the contents of the cranium, in con- sequence of the strong compression to which the veins have been submitted. VVe have seen that, when the blood of one carotid artery is cut off, the parts usually sup- plied by it are apt to become exsangueous and softened ; and this is more especially the case if the vertebral be stopped up, or the circula- tion in it impeded. And it has been remarked, that these effects will follow the application of a ligature to either common carotid artery. Notwithstanding these facts, a doctrine has received very general assent, and the support of men of high reputation, which affirms that the absolute quantity of blood in the brain cannot vary, because that organ is incom- pressible, and is enclosed in a spheroidal case of bone, by which it is completely exempted from the pressure of the atmosphere. The cranium, however, although spheroidal, is not a perfectly solid case, but is perforated by very numerous foramina, both external and internal, by which large venous canals in the diploe of the bones communicate with the cir- culation of the integuments of the head as well as with that of the brain ; so that the one can- not be materially affected without the other suffering likewise. And as the circulation in the integuments is not removed from atmo- spheric pressure, neither can that which is so closely connected and continuous with it, be said to be free from the same influence. Still it must be admitted, that the deep position of the central vessels, and the complicated series of channels through which they communicate with the superficial ones, protect them in some degree from the pressure of the air, and render them less amenable to its influence than the vascular system of the surface. If it were essential to the integrity of the brain that the fluid in its bloodvessels should be protected from atmospheric pressure (as the advocates of this doctrine would have us to believe), a breach in the cranial wall would necessarily lead to the most injurious conse- quences; yet, how frequently has the surgeon removed a large piece of the cranium by the trephine without any untoward result! Some years ago I watched for several weeks a case in which nearly the whole of the upper part of the cranium had been removed by a process of necrosis, exposing a very large surface to the immediate pressure of the atmosphere ; yet in this case no disturbance of the cerebral circula- tion existed. In the large and open fonta- nel Its of infants we have a state analogous to that which art or disease produces in the adult: yet the vast majority of infants are free from cerebral disease for the whole period during which their crania remain incomplete ; and in infinitely the greatest number of cases in which children suffer from cerebral disease, the pri- mary source of irritation is in some distant organ, and not in the brain itself. It cannot be said that the brain is incom- pressible. That only is incompressible, the particles of which will not admit of being more closely packed together under the influence of pressure. That the brain is not a substance of this kind is proved by the fact that, while it is always undergoing a certain degree of pressure as essential to the integrity of its functions, a slight increase of that pressure is sufficient to produce such an amount of physical change in it as at once to interfere with its healthy action. Too much blood distributed among its elements, and too much serum effused upon its surface, are equally capable of producing such an effect. Majendie's experiments, described in a for- mer part of this article, show that the brain and spinal cord are surrounded by fluid, the pressure of which must antagonise that which is exerted through the bloodvessels. The re- moval of this fluid disturbs the functions of these centres, apparently by allowing the vessels to become too full. The pressure exerted by the former may be called the fluid pressure from without the brain; that by the blood, the pres- sure from within. As long as these two are balanced, the brain enjoys a healthy state of function, supposing its texture to be normal. If either prevail, more or less of disturbance will ensue. Their relative quantities, if not in just proportion, will bear an inverse ratio to each other. If there be much blood, the sur- rounding fluid will be totally, or in a great measure, deficient; if the brain be anaemic, the quantity of surrounding fluid will be large. The existence of these two antagonizing forces may be taken as a proof that either of them may prevail; and, therefore, from the presence of the cerebro-spinal fluid, we may infer that the actual quantity of circulating blood in the brain is liable to variation. The cerebro-spinal fluid is a valuable regu- lator of vascular fullness within the cranium, and a protector of the brain against too much pressure from within. So long as it exists in normal quantity it resists the entrance of more than a certain proportion of blood into the vessels. Under the influence of an unusual force of the heart an undue quantity of blood may be forced into the brain, the effects of which will be, first, the displacement of a part or of the whole surrounding fluid; and, secondly, the compression of the brain. When the brain receives too little blood, the requisite degree of pressure will be maintained, and the healthy cerebral action preserved, if the surrounding fluid do not increase too rapidly. But if the brain be deprived of its due propor- tion of blood by some sudden depression of the heart's power, there is neither time nor source for the pouring out of a new fluid, and a state of syncope or of delirium will ensue. Such seems to be the explanation of those cases of