722Q PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. but to the vigour and health of the body also; that to ensure the full developement of the mens sana we must secure the possession of the corpus sanum. Certain diseases are evidently associated with disturbed or excited states of emotion. In such cases, the nerves most affected are those connected with the mesocephale and medulla oblongata, denoting an excited state of these portions of the encephalon. Of these diseases the most remarkable are hysteria and chorea; both of which may be induced either by a cause acting primarily upon the mind, or by functional disturbance of the body, as de- ranged assimilation, in persons of a certain character of constitution. In hysteria, the globus, the tendency to cry or laugh, the dis- turbed breathing, the variously deranged state of the respiratory acts, all denote affection of most, if not all, the nerves coming from these segments. In chorea the frequent movements of the face and eyes, the peculiar and very characteristic mode of protruding the tongue, the impaired power of articulation, are depen- dent on an altered state of that part in which the portio dura of the seventh pair, the third, fourth, and sixth, and the ninth nerves are implanted. In both diseases the principal central disturbance is in the mesocephale; and this may be caused either by the direct in- fluence of the mind upon it, or by the propa- gation of a state of irritation to it from some part of the periphery. Chorea, even of the most violent and general kind, is very commonly produced by sudden fright; and it is well known how frequently mental anxiety or ex- citement developes the paroxysm of hysteria. There is no part of the cerebro-spinal centre which appears to exercise such extensive sway over the movements and sensations of the body as this portion, the mesocephale, which may be regarded as the centre of emotional actions. Its influence extends upwards to the cerebral convolutions—backwards to the cerebellum— downwards to all the nerves of sensation and motion. Through its connection with the pos- terior horns of the spinal grey matter, it can excite the sensitive as well as the motor nerves of the trunk. Hence it is not to be wondered at that a highly disturbed state of this centre is capable of deranging all the sensitive as well as motor phenomena of the body and even the intellect. Hence we may explain the extra- ordinary movements in hydrophobia and ge- neral chorea, in both of which diseases this part of the nervous centre is doubtless affected. It has often been remarked how much more powerful are the voluntary actions when prompted by some strong emotion, than when excited only by an effort of the will. Rage, or despair, is able to magnify the power of the muscles to an incalculable degree. This may be due to the increased stimulus derived from the influence of the centre of emotion being conjoined with that of the centre of volition. The intimate connection of the olivary co- lumns with the grey matter of the cord, and through that with all the roots of the spinal nerves, illustrates the power of emotional changes upon the organic processes. How often does the state of the feelings influence the quantity and quality of the secretions, no doubt through the power of the nerves over the capillary circulation ! Blushing is pro- duced through an affection of the mind, acting primarily on the centre of emotion, and through it on the nerves, which are distributed to the capillary vessels of the skin of the face. The sexual passion must be ranked among the mental emotions. Like them, it may be excited and ministered to by a certain line of thought, or by particular physical states of the sexual organs. It seems, therefore, more cor- rect to refer this emotion to the common centre of all, than to a special organ—according to Gall's theory; and it may be remarked, that great developement of this part of the brain is just as likely to produce great width of cranium in the occipital region as a large cerebellum. Of the Junctions of the. cerebellum.—All ana- tomists are agreed in admitting, in the whole vertebrate series, (the amphioxus, perhaps, ex- cepted,*) the existence of a portion of the en- cephalon which is analogous to the cerebellum. This extensive existence of such an organ indi- cates its great physiological importance, as a special element of the encephalon. The ce- rebellum exhibits much difference both as re- gards size and complexity of structure in the different classes; and although, upon the whole, it increases in its developement in the same ratio as the hemispheric lobes, it exhibits no constant relation of size to those parts. The large size and complicated structure of this organ in the higher vertebrate animals, and its distinctness from the cerebrum,—for its commissural connection with that segment of the encephalon is not extensive,—have excited the interest and curiosity of speculative physio- logists ; and, accordingly, we find.no part respecting which a greater variety of hypotheses have been suggested, most of them being en- tirely devoid of foundation. The experiments of Flourens have, however, thrown more light on this subject than any previous observations; and his hypothesis appears nearer the truth than any which has been proposed. The facility with which the cerebellum may be removed or injured, especially in birds, without involving the other segments of the brain, renders it a much more favourable ob- ject for direct experiment than them. A skil- ful operator may remove the greater part or the whole of the cerebellum without inflicting any injury on the hemispheres or other parts. Flourens removed the cerebellum from pi- geons by successive slices. During the removal of the superficial layers there appeared only a slight feebleness and want of harmony in the movements, without any expression of pain. On reaching the middle layers an almost uni- versal agitation was manifested, without any sign of couvulsion : the animal performed rapid and ill-regulated movements; it could hear and * The observations of Quatrefages render it doubtful that even the amphioxus can be regarded as forming an exception. Ann. des Sc. Nat., 1846.