PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 723f There are certain facts connected with the larger nervous centres which strongly indicate the correctness of this assumption. Thus, the existence of special accumulations of vesicular matter connected with them, where any parti- cular developement of the nervous force is needed, is much in favour of this view. As instances, we may cite the special electrical lobes in the electrical fishes, the ganglionic en- largements on the medulla oblongata of the gurnard, the median lobe, occupying a similar position to the electrical lobe above referred to, which is found in the remora or sucking- fish, and from which nerves are supplied to the suctorial disc on the head of that animal. Allied to these is the remarkable fact pointed out by Professor Sharpey, that the arms of the cuttle-fish contain ganglia which furnish nerves to the suckers which exist upon them in great number. Furthermore, the anatomy of the nervous system in some of the Mollusca, the Conchifera for example, in which a separate ganglion appears to exist for each function, for respiration, for locomotion, for deglutition, &c, is beautifully illustrative of the office of ganglia. When, however, we come to inquire into the office of the particular ganglia which exist in Man and the Vertebrata,it is, in some instances, difficult to determine what object can be gained by a special evolution of nervous force by some of them. It may be inquired what is the func- tion performed by the ganglia on the posterior roots of spinal nerves, on the large root of the fifth, on the glosso-pharyngeal, on the vagus nerves ? Can it have reference, as already suggested in a former part of the article, to the part which these nerves perform in connec- tion with tactile sensibility or with the sense of taste, as in the fifth and glosso-pharyngeal, in analogy with the ganglia attached to the olfac- tory and optic nerves, and probably with the auditory ? Or have these ganglia anything to do with the nutrition of the parts among which their nerves are distributed, as Dr. M. Hall suggests, in which case they would present an obvious analogy, and might be classed with the sympathetic ganglia? The data which would assist in coming to a right conclusion upon this subject are so few, that, with our present knowledge, it is impos- sible to form anything like a distinct hypothesis regarding it. I would remark with reference to the last-mentioned conjecture that it would receive great support if gelatinous nerve-fibres were found to take their rise from the ganglia and to follow the course of bloodvessels. With regard to the use of the ganglia of the sympathetic, the proved existence of gelatinous fibres, peculiar to these ganglia and taking their rise from them, distinctly indicates that they are the seat of a special developement of nervous power, whether spontaneously arising in the nutrient changes of ganglia, or by the reflexion of a change propagated to them by afferent nerves implanted in them. The va- rious facts which show that the sympathetic sys- tem enjoys an existence and power independent of the cerebro-spinal axis also confirm this view. But we must enquire further what is gained by the passage of certain nerve-fibres through these ganglia, as is the case with most if not all the tubular fibres connected with them ? It may be that in their passage through the gan- glia the tubular fibres acquire an ariangeinent in new sets or fascicles in a manner analogous to that which occurs in the plexuses. But this can scarcely be the only object of this connection. Do these fibres associate the cere- bro-spinal centres with the ganglionic system? or do they themselves in passing again through vesicular matter experience some modification in their vital endowments ? These questions cannot be satisfactorily solved in the present state of our knowledge. Bibliography of the Anatomy and Phy- siology of the Nervous System. I. Of the Nervous System in general. Aristotle, Mistoria Animalium. Galen, De admi- nistrat. anatom. Vesalius, De corp. humani fa- brica, Basil, 1555. Willis, Opera omnia, 1682. Vieussens, Neurographia universalis, 1684. Haller, Elementa Physiologic, t. iv. 1762. Whytt, On the vital and other involuntary motions, 1752, and on Nervous diseases, 1762. Unzer, Gundriss cines Lehrgebaudcs von der Sinnlichkeit der tliierischen Korper, 1768; also Erste Griinde einer Physiologic der eigentliclien thierischen Natur tliierischen Kor- per, 1771. Monro secundus, On the nervous system, Ed. 1783. Prochasha, Geo., De functionibus syste- matis nervosi, fascic. tertius, Annotat. Academ. Prag. 1784, (vid. also his other works, enumerated p. 721f.) Gall el Spurzheim, Sur le Systeme Nerveux, 1809. Bell's Idea of a new Anatomy of the Brain, 1811. The systems of Physiology of Treviranus, Richerand, (in English, by Dr. Cop- land,) Bostock, Adelon, Blumenbach, Elliotson, Ma- gendie, Mayo, Alison, Midler, Wagner, Carpenter, Todd and Bowman; Bell, in Phil. Tran., Lond. and Ed., and collected in an8vovol., Lond. 1844. Georget, De la Physiol, du Syst. Nerv. et speciale- mcnt du cerveau, 1821. Magendie et Desmoulins, Anat. des Systemes Nerveux des Animaux Ver- tebres appl. a la physiologie, 1825. Magendie, Le- 50ns sur les fonctions et les maladies du Syst. Nerv. 1841. Lonqet, Anat. et Phys. du Syst. Nerv. 1842. M. Hall's works, 1832-1843; vid. ant. p. 721u. Mayo, The Nervous System, 1842; Floureits, Re- cherches exp. du Syst. Nerv., ed. 2de, Par. 1842. Carpenter's Lectures on the Nervous System, Lond. Med. Gazette, 1841. Valentin, De functionibus Nerv. Cerebr. et Nerv. Sympath., 1839. Volk- mann, art. Ncrvcnphysiologie, in Wagner's Hand- worterbuch. II. Of parts of the Nervous System. The Brain. Malpighi, Decerebro; et de cere- bri cortice, opera, Lond. 1686. Ridley II, The Anat. of the Brain; and in Latin, Lugd. Bat. 1725. Mor- gagni, Adversar Anatom. 1741. Albinus, De cortice et medulla cerebri in Acad. Annot., 1725-29. Turin, Adversaria Anatom. 1750. Lorry, Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1760. Zinn, Dissert, sistens experimenta circa corpus callosum, &c. in vivis animalibus in- stituta, Gotting. 1749, and in Haller's Dissert. Anat. t. vii. Ludwig, Scriptorcs Neurologici minores, containing papers on the brain by Meckel, Mur- ray, Soemmering, &c. Malacarne, Encefalotomia nuova universale, 1780, et Nervo-encephalotomia, 1791. Soemmering, De basi encephali et orig. nerv. cranio egredientium, in Ludwig, Script. Neurol, min. t. ii. 1792 ; De lapillis intra gland, pineal, sitis, sive de acervulo cerebri, in Ludwig, t. iii. ; Vom Hirn und Ruckenmark, 1788 ; Uber das Organ der Seele, 1796 ; Tabula baseos encephali, 1799 ; Qua- tuor hominis adulti encephalum describentes ta- hulas comment, illust. E. d'Alton, Berlin, 1830. Vicq d'Azyr, Various papers in Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1781-1783; Traitc d'Anat. ct de Phys.