504 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. application in accordance with that necessity for precision of thought and expression which characterizes modern science. The exposition contained in the article Mucus will render it superfluous for me to define its present accept- ation. It is denied by Dr. Gruby that the viscid form of mucus is a normal secretion from any membrane whatever, and he considers its existence as a certain mark of diseased ac- tion. This view, if less absolute, would be in a great measure correct, since there is no doubt that in a state of perfect health most mucous surfaces are wholly unprovided with any pro- tection of this kind. If the nasal cavities, the trachea or bronchia, the intestinal or urino- genital tracts, be examined in a healthy animal killed for the purpose, we may search in vain for any slimy covering, such as they are com- monly imagined to possess. But in a state of disease, each of these surfaces will secrete great quantities ; and it is not a little remarkab'e, that, even when healthy, if moistened and allowed to undergo slight putrefaction, they will become coated with a viscid fluid, having the physical characters of mucus. Yet the slimy fluid of the mouth cannot with propriety be considered abnormal. The true saliva is not viscid, as it escapes from the ducts of the glands into the cavity of the mouth : it probably becomes so by dissolving the substance derived from the scales of epithelium lining the mouth, as they advance to the surface and flatten. The fluid of ranula is not merely the accumulation of a natural secretion, but seems gradually to ac- quire its great viscidity by receiving the debris of the epithelium lining the excreting channels, and by the partial reabsorption of its aqueous portion. In the intestinal canal, however, although there is no viscid mucus naturally present, yet there is a large amount of" inspissated mucus" being continually separated from the villi and follicles of Lieberkuhn. This mucus, as already mentioned, is nothing more than the debris of epithelial particles. But chemists have detected, iD most of the secretions, a small proportion of a substance nearly allied to mucus, and probably a form of it. There is good reason to believe this to be the product of the membrane lining the ex- cretory passages, and to represent the old epi- thelium of that membrane. Where the secre- tion of the gland is fluid and in considerable quantity, it seems to be sufficient to convey away this debris from the surface which it tra- verses on its way out of the system, as in the salivary and allied glands, the liver, kidney, &c. But where, from the absence of this means of carrying off the debris of the epithe- lium, it might be supposed to be liable to accumulate and clog the surface, cilia are de- veloped ; of which the best example is fur- nished by the respiratory tract, the nasal ca- vities, and the tympana. That this is the great office of these wonderful organs upon these extensive surfaces appears to be proved by the fact that the currents they produce are uniformly towards an outlet, llenle has ob- served this in several parts, and I have ascer- tained it by experiment in the case of the tm-- clieal and bronchi.il membrane. In this tract no secretion is visible with the naked eye, but with the aid of the microscope I have found, in perfectly recent animals, mi- nute globules of extreme tenuity and of va- rious sizes, which had all the appearance of mucus oozing from the interstices of the epithe- lial particles. It is impossible but that the cilia should move these globules along the sur- face, and discharge them into the pharynx; and it hardly admits of doubt that mucus, morbidly existing on the bronchial membrane, is gradu- ally lifted up by these untiring agents to that region where it excites coughing, and is forcibly expelled by the rush of air. The patient is often conscious of its slow motion upwards, when it is in the form of a pellet and proceeds from an isolated spot. This is remarkably the case too in haemoptysis, and also in that rare disease the bronchial polypus, where branched tubes of lymph are brought up in this manner. This view of the use of cilia in the mucous system of the higher animals appears to me to merit much attention. I had intended to have considered it under a separate head, but it has been introduced here both in corroboration of the general position as to the nature of secre- tion, and in illustration of the nature and extent of the special secretion from the ordinary mu- cous membranes. On the whole I think it may be concluded: 1. That every part of the mucous system, where epithelium exists, secretes. 2. That the secretion differs, in different re- gions, according to the vital properties of their epithelia; and that these vital properties are usually attended with appreciable varieties of structure. That corresponding varieties of che- mical constitution coexist with these is highly i "liable, though only as yet proved in a few cases. 3. That mucus is the least peculiar of the secretions, yet by no means universal from the mucous membranes, but confined to tracts of comparatively limited superficial extent, chiefly the excretory channels of the glands. In the preceding summary account of the structure, relations, and offices of the mucous system, I have not been able (without inter- ruption to the course of the description) to refer sufficiently to the labours of those anato- mists to whom we owe almost all our know- ledge of the subject. This deficiency, of which I am very sensible, I shall endeavour in some degree to supply by a brief review of the re- searches which have led to the more modern and general views on the subject. Passing over the imperfect descriptions of the ancients, we find that when the microscope first became an instrument of anatomical research, the scaly character of the cuticle was recognised by Mal- pighi and Leeuwenhoeck ; and that, the former of these great anatomists had a wonderfully clear insight, considering the period at which he lived, into the close relation that subsists between the glands, mucous membranes, and skin. The labours of the anatomists of the next age were spent with great success upon matters of detail,