972 PISCES. therefore becomes necessary to distinguish two modifications of the dermal skeleton, one con- stituting the investments of the external sur- face of the body, the other developed from the internal surface. These two kinds of exo-skeleton exist simultaneously in all verte- brate animals in addition to the endo-skeleton or proper osseous system, which encloses the visceral cavities or affords a framework around which the soft parts are situated. In the ver- tebral division of the animal kingdom not only do these two modifications of the dermo- skeleton present numerous connexions with each other, but they are likewise intimately connected with the osseous system, and in many parts of the body insensible transitions may be perceived between one and the other, as in Fishes, more particularly between the opercular bones and the scales, or between the latter and the bones of the occiput and hu- merus, or between the pharyngeal bones and the teeth. (See Osseous System, Comp. Anat. vol. hi., page 846.) There exists, however, a constant antago- nism in the developement of the three kinds of skeleton above indicated, some of the dif- ferent parts of which attain to a more perfect growth in proportion as those of the other are less complete in the different regions of the body. Before proceeding further with this subject, it will be necessary to examine with a little attention the structure of the skin itself prepa- ratory to describing the various dermal appen- dages produced therefrom. The skin of Fishes is always much more tensely stretched over the surface of the body than in other animals, and, being closely united to the subjacent muscles by dense cellular tissue, is never endowed with that mobility which is observable among many of the higher Vertebrata. As in other classes, the skin is composed of an epidermis which forms the external envelope of the body, of a rete mu- cosum, consisting of the internal stratum of the corneous epidermis, which as yet remains soft and covers the surface of the corium by which it is secreted ; and lastly of the corium itself, or the internal living skin furnished with nerves and vessels by which the outer layers of the integument are secreted as well as the different colours that ornament the exterior of the fish. The varied colours of the fish result in fact from the deposition of corresponding pigments between the epidermis and the true skin, and in the class before us these colouring matters are particularly abundant. In the first place the inner surface of the scales is imbued with a pigment of metallic splendour, and generally of a silvery or golden hue and of brilliant lus- tre, besides which, more especially towards the back and over the upper aspect of the body, are points or patches of black or diversely coloured pigments, which according to their abundance and character give the peculiar markings of the fish. The material which gives this metallic lustre to the scales of Fishes, known in commerce under the name of " argentine," was minutely investigated by Reaumur,* who found that, when examined under high magnifying powers, it is composed of crystalline laminae, divided transversely so as to form rectangular figures about four times longer than they are broad. These crystals he believed to be contained in vessels, or in delicate tubes of animal matter, mistaking for vessels the little bundles in which they are disposed.f These different pigments have been lately discovered to consist ofextremely minute crystals of various earthy and metallic substances; they are met with even in the interi- or of the body, as for example, upon the external surfaces of the peritoneum, of the brain and me- dulla oblongata, and in the interior of the eye- ball. Eh ren berg observed them in the Pike; but they are met with in all Fishes, and present nu- merous varieties of form and composition in dif- ferent species. One very remarkable phenome- non connected with the colour of Fishes, and which apparently depends upon the abundance of these pigments, and the rapidity with which they are secreted and absorbed, is the change of colour which many species undergo at diffe- rent periods of the year, as, for example, at spawning time; or during their growth, or even when excited to violent exertion, or lastly after their death, when they are exposed to different atmospherical influences. During the spawn- ing season, observes Agassiz, the tints of all species hitherto observed are more vivid and distinctly marked than at other periods; but even whilst drawing living specimens, he has observed that, when suddenly irritated or whilst making violent movements to escape from the hand when seized, these colours suddenly be- come much deeper and more brilliant, after which they become completely pale, and only return by slow degrees; a phenomenon which the writer above quoted supposes to depend upon a sudden exuberant secretion and subse- quent absorption of the coloured pigments. The surface of the body of living Fishes is moreover constantly lubricated by a great quan- tity of mucus, which in some is possessed of little tenacity, and forms a very thin layer; whilst in other species, especially in such as have but slightly developed scales, it is of more consistency and furnishes a covering of consi- derable thickness, as for instance in the Tench and Eel. This fluid is secreted by a muci- parous canal, which extends along the whole length of the body and ramifies extensively in the bones of the head. The fluid which it. se- cretes, which is very viscid and difficult to mix with water, exudes at the surface through a number of orifices which are visible upon the cranium, upon the bones of the face, along the jaws, upon the preoperculum, and likewise through the series of tubes which perforate the scales along the lateral line. From these sources it is distributed all over the surface of * Histoire de l'Academie Francoise, 1716 and 1718. t This substance, argentine, under the name of " essence de l'orient," was extensively employed in the time of Reaumur for the manufacture of arti- ficial pearls, and was on that account an exceed- ingly costly article.