822 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp. Anat.) further advance of ossification at any assignable point of developement, leaving some parts per- manently atrophied, while others are allowed to attain their full growth, we find great varieties in the composition of the osseous framework. The Tadpole, were its growth arrested before its limbs begin to sprout, would be a Fish. The Frog, it'it ceased to grow when its limbs were but par- tially formed, would be a Siren or a Proteus, having little or nothing in common with the adult creature as regards the configuration or even the number of the bones in its skeleton. Which of the three conditions must the com- parative anatomist refer to in order to estimate the condition of the bones composing the frame- work of this Batrachian ? The importance of this inquiry will be at once obvious, as, either in the first instance there must have been a much greater number of bones developed than are met with in what is usually considered a complete skeleton, or in the adult animal the bones have become too much confused with each other to allow us at all to estimate their real condition. It is sufficient indeed for any person who is only acquainted with the osteo- logy of man, to cast his eyes over the bones entering into the composition of the skeleton of a fish to perceive at once that the nomen- clature employed by the human anatomist is by no means sufficiently ample to afford names to one-half of them, which indeed have no re- presentatives in the human body; or even the bare comparison of the adult human cranium with that of the infant of tender age would convince us that in the former there are many more distinct bones than in the latter. The only mode of solving these difficulties is ob- viously to study the composition of every part of the skeleton in the most complicated form under which it is met with, and having ascer- certained the number and disposition of the pieces of which it then consists, and settled the names and analogies of each, it becomes comparatively easy to point out what parts are deficient in less complex forms of the ske- leton. The number of pieces which can normally enter into the construction of any portion of the osseous apparatus having been thus deter- mined, these are regarded as the primary ele- ments of the skeleton, by the developement, suppression, enlargement, or modified form of which every required variety of the bony framework may be explained, and the con- struction of this portion of the animal economy proved to be in accordance with certain immu- table laws that may be traced throughout the immense series both of the existing and of extinct races of Vertebrata. It will readily be perceived after the above remarks that a perfect skeleton, that is, a skele- ton presenting all the parts of which it might normally be composed in a complete state of developement, does not exist in nature. A spinal column may exist alone without either cranium, face, or limbs, as is the case in that strange and rare fish the Amphioxus.* Or * Vide a Memoir on the structure of this extra- ordinary production of nature, by John Goodsir, Jis<]. the spine, cranium, face, and extremities may coexist without ribs or thorax, as in the Frog. The spine and cranium form almost the entire skeleton of many apodal Fishes, while in Ser- pents the ribs become the chief instruments employed in locomotion, not even vestiges of legs or arms being visible. Imagining, however, that a fully formed ske- leton, having every apparatus belonging to it, could be pointed out, let us now proceed briefly to glance at the parts of which it would consist, and these we should find to be the following. Fig. 432. Skeleton of the Crocodile.