698 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) its characters in different brains, according to of a convolution or of a sulcus. A remarkable the degree of tortuosity it exhibits, and the exception is in the case of the internal convo- numberof small fissures which are met with in lution, the fibrous matter of which constitutes, it. The small folds which connect it with other as has been already explained, a longitudinal convolutions on the inner surface of the hemi- commissure. The thickness of the cortical sphere vary in number, and are generally found layer is pretty uniform, at least relatively to most numerous at its posterior part. Some of the size of the folds themselves. Throughout these folds are not distinctly visible unless the lts entire thickness it is mixed with fibres, which sulcus above it has been freely opened, as they are most numerous at its adherent surface, are situated quite on its floor. but extremely few and scattered at its free 2. The convolution of the Sylvian fissure.— surface. This convolution forms the immediate boun- In hydrocephalus the convolutions disap- dary of this great fissure. We have seen its pear. The fibrous matter becomes greatly ex- early developement in the simple brain of the panded by the fluid accumulated in the ven- fox, and we may observe it gradually rising in tricles, and when its expansion has gone so far complexity through all the intermediate stages as to equal the grey surface, the folded cha- up to the most highly developed brains. In racier of the latter disappears. This takes the elephant it is remarkably tortuous, and is place precisely in the same way that the ruga: connected anteriorly as well as posteriorly with of the contracted stomach (as before referred to) convolutions which pass to the anterior and su- become obliterated when the muscular coat re- perior and to the posterior part of the brain* laxes and allows the full distension of the organ. In man it is also very tortuous, and the nume- Mayo supposes that other fibres are found in rous folds which pass from it forwards or back- the convolutions besides those which are conti- wards, forming primary or secondary convolu- nued into the centrum ovale. These are com- tions, render it difficult to isolate it sufficiently missural ones, which pass from convolution to for the anatomist to follow it throughout its entire convolution—either between adjacent or dis- course. Its inner border is likewise interrupted tant ones—forming arches the convexities of by the connections which it forms with the con- which are directed to the centrum ovale. I volutions of the floor of the Sylvian fissure. have never succeeded in satisfying myself of 3. Within the fissure of Sylvius we find that the existence of such fibres either in the fresh remarkable group of convolutions called by Reil brain or in that preserved in spirit. If they insula, the island. It consists of a series of exist, it is evident that they must be comrnis- small folds radiating from a common centre and sural between particular convolutions. The connected with the convolution last described same anatomist supposes that similar commis- by still smaller folds, which cannot be seen sural fibres connect the laminae of the cere- unless when the fissure has been very freely laid bellum. open. The centre from which the convolutions The principal bulk of the hemispheres is radiate is the apex of a cone, the base of which formed by fibrous substance. This is shown adheres to the floor of the fissure. by the horizontal section which displays the 4. On the inferior surface of the anterior centrum ovale. These fibres radiate from those lobe there is a pair of longitudinal convolutions surfaces of the optic thalami and corpora striata which enclose between them the fissure of the which are in contact with the substance of the olfactory process. The external of these con- hemisphere. Most of the fibres which emerge volutions is continuous with the convolution of from these gangliform bodies pass to the grey the Sylvian fissure. matter of the convolutions. Some, however, The numerous secondary convolutions which turn inwards towards the mesial plane, and are found over the surfaces of the brain render foiTn the corpus callosum by their union with it difficult to distinguish the primary ones, those of the opposite side. These latter are indicated hy the antero-poste- II cannot be supposed that all the remaining rior course which they take—the former being nbl'es, after subtracting those which form the more or less vertical. The largest and most corpus callosum, pass through the thalami and tortuous convolutions are found on that part of corpora striata. The disproportion of number the external surface which corresponds to the between the fibres of the medulla oblongata parietal bone. Next to them, in point of size, and these is too striking to allow such an hy- are the convolutions of the anterior lobe, but pothesis. They mingle with the vesicular mat- the smallest of all are those of the posterior ter of both; some do not pass beyond them; lobes, others are continued into the medulla oblon- The hippocampi, major and minor, are £ata, either to its olivary or its pyramidal co- constant convolutions, which project into the 'umns. lateral ventricles, the latter into its posterior, Corpora striata and optic thalami.—The the former into its descending horn. corpora striata and optic thalami bear a strong In general the constituent fibres of the white resemblance in general character and structure matter of the convolutions converge from the to ganglia. They are ovoid masses placed be- inner surface of the cortical layer to the cen- tween the fibrous substance of the hemisphere trum ovale, or if followed from the centrum on the one hand, and the medulla oblongata on ovale, they radiate to the grey surface, whether tl)e other. These bodies, which are best dis- played by laying open the lateral ventricle * See Leuret, pi. xiv. representing the external (P- 675), are very closely united to each other, surface of the elephant's brain. The corpus striatum is placed a little in front