PISCES. 1004 rior is much the larger compartment, to which the posterior chamber seems a superadded ap- pendix. Both of these compartments are filled with a pellucid fluid, and each contains a stony mass or otolitlie, of which that in the anterior is the largest, that in the posterior being compara- tively of small dimensions. In Orthagoriscus, however, according to Cuvier, the saccus is single, and instead of an otolitlie only con- tains a few granules apparently rather of mucus than of cretaceous substance. Otolithes.—Most Fishes are furnished with three stony masses, which are intimately con- nected with the function of hearing. Of these, the otolithes or lupilli, one, generally the small- est, is contained in the anterior extremity of the vestibule; the other two are situated in the two compartments of the saccus. The otolithe con- tained in the anterior compartment of the saccus is generally of remarkable size, forming a con- siderable protuberance in the base of the occi- pital bone, in which it is lodged ; this is con- spicuously seen in the Gadidaj and some of the Perch tribe. The substance of these otolithes consists of carbonate of lime, but they assume various de- grees of hardness and considerable diversity of colour in different Fishes. In most cases they present a texture as hard and fragile as porce- lain. In a few instances, as for example in the Sturgeon (Accipenser Sturio), there is only one lapillus, which is soft and as easily crushed and reduced to powder as a piece of chalk ; as is likewise the case with the otolithes of the Raida and Squalida. In shape the otolithes vary exceedingly in different genera. For the most part they are smooth and present this character in common, that they are marked with asperities, fossae, and grooves for the attachment or reception of nerv- ous filaments. Those contained in the saccus are frequently surrounded by a serrated margin, which is rarely the case with the lapilli of the vestibule. But whilst there is so much diver- sity in the shape of the otolithes belonging to different genera of Fishes, the form of those met with in the species belonging to the same genus is wonderfully constant, so much so, indeed, that not only the general outline, but the most minute fossules and grooves were found by Weber accurately to correspond in different specimens, so that it was difficult to distinguish one from the other; from which circumstance those otolithes might be employed with advan- tage as affording excellent generic characters to the zoologist. The connection of the otolithes with the saccus or with the vestibule is so difficult to be perceived, that they might be thought to be loose in the contained fluid ; when, however, we find them small in the younger Fishes, and increasing in size as age advances, it is evident that they must receive nu- tritious vessels; they are moreover attached by nervous filaments of extreme delicacy, which pass to them from the saccus. In many points they touch the membranous walls of the cavity in which they are lodged; when, therefore, the sac is but loosely connected with the bones of the cranium, sonorous vibrations cannot be communicated immediately from the cranium to the lapilli,but must first be communicated to the surrounding fluid. Semicircular canals.—All Fishes, with the exception of the Petromyzonidfe, have three semicircular canals entering into the formation of the internal organ of hearing, and the arrange- ment of which is as follows. The anterior arises by one extremity from the anterior part of the vestibule, and, winding upwards and back- wards, meets the posterior semicircular canal derived from the hinder part of the vestibular cavity ; at the point of meeting the two join to form one common duct, which enters the vesti- bule near its middle. Both these canals are placed perpendicularly. The third or external semicircular canal issues from the anterior part of the vestibule, and winds horizontally outwards to join the vestibule again at its posterior part near the origin of the posterior canal. In this way the three semicircular canals open into the mem- branous vestibule by five orifices. In the Her- ring, however, (Clupea Harengus) not only do the anterior and posterior canals unite, but the external also joins the posterior, so that in this fish there are only four apertures communicating with the vestibule. Each of the semicircular canals near its com- mencement from the vestibule swells into an oval dilatation called the ampulla, so that three of these ampulla; exist, two at the anterior part of the vestibule, and the third near its posterior extremity. The connection between the semicircular canals and the cranium is effected by the assist- ance of osseous passages, in which one or two (rarely all three) of the semicircular canals are lodged, and in some Fishes, as for example in Cobitis fossilis, these are entirely deficient. The membranous canals are not at all adherent to the osseous passages, but are only connected with them by the intervention of a most delicate cellulosity, or are merely suspended in a fluid, with which all the osseous canals as well as the entire cranium is filled up; they are conse- quently extracted without the employment of the slightest force. Those canals which are not enclosed in bony channels are simply annexed to the bones of the cranium by a fine cellular web. From the above arrangement it may be clearly understood that these parts are pur- posely left but loosely connected to the surface of the bones, for otherwise the bony canals would not so greatly exceed the membranous ones in size, but on the contrary would be filled and lined by them throughout; and that sonorous vibrations most readily arrive at the labyrinth through the fluid with which the canals are surrounded. In Murana anguilla the anterior and poste- rior semicircular canals mount so high towards the vertex of the cranium that they are not placed by the side of the brain, but absolutely rise above it and approximate their fellows of the opposite side. The length and calibre of the semicircular canals vary very much,not only in different spe- cies, but also when compared with each other.