MOTION. 411 Fig. 214. moving them. There are no examples of the compound pulley in animal structures. We recognise the simple pulley in the trans- mission of the tendons of the peronei muscles through the groove of the external malleolus of the human ankle-joint, in the tendon of the obtu- rator internus gliding through the groove in the os ischii, in the tendon of the circumflexus palati passing through the hamular process of the sphenoid bone, in the tendon of the obliquus superior gliding through the ring attached to the frontal bone, and in several other instances where a change of the directions of the limbs results from tendons passing over joints, through grooves in bones, or under ligaments, by which the muscles are capable of producing effects on distant organs without disturbing the sym- metry of the body, an effect which, owing to the limited power of contraction in the muscles, could be accomplished in no other way. Of uniform motion.— If a body move constantly in the same manner, or if it pass over equal spaces in equal periods of time, its motion is uniform. The velocity of a body moving uniformly is measured by the space through which it passes in a given time.* The velocities generated or impressed on different masses by the same force are reci- procally as the masses.f Motion uniformly varied.—When the mo- tion of a body is uniformly accelerated, the space it passes through during any time what- ever is proportional io the square of the time. In the leaping, jumping, or springing, of animals in any direction, (except the vertical,) the paths they describe in their transit from one point to another in the plane of motion are pa- rabolic curves. The legs move by the force of gravity as a * Thus if v be the spare passed over by the body in an unit of time, that space X by t, or t v will be the space s passes over in t units, that is, s = tv (1). t If a force communicates a velocity » to a mass m, and a velocity v' to a mass m, then we have fflii = m't)' (2). Generally, if /be the accelerating force, the space s=hft\ (3). and s= — (4). 2 pendulum. — To the many instances already recognised of the connexions subsisting be- tween the functions of living animals and the physical sciences, another remarkable con- tribution has been recently added by the Pro- fessors Weber, whose experimental researches satisfactorily demonstrate that the swinging forwards of the legs of animals in progres- sive motion obeys the same laws as those of the periodic oscillations of the pendu- lum. In order to ascertain these relations, MM. Weber instituted a series of experi- ments upon legs of given lengths, both in the living and dead subject, and under variously modified circumstances. Having removed a leg from the trunk at the hip- joint, and suspended it by a short thread that it might move as if upon the axis of the head of the femur; upon giving it an im- pulse they found it oscillated nearly in the same time as in the living state. They next communicated a vibratory motion to a leg sus- pended to the acetabulum by the ligaments of the hip-joint only, the muscles having been previously cut through : in this experiment the oscillatory movements were rather less than in the preceding. The oscillations of the leg of a dead person after the rigidity of the muscles had subsided, were still further diminished. On comparing the durations of the vibrations of the legs in these several states with those of the living, they found their periods nearly equal or in the following proportions. Half Length dura- of leg. tion of No. in me- tres.* oscilla- tion. m ii 1 0.831 0.3/0 An exarticulated freely suspended leg. 2 0.866 0.371 The same. c A leg suspended to the trunk by the < ligaments only, the muscles of the ( hip joint having hecn cut through. 3 0.831 0.355 4 0.831 0.355 f A leg of the dead body in its natural 1 state. 5 0.860 0.346 f A living leg swinging uninfluenced t by the action of muscles. 6 0.860 0.322 A living leg walking on the heel, r A living leg walking on the hall of I the foot. 7 0.860 0.323 ! A metre = 3.2808992 feet. A millimetre = 0.03^7 inch.