MILK. 362 product of the combustion of animal substances containing an albuminous or caseous consti- tuent. The proportion of cream contained in milk from the human subject has been deter- mined by Sir Astley Cooper at from one-fifth to one-third by measure, varying with the health, the food, the habits, and state of mind of the mother. The colostrum or first milk which is observed in the human breasts has been examined by Meggenhofen. He states that it contains more saline matter than the after milk, and describes it as having the ap- pearance of a weak solution of soap containing oleaginous particles. It is very prone to be- come sour and decompose, and becomes viscid by exposure to the air, hence its name from KoAAtiju-at, to agglutinate. Several instances are on record of the exis- tence of milk .in the male breasts, and the ana- lysis of a specimen lately published by Mayer in Schmidt's Jahrbucher, July 1837, is as fol- lows :— Fatty matter 1.234 Alcoholic extractive .... 3.583 Watery extractive 1.500 Insoluble matters 1.183 Total solid contents .... 7.500 in 100 parts of the fluid. It was slightly alkaline. The following were the physical properties of this milk: when left at rest it quickly coagulated, and cream soon sepa- rated ; after some hours butyraceous globules collected on the surface. Its specific gravity was 1024. Milk from several of the herbivorous Mam- malia has been examined by Stiptrian, Luiscius, and Bondt, with the following results:— The milk of the ass has a specific gravity of 1.023 to 1.0355; it yields a white and light butter which is very apt to become rancid. The caseous matter does not separate so easily as in cow's milk; the whey, however, can be obtained very clear, and is found to contain more sugar of milk than that from the cow. An analysis yielded the following result: Cream 2.9 per cent. Casein 2.3 „ Sugar of milk .... 4.5 „ The milk of the mare has a specific gravity of 1.0346 to 1.015; it yields but little cream, but contains a very large proportion of sugar; the analysis gave: 0.8 per cent, of cream, 1.61 „ caseous matter, and 8.75 „ of sugar of milk. The milk of the mare, as also that obtained from the ass, very rapidly commences the alco- holic fermentation, an effect which cannot be produced but with the greatest difficulty in cow's milk. Goat's milk has a specific gravity of 1.036; it possesses a very disagreeable odour of the animal, and the more strongly so if the goat be dark-coloured ; it yields a large quantity of cream and butter; the latter contains, in addi- tion to the usual acids of butter, a peculiar acid to which the name of hircic acid has been given; it is to this principle that goat's milk owes its peculiar unpleasant odour. This milk contains also a large quantity of caseous matter of a firm dense character. Payen found goat's milk composed as follows : Butter 4.08 Casein 4.52 Sugar, salts, and extractives .. 5.86 Water 85.50 Stiptrian, Luiscius, and Bondt procured 7.5 per cent, of cream, 4.56 of butter, 9.12 casein, and 4.38 per cent, of sugar from the milk of a goat. The milk of the sheep has a specific gravity of 1.035 to 1.041; it yields a larger propor- tion of cream : the butter is semifluid and pale yellow in colour ; it putrifies very easily. This milk yields 11.5 per cent, of cream, 5.8 of butter, 15.3 of caseous matter, and 4.2 per cent, of sugar of milk. The milk of the bitch and also of the por- poise have been lately examined by Dr. Bird; the former contained 15.8 per cent, of casein, and 7.2 of butter mixed with some sugar of milk. That from the porpoise contained 23.00 per cent, of oily matter, and a volatile ingre- dient supposed to be phocenic acid. The spe- cific gravity of bitch's milk is stated at 1.024. The milk is very prone to become contami- nated by various ingesta; that of the cow is frequently impregnated by the odours derived from particular pasturage, and if saffron or in- digo be mixed with their diet the milk has been observed to assume more or less the colour of those pigments. Chevallier, Henry, and Peligot made expe- riments on the milk of asses to whom several different substances had been exhibited; they were enabled to detect the oxides of iron and zinc, the trisnitrate of bismuth, common salt, and sesquicarbonate of soda with great ease; sulphate of soda required to be administered in very large doses before it could be detected in the milk, and sulphate of quinine could not be discovered, though large quantities were intro- duced into the stomach. These gentlemen state likewise that the iodide of potassium cannot be detected in the milk unless exhibited in doses of upwards of a drachm. This rule, however, cannot apply to the human subject, as I lately very readily detected it in the milk of two of my patients, one of whom had taken only 45 grains of the iodide in divided doses of 5 grains each, administered three times a day for three days; and the other 105 grains in 21 doses of 5 grains each, administered in like manner. It is probable that many substances enter the milk which the present state of che- mistry does not admit of our detecting, and every practitioner is aware of the danger in- curred to the child by exhibiting any active medicine to the mother during the period of lactation. There is perhaps no animal secretion which bears so strongly-marked an analogy with the blood as the milk, and which promises us so fair a prospect of discovery in the mysteries of secretion, and we cannot but hope that as animal chemistry advances we may be able to imitate those changes which occur in the minute