799 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. with which it can be confounded being an alka- line solution of albumen, which resembles it in this and in some other particulars. Acetic acid in small excess causes its immediate coagulation ; a great excess of the acid redis- solves the coagulum. The fibrin, fats, and albumen having been separated in the manner already described, we may proceed to deter- mine the casein by adding a few drops of acetic acid and evaporating to dryness. Boiling water removes from the residue every thing ex- cept saline matters and casein ; this residue is dried, weighed, incinerated, and the salts de- ducted ; a portion of casein is apt to redissolve in the water, so that this process is not perfectly accurate.* Urea.— It is best, when practicable, to make a separate analysis for this principle; if this be impossible, we may proceed with the fluid from winch albumen, casein, and fats have been se- parated, as already mentioned. In either case the liquid is evaporated to dryness, and the re- siduum digested with alcohol; we thus obtain a solution of urea freed from every thing ex- cept chlorides, sugar, some "extractive" mat- ters, besides fats and lactates, unless previously removed by ether. The alcohol having been driven off, the residue is dissolved in sufficient water to produce a liquid of syrupy consistence. Colourless nitric acid is diluted till of a specific gravity of 125, which is a convenient strength for precipitating the nitrate of urea. The eva- porating basin with the impure solution of urea is next placed in a vessel containing a frigorific mixture composed of 1 oz. of nitre, 1 of sal ammoniac, each finely powdered, and 4 oz. of water; when the basin and its contents have been thus cooled, colourless nitric acid, sp. gr. 125, rather more than equal in bulk to the solution of urea, is added drop by drop, stir- ring carefully; if added too quickly, the tempe- rature rises, a little effervescence ensues, and part of the urea is decomposed. A flaky precipi- tate shows nitrate of urea; the whole is al- lowed to remain in the freezing mixture for three or four hours, or even longer; the nitrate of urea is then collected on linen, the linen is folded up, placed between several layers of filtering paper, and then subjected to strong pressure. The mother-liquor and excess of acid are thus almost entirely expelled; a slightly discoloured firm dry mass of nitrate of urea is procured, which may be exposed for some time to a temperature of 212°, and then weighed; 100 parts contain 48 78 of urea. The amount of impurity which this nitrate contains is usu- ally very small, as is easily proved by ultimate analysis. The nitrate of urea crystallizes in flat rhom- boidal tables, is sparingly soluble in water, pretty freely in alcohol even when cold, very slightly in pure ether. It is wholly vola- tilized by heat; when digested with carbon- ate of baryta suspended in water, effervescence ensues; on evaporating to dryness, exhausting * Proof-spirit may be substituted for water as a solvent, but it leaves more animal extractive mat- ter, though it dissolves less of the casein. with hot alcohol and evaporating slowly, long prisms of urea are obtained. Other methods have been proposed for esti- mating the urea, and when the proportion is small the substitution of oxalic for nitric acid furnishes results of greater accuracy ; but the urea must then be separated by absolute alco- hol instead of rectified spirit from its other ac- companiments ; the oxalic acid is rubbed to a thin cream with water, and a portion of this, equal in bulk to the syrupy solution of urea, is added to the liquid, which is gently warmed ; it is then allowed to cool, and the whole im- mersed in the frigorific mixture. The crystals are drained on calico and subjected as before to strong pressure; the firm dry cake of oxalate of urea and oxalic acid is allowed to digest at a temperature of 100° F. for about eight hours, with rather more than its own weight of chalk and six or eight times its weight of water. Effervescence ensues, an insoluble oxalate of lime forms, and urea is dissolved; the solution is filtered and evaporated to dryness; long crystals of nearly pure urea form, from the weight of which the quantity is ascertained : they ought to dissolve completely in absolute alcohol; anything undissolved is oxalate of ammonia. If the amount of urea be very small, as is sometimes the case with diabetic urine or the serum of the blood, Dr. Rees recommends the employment of ether instead of alcohol to the dry residue. Urea is very sparingly soluble in this menstruum and will be obtained with the fats; the ethereal liquid evaporated and the residue treated with water, filtered and again evaporated, furnishes long delicate prisms of urea; this process, however, must be re- garded more as a test of the presence of urea rather than as a means of estimating its quan- tity. Sometimes urobenzoic (hippuric) acid occurs in diabetic urine, and it would then be extracted by ether along with the urea and crystallize with it; but it is easily separated and distinguished by the sparing solubility of its crystals m cold water. Sugar.—It is best to take a separate portion of the fluid to determine the quantity of sugar. A jar, with its aperture ground smooth, gradu- ated to tenths of a cubic inch, and capable of containing from 12 to 20 cubic inches, is turned with its mouth upwards and filled to within an inch or two of the top with mercury ; from 100 to 200 grs. of the liquid for analysis is accu- rately weighed and transferred to the jar with the usual precautions; 8 or 10 grs. of yeast are introduced, and the jar accurately filled with water; the mouth is closed by a glass valve, which is retained in its place by a piece of linen or any other convenient means; the jar is inverted in a basin of mercury and the valve removed. The apparatus is set aside for two or three days in a temperature of about 70°, till the fermentation is complete. The quantity of gas is now accurately read off; the temperature of the room and height of the barometer care- fully noted, as well as the difference between the level of the mercury within and without the jar. As the liquid will be saturated with