425 MOTION. without very sensibly increasing its weight. The scapulars which have the least velocity are shorter and weaker. The length and strength of those feathers which contribute so largely to increase the area, vary directly with the velocities of that portion of the wing to which they belong. The ratio of the area of the wings of birds to their weight is by no means constant. It is least in the Cursores, such as the Ostrich, Cassiowary, and Emeu ; greater in the Insessores, as the Raven, Crow, and Humming-bird; and greatest in the diurnal Rap- tores, as the Eagle, Falcons, and Vultures. The power of flight in birds, provided the muscular forces vary in proportion, is as the areas of their wings directly, and as their specific gravities in- versely. Owing to the triangular figure of the expanded wing, the area of its sections dimi- nishes as their distance from the centre of gra- vity increases,and from the same cause the areas are in the inverse ratio of the velocities corres- ponding to the distances of the sections from the axis of motion. The centre of resistance coincides very nearly with the middle of the length of the wing from the shoulder-joint to the tip. The wing is moved on the princi- ple of the third order of levers, and the power is applied sufficiently near the axis of motion to produce a considerable relative velocity. The power of the muscles acting on the wing is increased in proportion to their mass, being to those of the inferior extremity (according to Borelli) in the proportion of more than three to one, their absolute power in proportion to the weight of the bird being as 10 000 to 1. In order to give the osseous framework the surface and strength necessary for the attachment of the great pectoral muscles which act on the wing, the sternum is carinated, whereby its surface is increased in proportion to the mass of the mus- cular fibres which are inserted into it, and the shoulder-joints are strengthened by the elonga- tion of the coracoid processes, and the magni- tude of the clavicles. The fixed condition of the ribs and vertebral column tends also to strengthen the thoracic sections of the bird, and enables it to resist the enormous muscular force applied to it during flight.* This brief outline of the manifold adaptations necessary for aerial progression will give some idea of the number and complication of the elements which enter into the composition of so small a fabric,and of the enormous muscular power with which birds are endowed, compared with their bulk and weight. When a bird rises from the ground, and at the moment it begins its flight, the first impulse is communicated to its centre of gravity by the sudden extension of the legs, as in leap- ing. During this action the humerus is raised ; the wings are unfolded and spread out hori- zontally by the extension of the fore-arm, and of the carpal, metacarpal, and phalangeal bones. The force resulting from the sudden extension of the legs elevates the whole mass of the bird above the plane of position, and the body thus raised being deprived of the support previously afforded would begin again to fall by its own weight, as soon as the projectile force became insufficient to sustain it, but the wings having in the meantime been spread out to their fullest extent, are made to descend with great velocity by the contraction of the powerful pectoral muscles. In consequence of the planes of the wings being disposed either perpendicularly, or obliquely backwards to the direction of their motion, a corresponding impulse is given to the centre of gravity. The resistance of the air to the wings during their depression through a greater or less arc of a circle becomes greater than the force of gravity on the mass of the bird, together with the resistance of the air on its body due to its velocity, and consequently the bird rises. During the ascent of the wing, the opposite effect takes place. The bird has not only to encounter the resistance which the air opposes to the motion of the wing during its back stroke, but also the resistance due to its figure when in motion, as well as the force of gravity. These are so many forces tending to neutralize the down stroke of the wing, and to produce an opposite effect, so that there will result a motion, the amount of which may be pretty nearly ascertained when the necessary data are obtained by experiment. The principal data required for computing the quantity of muscular action expended, the velocity of the centre of the wing, and the num- ber of its periodic oscillations necessary to sus- tain the bird in the air, may here be briefly stated. 1st. The area of the horizontal section of the body of the bird. 2d. The area of the two wings whilst they are lowered. 3rd. The area of the wings whilst they are raised. 4th. The velocity with which the bird is driven through the air. 5th. The velocity with which the wings are lowered. 6th. The velocity with which the wings are raised. 7th. The respec- tive durations of the elevation and depression of the wings. 8th. The weight of the whole bird. 9th. The weight of an equal volume of air. loth. The resistance of the air due to the figure and velocity of the bird. 11th. The ratio of the resistance which the air opposes to the wings during their elevation and depression. 12th. The ratio of the resistance of the air to the time of an elevation of the wings to that of a depression. These are the principal data which are deemed necessary for estimating by dynamics the amount of the force employed by birds during their flight.f If the area of the wings of birds always preserved the same ratio to their weight, the * The position of the scapulo-humcral joint with respect to that of the great pectoral muscles throws the centres of gravity and figure below the axis of articulation of the wings, so that the animal is kept steady in flight, whilst its figure is such as to enable it to glide through the air with the least pos- sible resistance. t Let us suppose the bird to endeavour to rise perpendicularly in the air by equal flappings of its wings in a vertical direction, and let s = the area of the transvere section of the bird, A = the area of the wings whilst they are depressed, A' = the area of the wings whilst they are elevated, u = the velocity with which the bird rises in the air, V = the velocity with which it depresses its