240 MAMMALIA. Fig. 60. Fig. 61. / Fig. 62. 1%. 63. Hind extremity. Ape. Fig. 64. Hind extremity, Lion. Fig. 65. Skull of a Rodent. Hind leg, A fluences their dexterity, and gives variety to their modes of action: it is the faculty of opposing a thumb to the other fingers, so as to seize the smallest objects, which constitutes a hand, properly so called. This faculty is carried to its highest degree of perfection in man, in whom the whole anterior extremity is free, and can be exclusively employed in pre- hension. These different combinations, which strictly determine the nature of the several mam- miferous animals, have formed the grounds for their distribution into the following Orders. " Amongst the Unguiculate animals, the first is Man, who, in addition to his peculiar privileges in every other respect, is distinguished zoologically by possessing hands on the ante- rior extremities alone ; the posterior extremities being destined to sustain him in the erect position. (Fig. 60.) " The Order which comes nearest to Man, —that termed Qiw.drv.mana,—has hands on the four extremities. (Fig. 61.) " Another Order, termed Carnivora, has not the thumb free and opposable on either the anterior or posterior extremities. (Fig. 62.) " These three Orders possess likewise seve- rally the three kinds of teeth, viz. molars, lani- aries, and incisors. " The quadrupeds of the fourth Order, viz. the Rodent ia, have the digits differing little from those of the Carnivora ; but they want the laniary teeth, and have the incisors of a form and disposition altogether peculiar to them- selves. (Fig. 63.) " To these succeed the animals whose digits now become much cramped, being sunk deep in large and, most commonly, crooked claws. They are further defective in the absence of Skull of the Giraffe, ntelope. incisor teeth; some of them even want the laniaries, and others are altogether destitute of dentary organs. We shall comprehend them under the term Edentata. (See jig. 33, vol. ii. P-49). " This distribution of unguiculate animals would be perfect, and would form a very regu- lar chain, if New Holland had not lately furnished us with a small collateral chain, composed of the Marsupial animals, all the genera of which, while they are connected by a general similarity of organization, at the same time correspond in their dentition* and diet, some to the Carnivora, others to the Rodent ia, and a third tribe to the Edentata. " The Ungulate animals are less numerous, and present fewer variations of form. " The Ruminantia, by their cloven feet, (fig 64,) their want of upper incisors, (fig. 65,) and their complicated stomach, form a very distinct Order. " All the other quadrupeds with hoofs might be united into a single Order, which I would call Pachydermata or Jumenta, (fis. 66,) the elephant excepted, which might form an Order of itself, having some remote affinities to the Order Rodentia. The Pachyderms have com- monly incisors in the upper as well as the lower jaw. (Fig. 67.) " Last of all come the Mammalia which have no hinder extremities, and whose fish-like form and aquatic life would induce us to form them into a separate Class, if their ceconomy * In the article MARSUPIAL! A it will be shown how much more essential are the points of resemblance between the dentition of the different Marsupial animals than between any of these and the pla- cental genera, with which they correspond in diet.