NUTRITION. 757 wgetabie structure to exercise these varied attractions, our knowledge is at present very limited. It will probably long remain an ulti- mate fact in physiology that cells have the power of growing from germs, of undergoing certain transformations, and of producing germs that will develope other cells similar to them- selves, just as it is an ultimate fact in physics that masses of matter attract each other ; or in chemistry, that the molecules of different sub- stances have a tendency to unite, so as to form a compound different from either of the ele- ments. It is of such ultimate facts that the science of vitality essentially consists. The conditions under which the assimilating power operates are, however, like the laws of chemical affinity, freely open to our investigation ; and it is a great step in the progress of the inquiry to become aware that these are so closely con- formable throughout the organized world, as we have endeavoured to show them to be. It may be stated as a general fact, that in assimilating or converting into its own sub- stance matter which was previously unable to exhibit any of the manifestations of life, every cell thereby participates in the process of orga- nization and vitalization ; for by the new cir- cumstances in which the matter is placed its sensible properties are altered,—some which were previously dormant being now caused to manifest themselves, whilst others, which were previously evident, become latent. No mat- ter that is not in a state of organization can exhibit these properties, which, from their being peculiar to living bodies, and altogether diffe- rent from those of which physics and chemistry take cognizance, are termed vital; and it may also be asserted that no matter which exhibits perfect organization is destitute of the peculiar vital properties belonging to its kind of struc- ture. (See Life.) Hence every act of nutri- tion is, in fact, the creation of a new amount of vital force ; and when that vital force has been expended, no more can be developed except by the nutritive process. From the foregoing details it further results that we must regard each part of the organism as having an individual life of its own, whilst contributing to uphold the general life of the entire being. This life, or state of vital action, depends upon the due performance of the func- tions of all the subordinate parts which are closely connected together. The lowest classes of organized beings, and even the highest at an early stage of their embryonic developement, are made up of repetitions of the same ele- ments ; and each part, therefore, can perform its functions in great degree independently of the rest. But in ascending the scale or in tracing the advancing developement of the em- bryo, we find that the individual lives of the cells become gradually merged (so to speak) in the general life of the structure; for they be- come more and more different from each other in function, and therefore more and more de- pendent on each other for their means of sup- port ; so that the activity of all is necessary for the maintenance of any one. Hence the inter- ruption of the function of any important organ is followed by the death of the entire structure; because it interferes with the elaboration, circu- lation, and continual purification of that nutri- tious fluid which supplies the pabulum for the growth and reproduction of the individual cells. But their lives may be prolonged for a greater or less duration after the suspension of the regular series of their combined actions ; hence it is that molecular death is not always an im- mediate consequence of somatic death. (See Death.) But if the function of the part have no immediate relation to the indispensable actions just referred to, it may cease without affecting them; so that molecular death may take place to a considerable extent without somatic death necessarily resulting. The foregoing considerations have a very important bearing on the question of the de- gree to which the process of nutrition is under the influence of the nervous system, a question on which, as it appears to the writer, very erro- neous ideas have been commonly entertained. For it has been customary to speak of this pro- cess (as well as of secretion) as dependent upon nervous agency; or, in other words, to assert that the nervous system is not only the instru- ment of the functions of animal life, but is also the primum mobile of the organic operations. Now the independent properties of the cells in which all organized tissues originate, might be of itself a satisfactory proof that in animals, as in plants, the actions of nutrition are the results of the powers with which they are individually endowed; and that whatever influence the nervous system may have upon them, they are not in any way essentially dependent upon it. Moreover there is an evident improbability in the idea " that any one of the solid textures of the living body should have for its office to give to any other the power of taking on any vital actions;" and the improbability becomes an impossibility, when the fact is known, that no formation of nervous matter takes place in the embryonic structure, until the processes of organic life have been for some time in active operation. The influence which the nervous system is known to have on the function of nutrition may operate in several ways. Thus, if the nerves proceeding to any set of muscles be divided, those muscles will be atrophied in consequence of the cessation of their activity, as already explained. In other instances we may not improbably regard the influence of the nervous system to be exercised through the medium of its controlling power over the dia- meter of the bloodvessels, by which it may govern the afflux of blood. And there can be little doubt that, in some manner yet unex- plained, the nervous system exerts an influence over those preliminary processes, by which the plastic element of the blood is elaborated; so that long-continued anxiety or depression of mind may produce general atrophy, or a ten- dency to tuberculous deposit. It appears to be invariably through emotional stales of the mind that the nutritive process is affected ; the will not possessing any direct power of influ- encing them. But there can be no doubt that the continual voluntary direction of the atten-