PACHYDERM ATA. 872 sac issuing from the posterior aspect of the car- diac extremity of the stomach and projecting towards the right side. The construction of the interior of this stomach is still more extraordinary than its external appearance, for it is so divided by septa, that food cominginto this viscus through the oesophagus may pass by different channels, either into the central portion, which seems pro- perly entitled to the name of stomach, or into either of the great diverticula appended to it. The inferior walls of the central stomach have nine or ten cavities in them, something like those of the Camel and Dromedary. The lining membrane both of the stomach and diverticula is granular and wrinkled except near the py- lorus, where the parieies become smooth and folded into numerous plicae somewhat resem- bling those of the third stomach of a ruminant, although there is no probability that rumination occurs in the animal under consideration. In the hog tribe the proportionate dimensions of the alimentary canal are very great when compared with the size of the animal's body, the large and small intestines of the Hog or wild Boar measuring together from sixty to sixty-five feet in length, the large intestines alone being in the wild Boar thirteen and in the domestic Hog fifteen feet long. The stomach is capacious, the entrance of the oesophagus being situated nearly in the centre of its lesser curvature, so that the cardiac cul de sac is exceedingly large, and is moreover prolonged into a kind of cowl-shaped appendage, which gives it a very peculiar aspect. On opening the stomach the epithelium of the oesophagus is found to be prolonged for some distance into its interior, where it covers a square space of considerable extent, the borders of which are well defined. At the entrance to the pylorus there is a large nipple-shaped projection up- wards of an inch in length in the full-grown animal ; and moreover, however much the stomach may be distended, there always re- mains a deep fold crossing it at its upper part, between the oesophagus and the pylorus, and another equally extensive bounding the com- mencement of the great cardiac cul de sue, these folds evidently indicating a relationship with the more complex stomachs met with in ruminating animals, especially as the lining membrane only assumes a villous aspect in the pyloric region of the viscus. The liver consists of four lobes, and there is a distinct gall-bladder, either lodged in a deep fissure, or imbedded in the substance of the middle lobe. The spleen is long, flat, and somewhat of a prismatic shape, and the pan- creas consists of three portions, which unite near the pylorus. The Hyrux Capensis has a stomach which to a certain extent reminds the anatomist of the complex condition of that viscus met with in many animals nearly related to the Pachyder- mata. The cardiac extremity is large, and forms a capacious cavity, which is divided by a deep constriction from a second compartment of smaller dimensions, which opens into the pyloric portion of the organ. The whole viscus is moreover so bent upon itself owing to the smallness of the lesser curvature, that the py- loric and cardiac extremities are almost in con- tact with each other. The coecum is likewise proportionably of enormous size, being larger than the stomach itself, and from this a spirally folded intestine of no very great calibre runs to a kind of second ccecum of large capacity, which has its commencement prolonged up- wards by means of two conical appendages like horns, whence it has been named by Pallas intestinum bicorne, and this last, after becoming considerably diminished in size, terminates in the rectum. Salivary glands.—The salivary organs are very large. In the Hog there are two sublingual glands; one, which is very long and narrow, accompanies the duct of the maxillary gland, and is composed of small lobes of a pale reddish colour ; the orifice of its excretory duct is near that of the maxillary. The second sublingual gland is placed in front of the former, and is of a square form; it discharges its secretion through eight or ten short ducts, which pierce the mucous membrane of the mouth. The parotid is large, its duct opening opposite the third molar tooth; and in addition to these there are the molar glands, which form two elongated masses, situated along the alveoli of the superior and inferior molar teeth, and extending forward as far as the canines; these pour their secretion into the mouth through numerous little orifices. Os hyoides.—The os hyoides in the Elephant has its body or central portion, which resembles a flattened lamina, slightly arched from below upwards, consolidated with the posterior cornua, which divide into two branches as they curve gently backwards and inwards. The anterior cornua articulate with the styloid process of the temporal. In other Pachyderms the general disposition of the hyoid pieces is very similar to the above, but in the Rhinoceros their ar- rangement approximates what is met with in horned ruminants, the anterior cornua being articulated to the styloid by an intervening osseous piece. The laryngeal apparatus exhibits nothing extraordinary in its arrangement. Circulatory and respiratory systems.—The organs of circulation and respiration likewise, in their general arrangement, differ from those of other Mammalia in no important particular. We may, however, notice one or two deviations from the usual type in the origins of the chief venous and arterial trunks. In the Hyrax the arch of the aorta gives off the arteria innommata, which divides into the right subclavian and the two common carotids, and then a second single trunk, which is the left subclavian. The Elephant in several points of its economy exhibits remarkable affinities with the Roden- tia, in proof of which the correspondence of the structure of its heart with that of some of the Rodents is very striking. Thus the right auricle receives three venae cavae, a right and a left superior and an inferior, which latter pre- sents the usual arrangement. Moreover, the Eustachian valve, which is placed between