ORBIT. 782 tremity of the cut nerve produced contraction of the pupil, although under the circumstances the animal could not have been conscious of such irritation. Radiated or sympathetic sensations. The optic nerve participates in a class of ob- scure sensations to which a brief allusion may be here permitted ; these are called radiated or sympathetic sensations; they occur occasion- ally in health, though they are more frequently symptomatic of disease or irritation elsewhere situated, and as they are likewise manifested by other nerves it would be erroneous to con- sider them peculiar to the optic. The pheno- mena to which allusion is made are for the most part transitory affections of sensitive nerves which do not seem to depend on any direct impression made upon the nerve af- fected, but rather to be produced by causes which act on other (generally distant) parts of the system. The following will serve as examples of the affections under consideration. A discordant sound, such as that produced by setting a saw or scratching glass, gives rise to shuddering, or a sensation as if water were dropping over the surface. Tickling the soles of the feet occasions general sensations of the most disagreeable nature; and the impression of a strong light on the eye is often followed by a sense of irritation in the nose, with violent sneezing. Similar affections of the optic nerve will readily occur to the reader's recollection; thus various forms and degrees of temporary insen- sibility or excitement of the retina, which are known to depend on gastric disturbance, belong to this category, and many other such instances might be adduced. Facts, such as the foregoing, have long been familiar to physiologists; but to account for them seems still to be a matter of difficulty. The supposition that the connections of the sympathetic with the nerves affected explain the problem is far from satisfactory; the most plausible theory is that which supposes the primary irritation to be propagated in a centripetal direction along the nerves of the part to the cerebro-spinal centres, and thence reflected upon the roots of those nerves in which the sensations are developed, in some- what the same way that excito-motory impres- sions on nerves come to produce reflex motions; the difference in the two cases amounting to this, that in the one the primary impression reacts upon motor nerves, giving rise to reflex motions, in the other on sensitive nerves causing thereby reflex sensations. Though this may be the true explanation, it • is nevertheless not perfectly satisfactory, for it does not shew why the reflex irritation should be prone to fall on one sensitive nerve in pre- ference to another, yet the optic is known in such cases to suffer more frequently than the auditory or olfactory. Bibliography.—The following books may be referred to in addition to the several sytematic treatises on Physiology and Descriptive Anatomy. Sir J. Newton, His optics, query 15, London, 1718. John Swammerdam, Book of nature, translated by Thomas FUoyd, 1758. Sam. Thorn. Soemmering, lie basi encephali et originibus nervorum, 1778. Alexander Monro, The structure and physiology of fishes, Edinb. 1785. F. J. Gall et G. Spurxheim, Anatomie et physiologie du systeme nerveux, Paris, 1810. Cuvier, Memoires pour servir a 1'histoire et a l'anatomie des mollusques, Paris, 1817. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Philosophie anatomique des monstruosites humaines, Paris, 1822. Flourens, Recherches experimentales sur les proprietes et les fonctions du systeme nerveux, Paris, 1822. Herbert Mayo, Anatomical and physiological commen- taries, second part, July 1823. Wm. HydeWollaston, On semidecussation of the optic nerves, Philoso- phical Transactions, 1824. E. R. A. Serres, Ana- tomie comparee du cerveau, Paris, 1824. Magendie, Journal de physiologie experimentale et patho- logique, Paris, 1824. Desmoulins et Magendie, Anatomie des systemes nerveux des animaux et vertebres, Paris, 1825. Frederick Tiedemann, The anatomy of the fretal brain, translated from the French by Wm. Bennett, 1826. Midler, Physiologie des Gesichts-sinnes, Leipz. 1826. Joseph Swan, A demonstration of the nerves of the human body, London, 1830. Frederici Arnoldi, Icones nervorum capitis, 1834. Catalogue of the physiological series of comparative anatomy in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, 1833 to 1838. Samuel Solly, The human brain, its configuration, structure, &c. London, 1836. Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, by John Houston, M.D. Dublin, 1834. Marshall Hall, Lectures on the nervous system and its diseases, London, 1836 : also " Memoirs on the nervous system," by same. Ft. Leuret, Anatomie comparee du systeme nerveux, Paris, 1839.. Herbert Mayo, On the chiasma of the optic nerves, London Medical Gazette, November 1841. Arthur Jacob, On paralytic, neuralgic, and other nervous diseases of the eye, Dublin, 1841. John H. Power, Observations on the arrangement of the optic nerve of the loligo, &c. Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 1843. (Robert Mayne.) ORBIT. ( Orbis, any thing round: Fr. Sor- bite; Germ. Avgenhuhle.)—Inthepresentarticle it is intended to describe, first, the bony frame- work of the orbit; secondly, the contents* of the orbit in the order in which they are exposed by a dissection from the roof to the floor of the cavity; and, lastly, to give some account of the action of the muscles contained in the orbit and in- serted into the upper lid and globe of the eye. The orbits are two in number, situated at the anterior and upper part of the face. They have the form of quadrangular pyramids, the bases of which are directed forwards and out- wards, the apices backwards and inwards. Each orbit presents for examination four walls, four angles, formed by the meeting of the walls, a base, and an apex. The superior wall or roof is concave and di- rected downwards and slightly forwards. It is chiefly formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone ; at the posterior part to a slight extent by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. It presents the suture between the orbital plate of the frontal and the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and anteriorly on the outer side, the lachrymal fossa, which receives a gland of the same name; * The relative anatomy only of these parts will be given in this article, a special description of the Eye and Lachrymal Organs having already been given.