852 OSSEOUS TISSUE. which the cell is placed. As in the transverse section of the Haversian system these tubes that take the longitudinal direction are not seen, so in this section the tubes proceeding directly towards the Haversian canal are but badly shown. So many of the delicate tubes take the direction of the Haversian canals and enter it, that the parietes of each canal at first sight have a radiate appearance, which has led some writers to describe a system of radiate tubes passing through some of the lamina;, but they have failed to trace their connection with the bone cells not far distant. When the cell with its radiating system of tubes is situated near the surface of the bone, the direction of the latter will be mostly towards that surface, unless indeed there is a vascular canal near at hand, in which case many will proceed towards it. Those cells which are placed in the connect- ing lamina? send out their tubes tolerably equally in each division, anastomosing freely with the tubes coming from the cells belonging to the Haversian or superficial system of laminse, and so establish a communication between the cells of the three systems of laminaa. The number of tubes and the size of the bone cells bear to each other no definite proportion ; thus a small cell may have many tubes while a much larger one has comparatively few. The number of the cells In a given space is subject to con- siderable variety, as well as the number of the radiating tubes, though generally the number of tubes will exist in inverse proportion to the num- ber of the cells. Thus in the crania of small birds the cells are of very frequent occurrence, while the tubes connected with each cell are but Fig. 456. Section of a bone of an osseous fish. , transverse section of Haversian canal ; b, longitudinal section of an Haversian canal with system of tubes opening into it. few. Again, in dense bones of quadrupeds and of man, the cells are less frequent, but the tubes of each cell far more numerous. Where the canals for vessels are very nu- merous the bone cells become more rare, and in some cases they are nearly absent,as shown in fig. 451. From the foregoing description it may be seen that the infinitely numerous tubes every- where connected amongst the cells, converging at certain points and entering into cells, in fact form these cells; that the cells are nothing more than many tubes coming to a point and losing their individual parietes. In other cases where the tubes to each cell are not numerous, the cell itself may be com- pared to a dilatation of those tubes. This view of the subject is borne out by the fact that even in the human subject we find here and there tubes occupying the place of the cells and their radiating tubes, while in certain fish the cells are almost entirely absent and the simple tubes general. • In such instances the tubes hold the same relation to the Haversian canals as do the bone cells where they exist. (See fig. 456.) The cells when seen by transmitted light,espe- cially in a transverse section of bone, appear perfectly opaque; this has given rise to the opinion that they contain some amorphous salt, and the fact that these same cells become trans- parent when the bone has been subjected to the action of acid, confirmed observers in this opinion, and that this salt was a salt of lime. When first these observations were commenced I was disposed to hold a like opinion, but fur- thennvestigation has convinced me that as a rule the cells are empty. I have seen, and that too very frequently, cells which were ob- viously without contents, and this observation may be repeated in any bone where the cells are tolerably large by making a section in the length of bone, and so parallel with the direction of most of the Haversian canals. By making such a section you expose the cells in their largest diameter, when they maybe seen into; whereas if cut through in their narrow diameter they are so deep that they produce complete interference of light, and so seem black, as though filled with some opaque substance. Again, if turpentine or thin Canada balsam be added to a section quite dry beforehand, the dark cells will become filled with turpentine or bal- sam, and so become transparent. The function performed by the bone cells is no doubt that of circulation. Atmospheric pressure would prevent them from remaining empty, and as their openings are always upon a surface where there are bloodvessels, the fluid portion of the blood is pro- bably carried into them. Supposing them once filled with liquor sanguinis, the varying density of the blood itself would produce a slow kind of circu-