PISCES. 1011 with a similar marsupial apparatus, in which the eggs are hatched and the young permitted to arrive at their full developement prior to their expulsion. These are the Syngnathidnc, or pipe-fishes. There is, however, this remark- able difference between the mammiferous mar- supials and these singularly organized genera, namely, that in the former it is the female that is furnished with the marsupial pouch, whereas in the Syngnathidae the male only is so pro- vided. In Jig. 539, representing the male of Syngnathus acus, the marsupial apparatus is well exhibited; it consists of two large valves («) situated beneath the tail, immediately pos- terior to the cloacal orifice. The internal sur- face of this pouch is indented with deep cells (o, o), more especially towards its posterior surface, where the ova are principally lodged. Here the eggs are hatched, after which the young Syngnathi are retained in the pouch for a considerable period before they are finally ex- pelled. In the female Syngnathus there is no sub- caudal pouch developed, but in this sex the vulva is unusually prominent, apparently for the purpose of facilitating the conveyance of the ova into the marsupium of the male. In Syngnathus ophidian (Bloch) the ova, after extrusion from the female and impregna- tion, become attached to the cellular surface of the ventral parietes of the abdomen of the male, but are not protected by cutaneous processes or valves. Urinary apparatus.—The kidneys in Fishes, as in all other Vertebrata, are two in number, situated on each side of the spine. They are, however, in the class before us remarkable for their very great proportionate size, some- times extending from the anterior boundary of the abdomen quite to its posterior ex- tremity, and occasionally uniting together in the mesial plane, so as to have the appearance of being but a single gland. Internally they present no division into cortex and fasciculate ducts terminating in a pelvic cavity, but their parenchyma is homogeneous, being entirely composed of arborescent ducts, which are im- mediately continuous with the ureters, which, running along the anterior surfaceof the kidney, receive the uriniferous tubes as they pass along towards the cloaca, where they terminate. Most commonly there is a distinct urinary or allan- toid bladder situated behind or dorsad to the rectum (fig. 539, J), which, in some spe- cies, is bifid at the anterior extremity, as in the Frog and other amphibia. Occasionally the urinary canals unite and terminate by a common duct (ureter) upon a fleshy tubercle or penis-like projection of the walls of the cloaca, as in the female Shark (fig. 538, t), where a bristle is represented in- troduced into the extremity of the urinary passage. Renal capsules.—In the osseous Fishes these organs are supposed to be represented by two or sometimes three roundish bodies of a light grey colour, situated sometimes near the mid- dle, oftener at the hinder extremities of the kidneys, at or near the entry of the hcemal canal; sometimes they lie free, sometimes they are imbedded in the renal tissue (Pike, Salmon, Eel); but they always possess a proper cap- sule and present a minutely granular texture without distinction of cortical and medullary parts.* In the yellowish suprarenal bodies of the Sturgeon, the granules are minute spherical cells filled by microscopic nucleated corpuscles. In the Plagiostomes they are represented by elongated narrow yellowish bodies situated be- hind the kidneys, and sometimes extending be- hind the dilated ureters. Bibliography. — Cuvier, Lemons d'anatomie comparee, 8vo. 1846. Cuvier et Valenciennes, His- toire naturelle des poissons, 4to. 1828. Halter, Opera minora, vol. iii. Monro, Structure and phy- siology of Fishes, fol. 1785. Observations on the organ of hearing in man and other animals, 4to. 1797. Scarpa, De auditu et olfactu, fol. 1789. Comparetti de aure interna comparata, 4to. 1789. Hewson, Phil. Trans, vol. lix. Cuvolini, Memoria sulla generazione dei pesci e dei granchi, 4to. 1787. Autenrieth, Anatomic de la plie. Wiedemann's Archiv, torn. i. 1800. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, An- nates des Museum d'llist. Sat. t. ix. ik x. Rosen- thal, Ichthyomische Tafcln, 4to. 1812-22. Spix. Cephalogenesis, fol. 1815. Cams, Lelirbuch der Zootomie, 8vo. et 4to. 1818. Erlantrrungs-tafeln zur vergleichenden anatomie, fol. 1826 Weber, De aure et auditu. Van der Hocven, Dissertatio philosoph. de sceleto piscium, 8vo. 1822. Bakker, Osteographia piscium, 4to. 1822. Meckel, Traite d'anatcomp. 8vo. 1828-9. Owen, Lectures on com- parative anatomy, Lond. 1847. * Owen's Lectures, (Pisces, p. 285.) ( T. Rymer Junes.) PLACENTA. See Ovum (Supplement) and Uterus.