910 PENIS. they are firmly attached. The trabecules are most abundant in the middle line of the organ, where they are extended in a vertical direction from the middle line of the infe- rior to the middle line of the superior wall, forming a partial septum between the two lateral halves of the corpus cavernosum. The median partition is most complete posteriorly; in front it is very deficient, and being com- posed of parallel fibrous cords, between which the cellular structure of the two sides of the organ communicate, has given rise to the idea from which it received its name of septum pectinifor/ne. The fibrous cords of the corpus cavernosum serve, by means of their attachment to every point of the interior of its fibrous tunic, to equalise the pressure of the circula- tion during erection, and prevent the undue distention of its walls. The fibrous tunic is variable in degree of thickness in different parts of its extent; thus it is thin upon the crura penis, and is thin also in the situation of the inferior groove and at its extremity; in the two latter situations it is pierced by several vessels which communicate with those of the corpus spongiosum and glans penis. The cellular structure of the corpus caver- nosum is composed of a plexus of dilated veins, which communicate with each other so freely as to represent, when divided by a sec- tion, a perfect network of cells separated from each other by membranous parietes. The area; of these venous cells are smallest near the cir- cumference of the corpus cavernosum, where they are separated by a greater thickness of parietes, and greatest in the centre of each la- teral half, where the intervening septa are thin and membranous. The veins are lined in their interior by a continuation of the common in- ternal coat of the veins, and the interspaces be- tween them are occupied by contractile fibrous tissue. The contractile fibrous tissue is dis- posed in parallel fibres separated to unequal distances by common areolar tissue ; it is most abundant in the thicker parietes of the veins of the circumference of the corpus cavernosum, and is diminished to two or three fibres in the thinner walls of the central veins. The fibres are straight in their direction, and arranged transversely with regard to the cylinder of the corpus cavernosum. Upon meeting the cy- linder of a vein in their course they diverge at an acute angle, and continue their straight direction until again obstructed by another vein, when they again separate without exhi- biting any tendency to converge and enclose the vein. At the point of divergence they are crossed by other fibres at the same angle, but coming in a different direction, so that the parietes between each vein are formed by nu- merous fibres of this tissue, crossing each other at the angles of interstice between three or four veins, but straight and parallel between every two contiguous veins. The contractile fibrous tissue is remarkably abundant in the horse, where, from the redness of its hue, it resembles muscular substance ; in man it is not abun- dant but very distinct, and in some situations I was enabled to detect it encircling the cyjin- vol. nr. ders of the veins, and forming as it were an additional coat to those vessels. The contractile fibrous tissue of the corpus caverndsum has been made the subject of con- troversy between several of the physiologists of Germany, on account of its resemblance to muscular substance and the absence of other attributes of muscular fibre. It is described by Muller in the 48th number of the Medici- nische Zeitung des Vereins fur Heilkunde in Preussen, as a peculiar, red, fibrous substance, and in the Archiv for 1835* he speaks of it as a " substance having a fleshy muscular appear- ance, of a pale red colour in the penis of the horse, and also in the dog and man. It forms an irregular network of columns (Balken) dis- tantly resembling the network and trabecular structure of the muscular columns of the heart." His next inquiry was to determine the nature of this substance. " To decide," he says, " whether a reddish fibrous tissue be muscular or otherwise, there are three modes,— the microscope, chemical re-agents, and expe- riment on the living body. In vivisection of the horse, dog, and ram, I saw no contraction of this substance under the influence of the galvanic current. The results of microscopic investigation in the horse are unfavourable to the opinion that it is muscular, for the fasci- culi present no indication of the characteristic transverse striae of muscular fibre, for although the transverse striae be indistinct on the mus- cular fasciculi of organic life, they nevertheless exist. In stating the results of chemical in- vestigation, I must remark that I speak solely of this peculiar substance as examined in the horse, and not of that of any other animal or of man. To render these experiments accurate and certain, it is necessary to remove from the tissue every particle of tendinous fibre which may pervade it, for this, as we shall perceive, has a very different chemical composition. In chemical characters, the substance under con- sideration does not belong to those tissues which afford gelatine by boiling, as is the case with tendinous, cartilaginous, and cellular tissue; for, after seven hours' boiling, I was unable to extract from the pure tissue, separated from all foreign substances, the slightest trace of gela- tine. By boiling we obtain a substance preci- pitable by infusion of galls, which does not gelatinize, but gives off a powerful odour of osmazome. It agrees with mu?cu!ar fibre and fibrme in being precipitated from a solution in acetic acid by ferro-cyanate of potash, and differs in this respect from the class to which cellular tissue, tendinous tissue, and elastic tissue belong, for these are not invariably pre- cipitable from a solution in acetic acid by ferro- cyanate of potash. It would, however, be incorrect to deduce the conclusion that this tissue must therefore be muscular, for there exists an entire class of substances whose solu- tion in acetic acid is precipitable by ferro- cyanate of potash, such as albumen, fibrine, muscular tissue, and corneous tissue." * Page 28, in his report for the preceding year, in reply to a misapprehension on the part of Krause. 3 N