LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 224 hernia, he unsparingly divides the principal lymphatics and glands in the inguinal region. In the next place these vessels vary so much in number, and consequently in position in different individuals, while there exist so many parts, where their presence is rather presumed than demonstrated, that a general outline of their course is all that can be re- quired or depended upon. In the distribution of these vessels two principal objects are spe- cially provided for; the conveyance of the lymph to its appropriate glands, and after- wards from them to the two trunks of the sys- tem. We, consequently, first notice an evident tendency of the vessels from the structures in which they take origin towards the glands which intervene between them and the trunks of the system ; secondly, their necessary course From these glands to the trunks themselves. With this key to the distribution of these vessels, I propose to describe, first, the posi- tion of the glands, then to treat of the trunks of the system; and, lastly, having these two fixed points, to trace the vessels throughout their course. In the lower extremities the conglobate glands are chiefly found in the inguinal region, where they are divided into a superficial and deeper seated cluster; a few small glands are situated in the popliteal space surrounding the bloodves- sels. We rarely meet with one between the popliteal space and the inguinal region, and they are only occasionally met with below the knee, and then isolated and extremely small. In the upper extremity the large and clustered lym- phatic glands are only found in the axillary space; a single gland is generally located just above the internal condyle of the humerus; below this point a distinct gland is rarely met with. In the cervical region the principal lympha- tic glands are situated in two cellular intervals, found at the upper part between the omo-byoid and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, and below between the latter muscle and the trapezius. The glands in these positions are ranged in a line so as to form a sort of chain of glands, hence the term glandula? concatenate as applied to them. On the head and face the glands are few, small, and isolated. One may be pretty con- stantly met with behind the ear over the mas- toid process of the temporal bone, another in front of the ear in the neighbourhood of the parotid gland. One or two will be found under the margin of the lower jaw, both in the median line and also more laterally situated. A small lymphatic gland will usually be distin- guished amonst the numerous but small buccal and labial glands. In the cavity of the cranium no lymphatic glands have been discovered, but in the abdo- minal and thoracic cavities they are very nume- rous. In the abdomen they are chiefly situated in the neighbourhood of the larger bloodvessels. In the pelvic region they form clusters, or rather chains of glands accompanying the external, in- ternal, and common iliac vessels, and in the lumbar region they are similarly arranged on either side of the aorta, as high as the point of origin of the superior mesenteric artery. The absorbent glands which intercept the lacteals in their course towards the receptaculum chyli are large and numerous; they are situ- ated between the folds of the mesentery, and accompany the trunk and some of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery; they are usually termed mesenteric glands. The remain- ing lymphatic glands of the abdominal viscera, though numerous, are smaller and more isolated; they will generally be found close to the arteries of the viscera to which they belong, and conse- quently between the folds of the peritoneum. Of this description may be considered those accompanying the hepatic and splenic vessels : the coronary and gastro-epiploic arteries of the stomach, the small glands of the mesocolon or epiploon, those associated with the renal or spermatic arteries. The largest absorbent glands of the thoracic cavity are those which receive the lymphatics from the lungs; they are situated at the roots of the lungs, pretty closely attached to the bronchi; they are generally of a dark colour and are called bronchial glands. Those asso- ciated with the lymphatic vessels of the heart are few and small ; two or three may generally be noticed of the size of millet-seeds on the aorta and pulmonary artery, where these vessels are invested by the pericardium. In the poste- rior mediastinum close to the thoracic duct three or four large lymphatic glands are usually met with, as well as several smaller ones in the intercostal spaces, not far from the thoracic duct. In the anterior mediastinum also some small glands may be observed imbedded in loose cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the internal mammary vessels. Occasionally a small gland may be seen on the convex sur- face of the diaphragm. In the substance or parenchyma of the dif- ferent organs no lymphatic glands have been detected. They have never been seen in the brain, spinal marrow, in the lungs, liver, spleen, kidney, or testicles, in nerve, muscle, or bone. Having given this general outline of the position of the lymphatic glands, I shall now proceed to describe the trunks of the system. The thoracic duct, (Jig. 53,) or principal trunk of the lymphatic system, generally com- mences on the body of the second lumbar vertebra pretty exactly in the median line, concealed behind the root of the right emul- gent artery, bounded on the right by the right crus of the diaphragm, and to the left by the aorta, to which it is connected by cellular tissue. It may be said to be formed by the union of the lymphatics of the lower extremities with the trunks of the lacteals proceeding from the intestines. At the conflux of the principal vessels from these three sources,—and there may be more than one from each,—a dilatation is sometimes found, which has been called the receptaculum chyli. From the body of the se- cond lumbar vertebra the thoracic duct ascends into the thorax between the aorta and vena azygos. In the thorax it is situated behind the right pleural fold of the posterior medias-