181 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. in a living animal so as to resemble an hour- glass. Andral thinks that he has perceived muscular fibres in the hypertrophied coats of the gall-bladder, and Ferrus records a case as occurring to Amussat where, in obstruction to the ductus choledochus by a gall-stone, the middle coat of the gall-bladder and ducts above the impediment was evidently muscular. This preparation was seen by Kiernan at the time that it occurred. The bile during its stay in the gall-bladder becomes inspissated by the removal of the fluid part of the secretion, which is most probably taken up by the numerous lymphatics which cover its surface. The uses of' the bile are threefold ; 1. it acts chemically upon the chyme and produces the separation of the chyle ; 2. it combines with the residuum and forms the faecal matter ; 3. it stimulates the mucous surface of the canal and promotes its secretion, and the contractile action of the muscular coat. Red and yellow substances of Terrein.— Since the period when anatomists were di- vided in their considerations of the liver by ihe two great contending opinions of Malpighi and Ruysch, the former maintaining its com- position of glands, and the latter of mi- nute vessels, the majority of observers have adopted the views proposed by Ferrein, who was the first to vindicate the existence of two distinct substances, which he named cortical and medullary. It was reserved for Kiernan in our own day to prove that " the structure of all the lobules is similar;" that " each lo- bule is the same throughout; " that " one part of a lobule is not more vascular than another ;" and that " there is, therefore, no distinction of red and yellow substances in the liver; the red colour results from congestion only." This doctrine being now established as an undis- puted truth, it is not surprising to observe that anatomists and pathologists differed in opinion with regard to the relative position and appear- ance which these two imaginary substances occupied in the respective livers which they chanced to examine, and upon which they established their decision. Thus we find that Ferrein described the medullary substance as being red in colour, and of a pulpy con- sistence, and the cortical as friable in its struc- ture, and of a yellowish red colour. Auten- rieth, on the contrary, found the red substance to be cortical and the yellow medullary. Mappes having obtained a liver in a different state of congestion, conceives that the yellow substance might be named granulated; he de- cribes it as forming convolutions, one while like intestines, and another while branched, flat, or rounded; and the spaces between the convolutions as being rounded, or resem- bling oblong fissures filled with a brownish and loose substance. Meckel coincides with Mappes in the relative position of these parts ; they are not, he says, placed as in the brain, one on the exterior, the other in the interior, but they alternate throughout the entire organ, the yellow substance forming the mass of the liver, and the brown filling the interspaces. Rudolphi objects to the terms medullary and cortical. Bouillaud asserts that the yellow sub- stance presents itself in the form of granu- lations having the figure, colour, and arrange- ment of the secreting granules of the bile known, as he remarks, under the name of acini. These granules, he says, are surrounded by the brown substance, which therefore as- sumes an angular appearance; it is composed of a vascular net-work, and may be compared to erectile tissue. Andral, in his Anatomie Pathologique, says, " Lorsqu'on examine avec quelque soin un certain nombre de foies, Ton y reconnait l'existence de deux substances: l'une rougeatre, ou se ramifie surtout le sys- teme capillaire de l'organe ; l'autre blanche ou jaunatre, qui semble surtout destinee a 1'accom- plissement de la secretion biliare. Dans l'etat normal ces deux substances sont distinctes." The opinion of Ferrein is opposed by Portal and Cruveilhier: the former anatomist, after reproving certain modern authors who wished to combine the views of Malpighi and Ruysch by admitting that the liver was formed both of glands and of a prodigious number of vessels, contents himself by asserting that Ferrein's idea of the composition of the glands of the liver of two substances was gratuitous. To Cruveil- hier the distinction of two substances appears ill founded, for he observes that the two colours when they exist, which is not constantly the case, do not belong to two distinct granula- tions, but to one and the same, which is yel- lowish in the centre where the bile predo- minates, and of a brownish red in the circum- ference where the blood is situated. Kiernan ranks Muller among the authors who entertain an opposite opinion to that of Ferrein, but I find upon referring to his work upon the glands, that he distinctly admits a kind of double substance although he objects to its de- signation, medullary and cortical; hence he ob- serves :—" Diversam substantiam hepatis, ut- pote medullarem et corticalem, quae per hepar totum undique obveuiunt, qualem Autenrieth, Bichat, Cloquet, Mappes, atque etiam J. Fr. Meckel admittunt, equidem neque in historia evolutionis amphibiorum et avium, neque in hepate adultorum microscopice observato con- spexi. Historia evolutionis hanc quoestionem evidentissime illustrat. Systema nimirum duc- tuum biliferorum in embryone amphibiorum et avium liberis finibus in superficie hepatis pro- minulis conspicuum. Sarmentula ilia foliatim et paniculatim divaricata, colore e gilvo can- dido nitent, magnopere ab interstitiis sanguino- lentis distincta. Hinc sane duplicis substantia; species exoritur, quoniam circum ductuum bi- liferorum a tela conjunctiva expleantur, quae ex subtilissimis fere constat vasculorum sangui- ferorum retibus, in quibus arterioe et venulae advehentes in revehentes venas transeunt. Alque ha;c sola est utriusque substantias notio. Sed in omnibus organis glandulosis fere idem obvenit." In his Physiology he is disposed to modify his previous idea of two substances, for he says, " From my researches, however, it results that there is but one kind of real he- patic substance, formed of agglomerated biliary canals ; but the ramified divisions of this sub-