335 MICROSCOPE. towards the object, the aberration is 4£ times the thickness of the lens. Hence, when a plano- convex lens is employed, its convex surface should be turned towards a distant object, when it is used to form an image by bringing to a focus parallel or slightly-diverging rays; but it should be turned towards the eye, when it is used to render parallel the rays which are diverging from a very near object. The single lens having the least spherical aberration is a double convex, whose radii are as 1 to 6. When the flattest face is turned toward parallel rays, the aberration is nearly 3§ times its thick- ness ; but when the most convex side receives or transmits them, the aberration is only ^ths of its thickness. The spherical aberration may be still further diminished, however, or even got rid of altogether, by making use of com- binations of lenses so disposed that their op- posite aberrations shall correct each other, whilst magnifying power is still gained. For it is easily seen that, as the aberration of a con- cave lens is just the opposite of that of a con- vex lens, the aberration of a convex lens placed in its most favourable position may be cor- rected by a concave lens of much less power in its most unfavourable position; so that, although the power of the convex lens is weak- ened, all the rays which pass through this com- bination will be brought to one focus. This is the principle of the aplunutic doublet proposed by Sir J. F.W. Herschel, consist- j?j„ 157^ ing of a double-convex lens of Jf |\ the most favourable form, and a \, 1,'ja meniscus with the concave of MSmS longer focus than the convex.* Ml A doublet of this kind may be fJ I made of great use in the mi- W lilf croscope, as we shall hereafter r show. Herschel's But the spherical aberration is not doublet. the only imperfection with which the optician has to contend in the construction of micro- scopes. A difficulty equally serious arises from the unequal refrangibility of the differentcoloured rays, which together make up white or colour- less light,t so that they are not all brought to the same focus, even by a lens free from sphe- rical aberration. It is this difference in their refrangibility which causes their complete sepa- ration by the prism into a spectrum; and it manifests itself, though in a less degree, in the image formed by a convex lens. For if pa- rallel rays of white light fall upon a convex surface, the most refrangible of its component rays, namely, the violet, will be brought to a focus at a point somewhat nearer to the lens than the principal focus, which is the mean of the whole; and the converse will be true of the red rays, which are the least refrangible, and whose focus will therefore be more distant. * The exact curvatures to be given to these sur- faces will be found in the original memoir, Phil. Trans. 1821. t It has been deemed better to adhere to the ordinary phraseology, when speaking of this fact, as more generally intelligible than the language in which it might be more scientifically described, and at the same time leading to no practical error. fig. 158. A M A 11 B T. - r t 1} A 11 2sf~ - r Diagram illustrative of chromatic aberration. A B, rays of white light refracted by a convex lens ; C, the focus of the violet rays, which then cross and diverge towards E F; D, the focus of the red rays which are crossed at the points E E, by the violet; the middle point of this line is the mean focus, or focus of least aber- ration. This is easily proved experimentally. If a lens be so fixed as to receive the solar rays, and to illuminate a white screen at any dis- tance between the lens and the mean focus, the luminous circle will have a red border, because the red rays will there form the exterior of the cone; but if it be removed beyond the mean focus, the circle will have a violet border, be- cause the violet rays will then be outermost. As the spherical aberration would be mixed up with the chromatic in such an experiment, the undisguised effect of the latter will be better seen by taking a large convex lens, and co- vering up its central part, so as to allow the light to pass only through a peripheral ring; and since the greater the alteration in the course of the rays, the greater will be the separation of the colours, (or dispersion, as it is techni- cally called,) this ring will exhibit the pheno- menon much better than would be done by the central portion of the lens. Hence, in prac- tice, the chromatic aberration is partly obviated by the same means used to diminish the sphe- rical aberration,—the contraction of the aper- ture of the lens, so that a very small portion of the whole sphere is really employed. But this contraction is attended with so much in- jury to the performance of the microscope in other respects, that it becomes extremely de- sirable to avoid it. In no single lens can any correction for chromatic aberration be effected ; and it requires a very nice adjustment of two, three, or even more, to accomplish this with perfection. The correction is accomplished by bringing into use the different dispersive powers of va- rious materials, which bear no relation to their simple refracting power. As the effects of con- cave lenses are in all respects the converse of convex, it is obvious that, if a concave lens of the same curvature be placed in apposition with the convex, in such an experiment as that just alluded to, the dispersion of the rays will be entirely prevented, but neither will any change in the course of the rays take place. If, however, we can obtain a substance of higher dispersive power in proportion to its power of refraction, it is obvious that a con- cave lens of less curvature formed of it will correct the dispersion occasioned by the convex lens, without altogether antagonising the re- fraction of the latter. This is accomplished