752 NUTRITION. on the part of the bladder; and those of the stomach also become so in cases of stricture of the pylorus. As an instance of hypertrophy of a secreting organ in consequence of an undue excitement of its function, we may notice the enlargement which usually takes place in the kidney, when its fellow is incapacitated by disease. And the nervous system presents us witb a very remarkable case of hypertrophy of a part resulting from over-excitement of its function; for if young persons who naturally show precocity of intellect are encouraged rather than checked in the use of their brain, the increased nutrition of the organ (which grows faster than its bony case) occasions pressure upon its vessels, it becomes indurated and inactive, and fatuity and coma are the result. Local hypertrophy may be induced also by local congestions ; but in such cases it will usually be found that the form of tissue produced is of the lowest kind, unless the functional activity of the part be increased by the congestion. Thus when disease of the heart produces long-continued congestion of the lungs, liver, spleen, &c., the bulk of these organs increases ; but chiefly by the produc- tion of an additional amount of interstitial areolar tissue, which may result (as we have seen) from the simple consolidation of fibrin ; and partly also (in the case of the spleen espe- cially) by the gorging of their distensible veins with blood.—One of the least explicable cases of hypertrophy is that which takes place in the thyroid gland, causing bronchocele. So little is known of the normal office of this organ, that it cannot be determined whether its in- creased size be due to an increased activity of its functional operations, or to an unusual formative activity in its tissue, depending on some hidden cause. The connection of this disorder with causes which affect the whole constitution, rather than individual parts, would seem to indicate the former. When the waste of the tissues is more rapid than their replacement by nutrition, atrophy is said to take place; and this may affect either the whole body, or individual parts. General atrophy, marasmus, or emaciation, may result from an insufficient supply of plastic matter, from want of formative power in the tissues themselves, or from their too rapid disintegra- tion. The insufficiency of the supply of nutri- tive matter may depend either on deficiency in the azotized substances ingested as food, or on imperfect performance of those processes by which they are converted into the plastic element,—fibrin. Hence, even when there is an ample supply of food, atrophy may take place to a very severe extent, in consequence of disordered digestion, or of want of vital power in the fibrin-elaborating cells. Again, we have reason to believe that the formative power in the tissues themselves may be diminished, so as to check the process of nutrition, even when the plastic material is supplied ; thus there seems to be a complete stoppage of this action in fever, and a diminution of it in that irritable state of the system, which results from excessive and prolonged bodily exertion or anxiety of mind, especially when accompanied by want of sleep. It is difficult to separate this cause, however, from mal-assimilation on the one hand, or too rapid decay of the tissues on the other : for we know that, in such states, there is a tendency to imperfect elaboration of the fibrinous element, and at the same time an unusually rapid disintegration, as mani- fested by the increased amount of urea in the urine. The influence of excessive waste in causing atrophy of the body is well shown in the cases of diabetes mellitus and colliquative diarrhoea; for in both these, the increase and depravation of the secretions are undoubtedly to be regarded as the effects, and not the causes, of the textural changes with which they are as- sociated. Colliquative diarrhoea is a constant occurrence on the last day or two of life in animals reduced by starvation, and is accom- panied by that foetid odour of the body, which indicates that decomposition is already going on throughout the system. The same thing occurs as the ordinary termination to many diseases of exhaustion; in which inanition is unquestionably the immediate cause of death. Partial atrophy may occur in consequence of disuse of the organ affected, occasioning inactivity in its formative processes; or as a result of a deficiency of nu- triment, occasioned by an obstruction to the circulation. Of the operation of the former cause we have many examples in the ordinary processes of the economy. Thus the uterus is atrophied, relatively to its previous condition, as soon as parturition has taken place ; and the mammary glands, when lactation has been dis- continued. It is probably in part to this cause, and in part to the diversion of the blood into other channels, that we are to attribute the atrophy of many parts, as the developement of the system advances, which at an earlier period were of large comparative size,—such as the corpora Wolfb'ana, the suprarenal capsules, and the thymus gland. Many instances might be adverted to, of the influence of suspension of functional activity, as a result of disease or injury, in producing local atrophy. One of the most common cases is the atrophy of muscles which is consequent upon their disuse. This disuse will produce the same effect, whether it be occasioned by paralysis, which prevents the nervous centres from exciting the muscles to contraction ; or by anchylosis, which inter- poses a mechanical impediment to their use; or by fractures or other accidents, the re- paration of which requires the limb to be kept at rest. Or even if, without having suffered from any injury, a limb be fixed during some time in one posture, its muscles will be- come atrophied, as is seen in the case of the Indian fakirs. It has been shown by Dr. J. Reid, that the atrophy of the muscles, and their consequent loss of contractility, is not to be im- puted to the withdrawal of nervous influence, in any other way than as producing cessation of their activity ; for he found that, when the mus- cles of one leg of a frog, both whose crural nerves had been divided, were daily exercised by gal- vanism, they retained much more of their usual size and firmness than those of the leg which was