MOTION. 455 articulations of the carpal and tarsal bones allow a very limited motion. The axes of these bones are inclined almost vertically, but those of the metatarsal and metacarpal bones are directed rather more horizontally. The phalan- ges of the toes diverge from each other to give a broader base of support to these great digiti- grade quadrupeds: their walk is slow and heavy, and the order in which the legs move is the same as in the Solidungula. Carnivura.—In the structure of carnivorous quadrupeds, such as the Lion and Tiger, we observe the strength of the more ponderous and slow-moving Ruminants, as the Ox, com- bined with the agility and speed of those lighter forms, as the Stag. This union of strength with speed is due to the geometrical and physical relations of the elements that enter into the composition of these powerful digiti- grade Camivora. The spine possesses greater mobility by the retraction of the spinous and transverse processes, and the trunk is of less weight and bulk compared to their mus- cular power than in the herbivorous rumi nants. In the Lion the scapula, which is directed very obliquely forwards, is unfettered in its motions by a clavicle; the humerus is long and cylindrical, and has its axis directed downwards and backwards, forming, with that of the scapula, an angle of 110°; the radius and ulna are articulated so as to allow of pro- nation and supination ; the olecranon projects several inches beyond the axis of rotation in the elbow-joint, and constitutes a powerful lever for the application of the tendons of the extensor muscles of the arm ; the direction of the sacro-iliac articulation is eccentric to that of the sacrum, and the pelvis, which is inclined very obliquely backwards, forms, with the pro- jection of the vertebral column, an angle of about 110°; the femur is directed forwards in standing at an angle with the pelvis of 84°; the tibia and fibula are distinct bones; the calca- neum is of great length ; the tarsus and meta- tarsus inclined vertically, the phalanges horizon- tally; the last of which is elevated above the plane of motion.* In both the arms and legs the phalanges terminate in strong, curved, re- tractile claws for the prehension and laceration of prey. The posterior extremities in both the lion and tiger are longer, and the bones in- clined more obliquely to each other than the anterior, giving them greater elasticity and power in springing: they walk, trot, and gallop upon the same principle as the horse. Cheiroptera.—The bat being principally or- ganized for flight, is provided with compara- tively diminished powers of progression upon solids; the legs are feeble and incapable of supporting the trunk, and they move by a crawling, and sometimes a small leaping motion. Quadrumana.—Of all Mammalia, the figure and organization of the Quadrumana approx- imates most nearly to man. They are destined * It is in consequence of the direction which the tarsal, metatarsal, aud phalangeal bones take, that the Carnivora and other animals arc digiti- grade. to climb the trees of the forest; to leap from branch to branch; to walk, trot, or gallop as quadrupeds upon plain surfaces, with the trunk directed either horizontally, or to walk as bipeds upon the posterior extremities alone, with the trunk directed vertically. For these several positions of the trunk and modes of progression they are furnished with a suitable geometrical conformation of their osseous frame- work, more especially in the Ourangs and Chimpanzee. In the Quadrumana the spinal column has greater freedom of motion than in the Pachydermata and Ruminantia. The sca- pula, which is directed forwards at an acute angle with the vertebral column, is supported by a clavicle; the ginglymoid cavity is deep, for the secure rotation of the head of the humerus; the latter is long, but slender in the Hylobates or long-armed Gibbon; the radius and ulna are distinct and free from the motions of pro- nation and supination ; the carpus is often composed of nine bones by the division of one in the second row, to give greater mobility to the hand; the metacarpus and phalanges are much lengthened, but the same in number as in man ; the iliac bones, which are long and narrow, are directed backwards nearly parallel to the vertebral column, but presenting with it posteriorly a very small angle ; the tuberosities of the ischium incline outwards, giving a large base of support to the animal when resting on its callosities. In the Hylobates,the femur is curved and of less length than the humerus, but it is nearly of equal length in the Chimpanzee and Ourangs. The tibia and fibula are long and slen- der ; the articulations of the astragalus, calcis, scaphoid, cuboid, and cuneiform bones are directed obliquely, which gives to the ankle- joint a motion eccentric to the axis of the leg, the effect of which is to throw the animal upon the outer edge of the hands and feet. The long metatarsal and phalangeal bones are in- clined upwards and inwards, by which they are adapted for prehension in climbing or standing on the branches of trees; the calcaneum is short, and its axis of motion is eccentric, with respect to the direction of the tendons of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles ; which, though not very powerful, act at a mechanical disadvantage tending to diminish their effective force in a twofold manner. In many Quadru- mana, as the Cercopithecus and Semno- pithecus, the lengthened and flexible tail is employed as an organ of prehension, but in the Macacus and others the tail is pendent, and not employed in their movements. In the Mandrills the tail is very short; the Simia, Pithecus and Simia Innuns have merely a tuber- cle, whilst the Ourangs and Gibbons are desti- tute of this organ altogether; the deficiency of the mass of extensor muscles of the ankle- joint in the Gibbons and Jockos is alleged by Daubenton * as a reason why these apes cannot maintain themselves in the erect position. Per- rault is of opinion that the straightness of the ossa ilia prevents the extensor muscles * lincyclop. Metliodique Dictionnaire des Ani- maux, p. 20.