NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Spinal Cord.) 657 tomoses of the two anterior spinal branches of the vertebral. In one case there was no artery on the left side, but the right was twice as large as usual. The vessel is of considerable size until it has passed below the cervical enlarge- ment of the cord, from which point down nearly to the lumbar enlargement it becomes exceedingly delicate; a little above the last- named enlargement it suddenly increases in size, again gradually diminishes as it ap- proaches the lower end of the spinal cord, and becoming capillary is prolonged down to the sacrum, together with the fibrous string in which the spinal cord terminates." " During its course this artery receives la- teral branches from the ascending cervical and the vertebral in the neck, and from the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the back and loins. Those branches pene- trate the fibrous canal formed by the dura mater around each of the spinal nerves; be- come applied to the nervous ganglia to which they supply branches, yet intermixed with and follow the course of the corresponding nerves; send small twigs backwards to the posterior spinal arteries, and terminate in the anterior spinal trunk at variable angles, similar to those at which the nerves are attached to the cord."* The posterior spinal arteries arise from the vertebral or from the inferior cerebellar artery: they incline backwards to the posterior surface of the spinal marrow, along which they descend in a tortuous manner, anatomosing freely with each other and with the small arteries which accompany the nerves in the intercostal fora- mina. A network of vessels surrounds each posterior root of a spinal nerve, derived from ramifications of those arteries. We can trace the posterior spinal arteries as low down as the lumbar region, distinct throughout their entire course. Veins.—The blood is returned from the spinal cord by a venous plexus which emerges from the pia mater and is spread over its whole surface: opposite the roots of each nerve a small vein is formed, which passes outwards with the nerve in the same sheath, and empties itself into the large vein which is situate in the intervertebral foramen. Veins accompany the anterior and posterior spinal arteries in the upper part of their course. Branches from this plexus frequently pass to the dura mater involved in a fold of arachnoid, and thus com- municate with the general plexus which sur- rounds the sheath. We observe that the arteries of the spinal cord are reduced to a very minute size before they penetrate the substance of that organ. The largest vessels are therefore found on its surface or in its fissures. And it may be further remarked that when vessels of a size to be readily detected by the naked eye penetrate the substance, numerous foramina, produced by the separation of the nervous fibres, become distinctly visible. This is very obvious in the white commissure. The purpose of such a minute subdivision of * Cruveilhier, Anat. Descr. VOL. III. bloodvessels, prior to their entrance into the substance of the cord, must evidently be to guard the nervous substance against the impulse of several columns of blood of large size. A similar provision, made in a more conspicuous manner, is manifest iu the brain, and will be noticed by-and-bye. Of the spinal nerves.—There is a pair of spinal nerves for each intercostal foramen, and for that between the atlas and occiput. We can thus enumerate in all thirty-one pair of nerves having their origin from the spinal cord, and this number is exclusive of the spinal ac- cessory nerve which is connected with the upper part of the cervical region. The spinal nerves have the following very constant characters. Each has its origin by two roots, of which the anterior is distinct- ly inferior in size to the posterior. The ligamentum denticulatum is placed between these roots. Each root passes out through a distinct opening in the dura mater. Imme- diately after its emergence a ganglion is formed on each posterior root, and the ante- rior root lies embedded in the anterior surface of the ganglion and involved in the same sheath (Jig 378), but without mingling its fibres with those of the ganglion. Beyond it, Fig. 378. Oriqirt of o spinal nerver ' (After Bell.J A, A, anterior root. P, posterior ditto. G, ganglion on the posterior root. C, compound nerve resulting from the commin- gling of the fibres of both rools. the nervous fibres of both roots intermingle, and a compound spinal nerve results. The trunk thus formed passes immediately through the intervertebral tube and divides into an an- terior and posterior branch, which are distri- buted to the muscles and integument of the 2 u