753 NUTRITION. left at rest. A case has fallen under the writer's observation, in which both limbs were affected with almost complete (hysteric) paraplegia; but one was also frequently seized with violent cramps, from which the other was free ; the difference in the muscularity of the two limbs was very striking, and was evinced by the greater circumference of the one affected with cramps (which was an inch and a half larger round than the other), as well as by its greater firmness of flesh. Similar facts may be ad- duced, in regard to atrophy of nerves, from interruption of their normal function. Thus when the cornea has been rendered so opaque by accident or disease, that no light can pene- trate to the interior of the eye, the retina and the optic nerve lose, after a time, their charac- teristic structure ; so that scarcely a trace of the peculiar globules of the former, or of the nerve- tubes of the latter, can be found in them. These and similar facts are readily understood, when connected by the general principle for- merly laid down,-—that every proper vital operation involves an act of nutrition ; in such a manner that, whilst the vital properties of any part are dependent upon its due nutrition, the amount of its nutrition will in return depend upon the degree in which these properties arc exercised. Partial atrophy may depend, however, upon causes of a purely mechanical nature; such, for example, as produce an interruption of the current of blood through the part. This may result from changes in the arteries supplying it, such as ossification, or other forms of obstruc- tion. Or it may be consequent upon disease in the part itself; as when the deposits produced by inflammation tend to contract, and thus to press upon the vascular structure, which fre- quently happens in the lungs, liver, and kidneys; or when the inflammation occurs in the vessels themselves, causing adhesion of their walls, and obliteration of their tubes; or when a new growth absorbs into itself all the nutritive materials which the blood supplies. Abnormal forms of the nutritive process.— Under the preceding head we have considered the chief variations in the degree of activity that are witnessed in the ordinary or normal conditions of the nutritive process,—that is, those conditions in which the products are adapted by their similarity of character to re- place those which have been removed by dis- integration. But we have now to consider those forms of this process, in which the pro- ducts are abnormal,—being different from the tissues they ought to replace. We shall con- fine ourselves to a brief examination of the two most important of these states ;—that which is termed inflammation, and that which gives rise to tubercular deposit. The former results from an excess of the plastic element in the blood : the latter from a depraved condition of it, whereby its plasticity is impaired or de- stroyed. Notwithstanding all the attention which has been given to the state of the vessels in inflam- mation, a careful consideration of its phenomena, with the light which recent investigations have vol. nr. thrown upon these, leads us to attach com- paratively little importance to this, and to seek for the essential character of the process else- where. The researches of Addison, W illiams, Barry, Gulliver, Andral, and others, all seem to point to the following conclusions..—1. That there is a peculiar afflux or determination of the white corpuscles of the blood towards the in- flamed part. 2. That the total amount of these corpuscles in the circulating blood undergoes a great increase. 3. That the quantity of fibrin in the blood augments in proportion to the ex- tent and intensity of the inflammation ; and this even when it was previously, from the influence of some other morbid condition, below the usual standard. With its quantity, its plasticity or tendency to organization also increases in a healthy subject. Now when these facts are compared together, and are con- nected with those formerly adduced, in regard to the probable function of the white corpuscles of the blood, they lead almost irresistibly to the conclusion, that the process of inflammation essentially consists in an undue stagnation of the white corpuscles of the blood in the vesstls of the part, an excessive multiplication of these by the ordinary process of generation, and a con- sequent over-production of fibrin. By these changes, and by the results which follow them, inflammation may be distinguished from the various forms of hyperemia and congestion. To the results, then, we shall next direct our attention. It may be inferred, we think, from various phenomena, that whilst the formative power of the blood is increased in inflammation, that of the tissues is diminished. Certainly this is the case in regard to the system at large, when febrile irritation has been established ; for, not- withstanding the increased plasticity of the blood, we see the body wasting, instead of increasing in vigour. And it may be inferred, also, in regard to the tissues of the part affected, from the ten- dency to atrophy and disintegration which they exhibit; and which is greater (leading even lo the death of whole parts) in proportion as the in- flammation is more intense, and as the tendency to the deposit of new products is the more decided. That a stagnation of blood takes' place in the vessels of the inflamed part is another general fact, which throws some light upon the nature of the process ; for this stag- nation is obviously favourable to the transu- dation of the fluid plasma of the blood, through the walls of the vessels, into the surrounding tissue, or upon a neighbouring surface. This deposition of the fibrinous element, possessing a high degree of plasticity, and capable of spon- taneously passing into simple forms of tissue (which may be gradually replaced by higher forms, when penetrated by vessels from the surrounding parts), may be regarded as the first characteristic result of inflammation. That this deposition of the fibrin, which has accu- mulated to an unusual extent in the blood, should take place only in the inflamed part, cannot perhaps be very readily accounted for; but we see that, when the inflammatory diathesis is once established,—or, in other 3 c