503 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. apparatus at the extremity of each secreting tube, apparently designed to furnish a flow of water down the canal.* A large quantity of water is evidently required in this secretion as a menstruum for the salts and proximate prin- ciples it contains; and there is no doubt, from the analogy of other glands, that the walls of the tubes are the membrane secreting these substances. Now the epithelium constitutes at least isths of their thickness, and is the only part of them with which the water can come into contact. It therefore seems highly pro- bable that this fluid is provided in the manner described, in order to dissolve, out of the epithelial particles, the peculiar principles which they have previously assimilated from the blood. In support of this general position it may be observed, further, 1. That the epithelium, which constitutes so large a portion of the true glands, is solid and bulky, usually character- ized by its finely granular texture, and in this respect contrasts strongly with that lining the vascular system, which is of extreme delicacy and transparence. The exceptions to this re- mark confirm its importance. In the air-cells of the lungs, the secretions of which are ga- seous and not solid, the epithelium is of great tenuity, and in the Malpighian capsules of the kidney, which appear to serve principally as receptacles for the aqueous fluid that escapes from the bare capillaries within them, this structure is either wanting or consists of per- fectly transparent particles. In many inter- mediate varieties, too, there appears traceable a correspondence between the bulk of the nu- cleated particles and the activity of the secreting function ; of which the scaly form in general may be mentioned as an instance. 2. That many peculiar substances are secreted into the interior of nucleated cells, although prevented, by the position of those cells, from escaping from the body. Such are various fats and fixed oils, colouring matters, &c. 3. That this func- tion of abstracting somewhat from the blood, and elaborating it, seems the most probable one that can be assigned to the thymus and thyroid bodies, the spleen, and supra-renal capsules, and specially to the nucleated par- ticles forming so large a portion of these several structures. On the whole there seems much weight of evidence in favour of the proposi- tion " that secretion is a function very nearly allied to ordinary growth and nutrition : that whereas these are a combination of two func- tions, assimilation of new particles and rejection of old, the old being reconveyed into the blood, secretion consists in a corresponding assimila- tion and rejection, but the old particles are at once thrown off from the system without re- entering the blood. According to this view, all effete material received into the blood, from the old substance of the various organs, must be reassimilated by an organized tissue, specially designed for the purpose, viz. the epithelium, before it can be eliminated : and all substances * Phil. Trans. Pt. I. 1842, p. 73. Sec also the article Ren. thrown off from the system, but designed for an ulterior purpose, must in like manner be assimilated in order to their separation." It places in a strong light a principle of great im- portance in physiology, the subordination of the bloodvessels and their contents to the tis- sues among which they are distributed. The function of secretion may therefore be considered to be universal over the mucous system, and its different activity in various si- tuations to be dependent on, as it certainly is closely associated with, differences in the ar- rangement and structure of the epithelial ele- ment. The basement membrane, from being absent from the lobules of the liver, seems a tissue of inferior (perhaps of no) importance in respect of this function, and probably is chiefly subservient, wherever it exists, to the mechanical support of the epithelium. There are probably three ways in which the secretions are finally separated from the body : and these three ways appear to have a reference to the chemical qualities of the product, and to their effete or non-effete character. 1. The par- ticles assimilated into the nucleated cell may be thrown off' by virtue of minute chemical changes occurring in it, without the cell itself being altered in form. In this case the nu- cleated cells will be permanent, or only very slowly renewed, and the secretion will be formed, or at least perfected, by the passage of its elements through the cells. 2. The nu- cleated cells, as they arrive at their full size, may undergo a slow change in the arrangement of their elements, and gradually disappear by a kind of solution or deliquescence, thus form- ing the secretion. 3. The nucleated cells, when mature, may be cast off at once, and entire, with their contents. The two last modes are attended with a continual formation of new cells. It would appear that, in general, where the secretion is formed by the rejected chemical elements of the cells (1), or by the destructive solution of the cells (2), it is effete; but that, when formed chiefly by the separation of cells that are mature and contain much organic matter (3), it is destined for ulterior purposes in the (Economy. Of the fust the kidney seems to be an example, of the second the liver, of the third the lining membrane of the stomach. The varieties in the qualities of the products secerned by different portions of the mucous system are only referrible to varieties in the elective powers of the tracts which respectively furnish them, and admit of being most readily exp'aincd by the view of the nature of secre- tion already advanced. It is unnecessary, in this place, to enter on a particular description of the boundaries of these several tracts, and I shall only offer a few observations on the nature and extent of that secretion which has given its name to the structures here treated of. The term mucus, like so many others trans- mitted from an early period, was originally employed to denote an exaggerated and partial condition, was subsequently applied more loosely and widely in a generic sense, and now requires to be reduced to a more definite