524 MUSCULAR MOTION. Independently of the immense disadvantage at which the hypothesis in question supposes the force to act, (viz. either between the par- ticles at the retiring angles only of the zig-zags, or between the distant angles themselves,) it seems quite inconsistent with the able experi- ments of Schwann, which show that the power of a muscle diminishes in a direct ratio with the degree of its contraction. With these experiments, indeed, any hypothesis is at variance which is based on the idea of an attraction between isolated and separate points or particles, as, for example, the sarcous ele- ments, for it cannot be conceived but that such an attractive force would augment in a multi- plying ratio with the proximity of the points attracted. 2. On passive and active contraction. Pas- sive contraction.—Passive contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, independently of stimuli, and by the mere quality of its tissue. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated by attitude or other- wise, as that their tendency to shorten them- selves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by posture, they would yet be found to ap- proach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. This tendency to contract has been distinguished by the term retractility, from its being manifested by the retraction that occurs when the belly of a mus- cle is cut across. But, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It has also been styled tonicity. The passive contraction of muscles continually opposes their elongation by the action of anta- gonists, and restores them when that action ceases. It is that which accommodates them to an attitude artificially given, when no mus- cular effort is required to maintain it. When no active contraction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains, and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep. The passive contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, without being attended by fatigue ; there seems no good rea- son for supposing it to be a property different from active contractility ; it is rather the neces- sary condition of that property, in its passive or unstimulated state. Passive contraction is a vital act, for it ceases with the rigor mortis. Active contraction.—This is the form of con- traction which is attended with those manifes- tations of power or force that specially charac- terize muscle. It is always excited by a sti- mulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less completely to master. The oppo- sing force is generally the passive contractility of antagonist muscles, but it may be the elasti- city of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contraction is partial in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaustion of the power which produces it, which exhaustion in the voluntary muscles is attended with the sensation termed muscular fatigue. 3. Of the differences between the minute movements of muscle in passive and active con- traction. In passive contraction.—It is, per- haps, impossible in the higher animals to ob- serve the nature of the microscopic movements occurring during the passive shortening of a muscle; but in the lower and smaller forms of life this may sometimes be accomplished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed be entirely of the passive kind, and consequently the movements here noticed are not worthy of implicit reliance. But it is more easy and quite as satisfactory to bring a muscle under inspec- tion, which is still in situ and in equilibrium with its antagonists ; in such, contractile force is still present, though its effects are neutralized. This may be done in various small animals; per- haps the tail of small fish or of the tadpole of the common frog is the best adapted for the purpose. In the latter, when deprived of its thick tegu- ment, I have succeeded in gaining such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite uni- form throughout, the transverse stripes being sta- tionary and equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected on d, priori grounds. The contraction being the effect of the passive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the tissue, would be equal in equal masses, and as the elementary fibres are of pre- cisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in ac- tion, as long as no special stimulus was applied. It may be concluded, therefore, that passive contraction is attended by a movement abso- lutely uniform throughout the whole mass of an elementary fibre or of a muscle. In active contraction.—The case is far other- wise in active contraction, as may now be con- sidered proved by a considerable body of evi- dence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction, being the answer to a stimulus, must be partial, at least at its com- mencement, since no stimulus can be applied at the same instant to every particle of a muscle. Certain features of the contractions witnessed in fragments removed from the body, and ex- amined in water under the microscope, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they engage others in the neighbourhood. The accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed explain these varieties. In the former case the fragments are free to move; their ends approach in proportion to the amount of con- traction, and as there is no force to extend them again when the contractile force ceases to be manifested in them, and advances to fresh parts-,