NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy ) 609 merous forms and degrees of organization. In the common Talitrus, an inferior genus, it consists of a regular series of ganglia, developed at an equal distance from each other, united by two distinctly separated longitudinal cords, from which are given off transverse nerves. 1 have found the same arrangement in the genus Oniscus, in which also a close analogy to the nervous system of the Annelides was apparent. In the Cymothoa, an animal a little higher in the scale, these longitudinal columns have become closely approximated, and the ganglia have coalesced transversely. Rising higher in the scale, we find a still greater degree of concen- tration and coalescence in the Decapoda, this being directed to two principal points—the thorax in the long-tailed Decapods, and the thorax and abdomen in the short-tailed ones. With regard to the former, I have examined the nervous system in the genera Crangon, Processa, and Pagurus, in all of which it pre- sented a similarity in developement. In the lengthened abdomen the longitudinal cords were very closely approximated, and the gan- glia developed were nearly of an equal size, and equidistant from each other; from them were given off transverse nerves. In the thorax, the ganglia were very closely approximated indeed, longitudinally, so as nearly to have the appearance of one nervous mass, from which were given off large transverse nerves to the neighbouring parts, and from the anterior part of which there passed off two long nervous cords, which encircled the oesophagus, and de- veloped a ganglion on its superior part. In the short-tailed Decapods, as in the common edible crab, the abdominal ganglia have co- alesced into one large nervous mass, from which radiate nerves to the legs, &c ; from its anterior part there pass two long filaments, connecting it with the coalesced ganglia in the thorax. There is a supra-cesophageal gan- glion, as in the preceding, but it is compara- tively small. 2. Myriapoda.—Amongst the Myriapoda, the next class, we find the nervous system again beginning by a low state of organization, similar to the lower Crustacea, this being prin- cipally characterized by a considerable number of ganglions. In the Scolopendra morsitans, the nervous system consists of a series of twenty-one double ganglia, situated on the ventral surface of the body, connected by in- tervening distinctly double longitudinal cords. From each ganglion are given off lateral nerves to supply the neighbouring muscles, viscera, and feet. Those ganglia are nearly all equal in size excepting the first, which is the largest, and from which are given off additional nerves to supply the maxillae, &c. Beyond this first sub-oesophageal ganglion, and from its anterior part, proceed the longitudinal connecting cords, which diverge to encircle the oesophagus, above which they meet and develope a bilobate supra- oesophageal ganglion. (See Myriapoda, (fig. 313.) [Mr. Newport's recent researches on the nervous system of Myriapoda favour the opinion that a distinct series of excitomotory VOL. III. fibres connected with the ganglia of the seg- ments (and not with the cerebral ganglion) exist in these animals. See the forthcoming volume of the Philosophical Transactions, 1843.] 3. Aruchnida.—In the Arachnida the ner- vous system is more concentrated, and the gan- glia are fewer; they may be considered, indeed, as intermediate in the developement of this sys- tem between the Insecta and Crustacea. In the Scorpions, according to Dr. Grant,* the gan- glia of the trunk have formed one large nervous mass, from which all the nerves of the legs and the surrounding parts take their rise as from a single ganglion." The cerebral ganglion is comparatively small, and, according to Cuvier and Carus,f the two nervous cords, proceeding thence, unite at intervals to form seven gan- glions, the last of which belongs to the tail. Grant observes,}; that the motor column is very loosely connected with the two inferior or sen- sitive columns, particularly in the region of the abdomen, and that this conformation is more obvious here than in any other of the Articu- lata. In Spiders, the nervous system consists, according to Professor Owen's description, of a brain, a bilobed ganglion which supplies the optic nerves, and also two large nerves to the mandibles. From it a short and thick collar, embracing the gullet, extends to a second very considerable stellate or radiated ganglion, si- tuate below the stomach upon the plastron. From this ganglion five principal nerves ate sent off on each side, " the first to the pedi- form maxillary palpi, the second to the more pediform labial palpi, which are usually longer than the rest of the legs, and used by many spiders rather as instruments of exploration than of locomotion ; the three posterior nerves supply the remaining legs, which answer to the thoracic legs of Hexapod Insects. The ner- vous axis is prolonged beyond this great gan- glion, as two distinct chords, into the beginning of the abdomen, where, in the Epira diadema, it divides into a kind of cauda equina; but in the Mygale a third ganglion of very small size is formed from which the nerves diverse to supply the teguments of the abdomen and its contents." * * * " The stomatogastric nerves are sent off from the posterior and lateral parts of the brain and form on each side a reticulate ganglion, which distributes filaments to the stomach.''§ 4. Insecta.—We have now to examine the last and highest class of articulated animals— the Insecta, in which we shall find the nervous system very highly organized, leading us by strict analogies to the Vertebrata. It consists, in almost everv order, of a ganglionic nervous cord, running along the abdominal surface, as in the preceding classes, and of a similar supra- oesophageal nervous mass, called by Cuvier the brain, from which are given off eight pairs of nerves and two single ones. This nervous cord consists of a varied number of ganglia, giving off lateral nervous filaments, and connected to * Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, t Op. cit. t Op. cit. § Owen's Lectures, by White, p. 255. 2 R