824 OSSEOUS I. (Comp. An at.) Fig. 433. Elements of a vertebra (after Owen). encrustment of bone as to resemble a single mass; and in both the Rays and Sharks there are many more laminae enclosing the spinal canal than there are bodies of vertebrae, bony plates being developed over the junctions of vertebral centres with each other as well as in the usual situation,—a circumstance which might at first sight seem to militate against the views adopted by modern physiologists concerning the elemental constitution of this part of the body, but from which, in reality, no legitimate inference is deducible, seeing the extremely confused and incomplete progress of ossification in all the cartilaginous Fishes. Advancing to the osseous Fishes, such con- fusion no longer exists, and every vertebra assumes a precise form corresponding with the particular uses assigned to it in the region which it occupies. Before, however, proceed- ing further, it behoves us to resolve an isolated vertebra into the primary elements of which it may itself be made up, and then we shall understand how all the varieties of shape pre- sented by these bones are easily obtainable by the simple exaggeration, diminution, or suppres- sion of some of the elements composing it. Geoffroy St. Hilaire was the first anatomist who pointed out the importance of thus analysing the different portions of the osseous system, and the views which were promulgated by that learned writer were generally adopted until Professor Owen, in the course of his researches concerning the composition of the skeletons of extinct British Reptiles, was led, as we think very justly, to modify considerably the views which had been previously entertained upon this subject; we cannot therefore do better than lay before the reader the conclusions deduced by Professor Owen from a very elaborate and exten- sive survey of the various forms of the skeleton. " A vertebra,'' says Professor Owen, " may be traced through its various degrees of com- plication, either during the progressive stages of its developement, or by taking permanently- formed vertebras of different grades of com- plexity in different animals; or in many instances by comparing the vertebrae in different parts of the spine in the same animal." The terminal vertebrae of the tail in most species exhibit the simplest condition of these bones. The most complicated vertebrae are those of the lower part of the neck of certain birds, as the Pelican, or at the beginning of the tail of a Python or other large Serpent. The parts or processes of such a vertebra may be divided into autogenous, or those which are independently developed in separate carti- lages, and exogenous, or those which shoot out as continuations from these independent con- stituents. The autogenous or true elements are— 1. The centrum or body of the vertebra (fig. 433, d,) which in Mammalia, as Cuvier has observed, is complicated by two epiphyses. 2. Two superior laminae {b, b) developed to protect the great nervous cord which rests on the upper surface of the centrum, and which Professor Owen therefore proposes to call Neurapophyses. 3. Two inferior laminae (e, e) developed generally to protect the great bloodvessels on the under surface of the centrum, and which may be called Hamapophyses. 4. The superior spinous process (a) which is connected and generally anchylosed with the distal extremities of the neurapophyses, and forms, in conjunction with those processes, the superior arch of the vertebra. 5th. An inferior spinous process which is connected and commonly anchylosed with the distal extremities of the Ha'mapophyscs, form- ing in conjunction with these a chevron or V-shaped bone. To the category of autogenous vertebral pieces likewise belong the ribs (cc), which are generally anchylosed to the other vertebral elements in the cervical, sacral, and caudal vertebrae of the warm-blooded Vertebrate classes. The propriety of regarding the ribs as verte- bral elements is well illustrated in the Plesio- saurus, in the cervical, sacral, and caudal vertebrae of which they have been generally described as transverse processes, although they are separate bones. True transverse processes are always exoge- nous, or mere projections from the centrum or the neurapophyses, and are of secondary impor- tance. They are of two kinds, superior and inferior ; both are present in the cervical ver- tebrae in most classes of the vertebrated animals; the inferior transverse processes alone are deve- loped in Fishes. The oblique or articulating processes are also exogenous, and may be developed either from the neurapophyses or the base of the superior spines of the vertebrae. As in other complicated bones resulting from