ORGANIC ANALYSIS. eoo its own bulk of carbonic acid at the observed temperature and pressure, we must in our cal- culations add the bulk of the liquid to that of the gas actually observed. Having reduced the bulk of gas to the standard pressure of 30 inches and the temperature of 60° F., accord- ing to the rules given in all works on physics, we deduce the quantity of sugar, since 100 cubic inches of carbonic acid are furnished by the decomposition of 106 6 grs. of grape sugar. If mercury be not at hand, we may, by adapting a tube containing chloride of cal- cium, and a bulb apparatus charged with strong solution of potash,* the weight of which is accurately known, to a tubulated retort, ob- tain a result of considerable accuracy. In a half-pint retort, so adjusted, 500 grs. of urine are placed, and 30 or 40 grs. of yeast added ; through the tubulure of the retort a straight tube passes, and dips below the surface of the fluid ; the upper extremity is closed by a cork. It is set aside to ferment at a temperature of 70°; the chloride of calcium retains the mois- ture, and the potash ley absorbs the carbonic acid; by the increase of weight we know the quantity of carbonic acid formed. As at the close of the experiment the apparatus will be full of carbonic acid, it must be displaced by re- moving the cork from the straight tube passing through the tubulure of the retort, and then gently drawing air through the apparatus for some minutes by careful suction at the extre- mity of the potash apparatus, in the manner to be described presently when treating of the process of ultimate analysis. 100 grs. of car- bonic acid indicate 225 grs. of diabetic sugar. Another method of ascertaining the quantity of sugar consists in adding to a given quantity of the fluid a known weight of yeast—having by experiment determined the quantity of fixed matter contained both in the yeast and in the fluid operated on. After fermentation is com- plete the solution is evaporated to dryness, and the loss of solid matter sustained indicates the quantity of sugar which has passed off as alcohol and carbonic acid ; the urea likewise is de- stroyed in the process, and its quantity must be deducted from the total loss. It is very desi- rable when sugar is present in considerable quantity that the evaporation to dryness should be performed in vacuo over sulphuric acid, as it is the only method that ensures our ob- taining the sugar always in the same state of hydration. This process, however, is tedious, always requiring many days for its completion : some comparative experiments, showing the value of this precaution, will be detailed here- after. Our methods of exactly determining the quantity of sugar of milk are imperfect; I shall describe the plan which answers best when treating of the analysis of milk. Uric acid.—This is one of the most inte- resting and important animal products from the * These pieces of apparatus will be described in detail in the directions for 'h&ia|^8W9§Hce of ulti- mate analysis. ■- ^S^Sjtej^* part it frequently performs in some of the most serious and distressing diseases to which we are liable. The method of detecting its presence by evaporation on glass with nitric acid has already been described. When no albuminous principles are present, the solution is evaporated to dryness and the residue treated with water, acidulated with hydrochloric acid; the inso- luble portion is dried and weighed, then burned; the weight of the remaining ash (silica), if any, is deducted ; the loss indicates the quantity of uric acid. Urobenzoic, or, as it is often called, hippuric. acid, has hitherto been found only in the urine, in which it generally exists in minute quantity, according to Liebig. Its quantity may be as- certained by adding hydrochloric acid to the liquid concentrated by evaporation. It is eva- porated to dryness by a water heat, and the residue digested with pure anhydrous ether as long as any thing is dissolved. By sponta- neous evaporation it is left behind nearly pure, and may be weighed ; traces of urea crystallize with it, and a little of the odorous principle, which obstinately adheres to it. If the ether have dissolved any fatty matter, the addition of boiling water will dissolve the acid and leave the fats. Urobenzoic acid may be detected by heating a crystal in a test tube; benzoic acid and benzoate of ammonia, and a few red drops of an oily matter, sublime, accompanied by a smell of bitter almonds and of the Tonka bean. Alcohol dissolves it freely, and the solution by evaporation leaves stellated groups of needle- shaped crystals. With perchloride of iron solutions of the urobenzoates furnish a cinna- mon brown precipitate. Lactic acid cannot be quantitatively deter- mined without difficulty. The best method is as follows:—The solution if acid is neu- tralized with ammonia, evaporated to dryness, and the residue exhausted with alcohol; to the filtered liquid sulphuric acid is added drop by drop as long as a precipitate ensues; the bases are thus removed as sulphates. The solu- tion is filtered and the precipitate washed with alcohol; the clear liquid is digested with fre- quent agitation, at a moderate heat, for twenty- four hours, with carbonate of lead: hydrochloric, sulphuric, and phosphoric acids are thus sepa- rated as insoluble salts, while lactate of lead dis- solves. The solution is a second time filtered, sulphuretted hydrogen gas transmitted through the clear liquid, and the sulphuret of lead sepa- rated by another filtration ; the filtered fluid is evaporated to dryness to expel the alcohol and ex- cess of gas, the residue redissolved in water and digested with carbonate of zinc ; by evaporation of the filtered liquid crystals of lactate of zinc are obtained. If the solution is now mixed with carbonate of potash in excess, evaporated to dryness, exhausted with boiling water and the residue dried and ignited, pure oxide of zinc is obtained: 100 grs. of this oxide indicate 202.5grs. of lactic acid. If oxalic acid be suspected in any liquid, it must be super-saturated with lime water. On treating the precipitate with acetic acid the phosphates dissolve, and oxalate of lime re-