402 MONOTREMATA. neum, opposite the middle of the abdomen, along the anterior margin of the suspensory ligament to the liver. It was reduced to a mere filamentary tube, filled with coagulum. From the same cicatrix the remains of the umbilical arteries extending downwards, and near the urinary bladder, were contained within a duplicature of peritoneum, having between them a small flattened oval vesicle, the re- mains of an allantois, which was attached by a contracted pedicle to the fundus of the bladder. As both the embryo of the Bird and that of the ovoviviparous Reptile have an allantois and umbilical vessels developed, no certain inference can be drawn from the above appear- ances as to the oviparous or viviparous na- ture of the generation of the Ornithorhynchus. But the structure of the ovary and that of the ovum, both before and after it has quitted the ovisac, afford the strongest analogical proof of the intra-uterine developement of the embryo, and at the same time accord with the ascer- tained fact of the mammary nourishment of the young animal. The kidneys were situated remote from the pelvis and high up in the lumbar region. The situation of the kidneys with respect to each other varied in the two specimens; in the larger one, the left was a little higher than the right; in the smaller one it was a little lower; the latter is the ordinary position in the adult. The supra-renal glands did not correspond with this arrangement, but in both instances the right was higher than the left, agreeing with the relative position of the testes in the male, and the ovaries in the female. In Man the large size of the supra-renal glands is noted as a foetal peculiarity, but in the Ornithorhynchus they are of minute size, their greatest diameter not exceeding one-eighth of a line in the smaller specimen here described; and they increase in size progressively with the growth of the ani- mal, and in a greater proportion than the kid- neys, which increase would appear, therefore, to have relation to the development of the ge- nerative organs. There were no traces of the corpora Wolffiana. The testes in the small male specimen were situated a little below the kidneys: they were of an elongated form, pointed at both ends, with the epididymis folded down, as it were, upon their anterior surface. In the female, the ova- ries were freely suspended to the loins in a similar position, the right being at this period as large as the left: it is the persistence of the latter at an early stage of development which occasions the disproportionate size of the two glands in the adult. The still greater inequa- lity of size in the oviducts of the Bird arises, as is well known, from a similar arrest of the development of the one on the right side, but both are equal at an early stage of existence. The uteri were straight linear tubes, scarcely exceeding the size of the ovarian ligaments. The lungs were found amply developed in both specimens; the air-cells remarkably ob- vious, so as to give a reticulate appearance to the surface, and a resemblance to the lungs of a turtle. They had evidently been permeated by air in the smaller specimen. The heart, in both specimens, was of the adult form, with the apex entire; but the left auricle was proportionately larger than in the adult heart. The ductus arteriosus was here very evident, and formed a filamentary chord in the usual situation between the aorta and pulmonary artery, but proportionately longer than in the true viviparous Mammalia. Here also we have the indication of a more prolonged foetal existence than in the marsupial animals, there being no trace of a ductus arteriosus either in the uterine or mammary foetus of the Kangaroo. The Ornithorhynchus also deviates from the ordinary Marsupialia in having the thymus gland. This is situated in front of the great vessels of the heart, and consists of two lobes, of which the right is the largest. The traces of foetal structures presented by these young Or- nithorhynchi, and especially the allantoic dila- tation of the urachus, indicate that the Mono- tremata differ from the Marsupialia in a longer continuance of the true foetal or intra-uterine existence. Mammary organs.—In this section will be adduced the evidence in proof of the essentially Mammalian nature of the Monotremes which the presence and ascertained function of the mammary glands have yielded. The most important result of Professor Mec- kel's anatomical investigations of the Ornitho- rhynchus was his discovery of the two large abdominal subcutaneous glands: these he con- cluded to be the mammary organs, which until that period had been supposed to be absent in the Ornithorhynchus. Subjoined is the figure which Meckel has given of one of these glands in its natural relative position, jig. 198. It measured four inches and a half in length, two inches in breadth, and half an inch in thickness. From this apparently conclusive evidence of the affinity of the Ornithorhynchus to the Mam- malia, Professor Meckel, however, is far from drawing conclusions as to the identity of their mode of generation. For assuming that the difference between the bringing forth of living young and of eggs is really very small and by no means of an essential nature, and remarking that birds have accidentally hatched the egg within the abdomen and so produced a living foetus,—an occurrence which has also been in- duced by direct experiment, and that, lastly^ the generation of the Marsupial animals is very similar to the oviparous mode, he deems it very probable that as the Ornithorhynchus ap- proaches still nearer than the Marsupial ani- mals to Birds and Reptiles, its mode of gene- ration may be in a proportionate degree analo- gous. For an animal possessing mammary glands he claims, however, the right to rank with the Mammalia, agreeing with Professor Geoffroy only so far as to consider the Mono- tremata as a distinct order of quadrupeds, which he places, as Cuvier has done, next to the Edentata. Against this conclusion, however, Professor