MOTION. 429 scent is performed with greater celerity by ele- vating the wings at an angle of nearly 45° above the plane of the horizon, (as in Jig.223,) by which Fig. 223. c c> the resistance of the air, compared with the re- sistance to the wing when horizontal, is dimi- nished in the ratio of radius to the cube of the sine of inclination, that is, as a b to d c3; con- sequently, a bird with its wings elevated at any angle to the horizontal plane will descend with greater velocity than when they are in the direc- tion of a b. We most frequently observe that Pigeons elevate their wings in this manner until they arrive within a foot or two of the ground, when, to prevent the shock they would otherwise receive, owing to the velocity ac- quired during their descent, they suddenly turn their axis perpendicular, which had previously been parallel, to the direction of their motion, and by a few rapid strokes of the wing neu- tralize their momentum, and thus reach the ground with ease and safety. In order to pro- duce lateral motion one wing oscillates more rapidly than the other, thereby causing the head to turn towards the side to which the latter wing is attached. The tail of the bird performs the office of a rudder in steering its course ; its plane being horizontal tends chiefly, as Borelli has demon- strated, to elevate and depress the head, rather than to turn the axis of the bird laterally. Let us, for instance, suppose that a bird, flying in the direction of its axis gj\ (jig. 224) elevates Fig. 224. its tail into the position b h parallel to o n, the resistance of the air will depress b towards k, and causing the bird to rotate on its centre of gravity c will elevate the head from a to- wards /; on the other hand, if the tail be de- pressed into the position b i, parallel to / k, by the resistance of the air, the point b will be raised towards n, and the head depressed to- wards o, consequently the direction of the bird in its mesial plane is regulated by the tail.* In the Grallatores the tail is short and its sur- face very small, and the function of a rudder is transferred to the legs, which are projected back- wards in flight, to counterbalance the depressing weight of their long extended neck and head This fact was noticed by Aristotle.f The Swal- lows, which are almost always upon the wing, economise their muscular action by giving a few strokes with their wings, and by keeping them expanded, scud through the air with great velo- city in chace of their prey; this interval of comparative repose must be of great service to them during their annual migrations across the sea to other countries. The velocity of some birds is very great. The Eider-duck is said to fly 90 miles in an hour, the Hawk 150. The great Albatross wafts itself across the Pacific Ocean apparently with untiring energy, owing to the vast muscular power with which it is endowed. Flight of fish and other animals.—Besides insects and birds, there are some other animals capable of sustaining themselves during a short period in the air by means of membranous ex- pansions or enlarged pectoral fins. The Dac- tilopterus and Exocatus, or flying fish, are en- abled to raise themselves above the surface of the water by the action of their enormous pec- toral fins ; but Mr. Bennett, who appears to have particularly observed their motions, states that he has never seen these fishes sustain themselves for a longer period than thirty se- conds, nor ever witnessed any vibration in their pectoral fins. Captain Basil Ilall estimates their longest flight at about two hundred yards, and they have been sometimes known to rise above the surface of the water as high as twenty feet. The projectile force with which they emerge from the water determines their elevation, and the expanded pectoral fins merely sustain them for a brief interval. The Draco Volans (Jig. 225) is provided with a broad disc on each side, extending from the fore to the hinder extremities. It is covered by the skin, supported by the first six false ribs, and directed horizontally. This membra- nous disc expands and closes like a fan, and is elevated and depressed like the wings of birds to break their fall in descending from trees, but notwithstanding the extent and mobility of their vvings, they are said to be incapable of raising themselves in the air, since their arms are detached, and neither enter into the compo- sition of the wings, nor assist in their elevation or depression. The area of the wings of the Draco volans (Jig. 225)1 estimated from the mesial section of the body is nearly 5'052 square inches. Ano- ther Draco volans which is preserved in spirits * See Borelli, De motu Animal, c. 22, p. 235. t See Taylor's Aristotle's Progressive Motion of Animals, c. x. p. 184. % In consequence of Ihe specimen in the collec- tion of Professor Grant, from which the annexed outline was made, being dry, its weight in the living state could not be ascertained.