759 (ESOPHAGUS. nerally exist in the human subject. The co- lour of the muscular fibres is pale red, less pale than those of the succeeding portions of the alimentary canal, and less deeply co- loured than those of the pharynx. A micro- scopic examination shews them to be com- posed of both striped and unstriped fibres, mingled to an uncertain extent. " In some specimens from the human subject we have failed in detecting any striped fibres in the lower half of the oesophagus, either in the circular or longitudinal layer; but in other examples we have found them to within an inch of the stomach."* Mucous membrane.—The mucous membrane of the oesophagus is of a pale colour; it pre- sents a number of longitudinal furrows, which are produced by a slight folding of the mem- brane during the partial contraction or ordi- nary tonicity of the circular muscular fibres: the apparent laxity of the mucous membrane is no more than sufficient to allow of the dila- tation of the canal which occurs during the process of deglutition. In addition to the longitudinal furrows there are some finer lines or wrinklings passing in various and indefinite directions, whicli are analogous to the fine grooved lines observed in the skin of various parts of the body. The mucous membrane is remarkable for its thickness; the epithelium is so abundant as to be distinctly visible to the naked eye ; it forms a thick layer similar to a cuticle, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach in a well-defined irregular fringed border. It is composed of the lamel- liform or scaly variety of epithelium.f The mucous membrane is connected with the sub- jacent muscular layer by the intervention of an abundant lax areolar tissue, which allows of a movement of these membranes upon each other during the repeated variations to which the diameter of the oesophagus is subject in the process of deglutition. (Esophagealglands.—In the submucous areo- lar tissue of the oesophagus are found a number of small glands. They may be felt through the mucous membrane, which they elevate here and there, as little circular or oval flattened granular bodies ; they are most numerous at the'lower extremity of the tube. Their struc- ture is the same as that of the buccal and duo- denal glands. From the duct, which opens on the free surface of the mucous membrane, a few ramifications proceed and become em- bedded in the submucous areolar tissue. The branches are short and sacculated, having the appearance of small vesicles collected on a common stalk. The epithelium lining these glands is of the spheroidal variety.]: Vessels and nerves.—The arteries distributed to the oesophagus are derived from several sources. In the neck they come from the in- ferior thyroid artery ; in the chest some come directly from the aorta, others from the inter- coslals, and occasionally some from the internal * Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, by Todd and Bowman. t Sec the article Mucous Membrane. 1 t Ibid. mammary arteries; in the abdomen, branches are derived from the coronaria ventriculi and from the phrenic arteries. The veins corre- sponding to these arteries empty themselves into the inferior thyroid, the superior cava, the azygos, internal mammary, coronaria ventriculi, and phrenic veins. The lymphatics open into the glands which surround the oesophagus in considerable numbers. The nerves are derived chiefly from the pneumo-gastric. The recur- rent branch of the pneumo-gastric in its course upwards sends numerous filaments to the oeso- phagus. In the chest, as the trunks of the pneumo-gastric nerves lie on the oesophagus, each one sends off filaments which pass backwards, encircling the tube, and meeting with branches from the opposite nerve. The plexus thus formed is called the plexus guise ; it is joined by some filaments from the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic. Function.—The office of the oesophagus is to receive the aliment from the pharynx and to convey it into the stomach. This, the third and last stage of the process of deglutition, is un- attended by sensation and uninfluenced by vo- lition. The following is the mode in which the food is transmitted along the oesophagus. After being duly masticated and moistened in the mouth, it is received into the pharynx, and is thence propelled into the upper orifice of the oesophagus. The muscular fibres, both cir- cular and longitudinal, of that part of the tube into which the food is propelled are at once stimulated to contract; the mass is conse- quently pushed onwards into the relaxed por- tion of the tube immediately succeeding; the stimulus of contact with this part produces the same effect upon it as has already been pro- duced upon that part of the tube which the food has just quitted, and the contraction of the first portion continuing at the time when that of the second portion is taking place, the substance is necessarily propelled onwards: it thus comes into contact with successive portions of the tube, and in each successive portion the same effect is produced, the contact of the sub- stance exciting contraction, and the remaining contraction of the part which it has just quitted preventing regurgitation. These phenomena occur in a much less space of time than is occupied in their description, and the food is rapidly transmitted along the entire length of the canal. A notion may be formed of the rapidity with which these contractions are trans- nutted along the oesophagus by observing the rapid vibrating movements in the neck of a horse while drinking. The secretion constantly poured out by the oesophageal glands has the effect of moistening and lubricating the interior of the tube, and thereby of facilitating the transmission of solid portions of foed. The contractions of the oesophagus, which ordinarily commence at its pharyngeal and terminate at its cardiac extremity, sometimes take place in a reverse order, the direction of the movement depending on the part to which the stimulus is first applied. Dyspeptic persons are not un- commonly troubled with eructations of a liquid from the stomach, giving rise to what is fami-