768 OPTIC NERVES. The evidence which pathology has afforded upon this question must be considered unsa- tisfactory in the extreme; for, on the one hand, well authenticated cases are recorded in which vision remained perfect although the optic thalamus was extensively diseased, and Gall and Spurzheim have observed atrophy of the optic nerves to reach the nates without affecting the optic thalamus: while, on the other, Cru- veilhier has seen the corpus geniculatum ex- ternum involved in the wasting of the optic nerve, and Magendie and Desmoulins, from their own researches and experiments as well as from those of Ncethig and Scemmerring, infer that after long-continued blindness the atrophy of the optic nerve in man sometimes affects the optic thalamus. The following is a summary of facts favour- able to the supposition that the optic nerves in man derive roots from the optic thalami. 1. The human tractus opticus admits of being distinctly traced to the optic thalamus, both in the foetal condition and subsequently to birth. 2. In many, if not all, of the mammalia, the optic nerves in the clearest manner derive roots from the optic thalami. 3. The optic nerve of the chick first appears as an offset from the third ventricle, and the optic thalami are developed in the walls of that ventricle. 4. The inverse proportion known to subsist between the tubercula quadrigemina and the optic thalami in mammalia, and also between the optic lobes and the optic thalami in birds, reptiles, and fish, may probably be considered corroborative facts. Corpora geniculata: their relation to the optic nerves. That there is an intimate physiological rela- tion between the optic nerves and the corpora geniculata can scarcely admit of doubt, for the principal band of the human tractus opticus is, in every instance, traceable to the corpus geniculatum externum, and may be seen actually incorporated with that tubercle; and a similar connection between the lesser band of the tractus and the corpus geniculatum internum is also, for the most part, discoverable : more- over, in various orders of the mammalia a portion of the tractus opticus emanates most distinctly from the corpus geniculatum in- ternum ; and in quadrumana, carnivora,rodentia, &c, this has been frequently verified by the writer. Fromthestatementsof Tiedemann, it appears that the corpus geniculatum externum is much more tardy of developement in the foetus than the optic nerve itself, for the eminence in ques- tion becomes only for the first time apparent about the sixth month of fetal life: again Serres affirms that both corpora geniculata appear so late as the sixth month of uterine existence; and according to the joint testimony of these two authorities, the corpora geniculata are de- veloped in the course of the tractus opticus, and superadded to the rudimental optic nerve. The late appearance of the corpora geniculata in the embryo,and the manner of their develope- ment, would seem to assimilate these tubercles to the ganglions found in the course of certain nerves of special sense in many animals, and which are perhaps destined to exalt the sensi- bility of the nerves in which they occur. The optic ganglions of the loligo (fig. 424, c), and the olfactory ganglions of many fishes, afford good examples of the nervous masses to which allusion is here made. Tuber cinereum : its relation to the optic nerves. The same difficulties uniformly encountered in all attempts to determine the particular functions of individual parts of the brain pre- vail in the case of the tuber cinereum : some physiologists maintained that the optic nerves derive a great number of filaments from that body, and that the nerves are considerably in- creased in dimensions by this addition : Gall, for instance, was of this opinion, and gave a rather exaggerated representation of the enlarge- ment supposed to arise out of this reinforcement to the nerves. The optic nerves in man may doubtless draw some of their roots from the tuber cine- reum, but there is an absolute certainty that the body in question has other and probably more important functions than any connected with the origin of the nerves of vision. Pathological and experimental observations upon the subject are still a desideratum, but in the absence of more direct evidence the anatomy of the mole's brain is calculated to throw some light upon the enquiry. In the mole the optic nerve is either wholly absent, or if present, it is merely rudimental; nevertheless, the tuber cinereum is of enormous dimensions; it extends forwards to the olfactory lobes, and so far backwards as nearly to reach the pons. In this animal, there- fore, there is an inverse proportion apparent between the optic nerve and tuber cinereum, a fact little favourable to the hypothesis advo- cated by Gall. Of the chiasma of the optic nerves.—The word chiasma (from the Greek ^ia<7-f<.o?, decus- satio,) means in strictness a decussation, or crossing at acute angles, like the legs of the letter X;* and, for convenience-sake, the same expression (with a like latitude of application) will be here employed to designate the cor- responding structure in the lower animals. The organization of the human chiasma has abundantly exercised the ingenuity of anato- mists, who seem to have encountered great difficulty in their attempts to trace the nervous filaments through it; and consequently, not- withstanding all the attention bestowed upon the subject, opinions the most conflicting have prevailed upon the true nature of the structure in question. In no other instance is a similar junction between two corresponding nerves of opposite sides known to occur. Such an anomaly affords strong presumptive evidence of the existence of some unusual properties in the * In Human Anatomy the term is used (without perhaps sufficient regard to its etymology) to ex- press the nervous mass in which the two optic nerves are conjoined.