470 MOTION. Fig. 260. vertical line, not only the time of swinging the leg has increased, but also the time in which both legs are resting on the earth; for the latter commences at the instant when the forward leg has reached the ground, and termi- nates when the head of the femur has arrived at the vertical line, passing through the point of support of the same foot. The time aug- ments in proportion to the distance which the swinging leg passes beyond the vertical posi- tion, or half oscillation. The time when both legs are resting is greatest in fig. 260, because it must be sufficiently great for the head of the femur, together with the whole trunk, to advance to a position directly over the foot, during which the head of the femur moves very slowly, and by the direction of the for- ward leg its action is to retaid the horizontal advance of the centre of gravity. The time is less in fig. 259, because the head of the femur has to pass through a less space, and the sup- porting leg acts against the trunk at a less angle; but in Jig. 258 the time of both legs resting at the same time, disappears altogether. The two legs complete the least portion possi- ble of the vibrating curve, and the duration of each step amounts only to the time of half an oscillation. In walking very slowly we may suffer the swinging leg to vibrate so long, that it partly returns to its former position before it reaches the ground. We have seen in quick walking that during the time both legs rest on the ground, the ad- vanced leg continually forms a smaller angle with the vertical than the hinder leg; but in very slow walking the forward leg may form a greater angle with the vertical than the hinder le^; the magnitude of this angle determines the kind of gait the walker acquires. In order to accomplish this, the swinging leg is suffered nearly to complete its curve of oscillation be- fore it is placed on the ground, and during this time the centre of gravity moves so little, that half the length of the step may not be at once described, and the entire duration of the step will be about four times greater than in the quickest pace.* In this case the forward leg really makes a greater angle than the hinder as it reaches the ground, but during the time that both legs are on the ground, the angle of the forward leg diminishes, whilst that of the hinder leg augments, and there is an instant when both legs form equal angles. When the angle of the forward leg becomes zero, or in other words, when it is directed vertically, the hinder leg rises from the earth; for example, in Jig. 261, where a c represents the right leg, be the left, in the beginning of a step, or the instant the foot a is raised from the ground; c d" is the magni- tude of the step, or the space which the centre of gravity passes through in the time of a step, c" being the centre of that space. Now, if the foot a, which was raised at the begin- ning of the step, were placed again on the ground at a', at the instant when the centre of gravity reaches the middle point c", then both legs would form equal angles with the vertical; or, the angle b c" a. = a c" a., in which c" a. is the vertical through c" ; but if the angle of the hinder leg to the vertical be less, when the right leg is set down in a', the centre of gravity will not have arrived at the middle point c", but at c'; however, whilst both legs are on the ground, the centre of gravity is pro- pelled from c'to c", after which the angle b c' ot increases and the angle a' c" a diminishes (where c' a is the vertical through c'); when the centre of gravity is propelled onwards from c'' to c'", the angle a c" a. is less than b c" «, until the termination of the step. In this slow method of walking a very mea- sured pace results, in which the body is carried very erect, and remains for a considerable time in the rear of the forward leg after it first reaches the earth; consequently the duration of the step will be very considerable, nearly one se- cond and a half, the length of the step very short, and the velocity of the centre of gravity, which is very little at the middle of the step, varies considerably during each step, so that there is an instant in which the body is nearly at rest. This is denominated by Weber the grave or procession step.-] A remarkable difference may be observed in the duration of the steps of two different per- sons, one of whom has long and the other short legs. In quickest walking the duration of * That is, where T represents the entire duration of an oscillation of the leg, the time of a step in the quickest to that in the slowest walking will be as JTto2T, or four times that of quickest walking. t Vide Weber, loc. cit. sect. 139, p. 344.