NUTRITION. 754 words, when the quantity of fibrin in the cir- culating part is much increased,—local inflam- mations will be excited by very trifling causes (at other times quite inoperative), which are followed by the same results as the original one. But it frequently happens that the fibrinous element of the blood, though increased in quantity, does not possess its normal plasticity ; and the deposits which are the consequence of its effusion are far from being as organizable as in the preceding case, and are either im- perfectly organizable, or caco-plastic, or alto- gether unorganizable or aplastic. The tendency to such deposits may arise from various causes. Thus, when the inflammation is from the first of a low or asthenic character, or when the blood is previously in an unhealthy condition (as, for instance, when there is a deficiency in the number of red particles, the presence of the normal amount of which seems important to the complete elaboration of the fibrin), no other kind of deposit takes place from the first; and even when organizable plasma has been co- piously thrown out in the first instance, it is not unfrequently succeeded by caco-plastic, or aplastic products,—either from a change in the character of the inflammatory process itself,—or because the late products are thrown out in such a position as to be cut off from that influ- ence of living surfaces around, which is neces- sary to their complete organization. Between the organizable or euplastic, and the caco-plastic, and aplastic deposits, the gradations are almost insensible. The cells and fibres which are characteristic of the first diminish in number and are less perfectly formed; and they are replaced by a granularamorphous matter, which possesses but little cohesion, and which, being totally incapable of entering into any form of tissue, acts as a foreign body, and becomes a source of irritation. The limited space allotted to this subject prevents any more particular description of these products from being here given; but there is one which must not be overlooked, since its occurrence is very fre- quent, its effects upon the system most im- portant, and its character very peculiar. The product alluded to is pus. This is characterized by the presence of a number of cells of a pe- culiar aspect, having a very tuberculated or mulberry surface, which are seen floating in a fluid, termed liquor pur is, which is of an albu- minous or low fibrinous character, being entirely destitute of organizability. Now the production of pus in an inflamed part, or in other words, the act of suppuration, may be due to one of three causes, viz.,—the intensity of the inflammation ; the presence of air, which becomes a source of irritation ; and a previously vitiated state of the blood. Various attempts have been made to show that the pus-globule is a degenerated red or white corpuscle of the blood ; but it seems more probable, however, that it does not escape from the vessels as a complete cell, but as a cell-germ, which may have had its origin in a white corpuscle of the blood; and which, under favourable circum- stances," might have produced an exudation- corpuscle. At any rate, it must be regarded as a degenerated form of cell; and the liquor puris must be considered as analogous to the plasma of the blood in a degenerated state.* In what manner the inflammatory process determines the formation of the pus cell, and the consequent degradation of the product, we are at present unable to state; but that the degree of irritation in the part has an influence upon it is evident from the effects of the contact of air upon inflamed surfaces, causing those elements to take the form of pus, which would otherwise have been thrown out as a plastic deposit. This circumstance would seem to indicate, beyond all doubt, that the exudation and pus-corpuscles, the plastic lymph, and the aplastic liquor puris have the same origin, but that their character is determined by local cir- cumstances. There is great reason to believe, that when pus is introduced into the blood, it may induce such a change in the character of the fluid, as speedily to impair its vital proper- ties ; so that the pus-corpuscles will rapidly propagate themselves in the blood, and the plasticity of the liquor sanguinis will be dimi- nished. In this manner the whole system will be seriously affected, and there will be a tend- ency to deposits of pus in various organs— especially those which, like the lungs and liver, serve as emunctories to the system —without any previous inflammatory changes in these parts. The last form of disordered nutrition which we shall consider is that which takes place in the tuberculous diathesis, and which is marked by the deposition of tubercular matter, in place of the normal elements of tissue, both in the ordinary process of nutrition, and still more when inflammation is set up. From an exami- nation of the blood of tuberculous subjects it appears that the fibrinous element is not defi- cient in amount, but that it is not duly elaborated, so that the coagulum is loose, and the red cor- puscles are found to bear an abnormally low proportion to it. We can understand, therefore, that such a constant deficiency in plasticity must affect the ordinary nutritive process; and that there will be a liability to the deposit of caco-plastic products, without inflammation, instead of the normal elements of tissue. Such appears to be the history of the formation of tubercles in the lungs and other organs, when it occurs as a kind of metamorphosis of the ordinary nutritive process; and in this manner it may proceed insidiously for a long period, so that a large part of the tissue of the lungs shall be replaced by an amorphous deposit, without any other ostensible sign than an increasing * It would not seem improbable that the liquor puris is the product of the action of the pus-cor- puscle, in the same manner as we have endeavoured to show that the liquor sanguinis is the result of the elaborating action of the colourless corpuscles of the blood. This idea seems confirmed by the obser- vation of Mr. Gulliver, that the pyogenic membrane which lines the cavity of an abscess, and from which the fluid appears to be secreted, is chiefly composed of cells that bear a strong resemblance, on the one hand to the pus-corpuscles, and on the other to the colourless corpuscles of the blood; these cells are held together by fibrinous fibrils.