742 NUTRITION. tion is required, for the maintenance of their normal texture and properties; but its amount will vary, according to the demand created by previous activity, and the conse- quent decay. The materials required for the nutrition of the tissues of the animal body seem to be sup- plied, for the most part at least, in forms pos- sessing a similar chemical composition, by the vegetable kingdom. It will be presently shown that albumen may be regarded as the pabulum, at the expense of which all the organised tex- tures (properly so called) of the animal fabric maybe constructed. The really-organised part of this fabric, indeed, appears seldom to de- part widely from the protein type of composi- tion. Thus in fat, the non-azotized matter is contained within cells, whose walls are com- posed of a protein principle ; and in the ner- vous tissue, it is probable that the walls of the cells and tubes are composed of an albuminous compound, though their interior is occupied by a substance of a character much more nearly approaching that of fat. Even with respect to the gelatinous tissues, as they are termed, there is much doubt to what extent they con- tain gelatin in their normal state; for where this can only be extracted from them by long boiling, it is not improbable that an actual con- version takes place; since we know that pure fibrin may be converted, by long boiling, (which occasions the liberation of ammonia,) into a compound resembling gelatin in many respects. And in those which are most purely gelatinous, it is doubtful how far the gelatin is itself organized. The writer has lately ex- amined the sound of a cod with great care, both before and after the action of hot water upon it, and is satisfied that the gelatinous portion of it exhibits nothing that can be properly called organization—the only distinct appear- ances of fibres, cells, &c, being presented by portions which were left undissolved by the hot water, and which were, therefore, to be regarded as more allied to albumen than to gelatin in their composition. Similar remarks may be made in regard to the horny substance depo- sited in certain tissues; and it may probably be stated as a general theorem, that whilst in the plant, the materials which it derives from the elements around are combined and elabo- rated into non-azotized compounds for the pro- duction of organized tissue, and into azotized products for deposition in its cavities, these last alone form the materials of the animal or- ganism, any non-azotized substances contained in it being inorganic in their condition. In considering the various stages of the nu- tritive process in animals, we shall do well to bear constantly in mind the leading facts in re- gard to the same process in the simplest cellu- lar plant: for we shall find that the elementary parts of the most complex animal organism go through a series of changes essentially the same; so that the type of the function is everywhere uniform, notwithstanding the vast apparent dif- ferences in the mode in which it is performed. The cell of the red snow or yeast plant, for instance, is developed from an almost imper- ceptible germ, by its own power of attracting to itself certain nutritive materials in its neigh- bourhood, which it combines into the new forms required both for its own growth and in- crease, for the elaboration of certain peculiar matters contained in its cavity, and for the pro- duction of the germs of new cells; and these, being liberated in time by the death of their parent, go through, in their turn, the same series of changes. We shall now trace these changes in the highest and most complex form in which they are presented to us;—that is, as they oc- cur in man, or any vertebrated animal. Elaboration of organizable materials.—The alimentary substances taken in by the absorbent vessels require to undergo very important changes within the body, before they can be applied to the nutrition of its structure. The chief constituents of the chyle, as at first ab- sorbed, are albumen and fat; the former is destined to be converted into the material of the solid tissues ; the latter is chiefly designed for the maintenance of the animal temperature, by the combination it is made to undergo with the oxygen introduced through the lungs. It is questionable, as already explained, whether fatty matter, or any other non-azotized com- pound, can ever be applied to the nutrition of the animal body. Even if it should be ever proved to be subservient to the re-construction of the azotized tissues, there can be no doubt that it must have been first converted into an albuminous compound—that is, into some mo- dification of protein ; and as the evidence that such a transformation ever takes place is far from being satisfactory, we have as yet no data for examining the mode in which it is effected. We shall, therefore, consider albumen as the starting-point of the animal tissues, and shall endeavour to trace, so far as the present state of our knowledge admits, the processes by which this is converted into the organized fabric. In this assumption we seein justified by two very obvious considerations. First, in the egg of a bird, (or any other oviparous animal,) we find that, putting aside the fatty matter of the yolk, albumen is the sole organic compound, at the expense of which all its tissues are to be formed ; so that, by the wonderful processes of chemical and vital transformation, which take place during the period of incubation, the al- bumen which it contained at first is meta- morphosed into bone, cartilage, nerve, muscle, tendon, ligament, membrane, areolar tissue, gelatinous matter, horny substance, feathers, &c.,&c. Secondly, a similar metamorphosis appears to be continually taking place in the body of the adult animal; for every protein compound employed as food appears to be re- duced to the form of albumen in the digestive process ; so that this becomes the essential con- stituent of whatever fluid is absorbed for the nutrition of the tissues. It is true that gelatin, taken in as food, may be absorbed and carried into the current of the circulation ; but there is no doubt that it is altogether incapable of being applied to the re-construction of any but the gelatinous tissues; and, as already stated, it seems questionable whether, even in these, it