804 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. before, separating it thirs into a solution (A), and an insoluble residue (B). (A.) Potash.—The solution rarely contains any but the alkaline salts. If, however, any of the earths are present, they must first be separated in the form of carbonates, by adding a mix- ture of carbonate and caustic ammonia; the filtered liquid is evaporated to dryness, the residue ignited to expel ammoniacal com- pounds and re-dissolved in water, which then contains only salts of potash and soda. If sulphuric or phosphoric acids be present, it is necessary for a quantitative determination of each alkali to convert the mixed sulphates or phosphates into chlorides. The method for accomplishing this object is rather circuitous : chloride of barium in slight excess is added to the solution, which is filtered from the sulphate or phosphate of baryta that then precipitates; the filtered liquid is heated with a mixture of caustic and carbonate of ammonia, ajjain fil- tered, evaporated to dryness, and ignited ; the bases are thus obtained in their desired con- dition of chlorides; they are then carefully weighed, re-dissolved in a small quantity of water; bichloride of platinum in solution is added, and the whole evaporated to dryness on a water-bath. The dry residue is digested with rectified spirit, and the washing continued as long as the liquid passes coloured through the filter; the precipitate, consisting of anhydrous double chloride of platinum and potassium, is dried and weighed; 100 grs. indicate 19.43 of potash. Soda.—After the potash has been determined, the corresponding quantity of chloride of pot- assium is deducted from the weight of the mixed chlorides, and the deficiency inferred to be chlo- ride of sodium; 100 grs. of chloride of sodium correspond to 53.33 of the anhydrous alkali. The platino-chloride of sodiunt, which the alcoholic solution contains, crystallizes in bold, well defined, flattened prisms readily soluble in water. Ammonia, when present in organic fluids, cannot be quantitatively determined with ac- curacy. Its presence is easily recognized by the characteristic pungent fumes which are given off when the residue of evaporation is mixed with caustic potash and gently warmed. (B.) Iron.-—The precipitate by carbonate and caustic ammonia from A and the insoluble re- sidue B are dissolved in hydrochloric acid. When no phosphates are present, the acid solution is nearly neutralized by caustic am- monia; then an excess of hydro-sulphuret of ammonia added; the iron falls as a black sul- phuret. This is collected on a filter, washed, re-dissolved in hot hydrochloric acid, and the iron thrown down as sesquioxide by ammonia in excess. It is thus completely separated from lime and magnesia.* * In the rare instances in which alumina presents itself in the animal fluids, this earth would pre- cipitate along with the sulphuret of iron, and would again be thrown down with the sesquioxide. It is however easily separated by digesting the oxide while still moist in a solution of caustic potash ; the oxide of iron alone remains behind. To sepa- rate alumina from the alkaline liquid, it is feebly If the earthy phosphates are present in mix- ture with iron, the process already described, when speaking of phosphoric acid, must be employed. Lime.—The acetic solution of the phos- phates filtered from the iron, or if no iron be present, the acid solution supersaturated with ammonia and the precipitate re-dissolved in acetic acid, (a precaution indispensable, as oxalate of lime is soluble in nitric or hydro- chloric acids,) is treated with solution of ox- alate of ammonia in excess. Awhite precipitate of oxalate of lime falls; it is allowed to stand some hours in a warm place (the liquid would otherwise pass turbid through the filter), sepa- rated by filtration, ignited, and then moistened with a saturated solution of carbonate of am- monia, after which it is thoroughly dried at a temperature short of redness. Carbonate of lime is thus obtained; 100 grs. contain 56 of pure lime. Magnesia.—The filtered liquid is super- saturated with ammonia, well agitated, and al- lowed to stand for some hours; if any mag- nesia be present, it separates as a crystalline precipitate, which must be washed with a weak solution of phosphate of ammonia; it is dried and ignited; the residue contains 35.71 of magnesia in every 100 grs. Our ordinary analysis terminates here. Lead is sometimes found as a morbid con- stituent of certain parts, more particularly of the soft solids; the fluid or part to be examined is dried and incinerated, (if bulky, in a clean earthen crucible,) and the charcoal burned off as far as may be; the residue is digested in nitric acid diluted with thrice its bulk of water, filtered, nearly neutralized by ammonia, and a current of sulphuretted hydrogen transmitted through the liquid. The gas is easily gene- rated for this purpose by adapting to a com- mon phial a glass tube bent twice at right angles, one limb being considerably longer than the other; the short limb passes air-tight through the cork of the phial, and the other plunges nearly to the bottom of the liquid to be examined. In the phial 100 or 200 grs. of coaisely bruised proto-sulphuret of iron are placed, and an ounce or two of dilute sulphuric acid (1 of acid and 5 or 6 of water); abundant effervescence arises from the dis- engagement of the sulphuretted hydrogen. If lead be present in the tested liquid, a brown or black precipitate of sulphuret of lead falls, and the liquid becomes milky from the partial decomposition of the gas; when it smells strongly of the sulphuretted hydrogen, the liquid is filtered, the precipitate is treated with nitric acid, to which a few drops of sulphuric acid have been added, and the whole ignited ; a white residue of sulphate of lead is obtained, which contains 68.42 per cent, of metallic lead. Sulphate of lead is insoluble in acetic acid, but is completely dissolved by a strong solution of acetate of ammonia. supersaturated with hydrochloric acid, and again rendered slightly alkaline by ammonia; the alumina precipitates, is collected on a lilter, thoroughly washed, ignited, and weighed.