1007 PISCES. Viscera of the Herring (Clupea harengus). a, oesophagus ; b, c, stomach ; d, pyloric coeca ; e, intestine ; /, anus ; g, spleen ; h, h, ovary ; i, ovi- k, air-bladder. Blenny. In cases such as these it is evident that impregnation must occur internally, and accordingly a kind of copulation must be presumed to be effected. Yet, even in these Fishes no very obvious peculiarity is to be de- tected in the structure either of the male or female organs; neither is the male better pro- vided with an intromittent apparatus than the ordinary oviparous genera. The Syngnathidte, or pipe-fishes, offer a very peculiar conformation, which is not inaptly comparable to what is met with among the mar- supial Mammalia, namely, a pouch wherein the ova are carried about until after they are hatched, and in which the young are defended during the earliest period of their growth. In the plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes the arrangement of the generative apparatus of both sexes is of a very different character, approxi- mating that type of structure which is common to the Reptilia and Birds. In the male Shark (Squalus acanthias), which may be taken as an example of the group, the anatomy of these parts is as follows. The testes, two in number, (for the minute structure of which the reader is referred to our preceding article Generation, organs of, Comp. Anat.) are situated at the anterior part of the abdomen, on each side of the mesial line, (Jig. 537, k,) where they are at- tached by their inner margins to a duplicature of the peritoneum, which connects them with the region of the spine. The vasa deferentia derived from each of these glands are long and tortuous tubes (1,1,), increasing in size as they pass backwards towards the cloaca, into which they open by an orifice common to them and to the ureters upon a kind of papillary eminence (o), which is here in truth a rudimentary penis adapted to facilitate the impregnation of the female which takes place internally. The openings communicating between the cloaca and the cavity of the peritoneum (fig. 537, p, p,) are situated a little lower down beneath a kind of valvular fold formed by the termination of the rectum. In the vicinity of the cloaca] aperture are situated the claspers, or holders, (q, q,) so called because they are generally supposed to be used for clasping or holding the female during the sexual intercourse necessary for internal impregna'ion, although some authors have imagined them rather to perform the office of an intromittent organ by being actually in- ducts ovarian capsule arises a short canal i, i, and these two ducts uniting form a common tube, through which the ova pass out of the body through an aperture,,/, situated immediately behind the anus. In the male the disposition of the genera- tive organs is precisely similar, the membrane contained in the two capsules secreting milt instead of spawn, which when expelled through the efferent duct and thus mixed with the water in the vicinity of the ova of the female, pre- viously deposited, impregnates them by asper- sion. Instances are recorded by Cavolini and others of a remarkable kind of hermaphrodism occasionally met with in Fishes presenting this type of structure, in which, while the generative capsule upon one side of the body contained a roe-secreting membrane, that of the other fur- nished milt, so that one half of the fish was male and the other female; such an arrange- ment, however, can only be looked upon as a lusus naturae, although regarded by some of the older naturalists as a normal occurrence. Among the Salmonidse a very interesting ar- rangement of the generative apparatus is met with, which would seem to offer an intermediate condition between that of the Lamprey and that of the ordinary osseous Fishes. In the Trout and Salmon for instance, the extensive folds of the ovarian membrane are only partially en- closed in an investing capsule, the interior of which communicates by means of a wide slit with the abdominal cavity. In the common Salmon (Salmo Salar, Linn.) the ovary is much reduced in its relative size when compared with that of the Lamprey or of the Eel, although the ova are still developed in the folds of an irregu- larly transversely plaited membrane. These folds and their contained ova are, however, en- veloped on their posterior and lateral aspects by a thin capsule, which is wanting on their ante- rior surface. Through this anterior opening in the capsule the ova are discharged into the cavity of the abdomen, whence they are finally expelled through the peritoneal apertures situated near the anus, as in the Lamprey. Notwithstanding that the great majority of the osseous Fishes shed their spawn to be im- pregnated out of the body, some rare instances are met with in which the females are vivipa- rous, producing their offspring not only already hatched, but even considerably advanced in growth. Such, for example, is the Viviparous