OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comiv Anat.) 844 toes are more or less numerous. In their most normal state of developement these bones are five in number as in the human skeleton, but from this variations occur in almost every order of Vertebrata. The metatarsus of Reptiles is, however, well developed, consisting of a series of moderately elongated bones extended between the carpus and the proximal phalanx of the corresponding toe, but offering nothing worthy of special comment. The tarso-metatarsal bone of Birds, repre- senting both the tarsal and metatarsal portions of the skeleton, seems to consist of thiee and sometimes four metatarsal bones consolidated into one piece. These are distinguishable m- feriorly by the four trochlear surfaces that sup- port the moveable toes ; while the presence of an ossified spur in some gallinaceous birds, regarded by many anatomists as the rudiment of a fifth toe, might indicate the existence of a fifth metatarsal element lost in the general consolidation of these pieces. In all the unguiculate Mammals the meta- tarsal bones hold the same relations with the other bones of the foot as in the skeleton of Man, and need no special notice; but in the Ungulate families their appearance and arrange- ment are necessarily much changed. In the Solipeds and Ruminants the metatarsal division of the extremity is so much elongated as to constitute a very considerable portion of the, limb. It is principally made up of a single piece generally called the " canon bone," which in reality consists of two enormous meta- tarsal bones consolidated into one, being fused together in the central line along their whole length, although the real composition of the canon bone is always distinguishable both on account of a deep furrow which indicates the union of the two pieces, and from the con- dition of the two widely separated trochlear surfaces at its distal extremity. Besides the two largely developed pieces forming the canon bone, two other metatarsal pieces assist in form- ing the foot of a Ruminating Quadruped ; these sustain the supplementary toes developed in a rudimental condition on the outer and inner aspects of the member. The digital phalanges of the posterior ex- tremity are among the most variable elements of the skeleton, being, like those of the anterior, made subservient to a great variety of uses both in terrestrial and aquatic forms of Vertebrata. In the osseous Fishes they are represented by the fine rays of the ventral fin, and are of course employed in natation ; but in the carti- laginous Fishes, as the Sharks and Rays, although the resemblance between this part of the skeleton and the feet of higher animals is more striking than in the osseous races, they are appropriated to a different office, serving the purpose of claspers, whereby the intercourse between the sexes is facilitated. Throughout all the Reptilia that possess hind feet, the phalanges of the toes offer nothing remarkable; neither in Birds is there anything peculiar in their structure, the only circumstances of interest connected with this part of the skeleton in the feathered races relating to the number and disposition of the toes, and the presence of more or less numerous joints entering into their composition. In the Mammalia this part of the foot cor- responds in its composition with that of the hand, and therefore need not be further noticed. In enumerating the elements of the endo- skeleton it would be improper to omit certain supplementary pieces, which, though not strictly belonging to the osseous system, areof important mechanical assistance to the muscles inserted into different portions of the skeleton. These are developed in the substance of various tendons where much friction is encountered, or where it is of importance to remove the line of traction to some distance from the centre of motion in order to gain additional leverage. When developed in the tendons of the fingers or toes, these detached pieces of osseous sub- stance are called " sesamoid bones," but in such situations their existence is by no means constant. Connected with the great joints corresponding with the knee and elbow of the human subject, bones of this kind are very generally developed, and their size and im- portance renders them worthy of special remark. In the anterior extremity the superadded bones are named " olecranon," and very generally are found solidly cemented to the proximal end of the ulna, forming a prominent process, thatgives great mechanical advantage to the extensor muscles of the forearm. The corresponding bone appended to the knee-joint has, from its condition in the human subject, received the name of " patella." Such being the elements employed by nature in constructing the locomotive extre- mities of Vertebrate animals, our only won- der is that by srmply modifying the figures of the bones, by suppressing some and exaggerating others, or else by fusing several of them together, such infinite diversity of apparatus is provided in the various classes of Vertebrata. Seldom, indeed, does a limb present all the pieces we have enumerated in a complete state of developement, and frequently the majority of them, or even the whole series, is entirely dispensed with. In many Fishes, as in the Lamprey and Myxine, all four ex- tremities are absolutely wanting, a circumstance which again becomes remarkable in the case of Ophidian Reptiles. Occasionally the hinder only are called into existence, and that in a very rudimentary state, as for example, in some Serpents, Anguis, Boa, &c. More frequently the anterior limbs are found without the pos- terior ; such is the case in the apodal Fishes, in the Siren and Bimanes among Reptiles, and still more conspicuously in the Cetacea. Exoskeleton.—Having thus examined all the elements that belong properly to the osseous system or endo-xkeleton, we must now turn our attention to another important system of organs equally concerned in building up the framework of the body, and that to an extent which the human osteologist would scarcely imagine possible. We allude to the external or cuticular skeleton, which, although reduced