319 MARSUPIALIA. nmtdez and Maffeius respecting the function of the marsupial pouch; " for," says Tyson, " here I find they place the mammae or teats, and they tell very odd stories about it," &c. The female Opossum which Tyson dissected appears to have been a young one, and there- fore, for a reason which has lately been clearly explained by Mr. Morgan, he was unable to detect the nipples within the pouch, and although he confesses that he was equally unable to find them upon the outer skin, he rejected the state- ments respecting the premature birth of the young and their pendulous attachment to the nipple, and, believing the generation of the Opossum not to deviate from that of ordinary quadrupeds, he limited the function of the mai'supium to that of affording a temporary shelter to the young in time of danger. The assertions of Hernandez and Maffeius were soon, however, corroborated by other ob- servers ; and Daubenton* repeated and con- firmed the dissections of Tyson, so far as re- garded the existence and general form of the uterus; but no satisfactory explanation was offered as to the nature or precise period of the uterine development or of the passage of the young to the marsupium. The next .really important advance towards the solution of this problem was made by John Hunter, who in the dissection of some marsupial foetuses of the Kangaroo detected evidences of a deviation from the ordinary mode of mammiferous development, in the ab- sence of the usual traces of a placental organi- zation ; there being in these foetuses no per- ceptible remains either of an urachus, of umbi- lical arteries, or of an umbilical vein. The beautiful series of preparations! exhibiting these and other interesting facts in the structure of the mammary + foetus of the Kangaroo are pre- served in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, and afforded the principal materials for the paper on Marsupial Generation, pub- lished by Mr. (afterwards Sir Everard) Home, in the 85th vol. of the Philosophical Transac- tions (1795). I have already shewn that one of the chief grounds of the theory of marsupial generation there proposed is untenable, the sup- posed remains of the foetus,ยง described as being situated in the corpus uteri, (vaginal cul-de-sac,) being nothing more than a portion of the inspis- sated secretion commonly present both in this sac and the lateral canals. The temporary ori- fice by which the foetus is stated to pass imme- diately from the so called corpus uteri into the vagina (uro-genital passage) does not exist. In the subsequent theory of marsupial gene- * Buffon, Hist, Naturelle, vol. x. t See Nos. 3758-3777, Physiol. Catal. vol. v. p. 209. t I adopt this term from M. de Blainville, in preference to the term ' marsupial' previously pro- posed by Dr. Barton, to express the condition of the young of the Marsnpialia from the time they enter the pouch to that of quitting the nipple, or to the close of the period of their uninterrupted attach- ment to the nipple. $ No. 3460 F. Physiol. Series, Mus. R. Coll. of Surgeons. ration propounded by Sir Everard Home,* the ' cornua uteri' of Tyson are regarded as por- tions of the Fallopian tubes. These he believes to furnish the yelk of the ovum, while the lateral canals, ' uteri reduplicali' of Tyson, secrete the albumen ; the ovum is supposed to be impreg- nated and incubated in the uterus, (middle cul- de-sac formed by the communication of the two vaginal canals,) out of which the young one is stated to pass into the vagina (uro-genital pas- sage) by a particular opening, which prior to gestation does not exist. The only observations published by John Hunter himself relative to marsupial genera- tion are contained in the ' Zoological Appendix to White's Voyage to New South Wales,' where, in the introduction to his descriptions of the quadrupeds of that country, Mr. Hunter alludes to the American Opossum, and ob- serves, " there is something in the mode of propagation in this animal that deviates from all others ; and though known in some degree to be extraordinary, yet it has never been at- tempted, where opportunity offered, to com- plete the investigation. I have often endea- voured to breed them in England; I have bought a great many, and my friends have assisted me by bringing them or sending them alive, yet never could get them to breed ; and although possessed of a great many facts re- specting them, I do not believe my information is sufficient to complete the system of propaga- tion in this class." At this period, when it was admitted on all hands that some remarkable peculiarities were connected with the marsupial generation, and yet their precise nature and signification re- mained unelucidated by any direct and accu- rate observation or experiment, it is not sur- prising that the subject should have given rise to many curious hypotheses and speculations; those of Sir Everard Home have already been noticed. I shall next briefly allude to the writings of M. Geoffroy St. Hilaire. The fruitful and discriminating labours of this talented Naturalist in advancing the zoolo- gical history of the Marsupialia cannot be too highly esteemed, but his attempts to elucidate their generative economy have been less suc- cessful. Placing an undue reliance on the relation of Count Aboville,f he first revived the gem- miparous doctrine,J meeting the objection afforded by Tyson's discovery of an uterus, by the remark tbat the foetus of the marsupial animal has never been found there; but that the teats are developed in the ratio of the size and according to the number of the young: that mules equally possess a generative appa- ratus, which is stricken with sterility: that some plants with a perfect system of procrea- tive organs, nevertheless propagate by gemma- * Philos. Trans. 1819, p. 234, and Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. iii. t See the note at the end of the 2d volume of ' Cliastelleux Voyage a l'Amerique Septentrionale, Paris, 1786.' X Journal Complcmentaire du Diet, des Sciences Medicales, 1819.