LIFE. 153 represented as constantly occurring in the tis- sues, has been unbalanced by the reposition of nutrient materials ; and that it has therefore manifested itself in the body even during life. Again, when spontaneous gangrene occurs from obstruction to the circulation, decomposi- tion slowly supervenes in the part from which the supply of nutrient fluid is cut off; and coincident with its progress is the extinction of the vital properties, constituting molecular death. (See vol. i. p. 791.) Corresponding changes may result in the whole body when the nutritive functions are interrupted, not by obstruction to the motion of the circulating fluid, but by depravation of its character ; and we then perceive the vital properties of each tissue impaired in a degree correspondent to the dependence of the integrity of its structure upon the constant renewal of its elements. The presumed impossibility of forming, by the chemical combination of their elements, any of the class of organic compounds or prox- imate principles, is regarded by many physiolo- gists as in itself a sufficient ground for the as- sumption that the affinities which act in the living body are different from those which we recognize in the inorganic world. The fact, however, which we have already noticed re- garding the artificial production of urea is one which powerfully opposes such an assump- tion.* This is slurred over by Miiller, with the remark that it can scarcely be considered as organic matter, being rather an excretion than a component of the body—a distinction which does not remove it from the pale of the operation of the supposed laws of vital affi- nity. Seeing the vast progress which organic chemistry has made during the last few years, and the rapid increase of our knowledge re- garding not merely the composition but the mutual relations of the class of bodies under consideration, we cannot but think it premature to assert that other compounds may not be pro- duced in a similar manner. Be it observed, however, that the doctrine for which we are now arguing only concerns the production of those compounds which are destined either to be thrown off from the system, or to undergo subsequent organisation ; and cannot apply to those in which the process of organisation, and the consequent development of vital properties have already commenced. This distinction is a very important one, and may, we think, by being kept steadily in view, save much un- successful because mis-directed labour. If, for example, our view be correct, it may be pos- sible for the chemist to produce the gum or sugar which he finds in the ascending sap of plants; but he can never hope to imitate the latex or elaborated sap, which already shows traces of organisation and of the possession of vital properties. In like manner the formation of albumen may be a worthy object of his endeavours, whilst these would be totally fruit- less if directed to the production of fibrin, * We do not quote any others reported to possess the same character, such as the production of fatty matter hy Berard and Hatchett, because they still require confirmation. which differs from it but little if at all in ehe-- mical constitution, but which is endowed in its fluid state with properties that nothing but the influence of a living system can generate. But quitting these speculations, we shall in- quire what positive evidence may be produced of the operation of chemical affinities in the changes of composition that form so important a part of vital action. Many facts might be collected which favour such a belief; but the following must here suffice. In tlie progress of vegetation we have frequent occasion to observe the conversion of gum and of fecula., which consists of gum enclosed in vesicles, into sugar. This takes place in germination, in the budding of the potato and other fleshy stems, in flowering, in the ripening of fruit, as well as in many other instances; in all these in which fecula is the subject of the change, it would seem that this product, having been stored away out of the current of the circu- lation against the time of need, is to be again brought into use, and to supply the pabulum of young or rapidly-growing parts by conver- sion into sugar. These changes are effected in various modes. Where gum is the subject of the conversion, we commonly find an acid employed to produce it, as in the ripening of fruits, where lignin as well as gum seems to undergo this change. The chemist can pro- duce the same effect by digesting gum or lignin with an acid at a certain temperature. Again, where the conversion of fecula into sugar takes place as one of the ordinary processes of the vegetable economy, it is effected by the pro- duction of a secretion termed diastase, which occasions both the rupture of the starch-vesicles and the change of their contained gum into sugar. This diastase, which is abundantly stored up in the neighbourhood of the eyes or buds of the potato, may be separately obtained by the chemist; and it acts as effectually in his laboratory as in that of the vegetable organism. Further, he can imitate its effects by other che- mical agents; for, by the joint operation of heat and acid, he can produce the same trans- formation. These are among the remarkable instances of the catalytic action recently described by Berzelius,* which is common to organic and inorganic operations, and which is not yet found to be comprehensible within the known laws of chemical affinity. The peculiarity of the action consists in the production by one body, A, of a change in the composition of another, B C, without itself undergoing any alteration. Thus, the peroxide of hydrogen, which is readily decomposed by any substance having an affinity for oxygen, is also decom- posed by some which themselves undergo no change, such as the metals and the fibrin of the blood ; these produce in it a state analogous to fermentation, oxygen escaping and water being left. Again, not only decompositions but new combinations may be effected in this manner. Thus, most metals at high temperatures, and platinum in a state of minute division at low temperatures, as well as various porous sub- * Edinb. Phil. Journal, vol, xxi.