PISCES. 1005 The tissue of which they are composed is similar to that which forms the membranous vestibule and saccux; it is, however, a tissue sui generis, being neither exactly comparable to cartilage, nor tendon, nor cellular membrane. It is pel- lucid, and when emptied of the enclosed fluid, inelastic, but flexible and easily torn. Its thickness is greater than that of the vestibule or of the sac of the otolithe; but the ampulla? seem thicker than the rest, for when wounded and their contents allowed to escape they still retain their form and expansion. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid. Auditory nerves.—The labyrinth of the ear in Fishes receives its nerves from two sources,* 1st, from the auditory nerve,properly so called, which is distributed to the membranous vesti- bule, and to the ampullae of the anterior and external semicircular canals ; 2ndly, from the "accessory auditory nerve," which, in most instances, seems to arise not from the brain but from the trigeminal or the vagus nerve, and supplies the ampulla of the posterior semicir- cular canal and the saccus. Ear of plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes.— In the Skate are two canals, regarded by Monro as representing the meatus auditorius extemus. The orifices of these are situated at the upper and back part of the head at a short distance from the junction of the skull with the first cer- vical vertebra, the opening of each being large enough to admit the end of a probe. Each of these orifices leads to a winding canal about two lines in diameter, which, after describing more than three-fourths of a circle, may be traced into the membranous vestibule of the ear. This canal is generally found filled with a white viscid matter. The vestibule is a large sac containing a very viscid pellucid humour, in consistence like the white of an egg, in which is suspended a soft cretaceous substance. To the anterior part of the large sac there is a smaller compartment communicating with the former by a narrow passage, which is likewise filled with glairy fluid, and, posteriorly, there is a third very small sacculus, similarly distended, in both of which cretaceous matter is found. The remaining portion of the internal ear consists of three canals, analogous to the semi- circular canals of the higher Vertebrata, but which here rather deserve the name of circular, seeing that each forms a complete circle; of these the anterior and the middle are joined together at their commencement by the wide in- tercommunicating branch which opens through the intervention of a small membranous tube into the anterior small sac of the vestibule. The third or posterior canal communicates with the large sac of the vestibule by means of a wide canal, but has no direct communication with either of the others. Each circular canal has a dilated portion or ampulla near one of its extremities, and is filled with a pellucid viscid fluid. They are all con- tained in cartilaginous tubes excavated in the cartilaginous substance of the cranium, but * Weber, loco cit. much wider than the membranous canals them- selves, the latter being suspended in a fluid interposed between them and the perichondrial lining of the cartilaginous passages, to which they are fixed by a delicate cellulosity, in which slender vessels and very minute nerves are visible. The auditory nerve on entering the ear di- vides into several branches. Of these the prin- cipal spreads out upon the inferior aspect of the great sac of the vestibule, where it forms a rich plexus; a similar but smaller plexus is formed upon the smaller anterior sac commu- nicating with the vestibule, while the other branches are appropriated to the semicircular canals, on the ampullae of which they would seem to be exclusively distributed; at least after forming a very beautiful expansion upon the dilated portion of the canal, it is impossible, owing perhaps to their very minute size, to trace them any further over its cylindrical part. Generative system.—One of the most re- markable circumstances connected with the history of the finny tribes is their extreme fertility, which, compared with that of the higher Vertebrata, is truly prodigious. A cod- fish has been calculated to produce 9,000,000 of eggs in a single season, and innumerable races of the osteopteryginous Fishes exhibit powers of reproduction equally extraordinary. To imagine that this exuberant fecundity is destined merely for the purpose of perpetuating the species would evidently be preposterous, and we are necessarily led to look for other rea- sons explanatory of such teeming births. There is this leading difference between the terrestrial and aquatic domains of animated nature—the earth is inhabited only at its surface, and the vegetable banquet which is there spread out in such rich abundance is sufficient to afford the means of subsistence to all earth's progeny. But the sea, throughout all its depth, at every altitude which man has been able to explore, is peopled with innumerable races of voracious beings, all of which are necessarily dependent for their existence upon a supply of animal food, which must consequently be distributed as widely as the waves of ocean are diffused. It is to supply this great stock of living pro- vender that the Sponges and the Polyps and all the humbler marine forms of existence are continually pouring forth their multitudinous germs, and it is for the purpose of adding to this enormous store that the majority of the osseous Fishes are so inordinately prolific. From these considerations we perceive at once a reason for the extraordinary apathy and total absence of parental affection which forms so conspicuous a feature in the character of the whole race, and it is by no means a subject devoid of interest to observe how gradually the ties between parent and offspring are drawn closer and closer as we ascend from these humblest members of the Vertebrata and arrive at progressively increasing intelligence as we advance from class to class. The generative apparatus of Fishes, as we have pointed out in a preceding article, (Ge- neration, Organs of, Comp. Anat.,) pre-