772 OPTIC NERVES. impressions are referred to the same side of the brain, and not to opposite sides of the brain as occurs in other cases." Wollaston adopted this hypothesis in conse- quence of the ready explanation it affords of certain cases of visits dimidiatus: he on several occasions in his own person experienced a tem- porary defect of vision, in consequence of which one and the same lateral half of every object became invisible, whilst he still continued to see the other half distinctly; and the same amount of blindness subsisted whether he em- ployed one or both eyes in looking at the object. Examples of the same form of amaurosis are of no very unfrequent occurrence, and according to the theoretical notions just propounded this partial loss of vision originates in some func- tional affection of one tractus opticus whilst the other remains healthy ; those parts of the two retinae which derive their origin from the faulty tractus being supposed to labour under a tem- porary amaurosis, while all other parts retain their ordinary sensibility. In further support of this hypothesis, Mid- ler's researches have convinced him that in man single vision by the two eyes occurs only when certain parts of the two retinae are affected simultaneously, and that under other circum- stances double vision ensues. This conclusion has been arrived at, chiefly from the results of experiments upon the eye-ball. Thus, when the eye-lids are closed in a dark room, if pressure be applied deeply to the eye so as to affect the retina, luminous spectra are produced. When certain parts of the two eye-balls are subjected to pressure at the same time, a single spectrum occurs, and when other parts of the two eye-balls are pressed upon simultaneously two spectra appear. Those parts of the two retinae which in the above experiment furnish a single spectrum are styled " identical," in con- sequence of their identity of sensation; and those parts which produce two spectra are de- nominated " non-identical,"forobvious reasons. Some of the conditions under which single and double vision respectively take place, seem to be confirmatory of this doctrine of" identical" and " non-identical" parts in the two retinae; thus double vision is a common consequence of any cause having a tendency to disturb the relative directions of the optic axes : for exam- ple, diplopia frequently occurs in cases of strabismus, and double vision may (accoiding to Muller) be produced in perfectly healthy eyes by a simple experiment: if a spectator fix his eyes upon an object and then press on one of them in such manner as to alter the direction of its axis, the object which at first seemed single will assume a double appearance. These phenomena admit of explanation on the suppo- sition that in consequence of the distortion of the axes of the eyes, the visual impressions take effect on " non-identical " parts of the two retinae, which therefore propagate two impres- sions instead of one to the sensorium. These views apparently strengthen Newton's hypothesis, for it may be presumed that the " identical" parts of the two retinae are those which derive their origin from the same tractus opticus, and the " non-identical " on the con- trary those which come from different tractus optici. The comparative anatomy of the nerves in question furnishes some facts favourable to Newton's hypothesis ; thus many animals in which the eyes are directed laterally, in such manner that each embraces a totally different field of vision, have no chiasma, and their optic nerves cross each other, so that the right retina is in connection solely with the left side of the brain, and vice versa. This arrangement pre- vails in the majority of osseous fish, and, for so far, affords negative proof of the hypothesis under consideration. The following theoretical explanation may be offered. " In these animals, owing to the position of their eyes, the same object can never be depicted on the two re- tinae simultaneously ; consequently, in them no provision to ensure single vision of the same object by both eyes is required, and therefore no parts of the two retinae have a common con- nection with one and the same side of the brain, the two optic nerves being derived respectively from opposite sides of the organ." Again, Mr. Solly has shown that in many fish, such as the skate, (in which the eyes are so set that the respective fields of vision may comprise in a great measure the same objects,) a chiasma exists: and the anatomy of the chiasma in birds is likewise on the whole fa- vourable to the hypothesis; for in these animals the optic axes are in general very divergent, and consequently the respective fields of vision can have but little identity ; a fact which agrees theoretically with the almost perfect decussation observable in their laminated chiasma. Although this explanation of single vision has been sanctioned by the authority of Newton and Wollaston, and supported by strong ana- tomical facts and analogies, it will scarcely stand the test of critical examination ; its va- lidity has therefore been much questioned and apparen tly with j u«tice, for the following reasons: 1. " Identity of sensation" is not exclusively a special attribute of the second pair; although it exists in them in great perfection, other nerves must also be admitted to possess trie same pro- perty ; thus notwithstanding that both ears are commonly employed simultaneously for the ordi- nary purposes of hearing, the sensation of ^.single impression of sound is in general propagated to the sensorium; and although both nares are used in the appreciation of odours, the sensation of single impressions of scents is most usually produced: now since neither the olfactory nor the auditory nerves are provided with a chiasma, and nevertheless these nerves unde- niably evince a unity of sensation, there is good reason for scepticism when the very same pro- perty in the optic nerves is attributed to the pre- sence of a chiasma. 2. Many facts in pathology are obviously at variance with Newton's theory ; if it were the true explanation of single vision, morbid affec- tions of one side of the brain (whenever pro- ductive of amaurosis) ought to implicate more or less of one half of each retina, whereas expe-