738 NOSE. correspondence between their respective degrees of developement. This is confirmed by the cases of the monsters in which the eyes are completely absent, but the orbits are naturally placed and the nose is well formed; and by those others already mentioned, in which the nose is absent, but the eyes and orbits are natural and almost naturally placed. From all these, and from the constancy of the deformity of the nose when the orbits are united, it may be deduced that the eye and the nose are deve- loped independently, except in regard to their position, and that the displacement of the nose, which constitutes one of the chief features of the Cyclopian monsters, is generally the con- sequence of the orbits having taken up the place of the nasal cavities. It cannot be said that the displacement of the orbits is the only cause of that of the nose, because there are a few cases in which the nose occupied the Cyclops position, though the orbits had their natural place; and one case in which the orbits and eyes were absent, and yet the nose was elongated like a proboscis and set high upon the forehead. But these do not invalidate the truth of the general deduction already drawn. The displacement of the nose is thus ex- plained with much probability by the precedent displacement of the orbits, and the latter is probably clue to an arrest in the develope- ment of the eyes. But the cause of the peculiar deformity of the nose is very obscure. There is generally some degree of relation be- tween the approach to completeness of the nose and that of the brain and its nerves, and espe- cially of the anterior lobes and the olfactory nerves : yet these nerves are sometimes present when the nose is most deformed, and when it has neither ethmoid bone nor cavity, nor even any osseous nucleus ; and in other cases they are absent when there is a distinct though mis- shapen external nose. Tiedemann's suppo- sition, therefore, that these, like other malforma- tions of organs, depend on a precedent defect in the corresponding nerves or parts of the ner- vous centres, cannot be maintained. Diseases of the nose.—These are so far gene- rally similar to those of the similar tissues in other parts that some of their peculiarities only need be mentioned here. The skin of the nose is perhaps more than any other part of the face subject to the erup- tions of acne, &c. And these acquire a some- what peculiar character from the small vessels of the nose being so liable to distension. In the common red nose, all the small veins are usually dilated and in a measure varicose; and even in healthy persons the circulation through the skin of the nose is carried on with com- paratively little force, if we may judge by the frequency with which it is partially arrested by cold. This dilatation of the vessels and con- sequent slowness of circulation not only render the diseases of the nose peculiarly obstinate, but permit them to produce changes of structure which are very rarely found among their defects in other parts. Such is the tuberculated indu- ration and thickening with deep red or livid congestion of the skin after long-continued acne, in which all the deeper textures appear to be confused in one hard brawny substance. When this state continues very long and the congestion somewhat abates, the thickened tissues remain, and sometimes grow into a kind of pendulous tumour from the end of the nose. Such tumours, (which, however, may form with little precedent acne,) are usually three-lobed, one portion seeming to correspond to the end, and one to the fore part of each of the alae, of the nose. One which I dissected was com- posed throughout of a compact, white, fibro- cellular tissue, like that of which the pendulous tumours consist which grow from other parts of the skin, and especially from the female labia. It seemed very little vascular,* and the hair- follicles and sebaceous glands were enormously enlarged. Some of the latter measured not less than a line in width, and their ducts, which opened at the bottoms of deep fossae, admitted full-sized bristles. The same enlargement of these organs takes place in certain large growths of the skin of the scrotum. The position of the cavities of the nose has been an effectual hindrance to the examination of the changes of structure produced by their ordinary diseases. Nothing is known of the state brought on by repeated colds. While they continue, the mucous membrane is gorged with blood, swollen, and red, so as to close, with the assistance of the increased secretion of mucus, the passage to the pharynx. Probably the mucous membrane is in time condensed and thickened ; and from this it may result that in looking over a number of sections of heads, the Schneiderian membrane is found by no means uniform in its thickness, consistence, or vascu- larity even on corresponding parts. M. Mareschalf has lately stated that, in the examination of eight persons who had had epis- taxis shortly before their deaths, he found in all a circumscribed portion of the membrane which was very congested, and dark red or livid. In two of them this congested part was situated anteriorly, near the junction of the septum and the floor of the nostrils; in the others poste- riorly on the fold of mucous membrane at the lower border of the inferior turbinated bone. Simple abscesses sometimes occur beneath the mucous membrane of the nose, especially after injuries ; and after passing through an ordinary course leave their usual effects in thickening, induration, and unnatural adhesion of the cica- trized tissues. A thickening of the mucous membrane simula- ting polypus has been already mentioned. It oc- curs especially in scrofulous children and young persons, and presents the same characters, as to its duration and progress, which are observed in the other chronic inflammations to which they are subject, and with one or more of which it is commonly associated. This spongy thickening * Sir W. Blizard lost a patient through hemor- rhage after the removal of a tumour of this kind from the nose ; but it is possible that this might have been owing to something wrong in the general state of the patient, for usually little blood is lost in such operations. f Annales de Chimrgie, Janvier, 1843.