853 OSSEOUS TISSUE. lation, even though the contents of the cells remain unaltered, which is not probable. Cells of smaller form and having branching tubes are to be found in the vegetable world. The shells of various fruits, as the cocoa-nut, peach, common nut, &c. present cells so like those of bone that a section of shell has often been mistaken for one of bone. In this instance they also answer the purposes of circulation. The growth of bones.—Many experiments have been made to ascertain the mode of growth in bones, but they have given as their results the direction of increase rather than the process of interstitial growth. The experiments alluded to are commonly spoken of as the madder experiments, and were instituted by Du Hamel, Detlif, Hunter, Stanley, Paget, and others. It was discovered that phosphate of lime acts upon the colouring matter of madder as a mordant. Thus, if phosphate of lime be pre- cipitated from a state of chemical combination in a solution of madder, the colouring matter of the madder is carried down with the phos- phate in a state of chemical combination, im- parting to the phosphate a red colour, which is not diminished by repeated washing, but gra- dually fades by exposure to light. But, before this discovery was made, it was found that the bones of some pigs that had been accidentally fed upon madder were rendered red. Atten- tion having been drawn to this curious fact that madder given in the food reddens the bones of the animal, the madder experiments were undertaken, and led to the following results. If madder be given to a growing animal, and the bones be examined by making a sec- tion of a cylindrical bone, a ring of reddened bone will be seen to form the circumference of the bone, and a similar reddened ring to form the parietes of the medullary cavity. If in this experiment the animal had been old, these rings of red would not have been seen, or, if seen, only very faintly. From these two ex- periments it has been deduced that the bone, or rather the phosphate of lime, which has ^jeeii deposited during the exhibition of the madder, has alone been reddened. If, however, after giving madder to a grow- ing animal for a time, its use be discontinued for awhile and then be again given, several rings of reddened bone will be observed on making a section of a cylindrical bone, that is, reddened bone will be deposited during the use of the madder, and white bone at the interval of its discontinuance. So that, by the alter- nate use and disuse of madder, rings of red and of white bone will be formed to a consi- derable number. From these experiments it has been deduced that bones increase in their diameter by the development of the bone on the surface somewhat in the same manner that a crystal increases in size by additions to its surface. Mr. Gibson, however, for a while threw some doubts on the value of the madder experiments and the deductions from them, by stating that the serum of the blood had an affinity for the colouring matter of madder superior to that of the phosphate of lime, and that the bone became stained only after the serum had been tho- roughly saturated with madder, and more, that the serum, from the discontinuance of madder in the food, or losing the colouring matter, absorbed that existing in the bones. Mr. Paget has, however, proved that the affinity is far stronger between phosphate of lime and the colouring matter of madder than between serum and the latter. These experi- ments seem at first sight far more valuable than a closer investigation will prove them to be, as will be seen on considering the following fact, namely, that not only is the surface of the bone with the walls of the medullary cavity tinged red by the exhibition of madder, but also the cir- cumference of everv Haversian canal through- out the bone, in fact every surface that lies in contact with a vessel or vessels. The fact that every Haversian canal has its coloured ring had escaped observation, as these experimenters had been limited to the use of the naked eye, whereas the Haversian canals, with their co- loured rings, are only seen by the use of the microscope. It therefore remains for observation to be made upon the effects of consecutive feeding with and without madder, upon the Haversian canals, before any very accurate deductions can be made. Other experiments have been tried in inves- tigating the growth of bones. Rings of metal have been lightly fixed round a long bone, which after a while has been found to contain the rings in its medullary cavity, from which it has been inferred that the bone has grown by additions to its circumference, while the medullary cavity has been enlarged by the absorption of the bone forming its parietes. These experiments, which were made by Du Hamel, have been confirmed by Hunter and Stanley. Experiments of a similar nature have been made to determine the manner of growth in the length of bones. Thus holes have been bored in the tibia of a dog at definite intervals, which intervals, after the lapse of some days, have been found altered in the relative lengths. The intervals near the ends of the bone have in- creased considerably, while those situated near the centre of the bone have scarcely changed. Mr. Stanley has shown that in some animals the growth is greatest at the distal end, while in other animals it is greater toward the proximal end of a long bone. In the two experiments which I have related in a previous part of this article the walls of the medullary cavity were as distinctly reddened as the circumference of the bone, and the cir- cumference of each Haversian canal as either. These would therefore prove too much for the theory which supposes that a long bone in- creases its diameter by the depositions upon its surface and under its medullary cavity by the absorption of the walls. Supposing the idea that phosphate of lime, winch is deposited during the exhibition of madder, is alone red-