603 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) lusca, the latter in the Articulata. In the Mollusca, what is it that constitutes an increase in developement of the primary nervous ring, the characteristic form of the nervous system of that class ? 1. The greater volume of a central medul- lary mass, and its situation on the dorsal aspect of the animal. 2. A small number of ganglions in the pri- mary nervous ring, proportioned to the deve- lopement of the muscular system, one predo- minating in size over the rest, especially if that one be situated on the dorsal aspect of the animal. These ganglia are disposed unsym- metrically throughout the body, whence Pro- fessor Owen has designated these animals, in reference to their nervous system, Heterogan- giiata. Mollusca.—1. Tunicata.—Many of the Tunicata, the lowest of them, approach in cha- racter the Zoophytes; for no particular medul- lary mass constituting a nervous system is dis- coverable in the soft texture of their bodies, except in but few of the genera, principally in the forms of Ascidise. In the Ascidia mam- millata (Jig. 336), Cuvier describes and figures the nervous system* as consisting of a single oblong ganglion, situated near the anus of the animal, and between that and the branchial Ascidia MammiUata, (after Cuvier,) shewing the single ganglion between the branchial and anal orijices. * Anatomic dcs Mollusqucs. orifice; from this ganglion branches are given off, some of which, passing to the oesophagus, encompass it in the form of a ring. [Mr. Garner, in his valuable paper on the nervous system of molluscous animals, de- scribes the nervous system of Phullusia intes- tinalis. The single yellowish ganglion lies upon the muscular coat between the two ori- fices. One set of filaments coming from it surrounds the branchial orifice, and gives nerves to its tentacula, appearing to meet on the oppo- site side, forming a nerve which seems to run along the edge of the elongated branchial fold. The other set supply the muscular tunic and go towards the mouth. In Cynthia and those tunicata that have thick muscular tunics, the ganglion is not visible external to the muscular sac, it being situated in its interior. As the actions of these animals are ex- tremely simple, so is their nervous system : by the branchial orifice water is drawn in to supply the branchia; and to convey nutrient matters to the mouth. It is propelled by the action of numerous cilia which cover the surfaces with which it comes in contact. Through the anal orifice are expelled both the current which sup- plied the respiratory surface and that which passes through the digestive canal. Each ori- fice is provided with a sphincter muscle, which may oppose the entrance of various matters at one orifice, or resist their exit at the other. These muscles receive filaments from the ganglion. The animal is surrounded by a muscular sac, which by its contraction can compress and empty its general cavity. This, too, receives some nervous filaments. The solitary ganglion of this ascidian seems to regulate the actions of its orifices of ingestion and egestion, and of its enveloping sac on which depends the slight locomotive power of the free species. We are not prepared to deny to even this simple being that prevailing attribute of animals, a will, and therefore it may be assumed that its actions are partly volitional and partly reflex (mental and physical)—while some are, no doubt, due simply to the inherent irritability of its muscu- lar tunic. 2. Conchifera.—In this order the nervous system is precisely adapted to thefunctions these animals have to perform. These are ingestion of the food, respiration, and locomotion. Their nervous centres or ganglia are, consequently, placed in immediate relation to the organs destined to those functions; but as one pair communicate with the others, it may be pre- sumed to exercise an influence over them, and to be the principal centre, the analogue of the brain in the higher animals, the focus of sen- sation and volition. The oesophageal or labial ganglia are for this reason the most important. They are two in number; they are situated more or less near the mouth, and are united by a transverse branch which arches over it. From these ganglia nerves are given off to the mouth, and to the tentacles, and to the anterior parts of the vis- cera. Each ganglion has a branch of commu- nication to the pedal ganglion and also to the branchial ganglion.