LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 215 injected the lymphatic vessels from the cellular tissue, and most anatomists have remarked that when an injection thrown into the bloodvessels has extravasated into the cellular membrane, it has occasionally entered the lymphatic vessels. I have several times injected Fohmann's so called lymphatic cells of the umbilical cord, and have preserved a specimen shewing them, but cannot acquiesce in the opinion that they form a part of the lymphatic system. These cells, which readily receive the quicksilver in- troduced into a puncture made in the cord, vary in diameter from l-100th to l-250th of an inch, and communicate freely with each other; they have a very regular and organized appearance, but can only be injected after putrefaction has commenced. Fohmann describes them as situated between the lym- phatics of the placenta, which terminate in them, and those of the foetus, which commence from them. I have never succeeded in pressing the injection from the cells of the cord into the lymphatics of the foetus or of the placenta. Treviranus conceives that the lymphatics every- where commence by elementary cylinders of cellular tissue, and that in the villi of the intes- tines these elementary cylinders are so arranged as to have one of their extremities terminating in a lacteal vessel situated in the centre of each villus, while the other reaches the periphery of the villus, on the surface of which they present little vesicular projections, in whose centre he thinks he perceives a minute orifice. Arnold also observed a similar arrangement of the cel- lular tissue of the orbit into minute cylinders, which he supposed to be an incipient net-work of lymphatic vessels. Cruveilhier considers it probable that the cellular tissue and the serous membranes are formed of lymphatic vessels; and Mascagni makes a more sweeping assertion that all the white textures and the whole cel- lular web of the body is composed of these vessels. The opinion that the lymphatic system com- mences by a plexus or net-work of vessels larger than the capillary bloodvessels, and which can always be seen by the unassisled eye when injected, appears to be the best supported by evidence, and to be that more generally received by modern investigators. These incipient plexuses are considered to be destitute of orifices either on the villi or elsewhere, and in this respect to resemble ■ the peripheral branches of the arteries, veins, and excretory ducts, which, according to the more recent views in minute anatomy, no where present open mouths. The splendid injections of Mascagni, Fohmann, Lauth, and Panizza, shewing these vessels in various parts of the body, on the interior of mucous mem- branes, on the surface of particular portions of the skin, on the serous membranes, especially that part covering the solid viscera, on the lining membrane of the heart and blood- vessels, and of the excretory ducts of the glandular viscera, offer a body of evidence which can scarcely be resisted. In none of these situations can open orifices be discovered by the aid of the microscope or by means of urging on the injection. On the surface of the liver, where the lymphatics may be injected with great facility, by pressing in a retrograde direction the injection may be forced beyond the valves, and by continuing the force some extremely minute globules of mercury may be made apparently to pass through the coats of the vessels. Haase has also, by the same pro- cedure, forced the mercury through a net-work of lymphatics on the surface of the skin; but these circumstances can hardly warrant the supposition of lateral organized pores. These primary networks of lymphatic vessels are said to be deficient in valves in some situations. The meshes of the networks are of various forms and sizes: sometimes they are nearly equal-sided, at others oblong or irregular; in some places the vessels are so . closely set that the spaces between them can scarcely be seen ; in others they are larger and very distinct. The plan adopted by Fohmann to display these vessels, though liable to some objections, ap- Fig. 51. Shewn an incipient plexus of lymphatic vessels. ( From Breschet.) a, the more superficial plexus formed of very minute valveless vessels., b, a deeper plexus formed of larger valveless vessels, which receive the contents of the former, and which terminate in lymphatic vessels armed with valves. pears to be the most successful. He pierces the part to be injected with a sharp-pointed lancet, held nearly horizontally, so as to pro- duce a very superficial wound, the lymphatic net-work being generally nearer the surface than the capillary bloodvessels ; into the wound thus effected the pipe of the mercurial injecting tube is inserted, and the quicksilver is made to enter some of the vessels opened in the in- cision, either by the weight of the column of the mercury or by urging it on with the handle of a scalpel. On the glans penis this method scarcely ever fails to fill the lymphatics, which are of large size. In the skin of the scrotum, and in the neighbourhood of the nipple, success will occasionally attend the attempt to shew these vessels; but in other parts of the integument, the endeavour has with me always been fruit- less, so much so that I cannot help doubting their universal existence on the surface of the true skin. Breschet's description of a net- work of lymphatics brought it to view by piercing the cuticle only, with a ( apillary tube of glass connected with a columi of mercury, lam convinced is deceptive : hi; words are—