720m PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. and no contractions are produced. They may, however, be reproduced by inverting the direction of the current by transposing the conducting wires of the battery. The cur- rent wdl now be inverse in B, and direct in A, fig. 398a. Or the fact may be illustra- ted by another disposition of the legs of the frog. Let both feet be immersed in one vessel and the pelvis in the other. The direct current may now be passed along the nerves in both limbs at the same time, until the phenomena of contraction on making or breaking cease. Inverse the current, and the contraction will again become manifest. This fact was first discovered by Volta, and this mode of exhibiting it has been described under the title Alternatives Voltiunes. If the inverted current continue some time, exhaustion will be produced ; but on inverting it again or restoring it to its former course, the actions will recommence. 4. These effects cannot be produced unless the nerves be in a state of integrity. If a liga- ture be tightly applied to the nerve of either limb close to the muscles, the contractions in that limb will no longer take place. Or to give a more striking illustration of this important fact, if a drop or two of pure sulphuric ether be applied to a point of either nerve, the contrac- tions in the limb of that side will be suspended until the effects of the ether pass off. These ex- periments unequivocally shew that the nerves are not merely conductors of the electrical cur- rent, but that the passage of the current through them developes in them a change which influ- ences the contractile force of the muscles. 5. The influence of the galvanic current af- fords the most striking results when motor nerves are made the subject of the experiments, but Matteucci has shown that sensitive nerves are affected in an analogous way by the inverse and direct current. In a living rabbit the sciatic nerves were exposed, and one nerve was devoted to the direct current, the other to the inverse. Opening and closing both currents were accom- panied with marked signs of pain, which, however, were greatest at the closure of the inverse current. After a short time, the signs of pain are manifested only on opening the direct current and closing the inverse. The reader will scarcely fail to observe that both as regards the sensitive and motor nerves, the effect of the electric current, whether in causing pain or in producing contractions, is greatest when the current passes through the nerve in the course in which the nervous force would naturally proceed in the ordinary nervous actions. It is further worthy of notice that the continuance of the direct current exhausts the power of the nerve, while the reversal of the direction of the current, if not too long delayed, restores it. The continuous passage of the current, however, is not marked either by con- tractions or by pain. The interruption of the current by any means at once developes these phenomena; or even the diversion of a portion of it produces the same effect, as Mari- anini showed long ago. If, for instance, the two vessels in which the frog's paws are immersed be connected by a conductor, as an arc of copper or silver wire, contractions will take place on making or breaking the connection ; or if the wires of the battery be connected by a third wire of the same material before they dip into the cups, the same effects will be produced. The continued transmission of an inverse current through a nerve increases to a remark- able extent its excitability. This is shewn by the following experiments: let the limbs of a frog be placed in two vessels of water and the current be passed through them in the manner above described, and let this be continued for a few minutes. After the lapse of this period, if the circuit be broken by taking one of the wires out of the water, the limb in which the current was inverse will be thrown into a state of tonic or tetanoid spasm for a few seconds, the tetanus ceasing with a clonic convulsion on the renewed completion of the circuit.* That these phenomena are due to a change developed in the nerve (not to any affection of the muscles) by the passage of the galvanic current, is clearly demonstrated by applying the galvanic current to a muscle directly, having first removed as much nerve out of it as pos- sible. The muscle will contract equally on making and breaking the circuit, whatever be the direction of the current; nor is it pos- sible to produce tetanic spasm, however long the current may have been continued through it. The following experiment, suggested by Matteucci, also strongly confirms this view. Let the current be passed through the limbs of a frog in the ordinary way. After the current has passed for 25 or 30 mmutes, cut the nerve traversed by the inverse current, at the point where it plunges into the thigh, and there will instantly ensue a violent contraction of that limb, which ceases very quickly. If, however, instead of this the nerve be cut where it issues from the spinal cord, so as to leave a certain length of the nerve attached to the thigh, there will be a violent contraction of the muscles, which will be followed by others, and the limb will remain in a tetanic state for 10 or 15 seconds or longer.f The tetanoid contractions of the muscles may be produced by a rapid series of currents passed through the nerve alternately in the in- verse and direct course, as by the electro-mag- netic or the magneto-electric instrument. These are always greatest and last longest if a portion of the nervous centre remain connected with the limbs. E. H. Weber has lately made a very interesting series of researches by means of the magneto-electric rotation instrument developing the peculiar mode of action of par- ticular muscles.}; We cannot explain these remarkable pheno- mena on any other principle than on that which supposes the developement of the nervous force to be associated with the assumption of a polar condition by the molecules of the nerves under the influence of certain stimuli. The inverse current excites a polar state of greater intensity * Matteucci, Phil. Trans. 1846. t Comptes Reiidus, March 15, 1847. t Wagner, Worterbuch. Art. Muskelbewegung.