ORGANIC ANALYSIS. 815 within three-quarters of an inch of the large end, the chloride broken into fragments about the size of peas, is put, and a loose piece of cotton-wool, occupying another quarter of an inch, thrust in ; the opening is then closed by a coik, through which passes a bit of straight tube, rather larger in the bore than that at- tached to the bulb, and projecting about an inch outside the whole; the cork is trimmed close to the large tube and covered neatly with melted sealing-wax; and, lastly, air is drawn through the apparatus by the mouth to ascer- tain that no obstruction exists. It is now ready for use: after two or three experiments the chloride should be renewed, or there will be a danger of the gases being imperfectly dried. The tube when not in use must always be placed in a rack with the bulb end uppermost to prevent the loss of any small pieces of chlo- ride. Concentrated sulphuric acid may be advantageously substituted for chloride of cal- cium in the drying tube. In this case the tube is tilled with fragments of pumice-stone; these are moistened with the oil of vitriol, and the apparatus is fitted up as usual, excepting that the employment of the cotton-wool is dis- pensed with. The combustion tube is then prepared by selecting a sound elastic cork, which is made accurately to close the mouth of the tube ; it is pierced with a round hie, and fitted firmly upon the fine tube proceeding from the bulb of the drying tube ; the cork is then well dried on the sand-bath, and forms the medium of connection between the retort and drying tube. The potash apparatus is one invented by Liebig, represented in jig. 430, e. It consists of a fine but stout tube, upon which is a series of bulbs, three in the middle horizontal part of the instrument, and one on each of the ascending limbs; one of the latter bulbs is made ponsiderably larger than the other; the apparatus is filled by adjusting a suction tube to one of the openings, and exhausting by the cheeks until a certain measured quantity of solution of potash has entered; when the liquid fills each of the three lower bulbs rather more than three-quarters of their capacity, suf- ficient has been introduced. The solution of potash employed has a sp. gr. of from 1.25 to 1.27, and must be renewed for every experiment; the portions that have been used may be put aside, and afterwards, when sufficient has been collected, may again be rendered caustic in the usual way by quicklime. The compound commonly used for supply- ing oxygen to the substance burned is oxide of copper, which readily imparts oxygen to combustible matter in contact with it, but bears a very high temperature pa' se without decomposition. It is best procured by dis- solving copper in pure nitric acid, evaporating to dryness and decomposing the nitrate by heating it strongly in an earthen crucible. Ig- nition is kept up till red fumes cease to appear; if the heat be too great the oxide becomes agglutinated, and requires strong pounding in an iron mortar to pulverize it; it however, in this dense state, is much less hygroscopic, and therefore better adapted for the purposes of analysis. The powdered oxide is sifted through a fine copper sieve, and secured in stoppered glass bottles. Immediately before each analytical ope- ration a sufficient quantity of the oxide is ignited, and while still hot transferred to a dry tube, by plunging the mouth of the tube into the oxide in the crucible and then shaking it in piecemeal. The tube with the oxide is immediately closed with a dry cork, and al- lowed to cool. Meantime the interior of the retort is completely dried by heating each por- tion of it in succession in the flame of a spirit- lamp, beginning at the closed end, and draw- ing air through the heated tube, by means of a narrower tube passed down just beyond the heated part and exhausting by the mouth; when every part has thus been dried, the retort is corked and allowed to cool. Five or six grains of the powdered and dried sub- stance are put into a perfectly dry test tube, and the whole is very accurately weighed ; its contents are then added to the oxide of copper in the mortar and the empty tube again weighed ; the difference gives the weight of the substance employed. The best kind of mortar is one of Wedge- wood ware or Berlin porcelain, capable of con- taining about half a pint, with a pestle com- posed of a single piece of the same material; it should be thoroughly dried and well warmed. Much caution is requisite in charging the re- tort. The warm dry mortar is placed on a sheet of glazed paper and first cleared out with a little of the dried oxide of copper, which is put aside. Oxide to the depth of an inch is poured into the combustion tube; a small quantity of oxide is put into the mortar, then the substance to be analysed, then more oxide ; the mixture must be made quickly and care- fully, adding so much oxide as shall be suf- ficient to fill a little more than half the retort; the mortar is then taken in the palm of the left hand and the mixture introduced, carefully picking it up piecemeal by the retort tube it- self; fresh portions of oxide are rubbed in the mortar to clear out the last traces, and the retort is then filled up with pure oxide of cop- per to within two inches of the extremity. The proportions of the mixture are repre- sented in Jig. 430 : the portion from the tail of the tube to the letter a consists of pure oxide of copper, from a to b of the mixture, from b to c of the rinsings of the mortar, and from c to within an inch of the cork is again pure oxide. If the process of mixing has occupied much time, it may be advisable to subject the tube and its contents to a further operation to re- move any traces of moisture that may have been absorbed. The tube is struck smartly in a horizontal position on the table, to clear the tail-like prolongation, and to make an air-way above the oxide from end to end; an exhaust- ing syringe made fast to the table by a screw- vice or other convenient means, is attached to a f