MOTION. 414 The number of moveable articulations in a skeleton determines the degree of its mobility within itself; and the kind and number of these articulations of the locomotive organs determine the number and disposition of the muscles act- ing upon them. See Articulation. The strength, density, and elasticity of the external skeleton of animals have been but very partially investigated or made an ob- ject of either physiological or mechanical en- quiry, notwithstanding their great importance in the animal economy generally, as well as their office in locomotion. A superficial inspection, however, is suffi- cient to detect that the shells of those animals which reside constantly at the bottom of the sea, as the Astrea triduina, Phombus, &c. are more dense, and contain a greater number of calca- reous laminae than those which swim or float, either by means of specific organs of progres- sion, such as the Tanthina vulgaris, the Lymnse, and Hyalaea, or upon hydrostatic principles, as in the Nautilus, assisted, it is believed, by the siphon. Shells are formed with a design to resist the greatest external pressure, consistent with the least expenditure of materials, and with regard to the habits of the animal. The bones of vertebrated animals, especially those which are entirely terrestrial, are much more elastic, hard, and calculated by their chemical elements to bear the shocks and strains incident to terrestrial progression than those of the aquatic vertebrata; the bones of the latter being more fibrous and spongy in their texture, the skeleton is more soft and yielding. The bones of the higher orders of vertebrata, such as the Mammalia, which are designed to afford large surfaces for the attachment of their powerful muscles of locomotion, are constructed in such a manner as to combine lightness with strength; therefore their surfaces are convex ex- ternally, concave within, and strengthened by ridges running across their discs : such are the forms of the scapular and iliac bones. The long bones of the legs and arms of Mammalia are piled on each other endwise, forming a series of moveable columns, which in the standing position are directed vertically; these are designed to support the head, neck, and trunk, with all their contents and appen- dages, together with their own weight, and to elevate the trunk to some variable height above the plane of position. It would indeed be a problem of no small difficulty, if it were proposed to an artist to erect a moveable column, composed of a de- finite number of rods, so united and inclined as to fulfil all the objects, for which the long bones of the extremities are designed when viewed only mechanically, and adapted to support the weight of the superincumbent or- gans, to present the lengthened dimensions ne- cessary to raise the trunk often far above the plane of motion, the strength requisite to bear the shocks directed upon them both vertically and laterally, the symmetry of form and beauty of proportion corresponding to the outline and functions of other organs, their extremities being furnished with articulating surfaces for the joints, with ridges and protuberances for the at- tachment of muscles, and with levers adapted to perform all the varied offices of locomotion. In quadrupeds, which have four osseous columns to support the superincumbent organs, the pressure of the trunk on each leg is only half that in bipeds; but owing to the hori- zontal inclination of the trunk and the projec- tion of the neck and head, the anterior osseous pedestals have to sustain the largest proportion of the weight; and we consequently find that the angle formed by the bones of the anterior ex- tremities at the joint are less, and the directions of the bones nearer the vertical plane in these than in the posterior: this arrangement is most conspicuous in the larger Ruminantia and Pachydermata, especially in the Elephant, Horse, &c. We may, therefore, readily per- ceive why the shafts of the long bones of the legs and arms of most Mammalia are par- tially hollow cylinders; the prismatic outline predominates in the Elephant and Megatherium. The weights which cylindrical or prismatic flexible columns will support perpendicularly when their bases and composition are equal is, according to Euler,* in the inverse ratio of the squares of their lengths, therefore if we take any bones, of similar materials and thickness, but of which the lengths are as 1,2, 3, 4, 5, they will support weights without flexion rela- tively in the proportions 1, \, ^ so that whilst the lengths increase in an arithmetical progression, the weights will decrease in a geometrical progression; the necessity, there- fore, for dividing the columns which sustain the trunk by means of the joints, independently of the use of the latter for locomotion, is obvious. According to Galileo, the power of a beam or bar to resist a fracture by a force acting late- rally, is as the section of the beam, where the force is applied, multiplied into the distance of the centre of gravity of the section from the point or line where the fracture will end. By applying this principle to the case of bones, we deduce the following propositions, which must, however, be regarded only as approximations to the truth. The lateral strength of two cylindrical bones of equal weight and length, of which one is hollow and the other solid, are to each other as the diameters of their transverse sections. Thus, let ab, d e (jig. 217, A, B,) be the sec- tion of the two bones : then the strength of the tube d e is to that of the solid a b as d e to a b. Fig. 217. A a I * De curv.is elasticis, No. 37.