803 ORGANIC ANALYSIS. Sulphuric acid may be precipitated from the filtered liquid or from any fluid suspected to contain it by acidulating (if not already acid), not too strongly, with nitric acid, and preci- pitating with nitrate of baryta. The preci- pitate should be well washed with boiling water as long as any thing is dissolved, then ignited and weighed. Boiling nitric acid is without effect upon it; 100 grs. contain 34.19 of sulphuric acid. (B.) The insoluble portion consists of carbo- nates and phosphates of the earths, and per- haps of iron. We bring them into solution by means of nitric acid, and supersaturate with caustic ammonia to separate the phos- phates; filter if necessary, and add oxalate of ammonia; collect and ignite the precipitate, moisten with solution of carbonate of am- monia; it is once more heated to incipient redness, and it then consists of carbonate of lime: the carbonic acid is estimated in the manner already directed. The filtered liquid is boiled with solution of carbonate of am- monia; the magnesia, if any, precipitates and must be strongly ignited; 100 parts indicate 110 of carbonic acid, which must be added to that combined with the lime. Phosphoric acid.-—The quantitative estima- tion of this body is attended with some dif- ficulty, as it cannot be effected by direct pre- cipitation, but is inferred from the loss. The precipitate by caustic ammonia just obtained consists entirely of earthy phosphates and phos- phate of iron. It is ignited and the weight ascertained. It is then brought into solution by means of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and ammonia added until the precipitate from the still acid solution is no longer perfectly re- dissolved. Acetic acid is now added and then more ammonia, taking care that the liquid is still strongly acid. Phosphate of iron alone precipitates; this is separated by filtration, and after strong ignition consists of 57.44 phos- phoric acid and 42.56 sesquioxide of iron. From the filtered liquid the lime and mag- nesia are separated by oxalate of ammonia and caustic ammonia, as will presently be de- scribed ; then deducting the united weight of the oxide of iron, lime, and magnesia from that of the ignited mixed phosphates, the remainder is phosphoric acid. In order to bring the tests for analogous bodies together, I shall here interrupt the course of the analysis to describe the methods of pro- ceeding with those substances for which occa- sionally, though more rarely, we have to look. Iodine, in organic fluids, always occurs in the form of an iodide, and is not met with in the human body in its normal condition. We must evaporate to dryness and treat the residue with alcohol. The iodide will be dissolved ; we again evaporate to dryness and re-dissolve in water: (if the quantity be not very minute, this preliminary process may be dispensed with, merely concentrating the liquid and allowing it to cool ;) iodine may now be detected by adding a little cold solution of starch, and pouring into the mixture a few drops of solution either of chlorine or of chlo- ride of lime (bleaching liquor), when a blue colour, more or less intense, is produced. The quantitative estimation of iodine in these ana- lyses is seldom required; when it is, a neutral solution of chloride of palladium is added to the solution, accurately neutralized, and the whole set aside in a warm place for twenty- four hours, a black precipitate of iodide of pal- ladium forms: it should be collected on a weighed filter and dried at a very gentle heat, otherwise part of the iodine escapes. 100 grs. of iodide of palladium contain 70 of iodine. By suspending this iodide in water and adding starch and a little chlorine water, the blue colour is produced as usual. Fluorine, when present, and it appears to be a universal constituent of bones, is always in exceedingly minute quantity. To discover it we incinerate the dried matter, pulverize and make it into a thin cream with oil of vitriol in a shallow platinum crucible; instead of its usual cover the mouth is closed by a piece of flat glass, the under surface of which has been covered with a film of melted bees' wax or some resinous varnish ; when firm or dry, a few characters are traced with a sharp point to expose the glass underneath; the glass is pressed upon the crucible so as completely to close it, and the whole heated over a spirit- lamp for a quarter of an hour. The glass is kept cool by a piece of moistened paper. If any fluorine be present, the traces upon the glass from which the wax has been removed will be more or less corroded ; the superfluous wax may be removed by oil of turpentine, and the corrosion may be rendered distinct by rubbing a little powdered charcoal over the surface. If any marks are produced, it is an unequivocal proof of the presence of fluorine. This method, however, is not very delicate. Free sulphur is detected by boiling the sub- stance with solution of potash; if this element be present in the unoxidized state, a black pre- cipitate of sulphuret of lead is formed,on add- ing a few drops of acetate of lead. If we desire to know the quantity of free sulphur, we first satisfy ourselves of the ab- sence of sulphuric acid, or determine its quan- tity accurately by the method already de- scribed ; then deflagrate the substance or dry residue with eight parts of pure nitre and two ofpure carbonate of potash, throwingthemixture in successive small portions into a platinum crucible heated to redness; the sulphur is thus converted into sulphuric acid at the expense of the oxygen of the nitre, and its quantity may be determined by dissolving the saline residue in water, supersaturating with nitric acid, and precipitating by a salt of baryta as usual: the process is one requiring more than ordinary care to ensure accuracy. To resume the usual process of analysis, we now proceed to determine the bases. Most of the acids may be determined with consi- derable exactness before the organic matter has been destroyed by ignition; it is not so with the bases. Incineration should always precede an attempt to estimate them. The second por- tion of saline matter is dissolved in water as