I 974 PISCES. every degree of formation from a simple furrow to a perfectly enclosed tube. The broad scales or plates which form the armour of the Syngnathidae are traversed by similar canals enclosed on all sides, which, al- though separate at the margins, anastomose freely towards the middle of the scale. The longitudinal lines in all their forms con- stitute a series of hollow tubes that must be regarded as true canals. These canals traverse the scale in a longitudinal direction converging towards a focus, which, as will be shown here- after, is a centre of nutrition, so that most pro- bably these tubes perform the functions of nutritive vessels. 2. The cellular lines, supposed by preceding writers to be merely lines of growth analo- gous to those observable upon the exterior of a bivalve shell, attentive examination shews to owe their arrangement to a very different cause, originating in the developement of pri- mitive cells, which are developed in the super- ficial stratum of the scale and gradually assume an elongated form, become filled with corneous matter, and ultimately arrange themselves in concentric lines of greater or less breadth, which only indicate by their uneven edges their original nature. 3. The corpuscles seen in scales are precisely similar in their appearance to those met with in bone and cartilage, and are obviously of the same nature. They are distributed in the basis membrane, which seems to be an amorphous tissue resembling that in which the corpuscles of bone are deposited, and which forms the superficial stratum of the scale. 4. The fibrous layer.—On scraping off with a penknife the external surface of the scale, the cellular lines and the corpuscles with their basal membrane are removed, and the deep- seated stratum of the scale becomes visible, which is then seen to consist of fibrous lamella; composed of fibres that cross each other at regular angles, giving to this tissue the appear- ance of fibro-cartilage. This layer is thickest near the focus of the scale, and become gradu- ally thinner towards the edges. 5. The focus is the space towards which the longitudinal lines converge, but is not always situated in the centre of the scale; it is occu- pied by very large pale corpuscles and by interrupted circular lines; such at least is its appearance in the scales of Acanthopterygenous Fishes, but in the Malacopterygii, and more especially in those species which have mem- branous scales, it presents nothing but a smooth circumscribed surface without corpuscles or in- terrupted lamina, and is then generally sur- rounded by the concentric cellular lines. 6. The teeth of the scales.—The growth of the spines and other appendages seen upon the outer surface and posterior margin of many forms of scales, more especially in those named ctenoid by Agassiz, is a subject of very consi- derable interest, and to the old physiologists, who believed all scales formed by mere exuda- tion, must have been quite unintelligible. The production of these spines is in fact, according to the researches of Dr. Mandl, in every respect similar to the growth of teeth, each being enclosed in a distinct capsule and developed ill the following manner, as exemplified by the growth of a scale of Corvina nigra, one of the Scienida?. The posterior margin of one of these scales is occupied by conical appendages, represented in a highly magnified condition in Jig. 508. Each Fig. 508. of the oblong processes here depicted is seen to be enclosed in an envelope, from which, however, it is entirely separate, as is pro- ved by the fact that when the capsule is ruptured the enclosed spine can be re- moved from it with the ut- most facility. Examined in detail, every one of these spines exhibits an organi- zation and mode of growth precisely similar to that of a tooth, being formed in its capsule exactly in a similar manner. The germ begins gradually todevelope itself; it acquires roots, and be- comes distinctly composed of different layers, so that these spines may with pro- priety be called the teeth of the scales, in allusion to the mode of their develope- ment. The marginal teeth A small portion of the are most developed, and scale of Corrnna ni- , h ( , ara, hiiilay muqni- _, fed, shewing the so- Thus ln the figure the progressive develop- two superior teeth are seen ment of the teeth enclosed in their capsules, uponjts surface. tnejr bases thick and well (After Mandl.) formed> and the whole sur. face of the tooth smooth and continuous. In the two next teeth below, the developement is much less advanced; the extremities are truncated, the external layer of the tooth does not entirely cover it, but the roots are visible. Still lower down the teeth of the scale become more and more imperfect, until the lowest are scarcely at all developed, and are bareiy distinguishable among the surrounding corpuscles. In other families with denticulated scales the growth of these appendages is precisely similar, as in the Gobioides, Percoides, Pleu- ronectida?,&c. From the above observations it becomes evi- dent that the scales of Fishes can no longer be regarded as mere productions of secretion from the skin, but must be considered as possessing an inherent power of nutrition and a true growth. The denticles which exist upon many of these scales offer by their successive deve- lopement a striking proof of this important fact; while the canals whereby they are tra- versed, and the corpuscles belonging to their structure, plainly intimate that their mode of developement is similar to what exists in the teeth and in the osseous system. The chemical composition of the scales of Fishes, moreover, very nearly approximates