828 OSSEOUS SYSTE obvious; it is only necessary for the student to recur to less distorted forms of the head at once to recognise the reality of the resem- blance. Should other proof indeed be wanting, the manner in which all the cerebral nerves make their exit from the cranium would in itself offer a convincing argument. In every other part of the cerebro-spinal axis the nerves in- variably are given off through passages situated between contiguous vertebrae, which are called, from this circumstance, par excellence, inter- vertebral foramina ; nay, so sure is this guide, that in those instances where the vertebral pieces are confused, so as to be otherwise un- distinguishable from each other, the position and number of these foramina is sufficient to indicate the number of vertebrae of which the part of the skeleton in question originally con- sisted, before the pieces composing it became permanently anchylosed. Precisely in the same manner the nerves derived from the encephalon pass out through the interspaces between the occipital and parietal vertebras, or between the latter and the frontal; and, although from the great bulk of the encephalic masses and the number of nerves derived therefrom, the passages through which they principally escape have been named foramina lucera, indicating their size and irregularity; Fig. 438. Skull of Boa Constrictor. they are not on that account less the repre- sentatives of the intervertebral foramina pro- perly so called. The mere circumstance of the channels of some of these nerves being, in the human subject and in other Mammifera, cir- cumscribed by rings of bone and thus con- verted into distinct foramina, to which special names have been given by the human osteo- (Comp. Anat) Fig. 439. > Section of skull of Boa. logist, militates in no degree against the grand fact that it is between the cranial vertebrae they all make their exit. Having given the above general view of the composition of the osseous skeleton, a more difficult task now remains to be accomplished, viz. to identify and compare with each other the individual bones entering into the com- position of the osseous system throughout the different vertebral classes, and thus to analyse the entire fabric. Various and conflicting in- deed are the opinions of different writers on this important subject, of whose names and works an ample list will be given in the Biblio- graphy affixed to the end of this article; but to enter into the argumentation of disputed points would of course be impossible in our prescribed limits. Suffice it to say, that the views of the acute and sound-judging Cuvier have been principally adhered to, and where occasion has been found to dissent from his opinion we have expressed our reasons for so doing.* Bones of the cranium.— Frontah(l). These bones in fishes form the roof of the orbit and the anterior portion of the cranial box, having in front and behind them other pairs of bones forming the anterior and posterior boundaries of the orbit which correspond with the ante- rior and posterior frontals in Reptiles. In the Frog the whole of the anterior portion of the cranium is made up of a single bone, which entirely surrounds it like a ring or girdle, and represents the two frontal bones of Serpents * We must here especially acknowledge our obligation to Professor Owen, who has most kindly placed at our disposal the result of his researches concerning the homology of the cranial bones of Fishes : his opinions have been introduced in their proper places.