602 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) Cuvier has also been unable to make out any traces of a nervous system, and doubted the accuracy of the statement made by Spix. These animals are, however, extremely sensible to the touch, when expanded, and to the light when exposed to its influence. This would indicate some degree of nervous sensibility, but which we can conceive to be afforded by the nervous elements being distributed in their homoge- neous structure in a manner similar to the preceding classes. In the next class, the Acalephu, which consists of gelatinous marine animals, Trembley,* Gcede,t Carus,J and other anatomists have failed to detect any distinct nervous filaments. Dr. Grant,§ however, de- scribes what he considers a nervous system in the Beroe pileus, and describes it as " consist- ing of a double circular nervous filament, situated around the oral extremity of the body, which sends off minute filaments in each of the spaces between the eight longitudinal bands of cilia?; these eight points, from which the longitudinal filaments come off, present minute ganglionic enlargements." This statement has been recently called in question, and it is pro- bable that the nervous system in these animals is diffused throughout the gelatinous mass of which their bodies are composed. Dr. Milne Edwards describes and figures part of the nervous system in a larger species of Beroe (Lemeura vitrea), as radiating from a single small ganglion which is closely connected with a coloured eye-speck, situated at the middle of the superior extremity of the body.|| Radiata.—In the next group of animals, the Radiata, nervous filaments are for the first time discoverable; and this being the case, it is important that we should notice what form and direction they assume: it is that of a ray and a central point, or a nerve and a ganglion; of these several are de- veloped ; and as it is the very essence of a nervous system that it should consist of gan- glions united and not separated, threads of communication are developed, called commis- sures, and a ganglionic system is formed, the inferiority of which is expressed in the Echi- nodermata by the perfect equality of all the ganglions: these ganglions are also situated at an equal distance from each other, and are determined in their number and origin by the general organization of the animals: thus we shall find that in the Asterias, or star-fish, with five rays, there are five ganglions (with radia- ting nerves) sending off commissures, which, inasmuch as they are situated on a spherical surface, unite them in the form of a ring. (See Echinodermata, Jig. 23, p. 44, vol. ii.) This ring we may call the primary nervous ring; it is that form which we shall hereafter recognize as the essential base of even the * Memoires pour servir a l'histoire d'un genre de polypes d'eau douce, 1774. t Beitraege zur Anatomie und Physiologie der Medusen, 1816. J Anatomie Comparee, vol. i. § Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. || Ann. des Sc. Nat. n. s, t. xvi., and Owen's Lectures, by White, p. 106. most varied forms of a nervous system. Tt is only in the genus Asterias that a nervous system has been distinctly seen; and we are indebted to Tiedemann for the first description of it, in his Monograph of the Echinodermata.* In a small species of this genus, it consisted of a circular cord around the mouth, from which proceeded a filament along each ray, having, at its origin, a minute ganglionic en- largement ; the nervous ring rested upon the extreme edge of the central aperture in the cal- careous frame-work of the body, and the fila- ments rested on the inferior surface of the rays, concealed by and at the base of the tubular feet and suckers. Two other filaments, much shorter than those just described, according to Tiedemann,t are given off from each of these ganglionic enlargements, to be distributed to the stomach and other viscera. And Ehrenberg affirms that the red points situated at the ex- tremity of each ray are eyes, and receive nerves connected with special ganglia. The statement, however, has not received confirmation from any subsequent observer; but Mr. E. Forbes describes a kind of protective apparatus apper- taining to these points, consisting of a peculiar arrangement of the spines around them. [The existence of ganglia is questioned by many observers. Microscopic examination would decide the point.] In the Echinus no nervous filaments have hitherto been discovered ; but in the genus Ilolothuria, Cuvier observes, " that there ap- pears to be a very attenuated nervous cord around the oesophagus.";]; This Delle Chiaje denies entirely.§ Dr. Grant, however, de- scribes their nervous system to exist in the form of a collar around the anterior part of the body, giving off longitudinal filaments.|| [It is remarkable that, although the nervous system be very obscurely developed in these animals, the action of the muscular integument is extremely powerful. The slightest irritation of the surface is sufficient to occasion forcible contraction of the integument to such a degree that the thin membranes of the cloaca become lacerated, and large portions of the intestine and other viscera are forced from the anal aperture. " So common is this occurrence," says Professor Rymer Jones, " that the older anatomists were led to suppose that, by a natural instinct, the animals, when seized, vomited their own bowels. It is, in fact, extremely difficult to obtain perfect specimens of the Holothuridae from the constant occur- rence of this accident."] We may next ask what are the characteristics of an increase in developement of the primary nervous ring just mentioned, as the funda- mental form of every nervous system. They are precisely these : either that it is in itself more highly developed, or that it is multiplied and repeated several times. This we shall find illustrated in nature; the former in the Mol- * Anatomie der Rohrenholothurie, &c. 1320. t Loc. cit. 1 Regne Animal, vol. iv. 6 Memoir sull' asteria, &c. 1823. j| Lectures on Comparative Anatomy.