7 INSTINCT. * Ibid, vol. i. p. 178. t Kirhy, vol. i. p. 198. he has himself accurately described. The fol- lowing appears a more comprehensive enume- ration. Three great classes of instinctive ac- tions may be distinguished ; the first designed for the preservation of individuals; the second for the propagation and support of their off- spring ; and the third for various purposes im- portant either to the race of animals exhibiting them, or to other animals, but not distinctly referable to either of the formei heads. Each of these classes admits of obvious sub- divisions. I. Of instincts designed for- the preservation of the individuals exhibiting them, we may enumerate the following :— 1. All animals are endowed with instincts prompting them to some means of escaping or repelling injury or violence, but these are ex- ceedingly various, both as to the kind and as to the degree of complexity of the actions which they excite; from the simple retraction of the tentacula of the infusory Y'orticella, or of the Medusa, Polype, or Actinia, up to the active and formidable resistance of the ele- phant or the tiger. The most common instinct of self-preservation excited by the emotion of fear, is that which prompts to flight, an in- stinct so obviously existing in the human species, that the effort by which it is resisted has in all ages been regarded with respect; and another very common propensity in animals is that which prompts to concealment. This is often combined with flight, as in most of the Carnivorous Mammalia, the Kodentia, the Ce- tacea, the diving birds, reptiles, insects, &c.; but some of the higher animals, and many of the Mollusca and insects, and others of the lower tribes, remain quite motionless and counterfeit death when under the influence of fear ;* and it is remarkable that when the cir- cumstances of the animals render this mode of defence the most effectual, it is that adopted, in preference to flight, even by single species of families, the other members of which shew no such instinct, as in the case of the ptarmi- gan, which so frequently cowers among the grey lichen, or the snow on the mountain- tops, instead of taking wing like the moor fowl, or in that of the hedge-hog, which on occasion of any imminent danger makes no effort but that of coiling itself into a ball. In many instances the instinct either of flight or concealment is aided by very various special contrivances, equally instinctive, fitted either to deceive, or to alarm, or injure an assailant. Some even of the Mollusca, and some of the reptiles, as the toad, squirt water on him; many reptiles and some lower animals, as the scorpion, bee, wasp, &c, even some of the gelatinous radiata,f have the power of emit- * " In this situation, spiders will suffer them- selves to be pierced with pins and torn to pieces, without discovering the smallest sign of pain. This simulation of death has been ascribed to a strong convulsion or stupor occasioned by terror ; but this solution of the phenomenon is erroneous. If the object of terror is removed, in a few se- conds the animal runs off with great rapidity."— Duncan On Instinct. ting irritating matter of greater or less inten- sity ; the electrical animals, as the gymnotus and torpedo, use their appointed weapons ; the hedge-hog and porcupine oppose their sharp thorns to any one who attempts to molest them; many insects and some reptiles protect them- selves by emitting peculiarly fetid effluvia; the cuttle-fish tribe have the remarkable power of emitting an inky fluid which darkens the wa- ter and hides them ; and on the other hand there is reason to believe that the phosphores- cent light which so many marine animals ex- hibit, may be suddenly augmented on occa- sion of any threatening of injury, and serve as a means of defence.* (See Luminousness.) The means of defence, and the instincts guid- ing them, in the case, not only of the higher Carnivorous animals, but many of the stronger of the Herbivorous classes, the elephant, the hog, the horse, the buffalo, the deer, &c. re- quire no illustration. The instinct which prompts many animals to utter cries when injured or threatened, (as well as on other occasions and for other purposes,) deserves notice as a means of protection, parti- cularly on this account, that as it is one of the instincts which most clearly extends to the human race, so we may perceive in man, as well as in some of the lower animals, that its use is not merely to frighten assailants, but especially to procure assistance and protection for the young animal from its parents. 2. The most conspicuous and most remark- ably varied of the instincts under this head are those by which the food of different ani- mals is procured. With the exception of the sponges, and some others of the lowest Zoo- phyta, in which the nourishment is supplied by currents, all animals have organs corresponding to a mouth and stomach, into which aliments are taken by a process of deglutition, imply- ing sensations and instinctive efforts conse- quent on these; and in the Articulata and Mollusca, the most important central organ of the nervous system seems to be the nervous collar surrounding the oesophagus, which in the vertebrated animals seems to be developed and subdivided into the first, fifth, and part of the eighth pairs of nerves, with the corres- ponding portions of the cerebro-spinal axis, by which the sensation of hunger is felt, the suitable nourishment discriminated, and the instinctive effort, whether of deglutition only, or of mastication more or less powerful ac- cording to the food, is excited. In some instances subsidiary instincts are also implanted in certain animals, which are essential to their digestion and nutrition. The art of cookery, as universally practised by the human race, may be said to be the result of experience; but this cannot be said of the pro- pensity of many animals to swallow salt, still less of the swallowing of gravel or pebbles by the graminivorous birds, or of the copious draughts of water, sufficient to store the nu- merous and peculiar cells of their first and second stomachs, which are taken by the camel