PISCES. 976 In Mylobates, a kind of Ray, in which the teeth are most perfectly adapted for crushing and bruising food, the arrangement of the den- tal apparatus is very curious. In this fish the teeth form broad plates, which are of hexagonal shape, and so closely fitted together by their edges that they form a complete tesselated pavement. In the Cestracion Philippii, or Port Jack- son Shark, both the above descriptions of teeth are found united in the same jaws, the anterior resembling the sharp teeth of the common Rays, while the posterior are broad and dis- posed like the paving-stones in a street (fig. 509). The Mylobates affords, moreover, an additional proof of a very convincing descrip- tion that the teeth of Fishes are developed from the lining membrane of the mouth quite independently of the jaws, seeing that here there is a row developed from the mesial line of the jaws, precisely over the symphysis—a circumstance never observable in the higher animals, where the jaws and teeth are brought into closer relation with each other. The teeth of the Squaloid Fishes or true Sharks are renewed by a very similar mode of growth. In these redoubtable monsters of the deep the teeth consist of numerous rows of broad and trenchant laminae, the anterior row of which (fig. 510, a) stands up perpendicu- larly from the jaws ready for use, while the succeeding layers are recumbent, being covered over by a fold of the mucous lining of the mouth. These teeth, like those of the Rays, are per- petually renovated, new and sharp rows being constantly ready behind to replace the old and worn ones in front as soon as the latter fall out or become useless. The situation of these teeth and their mode of growth is represented in the annexed figure. Their only connection with the cartilaginous jaw is evidently through the medium of the interposed fibro-mucous layer (d), which, as it slowly advances forward, carries the teeth with it, and thus brings the successive rows progressively into use. In the Sharks there is no distinct pulp, the dense exterior layer of the tooth being formed by the calcifi- cation of the " membrana propria" of the pulp, so that when divided they are found to be permanently hollow, as represented in the figure (c). In the Cyclostomatous Fishes the teeth are still more evidently mere cuticular appendages, seeing that in their case there are no bony jaws to which they can be affixed. In the Myxine Glutinosa, the Hag-fish, one of the most humbly organized but at the same time the most formidable of the finny tribes, this is extremely evident. The Myxine is generally found buried in the substance of some large fish which it has attacked, and by means of the tremendous apparatus we are about to describe succeeds in penetrating, tearing, and devour- ing the soft parts of its unfortunate victim as it pioneers its way into its interior. In order to effect this these fishes are furnished with a single sharp and recurved fang attached to the centre of the roof of their mouth and fixed to the cartilages of the cranium by strong Fig. 510. fibrous bands. Inferiorly the surface of the tongue is covered with four rows of sharp horny blades, two rows being placed on each side, the whole apparatus being susceptible of being advanced and retracted by means of strong muscles. It is not difficult, there- fore, to imagine the efficiency of a dental appa- ratus such as this in enabling the Myxine to accomplish its murderous purpose. The Lampreys, likewise, whose parasitic habits are not very dissimilar from those of the Myxine, have a very singular dental apparatus, which is quite distinct from the cartilaginous skeleton, and evidently purely composed of epidermic structures. The teeth of the Lam- prey are composed of horny plates or tuber- cles of different forms, which are disposed with great regularity over the whole surface of the sucker-shaped mouth. Each of these horny teeth is supported upon and secreted by a pulp derived from the mucous membrane of the mouth, much in the same manner as other corneous epidermic structures, and from their disposition will evidently secure a deadly hold of any victim seized upon. Besides these la- bial teeth there is one fixed to the roof of the mouth which is obviously analogous to the solitary palatine fang of Myxine last described. This (fig. 511, b) is composed of two horny cones attached by fibrous ligaments to the pala- tine cartilages in the roof of the mouth. The tongue (d), which, like that of the Myxine, is here very moveable and capable of being re- tracted and protruded by means of strong- muscles, is likewise armed with serrated teeth, with which, as with a rasp, the Lamprey tears through the flesh of its prey.