MONOTREMATA. 394 The ovaria correspond in situation and sur- rounding attachments with the testes in the male ; and the oviducts and uteri exhibit in their closely convoluted disposition an analogy with the long epididymis or vas deferens. The left ovary (Jig.\9\,f) is an irregular, semi-elliptical, flattened body, with a wrinkled and slightly granulated surface in the unexcited state; but thicker, and with the surface studded by elevations formed by the ovisacs in different stages of development at the season of sexual excitement. At this period I have usually found two ovisacs, as in the figure, which are conspicuously larger than the rest, and present- ing each a diameter of about two lines. The right ovary (_/"') is a narrow, thin, generally elongated body; sometimes broader, with a finely granulated surface. It is often scarcely to be distinguished from the ovarian ligament to which it is attached. This ligament (i, i) arises from the posterior parietes of the abdo- men, behind and a little on the outer side of the kidney, and passes along the edge of the broad ligament to the fallopian extremity of the oviduct, where it divides into two; one portion is attached to the side of the ovary, the other to the posterior margin of the fallopian orifice: after a course of an inch they again unite, and the ligament is continued along the anterior part of the uterus to its cervix, where it is in- sensibly lost. The two separated portions of the ligament support a large pouch of perito- neum which forms the ovarian capsule; the wide anterior orifice of the oviduct is also, by means of this ligament, prevented from being drawn away from the ovary. The efferent tube of the ovarian products is present on both sides of the body, and is divi- sible into an oviduct, or fallopian tube, (</',) and an uterus (d). The size of the latter is nearly equal on both sides, but the right ovi- duct is much shorter than the left, and corre- sponds with the abortive condition of the ovary. The external serous coat of the oviduct is loosely connected to the muscular coat by fila- mentary processes of cellular membrane, among which numerous tortuous vessels ramify. The muscular coat is thin and compact, and is most readily demonstrable in the uterus. The mu- cous coat is thin and smooth in the oviduct; it is thick, soft, plicated, but not villous, in the uterus. The left uterus in a female with a large ovary, shot in the month of September, was two inches long, from four to five lines in diameter, and about a line thick in its parietes ; it be- came suddenly contracted and thinner in its coats to form the oviduct, which presented a diameter of about two lines, slightly enlarging to within an inch of the extremity, which forms a wide membranous pouch, (d",) opening into the capsule of the ovary by an oblong orifice or slit (e.) of eight lines in extent. The edges of this orifice were entire, as in the oviducts of Reptiles, not indented as in the fimbriated ex- tremity of the Fallopian tube in ordinary qua- drupeds. The entire length of the oviduct and uterine tube, when detached from their con- nections with the mesometry, was nine inches. The right uterus and oviduct of the same speci- men exhibited similar differences in diameter and structure, but was shoiter, measuring only six inches in length. In a specimen with a slightly developed ovary, killed by Mr. Bell in April, the uteri were not much wider than the oviducts, and not thicker in their coats; the entire tubes were much less in all their dimensions than those just described. In the specimen above described with the large ovary, the thickened parietes of the first portion of the uterine tube depended chiefly on an increase of the inner membrane, which pre- sents in a high degree the character of a se- creting surface. This membrane at the cervix uteri presented in all the specimens many deep and close-set furrows, which, as the canal grew wider, were gradually lost, and the surface became more or less smooth in the different specimens, being most irregular in the speci- men with the largest ovary. In the oviduct, the inner surface is at first smooth after leaving the uterus, but beyond that becomes finely re- ticulate, and in the terminal dilated part be- comes again smooth. The cervix uteri makes a valvular projeclion analogous to an os tinea: on each side of the commencement of the uro- genital canal, just beyond the orifice of the urinary bladder. There are two orifices on each of these prominences; the lower one is the termination of the ureter, and a bristle is repre- sented as passing through it in Jig. 191 ; the upper or anterior orifice is the os uteri, m. In young or virgin Ornithorhynchi this ori- fice forms scarcely any projection into the uro- genital canal, and it is divided by a narrow septum, or hymen.* The uro-genital canal (c) is one inch and a half long, and three or four lines in diameter, but capable of being dilated to as great an extent probably as the pelvis will admit of; the diameter of the bony passage being seven- tenths of an inch. It is invested with a mus- cular coat, the external fibres of which are longitudinal, the internal circular. The inner membrane of this part is disposed in longi- tudinal rugae more or less marked, but pre- sents as little the character of a secreting mem- brane as that of the vestibule, being smooth and shining; the orifices of a few minute follicles are situated in the interstices of the rugae near the orifice of the urinary bladder. It is this division only of the passage from the uterus which is situated within the pelvis, the vestibule being produced beyond it, and the common outlet being in consequence situ- ated at a considerable distance from the outlet of the pelvis.f If the Omithorhynchus were oviparous, its eggs must be disproportionately small compared with those of birds, in order to pass through the unyielding pelvis, unless the albumen and shell were subsequently added to the yolk in the * Geoffroy, Memoires du Museum, torn. xv. p. 32. t In this structure, as well as in its aquatic life, the Omithorhynchus resembles the Bea-ver.