NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 711 sound hemisphere may excite to action the centre of volition (corpus striatum) on the dis- eased side. The existence of hemiplegic paralysis, then, implies an affection, direct or indirect, of the centre of volition (corpus striatum) on the op- posite side. Pressure, or a morbid change in the physiccd state of its tissue originating in it or propagated to it, is all that is necessary for this purpose; and this change, like the change in the normal actions, may be of such a kind as to elude our means of observation. When a sensation is excited, the stimulus acts from periphery to centre. The change is propagated by the sentient nerve to the optic thalamus, which, by its numberless radiations and its many commissures, is well calculated to excite all parts of either hemisphere, and even of both hemispheres. When the nerve excited is one of pure sense, the change is wrought more directly in the brain ; if the fifth, or any of the nerves of the medulla oblongata, the stimulus acts directly on the part; but if a nerve of either limb be stimulated, the change must be propagated through the spinal coid. It will be asked, if this be the modus ope- randi in sensations, how does it happen that disease of one optic thalamus does not impair sensation in one-half of the body? And how is it that such disease is much more frequently associated with hemiplegic paralysis, of a kind not to be distinguished from that which de- pends on diseased corpus striatum. The answer to the first question is as follows. The optic thalamus, or, more properly, the centre of sen- sations, is never wholly diseased, for this centre is not confined to the optic thalamus of descrip- tive anatomists, but extends to the mesocephale and olivary columns. Extensive disease of this centre would probably be fatal to sensa- tion. But the most ample provision exists for opening up new channels of sensation if those on one side or a part of them be impeded. The centres of opposite sides are intimately connected, especially in the medulla oblongata and mesocephale, by commissural or by decus- sating fibres; the optic thalami of opposite sides are connected to each other by the poste- rior commissure and the soft commissure, and the immense multitude of fibres which radiate from each thalamus insure its connection with a considerable extent of the brain, so that a change in any part of it cannot fail to be com- municated to some portion of the hemisphere. It is sufficient for mere sensation that the centre of sensibility should be affected. Intellectual change resulting from that affection depends upon fibres which radiate between it and the optic thalami. It often happens that at the onset of a cerebral lesion .sensation as well as motion is paralysed in the opposite side of the body. In a few days, however, the sensibility returns whilst the pa- ralysis of motion remains,—a fact which is sufficient to show that the motor and sensitive power must have different channels in the centres as well as in the nerves. The primary paralysis of sensation may be due to a lesion on one side affecting the centre of sensibility, or to the shock which that centre may have received from the sudden occurrence of lesion in some other neighbouring part. In the latter instance the recovery of sensibility takes place evidently on the subsidence of the effects of shock : in the former it may depend on the existence of other channels of sensitive impres- sions, independently of those involved in the lesion. Hence there may be lesion of one optic thalamus without loss of sensibility. The answer to the second question is ob- tained from considering the intimate connection of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. No two parts of the brain are so closely united by fibres in vast numbers passing from one to the other. Disease of the thalamus therefore may excite a morbid state of the corpus striatum, without producing any change in its structure, which may be recognised by the or- dinary means of observation. And thus he- miplegia will take place, and remain as long as the morbid state of the corpus striatum re- mains. A lesion of the corpus striatum may in a similar manner affect the optic thalamus of the same side; but as that is not the only channel of sensitive impressions, a loss of sen- sibility does not necessarily occur. Emotions are for the most part excited through the senses. A tale of woe, a dis- gusting or painful spectacle, a feat of won- derful power or skill, the sudden appearance of a person not expected, are calculated to produce corresponding emotions of pity, dis- gust or pain, wonder or surprise. But emo- tions may likewise be produced by intellectual change. The workings of the conscience may remind one of some duty neglected or some fault committed, and the emotion of pain, or pity, or remorse may ensue. Now emotion may give rise to movements indepen- dently of the will. The extraordinary influ- ence of emotion on the countenance is well known, and this may affect one side of the face, which is paralysed to the influence of the will, or it may excite movements of the limbs, even when the will can exert no controul over them. From these facts it is plain that that part of the brain which is influenced by emo- tion must be so connected that the convolu- tions may affect it or be affected by it; that it may be readily acted on by the nerves of pure sense; that it may influence the spinal cord and the motor nerves of the face when the ordinary channels of voluntary action have been stopped. No part possesses these conditions so completely as the superior and posterior part of the mesocephale, which we have already noticed as concerned in acts of sensation. Is an emotion excited by an impression made upon one of the senses? this part becomes directly affected, and through the optic thala- mus the emotional feeling causes intellectual change. The working of the intellect on the other hand may act on the seat of emotion through the same channel. And an excite- ment of this part may produce movement of a limb, or of all the limbs, through its influence on the spinal cord through the olivary columns. The cerebellum influences the antero-lateral