OPTIC NERVES. 765 Fig. 411. Brain of a Turtle. (From nature.) Lateral vietv. a a, optic nerves ; b, chiasma ; c, optic lobes ; d, tractus opticus, connecting the right optic lobe to the chiasma. what parts of the mammal's brain are analogous to the optic lobes of the lower classes. The tubercula quadrigemina in man and the mammalia are iden- tical with the optic lobes of the lower vertebrata; they occur as four small tubercles arranged in pairs, of which the anterior are called the nates, and the posterior the testes. Tn some of the class, as for example, Ruminantia, Soli- peda, and Rodentia, the nates are of larger dimensions than the testes; in immense in birds of prey, and much smaller in others, as for instance, Carmvora, the testes other birds not equally remarkable for perfec- predominate in size over the nates, and in tion of sight (Jig. 412). Man and Quadmmana the two pairs are nearly equal. fig. 412. fig. 413. Brain of an Eagle. (From nature.) Seen from below. a, a, optic nerves ; c, chiasma, of immense size ; b, b, optic lobes of large dimensions, placed at the inferior and lateral aspect of the encephalon. The situation of these bodies in the brain of the bird, so different from their position in reptiles and fish, created at one period some doubts as to their true analogies; but Serres has shown that during the early stages of deve- lopement the optic lobes occupy precisely the same position in the encephalon of the chick which they hold permanently in the brain of the reptile and fish, and he has thereby divested this subject of much of its obscurity. Thus before the tenth day of incubation the optic lobes of the chick are placed between the cere- bellum and the cerebral hemispheres, and are then best seen at the dorsal aspect of the brain : but after this epoch the hemispheres and cere- bellum approach each other at the expense of the optic lobes—the hemispheres extending backwards, and the cerebellum inclining for- wards. By this double movement the optic lobes are soon overlapped behind, separated from each other, and at length pushed down- wards and outwards to their permanent si- tuation (Jig. 413). In Man tlit optic nerves derive some roots from the tubercula quudrigemina. In birds, reptiles, and fish, the optic lobes constitute the principal sources of the optic nerves, and therefore in any attempt to ascer- tain the true origin of the second pair in man, a necessary preliminary will be to determine Brain of a chick. (After Serres.) At three different stages of incubation. A, at sixth day; B, at tenth day; C, at four- teenth day. A, a, a, optic lobes ; b, rudimental cerebellum ; c, c, cerebral hemispheres. B, o, a, optic lobes separated from each other in front, and here slightly depressed; b, cerebellum inclining upwards and forwards between optic lobes ; c, c, cerebral hemispheres growing backwards so as to overlap the optic lobes. C, a, a, optic lobes still farther separated from each other and depressed towards base of brain ; b, cerebellum growing upwards between the optic lobes ; c, c, cerebral hemispheres carried backwards so as to come nearly into contact with the cere- bellum. Reference to fig. 412 will shew the brain of the bird in its full-giown condition. The tubercles in question have but little apparent similarity to the optic lobes of the lower Vertebrata : they occur as four eminences, while the optic lobes of birds, reptiles, and fish, are but two in number : they are of dimi- nutive size; the optic lobes of birds, reptiles, and fish are of large dimensions in proportion to the brain : they are solid; the optic lobes of birds, reptiles, and fish are hollow: and in Man and most Mammalia they are covered upon the upper surface by the cerebral hemi- spheres, while the optic lobes in reptiles and fish are not so covered. Such obvious dissimi- larity tended materially to obscure the real nature of the tubercula quadrigemina, but a careful study of the developement of these bodies in the foetal brain led anatomists at length to discover their true analogies; and the researches of Tiedemann and Serres have chiefly contributed to establish the following particulars. " In the earlier stages of uterine life the tuber- cula quadrigemina of Man and Mammalia