NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 165 called Glisson's capsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics and nerves. For an accurate knowledge of these different structures, anatomy is indebted to the labours of Mr. Kiernan, to whose paper on " The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver," con- tained in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833, I shall have constant occasion to refer. The small bodies (lobules, acini, corpuscula, glandular grains, granulations) of which the liver is composed were discovered by Wepfer in the liver of the pig, about two years pre- viously to the appearance of Malpighi's cele- brated work, " De Viscerum Structura Ex- ercitatio Anatomica." Malpighi, unacquainted with Wepfer's discovery, examined and des- cribed these bodies, both in animals and in man, under the name of lobules; and the lo- bules he found to consist of smaller bodies, which he named acini. From some want of precision in Malpighi's descriptions, these two names have been confounded by the majority of succeeding anatomists; the term lobules, with its distinctive application, has been disre- garded and forgotten, and the term acini has been applied to those minute bodies of which the liver appears to be formed when examined beneath the microscope with a moderate power, —the acini of Malpighi. So great, indeed, is the confusion of terms even in 1838, that we find a justly celebrated authority in minute anatomy, Miiller, in speaking of Kiernan's discovery, using the following words. " He " (Kiernan) " describes the lobules of the liver (which by other anatomists are termed acini)," and further on he observes: " his description of their form is indeed similar to that which we have given above of the acini of the mace- rated liver of the polar bear." Now, setting aside the anachronism of discovery contained in the above quotation, which, as it appears to me, should have been, our description of the acini of the polar bear is similar to his des- cription of the form of the lobules, inasmuch as Kiernan's discovery was published in 1833, and Miiller's description of the macerated liver of the polar bear in 1835, I cannot but feel somewhat surprised in observing that Miiller draws no line of distinction between the lo- bules and their supposed constituents the acini. Nay, that he would seem to imply that all anatomists were acquainted with the lo- bules, but that they assigned to them a dif- ferent name. To prove that this is not the case, 1 quote a passage from his work upon the glands, published in 1830, in which he ex- presses himself unable to distinguish the ele- mentary structure of the liver either in man or in numerous other mammalia, for he says, " In homine, ut in plurimis mammalibus, in he- patis superficie certa quoedam particularum ejementarium sive acinorum conformatio con- spici non potest." Now the question to be de- cided, is the meaning which he assigns in this quotation to the word acinorum ; does he mean by that word the lobules or the acini of Mal- pighi ? The solution is simple; we have it in his own words, and exhibited in a figure in which hts peculiar views of the anatomy of the organ are clearly illustrated. In this figure, (Jig. 217, page 485,) he says, " Observantur fines ductuum biliferorum elongati, seu cylin- driformes acini, in figuris ramosis et foliatis varie dispositi." So that the acini of Miiller in 1830 are the terminations of the biliferous ducts, corresponding therefore with the acini of Malpighi, and the lobular biliary plexus of Kiernan. In 1835, as instanced in the " ma- cerated liver of the polar bear," the acini of Miiller are the lobules of Malpighi and Kiernan. Now seeing this indecision of opinion upon a subject of so great importance in relation to the proper understanding of the minute anatomy of the liver, I have deemed it my duty, in the service of anatomy, to place before my readers this cursory sketch of the history of the anatomy of the organ, and to establish the meaning of the terms I shall have occasion to use in des- cribing its intimate structure. By the word lobules I shall mean, not the acini of anato- mists, " which are anything or everything or nothing as the case may be," but the lobules of Malpighi and of Kiernan;—by the word acini I shall indicate the smaller bodies of which the lobules appear to be composed (acini of Malpighi and of all writers); but which have been shewn by Kiernan to be the meshes of a plexus of biliary ducts, the " lobular biliary plexus." The lobules are small granular bodies of about the size of a millet-seed, of an irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded pro- jecting processes upon their surface. When divided longitudinally (Jig. 34) they have a foliated appearance, and transversely (Jig. 35) Fig. 34. a A longitudinal section of a sub-lobular vein. Nos. 1, 1, longitudinal sections of lobules, pre- senting a foliated appearance. 2, 2, superficial lo- bules terminating by a flat extremity upon the surface of the liver ; 3, 3, the capsular surface of a lobule ; 4, the bases of the lobules seen through the coats of the vein and forming the canal in which the sub-lobular vein is contained; 5, the intralo- bular vein commencing by minute venules at ashort distance from the capsular surface of the lobule ; 6, the intra-lobular vein of a superficial lobule com- mencing directly from the surface ; 7, the open- ings of the intra-lobular veins which issue from the centre of the base of each lobule ; 8, the interlo- bular fissures seen through the coats of the sub-lo- bular vein ; 9, interlobular spaces.