OPTIC NERVES. 769 nerves thus united; and for these reasons the physiology of the chiasma is invested with uncommon interest. The existence of a chiasma is not general throughout the animal series, and even when present it exhibits much diversity of appearance and structure in different classes. A brief ex- position of some of its more striking varieties, in animals, will probably constitute the best introduction to the study of the chiasma in man. Invertebrate.—In the invertebrate classes nothing like a chiasma has been demonstrated, nor has any mutual crossing of the special optic nerves been proved to exist. The nerves which are furnished to the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans pass in a direct course to their destination ; the same remark applies to the nerves from which the lens-eyes of insecta, arachnida, Crustacea, and mollusca, derive their sensibility; and it may be presumed that the nerves which supply the simple eye-dots of annelida and other inferior animals are similarly circumstanced. Osseous fish.—In osseous fish the optic nerves generally cross each other at an acute angle, in such manner that the nerve which comes from the right side of the brain goes distinctly to the left eye, and vice versa : at the point of decussation the nerves lie one over the other ; they are usually flattened at this spot, and closely joined together, but this junction is effected by means of cellular or fibrous ad- hesions only, as no intermingling of the nervous filaments takes place, and the nerves themselves can be isolated without injury to their proper structure (Jig. 407). Cartilaginous fish.—In cartilaginous fish a well-marked chiasma occurs. In this class the junction of the two optic nerves is no longer effected by means of mere cellular adhesions, as in the osseous fish, but a perfect union of the proper substance of the nerves constitutes a true chiasma. The optic nerves arise each from the corresponding optic lobe chiefly ; they quickly converge, and soon become confounded with each other in the chiasma; and so inti- mate is their connection, that anatomists possess little information as to the exact arrangement of the nervous filaments in this structure (fig. 410). Birds.—In birds the chiasma is large, being proportional to the size of the optic nerves; by 'a little management its organization can be accurately demonstrated. Maceration for a few days in spirits hardens this structure suffici- ently to enable the operator to strip off the neurilemma, and then, even without the aid of a lens, the chiasma may be seen to consist chiefly of laminae. Forcible extension of the optic nerves, in such a manner as to tear through the superficial stratum of the chiasma on its lateral aspect, greatly facilitates the examination. The lamina; originate in the tractus opticus, and appear to spring from the inner part alone of that mass ; they gain the chiasma, and here those derived from opposite sides of the brain form a reciprocal interlacement. A perfect and regular decussation of the inner filaments of the two tractus optici thus takes place in the vol. in. chiasma, in such manner that a large proportion of the tractus of one side is evidently traceable to the opposite optic nerve, and vice versa: but the outer part of each tractus opticus con- tinues on to form the outer part of the optic nerve of its own side, and has no concern in the formation of the decussating lamina. The number of laminae in the chiasma of different birds is subject to some variety, but in the entire class, without exception, the lami- nated structure prevails (fig. 417). Fig. 417. Chiasma of the common fowl. (After M tiller.) 1 a, a, optic nerves ; b, chiasma, dissected so as to shew its decussating laminae; c, c, tractus optici. Amphibia and reptiles.—In amphibia and reptiles a laminated chiasma, somewhat similar to that just described in birds, occurs; but the decussating laminae are very variable in number, and in general much fewer than in birds. Thus, in Amphisbcena, according to Miiller, there are only five laminae in all, two from one side, and three from the other ; and in lacerta ocellata, according to the same authority, as many as eight have been counted, four on either side (jig. 418). In some reptiles the posterior part of the chiasma is strictly commissural, the inner part of each tractus opticus being appro- priated to the formation of a band-like com- missure: in Amphisbcena a triangular space separates this band from the remainder of the chiasma (fig. 418). Fig. 418. A. V. Chiasma in Amphisbcena. (After Miiller.) A, section of chiasma to exhibit the decussating laminae, of which there are three from one side and two from the other. B, chiasma seen from helow. a, a, optic nerves ; b, b, tractus optici; c, com- missural band ; d, triangular space ; f, true chi- asma. Mammalia andman.—In mammalia and man the chiasma is no longer laminated, and great difficulty occurs in attempts to display its real structure. The older anatomists were evidently unable to trace the filaments of the human optic nerves satisfactorily through the chiasma, and in eon- sequence they relied either on pathological facts, or the results of experiments, or the data furnished by comparative anatomy, to determine the mutual relations of the second pair in this 3 D