239 MAMMALIA. Order IV. RUM1NANTIA. The Ruminantia, or the natural Order re- cognized by Aristotle under the name of M»pyx<i£ovTa, subsequently adopted by all Zoo- logists, have their external and internal cha- racters alike conspicuous and cogent. These, according to Pallas are, incisors wanting in the upper jaw; hoofs bifid; habit of the whole body; stomach quadruple; intestines very long with accecum ; suet for fat; cotyledons in place of placenta. The genera included in this order are Camelus, JMoschus, Cervus, Aigoceros, Bos, Antilope. Order V. ANOMALOPODA. The genera grouped together by Pallas under this name differ, lie observes, from each other in their dental apparatus and the structure of their feet, yet nevertheless are linked together by natural affinity (" sed lumen inter se naturali affinilute coherent"). Thus Hippopotamus is allied to Equus, the horse to Rhinoceros and its congener Hydrpchterus, and these to the genus Sits. The following characters are com- mon to the whole order: molares truncate, tritu- rating; feet ungulate, supported on the digits ; stomach a macerator, with enormous colon and coecum; clavicles wanting; produce perfect; food vegetable. The genera which Pallas exemplifies in this Order, which corresponds with the Pachyderma of Cuvier (the Proboscidians being excepted), are Equus, Sus, Rhinoceros, Hippopotamus. Order VI. BELLUM. In this Order,— characterized by incisors none; canines projecting from the upper jaw only, composed of ivory ; molars few; mamma pectoral (in which the Belluae mainly differ from the Anomalopoda); feet, with connate digits forming a shapeless sole;—Pallas in- cludes the genera Elephas and Rosmarus, re- jecting therefrom the Trichecus or Manatee, as having the hind-feet coalescing with the tail, and therefore more rightly to be referred to the Cetaceous Order. In this latter view Cuvier agrees with Pallas. As to the rest it is scarcely necessary to say that the tusks of the Elephant differ from those of the Walrus in being im- planted in the inter-maxillary bones instead of the maxillaries, and are therefore regarded as incisors. Order VII. CETACEA. Pallas observes that since the Cetacea differ from the other Lactantia chiefly in having their boneless posterior extremities blended with the cartilaginous tail (" quod artus posticos exosses, in caitdam cartilaginibus fultam co- adunalos obtinent"), the Manatus and Trichechus rightly fall under this Order, although they ap- proach more to the nature of Quadrupeds. Both the Manatus proper and the Rytina, which is the Manatus Borealis of Pallas, agree, however, with the true Cetacea in having no other rudiments of posterior extremities than some small pelvic bones. We shall now proceed to the arrangement of the Mammalia proposed by Cuvier in the last edition (1829) of the ' Regne Animal and this is the more interesting, as, in giving the outline of his method, he developes the principles on which the divisions of the class are founded. " The characters by which Mammalia differ most essentially one from another are derived from the organs of touch, from which results their degree of dexterity, and from the organs of mastication, which determine the nature of their food; and, as a corollary to these, de- pends not only every thing which is connected with the digestive functions, but a variety of other circumstances relative even to their de- grees of intelligence. " The perfection of the organs of touch is estimated by the number and mobility of the digits, and the extent to which they are inclosed in a claw or in a hoof. A hoof which com- pletely incloses that part of the digit which touches the ground, precludes the exercise of it as an organ of touch or of prehension. The opposite extreme is where the nail, in the form of a simple lamina, covers only one side of the end of the digit, leaving the other side in pos- session of all its delicacy of tact. " The kind of food is indicated by the molar teeth, to the form of which the arti- culation of the jaws invariably corresponds. " For cutting flesh, the molar teeth must be trenchant and serrated ; and the jaws fitted to- gether, so as to move like the blades of a pair of scissors, simply opening and closing in the vertical direction. " For bruising grains and roots, the molar teeth must have flattened crowns, and the jaws a horizontal motion : and further, that the grind- ing surface may be always unequal, like a millstone, the teeth must be composed of sub- stances of different degrees of density, and con- sequently wearing down in different proportions. " The ungulate quadrupeds are all of neces- sity herbivorous, or with flat-crowned molars (fig. 59), because the conformation of their feet does not permit them to seize living prey. Fig. 59. Lower jaw, African Elephant. " The unguiculate animals are susceptible of more variety. They are not limited to one kind of food ; and, besides the consequent variation in the form of their molars, they differ ma- terially from each other in the mobility and sensibility of their digits. There is, more- over, a characteristic which prodigiously in-