OPTIC NERVES. 779 to his own account, "the eye of the rabbit on sudden exposure to the sun's rays, after the fifth pair had been divided, was still sensible to strong solar light; and the effect was more marked when a lens was used to test its sensibility." Mayo's experiments on pigeons afford still more convincing proof of the ability of the optic nerve, unaided by the fifth, to maintain the special sensibility of the eye ; this physio- logist succeeded in dividing the fifth nerve within the cranium of a living pigeon (leaving the optic uninjured,) without rendering the retina insensible to light. The results of pathological observations on man furnish also abundant evidence that vision may continue after disease has destroyed the fifth nerve. Opportunities do not often occur of bringing this to the test of dissection, for in most of these cases changes of structure involve other parts of the nervous centres simultane- ously with the fifth nerve, and so deprive them of their greatest value; and the destructive in- flammation of the eye-ball, which so constantly accompanies morbid alterations of the fifth pair, is another fruitful source of embarrassment in attempts to investigate their history, but even a few well-attested observations are amply sufficient to establish a negative proof. Muller cites a case of disease involving the whole trunk of the fifth nerve of the left side, in which insensibility of the entire left side of the head and the corresponding side of the tongue and eye, occurred, while vision remained perfect; and in the article Fifth Pair of Nerves, other similar examples are related. The conjecture that the fifth pair is essential to vision receives probably its strongest support from the occasional results of injuries to cer- tain branches of that nerve, for numerous cases are on record in which wounds or con- tusions of its frontal twigs have been fol- lowed by blindness, and the same unfortu- nate event has resulted (though rarely) from irritations affecting some of its other branches. Thus, Mr. Travers has known amaurosis to originate from irritation of the dental nerves. He says, " I have seen an incipient amaurosis arrested by the extraction of a diseased tooth, when the delay of a similar operation had occasioned gutta serena on the opposite side two years before." And Professor Galenzowski of Wilna " observed severe neuralgia and blindness produced by a splinter of wood be- coming entangled in a diseased tooth, and these symptoms were cured by the extraction of the tooth together with the offending material." The value of such facts as these in assisting physiologists to determine the influence exerted by the fifth nerve over vision, appears to have been much overrated ; for in a large proportion of these cases it may be inferred with e;reat pro- bability that the same injury which affected the supra-orbital nerves exerted also pernicious in- fluence on the deeper seated contents of the orbit, and that the optic nerve, or retina, or even the brain itself participated in the effects of the vio- lence, although from the more superficial posi- tion and greater exposure to danger of the frontal branches of the fifth, they alone were believed to have suffered. This explanation will undoubt- edly not apply to cases in which blindness has been produced by very trivial injuries, such as simple incised wounds or punctures of the nerves in question ; but nevertheless the weight of evidence which these latter cases would seem to afford is much diminished by the consideration that loss of sight has likewise ensued from inju- ries and affections of other nerves, to which, while healthy, no participation in the support of vision can be conceded. For example, Dr. Jacob recites the case of an officer in whom amaurosis occurred in consequence of injury inflicted by a ball on some branches of the portio dura ;* and irritations in the digestive organs (dyspeptic disturbance of the stomach more especially) are well known to produce at times amaurotic symptoms. Now, although these facts un- questionably establish the existence of curious pathological affinities between the nerves of the part thus irritated and those which are subser- vient to vision, no physiologist would be hardy enough to infer from such premises that the facial nerve, the par vagum, or those which supply the intestinal tract, exercise in the normal state any control over the faculty of sight. If, in addition to these considerations, it be recollected that blindness occurs only as an occasional consequence of injuries to the frontal nerves, and that loss of vision is found to ensue very rarely from the irritations to which other branches of the fifth are so peculiarly liable, the importance of such cases in determining the question must be still further lessened. The observations of Dr. Jacob on this sub- ject appear to the writer so apposite that he is induced to insert them. This gentle- man writes, " Blindness does not seem to have followed any of the operations formerly so much practised of dividing the branches of this nerve, and in some of the worst cases of that form of neuralgia called tic douloureux, vision is not impaired. Moreover, thousands of children suffer from dentition and thousands of adults from tooth-ache, yet none of these become blind in consequence."f The coincidence of loss of sight with injuries or irritations affecting branches of the fifth nerve, admits of explanation on other principles without assuming the fifth to be essential to vision ; the hypothesis that in such cases reflex irritation becomes propagated from the parts pri- marily affected through the nervous centres to the optic nerve, seems in the present state of physiological science sufficiently plausible; for while it applies to cases of amaurosis resulting from abnormal conditions of other peripheral branches of the nerve as well as its ophthalmic division, it also affords a solution of the still more obscure dependence of the same disease on irritations in remote organs. The experiments of Magendie, confirmed as they have been by pathological observations, * Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, art. AMAU- ROSIS. t On Paralytic Neuralgia and other Nervous Diseases of the Eye, by Arthur Jacob, M.D.