10 INSTINCT. bubble of air, and appears like a globe of quick- silver ; with this she enters her cocoon, and displacing an equal mass of water, again ascends for a second lading, till she has suffi- ciently filled her house with it, so as to expel all the water. The males construct similar habitations by the same manoeuvres. How these little animals can envelope their abdomen with an air-bubble, and retain it till they enter their cells, is still one of Nature's mysteries that have not been explained." We need say nothing of the habitations formed by solitary animals of the higher tribes, chiefly by burrowing under ground, for their own protection and comfort; but the most curi- ous of such solitary habitations on the earth's surface are also furnished by the tribe of spiders. " Some species of spiders, M. Audouin re- marks, are gifted with a particular talent for building: they hollow out dens; they bore galleries; they elevate vaults ; they build, as it were,subterranean bridges; they construct also entrances to their habitations, and adapt doors to them, which want nothing but bolts, for without any exaggeration, they work upon a hinge and are fitted to a frame. The interior of these habitations is not less remarkable for the extreme neatness which reigns there; whatever be the humidity of the soil in which they are constructed, water never penetrates them ; the walls are nicely covered with a tapestry of silk, having usually the lustre of satin, and almost always of a dazzling white- ness. " The habitations of the species in question are found in an argillaceous kind of red earth, in which they bore tubes about three inches in depth and ten lines in width. The walls of these tubes are not left just as they are bored, but are covered with a kind of mortar, suffi- ciently solid to be easily separated from the mass that surrounds it.'' " The door that closes the apartment is still more remarkable in its structure. If the well were always open, the spider would sometimes be subject to the intru- sion of dangerous guests. Providence has there- fore instructed her to fabricate a very secure trap-door which closes the mouth of it. To judge of this door by its outward appearance, it appears to be formed of a mass of earth coarsely worked, and covered internally by a solid web, which would be sufficiently wonder- ful for an animal that seems to have no special organ for constructing it; but when divided vertically, it is found to be a much more com- plicated fabric than its outward appearance in- dicates, it being formed of more than thirty alternate layers of earth and web emboxed, as it were, in each other, like a set of weights for small scales. " If these layers of web are examined, it will be seen that they all terminate in the hinge, so that the greattr the volume of the door the more powerful is the hinge. The frame in which the tube terminates above, and to which the door is adapted, is thick, arising from the number of layers of which it consists, and which seem to correspond with those of the door; hence the formation of the door, the hinge, and the frame, seem to be a simultaneous operation ; except that in fabricating the first, the animal has to knead the earth as well as to spin the layers of web. By this admirable arrangement these parts always correspond with each other, and the strength of the hinge and the thickness of the frame will always be proportioned to the weight of the door. " The interior surface of the cover to the tube is not rough and uneven like its exterior, but perfectly smooth and even like the walls of the tube, being covered with a coating of white silk, but more firm, and resembling parchment, and remarkable for a series of minute orifices placed in the side opposite the hinge, and ar- ranged in a semicircle; there are about thirty of these orifices, the object of which, M. Au- douin conjectures, is to enable the animal to hold her door down in any case of emergency against external force, by the insertion of her claws into some of them." * But the most extraordinary habitations formed by the instincts of animals are those which are the joint result of the labours of communities; and here we observe the same difference as has been already noticed, between the inhabitants of the air and of the ocean. Many of the ani- mals that inhabit the latter are formed by na- ture, as Mr. Kirby expresses it, (and evidently with a view to the rude shocks to which they are exposed,) " into a body politic, consisting of many individuals, separate and distinct as inhabiting different cells, but still possessing a body in common, and many of them receiving benefit from the systole and diastole of a com- mon organ ; thus by a natural union is symbo- lized what in terrestrial animal communities re- sults from numerous wills uniting to effect a common object. The land, as far as I recol- lect, exhibits no instance of an aggregate animal, nor the ocean of one which, like the beaver, lemming, bee, wasp, &c. forms associations to build and inhabit a common house."f And there is a curious family, named Salpa, in which the individuals are attached to each other almost like bees in their cells at birth, and are afterwards separated when they have acquired strength; thus forming the link be- tween the aggregated sea animals (such as Co- rals, Madrepores, Sertularia, Flustra, &c.) and the associated land animals. The habitations that are formed by animals of the latter description, although in very diffe- rent parts of the scale of beings, afford equally curious evidence of skill and contrivance, and of the wills of numerous individuals, bound together by a common instinct, as surely as the materials of which the aggregate animals are composed. Take, for example, the houses of beavers. " Beavers set about building some time in the month of August: those that erect their habitations in small rivers or creeks in which the water is liable to be drained off, with won- derful sagacity provide against that evil by * Kirby, vol. ii. p. 287, ct seq. t Kirbj, vol. i. p. 222.