943 PERITONEUM. passage to the transverse portion of the duo- denum. The mesentery is the peritoneal fold that connects the small intestine to the posterior abdominal parietes, giving transit to the vessels and nerves of that part of the intestinal tube. Numerous lymphatic glands, called mesenteric glands, are also included between its layers. It is eight inches in breadth at its widest part, and narrows off towards each end, where the small intestine becomes adherent to the parietes. Its parietal attachment, as mentioned above, is only a few inches in extent, whilst its visceral border is usually twenty feet long. The ascending mesocolon, descending meso- colon, and mesocacum, when they exist, and the iliac or sigmoidcal mesocolon and mesorectum, which always exist, perform all the offices of mesenteries to those parts, respectively, of the intestinal tube which are indicated in their names. The appendices epiploic^ are numerous small masses of fat, somewhat pyriform, and having a peritoneal investment, attached along the large intestine. Their use is not known ; perhaps they serve as packing to the sacculated bowel on which they are placed. The recto-vesical folds give transit to some vesical vessels and the umbilical arteries of the foetus. The cellular tissue enclosed by them is very lax, so that they are easily unfolded by distention of the bladder. The broad ligaments of the uterus are two folds of peritoneum passing from the lateral borders of the uterus to the opposite abdominal parietes. The line of their summits is about level with that of the superior border of the unimpregnated uterus. This summit or supe- rior border of the broad ligament is defined by the Fallopian tube which it encloses; a little lower down on its posterior aspect the ovary is sessile upon it, invested in a secondary fold of its posterior layer: and the round ligament of the uterus passing between its layers from the side of the uterus to the inguinal canal carries out another little secondary fold in front of it. The broad ligament, then, and its secondary folds, enclose the ovary with its ligament, the Fallopian tube, the round ligament of the ute- rus, and the spermatic vessels and nerves. The layers of the broad ligament itself, but not those of its secondary folds, are connected together by loose areolar tissue, and are separated (the broad ligament itself becoming effaced) by the enlargement of the uterus in pregnancy. There are a pair of recto-uterine peritoneal folds in the female and a pair of vesico-uterine folds ; the former pass across from the sides of the rectum to the sides of the uterus, and repre- sent the recto-vesical folds of the male; the latter pass across from the sides of the uterus to the sides of the bladder. The layers of both pairs are very loosely connected together. There is a slight median fold and two slight lateral folds of the peritoneum lining the ante- rior abdominal parietes, converging from the fundus and sides of the bladder to the navel; they enclose the remains of the urachus and of the two umbilical arteries of the fat us. At the point corresponding with each inter- nal abdominal ring in the male subject, there is a little infundibuliform depression or dimple of the peritoneal surface ; it indicates the point from which a portion of peritoneum, being car- ried down with the testicle in its descent, was separated to form the tunica vaginalis—in the female; from the same points a cylindrical sheath of peritoneum accompanies the round ligament a little way into the inguinal canal ; this sheath has been called the canal of Nuck. With regard to our third proposition,—the SEROUS COAT AFFORDED BY THE PERITONEUM to the various viscera invests some of them completely, except along little linear spaces, imaginary rather than real, where it reaches them as mesentery, &c.: others it invests on one side only, and others again still more par- tially. The liver has an investment of peritoneum complete, except at its posterior, thick, rounded border, over a space of inconstant form be- tween the anterior and posterior layers of the coronary ligament, where the liver is in imme- diate contact with the diaphragm, the space corresponding with the gall-bladder, and along the little linear spaces where the falciform and triangular ligaments and the lesser omentum are attached to it. The gall-bladder is invested with peritoneum on its lower aspect only; that side which is presented towards the liver is in immediate contact with it. The stomach is completely invested with pe- ritoneum, except at the two little linear spaces along its curvatures, where the lesser and greater omenta are attached to it. The spleen is invested by the peritoneum completely, except at its hilus, where its vessels enter from the omentum. The first or ascending portion of the duode- num has a complete peritoneal investment, except at a little linear space along its lower aspect, where the great omentum is attached to it, so that this portion is free to move. The second, or descending portion has peritoneal investment on its anterior aspect only. The third or transverse portion is invested with pe- ritoneum along a very narrow portion of the upper, and a somewhat less narrow portion of the lower part of its anterior aspect; the whole of its posterior aspect and the middle part of its anterior are destitute of peritoneal covering, the former being adherent to the posterior abdo- minal parietes, &c, the latter corresponding with the root of the transverse mesocolon. Its upper aspect is adherent to the pancreas, which encroaches upon the upper one of the two spaces mentioned as invested with peritoneum. At the point where the duodenum is crossed by the colon, which is just where from descending it becomes transverse, the two bowels are in immediate contact, so that the duodenum is, at this point, destitute of peritoneal covering around its entire circumference. Where the superior mesenteric artery crosses the duodenum, the peritoneum is borne off from it by that vessel. The pancreas is invested with peritoneum on its anterior surface only.