NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Spinal Cord.) 653 the middle line, and that to this cause the in- distinctness of the posteiior fissure may be due. And this anatomical fact may be quoted as, in some degree, adverse to the theory which re- gards these columns as sensitive : for were they columns of sensation, it is probable that the preservation of their distinctness would have been more fully provided for. The anterior and posterior fissures, as Cru- veilhier remarks, leaving on each side a per- fectly symmetrical organ, serve to demonstrate the existence of two spinal cords, one for each side of the body, and both presenting a perfect resemblance of form and structure. There are no other fissures in the cord besides those just described. Several anato- mists regard the lines of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves as constituting distinct fissures. But a little careful examina- tion will readily convince any one that there is no real separation of the nervous substance of the cord corresponding to these lines, and that there is no anatomical indication of a sub- division into columns or segments in connexion with them. When the roots of the nerves have been removed on each side, nothing is seen but a series of foramina or depressions correspond- ing to the points of emergence of the nerve- fibres, of which the roots are composed. The most natural subdivision of the spinal cord is that which is obviously indicated by its internal structure. In examining a transverse section {fig. 376), we observe that the interior Fig. 376. of each lateral portion is occupied by grey matter, disposed somewhat in a crescentic form. The concavity of the crescent is directed out- wards: its anterior extremity is thick, and is separated from the surface of the cord by a con- siderable layer of white nervous substance. The grey matter is prolonged backwards and out- wards in the form of a narrow horn, which reaches quite to the surface of the cord, and near the surface experiences a slight enlargement. This posteiior horn constitutes, on each side, a natural boundary between the two columns of which each lateral half of the cord consists. All that is situate in front of the posterior horns is called the antero-lateral column, and this com- prehends the white matter forming the sides and front of the semi-cord, limited anteriorly by the anterior fissure and posteriorly by the posterior roots of the nerves. The posterior column is situate behind the posterior horn of grey matter, and is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the posterior fissure. According to this view, then, the spinal cord will be found to consist of four columns, between which an obvious line of demarca- tion exists throughout the whole length of the organ. These are two antero-lateral columns and two posterior columns. The former con- stitute by far the largest proportion of the white substance of the cord, and they envelope the anterior obtuse portion or horn of the grey matter. The white commissure at the bottom of the anterior fissure unites them. The anterior roots of the nerves are connected with them, and the posterior roots adhere to them when the cord is split up along the plane of the pos- terior horn. The posterior columns are small, in section triangular, placed in apposition with each other by their inner surfaces. Their apices are directed forwards, and their bases, which are slightly curvilinear, backwards. No distinct commissure of white fibres can be detected uniting these columns, save, perhaps, in the lumbar region. The connexion of the posterior roots of the nerves with them must necessarily be very slight, as they invariably separate from them in the longitudinal splitting of the cord. The arrangement of the grey matter in the cord, as already partly explained, is as follows: In each lateral half there is a portion of grey matter, which is crescentic in form, having its concavity directed outwards and its convexity inwards towards its fellow of the opposite side. The anterior extremity or horn of the crescent is thick and roundish, and its margin has a jagged or serrated appearance, which is more conspicuous in some situations than in others. The posterior horn is directed backwards and a little outwards: it reaches the surface of the cord, and near its posterior extremity it presents a swollen or enlarged portion, which differs in colour and consistence from the rest of the crescent, being somewhat paler and softer. This portion of grey matter has been called by Rolando substantia cinerea gelatinosa. It is that part of the grey matter which appears to be more immediately connected with the pos- terior roots of the nerves. There is an exact symmetry between the grey crescents of opposite sides, and they are united by means of the grey commissure, a layer which extends between the two crescentic portions, being attached very nearly to the central point of each. This commissure, then, when examined in its length, forms a vertical plane of grey matter, extending throughout the whole of the cord. The lateral portions are solid masses of grey matter, with which the nerve-tubes of the white substance freely inter- mingle, and in which, as in the grey matter elsewhere, very numerous bloodvessels ramify. There seem to be no good grounds for the opi- nion advanced by Mayo that these crescentic portions are hollow capsules. It was supposed by this anatomist that each crescent resembled the dentated body in the cerebellum or that in the corpus olivare ; but careful examination must convince any one who takes the trouble of it that such is not the fact. It is true that the grey matter contains white fibres, but they mingle with its elements and are not enclosed within a layer of it, as described and delineated by Mayo. When sections of the spinal cord in different regions are examined, they are found to exhibit differences of dimensions affecting both the white