306 MA11SUPIAL1A. Wagner, (Meeker's Liter'arische Annalen, Fe- bruarheft, 1834,) but also in works in our own language, as in Hodgkin's Translation of Ed- wards's Influence of Physical Agents on Life, Appendix, p. 438, 1832, have rendered the fact sufficiently familiar. But the connection of this well-known appearance with the mode of formation or multiplication of the blood par- ticles had not before attracted the attention it seemed to deserve; on this subject I have else- where remarked : " In some of the granulated blood-discs of the Perameles the subdivisions producing that appearance were fewer and larger, and were separated by deeper clefts than I had before observed; they suggested to me the idea that the blood-disc was under- going a spontaneous subdivision into smaller vesicles, and, although my observations are not at present sufficiently numerous to warrant the hypothesis that the development of smaller ve- sicles within itself is a normal property of the ordinary coloured vesicle or blood-disc, yet the obscurity which still hangs over the origin and reproduction of the blood-discs, and the unex- pected constancy of the granulated form in a greater or less proportion of them while recent, and floating in the serum, in different species of animals examined by me, makes me unwilling to suppress any idea naturally arising out of such observations and likely to be suggestive of examination of the same appearances by other microscopical observers."* The general form of the blood-vesicles of the Perameles is the usual circular flattened disc: they presented a greater variety of size than in the Daysurus, but upon the whole a larger average diameter, viz. gjljgth of an English inch. Phalunghta Vulpina.—Average diameter of blood-disc 5755th inch. Petuurus sciurevs.—Ditto ditto 3955th inch. Macropus penicillatus.—Do. do. ^^th inch. Macropus major.—Ditto ditto ^^th inch. Phascolomi/s Vombatus.—Do. do. 3S55th inch. The results of the present observations on the blood of the Marsupial quadrupeds cor- respond generally with those obtained from the placental Mammalia, inasmuch as the blood- cliscs of the species which derives its nutriment from the greatest variety of organized substances, as the Perameles, which subsists on insects, worms, and the farinaceous and succulent ve- getables, are larger than those of the strictly carnivorous Dasyure, and of the herbivorous Kangaroo, the blood-discs of the latter, like those of the placental Ruminant, being the smallest, though not in the same proportion. In each natural group of Marsupialia there is a direct relation between the size of the blood- disc and that of the species. Heart.—The heart is inclosed in a pericar- dium, and situated in the same relation to the lungs, mediastinum, and thoracic cavity as in the Rodent and most other mammiferous quad- * Medical Gazette, 1839, 1. c. My hypothesis has received a certain degree of confirmation by the subsequently published observations on the division of the corpuscles of the blood by Mr. Quekett, (iVTed. Gazette, January, 1840,) and by Dr. Martin Barry, Philos. Trans. 1840, p. 595. rupeds. It offers no peculiarity in its general outward form. The apex is less obtuse in some species, as the Phalanger and Wombat, than in others, as the Kangaroo. The serous layer of the pericardium is reflected upon the large vessels near to the heart. The fibrous layer of the pericardium adheres to the sternum in the Kangaroo. The appendix of the right auricle is always divided into two angular pro- cesses, (a, a, figs. 131 and 132,) one in front and the other behind the trunk of the aorta. Fig. 131. Heart of the Kangaroo. Besides this characteristic modification of its external form, the right auricle presents some still more essentially marsupial conditions in its interior. There is no trace, for example, of a ' fossa ovalis' or an ' annulus ovalis in any marsupial animal;* and the absence of these structures, which are present in the heart of all the placental Mammalia, doubtless re- lates to the very brief period during which the auricles intercommunicate in the Marsupials, and to the minute size, and in other respects incompletely developed state, at which the young marsupial animal respires air by the lungs, and has the mature condition of the pulmonary circulation established. The right and left auricles intercommunicate by an oblique fissure in the uterine embryo of the Kangaroo, when two-thirds of the period of gestation is past, but every trace of this foetal structure is obliterated in the subsequent growth of the heart; so that in the mature animal the wide terminal orifice of the posterior cava is * Physiological Catalogue, Mus. Royal College of Surgeons, 4to. vol. ii. p. 52.