OSSEOUS TISSUE. 850 have to be considered in relation to their num- ber, their size, and the parts which they contain. The number of canals in a given space is perhaps a little variable, but this variation will be regulated in some degree by the situation of the bone, but more especially by the age of the bone. Thus the transverse section of the femur of a human fetus of seven months will present many more canals than a section of equal mea- surement from the femur of an adult. In certain fish of which the Scarus is a spe- cimen, the Haversian canals are extremely nu- merous, so that bone cells become unnecessary, lor here we find very few indeed, and in some sections none. (Fig. 451.) Fig. 451. Section of bone from the Scarus, showing that, where the Hauersiun canals are very numerous the hone cells are absent. The size of the Haversian canals takes a con- siderable range, varying from the g^rd to the ji;th of an inch, as stated by Mr. Smee. In the young subject they seem larger than in the old. But by far the most marked difference in size of these canals is to be observed in the antlers of the stag at different periods of their growth. At an early period of the existence of the antler, the vascular canals are large and numerous, while at the time of their completion in size the canals are less numerous in an equal space, and very small: indeed many seem all but obliterated. The density of bone is pro- duced more by the small size of the canals than by their comparative infrequency, though un- doubtedly they are less frequent in the compact bone, as that composing the shafts of long bones. In tracing individual canals, it will be found that the majority maintain the same size as far as we can follow them. This is not, however, observable in all. If a large canal be taken where it first enters the substance of the bone, it may be found giving off branches from time to time in various directions, and then again sending off smaller branches, which anastomose freely with each other, often joining at right angles. Although it is very easy to trace a large canal pervading a bone, and then dividing from time to time into smaller ones, I have never been able to satisfy myself that these small canals again unite to form a second large canal, and thus to leave the bone. I am therefore led to the opinion that such does not occur, but that the small even-sized canals open and give exit to their vessels upon the surface of the bone generally, while the large canals give entrance to arteries. The Haversian canals undoubtedly give pas- sage to bloodvessels, which is their principal, if not their only purpose. Whether they con- tain one or more vessels seems to admit of a little doubt. Dr. Carpenter, in his work on Physiology, states that they contain an artery and vein. From my own observation I am not able to confirm his view. Indeed I am disposed to the opinion that they give passage to one vessel only; that the larger canals which are found entering the bone convey an artery ; that it divides from time to time after the manner of the canals described ; and that the vessels emerge again from the surface of the bone as capillaries. This branch of the subject requires some further investigation. The fore- going observations apply only to dense bone. Where bone is cancellated for the reception of fat, the vessels occupy but a small space in the cancelli. Of the corpuscles or cells of bone; also called lacuna by Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.—■ The so-called corpuscles are nothing more than small cells existing in the substance of the tissue, and might with propriety be called bone cells. Some anatomists have designated them Fig, 452. Section of a flat bone, showing the bone cells in the granular tissue. calcigerous cells, from the supposition that they contain in their interior an amorphous salt of lime. That this view is incorrect will be subsequently shown. The cells cannot be described as having any definite unvarying shape or size. The general form is a com- pressed oval, though not unfrequently they are circular, but flattened from side to side. Again, they are sometimes almost triangular in their outline, while in other instances they approach a linear shape. These are the most common va- rieties of outline to which the bone cells are sub- ject ; as they occur in the bones of man and the higher animals. But connected with the cells are numerous delicate branching tubes, which are slightly dilated as they enter the cells. The number arising from each cell does not allow