378 MONOTREMATA. supporting the innermost digit or pollex, the trapezoides (g), the index, the os magnum (J'), which is almost the smallest, sustaining the medius, and the unciforme (e) the two outer digits: this description is taken from the Echidna: the only essential difference obser- vable in the Ornithorhynchus is the contribu- tion by the os magnum of a greater share to the articulation with the ring-finger. In the Echidna all the bones of the fore- extremity are relatively larger and stronger than in the Ornithorhynchus, but this dif- ference is especially remarkable in the meta- carpal bones and two first rows of phalanges Jig. 176, /?, i, k), which are singularly short, broad, and thick. The palm is strengthened by two large sesamoids developed in the flexor tendons in the Echidna; these are sometimes confluent (jig- 175, /). The number of pha- langes in both Monotremes is the same as in other Mammals, viz. two to the thumb and three to each of the fingers. This is not the case in any Saurian, and the retention of the Mammalian type at the peripheral segment of the limb, with the singular deviation from it at the central supporting arch, is not one of the least remarkable points in the osteology of the Monotremes. There is a sesamoid bone at the palmar aspect of each of the distal articulations of the phalanges in the Echidna (fig. 175), and at all the digital articulations in the Ornithorhynchus (Jig. 173, u,d). Fig. 176. Bones of the fore-foot, Echidna hystrix. ( Cuvier.) The ungual phalanges are long, depressed, nearly straight, of great strength in the Echidna, in which each of them is perforated at the palmar aspect (Jig. 175). Of the pelvic extremities.—The pelvis of the Monotremes bears a resemblance to that of Reptiles in the length of time during which the three components of each os innominatum remain distinct, especially in the Echidna; and in the great development of the ilio-pectineal spine, which equals in size that of the tortoise, in the Ornithorhynchus; the pelvis of the Echidna resembles that of Birds in the perfo- ration of the acetabulum (Jig. 177, g), but the pelvis in both Monotremes chiefly resembles that of the higher implacental Mammalia in the presence of the marsupial bones. Fig. 177. Internal vieiv of pelvis, Echidna setosa. ( Original.) The ilium (Jig. 177, a) is a short, strong, trihedral bone, with the upper extremity ex- panded and everted in the Ornithorhynchus. The ischium (6) has its tuberosity prolonged backwards in an obtusely-pointed form in the Ornithorhynchus. The pubis in the same animal, besides having the spinous process directed forwards, gives off a second smaller process, which projects outwards; this process is present, but less developed in the Echidna (Jig. 177, f). The pubis (c) and ischium con- tribute an equal share to the formation of the foramen obturatorium (A) and to the symphysis which closes the pelvis below: the symphysis is relatively shorter in the Echidna (d) than in the Ornithorhynchus. The marsupial bones (Jig. 173, a, x x, 177, e) are relatively larger and stronger in the Mono- tromes than in the ordinary Marsupialia, the Koala excepted; their base extends along the anterior margin of the pubis from the symphysis outwards to that of the spinous process (fig. 177, f); they are relatively longer in the Echidna (c) than in the Ornithorhynchus; they always remain moveably articulated with the brim of the pelvis. The femur is short, broad, and flattened; its head rises, like that of the humerus, from the middle of a broad expanded proximal end, having on each side a strong process, the outer one representing the great, the inner one the small trochanter. In the Echidna a project- ing ridge extends from the great or outer tro- chanter beyond the middle of the bone ; the whole of the inner part of the shaft is bounded by a trenchant edge ; both outer and inner margins of the bone are trenchant in the Ornithorhynchus. The distal end of the femur is expanded transversely, but compressed from before backwards. The rotular trochlea is flat