PISCES. 1009 ovary is distinct from the oviduct, as in the three higher classes of Vertebrata. When the ovules are not developed,* the ovary of the Sharks forms a thick oval lamina slightly notched or concave upon its inner border, sus- pended upon each side of the vertebral column at the very anterior extremity of the abdominal cavity, from which point it is prolonged back- wards for a greater or less extent. The inferior and internal surface of this lamina, that by which the' ovaria would touch each other if approximated, presents no prominences, but is of a uniform milk-white colour. The posterior surface of the organ has the same appearance, Fig. 538. Viscera of female Shark, after Hunter, a, skin; b, cut pectoral and pelvic arches; c, heart; h, ccecal appendage to intestine ; n, ovary ; q, oviduct ; r, ute- rine portion of oviduct; s, s, termination of oviducts in clo- aca! cavity ; t, papilla on which the ureters open. * Cuvier, Lemons d'Anatomie Comparcc, tom.viii. 1846. vol. hi. except that upon the anterior half or two-thirds of the ovary little rounded eminences of dif- ferent sizes are perceptible, the smallest of which are pearl-white, while the larger are of an opaque-yellow colour; these are the ovules in process of developement from the proligerous stratum of the ovary, which gradually increase in size as they advance towards maturity, and project through the upper surface of the ovary. This latter expands itself in the form of a cap- sule over the ovules in such a manner that as their developement increases they become de- tached from each other, and separating them- selves more and more become at length racemose. The remainder of the ovarian lamina retains its soft, milky, homogeneous ap- pearance, which is very characteristic, and resembles very closely one portion of the testis of the male. In many of the viviparous Sharks, that portion of the ovary only which does not form eggs is met with upon one (generally the left) side of the body, whilst upon the opposite the organ attains its full developement. The general disposition of the rest of the generative apparatus is well shewn in the accompanying figure (fig. 538) of the sexual organs of the female Dog-fish, (Spina.v acanthias, Cuv.,) taken from one of the admirable drawings left by John Hunter, and engraved in the Cata- logue of the Hunterian Museum. The ovary («) presents ovisacs in dif- ferent stages of developement attached by a duplicalure of peritoneum to the side of the spine, immediately below the liver and oesophagus. The anterior orifi- ces of the ov iducts (q, q) are situated close together above the liver; their coats, which are at first thin and mem- branous, gradually increase in thickness, and about four inches from the orifice become suddenly thickened by the addi- tion of a laminated glandular structure ; this is, however, much less developed in the present viviparous species than in the oviparous cartilaginous Fishes, and the size of the oviduct continued from the glandular part more nearly corre- sponds with that of the preceding por- tion than in the oviparous races. Be- yond the glandular portion the oviduct gradually increases in diameter, having its lining membrane thrown into longi- tudinal plicae, until suddenly it dilates into a wide uterine portion (r), in which, in the viviparous Sharks, the young are retained after the eggs are hatched, until they are fit for exclusion in a living state. In the dilated uterine portion the lining membrane is gathered in close longitudinal folds, and their free mar- gins, which are beautifully wavy, contain each a vessel, which follows the sinuosi- ties of the fold, and sends off branches to the parietes of the oviduct. To- wards the terminations of the oviducts 3 x