NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 613 matter of which they are composed appears more dense and opaque in its texture.* Fig. 349. Ventral nervous cord of Mormo maura (perfect state), magnified to about twice the natural size. a, infra-cesophageal ganglion, b, large thoracic ganglia, c, c, c, small abdominal ganglia. In Insects we observe a remarkable corre- spondence between the disposition of the ner- vous system and the form of the animal, and this is conspicuous not only in the adult but also in the larva state. Indeed the changes which take place in the arrangement of the nervous system as the creature passes from its immature to its mature condition, are sufficient to indicate that the same law which influences that alteration of form, promotes the adaptation of the nervous system to it; and yet, notwith- standing its apparent complication, the nervous system of insects has the same physiological signification as that of Mollusks. A cephalic ganglion, with which are united the nerves of the organs of sense, is so connected with the remaining ganglions, that its influence can ex- tend throughout the whole system. Each seg- ment is provided with a ganglion, which has no power beyond the limits of the segment, and which cannot act consentaneously with its fellows, except under the direction of the ce- phalic ganglion. The pedal ganglion of Mol- lusca is in insects represented by the aggregate of these ganglia of the segments, which are also doubtless the centres of the respiratory actions. And those nerves which, arising from the cephalic ganglion, are distributed to the digestive organs, the stomato-gastric nerves, are analogous to the sympathetic or to the vagus. [It has been supposed by some anatomists that a distinct isolation of motor and sensitive function occurs in the ganglionic and non-gan- glionic cords of the abdominal nervous chain of * This is, however, but a rough sketch of the interesting changes that take place in the nervous system during the progre s of the insect from its larva to its peifect s ata. Those wl.o are interested in the matter, 1 beg leave to refer to Mr. Newport's highly valuable pap r. where, a* I have before ob- served, the changes of the Sphinx ligustri are de- tailed with minute accuracy. Sec also lNSliCTA. insects, as well as of other Articulata. (See Jig. 411, art. Insecta, vol. ii. p. 952.) But there are many objections to this hypothesis, which, indeed, must be regarded as quite un- tenable. It has been founded upon the anato- mical fact, which is true as regards the verte- brata, that sensitive nerves have ganglions while the motor ones are devoid of them. But it is going too far to compare nerves and centres, and to argue from the nerves of vertebrata re- specting the centres of Invertebrata. More- over, as Prof. Owen remarks, the presence of ganglia on the sensitive roots of spinal nerves is not their constant character. This hypo- thesis also received some support from a doc- trine which was countenanced by Bell, namely, that the columns of the spinal cord of verte- brata corresponded in function with that of the roots of the nerves, the anterior columns being motor as the anterior roots were, and the poste- rior columns and roots being sensitive. But this doctrine is utterly without foundation, as will be shewn in a subsequent part of this article. Prof. Owen adduces an important fact respecting two nearly allied Crustacea, which further inva- lidates the supposed difference of function of the ganglionic and non-ganglionic columns. " In the lobster (dstacm) and in the hermit-crab (Pagurus) we have two opposite conditions of a large and important part of the trunk. In the lobster the abdomen or tail is encased in a series of calcareous rings forming a hard and insensible chain armour, but as it is almost the exclusive organ by which the animal swims, it enjoys considerable motor power, a large por- tion of the muscular system being devoted to it. In the hermit-crab, on the other hand, the mus- cular system is almost abrogated in the long abdomen, for this in fact takes no share in the locomotive functions of the body: it is occu- pied by part of the alimentary canal and by glandular organs : the sensibility of the external integument is not impaired or destroyed by the deposition of calcareous particles in its tissue, but it retains the necessary faculty of testing the smooth and unirritating condition of the inner surface of the deserted shell which the animal chooses for its abode: minute acetabula are developed in groups upon this sensitive integument, to which also delicate ciliated pro- cesses are attached. The muscular system is reduced to a few minute fasciculi of fibres regu- lating the action of the small terminal claspers. Now," adds Professor Owen, " if, as has been conjectured, the ganglionic enlargements of the abdominal cords monopolize the sensorial func- tions, and the non-ganglionic tracts the motor powers, we ought to find the nerves, which supply the muscles of tail constructed almost exclusively for locomotion, to be derived from non-ganglionic columns; whilst in the tail, which is almost as exclusively sensitive, the ganglions ought to have been large and nume- rous for the supply of nerves to the integument. The contrary, however, is the fact; six well- developed ganglions distribute nerves to the muscular fibres of the lobster's tail; non-gan- glionic columns supply the sensitive tail of the