374 MONOTREMATA. in a pointed form along the outer side of the facial fork as far as the nasal does on the inner side, and an angular fissure is intercepted between the anterior extremities of these bones into which the pointed posterior part of the inter- maxillary bone (Jig. 172, 0,0) is inserted. The anterior half of the facial fork with its inflected end is wholly formed by the intermaxillary bones, which thus bound the anterior half of the wide external nasal aperture. The small detached intermediate bone (Jig. 173, a, b) may be regarded as a separate centre of ossification of the palatine process of the intermaxillaries, and of the middle stem which divides the ante- rior nostrils in birds and lizards. The vomer forms a bony septum, dividing the whole extent of the nasal canal from the spine of the sphenoid forwards. There is a small lachrymal foramen (Jig. 169,1) at the anterior and inner part of the orbit in both the genera of Monotremes; a little lower down is the commencement of the ant-orbital canal. This canal branches in the Echidna, and terminates on the outer side of the maxillary bone by a succession of small foramina; but in the Ornithorhynchus, where it transmits a much larger sensitive nerve, it divides into three canals, of which one emerges beneath the uncinated process of the maxillary above mentioned ; a second descends and opens upon the palate; and the third passes forwards into the substance of the facial fork, and termi- nates by a Large foramen at the outside of the intermaxillary bone. On the exterior of the cranium the ridges indicating the extent of the temporal muscles are clearly developed in the Ornithorhynchus, and correspond with the stronger zygomata and the more complete apparatus for mastication in this Monotreme. Four linear impressions upon the upper surface of the skull diverge from the middle of the lambdoidal ridge, and terminate at the temporal ridges. The occipital foramen (fig. 173, c) has a vertical plane, as in the Echidna, and has a similar rounded notch at its upper part. The interior of the skull offers many unusual modifications. The sella turcica is elongated and narrow in both Monotremes ; it is bounded by two very distinct lateral walls in the Echidna. The posterior clinoid processes are chiefly remarkable for their height in the Ornitho- rhynchus. The semicircular canals stand out in high relief in this species, as in Birds. In the Echidna the ethmoid encroaches upon the anterior part of the cranial cavity in the form of a large convex protuberance made by the posterior wall of the olfactory cavity, and a very extensive cribriform plate is developed. In the Ornithorhynchus the olfactory tract is comparatively small, in the form of a depres- sion, and the nerve escapes by a single foramen at the anterior part of the ethmoidal plate. This is likewise an interesting mark of affinity to the bird and reptile; but the most remark- able and characteristic feature in the interior of the skull of the Ornithorhynchus is the bony falx (fig. 173, b). This is not present in the Echidna. The tentorium is membranous in both Monotremes. The lower jaw consists in the Echidna of two long and slender styliform rami without a symphysial joint, but loosely connected together at their anterior extremities. An angular pro- cess divides the horizontal from the ascending ramus, which rises at an open angle and ter- minates in a small oblong convex condyle. A short obtuse coronoid process extends from the upper part of the horizontal ramus as far in advance of the angle as the condyle is behind it. The rest of the ramus is rounded like a rib, and diminishes to the anterior extremity. The dental canal commences below the coronoid process and divides in its progress, one branch terminating near the middle of the smooth alveolar border, the other close to the end of the ramus. In no Mammiferous animal does the lower jaw bear so small a proportion to the skull or to the rest of the skeleton as in the Echidna. In the Ornithorhynchus the lower jaw is much more developed (Jig. 173, e). Each ramus commences posteriorly by a large sub- hemispherical condyle, the convexity of which, so characteristic of the Mammalian class, is strongly marked. The ascending ramus is nearly horizontal, flattened below, and con- tinued upwards in the form of a low vertical compressed plate, on each side of which there is a deep fossa. The ascending is continued by a gentle curve into the horizontal ramus, and the angle of the jaw is very feebly indicated. The horizontal ramus suddenly expands and sends off above in the same transverse line two short obtuse processes, both of which might be termed ' coronoid;' this structure is peculiar to the Ornithorhynchus. The inner- most process (c), although the largest, is the superadded structure, as it affords insertion to the internal pterygoid. About two lines anterior to these processes the upper border of the horizontal ramus expands to form the shallow oblong alveolus (e) for the horny grinder. Its floor is perforated by several large foramina. The dental canal divides; one branch opens by a wide elliptical foramen on the outside of the ramus immediately anterior to the alveolus, the other terminates at the lower part of the end of the ramus. The rami of the jaw con- verge and are united at a symphysis of more than half an inch in length; there they become expanded and flattened, then again disunite, and are continued forwards as two spatulate processes (b), which diverge from each other to their broad rounded terminations, and are situated just behind the inflected extremities of the similarly separated inter-maxillaries (Jig. 173, a, c, cj. On the outer sides of the upper surface of the broad symphysis are the long and narrow sockets of the two anterior trenchant horny teeth. The Monotremes differ from the Marsupials in the absence of the inflected pro- cess developed from the angle of the lower jaw. Of the vertebral column.-—Both Monotremes have twenty-six true vertebra;, of which the seven first are cervical. In the Echidna sixteen, and in the Ornithorhynchus seventeen, of the