272 MARSUPIALIA. meles and Potoroos the sphenoid aire do not reach the parietals. There is little to notice in the parietal bones except the obliteration of the sagittal suture in those species in which a bony crista is deve- loped in the corresponding place. They pre- sent a singularly flattened form in the Wombat, in an aged skull of which, and in a similar one in the Kangaroo, I observe a like obliteration of the sagittal suture. In the Kangaroo, Potoroo, Petaurus, Phalanger, and Myrme- cobius there is a triangular inter-parietal bone. The corresponding bone I find in three pieces in the skull of a Wombat. The frontal bones are chiefly remarkable for their anterior expansion and the great share which they take in the formation of the nasal cavity. In the Thylacine the part of the cranium occupied by the frontal sinuses exceeds in breadth the cerebral cavity, from which it is divided by a constriction. The coronal suture presents in most of the Marsupials an irregular angular course, forming a notch in the frontals on each side which receives a corresponding triangular process of each parietal bone : this form of the suture is least pronounced in the Acrobates and Myrmecobius. A process cor- responding to the posterior frontal augments the bony boundary of the orbit in the Thylacine, the Ursine Dasyure, and in a slighter degree in the Virginian Opossum ; it is relatively most developed in the skull of the Myrmecobius J'asciatus, where the orbit is large; but the bony boundary of the orbit is not complete in any of the Marsupials. In the Myrmecobius there is a deep notch at the middle of the supra-orbital ridge. A corresponding but shallower notch is present in the skull of Petaurus sciureus. 1 have found the frontal suture obliterated in old specimens of the Thylacine, the Virginian Opossum, Cook's Pha- langer, the taguanoid, and yellow-bellied Pe- taurists; but the frontal suture exists in Petaurus Sciur.eiis, Acrobales, and other Marsupials. The inter-orbital space is concave in the Pha- langers and in the Petaurus Taguanoides, but is quite flat in the other Petaurists. The lachrymal bones vary in their relative size in different Marsupialia. In the Koala they extend upon the face about a line beyond the anterior boundary of the orbit, and at this part they present a groove with one large and two or three small perforations. In the Wom- bat their extent upon the face is slightly in- creased ; it is proportionally greater in the Kangaroos, Potoroos, Phalangers, Petaurists, and Dasyures, in which this part of the lachrymal bone presents two perforations close to the orbit. In the Thylacine, besides the two external holes there is a large perforation within the orbital margin. This carnivorous Marsupial, as compared with the Wolf, pre- sents a greater extent of the facial portion of the lachrymal hone, and thus indicates its inferior type. In the Myrmecobius the lachry- mal bone exhibits its greatest relative develop- ment. The malar bones are very strong and of great extent in almost all the Marsupialia. They are least developed in Acrobates, Myrme- cobius, and Pcrameles lagotis. In the latter the malar bone presents a singular form, being bifurcate at both extremities: the processus zygomaticus maxillte superioris is wedged into the cleft of the anterior fork; the correspond- ing process of the temporal bone fills up the posterior notch; the lower division of this bifurcation is the longest, and in all the Mar- supialia enters into the composition of the articular surface for the lower jaw, except in the Petaurists, where it just falls short of this part. The anterior bifurcation of the malar bone is not present in the Marsupials generally; the external malo-maxillary suture forms an oblique and almost straight line in the Wombat, Phalanger, Opossum, Dasyures, and Kangaroo. Owing to the inferior development of the zygo- matic process of the superior maxillary in the Wombat, the malar bone is not suspended in the zygomatic arch in this Marsupial as in the placental Rodentia. It is also of relatively much larger size and of a prismatic form, arising from the development of the oblique external ridge above described. In the Kan- garoos, Potoroos, Great Petaurus, and Pha- langers it is traversed externally by a ridge showing the extent of attachment of the masseter; in the Koala the ridge extends along the malar bone near the upper margin, and the surface below presents a well-marked excava- tion. The nasal bones vary in their form and rela- tive size in the different genera; they are longest and narrowest in the Perameles, shortest and broadest in the Koala. Their most charac- teristic structure is the expansion of their upper and posterior extremity, which is well marked in the Wombat, Myrmecobius, Petaurists, Phalangers, Opossums and Dasyures. In the Potoroos the anterior extremities of the nasal bones converge to a point which pro- jects beyond the inter-maxillaries. In some Petaurists and Perameles the corresponding- points reach as far as the inter-maxillaries, and in a skull of the Perameles lagotis I have found the bony case of the nasal passages to be further increased by the presence of two small rostral bones, resulting, as in the Hog, from ossification of the nasal cartilage. The inter-maxillary bones always contain teeth, and the ratio of the development of these bones corresponds with the bulk of the dental apparatus which they support. They are con- sequently largest in the Wombat, where they extend far upon the side of the face and are articulated to a considerable proportion of the nasal bones, but do not, as in the placental Rodentia, reach the frontal or divide the maxillary bone from the nasal. They pre- sent a somewhat lower degree of development in the Koala, but both in this species and in the Wombat they bulge outwards and thus remarkably increase the transverse diameter of the osseous cavity of the nose. Neither in Hypsiprymnus nor Macropus do I find the incisive palatal foramina entirely in the intermaxillary bones, as is described by the author of the text in Pander and D'Alton's