PENIS. 912 the thick and dense dermis of the neighbouring parts of the abdomen and thighs. Its colour is brown, but varies in its depth in different individuals, being darker in those of a dark complexion, and little differing from the skin of the rest of the body in persons of an oppo- site character. As in other parts of the body, it is well provided with sebaceous glands, but these are more numerous in that portion which invests the under part of the organ than in the dorsal region. Near to the free extremity of the penis the integument forms an ample fold, the fore-skin or prepuce (praputium), which serves to envelope the glans when the organ is in repose, and to increase the investing co- vering when it is distended and enlarged. The prepuce is connected to the glans on its under part by means of a narrow fold termed the J'ranum praputii, and is lined by mucous membrane. Along the ed°e of the prepuce the mucous membrane is continuous with the skin of the penis; at the base of the prepuce it is reflected over the glans, and at the summit of the latter is continuous with the mucous membrane of the urethra through the meatus urinarius. Upon the under part of the glans the mucous membrane enclosing some fibrous tissue constitutes the narrow fold above de- scribed, the fraenum praeputii. At the base of the body of the penis, the integument is continuous with that of adjoining parts, with the skin of the pubes superiorly, and of the scrotum laterally and beneath. In this situa- tion, moreover, it is altered in its characters ; it is thicker in its texture and furnished with numerous hairs. The latter differ from the hairs of the pubes in taking the direction of the axis of the penis, and in being, unlike the former, perfectly straight. Along the inferior border of the penis the integument presents a somewhat prominent line, which is continuous with the raphe of the scrotum behind and with the fraenum of the prepuce in front. This is the raphe of the penis, and indicates the mode of formation of the urethra, by the conjunction of two lateral segments on the middle line. The subcutaneous areolar tissue connecting the integument to the body of the penis is extremely lax, and wholly devoid of adipose formation. The laxity of tins tissue has the effect of per- mitting an enormous increase of size in the organ without inconvenience ; thus in the state of repose the prepuce usually covers the glans either partially or completely, and protects the mucous membrane from the attrition of dress; but in the state of erection this duplication is wholly effaced, and the integument rendered tense over the entire organ. In large hernias and in very large tumours of the scrotum again, the integument, from its extreme looseness of attachment, is withdrawn from the penis, and contributes to the investment of the swelling. In this way the whole of the integument is sometimes distended with the tumour, and the penis lies buried in the enlargement; its situa- tion being only distinguishable by means of a valvular opening, through which the urine trickles. Like all loose cellular tissue which is indisposed to the production of fat, the cel- lular tissue of the penis, in a state of inflam- mation, is particularly liable to serous in- filtration, which renders the organ swollen and CEdematous. The fascia penis is a thin but dense layer of white fibrous tissue, which immediately in- vests the penis, forming for it a kind of sheath, and is continuous with the superficial perineal fascia. On the dorsum penis the fascia covers- in the dorsal vessels and nerves, and is closely connected with the aponeurosis of the erectores- penis muscles; indeed it is rendered tense and stretched over the organ by the action of those muscles. The corpus cavernosum forms more than two- thirds of the bulk of the penis; it is usually described as two distinct bodies under the- name of corpora cavernosa, but it is more cor- rect to consider it as a single organ divided posteriorly into two parts, and separated in the interior by an imperfect partition. Apart from' the other components of the penis the corpus cavernosum represents a lengthened cylinder somewhat flattened from above downwards and grooved along the middle line both upon its upper and under surface; the upper groove lodging the dorsal vein, arteries and nerves,, and the under the corpus spongiosum. Ante- riorly the corpus cavernosum terminates in an. oblong and rounded extremity, which is re- ceived into a depiession on the posterior surface of the glans; and posteriorly it divides into two rounded and conical processes, about two inches in length, which separate from each- other and are firmly inserted into the everted edge of the ramus of the ischium and pubis under the name of crura penis. The corpus cavernosum is closely connected to the glans penis and corpus spongiosum by- dense areolar tissue and by a few vessels of communication. Behind and infenorly it is- attached to the rami of the ischia by its two crura; and above it is connected to the sym- physis pubis by means of a strong fibrous liga- ment of a triangular form, the ligamentum suspensorium penis. This ligament is inserted by one border into the fibrous structure cover- ing the symphysis pubis, and by its base is continuous with the aponeurosis of the erectores- penis muscles and with the fascia penis ; the remaining border being free and directed for- wards. In a few rare instances the ligamentum suspensorium penis has been found to contain some muscular fibres. The corpus cavernosum is composed of a> cellular structure enclosed in a thick fibrous tunic of great strength. The tunic is con- structed of longitudinal fibres closely inter- woven with each other so as to constitute a tissue which possesses perfect elasticity, and yields freely to distension up to a certain point, but resists enlargement beyond that limit. From- the interior of this tunic are given off a number of fibrous bands and cords (trabecule) which pass in a radiated direction from the middle line of its inferior wall to the rest of the in- ternal circumference of the cylinder, to which