907 PARTURITION. the child lies across and presents with the arm or shoulder, a position in which it cannot be born. The two first are therefore caLled natural) the last unnatural presentations. In the human subject neither the antero-posterior nor the transverse are the longest, but the oblique dia- meters, both of the brim cavity and outlet of the pelvis, and it is only in the directions of these diameters that the pelvis is of a tolerably uniform size throughout. They are named the right and left oblique diameters according to that sacro-iliac synchondrosis from which they are drawn. The great peculiarity in the mechanism of human parturition is that in either of the natu- ral presentations the presenting part enters the pelvis obliquely, not only as to the transverse diameter, but as to the axis of its brim ; it passes through the cavity and outlet nearly in the same position; so that it not only takes that direction in which the pelvis is most roomy, viz. in the oblique diameters, but in which it will itself occupy the least possible space. Having stated tins law, it will now be neces- sary to describe these presentations of the child in illustration of it. The cephalic end of the child may present in two ways, either with the head or the face; the former is by far the most common; it is also the most favourable for mother and child, and at one time was looked upon as the only natu- ral and favourable presentation. The head presents either with the right or left parietal protuberance, the sagittal suture running pa- rallel with the right or left oblique diameters, and in both cases, at the beginning of labour, crossing the os uteri. These three facts at once confirm the law above mentioned, viz. that the head enters the pelvis obliquely both as to its long and perpen- dicular diameters, or, as before expressed, 06- liquely as to the transverse diameter and axis of the brim; for if (as is well known to be the case) the os uteri at the beginning of labour is situated at the upper part of the hollow of the sacrum, the vertex of the head will be turned towards this part of the pelvis, and the parietal protuberance being that part which is lowest and in the centre of the pelvis, it follows that the perpendicular diameter of the head will run obliquely upwards and forwards with the axis of the brim. The first position, viz. where the right pa- rietal protuberance presents, and the sagittal suture corresponds to the right oblique diameter of the pelvis, is known by the posterior or small fontanelle being felt in the vicinity of the left foramen ovale, the anterior or large fonta- nelle in the opposite direction near the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis : this has been called the first position from occurring more frequently than the other, viz, in the proportion of five to two. As the head approaches the pelvic outlet, the occiput turns somewhat more for- wards, so that instead of the protuberance, the posterior and superior quarter of the right pa- rietal bone presents : this is the part of the head which the finger at this period of labour first touches upon during examination, which first passes under the pubic arch, and first dis- tends the os externum ; the position of the head is nevertheless still oblique, for the right branch of the lambdoidal suture will be felt parallel with the left descending ramus of the pubic arch. In still further proof of what has now been stated, we may mention, that if the head be some time in its passage through the vagina, it becomes so tightly encircled by it as to produce a considerable obstruction to the circulation in the scalp ; hence we shall feel a tumefaction of the cranial integuments on that part of it which presents. On examining, therefore, the head of a new-born child which has presented in the first position, it has a cir- cular swelling of the scalp situated upon the posterior and superior quarter of the right pa- rietal bone. This is the caput succcdaneum, the Vorkopf of the German authors, and, as was pointed out by the late Professor Chaussier of Paris, is a distinct evidence of the manner in which the child has presented during labour. The shoulders enter the pelvis in the contrary oblique diameter to what the head does, so that if the head in the first position has passed through with its long diameter corresponding to the right oblique diameter of the pelvis, the shoulders will be found in the left oblique dia- meter—from this circumstance, after the head is born, the face is turned backwards and to the right. The second position of the head is the reverse of the first. The left parietal protuberance presents. During the descent of the head through the brim into the cavity of the pelvis, the sagittal suture is in the right oblique dia- meter as in the first position, only now the posterior fontanelle is directed towards the right sacro-iliac symphysis, the anterior one to the left foramen ovale. The head descends in this position until it approaches the pelvic outlet, when it makes the quarter of a turn and passes from the right into the left oblique diameter, the anterior fontanelle now corresponding to the left sacro-iliac symphysis, the posterior one to the right foramen ovale. As the head enters the vagina and begins to pass under the pubic arch, it is the posterior and superior quarter of the left parietal bone which now presents, and upon which the puffy swelling of the scalp is situated ; as in the first position it was the right lambdoidal suture which corresponded to the left branch of the pubic arch, so here it is the reverse, the leftlambdoidal suture at this moment will be found parallel with the right branch of the pubic arch; in like manner, the face when born turns backwards and to the left. This change in the position of the head from one ob- lique diameter to the other is not peculiar to the second position, for we meet with it occa- sionally in the first, the anterior fontanelle being turned to the right foramen ovale, the posterior one towards the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, the change in this case usually taking place at a much earlier period of labour than in the se- cond position, whether it is owing to the posi- tion of the rectum or not is difficult to say. The uniformity with which this change occurs in the position of the head from one oblique