PISCES. 1006 sents itself under three principal types, each of which will merit distinct consideration. The first is that observed in the Dermapte- ryginous or Cyclostomatous Fishes, such as the Myxine and Lamprey ; but it is not pe- culiar to this group, seeing that the Eels and perhaps other races have a similar organi- zation. On opening the abdomen of one of these Fishes, as, for example, the Lamprey, (Pe- tromyzon marinus, Jig. 534) an exceedingly Fig. 534. [Female generative organs of the Lamprey (Petromyzon marinus). a, parietes of abdomen ; b, cavity of ditto; c, ovary; e, external passage leading into abdo- minal cavity, through which the ova are discharged; g, kidney. extensive membranous expansion is found sus- pended in loose folds, which is attached by a kind of mesentery beneath the spinal column, and extending along the whole length of the abdominal cavity. Except in the breeding Fig. 535. One of the folds of the ovary of the Lamprey, (Petromyzon marinus,) showing the enclosed ova. season, this membrane, of which a portion only is represented in the figure, (fig. 534, c,) is thin and transparent, but at the same time exhibits considerable vascularity. When the breeding season approaches, innumerable gra- nules begin to make their appearance, between the two layers of which this expansion consists, which in the female soon proclaim themselves to be ova (Jig. 535), and, as they increase in size, gradually distend the whole abdomen. On opening the fish in this condition the abdominal cavity appears to be completely filled with innumerable ova beautifully arranged in rich festoons, all of which are connected in front of the spinal column. When the ova are quite mature they are cast loose from the ovary and escape from the ovarian membrane in which they were formed, into the general ca- vity of the abdomen, wherein they may be found at this period floating quite loose prepa- ratory to their expulsion. This is ultimately effected through a simple but wide orifice (e) situated immediately behind the anal aperture, and causing a free communication to exist be- tween the peritoneal cavity and the exterior of the body, so that the ova easily pass out and are ejected into the surrounding water. In the males of those Fishes which offer this type of the generative system the appearance of the reproductive organ is, while in a state of inactivity, so exactly similar to that of the female as to preclude the possibility of distin- guishing the two from each other; but, as the breeding season advances, the difference be- comes apparent; the festooned membrane, which must in this case be called the testis, secretes a kind of milt or seminal fluid, rich in seminal animalcules, which in the same manner as the ova of the female escapes into the peri- toneal cavity and is expelled through a post- anal orifice to be diffused through the sur- rounding water, by the agency of which it is applied to the previously deposited spawn of the female, whose ova thus becoming vivified are left to the mercy of circumstances to be destroyed or hatched in due season. In the second form of the generative appa- ratus which is common to almost all the true osseous Fishes, a very different arrangement is met with. The folds of the ovarian membrane, instead of being loosely suspended in the abdo- minal cavity, are now completely enclosed in two capacious membranous capsules, situated one on each side of the spine, and which when distended with ova occupy a very large share of the abdomen. On opening one of these cap- sules, the ova which it contains are seen, how- ever, to be developed between the two layers of the proper ovary, exactly as in the case of the Lamprey, and to be attached in broad festoons to the interior of its walls, the essential diffe- rence being that whereas in the preceding type the eggs, when expelled from the ovary, escaped into the peritoneal sac, they now are retained by the capsular envelope of the ovary, whence they are expelled through excretory canals provided for the purpose. These, as they exist in the Herring, are represented in the annexed figure (fig. 536); from the posterior extremity of each