520 MUSCULAR MOTION. experiments of Miiller, Valentin, and others, to be erroneous and unworthy of credit. But 1 have elsewhere6 adduced the evidence of direct microscopical observations made on living fragments of the elementary fibre of voluntary muscle, entirely isolated from every extraneous tissue, whether nerve or vessel, to shew that this is a property inherent in this tissue, and that, whatever be its source, it is capable of being brought into action by a stimulus topi- cally applied. Thus, when such a fragment is examined, contraction is found to occur first at its broken extremities, and if water (which has long been known to be a rapid exhauster of muscular irritability) be brought into con- tact with it, it is seen to absorb the fluid and to be excited to contractions, which com- mence at the surface. The same thing is fre- quently to be met with under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, as a hair or piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field so as to touch the side of the fibre at a single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a contraction so plain and so limited to the point touched, as to give un- equivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. Theseinteresting phenomena may be observed more or less satisfactorily in all animals whose fibres retain their irritability for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body, and the crab and lobster will be found the most favourably adapted for the purpose. In many reptiles and fishes, also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scrutinized. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation if it be conceded that the mus- cular element has been here separated from the nervous; and certainly that separation has been effected unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcotemma and diffuse themselves through the contractile ma- terial within ; a supposition for which there exists at present no foundation in the obser- vations of the most diligent investigators of this subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a pro- perty inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action inde- pendently of the immediate instrumentality of nerves. The determination of this point must have a very important bearing on the question of the nature and cause of contraction, into which no small confusion has been introduced by the attempts to account for that phenomenon by various hypotheses of electrical action. That one, especially, which aims at establishing an attraction between distant points of the fibres where the nerve crosses them, (the ' zig-zag hypothesis' of Prevost and Dumas,) and which, with the wrongly interpreted facts on which it principally rests, has had an immense, though sometimes unperceived influence, ever since it was broached, on the whole question of con- traction, is entirely refuted by the facts above- * Phil. Trans. 1840, p. 487. mentioned. There are some others, sprung out of this, which do not here require more than a passing allusion. 2. Source of contractility : whence derived ! This important question, like the last, is de- bated up to the present day, but seems at length to have become disenthralled of certain loose hypotheses which have long interfered with its settlement. The discussion may be limited to such particulars as seem to be the most conclusive. It may be observed that the contractility and development of muscle, other things being the same, are always proportionate to one another. Allcauses interfering withdevelopmentdimiiush contractility. Thus muscles become atrophied and weak by disuse, by lessening their supply of blood, by cutting off their connexion with the central part of the nervous system. They are, on the contrary, augmented both in size and power by active use, during which both the vascular and nervous parts supplied to them are no doubt urged to increased activity. How is it to be decided whether these changes of contractility depend on changes of nutrition, or whether both be not a common result of changes in the amount of nervous power brought to act upon the muscles. Dr. Marshall Hall has remarked that in paralysis from disease involving the spinal cord or nerves, the wasting of the muscles is far more rapid and complete than in paralysis from affection of the brain, wherein the spinal cord and its connection with the muscles remains in a normal state; and the deduction seems at first sight plain and inevit- able, that it is from the spinal cord that the contractility is derived, or at least that the integrity of the spinal system is essential to the maintenance of that property in the muscles. An ingenious experiment of Dr. John lleid's,* however, proves that this is not the case, and explains the part which the spinal system plays in respect of this property in the instances referred to. " The spinal nerves were cut across, as they lie in the lower part of the spinal canal, in four frogs, and both posterior extremities were thus insulated from their ner- vous connexions with the spinal cord. The muscles of one of the paralyzed limbs were daily exercised by a weak galvanic battery, while the muscles of the other limb were allowed to remain quiescent. This was con- tinued for two months, and at the end of that time the muscles of the exercised limb retained their original size and firmness and contracted vigorously, while those of the quiescent limb had shrunk to at least one-half of their former bulk, and presented a marked contrast with those of the exercised limb. The muscles of the quiescent limb still retained their contrac- tility, even at the end of two months; but there can be little doubt (adds Dr. Reid) that from the imperfect nutrition of the muscles and the progressing changes in their physical structure, this would in no long time have dis- appeared had circumstances permitted me to prolong the experiment." It is clear from this * Edinb. Monthly Journal of Medical Science, May 1841, p. 327.