OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (Comp.Anat.) 840 ployed in constructing the shoulder-joint, but is by no means constantly present. In Fishes its existence as a distinct bone is not recognisable; but in all the Reptilia it constitutes a highly important piece of the skeleton. In Birds the clavicles, in consequence of the elasticity and strength indispensable in the composition of the bony framework of the shoulder in animals constructed for flight, pre- sent a very peculiar arrangement,being generally solidly anchylosed to each other in the mesial line, where they meet, forming a single bone, to which the name of furculum is generally given. In Birds, however, that are not organized for flight, such as the Ostrich, this peculiarity is dispensed with, and two distinct clavicles are found articulated with the sternum, as in the generality of Vertebrata. In the Mammalia again the clavicles are much reduced in importance and frequently are entirely wanting, as in all the pachydermatous races. It is only when extensive movements are required in the anterior limbs, either for the purposes of flight, climbing, digging-, or pre- hension, that clavicles are interposed between the shoulder of a quadruped and the anterior portion of the sternum, so as to form a kind of pivot on which the whole shoulder moves, and in the human subject the freedom of motion obtained for the arms and hands by this arrange- ment contrasts strongly with the fixed condition of the shoulder, both of Birds and Reptiles. The coracoid bone, forming the third element employed in constructing the shoulder-joint of Vertebrate animals, is only fully developed in the Reptilia and in Birds. In Fishes it is but doubtfully represented by two bony pieces already referred to; but in all the Batrachian and Saurian Reptiles it constitutes the strongest support of the shoulder, abutting on the sternum on the one hand, and on the other firmly con- nected with the shoulder-joint. In the Chelo- nian Reptiles, too, the coracoids are very large, and remarkable on account of the extraordinary inversion of the skeleton of these animals, the scapulcE being here actually placed inside the thorax within the ribs, and fixed by ligaments to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae; while the coracoid bones, equally placed within the thoracic box, are similarly circumstanced as regards the plastron or enlarged sternum that covers them inferiorly. In Birds the coracoid bones are of peculiar strength and solidity, serving as buttresses to support the shoulder against the vigorous trac- tion of the enormous pectoral muscles. It stretches trom the anterior margin of the sternum, with which it is firmly articulated, to the junction of the scapula and clavicle, where it assists in forming the g'enoid cavity. Throughout all the Mammalia, with the exception of the Monotremata, the coracoid bones are wanting or only represented by a small apophysis, consolidated with the neck of the scapula, as is the case in the human skeleton, to which the term coracoid process has been generally applied. The humerus, the first bone of the anterior extremity, is invariably a single bone interposed between the glenoid cavity and the forearm. It is invariably present throughout all the Reptilia, excepting of course the apodal Ophidian races, and is at once recognisable by the anatomist. In Birds, likewise, the humerus offers nothing remarkable except the mechanical arrangement of its articular extremities. Neither in the Mammalia is there any aberra- tion from the common type of structure, the only variations being in the length, form, or proportions of this piece of the skeleton, adapt- ing it to the necessities of the different races of Mammifera. The forearm, or second division of the upper extremity, is normally made up of two bones, called respectively the ulna and the radius. These are incomparably most complete in the human subject, where their admirable connec- tions with the humerus, with each other, and with the hand, are amongst the most striking instances of perfect mechanism met with in the animal creation. In Fishes and in the Batrachian Reptiles they are most imperfectly developed, and are invariably anchylosed together. In the Chelo- nian and Saurian Reptiles they become quite distinct from each other, but the movements of pronation and supination are extremely limited. The ulna of Birds is the principal bone of the forearm, while the radius is a separate bone easily distinguishable by the relations it bears to the other parts of the wing ; here likewise, in consequence of the uses of the anterior extre- mity as instruments of flight, these bones are almost immoveably fixed in a state of pronation. In the unguiculate Quadrupeds generally, the ulna and radius are separate bones, with a few exceptions, such as the Cheiroptera, where one bone only constitutes the forearm, but amongst the Ungulata they are frequently more or less consolidated and fused together towards their distal extremities, as, for example, in the Ruminants and in the Solidungula. The carpus, forming the third division of the upper extremity, generally consists of several short and thick bones firmly bound together by ligaments, but allowing of sufficient motion be- tween each other to afford a slightly moveable basis to support the parts composing the hand, either to prevent concussion in walking or to permit increased mobility to the fingers. When most completely developed, as they are found in the human subject, they are eight in number, to which names indicative of their shape have been applied, such as scuphoides, lunure, cunei- J'orme, pisiforme, trapezium, trapezoides mag- num, and uncijorme; but these names cannot be supposed to be applicable to the carpal bones of other Vertebrata, in which they present so many varieties both in their shape and position as frequently to be quite unrecognisable as the analogues of each other, their number too varying most considerably, either on account of the coalescence of elements originally dis- tinct, or from their total suppression. The bones of the carpus in Fishes are gene- rally represented by four or five small pieces interposed between the bones of the forearm and the pectoral fin. With these bones the