MARSUPIALIA. 324 Fig. 141. Uterine foetus with chorion and foetal appendages, Maeropus major. The foetus is magnified twice the natural size. (b, fig. 141) was spread out, its figure ap- peared to have been that of a cone, of which the apex was the umbilical chord, ~and the base the terminal vessel above-mentioned. Three vessels could be distinguished diverging from the umbilical chord and ramifying over it. Two of these trunks contained coagulated blood, and were the immediate continuations of the terminal or marginal vessel: the third was smaller, empty, and evidently the arterial trunk. Besides the extremely numerous rami- fications dispersed over this membrane, it dif- fered from the chorion in being of a yellowish tint. The amnios (c, 141) was reflected from the umbilical chord, and formed, as usual, the immediate investment of the foetus. The umbilical chord measured two lines in length and one in diameter. It was found to contain the three vessels above-mentioned, with a small loop of intestine; and from the ex- tremity of the latter a filamentary process was continued to the vascular membrane. The margins of the umbilicus or abdominal open- ing were very strong, offering much resistance to their division. On tracing the contents of the chord into the abdomen, the two larger vessels with coagulated blood were found to unite; the common trunk then passed back- wards beneath the duodenum, and after being joined by the mesenteric vein, went to the under surface of the liver, where it penetrated that viscus: this was consequently an omphalo- mesenteric or vitelline vein. The artery was a branch of the mesenteric. The membrane, therefore, upon which they ramified, answered to the vitellicle, i. e. the vascular and mu- cous layers of the germinal membrane, which spreads over the yolk in oviparous animals, and which constitutes the umbilical vesicle of the embryo of ordinary Mammalia. The fila- mentary pedicle which connected this mem- brane to the intestine was given off near the end of the ileum, and not continued from the coscum, the rudiment of which was very evi-