369 MONOTREMATA. nections, and the proportions in which they enter into the formation of the skul!, have heen in great measure determined and described in that genus.* I have had the opportunity of investigating the composition of the cranium, a point so im- portant in regard to the natural affinities of the Monotremata, in the young Ornithorhynchi transmitted to the Zoological Society of Lon- don by Dr. Weatherhead ; and the comparison of this part of their anatomy has enabled me Fig. 169. better to appreciate and understand peculiarities of the same part in the Echidna, the skull of which is here also described from original spe- cimens. In the cranium of a young but full-grown specimen of Echidna setosa, (g, fig. 169, 170, 171,) the four elements of the occipital bone are unanchylosed and are joined together by smooth linear harmonise. The basi-occipital (Jig. 170, a) presents a six-sided rhomboidal figure, with the posterior margin notched to complete the lower Shull of Echidna setosa. ( Original.) boundary of the large vertical occipital foramen, and thickened and smoothly rounded to form the inferior extremities of the two occipital con- dyles. These condyles are principally deve- loped from the ex-occipital elements (fgs. 169, 171, b, b), which are expanded superiorly and terminate in an angle wedged in between the supra-occipital and petrous bones; they extend, but do not meet, above the occipital foramen, being separated by a notch closed by membrane in the recent state. The supra- occipital element (figs. 169 & 171, c) is a transversely oblong quadrilateral plate of bone; its short lateral margin is joined by a linear harmonia with the upper part of the os petro- sum, on each side ; the wide anterior mar- gin is similarly articulated with the single parietal bone, and is slightly overlapped by its posterior margin; this representative of the deltoid suture runs straight across the posterior and upper part of the skull. Fig. 171. Occipital and sphenoidal cranial vertebra;, Echidna setosa. (Original.) * See Lemons d'Anatomie Coinpan'-e, Kd, vol. in. 1837. Occipital region of shull, Echidna setosa. ( Original.) In the specimen in which the preceding condition of the occipital vertebra was mani- fested there was no trace of sagittal suture; the upper and middle region of the cra- nium was covered by a single broad, slightly convex, parietal bone, (fig. 169, d,) joined posteriorly, as above described, with the supra- occipital, laterally with the petrous and sphe- noid bones, and anteriorly with the sphenoid and frontal bones, which the parietal overlaps; 2 B