858 PACHYDERMATA. these osseous masses are generally small, and sometimes without material density, the indi- vidual granules not having firmly united. In fact they resemble in every point adventitious bone. If in a young animal the fracture be not kept tolerably quiet, the motion between the fractured bone will prevent the formation of cartilage, which seems necessary to the deve- lopement of bone, and here, therefore, osseous masses will alone present themselves. This fact is very interesting in a surgical point of view, and might be treated more at length ; but having given a detailed account of the deve- lopement of bone and of the distinction to be made between true bone and adventitious osseous tissue, I shall conclude the article. (J. Tomes.) OVARY.—See Supplement. OVUM.—See Supplement. PACHYDERMATA.—An extensive group of herbivorous quadrupeds, constituting a dis- tinct order of the class Mammalia, generally remarkable for their ponderous bulk and un- wieldy appearance, and seemingly forming the transition between the gigantic Cetacea, which from their size are only adapted to an aquatic existence, and the vegetable-eating Mammals of strictly terrestrial habits. Even the localities where they are met with would seem to indi- cate that they constitute such a connecting link, seeing that their most typical forms are peculiarly adapted to be occupants of the river and the marsh, from the Hippopotamus, that might almost be considered an aquatic animal, to the Tapirs and the Hog, which still love to wallow in mud although they approximate in their habits to the ruminating quadrupeds. At the present day the order Pachydermata con- tains but few genera, and these for the most part embrace a very limited number of species. But in former periods of the history of our globe they must have existed under much greater variety of form, seeing that the tertiary deposits yield to the geologist, in abundance, the remains of very numerous genera now totally extinct, to the list of which modern researches are adding day by day ; it is indeed more than probable that many of the existing races will speedily perish, for the hand of man is against them, and the bullet and the spear are doing their work of extermination rapidly, so that the Tapir and the Elephant, like the Palceotherium and the Mastodon, may soon be classified with extinct existences. The order of Mammalia under consideration is usually divided into Proboscidians, in- cluding such Pachydermata as are provided with a proboscis and tusks, of which the Ele- phant is the only existing example, and into Ordinary Pachydermata, which are unpro- vided with a proboscis, and characterized by possessing four, three, or two large digits on their feet, which are cased in horny hoofs—the last group being distinguishable from the Rumi- nantia by the simple construction of their stomachs, although closely approaching them in many points of their economy. The above division, however useful to the zoologist, is nevertheless by no means based on nature, the proboscis of the Elephant being only a maxim urn Fig. 464. Skeleton of Elephant (Elephas Indicus).