MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 537 as it were the limbs of Crustaceans and other Artieulata. The study of the muscular system in the extensive class Echinodermata, the last of the neinatoneurose division of the animal world, is invested with considerable interest on account of the very different kinds of locomotive appa- ratus that successively make their appearance; for as the outward form of these elaborately con- structed creatures changes through all the phases represented by the Encrinite, the Starfishes, the Echinus, the Holothuria, and the worm- like Siponculus,the muscles successively assume a different arrangement. The Encrinite in its outward form might be mistaken for a polyp, the jointed calcareous stem whereby it is fixed to the rock, the body and rays around the mouth, as well as the appendages to the stem, being all in their essen- tial structure exactly comparable to those cor- tical polyps, that have an internal jointed cal- careous basis of support. The numerous pieces that compose the skeleton of the Encri- nite are all invested with a living contractile crust, whereby, in fact, they were secreted, and which forms the bond that connects them together. The living crust that covers the Encrinite can scarcely, indeed, as yet be looked upon as being muscular, so soft and acrite does its composition appear to be; nevertheless in these Echinoderms it seems to be the only moving power employed, and by its slow con- tractions bends the arms, or rays, or stem in any given direction. In the long-armed Starfishes, such as the Comatulce, Gorgonocephali, and Ophiuri, the slender and flexible rays around the body are in like manner covered with a living contracting skin, more dense and coriaceous than that of the Encrinite, but still presenting very dubious appearances of muscular fibre, whereby the movements of the rays are effected. The rays themselves constitute the instruments of pro- gression, and by their aid these Polyp-like creatures crawl at the bottom of the sea, or by entwining them around the sea-weed that covers the rocks climb in search of food. In Asterias and kindred forms the exterior of the body is still encrusted with the same contractile covering, and can be bent to a certain extent; but in these short-armed Star- fishes the rays have become so short and devoid of flexibility that they can no longer be useful for the purposes of locomotion ; an additional muscular apparatus is therefore now conferred in the extraordinary system of protrusible suckers, that become the chief agents in walk- ing, or in seizing prey. As we advance from the Aslcrida we find that the rays at length totally disappear: the body assumes a pentagonal form (Pulmipes), then circular (Scutella), and at last is enclosed in an ovoid or globular shell, as in Echinus, Cidaris, &c. In these spherical Echinoderms the external soft and living crust that still covers the exterior of the shell presents obvious claims to muscularity, more especially where it passes on to the articulated spines that are attached to the surface of the shell and now become the principal means of progression. The suckers, however, that formed the only locomotive organs in the Asterida still are met with in the Echinida,—these and the spines constituting an apparatus for locomotion, which, for its complexity, is unparalleled in the ani- mal creation. In the Echinidoe, moreover, a strangely constructed set of dental organs are developed,and for these likewise special muscles are appointed, for a description of which the reader is referred elsewhere. (See ECHINO- DERMATA.) In the Holothurida the shell of the Echinus is no longer secreted, and the living integument itself constitutes the whole parietes of the body, which now becomes quite soft and flexible, clearly commencing that transition which is to connect the Echinodermata with the Annulose division of the animal kingdom. The suckers of the last family are, however, still persistent and form the principal means of moving from place to place. The texture of the fleshy skin of the Holothuria is dense and coriaceous, and strong bands of muscular fibre arranged in five divisions pass in a longitudinal direction, from one end of the body to the other, between which circular and transverse fasciculi are dis- tinctly perceptible. Imbedded in the muscular walls that enclose the visceral sac of the IIolo- thurida?, delicate nervous filaments are to be de- tected passing a! ong the body from end to end, and most probably these are connected together by a circular filament surrounding the oesophagus. Ganglia, if they exist at all, have, from their minute size, hitherto escaped observation ; and, as might be expected from such a condition of the nervous system, the muscular contractions of the fibrous integument, although associated through the medium of the nerves, and con- sequently far stronger and more energetic than in the lower asteroid Echinoderms, are still almost entirely uncontrolled by the influence of volition ; nay, so remarkably is this the case, that in most species of Holothuria, upon the applica- tion of the slightest stimulus to the exterior of the body, or even by simply taking them out of the water in which they live, such violent and general contractions of the whole integu- ment are excited that the intestines and other viscera are forced extensively through the anal orifice, and it is almost impossible for the anatomist to procure a specimen of these crea- tures without finding it more or less spoiled from this circumstance. Lastly, in the Siponculi the vermiform ap- pearance is completely established, the longi- tudinal and circular muscles that bound the visceral cavity are strongly and distinctly deve- loped, the complicated apparatus of foot-like suckers has disappeared, minute ganglia are visible towards the anterior end of the body, and we arrive at the annulose condition, that characterizes the next great division of the animal creation, which now offers itself to our contemplation. IIomogangliata (Owen).—The third great natural group of living beings consists of crea- tures having the exterior of their bodies divided into rings or segments arranged behind each