983 PISCES. Salmonida, they are extremely numerous, while in other races, the Pleuronectida for example, there are only two cceca attached to the pylorus. That the pyloric appendages are strictly analo- gous to the pancreas, exhibiting that gland in its simplest condition, such as it presents in the embryonic state of the higher animals, is proved by the gradual transition that may be traced from the condition in which they exist as above described, and the undoubted pan- creatic gland met with in the more highly organized cartilaginous Fishes. Thus in the Cod-fish (Gadus murrhua) the pancreatic ceeca unite together as they approach the duo- denum, so as to communicate with that intes- tine by comparatively few orifices situated in the vicinity of the pylorus ; and in the Stur- geons this coalescence of the coecal tubes is still more conspicuous, for in that race of Fishes the pyloric appendages are very short, and so connected together by vessels and cel- lular membrane into a single mass, that they here present a precisely intermediate condition between the free coeca of the osseous Fishes and the conglomerate pancreas possessed by the Sharks and Rays. In the plagiostome cartilaginous Fishes last named, the pancreas is in fact a true conglo- merate gland, resembling that of Quadrupeds, and in the same manner pouring its secretion into the intestine through a single excretory duct, which runs obliquely for a considerable distance between the coats of the duodenum, and terminates in the vicinity of the ductus choledochus. Liver.—The liver of Fishes is generally of very great relative size, and frequently contains in its tissue such an enormous quantity of oil, that this alone forms an important article of commerce. Its texture is exceedingly soft, and from the arrangement of the vessels in its inte- rior sometimes exhibits a fibrous appearance. The lobes of which it consists are generally very numerous, but there is always a gall-blad- der, from which the bile is poured into the intestines through a single duct, which termi- nates in the duodenum near the pylorus. Spleen.—This viscus, which is peculiar to the Vertebrata, first makes its appearance as we trace the animal series upwards in the class under consideration. In Fishes it is of very variable size, but is always present. Its usual position is among the folds of the intestines, and its relations with the stomach are so diffe- rent to what obtains in the mammiferous races, that its functions cannot be in any way influ- enced by pressure caused by the distension of that organ. In its supply of arterial blood, wbich is subsequently transmitted to the portal system, it differs in no essential particular from what occurs in the other vertebrate classes. All the above viscera are lodged in the cavity of the abdomen, in which they are suspended by numerous irregular folds of peritoneum; the generative and urinary organs, as well as the swimming bladder hereafter to be described, being situated beneath the spine external to the peritoneal sac, the peritoneum only covering their anterior surfaces. In many Fishes the peritoneum does not form a closed bag, as is the case with the serous membranes in general, but on the contrary is penetrated by two large orifices situated in the vicinity of the anus, through which the peritoneal membrane be- comes continuous with the external integument, and in this respect assimilates a mucous sur- face. Such is the case in the Sturgeons, Lam- preys, Salmons, Sharks, and Rays : in the two last genera, indeed, the connection is still fur- ther extended by two orifices, through which the peritoneal bag communicates with the ca- vity of the pericardium. The mesentery is in Fishes very incomplete, consisting merely of irregular bands, which enclose the principal bloodvessels and unite the viscera to each other. Sometimes there are processes filled with oily fat representing the omentum. In the Branchiostoma the oesophagus com- mences at the bottom of the buccal cavity be- hind the opening of the branchial sac, between the latter and the spinal axis, and after a short course terminates in a simple dilatation, which forms the stomach. About the middle of the branchial sac the alimentary tube becomes im- bedded in the liver, and terminates in a delicate intestine, which extends to the anal opening. Lymphatic system.—The principal lacteal vessels are situated near the large branches of the coeliac and mesenteric arteries and veins, and the large lymphatic trunks derived from the spleen, liver, and pancreas, accompany the chief bloodvessels of those parts.* The lacteals and lymphatics of the assistant chylopoietic viscera are much larger in propor- tion to the bloodvessels than in Quadrupeds, Birds, or even in Reptiles. Their branches communicate with each other freely and repeat- edly, and instead of uniting into one or two trunks, they form a right and left plexus, which are continued undiminished in size till they are about to join with the lymphatic system of the rest of the body. Neither the lacteal nor lymphatic vessels are quite cylindrical, but by being contracted a little in many places seem to be jointed, so that the anatomist would ex- pect to find numerous valves in their course, yet these are entirely wanting, except at the termination of the whole system. The lacteals terminate in a very remarkable structure, which is situated along the great curvature of the stomach. This consists of an elongated viscus, the interior of which is en- tirely cellular, so that, wben prepared by infla- tion and drying, its internal texture resembles the cancellated structure of bones, being com- posed of a great many cells of very irregular shapes, and all communicating with each other, so that probably this cellular viscus may per- form the office of the absorbent glands of other animals, which in Fishes are totally wanting. Pursuing the right and left plexuses formed by the lacteals and lymphatics of the chylopoietic organs, we are led upwards along the sides and back part of the oesophagus to the sides of the spine and of the inferior venae cava?, and * Monro, Structure and Physiology of Fishes, fol, 1785.