PISCES. 981 of the skeleton, arid a series of deep alveoli is excavated in each of its lateral margins (jig. 518). The teeth which are lodged in these sockets are elongated, compressed in the same plane as that of the body of the saw, and their edges converge to a sharp point, which is situated a little behind the axis of the tooth. Each ros- tral tooth is solid, its base being slightly con- cave and porous like the section of a cane, bul the pores are finer and more numerous. The walls of the socket are formed by ossification of the rostral cartilages to an adequate extent; but as unnecessary weight under any circum- stances, but especially at the fore-end of the fish, would be a cumbrous impediment to its motions, the spaces intervening between the sockets are hollow and filled with a gelatinous medulla. A large vascular canal traversed by branches of the facial artery and of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves enclosed in a cellular gelatinous tissue, runs parallel with the axis of the saw along the back part of the alveoli, and supplies the materials for the increase of the teeth, which are not shed and renewed like the maxillary teeth, but grow with the growth of the body by constant addition of fresh pulp-material progressively ossified at their base. (Ewphngus.—Owing to the extreme short- ness of the passage between the cavity of the mouth and the stomach, the length of this tube is extremely limited in the whole race of Fishes; nevertheless, occasionally its boundaries are well marked, and its structure sufficiently dis- tinct from that of the alimentary canal to entitle this part of the digestive apparatus to a brief notice. Its walls are generally strong and muscular for the purpose of passing the food into the stomachal cavity, but more especially so in those voracious Eishes which swallow dense and indigestible shells of various kinds, or that are subject to have their stomachs loaded with the hard bones of digested fishes, all which materials are in such instances regur- gitated and thrown out of the mouth much after the manner of the " castings" of the Hawk or Owl among birds of prey. In a few races, how- ever, the oesophagus exhibits peculiarities of structure that are remarkable. Thus in the Torpedo and others of the Kay genus, there is a very thick layer of a soft and semi-gelatinous substance interposed between the lining mem- brane and the muscular coat, the use of which it is by no means easy to conjecture. In the Sturgeon the mucous membrane of the gullet is prolonged into transverse valvular folds, analogous in their nature to the conical pro- cesses found in that of the Turtle. But the most striking example of a valvular apparatus situated in this part of the digestive tube is met with in the Sharks (fig. 519), in which race of Fishes the termination of the oesophagus is indicated by a great number of long fleshy stems, which divide and subdivide into very numerous branches, and thus form a dense and prominent fringe hanging loosely downwards towards the stomach, in such a way as to allow anything swallowed to pass freely in that direc- tion, but by the interlacement of the fringes effectually preventing anything from returning towards the mouth. This structure is most conspicuously seen in the great Shark (Squalus maximus), in which species, owine; to the com- parative smallness of the teeth which arm the jaws, it is extremely probable that many Fishes are swallowed alive and might retain their vita- lity sufficiently long to struggle back again out of the stomach of their devourer, did not this strange gate effectually bar their progress. Stomach.—This viscus is, in the generality of species, a musculo-membranous bag of very simple structure and of variable shape in diffe- rent genera. Sometimes, however, its muscular walls are sufficiently strong to perform to a certain extent the functions of a gizzard : this seems to be the case, for example, in the GMaroo Trout (Salmo fario), and to a far more remarkable extent in the Mullets (Mugil), in which the oesophagus terminates inferiorly in a deep cul- de-sac that serves the purpose of a crop. The muscular stomach or gizzard opens from one side of this oesophageal bag, to which it is attached at right angles. Its shape is pyriform, the narrow end being directed towards the in- testine, and its muscular walls nearly half an inch thick. Internally it presents numerous longitudinal folds, all covered with a thick cu- ticular lining, and evidently the whole appara- tus is very analogous to the true gizzard of a granivorous bird. It was John Hunter's opinion that neither of these can be justly regarded as gizzards, since they want the most essential characters, namely, a power and mo- tion fit for grinding, and a horny cuticnlar lining. According to Professor Owen, how- ever, the latter structure exists in the gizzard of the Mullet as a distinct layer of rough and easily separable cuticle. The stomach of the Gillaroo or Gizzard-trout is certainly, as de- scribed by Hunter, more globular in its shape than that of most Fish, and endued with suffi- cient strength to break the shells of small shell- fish, which is probably accomplished by having more than one in the stomach at a time, and also by taking pretty large and smooth stones into the stomach, which will answer the pur- pose of breaking, but not so well that of grind- ing; nor will they hurt the stomach, as they are smooth when swallowed ; but this stomach can scarcely possess any power of grinding, as the whole cavity is lined with a fine villous coat, the internal surface of which appears every- where to be digestive. The common stream- trout, which only differs from the "Gillaroo" in having the walls of its stomach not so thick by two-thirds as the other variety, likewise swallows smooth round stones wherewith to crush the shell-fish which it occasionally de- vours. Intestinal canal.—The intestines of Fishes present as many variations as regards their rela- tive length when compared with that of the body, as do those of any of the higher Verte- brata, but their general arrangement is of a much more simple character. In the Flying- fish ( Exocetux), indeed, it presents the sim- plest possible form, being merely a straight