720r PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the nerve of the leg is to be laid upon the mus- cles of either thigh, and if these muscles be excited to contraction by mechanically stimula- ting the lumbar nerves, or the spinal cord, or by passing a galvanic current through the nerves or the cord, the muscles of the galvanoscopic leg will be simultaneously contracted. If a second and a third galvanoscopic leg be pre- pared, and the nerve of the second be laid on the muscles of the first, and that of the third be laid upon the muscles of the second, contrac- tions will take place in all three whenever the muscles of the prepared thighs are thrown into contraction. Matteucci, to whom we owe the discovery of this important fact (which he terms induced contraction*) has failed to cause a fourth leg to be thus affected. If the galvanoscopic nerve be laid on the muscles of a frog's thigh in which tetanoid con- vulsions have been produced by the cessation of a long continued inverse current, the in- duced contractions will be likewise tetanicf The annexed woodcuts (Jigs. 3986 & 398c) will serve to show the manner in which these experiments may be performed. It is plain, then, that during the contraction of muscles, whatever be the means used to sti- mulate them, a force is evolved capable of ex- citing a nerve laid upon the exterior of the con- tracting muscle to such a degree as to cause contraction of the muscles it supplies. What is this force ? The readiness with which it excites the nerve of the galvanoscopic leg re- sembles the action of electricity, and this view of its nature is favoured by the known fact that during muscular contraction heat is evolved, and in some of the marine animals, light also, ac- cording to the observations of Quatrefages. If heat and light be produced during muscular contraction, it is not unreasonable to expect that electricity should be evolved likewise. Matteucci's experiments, however, throw some difficulty in the way of viewing it as such. He finds that this force will freely permeate very imperfect conductors of electricity, whilst it will not traverse substances which are known to con- duct electricity. If gold leaf be placed upon the muscle between it and the nerve, the con- Fig. 3986. The limbs of a frog prepared according to Gal- vani's method, (he nerve of the galvanoscopic leg being laid across the muscles of one thigh. When these muscles are thrown into contraction by any means, mechanical or galvanic, those of the leg con- tract at the same moment. . 393c. The limbs of a frog prepared after Galvani's fashion. In another frog the galvanoscopic leg is prepared, but the sciatic nerve is left in connection with the lumbar plexus and the spinal cord. If this nerve be laid across the thighs of the frog and the limbs be made to contract, contractions will he simultaneously excited in the galvanoscopic leg and also in the other one. It is plain that while the contractions in the galvanoscopic leg arc excited by the direct stimulation of the sciatic nerve, those in the other leg arc excited through the excitation of the spinal cord by the sensitive fibres of the same sciatic nerve. Phil. Trans. 1845, p. 303. 1 Id. 184b', p. 487.