NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Spinal Cord.) 655 might most legitimately be expected that a proportionate developement of these parts would exist in the cervical region. Yet a comparison of the cervical with the lumbar swelling demonstrates that the developement of both the grey matter and the posterior co- lumns, (if not absolutely, certainly relatively to the bulk of the segment,) is inferior in the former to that in the latter, whence nerves are supplied to the inferior extremities in which sensibility is much less acute, and in which there is a much less perfect adjustment of the voluntary power to the muscular move- ments. The difference of the respective sizes of the anterolateral columns in those parts of the cord which supply the upper and lower extremities is perfectly consistent with the difference in the sensibility and voluntary power of those parts.* And as in the trunk these endowments are at their lowest point of developement, so the dorsal region of the cord is that which exhibits the antero-lateral columns of the smallest bulk. In the lower parts of the body, which re- ceive their supply of nerves from the lumbar swelling of the cord, there are certain peculi- arities worthy of the attention of the physiolo- gist. Thus the sphincter muscles of both the bladder and rectum are to a great degree inde- pendent of voluntary influence, and act inde- pendently of consciousness. The principal function of the lower extremities is that of locomotion; they are the pillars of support to the trunk, and the chief agents in the main- tenance of its attitudes. And, although in these actions the will exercises a not inconsi- derable control, still the principle of purely physical nervous action renders them in a great degree independent of the mind.+ The reflex or excito-motory actions are much more evident in the lower than in the upper extremities ; the former are much more independent of cerebral lesion than the latter. And let it be remarked that these phenomena are associated with high deve- lopement of grey matter, and with posterior columns of large size, while the antero-late- ral columns are comparatively small. May not the high developement of the grey matter have reference to the exalted state of the phy- sical nervous actions of the lower part of the body, and that of the posterior columns to the locomotive actions? To these points we shall have again to refer when we discuss the func- tions of the spinal cord. Is there a central canal in the [spinal cord ? Many anatomists have affirmed that the spinal cord was traversed in its entire length by a canal, which was continuous with the fourth ventricle. If such a canal exist, it must be extremely difficult to demonstrate, as I have never, after numberless examinations, been * Weber's experiments sufficiently indicate that the general as well as the tactile sensibility of the lower extremities is considerably inferior to those of the upper extremities. t See the observations at the commencement of the article, p. 589. able to see it. In transverse sections of the spinal cord, which have been dried upon glass, there is sometimes an appearance which may be attributed to the presence of a minute canal; but I should be more disposed to ascribe it to the patulous mouth of a bloodvessel which had been divided in making the section, for it is by no means constant even in different regions of the same spinal cord. The situation which some have assigned to this supposed canal is between the grey and white commissures ; but Stilling and Wallack* place it in the grey matter. It is obvious that an artificial sepa- ration of these layers, which is easily effected, and more especially while the preparation is being dried, would give rise to the appearance of a canal upon a transverse section. It may be stated, further, that the deepest part of the longitudinal fissure is wider than any other portion of it, and, if cut across, might appear like a canal. The observations of Tiedemann appear to me to put this question in its true light. I shall, therefore, make the following quotation from his learned work on the anatomy of the fcetal brain, without, however, subscribing to the ac- curacy of all the statements it contains. " The spinal marrow," says Tiedemann, " represents a hollow cylinder, the thin walls of which are bent backwards, the posterior part representing a longitudinal opening; for it is hollowed by a groove, termed the canal of the spinal marrow. This canal exists through the whole cylinder, and communicates with the calamus scriptorius, with the fourth ventricle, which, strictly speaking, is but a dilatation of it. During the first periods we can, without difficulty, separate the thin and flexed walls of the spinal marrow, and thus expose the canal which they contain. This canal is somewhat broader in those points where the spinal marrow sensibly enlarges exteriorly, as at the origin of the nerves for the pectoral and abdominal ex- tremities. The mechanism of its formation is very simple: the pia mater, acquiring more extent, is folded longitudinally backwards and dips into the substance of the spinal marrow, which, as we have seen, had been previously in a fluid state. It is very evident that, in the commencement of the second, third, and even fourth months, this canal has, in proportion to the thickness of the walls of the spinal marrow, a much greater capacity than it subsequently acquires. The contraction which it undergoes in the progress of the developement of the embryo, arises from the pia mater depositing a new substance, the materials of which it derives from the blood sent by the heart, and which, augmenting the volume of the walls of the cylinder, ought necessarily to diminish the calibre of the central canal. This substance is soft, reddish, and traversed by numerous small vessels during the period of the last two months. We cannot doubt, then, that the grey substance of the spinal marrow has an origin subsequent to that of the medullary * Untersuchungen iiher die Textur des Rikken- marks. Leipz. 1842.