BONES OF THE LOWER LIMH. 100 posterior wall being prolonged in that direction by the integuments of the perinsBum. Differ mens according to Sea-.—The size and form of the pelvis differ remarkably m the two sexes. In the female the constituent bones are more slender and less marked with muscular impressions ; the perpendicular depth is less, and the breadth and capacity greater: the ilia are more ex- panded than in the male ; the inlet of the true pelvis is more nearly circular, the sacral promontory projecting less into it, and Is broader from side to side ; the depth of the symphysis pubis is less, the pubic arch is much wider, and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater. The average dimensions of the pelvis, as measured in a number of full- sized males and females, may be stated as follows, in inches : Distance between the widest part of the crests of the ilium . Distance between the anterior superior spines of the ilium Distance between the front of sym- physis pubis and the sacral spines . Tkuk Pelvis. Transverse diameter Oblique diameter . . . . Antero-posterior diameter Male. Female. 10 to 11 H — 10 64—7 104 to 11 10 — 104 64 - 74 Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. 44 4i 4 44 44 44 34 4 H 5i 5 5 51 H 4f 4J 5 THE FEMUR. The femur or thigh bone, the largest bone of the skeleton, is situated between the os innominatum and the tibia. In the erect position of the body it inclines inwards and slightly backwards as it descends, so as to approach inferiorly its fellow of the opposite side, and to have its upper end a little in advance of the lower. It is divisible into a superior extremity including the head and neck and two eminences called tro- chanters, the shaft, and an inferior extremity expanded into an external and internal condyle. At the superior extremity of the bone, the neck extends inwards and upwards, and has a slight inclination forwards from the shaft. It has a constricted appearance, and its diameter from before backwards is less con- siderable than in the vertical direction, in which last greater strength is required to sustain the weight of the body. Its superior surface is shortest ; its inferior surface longest, and the anterior shorter than the posterior. The head, forming more than half a sphere, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, surmounts the neck, and is articulated with the acetabulum. Beneath its most prominent point is a small depression or pit, which gives attach- ment to the round ligament of the hip joint. The trochanter major is a thick truncated process prolonged upwards in a line with the external surface of the shaft. In front it is marked by the insertion of the gluteus minimus ; externally an oblique line directed down- wards and forwards indicates the inferior border of the insertion of the gluteus me-iius muscle, and lower down a horizontal line, continued upwards in front of the trochanter, marks the upper limit of the vastus externus.