53 THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. 1 • 4.^.„i,mATi+ at their extremities to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. The)' remains unossified tiU an advanced period of hfe. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. Fig. 48.—Front View of THE Skull op a Youno Man of about Twenty Years of Age. i Placed with the anterior nasal spine and the middle of the meatus auditorius externus in the horizontal plane. (In this, as in most other figures, the figures and lettersof indication are placed only on one side.) 1, frontal eminence ; 2, middle of the lower part of the frontal bone, or glabella, between the superciliary eminences, and above the transverse suture of union with the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; 3, supra-orbital ridge at its middle—to the inside of the figure is the supra-orbital notch ; 4, the orbit — the figure is placed on the orbital plate of the sphenoid bone, between the foramen lacerum orbitale and the spheno-maxillary fissure ; 5, the anterior opening of the nares, within which are seen in shadow the na.sal crest of the superior maxillary bones, the vertical plate of the eth- moid bone, and on each side the turbinated bones; 6, su- perior maxillary bone at the canine fos.sa—abovethefigure is the infra-orbital foramen ; 7, myrtiform, or incisor foramen ; 8, malar bone ; 9, symphysis menti and median ridge ; 10, body of the lower jaw, above the outer oblique ridge and the menial foramen ; 11, vertex, immediately over the coronal suture ; 12, temporal fossa, at the meeting of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and sphenoid bones; 13, zygoma; 14, mastoid process; 15, angle of the jaw ; 16, mental angle. In this skull there are fourteen teeth in each jaw, the wisdom teeth having not yet appeared. THE SUTURES. The sutures of the skull are best distingiiished when named from the bones between which they lie, as, for example, occipito-parietal, occipito- mastoid, fronto-ethmoid, parieto-sphenoid, <bc. Those which occur in the arch of the skull require more particular notice. The cranium is intersected superiorly by three great serrated sutures, two of which, placed transversely, correspond to the anterior and posterior margins of the parietal bones, while the third lies in the middle line and passes between them. On each side also there runs an inegular longitudinal line of suture from the malar to the