189 MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX AND PALATE. line of tlie pharynx behind, the lower fibres inclining downwards beneath the inferior constrictor, the highest ascending and overlapping the superior con- strictor, and the intermediate fibres nmning transversely. Tliis muscle is separated from tlie superior constrictor by the stylo-pharj-ngcus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, while between its origin and that of the inferior constrictor the superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane. Fibres of the middle constrictor have been observed to arise from the body of the OS hyoides, and the thyro-hyoid ligament (syndesmo-pliaryngeus of Douglas), and a few are frequently continued into it from the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. The two middle constrictors have been found connected behind to the base of the skull by a fibrous band (Albiwis). The superior constrictor arises by fibres attached in series from below upwards, a few to the side of the tongue, and others to the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, to the extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the jaw, to the pterygo-maxillary ligament which separates this muscle from the bucci- nator, and to the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate. From these different points the fibres of the muscle curve backwards, and are mostly blended with those of the corresponding muscle along the middle line, a few ending posteriorly in the aponeurosis which fixes the pharynx to the base of the skull. The upper margin curves round the levator palati mollis and the Eustachian tube ; and the space intervening between this concave margin of the constrictor and the base of the skull is closed by fibrous membrane. In contact with the outer surface of this muscle are the internal carotid artery, with the eighth and other large nerves; the middle constrictor, which overlaps a consider- able portion; and the stylo-pharyngeus, which descends to the pharynx between the two constrictors. It conceals the palato-pharyngeus and the tonsil, and is lined by mucous membrane. The stylo-pharyngeus, larger and longer than the other styloid muscles, arises from the inner surface of the styloid process, near the root, and pro- ceeding downwards and inwards to the side of the pharynx, passes under cover of the middle constrictor muscle, where it detaches some fibres to the constrictors, and gradually expanding, is connected with the palato-pharyn- geus muscle, and ends in the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. The external surface of this muscle is, in the upper part of its extent, in contact with the styloid process, the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and the external carotid artery ; in the lower, with the middle constrictor of the pharynx. Internally it rests on the internal carotid artery and jugular vein ; but more inferiorly it is in contact with the mucons membrane of the pharynx. The glosso-phaiyngeal nerve is close to the muscle, and crosses over it in turning forwards to the tongue. The salpimjo-pharymje.us (Santorini) is a small muscle, which, arising from the Eustachian tube, descends in the interior of the pharynx towards its back part, and, after joining with the palato-phaiyngeus, is lost in the rauscixlar structure of the cavity. It is often indistinct, and is frequently absent. The Soft Palate {vdum pendulum palati) is a movable curtain, continued backwards from the hard palate. It presents posterioriy a free pendulous margin, prolonged in the middle into a conical process, the umda, and at each side into two prominent curved lines, the anterior of which, the anterior pillar of the fauces, descends to the side of the tongue, while the posterior Ime, the posterior pillar of the fauces, extends into the pharynx : between the two 18 lodged the tonsil. The constricted passage between the anterior pillars