MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 202 The four to number of dorsal vertebrre to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also inconstant. A muscular band is sometimes seen Pig- 171. to stretch from this muscle across the axilla to its anterior part, where it terminates variously, in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-brachialis muscle, or in the fascia. Fig. 171.—Deeper View op the M0SOLES OP THE TrUNK, Shoulder akd Hip (after Bour- gery). i The trapezius, latissimus dorsi, deltoid, gluteus maximus and ex- ternal oblique muscles have been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenius capitis and splenius colli; 1', its lower end ; 2, upper part of the complexus near its in- sertion ; 3, levator anguli scapulse ; 4, rhomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus supe- rior ; 5, rhomboideus major; 6, part of the longissimus dorsi; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbalis; 7, part of the spi- nalis dorsi; 8, upper, and 8', lower part of the serratus posticus infe- rior ; 9, obliquus abdominis inter- nus ; 10, supraspinatus; 11, infra- spinatus ; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor; 13, teres major; 14, serratus magnus; 15, gluteus medius; 16, pyriformis; 17, portion of the obturator internus ; + and +, superior and inferior gemelli; 17', the pelvic portion of obturator in- ternus ; 18, the tendon of the obtu- rator externus passing to its inser- tion ; 19, quadratns femoris; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. The rhomboidei muscles are placed parallel to one another, and are separated only by a slight interval. They are ex- tended obliquely from the spinous processes of the lower cervical and upper dorsal ver- tebrsB to the base of the scapula. The rhomboideus mmor, a comparatively narrow muscle, arises from the spinous pro- cesses of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae and from the ligamentum nuchoe. It inclines