PECTORALIS MAJOR. 206 hyoid- 3, upper, 3', lower belly of the omo-hyoid; 4, levator anguli scapulas; 4', 4', scalene muscles; 5, anterior part of the trapezius ; b, deltoid; 7, upper part of the triceps brachii in the left arm ; 8, teres minor ; 9, teres major ; 10, latissimus dorsi; 11, pectoralis major ; 11', on the right side its clavicular portion ; 12, part of the pectoralis minor ; 13, Berratus raagnus ; 14, external oblique muscle of the abdomen; 15, placed on the xiphoid cartilage at the upper end of the linea alba ; 15', is placed on the umbilicus ; 16, is placed over the symphysis pubis, and at the lower end of the linea alba, above 16, the pyramidal muscles are seen shining through the abdominal aponeurosis; 15 to 17, the linea semilunaris at the outside of the rectus muscle, the transverse tendinous lines of which are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 18, part of the gluteus medius ; 19, tensor vaginre femoris ; 20, rectus femoris ; 21, sartorius ; 22, femoral part of the iliacus and psoas; 23, peclineus ; 24, adductor longus; 25, gracilis. On either side of 16, the external adominal ring is indicated. it is to be observed that the tendon of insertion of the pectoral part of the muscle passes higher than that of the clavicular part, extending as far as the base of the great tuberosity, where it sends a thin prolongation across the bicipital groove, and an offset to the head of the humerus. The lowest inserted portion of the muscle is closely united with the insertion of the deltoid. From its inferior margin an offset is prolonged to the fascia of the arm. The folded inferior border of the pectoralis major forms the anterior margin of the axilla; the superior runs parallel with that of the deltoid muscle, from which it is sepa- rated only by a slight interval which becomes wider towards the clavicle, and in which Fig. 173.—View o? some ob" THE DEEPER MuSOLBS OP THE Shoulder and Trunk, PROM BEFORE. ^ On the right side the pec- toralis major and external oblique muscles have been re- moved, a, coracoid process of scapula; 6, manubrium of sternum ; c, c, cartilage of the fifth ribs; d, ensiform portion of the sternum; 1, upper part of the. levator scapuljB muscle; 2, on the middle of the clavicle, points to the subclavius muscle ; 3, pectoralis minor; 4, subscapu- laris ; 4', its insertion into the lesser tuberosity of the hume- rus ; 5, coraco-brachialis; 6, coracoid, and 6', glenoid head of the biceps brachii, both cut short near the place where they nnite into one muscle ; 7, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, points by a line to the ten- don of the teres major, both pass- ing to their insertion inside the bicipital groove, both cut short; 8, folded tendon of the pectoralis major, cutshort; 9, inserted por- tion of the deltoid ; 10, upper part of the brachialis anticus at its origin, embracing the insertion of the deltoid Fig. 173. v;„«^„~. io ii. "cf.u 1 • 11) part of the middle and inner head of n^j, Je^ti°:bdtrs.*'' "-'^'^''''''''''''