27 THORAX AS A WHOLE. DEVELOPMENT. tremity, and is attached to the lower border of that which is next above it. Thfi last two are pointed and unattached. The first cartilage, which is directly united to the sternum without articular cavity, usually becomes more or less ossified m the adult male ; and the others likewise exhibit a considerable tendency to ossify m advanced life. This tendency is not so great in the female, in whom costal respiration is generally more extended than in the male. THE THORAX AS A WHOLE. The thorax is of a somewhat conical shape, with convex walls. Its upper inlet is contracted, and bounded by the first dorsal vertebra, the first pair of ribs and the manubrium of the sternum. Its inferior margin curves down- wards and backwards on each side from the ensiform process to the twelfth Fig. 23.—Front view of the Thokax, Fig- 23. snowiNG THE Sternum Costal Carti- lages, Ribs, and Dorsal VERTEBRiB. i 1, the manubrium, or first piece of the sternum ; 2, is close to the place of union of the first costal cartilage ; 3, the clavicular notch ; 4, the middle of the body of the sternum; 5, the ensiform piece; 6, the groove on the lower border of the ribs ; 7, the vertebral end of the ribs; 8, the neck; 9, tubercle; 10, costal cartilage; 12, the first rib ; 13, its tuberosity ; 14, the first dorsal vertebra ; 15, the eleventh ; 16, the twelfth rib. rib. Its longitudinal axis is directed upwards and slightly backwards. Its transverse diameter, at its widest part, greatly exceeds that from before back- wards. The latter is shortened in the middle line by the projection of the vertebral column, but on each side of the column a considerable ex- tension of the cavity is produced by the backward direction of the posterior parts of the ribs, and thus the weight of the body is thrown further back and more equally distributed round the vertebral column. At the same time a broad furrow is produced between the spines of the vertebrae and the angles of the ribs, in which are placed the erectores spinse muscles. DEVELOPMENT OP THE RIBS AND STERNUM. The first origin of the posterior parts of the ribs in connection with the primordial vertebrae has been already mentioned. In the second month cartilage appears in them, deposited independently of the vertebrfe. Difierent opinions have been held as to whether the tubercle or the head of the rib is the primary point of its connection with the vertebra : it appears probable that the whole extent from head to tubercle is an expansion of the original connection. (KoUiker, " Entwicklungsgescliichte," fig. 81 ; Rathke, " Entwick. der Natter;" Huxley, "On the Theory of the Vertebrate Skull," p. 74.) After becoming cartilaginous, the ribs pass round in the visceral wall, and, according to Rathke, before reaching the front, the first seven on