278 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. external to tlae lower part of the origin of the adductor brevis, from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and from the tuberosity of the ischium near the pubic arch. The muscular fibres diverge from their origin, somewhat like the ribs of a fiin from their central pivot; those from the pubes, shorter than the rest, pass transversely outwards, and are inserted below the linea quadrati into the line prolonged from the linea aspera to the great trochanter; others pass with increasing degrees of obliquity downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and into a part of its internal bifurcation below ; finally, some of the fibres descend almost vertically, forming the inner border of the muscle, and terminate in a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the tuberosity of the inner condyle of the femtu:. Below the level of the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, between the tendinous and fleshy portions of the insertion of the muscle, an interval is left for the transmission of the femoral vessels backwards into the popliteal space, and along the femoral attachment the insertion is interrupted by three or more tendinous arches through which pass the perforating arteries. This muscle is in contact with the long and short adductors and the vastus internus in front, with the hamstring muscles and gluteus maximus behind, with the gi'acilis muscle internally, and with the obturator externus and quadratus femoris mxiscles superiorly. ACTIOKS OF THE MUSCLES OP THE HIP AND THIGH. The gluteus maximus muscle is the chief extensor of the hip-joint. By means of it the bent thigh is brought into a line with the body; but its most important action, and that in connection with which it is so largely developed in the human subject, is to extend the trunk upon the thigh when supported on the ground by the limbs, and in so doing the muscles of both sides act in combination. The upper part of the muscle has an abducting, and the lower part an adducting power upon the limb. Although the full contraction of the glutei maximi is required to bring the body into the erect posture, it is not necessary for its maintenance, that being effected chiefly by the ten- sion of cei-tain ligaments and fascisB passing over the joints, and the body in that pos- ture being so poised that the centre of gravity of the trunk is placed slightly behind the vertical plane passing through the middle of the hip-joints. The gluteus medius and minimus are powerful abductors of the thigh, and along with the tensor vagina femoris, come principally into action in supporting the body on one limb, which is done to a certain extent in each step in walking. Their anterior fibres draw for- wards the great trochanter, and rotate the limb inwards, and the more the thigh is flexed the greater the number of fibres which will exercise this action. The tensor vagince fevioris is generally held to assist the action of the other muscles by making tense the fascia lata. It likewise aids the preceding muscles in rotating the limb inwards : its action in this respect is exactly opposed by the upper fibres of the gluteus maximus, which fibres, together with the tensor vaginae femoris, being con- tinued into a band of the fascia lata descending to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, must act as supporters of the thigh at the knee-joint, and are considered by Meyer (op. cit. p. 222) to act as extensors of the knee. The pyriformis, obturator internus and gemelli muscles support the hip-joint poste- riorly, and rotate the limb outwards. Their greatest contraction is admitted when the thigh is extended and the toes are directed outwards; they may be supposed there- fore to give stability to the erect posture. The quadratus femoris is partly an adductor and partly a rotator outwards, iins muscle, as well as the pyriformis, obturator internus and gemelli, and obturator externus, come to be extensors when the thigh is strongly flexed. The obturator externus has its origin and insertion most approximated when t le thigh is flexed, adducted, and rotated outwards, as is the case in the uppermost ot tiic two limbs when we cross the knees in sitting. It supports the hip-jomt posteriorly and inferiorly, and is a rotator outwards.