MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 2S8 between tliem. This divided tendon, with its additional muscles, conceals the adductor polUcis, the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, the trausvcrsus pedis the interossei muscles, and the plantar arterial arch. The flexor lomjus pollicis pedis arises from the two inferior thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, except for an inch at its lowest part; from the intermuscular septum interposed between it and the peronei; and from the aponeurosis common to it and the flexor longus digitorum, and which covers the tibialis posticus. The muscular fibres, passing obliquely backwards and downwards, end in a tendon on their posterior surface. This tendon traverses a groove behind the tibia, and another at the back of the astragalus, being bound down to those bones by fibrous and synovial sheaths. Thence passing forwards below the sustentaculum tali, it is connected, in the sole of the foot, by a tendinous slip, with, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, by which it is crossed, and proceeds in a fibrous sheath over the first phalanx of tlie great toe to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Below the ankle the tendon of this muscle is separated from those of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum by an interval of more than half an inch, in which are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerves. The tibialis posticus muscle, placed between the two long flexor muscles, arises from the whole interosseous membrane except for two inches at the lower end, and from the adjacent surfaces of the tibia and fibula, the tibial attachment extending from the superior tibio-fibular articulation to a point at a lower level than that of the flexor longus digitorum, and the attach- ment to the fibula extending along the three middle fifths of that bone ; it also arises from the aponeurosis derived from the adjacent muscles, which covers it. The muscular fibres end in a strong flat tendon, which, passing between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes, turns forwards in a groove beneath the internal malleolus, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. Fig. 219.—Tkansveuse Section op tue Eight Foot between the Tarsus and Metatarsus, showing the tendinous and aponeurotio StRUOTUEES FROM THE FilONT. This iigure is also designed to show the trans- verse arch formed by the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones, a, articular surface of the internal cuneiform bone for the first metatarsal; b, the middle cuneiform ; c, the external cuneiform ; d and e, the surfaces of the cuboid bone for the fourth and fifth metatarsal boues; between these bones ai-e seen the strong interosseous and plantar ligaments which bind them together; 1, slip of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, which passes on to its insertion in the first metatarsal bone ; 2, tendon of the extensor longus pollicis ; 3, slip of the extensor brevis digitorum to the great toe ; 3', remainder of the extensor brevis digitorum ; 4, four slips of the extensor communis digitorum longus ; 6, pcroneus tertius ; 6, peroneus brevis ; 7, peroneus longus cut obliquely where it is emerging from the sheath below the cuboid bone ; beside 7, the space between the cuneiform bones and the subjacent fascise and tendons is occupied by loose fatty tissue; 8, tendon of the flexor longus pollicis ; 9, tendon of the flexor com- munis digitorum longus, with the slip of union from the flexor pollicis ; 10, flexor accessorius ; 11, fleshy part of the abductor pollicis ; 12, flexor brevis digitorum ; 13, abductor minimi digiti.