MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 216 wards, and ends in a flat tendon wMcli turns over the radius, and is inserted into a rough surface at the middle of the outer side of that bone. Fig. 179. Fig. 179.—Superficial Muscles of tdk Forearm AND Hand, seen from tde front. \ 3, biceps flexor cubiti; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponeurotic slip ; 4, bracbialis anticus; 4', its inner and lower portion ; 5', lower part of tbe triceps, seen rising from behind the intermuscular septum ; 6, pronator radii teres; 7, flexor carpi radialis; 8, palmaris longus, passing at 8' into the palmar aponeurosis; 9, flexor carpi ulnaris; 10, supinator longus; between 10 and 3, + marks a part of the supinator brevis; 11, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 12, extensor primi intemodii; 13, lower part of the flexor digitorum sublimis ; 14, flexor longus pollicis; 15, small part of the flexor digi- torum profundus; 16, palmaris brevis, lying on the muscles of the little finger; 17, abductor pollicis. The pronator teres is placed superficially in the greater part of its extent; but towards its inser- tion it is crossed by the radial artery and nerve, and the supinator longus muscle. The ulnar bor- der is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus: the radial border forms the inner boundary of the angular space at the bead of the arm, in which are placed the brachial artery, the median nerve, and the tendon of the biceps muscle. The pronator teres covers the flexor sub- limis digitorum; the ulnar artery passes behind the whole muscle, and the median nerve between its two heads. Additional fibres frequently arise from the inter- muscular septum above the inner condyloid emi- nence of the humerus, or from the supracondy- loid process when that is present. This peculiarity is sometimes associated with a change in the direction of the brachial artery. The flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the inter- muscular septa placed between it and the pronator teres on one side, the palmaris longus on the other, and the flexor sublimis pos- teriorly. The fleshy fibres end in a flat tendon, a little below the middle of the forearm. Arrived at the carpus, the tendon occupies a special fibrous compartment situated in the outer part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and runs through a groove in the OS trapezium, to which it is bound by a thin fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the extremity of the second metacarpal bone. A fasciculus from the inserted tendon sometimes passes to the third and even to the fourth metacarpal bone. In the lower half of the forearm the radial artery is placed to the outer side ot the tendon.