BONES OF THE HEAD. 60 fiontal process the superior maxillariea from the maxillary lobes, and the lachrymals probably from the lateral frontal lobes. ' Kg. 67, Fig. 53. Fig. 67.—T HE Lower or Cartilaginous part of THE Cranium op a Chick on the sixth day (ft-om Huxley, Elements of Coinpar, Anat. Fie. 57, F';. 1, 1, chorda dorsalis ; 2, the shaded portion here and forwards is the cartilage of the base of the skull; at 2 the occipital part; at 3 the prolongations of cartilage into the anterior part of the skull called trubecidce cranii; 4, the pituitary space ; 5, parts of the labyrinth. Formation of the face.—In studying the early de- velopment of the bones of the face it is necessary likewise to take into consideration the ossicles of the ear, viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes ; for al- though in the adult these ossicles are so minute, and Fig. 58.—View from below op the Carti- laginous Base op the Cranium with its Ossific Centres op a Human F<etus eight inches long (about five months, from Huxley, as before. Fig. 59, slightly al- tered, the bone being dotted to distinguish it from the cartilage, which is shaded with lines). 1, the basilar part, 2, the condyloid or lateral parts, and 3, 4, the tabular or superior part of the occipital surrounding the foramen magnum; 6, centres of the pre-sphenoid on the inside of the optic foramen ; 6, centres of the post-sphenoid; 7, centres of the lesser wings or orbito-spbenoid ; 8, septal cartilage of the nose ; 9 & 10 parts of the labyrinth. so entirely contained within the cavity of the tympanum that they have not been included in the description of the skull, they are im- portantly connected in their origin with a number of other bones. In each of the tliree first visceral arches a strip of firm tissue, which becomes cartilaginous, appears. That of the first nrch is the most perfect, and is divided into three parts: the proximal part passes forwards some distance in contact with the basis cranii, it becomes ossified without passing through a cartilagi- nous stage, and from it are developed the palate bone and internal pterygoid plate ; the middle part, which is very small, forms the body of the incus, and gives off two processes, the long and short processes of that ossicle; the remaining part, much the largest of the three, is prolonged downwards to meet its fellow of the opposite side at the extremity of the arch, and is named Meckel's cartilage after its first describer. (Meckel, " Handbuch der Mensch. Anat.") The upper extremity of Meckel's carti- lage forms the malleus, the handle of which is developed as a process directed back- wards. The lower portion is destined ultimately to dwindle away, but in the first instance increases in size, and forms a rod, on the external surface of which the lower jaw is formed. It can be detected on the internal a.spect of the ramus of the jaw. up to the eighth month of fcetal life, but its only permanent vestige is the processus gracilis of the malleus, which, when the tympanic cavity becomes closed inferiorly by the growth of the tympanic plate, remains with its extremity fixed in the fissure of Glaser. The proximal extremity of the cartilage of the second visceral arch forms the stapes, and in succession downwards from this are found the stapedius muscle, the styloid process of the temporal bone, the stylo hyoid ligament, and the small cornu of the hyoid bone. The only permanent portions of the cartilage of the third visceral arch are the great cornu and the body of the hyoid bone, (lleichert " Ucbcr