ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 124 and the roots of tlio spines. Their outer margins are close to the articu- lating processes ; their inner margins lie in contact in the middle line, and in that situation the ligaments are thickest Fig. 112. Fig. 111.—The Aiioiies of three Dorsal Ver- TEDUiE, SHEN FROM BEFORE, TO SHOW THE LlQA- MENTA SOBFLAVA. ^ The bodies of the vertebrse have been removed by sawing through the pedicles, showing the articular capsules and the ligaoienta subflava. The ligamenta subflava do not exist be- tween the occiput and the atlas, nor between the latter and the axis; common fibrous membrane supplies their place in these two spaces, constituting posterior occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. The interspinous ligaments, thin and rather membranous, have an attachment extending from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, aud connect the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next below it. They are best seen in the lumbar region, and are least developed in the neck. The supraspinous ligaments consist of small compressed bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the Fig. 112.—Antero-Posterior Vertical Sec- tion OP the upper part op the Vertebral Column, and part op the Occipital Bone, SHOWING THE ARTICULATIONS (after Amold). 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrse ; 1', anterior atlanto-occipital ligament ; 2, from this figure upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies ; 2', the continuation of the preceding and the appa- ratus ligamentosus lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone ; 3, 3, 3, these figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd and 7th cervical and 6th dorsal vertebrae ; the ligamenta subflava are to be seen stretching between the laminse; 4, 4, placed upon two of the interspinous ligaments ; 4', divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and ligaments of the arches ; 5, 5, supraspinous ligaments ; 6, ligamentum nuchaa ; X , its upper extremity at the occipitiil tube- rosity ; X X , its lower extremity terminating in the supraspinous ligaments of the upper dorsal vertebras. spinous processes, and form a continuous chain from the seventh cervical vertebra to the spine of the sacrum. Tlie posterior fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the thii-d or fourth