25 RIBS. Characters common to most of tuk ribs.—These are best marked in the ribs near the middle of the series. The posterior extremity is thickened, and is termed the head or caj/itidwn ; it presents a supei-ior and an inferior oblique articular surface for articulation with the bodies of two vertebras, and, between them, a slight ridge, to which the iuterarfcicular ligament is attached. At a-little distance from the head, and separated from it by the neck, is the tubercle, which is directed backwards, and presents a smootli surface for arti- culation with the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected, and, outside that, a roughness marking the insertion of the posterior costo-trausverso ligament. The part termed the neck, between the head and the tubercle, is slenderer than the rest of the rib. The whole extent beyond the tubercle constitutes the body. It becomes laterally compressed, and wider from above downwards, towards the anterior extremity. Outside the tubercle, between it and the most convex part of the body, is a rough luie, which coi-responds to the outer border of the erector spiniB muscle, and which is termed the angle, because at this point the curve of the rib is more sudden, and changes from an outward and backward to a forward direction. The inferior border presents on its inner aspect a groove, in which lie the intercostal vessels and nerve, and which is best marked opposite the angle, and disappears in front. The anterior extremity is hollowed at its tip into an oval pit, into which the costal cartilage is implanted. Fig. 22. Fig. 22.—The First, Sixth, and Twelfth Ribs op the Right Side. ^ A, the sixth seen from above and the outer side ; B, the same rib viewed from below ana within ; G, the first rib viewed from above and without: D, the twelfth rib viewed from above and within. 1, the head in C & D, the ridge between the two facets of the head in R ; 2, the neck • rf, the tubercle, in B presenting the rough tubercle and the smooth facet for articulation with the transverse process ; 4, the lower border with the ridge and subcostal -roove • 5 the upper border ; 6, the oval pit for the attachment of the costal cartilage ; 7, Tn the first nb, 0, the scalene tubercle, aiid near it the smooth groove for the subclavian artery. Inclination and Cwtjcs.—There is a general inclination of the ribs downwards from the head to the anterior extremity. This slope is greatest between the head and angle ; beyond that point it is diminished, and it is again increased further forwards, and diminished at the anterior extremity The curve of the ribs is much more marked towards the back part than' L