THE BLOOD. Royal Society, Dec. 8, 1859. to plasticity of its substance ; and the case has been compared to the section of a soap-bubble into two or more without destruction or collapse. Dr. W. Roberts,* who makes this comparison, has brought forward some curious observations on the effects of solutions of magenta and of tannin on the corpuscles of man and various animals, which seem to him to speak for the presence of an envelope. It must, I think, be admitted that the question is open to debate, but it could not be settled by even a miich more extended discussion than could suitably be introduced here. The distension by water is caused by the thinner exterior fluid passing by endosmosis into the thicker matter of the corpuscle; and precisely the opposite effect may be produced by immersing the corpuscles in a fluid of a sufficiently high degree of concentration, so as to cause the predominant current to pass from within oittwards. Accordingly, on using a strong solution of salt or of sugar, the corpuscles will shrink and become thinner ; and, no doubt, the variations in plumpness which they often naturally present, are owing to differences in the degree of concentration of the surrounding liquid. The niicleus (fig. XVI.,3) is rather more than a third of the length of the cor- puscle ; it appears, especially after being exposed to the action of vinegar, to be composed of tolerably large granules, and, when so treated at least, it is quite free from colour. But it must be remembered that it is only after exposure of the corpuscles that a nucleus becomes apparent ; nothing of the kind is observable when they are seen within the vessels, so that some think the nuclei are formed by a sort of precipitation or consolidation in the substance of the corpuscles when they are withdrawn from the animal. The envelope is supposed to be an exceedingly fine, homogeneous, and pellucid membrane. The coloured content of the corpuscle is a pale reddish matter; not liquid but obviously of a soft and yielding nature, for the corpuscles alter their shape on the slightest pressure, as is beautifully seen while they move within the vessels; they are also elastic, for they readily recover their original form again. It must be remarked that the blood-corpuscles when viewed singly appear very faintly coloured, and it is only when collected in considerable quantity that they produce a strong deep red, A structure similar to that shown in the large blood-disks of amphibia, may be demonstrated in many other instances, and by analogy has been inferred to exist in all, man not excepted. But although the blood-cor- puscles of man and mammalia are nucleated in the early stages of their formation, it is now satisfactorily established that in their perfect or final condition they are destitute of nuclei. As to an envelope, some observers, who admit its presence in the red corpuscles of oviparous vertebrata, doubt of its existence in mammalian blood-disks. From long continued and careful observation, Mr. Gulliver concludes that the mammalian red cor- puscle consists of two parts ; viz., 1, a tegumentaiy membranous frame of colourless, homogeneous, structureless substance, containing, 2, a semi- fluid, viscid, coloured matter. The effect of water is to extract the easHy • Proceedinss of the Royal Society, vol. xii. p. 481. Hensen, who also holds to the belief of an envelope, thinks that the red corpuscle of the frog contains protoplasin m a layer next the envelope, and also round the nucleus, and elsewhere a co oured mtra- ceUular fluid. His observations show that the contents may be separated into two substances, but they are by no means conchisive as to the alleged natm-al d.str.but.on of these substances within the corpuscle. Zeitschr. fur wiss. Zoologie 1861 p. 263 ) For somrinSsting observatious by Dr. W. Addison, F.R.S., on the curious effects produced on red blood-corpuscles by immersion in sherry-wiue, see Proceedings of the