167 MYOLOGY. three cuneiform bones, together with the three inner toes; the l ead of tl^ej^tj^-Sa^^s being the key stone, and being supported in its position not by f as would be the case in an arch of mason-work, but by them in connection with the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The °"ter arch is formed by the os calcis, cuboid bone, and two outer toes, and is supported by he strong inferior calcaneo- cuboid li-amcnts. Thus the calcaneo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid igaments are stretched°by the whole weight of the body bearing down upon the arch, and prevent the too great flattening of the instep; an action in which they are assisted however, by the plantar aponeurosis. The transverse arching of the foot is most marked along the line of tarso-metatarsal articulations, and is mamtained by the wedge-shape of the bones and by inferior ligaments. The weight of the body, falling upon the balls of the toes when the heel is raised, tends to spread out the metatarsal bones at their distal extremities, and to flatten the transverse arch, which recovers its position when the pressure is removed. Between the astragalus and the calcaneum only one kind of motion is possible, the centre of which is the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament, and is of such a nature, that when the posterior part of the OS calcis slides inwards and upwards beneath the astragalus, its cuboid extremity moves downwards and outwards. A certain amount of gliding movement is also allowed between the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and that most considerably between the cuboid bone and outer toes. Thus it happens that if the foot is flexed against the leg, and then is gradually extended by force applied to the toes, as by the action of the flexores digitorum muscles, the first part of the movement is accomplished at the ankle, and consists of extension, with only a slight inward turning of the toes; further extension is accomplished by movement between the calcaneum and astra- galus, and is accompanied by depression of the outer edge of the foot; and after that a little more extension, accompanied by more considerable depression of the outer edge of the foot, is efiected at the tarso-metatarsal articulations. The direction of the movement of extension of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal articulations is upwards and outwards, so that although the great toe is in a line with the inner edge of the foot when resting on the ground, it is no longer so wlien over-extended, as, for instance, when supported by a shoe. Section III.—MYOLOGY. Under the title Myology will be brouglit the systematig description of the form, position, and relations of the muscles of the body with their tendons, and in the same section it will be convenient to include that of the fasciae and aponeuroses. As many of the muscles consist of tendinous as well as muscular parts, the description of the tendons and their sheaths necessarily forms a part of that of the muscles ; and farther, as it is impossible to separate the exami- nation of the attf^chments of a muscle, or of groups of muscles, from the study of the motions produced by them, the statement of the action of the muscles will accompany their anatomical description. In the description of the muscles, it is customary to state the attach- ments of their opposite ends under the names of origin and insertion ; the first term being usually applied to the more fixed or proximal, and the second to the more movable or remote attachment ; but it is to be observed, that it is sometimes difiicult to lay down a rule for the correct use of these terms, and that in almost all instances it is of importance to consider the action of a muscle as it may affect the motions of the parts attached to both of its extremities. As the muscles belong to the double symmetrical parts, it will be under- stood that it is suflacieut, as in the bones and joints, to describe those occupying one side of the body.