MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 274 as far as tlie knee; below this it turns obliquely forwards to its place of attachment. Ihe tendon of insertion, broad and expanded, covers the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus (a synovial bursa being interposed), and gives off one expansion wluch strengthens the capsule of the knee-joint by becoming incorporated with it, and another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Fig. 210. Fig. 210.—Superficial Musoi/ES Front of the Thigh, -t OK THE a, anterior part of the crest of the ilium; 6, symphysis pubis; c, patella; d, is below the anterior tuberosity of the tibia ; 1, points to the insertion of the external oblique muscle into the iliac crest; 2, its aponeurosis at the linea semilunaris ; 3, the external abdominal ring; 4, part of the gluteus medius ; 5, tensor vaginse femoris at the place of its insertion into a portion of the fascia lata, which has been removed between 5 and 5', which latter part is seen descending to be attached to the tibia and fibula; 6, the sartorius ; 6', the insertion of the sartorius ; 7, psoas and iliacus conjoined; 8, pectineus ; 9, adductor longus ; 10, gracilis; 11, part of the adductor magnus; 12, vastus externus ; 13, rectus femoris ; 14, vastus internus ; 15, small part of the biceps flexor cruris. The sartorius is covered only by the fascia lata and the integument. It passes over the iliacus and rectus femoris muscles, the femoral vessels, the pectineus, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, vastus internus, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. The inner border of this muscle and the most projecting part of the adductor longus form the sides, and Poupart's ligament forms the base of a triangular space in the upper third of the thigh, through the middle of which the femoral artery passes. This frequently receives the name of Scarpa's triangle. The quadriceps extensor cruris, the extensor muscle of the knee, is divisible into four parts, one of which, the rectus femoiis, descends from the hip bone and remains distinct, while the other three, distinguished one from the other only by the arrangement of their fibres, cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the thigh bone, from which they arise. a. The rectus femoris, extended in a sti'aight line from the pelvis to the patella, arises by two tendons, one of which is attached to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and the other, united to the first within an inch of that point, is attached horizontally in the groove above the upper part of the brim of the acetabulum. From the prolongation of the tendon so formed the muscular fibres arise peimately, and turning outwards and