BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 102 suiface of the shaft seem concave in that part. It presents two sharp 14 10- J6- 17 .10 18 external portion of this surface Fig. 94.—Femur op a Male from behind. | 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 13, the same as in the preceding figure; 2', pit on the head for the round ligament of the hip-joint; 3', the back of the neck, showing a slight groove of the obturator externus muscle as it passes over the capsular ligament and neck ; 14, rough impression of the attach- ment of the gluteus maximus muscle in the upper and outer continuation of the linea aspera ; 15, two lines running up towards the lesser trochanter from the linea aspera, marking the attachments of the adductor brevis and pectineus muscles ; 16, flat elevated surface of the linea aspera; 17, flat triangular popliteal surface between the lower divisions of the linea aspera ; 18, intercondyloid or crucial notch ; 19, foramen for the nutritious or medullary vessels. margins and a flat intervah The external division of its superior bifurcation passes up to the great trochanter, and in its course is strongly marked where the gluteus maximus is attached ; the internal division terminates in front of the small trochanter. The inferior divisions termi- nate at the tuberosities of the condyles, and enclose between them a flat triangular surface of bone, which is free from mus- cular attachments, and forms the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. Towards the superior part of the linea aspera is the foramen for the medullary vessels directed upwards into the bone. The inferior extremity presents two rounded eminences, the condyles, united anteriorly, but separated posteriorly by a deep inter-condyloid fossa. Their greatest prominence is directed backwards, and their curve, as it increases towards that part, may be compared to that of a partially uncoiled piece of watch-spring. The ex- ternal condyle is the broadest and most prominent in front ; the internal is the longest and most prominent inferiorly. One large articular surface, coated con- tinuously with cartilage, extends over both condyles, but opposite the front of thei inter-condyloid fossa it is divided by two slight linear depressions into three parts, an elevated surface on each side of the fossa for articulation with the tibia; and a grooved anterior surface for the patella. The patellar surface is of a trochlear form, being marked by a vertical hollow ; the is the most prominent, and rises highest.