ARTICULATIONS OF THE TELVIS. 148 tlie ihum which projects beyond the dorsum of the sacrum, A superficial band extoudiug downwards from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third or fourth piece of the sacrum, in a direction diflfereut from the other fibres, is distinguished as the ohlique sacro-iliac Iwjament. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of thin irregular fibres passing between the sacrum and os innominatum on their pelvic surfaces. Fig. 136, Fig. 136.—Articulations of the Pelvis and Hip-Joint, seen from before. The ANTERIOR HALF OF THE CAPSULAR LiGAMENT OF THE LEFT HiP-JoiNT HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND THE FemUR ROTATED OUTWARDS. ^ 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae passing down over the two lowest lumbar vertebrae to the front of the sacrum and coccyx ; '2, ilio-lumbar liga- ment ; 3, anterior sacro-iliac ligament; between 2 and 3, on the right side, the sacro- vertebral ligament is shown, but not with sufficient distinctness ; 4, placed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen, points to the lesser sacro-soiatic ligament; 5, a portion of the great sciatic ligament; 6, the anterior ligament of the symphysis pubis ; 7, the obturator mem- brane or ligament ; 8, the capsular ligament of the right hip-joint: the figure is placed on its ilio-femoral band ; 9, the upper part of the divided capsular ligament of the left hip- joint near the place of its attachment to the border of the acetabulum ; 10, placed on the OS pubis of the left side above the transverse ligament of the acetabular notch. The head of the femur is withdrawn partially from the socket, so as to show the round ligament stretched from the transverse ligament. The sacko-sciatic ligaments.—The posterior, or great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, elongated, broad, and triangular, is placed at the inferior and poste- rior part of the pelvis, whose lower aperture it assists in closing. Its base or broader part is attached to the postero-inferior iliac spine and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; whilst its other extremity is fixed along the inner surface of the ischial tuberosity, where it expands somewhat, and sends upwards and forwards along the margin of the ischial ramus a falci- form process, the border of which is continuous with the obturator fascia, forming the inferior attachment of that structure. The anterior, or small sacro-sciatic ligament, much shorter and thinner than the preceding one, in front of which it lies, is attached by its base to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, where its fibres are blended with