MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 212 it™-.! ^» • a* lt» lo^^ part by the latlssimus dorsi, and at ro^,S 1 It 18 crossed by the long head of the triceps. The outer side is sur- roimaea by tlie latissimus dorsi; and the anterior surface is concealed in the upper part ot Its extent by the tendon of that muscle. The inner border of the muscle lorms tie outer margm of a triangular space, of which the other sides are the upper part ot the humerus, and the axillary border of the scapula covered before and Denina by the subscapular and teres minor muscles; this triangle is divided by ine long bead of the triceps into a superior or external quadrilateral, and an inferior or internal triangular compartment. Through the quadrilateral space pass back- wards the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve; and in the trian- gular subdivision the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes round the margin ot the scapula into the infraspinous fossa. The scapular slip of the latissimus dorsi arises in connection with the teres major. AoTiONS.—The deltoid muscle raises the arm from the side as far as the structure of the shoulder-joint permits: that is, till it is at right angles with the trunk. Further elevation of the upper limb is efiected chiefly by the trapezius; and it may be remarked, that the insertion of that muscle corresponds exactly in extent to the origin of the deltoid, so that the two muscles may be considered continuous in structure and in action. The anterior fibres of the deltoid combine with the pecto- ralis major to draw the humerus forwards; the posterior assist in drawing it back- wards. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis muscles being placed more closely round the joint, when acting in concert with the deltoid probably give steadiness and precision, while the deltoid gives the main elevating force to the movement. The supraspinatus simply elevates: the infraspinatus and sub- scapularis carry the arm backwards or forwards when it is raised, and rotate it outwards or inwards when hanging by the side. The teres major rotates the raised humerus inwards, the teres minor outwards: aoting together they assist in depressing the arm. MUSCLES OF THE ARM. The coraco-hrachialis muscle, elongated in form, arises from tlie tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, between the pectoralis minor and the short head of the biceps, with which latter it is for a short distance conjoined. It is inserted into the inner border of the humerus near its middle, in a linear impression of from two to three inches in length, between the origin of the triceps and the brachialis anticus. From its insertion a tendinous offset is prolonged upwards to the head of the humerus. This muscle is usually pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve; its outer border is in contact with the biceps muscle, and its inner with the brachial artery, by which it is crossed obliquely near its insertion. It lies in front of the tendons of the subscapu- laris, latissimus dorsi and teres major, and is covered by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. The biceps flexor cuhiti muscle has two heads of origin of unequal length : one of these, the internal or short head, arises conjointly with the coraco- brachialis from the coracoid process of the scapula by a tendon which is soon continued into muscle; the other, the long head, arises by a cylindrical tendon from the upper border of the glenoid ligament, within the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and this tendon passing over the head of the humerus leaves the joint by the bicipital groove, and gradually enlarges into the fleshy head as it descends. The muscular fibres from those two heads, lying side by side, unite to form an elongated and thick belly, occupying the middle and lower part of the arm : the muscle then suddenly becoming narrower I), little above the bend of the elbow, is continued into the flat rounded