107 TARSAL BONES. THE CALCANEUM, The calcanoum, or os calcis, is the largest bone of the foot. Projecting downwards and backwards it forms the heel. Above it articulates with the astra-alus, and in front with the cuboid bone. Its principal axia extends forwards and outwards from its posterior extremity to the cuboid bone. Fig. 100.—Right Foot viewed from above, showing Fig. 100. ITS Dorsal aspect. J a, scaphoid bone; b, astragalus; c, os calcis; d, its great tuberosity ; e, internal or first cuneiform; /, middle cuneiform; g, external cuneiform ; h, cuboid bone. I to V, the series of metatarsal bones ; 1, 3, first and terminal phalanges of the great toe ; 1, 2, 3, are placed opposite to the first, second, and terminal phalanges of the second toe. The large posterior extremity, or tuber calcis, presents inferiorly two tubercles, which rest upon the ground, and the internal of which is largest : the rest of its surface, looking backwards, is divided into a lower part, which receives the attachment of the tendo A chillis, and an upper part, smooth and less prominent, separated from that tendon by a synovial bursa. The part in front of the tuber forms a slightly constricted neck. The internal surface of the bone, traversed by the plantar vessels and nerves and the flexor tendons, is deeply concave, and its concavity is surmounted in front by a flattened process, the sustentaculum tali, which projects inwards near the anterior extremity of the bone, in a line with its upper surface, and presents inferiorly a groove occupied by the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis. The superior surface presents two articular facets for the astragalus : the anterior of these is placed over the sustentaculum, and is flat ; the other, external and posterior to this, and larger, is separated from it by a rough furrow, giving attachment to the interosseous ligament, and is convex from without inwards and back- wards. In front of this latter facet is a rough depression, from which the extensor brevis digitonim takes origin. The anterior extremity articulates, by a surface slightly concave in the vertical and convex in the transverse direction, with the cuboid bone ; and internal to this, in front of the sus- tentaculum tali, it gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The inferior surface, projecting in a rough anterior tubercle, gives attach- ment to the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The external surface is subcutaneous, and on the whole smooth, but presents in its fore-part superficial grooves traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles. THE astragalus. The astragalus or talus, irregular in form, receives the weight of the body from the leg. It articulates with the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the scaphoid in front. Its longest axis is directed forwards and inwards. Its convex anterior extremity is called the head, and the circular groove behind it the neck The superior articular surface, placed behind