BONES OF THE HEAD. The ascending or wasaJ process projects upwards from the anterior and interHal pai-t of the bone. Its surfaces are continuous with the external and internal surfaces of the bone ; its internal surface, towards its summit, IS rough for articulation with the lateral mass of the ethmoid ; its anterior border is rough for articulation with the nasal bone, and its summit serrated for articulation with the frontal. Posteriorly, it articulates by a linear edge with the lachrymal bone ; and external to this it presents a well-marked groove for the lachrymal sac, the lachrymal groove, which is continued downwards on the inner surface of the bone, between this process and the orbital plate, and is converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones. • The orbital surface passes forwards to the margin of the orbit, and back- wards to the spheno-maxillary fissure, and is bounded externally by the surface for the malar bone, and internally by the lachrymal groove and a rough edge which articulates with the lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones. It is inter- rupted by a groove which commences in its posterior border, and leads for- wards into a complete canal, the infra-orbital, of which the infra-orbital foramen is the anterior termination. At the inner and fore-part of the orbi- tal surface is a minute depression, which gives origin to the inferior oblique muscle of the eye. The nasal surface presents an oblique rough line beneath the ascending process, for articulation with the inferior tui-binated bone, and behind that process the lachrymal groove. Behind the lachrymal groove is the large opening into the sinus ; below and behind the sinus the surface is rough for articulation with the palate bone ; and traversing the lower part of this roughness is a smoother groove, passing downwards and forwards from the posterior margin, and completing with the palate bone the posterior palatine canal. The maxillary sinus, or antrum of Sighmore, is a large cavity lying above the molar teeth and below the orbital plate, Uued in the fresh state by mucous membrane, and communicating with the middle meatus of the nose. Its orifice is considerably diminished by contiguous bones, viz., by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the inferior turbinated bone, and the palate bone. THE PALATE BONE. The palatal or palate bone forms the back part of the palate, and the lateral wall of the nose between the superior maxillary bone and the internal pterygoid process. In form it has a general resemblance to the letter l, consisting of a horizontal and a vertical plate and three processes, viz., the pyramidal process, extending outwards and backwards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates, and the orbital and sphenoidal processes, surmounting the vertical plate. The palate bone articulates with its fellow, and with the superior maxillary, ethmoid, sphenoid, vomer, and inferior turbinated bone. The horizontal or palate plate presents posteriorly a thin free bor- der, forming the limit of the hard palate, and giving attachment to the soft palate or velum ; anteriorly it articulates with the palate plate of the superior maxUlary bone, and internally by a thick serrated border with its fellow of the opposite side, forming with it a ridge for articulation with the vomer, contiuuous with that of the superior maxillaries ; externally, at its jimction with the vertical plate, it is grooved by the extremity of the posterior palatine canal. Its superior surface is smooth, and forms the back