197 DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. layer of considerable firmness intervenes between the aponeurosis of tbe occipito-frontalis muscle and the skin, uniting them together : from the surface of the occipital part of the muscle it becomes continuous with a superficial covering of the posterior muscles of the neck, and on either side of the epicranial aponeurosis it descends over the temporal fascia, and contains between its laminte the external muscles of the ear, with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. In the face, the fibres of the superficial muscles are frequently so much incorporated with the skin, that in many parts there is no distinct intervening layer of superficial fascia; and over most of the face the subcutaneous fat breaks up the fascia to a great extent. On the side of the neck, where a representative of the superficial fascia is found in the tissue containing the platysma myoides muscle, it is thin, and has embedded in it the external jugiilar vein and some superficial nerves. The DEEP FASCiiE of the head and neck deserve special attention, as they give iavestments of considerable strength, and serve to mark the separation, between several important organs. The temporal fascia is a structure of an aponeurotic nature, which covers the temporal muscle above the zygoma, and gives extensive attachment to its fibres of origin. It springs inferiorly from the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and is attached in the rest of its circumference to the posterior border of the malar bone and to the temporal ridge on the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones. It is divided below into two layers, one of which is attached to the outer and the other to the inner surface of the zygoma; and in this situation there is deposited between its layers a quantity of fat, the absorption of which is one cause of the hollowness of the temples in emaciated persons. This dense fascia is separated from the integuments by the layer of thin membrane descending from the epicranial aponeurosis, and by the auricular muscles ; and from the temporal muscle below, by a deeper layer of fat. The cervical fascia (named also proper or deep cervical) passes forwards from the anterior border of the trapezius muscle over the sides and front of the neck beneath the platysma myoides. Posteriorly it is continuous with the layers of connective tissue with which the trapezius and deeper muscles are invested ; it extends over the posterior triangle of the neck, viz., the space bounded by the trapezius and stemo-mastoid muscles and the clavicle : at the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid it divides into two layers, which form an investment for that muscle ; these unite again at the anterior border into a membrane which passes forwards across the middle line, and covers the area bounded by the middle line, the border of the jaw, and the stemo-mastoid muscle, and called the anterior triangle. In the posterior triangle the fascia is attached inferiorly to the clavicle, and near that bone is perforated by the external jugular vein, which in the previous part of its course lies superficial to the membrane. In the anterior triangle it is bound superiorly to the border of the jaw in front, and further back is continued over the masseter muscle {masseteric fascia), and the parotid gland, which it closely invests {parotid fascia) ; it likewise sends upwards a pro- cess on the posterior and deep surfaces of the parotid gland ; and a strong band of this process, known under the name of the stylo-maxillary ligament, extends from the styloid process to the angle of the jaw, so as to keep the parotid and submaxillary glands distinct, even although one or both of them may be greatly enlarged. In the front of the neck the fascia is attached to the hyoid bone, and, becom-