287 FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS. LUMBRICALES. at the posterior aspect of the muscle. The tendon descends in the groove behind the internal malleolus, supei-ficial to the tibialis posticus, and invested by a distinct fibrous and synovial sheath ; it is then directed under the arch of the os calcis, obliquely forwards and outwards, into the sole of the foot, where it crosses below the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and is connected with it by a tendinous slip ; it then divides into four parts, which pass forwards to be inserted into the terminal phalanges of the four smaller toes. Each digital tendon enters a fibrous sheath on the toe for which it is destined, perforates the corresponding tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum, and is invested with synovial membrane, and con- nected by vincula accessoria to the phalanges ; the whole arrangement being exactly similar to that which has been already described as occurring in the fingers. The posterior tibial vessels lie upon the surface of the flexor longus digitorum. Intimately connected with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum are the flexor accessorius and the lumhricales muscles, which, although they occupy the foot, may be most conveniently described in this place. The flexor accessorius (moles camea—Sylvius) arises by two heads, the internal and larger of which is fleshy, and is attached to the inner surface of the calcaneum, while the external, flat, narrow and tendinous, is attached to the plantar surface of the calcaneum a little in front of the external tubercle, and to the ligamentum longum plantse. Those origins united form a muscular mass which is inserted into the external border and upper and lower surfaces of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Fig. 218. —MiDPLE Later op the Plantar Mosoles of the Foot, together with the Tendons op the Long Flexors AND THE AcOESSORIDS AND LtJMBRIOALES MusOLES. 5 1, tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle, emerging behind from its sheath below the sustentaculum tali, and passing deeper than, 2, the tendons of the deep common flexor ; 3, two heads of the flexor accessorius ; 4, the four lumhricales ; 6, tendon of the flexor brevis cut short and left on the second toe, seen splitting to allow the passage through it of the tendon of the long flexor; 6, flexor brevis pollicis; 7, flexor brevis minimi digit!; there is also represented on the outer side of the foot the tendon of the peroneus longus winding round the cuboid bone, to pass across the foot in its groove, where it is concealed by the accessorius and other muscles. The lumbricales muscles, four in number, arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of division, each being, with the exception of the most internal, attached to two tendons, and pass forward to the inner sides of the four outer toes; each muscle ends in a tendon, which is united with the base of the flrst phalanx, and is inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toe. The lumbricales of the foot are less fully developed than those of the hand. They are liable to the same variations. In the sole of the foot the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the flexor accessorius and lumbricales, is covered below by the flexor brevis digitorum • the plantar nerves and hinder part of the external plantar artery being placed Fig. 218.