XXV NUTRITION OF THE TEXTURES. textures the old substance simply wears away, or is thrown oft' at tlie sur- face, whilst fresh material is added from below. In muscular texture, on the other hand, the process is a chemical or chemico-vital one ; the func- tional action of muscle is attended with an expenditure of moving force, and a portion of matter is consumed in the production of that force ; that is, it undergoes a chemical change, and being by this alteration rendered un6t to serve again is removed by absorption. The amount of matter changed in a given time, or, in other words, the rapidity of the nutritive process, is much greater in those instances where there is a production and expenditure of force, than where the tissue serves merely passive mechanical purposes. Hence, the bones, tendons, and ligaments are much less wasted in exhausting diseases than the muscles, or than the fat, which is consumed in respiration, and generates heat. Up to a certain period, the addition of new matter exceeds the amount of waste, and the whole body, as well as its several parts, augments in size and weight : this is "growth." When maturity is attained, the supply of material merely balances the con- sumption ; and, after this, no steady increase takes place, although the quantity of some matters in the body, especially the fat, is subject to considerable fluctuation at all periods of life. It would be foreign to our purpose to enter on the subject of nutrition in general; we may, however, briefly consider the mode in which the renova- tion of substance is conceived to be carried on in the tissues. The material of nutrition is immediately derived from the plasma of the blood, or liquor sanguinis, which is conveyed by the blood-vessels, and transudes through the coats of their capiUary branches ; and it is in all cases a necessary condition that this matter should be brought within reach of the spot where nutrition goes on, although, as will immediately be explained, it is not essential for this purpose that the vessels should actually pass into the tissue. ^ In cuticle and epithelium, the nutritive change is effected by a con- tinuance of the process to which these textures owe their origin. The tissues in question being devoid of vessels, nutrient matter, or blastema, is furnished by the vessels of the true skin, or subjacent vascular membrane ; this matter is appropriated by young cells derived most probably from pre- existing ones. These new cells enlarge, alter in figure, often also in chemical nature, and, after serving for a time as part of the tissue, are thrown off at its free surface. But it cannot in all cases be so clearly shown that nutrition takes place by a contmual formation and decay of the structural elements of the tissue • and it must not be forgotten, that there is another conceivable mode in which the renovation of matter might be brought about, namely, by a mole- cular change which renews the substance, particle by particle, without attecting the form or structure ; by a process, in short, which mi^ht be termed "molecular renovati.m." Still, although conclusive evidence is wanting on the point, it seems probable that the crude material of nutrition tot undergoes a certam elaboration or preparation through the agencv of cells and nuclei disseminated in the tissue ; which may serve as centres of assimilation and increase, as already explained. Office of the Vexsels.—In the instance of cuticle and epithelium, no vessels enter the tissue, but the nutrient fluid which the subjacent vessels afford penetrates a certain way into the growing ma.s, and the cells continue to assimilate tins fluid and pass through their changes at a distance from and ludependently of, the blood-vessels. Whether, in such cases, the whole o'f the