161 TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. There is also an external ligament, consisting of a slight fa.sciculu8 of fibres, which descends perpendicularly from the outer surface of the astragalus to the external side of the calcaneum, parallel with the middle division of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-jomt. It may be farther observed that those portions of the lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint which pass down over the astragalus to the os calcis assist in uniting these two bones. , , , . t , ■ . Calcaneo-scaplioid ligaments,—The calcaneum and scaphoid bone are not m contact, but they are connected by two ligaments. The inferior or plantar ligament, much the larger of the two, is a broad band which passes forwards and inwards from the fore-part of the calcaneum (sustentaculum taU) to the inferior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is in contact mfenorly with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, while superiorly it forms the floor of the articular cavity which receives the head of the astragalus, and is lined by synovial membrane. The external, dorsal, or inter-osseous ligament, forms the external boundary of the cavity just mentioned, and lies deeply at the anterior part of the fossa (sinus pedis), between the astragalus and OS calcis. Its fibres, very short, are directed from behind forwards between the contiguous extremities of the bones. They are attached posteriorly to a ridge of the os calcis that separates the articular surfaces for the astragalus and os cuboides, and anteriorly to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. Fig. 148. Fig. 148.—Ligaments op the Foot, seen from BELOW. i 1 and 2, portions of the internal lateral ligament of tbe ankle joint descending upon the calcaneum ; 3, calcaneo-cuboid or long plantar ligament; 3', deep or short part of the same ; 4, plantar calcaneo-sca- phoid ligament; 5, three scaphoido-cuneiform liga- ments of the internal, middle and external cuneiform bones ; 6, is placed upon the external cuneiform bone towards which is seen coming from behind a cuboido- cuneiform ligament; 7, is placed upon the internal cuneiform bone ; from 6 and 7, are seen passing down- wards the plantar cuneo-metatarsal ligaments; x , part of the first dorsal cuneo-metatarsal ligament; 8 and 9, ligamentous fibres prolonged from the cuboid bone and sheath of the peroneus longus muscle upon the outer metatarsal bones ; 10, 10, between these figures theposterior intermetatarsal (or transverse) ligaments; 11, 11, anterior transverse metatarsal ligament, con- tinued across the four metatarsal spaces ; 12, inter- sesamoid ligament; 13, 13, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral metatarso-digital ligaments; 14, 14, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral digital (phalangeal) ligaments of the first series : those of the second series have no figure placed to mark them ; 15, inferior ligament of the phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The talo-seaphoid or astragalo-scaphoid liga- ment, a membranous band of fibres situated on the dorsum of the foot, extends obliquely forwards from the anterior extremity of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bono, and completes the capsule of the calcaneo-talo-scaphoid joint, formed in the rest of its extent by the plantar and external calcaneo-acaphoid ligaments.