56 BONES OF THE HEAD. skeleton of the face beloAv. The foramina in this region, on each side, are the supra-orbital foramen or notch iii the superior margin of the orbit, tlie infra-orbital foramen below the inferior margin of the orbit, the mental foramen of the lower jaw, and the small irregular foramina of the malar bone. The orbits are pyramidal fosste, irregularly quadrilateral, with their bases Fig. 60. Fig. 50. —Section of the Skull of a Man of Middle Age, in two planes, one op ArniOH PASSES veetioally thkough the Left Orbit to the inner side of its MIDDLE, AND THE OTHER OBLIQUELY FROM BEHIND THE OrBIT, BACKWARDS AND OUTWARDS, THROUGH THE TYMPANUM AND MASTOID PROCESS, AND TO THE OUTSIDE OF THE Foramen Rotundum and Foramen Ovale. ^ 1, section of the frontal bone in the roof of the orbit : 2, left nasal bone; 3, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; 4, left lachrymal bone, and in front the groove of the nasal duct; 5, placed on the os planum of the ethmoid bone, below the anterior of the ethmoid foramina; 6, is placed below the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, between the optic foramen and the posterior internal orbital or ethmoid foramen, and close to the foramen lacerum orbitale ; 7, floor of the orbit, formed by orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone—the figure is placed close to the inside of the infra-orbital groove; 8, is placed on the orbital plate of the palate bone, in front of and above the spheno-palatine foramen and spheno-maxillary fossa ; 9, marks the upper extremity of the posterior palatine (or palato-maxillary) canal; towards 11 in the fossa is the opening back- wards of the Vidian canal; 10, the cranial opening of the foramen rotundum—its anterior opening is seen in the spheno-maxillary fossa; 11, section of the great wing of the sphenoid bone outside the round and oval foramina ; 12, is placed close to and between the spinous and oval foramina; 13, is placed on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, near the apex, or in the fossa of the Gasserian ganglion ; towards the orbit are seen the foramen lacerum anterius, sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery, and pituitary fossa, below the figure and externally the hiatus Fallopii; 14, the pituitary fossa, with the anterior and posterior clinoid processes ; 15, section of the petrous bone above the labyrinth ; two of the semicircular canals are opened ; immediately below is the tym- panum. The inner wall is seen with the promontory, fenestra ovalia and pyramid in shadow; forwards, at x, the opening of the tympanum towards the Eusta- chian canal, and backwards, below 16, the opening into the mastoid cells; 17, left styloid process—that of the right side is seen in perspective below the skull, close by the occipital condyle ; 18, tuberosity of the superior maxilla ; 19, canine fossa ; 20, nasal notch and anterior nasal spine ; 21, inner wall of the antrum seen by the removal of its outer wall ; above the figure is an irregular opening, viz., the opening of the antrum into the middle meatus of the nose, and above that the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone. The figure 21 is placed below the deflected plate of the inferior turbinated bone, where it completes a part of the inner wall of the antrum.