26 BONES OF THE THOllAX. front, and is most so in the neighbourhood of the angle. At first the rib is directed backwards as well as outwards. Besides the main curves now mentioned the rib is somewhat twisted on itself, so that the two extreme portions cannot be made to rest at the same time on a flat surface, It follows, from the same twisting in the majority of the ribs, that while their surfaces are vertical posteriorly, they are sloped upwards and inwards at the anterior part. Characters peculiar to certain Ribs.—The ribs increase in length from the first to the eighth, and decrease from the ninth to the twelfth, so that the last is little longer, often even shorter, than the first. The first rib is the broadest, and after it the middle ones ; the twelfth is the narrowest. The distance of the angle from the tubercle increases gradually from the second to the eleventh ; in the first the angle coincides with the tubercle, in the last it is not perceptible. The first rib is shorter and broader than any of the others. Its direction is slightly inclined, and its surfaces lie nearly in the same flat plane. Its superficial and thoracic surfaces look respectively upwards and downwards. The head is small, and presents a single articular surface. The neck is round and slender. It articulates with the body and transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra alone. On the superior or superficial surface are two very slight smooth depressions with an intervening rough mark, and a considerable rough surface behind. The rough surface marks the attachment of the scalenus medius muscle, the posterior depression the position of the subclavian artery, the anterior depression the subclavian vein; and the inter- vening slight elevation, frequently terminating in a sharp spine on the inner edge, indicates the attachment of the scalenus auticus muscle. The second rib is longer than the first, and presents externally a prominent roughness which marks the attachment of the serratus magnus. The eleventh and twelfth are distinguished as the free or floating ribs, because their cartilages are pointed and unattached in front. They have no groove on the inferior border, no articular tubercle, and only one articulating surface on the head. The mark of the angle is scarcely perceptible on the eleventh, and is absent from the twelfth. Varieties.—The number of the ribs is sometimes increased to thirteen on one or both sides. The supernumerary rib is most frequently very short, and is formed in connection with the transverse process of the first himbar vertebra, or occasionally with the seventh cervical: in the latter case the additional rib has a double attach- ment, viz., to the body and transverse process of the vertebra. The number is sometimes diminished to eleven pairs by the absence of the twelfth. Eibs likewise occur gi'eatly expanded or forked at their anterior extremities; and occasionally two or more ribs are united together in a part of their extent by their margins. The COSTAL cartilages are continuations of the ribs. Their breadth diminishes gradually from the first to the last, whilst the length increases as far as the seventh, after which it becomes gradually less. Their line of direction varies considerably. The first descends a little, the second is horizontal, and all the rest, except the last two, ascend more and more from the rib towards the sternum as they are situated lower down. The external or costal extremity, convex and uneven, is implanted into and united with the end of the corresponding rib. The internal extremities of the upper seven (except the first), are smaller than the external and somewhat pointed, and fit into the corresponding angular surfsicos on the side of the ster- num, with which they are articulated in synovial caAdties. Each of the cartilages of the first three asternal ribs becomes slender towards its ex-