ULNA. CARPUS, 83 is attached. Placed near tlie upper tliird is a foramen for vessels, directed upwards into tlio medullary cavity. The internal surface is smooth, and somewhat excavated superiorly on the side of the olecranon, where it gives attachment to the flexor profundus muscle, while inferiorly it is sub- cutaneous. The posterior surface, more uneven, looks outwards and back- wards ; an oblique ridge, descending from behind the small sigmoid cavity, limits a superior triangular area, which extends over the outer side of the olecranon and gives attachment to the anconeus muscle ; immediately below the small sigmoid cavity is a short space looking directly outwards, to which the supinator brevis is attached ; whUe the remaining and largest part of this surface is slightly impressed by the extensor muscles. Of the three margins, the anterior and posterior are rounded, and for the most part smooth ; the external is sharp, and gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The inferior extremity presents a rounded articular head ; and on the internal aspect of the head a short cylindrical projection, the styloid process, which descends in a line with the inner and posterior surface of the shaft, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The head presents two aspects, of which one, flattened and circular in form, looks towards the wrist joint; whilst the other, narrow and cylindrical, looks out- wards, and is received into the semilunar cavity in the contiguous border of the radius. The head and the styloid process are separated posteriorly by a groove, which is traversed by the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris ; and inferiorly by a depression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage which intervenes between the ulna and the carpus is inserted. THE CAEPTJS, The carpus is composed of eight short bones, which are disposed in two ranges, four in each range. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones which constitute the first or superior range are named scaphoid, semilunar, cimeiform, and pisiform; those of the second or inferior range, trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Fig. 75. — HALP-DIAaRAMlTATIO ViEW OP Fig. 75. THE Carpus and Peoximai, Paets op the Metacarpal Bones, feom before, with THE Carpal Bones slightly separated TO SHOW THE FOEM OP THEIE SUEFAOES OP CONTACT WITH EACH OTHER. § 1, scaphoid bone; 2, semilunar, pre- senting in this instance, as often occurs, a small surface of articulation with the unci- form bone ; 3, cuneiform or pyramidal; 4, pisiform, laid upon the last; 5, trape- zium, the figure is placed upon the ridge, to the inside of which is the groove for the tendon of flexor carpi radialis; 6, trape- zoid bone; 7, os magnum, the figure is placed on the tuberosity ; 8, unciform bone, the figure is placed on the unciform process. The metacarpal bones will be distinguished by the first being articulated separately with the trapenium. The articulation of the os magnum with the fourth metacarpal bone is represented somewhat too large. ^ The dorsal surface of the carpus is convex, the palmar is concave from side to side, the concavity being bounded by four prominences, one at tho outer and one at the inner extremity of each range. The anterior annular. Q 2