xxix CORPUSCLES. auimal- the goat was long supposed to have the smallest, viz., about ^^Vo*^ of an inch ; but Mr. Gulliver has fouud that they are much smaller in the Meminua aud Napu musk deer, in which animals they are less than y^^-^^th of an inch. In birds they do not vary in size so much; from Mr. Gu liver a very elaborate tables of measurement it appears that they range in length from about -rVo^tli to ?<r'(TTT*li of breadth is u.sually a little more than half the length, and their thickness about a third of the breadth or rather more. He found a remarkable exception m the cor- puscles of the sno\vy owl, which measure xjVgth of an inch in length ; and are only about a third of this in breadth. In scaly reptiles they are from 1- th to Xi?V(y*^ °f length ; in the naked amphibia they are Sich larger thus, in the frog they are T^ViJ*^ °^ 1°^°' ^"^^ TToT5*^ broad ; in the salamander they are larger still; but the largest yet known m any animal are those of the proteus, which are ^^o*^ ^ length, and -J~th in breadth ; the siren, which is so much allied to the proteus in other^ Vespects, agrees Avith it also in the very large size of its blood- corpuscles; they measure -^o^h. of an inch in length, and y^ofi^ in breadth. In the skate and shark tribe the corpuscles resemble those of the frog, in other fishes they are smaller. From what has been stated, it will be seen that the size of the blood-cor- puscles in animals generally is not proportionate to the size of the body ; at the same time Mr. Gulliver remarks, that " if we compare the measure- ments made from a great number of difierent species of tlie same order, it will be found that there is a closer connection between the size of the animal and that of its blood-corpuscles than has been generally supposed ;" and he has pointed oub at least one example of a very natural group of quadrupeds, the ruminants, in which there is a gradation of the size of the corpuscles in relation to that of the body. C. Schmidt, on account of the varying size which the corpuscles present, in dependence upon the density of the liquor sanguinis, has sub- jected them to repeated measurements when dried, in a very thin layer upon slips of glass. It has been thus found that from 95 to 98 per cent, present the same magnitude. Structure.—The large corpuscles of the frog and salamander, when drawn from the vessels and placed under the microscope, appear to consist of a thin, transparent, vesicular envelope, enclosing a solid oval mocleus in the centre, with a quantity of softer red-coloured matter disposed round the nucleus and filling up the space between it and the envelope. When exposed to the action of weak acetic acid, (fig. xvi.,^) the colouring matter is speedily extracted, and the nucleus becomes distinct, whilst the envelope is rendered 80 faint as to be scarcely visible ; but its outline may be still brought into view by adding solution of iodine, which gives it colour and opacity. Pure water extracts the colour and distends the corpuscle by imbibition, altering its shape from oval to round, and making the nucleus more conspicuous. Often in these circumstances the nucleus is displaced from its central position, and it may even be extruded altogether, as if by bursting of the corpuscle, which then appears flattened aud colourless, and in this con- dition is generally supposed to represent only the ruptured aud empty envelope ; b\it even with the help of iodine, no rent can be perceived in it. For this and also for other reasons some think that wliat remains behind after escape of the nucleus is really the soft and now colourless substance of the corpuscle, and that it has no distinct envelope. On the opposite view it is suggested that the absence of apparent laceration in the envelope is owinw