213 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. tendon of insertion. This tendon, slightly twisted upon itself as it descends, is inserted into the rough posterior margin of the tuberosity of the radius, and glides on the anterior smooth surface of that process by the inter- vention of a synovial bursa. From the front of the lower part of the muscle, and from the tendon at its inner side, there proceeds a fibrous expansion of an aponeurotic nature, which passing downwards and inwards becomes blended with the fascia of the forearm over the pronator radii teres. Fig. 178.—Peup View op the Fig. 1/8. Mdsclbs op the Riodt Shoulder AND Arm, from before. J The clavicle is divided near its middle; the pectoralis minor is entirely removed, and portions of the biceps, pectoralis major, del- toid, and latissimus dorsi, are left near their attachments, a, acro- mion ; 6, cut part of the clavicle; c, coracoid process; d, upper, and e, lower triangular space left at the upper and lower angles of the scapula on its anterior surface when the serratus magnus is removed; /, great tuberosity of the humems; g, surface of the humerus below the bicipital groove, near the ridge of attachment of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; h, outer, and i, inner condyloid emi- nence of the humerus; 1, cut coracoid head, and 1', cut glenoid tendon, of the biceps muscle; 2, folded tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, of which one por- tion is seen running up to the bici- pital groove ; 3, lower cut end of the deltoid; 4, coraco-braohialis muscle; 5, subscapularis; 5', its insertion into the lesser tuberosity ; 6, teres major; 6', its insertion behind and below the latissimus dorsi; 7, part of the latissimus dorsi; +, slip proceeding from the inferior angle of the scapula; 7', insertion of the tendon after wind- ing round the teres major in front of and higher than that muscle ; 8, 8', brachialis anticus ; 9, long or scapular head of the triceps, at the upper part seen between the teres major and subscapularis muscles, the teres minor not represented; i)', inner humeral head of the triceps ; 10, flexor communis digitorum pro- fundus, taking origin round the in- sertion of brachialis anticus; 11, tendon of insertion of the biceps. Concealed above by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, the biceps forms in the rest of its extent the prominence of the front of the arm. It rests in its upper half on the humerus, and in its lower on the brachialis anticus, and by its inner margin is in contact in its upper half with the coraco-brachialis, in its lower with tho