123 ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBR/E. upper than at the lower part of the spine. In the neck it extends quite across the bocUes, but in the back and loins it is broader opposite the luter- Fig. 109.—View op a part op thh Vertbbkal Column, iNOLuniNa tub 5tu, 6Tn, 7th, 8tu, and Otd Dorsal Vertebr.e, with a tarx OP the 6th, 7tu, and Sth Ribs, FKOM THE bight SIDE AND FRONT. J The 5th and 9th ribs have been removed so as to show the articular surfaces of the vertcbrte corresponding to them ; I to 2, the anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae; at X X , a portion of the ligament is removed so as to expose the inter- vertebral plate between the 8th and 9th vei-tebras, in which the diagonal fibres of the external ligamentous plates are represented. (The further description of this figure will be found at p. 129.) vertebral cartilages than at the middle bodies, so that its mar- gins present a series of points or dentations with intervening concave spaces. It adheres firmly to the fibro-cartilages and to the contiguous margins of the bodies of the vei-tebrjje, but it is sepa- rated from the middle of the bodies by the transverse parts of the large venous plexus, which is in con- tact with the bones. Between the ligament and the prolongation of the diira mater which lines the canal, some loose connective tissue is interposed. Fig. 110. Fig. 110.—The Bodies of three Lumbar Vertbbrjs, seen from BEHIND, with THE POSTERIOR CoMMON LiaAMENT. ^ The arches have been removed by cutting through the pedicles. The contraction of the posterior common ligament opposite the middle of each body, and its greater width and attachments opposite the intervertebral discs, are represented. The joints of the articulating processes present each a synovial cavity surrounded by an irregular fibrous capsule. The fibrous bands of these capsules are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta suhflava are ligaments consisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the laminte of the vertebrse. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are at- tached superiorly to the anterior surface of the lamina, a little above the inferior margin, and iiiferiorly to the upper margin and part of the posterior surface of the lamina beneath. They are most distinctly seen when the arches are detached from the bodies of the vertebrtx), and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, or in the dorsal region are concealed, being overlaid by the prominent inferior margins of the laminaj