174 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 156. The pymmiddis nasi, continuous with the innermost fibres of the fron tahs muscle extends downwards from the root of the nose over the with the compressor nans muscle. The muscles of opposite sides, united superiorly, diverge slightly as they descend. ' The compressor naris, a thin triangular muscle, arises narrow and fleshy trom the canme fossa in the superior maxillary bone, and proceeding inwards gradually expands into a thin aponeurosis, which is partly blended with that of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis nasi, and is partly attached to the cartilage of the nose. It ia concealed at Its origin by the proper elevator of the lip, and is crossed by the common elevator. Fig. 155.—Muscles oi? the side of the Nosb and Uppee Lip. | 1, pjramidalis nasi; 2, levator labii superioris aleeque nasi;_ 3, compressor naris or triangularis; 4, levator proprius alse nasi anterior ; 5, levator proprius ala5 nasi posterior or dilatator ; 6, depressor al» nasi; 7, orbicu- laris oris ; 7*, naso-labialis. The levator labii superioris alcBque nasi, the common elevator of the lip and nose, lies along the side of the nose, extending from the inner margin of the orbit to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the upper extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, as it descends, separates into two fasciculi ; one of these, much smaller than the other, becomes attached to the wing of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip, where it is blended with the orbicularis and the special elevator muscle. It is subcutaneous, except at its origin, where the orbicularis palpebrarum overlaps it a little. Anomalous Fibres.—Beneath the common elevator of the lip and ala of the nose, and connected by the lower end with the origin of the compressor naris, will be found a longitudinal muscular slip, more than an inch in length, attached exclusively to the superior maxillary bone. It was named " rhomboideus" by Santorini, and (in consequence of being attached only to one bone, and producing therefore no motion) "anomalus " by Albinus. The depressor aloe nasi is a small flat muscle which arises from the superior incisor fossa, and is inserted into the septum and posterior part of the ala of the nose. The external fibres curve forwards and downwards to the ala. Besides the muscles above described there are other irregular and often indistinct fibres which cover the small alar cartilages of the nose. Of these the following may be distinguished. The levator proprius alee nasi posterior, or dilatator naris posterior, is attached to the margin of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone and the smaller (sesamoid) cartilages of the ala nasi on the one hand, and to the skin on the other. Another set of fibres, the levator projyrius alw nasi anterior, or dilatator naris anterior, is interposed between the cai-tilage of the aperture of the nose and the skin, to both of which it is attached. Actions.—The pyramidalis muscle, being continuous with the occipito-frontalis, is the means of giving that muscle a more fixed attachment to the dorsum of the nose,