2 OSTEOLOGY. Correspondence of structural elements in different animals, or in different segments ot the same animal, constitutes what is now generally called homology. Thus the wings of birds and the forelimbs of quadrupeds are homologous with the upper limbs of man, and vertebrae are homologous one with another. To distinguish the correspondence of parts which lie in series from that which exists between struc- tures in different animals, Owen has suggested for the former the term homotypy, and the phrase serial homology is likewise employed. Thus the bones of the foot are serially homologous, or homotypic, with those of the hand. To express resemblance of a general nature, arising from similarity of function, the terna analogy has been adopted by recent authors. While structures fundamentally similar are regarded as homologous, although the progress of their development and the purposes for which they are adapted may be different, organs adapted for similar purposes are said to be analogous, however different in their original anatomical relations may be the parts of which they are composed. Thus the gills, being the respiratory organs of iishes, are analogous to the lungs of the air-breathing vertebrata; but they are not homologous parts. Descriptive Terms.—As it is the office of descriptive anatomy to indicate with precision not only the form and structure, but also the position in relation to other parts of objects which are often irregular and complicated, it is important that it should have a generally recognised system of nomenclature: hence many words expressive of relative position, have acquired a restricted technical sense in which they are generally used by anatomists. It may be proper to mention here the most important of those terms. The mesial plane is that in which the body might be divided into a right and left lateral half; the middle line being the line before and. behind, in which that plane meets the sui-face of the body. Internal and external denote relative nearness to and distance from the mesial plane towards either side. Superficial and deep indicate distance from the surface; and in the expression of this relation it is well to avoid the use of the terms external and internal, inner and outer, above and below, or to employ them with the utmost caution, lest they become a source of confusion. . Nevertheless, an exception to this rule is still veiy generally made in the instances of some phrases which have been long in use. Thus the superficial and deep oblique muscles of the abdomen are commonly called external and internal, and so also with the superficial and deep inguinal rings. Superior, inferior, above, below, anterior, and posterior have reference to the position of parts in the erect posture of the body. As, however, the employment of those terms, though unobjectionable in human anatomy, is liable to give rise to ambiguity in general or comparative descriptions of structure in man and animals, it is frequently preferable to substitute others which express position by reference to a region or structure towards which the part is directed. Thus ventral and dorsal may be often employed instead of anterior and posterior, and, in the limbs, proximal and distal instead of superior and inferior. The inferior aspect of the lung may be called diaphragmatic, the posterior aspect of the gullet vertebral, and. so on. Section I.—OSTEOLOGY. The osseous system forms the skeleton or solid framework of the body. It supports the soft parts, protects delicate organs, and furnishes places of attachment to the muscles, by which the different movements are executed. The osseous parts of the skeleton are bound together by ligaments ; and in some parts the framework is completed by the addition of cartilages. A natural skeleton is one in which the connecting parts have been preserved ; while, in an artificial skeleton, the ligaments and cartilages having been removed by complete maceration, the bones are united by artificial mechanical contrivances, and the cartilages are replaced by some other substance. The number of bones in the skeleton varies at different ages of life, some which are originally distinct becoming imited together as the process of