XV PKODUCTION OF CELLS. cases the younger and more deeply-seated cells have no envelope but acquire one before taking their place in the more superficial firm layers.* The envelope, when present, is thin, transparent, homogeneous, flexible, and permeable to fluids. The contents diff-er greatly m different cells ; but i^ those that form the first foundation of the tissues and organs m the embryo, in young cells generally, and in some cells throughout their whole existence, the contained matter is a peculiar semifluid substance, named protoplasm., and granular particles, mostly of a fatty nature, densely or sparingly mixed with it. The protoplasm is transparent, colourless, not diffluent, but tenacious and sUmy, and under high magnifymg powers is seen to contain very fine molecules. In chemical properties it agrees generally with albuminoid bodies, but in many animal ceUs it doubtless also includes other organic principles, especially fat and glycogenous or amyloid matter. The protoplasm is endowed with remarkable powers of contraction and motion, to be afterwards referred to. But, while certain cells, as already said, retain their primary constitution, others acquire very different matters : many contain mucus ; the fat-cells are filled with oil; the cells of glands include the characteristic ingredients of the secretions ; the substance of the red blood-cells is coloured, and certain cells are filled with particles of pigment. Very commonly in vegetable cells the protoplasm occupies but a small part of the space within, while the re- mainder is filled with watery fluid with which the protoplasm does not mingle. Free Nuclei.—Besides the bodies which have been called cells, corpuscles having all the characters of cell-nuclei exist abundantly in various tissues, such as the membranous walls of the capillaries, the sheaths of nerve-fibres, muscular fibres, &c. But in some of these cases it is obvious, in others highly probable, that the nuclei are associated with a certain amount of protoplasm, although not in the usual mass and form of a cell. Production of Cells.—Consistently with the present state of knowledge on this subject, the following may be assigned as the several modes in which cells and nuclei are observed to be produced in the animal system ; but while the process varies in outward conditions in each of these cases, it can scarcely be doubted that it will prove to be intrinsically and fundamentally tfie same in all. a. In the Ovuvi.—The ovum may be regarded as a cell derived from the parent. In mammaha (fig. ix., a), it has a transparent but stout external membrane (a) ; within this is the yelk (h), corresponding to the cell-contents ; in the yelk is the germinal vesicle (c), including the ger- minal spot {macula germinativa), which are comparable, respectively, to the nucleus and nucleolus. The yelk consists originally of fine molecular particles held together in a transparent tenacious matrix of protoplasm ; and when once fertilisation has taken place, the yelk-mass undergoes a process of subdivision or " segmentation," whereby it is fashioned into • The existence of animal cells destitute of envelope, although more insisted on of late years, has been all along recognised in the study of cell-development, and was expressly pointed out by Schwann himself (Microscopische Untersuchungen, &c., p. 209). It Las appeared to some tliat another name .should be used to designate bodies which thus exist in a naked non-vesicular form. Briicke proposes to call them "elementary organisms," a term too cumbrous for use ; as the first " shaped " products of organisation which appear in the development of all but the lowest organised beings, they might be named "proto- plasts," or, as that name has been alreadyused in a widely different sense—"monoplasts ;" but, after all, seeing the universal cuiTency of the term "cell," it is probably most con- venient and best to adhere to it, with the understanding that in many cases it is used in a conventional sense.