MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 266 The erector clitoridis "differs from tlio erector penia of the male by its smaller size alono. The sjMncter vacjince is attached behind to the central point of the permaeimi,_ in common with the sphincter ani and transversus perincei muscles ; its fibres open out to surround the vaginal orifice and vestibule closely embracing on the outer side the two bulbs of the vestibule ; acrain Fig. 205. Fig. 205.—MUSCLUS of the PEKINiEnM IN TUB Female. | a, clitoris ; b, crus clitoridis; c, is placed in the vestibule above the orifice of the urethra; d, vagina ; x, anus ; c, coccyx ; 1, external sphincter ani muscle ; 2, sphincter vaginae; 2', a few of its fibres prolonged to the clitoris ; 3, levator ani; 4, on the left ischial tuberosity, points to the transversus perinei (the inner fibres of this muscle are represented too far forwards in the_ figure); 5, 6, ischio-cavernosus ; 7, gracilis; 8, adductor magnus and semi- tendinosus, &c. ; 9, gluteus maximus. approaching each other in front, they become narrow, and are inserted upon the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over these and including the vena dorsahs. The two halves of this elliptical mus- cle appear to correspond strictly to those of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle in the male. A deep transverse muscle, corresponding to part of the constrictor urethraa of the male, has been described aa resting on the pubic surface of the female urethra. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The muscles which pass between the trunk and the lower limb, viz., the psoas, pyriformis and coccygeus, are so few in number and so intimately connected with others, that it is inexpedient to describe them as a distinct group, as has been done in the case of the more numerous and considerable muscles which attach the upper limb to the trunk. MUSCLES OP THE HIP AND THIGH. Gluteal Region".—The muscles of this region are the three glutei, the pyriformis, the obturator externus, the obturator internus Avith the gemelli, and the quadratus femoris. The gluteus maximus is a very large and coarsely fasciculated muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in shape, which forms the greatest prominence of the gluteal region posteriorly. It arises from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest, and the irregular rough surface of the ilium subjacent to that part; froni the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum ; from the gi-eat sacro-sciatic ligament and the side of the coccyx ; and between the sacrum and the ilium, from the aponeurosis of the muscles of the back. Thence it passes downwards and outwards ; the fibres of its lower third are inserted