26? FASCI/E OF THE ABDOMEN. 8 If the vertebral column be fixed, these muscles press up the diaphragm, draw down the ribs, and contract the lower border of the thorax, and so contribute to expiration; but if the vertebral column be not fixed, the thorax will be bent directly forwards, when the muscles of both sides act, or rotated to eitlier side, should they act alternately. Thus, if the external oblique of the right side be made to act on the thorax, the first cflect appears to be that of drawing its margin down towards the pelvis; but, if the effort bo continued, the trunk will be rotated towards the opposite side. The left internal oblique may co- operate in this action, for the dii-cction of its fibres coincides with that of the right external oblique. If the thorax be fixed, the abdominal muscles may be made to act on the pelvis; thus, in the action of climbing, the trunk and arms being elevated and fixed, the pelvis is drawn upwards, cither directly or to one side, as a preparatory step to the elevation of the lower limbs. The attachment of the tendinous intersections of the rectus muscle to the anterior wall of its sheath, causes the formation of corresponding transverse folds during its contraction, and may enable the separate parts of the muscle to act on dififerent portions of the abdominal wall. By the same arrangement, when the oblique and transverse muscles contract, the breadth of the recti will be maintained and even increased; and these muscles will thus be enabled, both in the straight and in the incurved position of the abdominal wall, more effectually to compress the abdominal viscera. The pyramidalis muscle assists the inferior part of the rectus. FASCIiE OF THE ABDOMEN. The superficial fascia of the abdomen is usually described as consisting of two layers. One of these, the subcutaneous layer, corresponds in its general features -with the areolar subcutaneous tissue of other parts of the body, and contains embedded in it a very variable and often large quantity of fat. The other, or deeper layer, is of a denser and more membranous structure, contains a considerable amount of yellow elastic tissue in its substance, and is united by intervening fibres, in some places very closely, to the aponeurosis of the external obhque muscle. These two layers are both continuous with the superficial fascia on other parts of the trunk : they can be dissected as distinct layers only on the fore part of the abdomen, and are separated in a more marked manner in the lower part of its wall, where subcutaneous ves- sels, such as the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac lie between them. The deep or elastic layer of the superficial fascia is bound down by a thin but dense intervening layer of fibrous tissue to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in two places more particularly, viz., along the linea alba from the umbilicus to the pubes, and in the whole length of Poupart's ligament. At the lower part of the linea alba it sends fibrous and elastic processes towards the dorsum of the penis, which form its so-called sus- pensory ligaments. By its close union to Poupart's ligament, it comes into relation with the fascia lata of the thigh which is also united to that struc- ture : but in the neighbourhood of the external inguinal aperture it remains free, and is prolonged downwards over the spermatic cord to the scrotum. The subcutaneous layer, losing its fat, is combined with the deeper layer as they both pass to the scrotum, and here the layer which they form acquires a reddish brown colour, and undergoes a modification in structure by beino^ mingled largely with involuntary muscular fibres, and thus forms the dartos tunic of the scrotum. Some involuntary muscular fibres also exist in the altered superficial fascia which covers the penis. This covering, on leaving the scrotum posteriorly, becomes continuous with the superficial fascia o'f the perineum.