THE SKULL IN GENERAL. lu the temporal bones— . Ossification of the squamous part appears in the 7th or 8th week. Ossification of the petro-mastoid part appears in the 4 th month. Ossification of the ossicula auditus appears in the 4th month. Ossification of the tympanic ring appears in the 3rd month. Ossification of the styloid process appears after puberty. The squamous, petro-mastoid, and tympanic parts unite in the Ist year. In the sphenoid bone— Ossification of the great wings appears in the 8th week. Ossification of the posterior part of the body appears in the 8th or 9th week. Ossification of the internal pterygoid processes appears in the 4th month. Ossification of the anterior part of the body, including the small wings, appears in the 8th or 9th week. , u• r. Ossification of the sphenoidal spongy bones appears about tlie time of birth. The centres of the posterior part of the body unite in the 4th month. The internal and external pterygoid processes unite in the 5th or 6th month. The anterior and posterior parts of the body unite in the 8th month. The body and great wings unite in the 1st year. The sphenoidal spongy bones and the body unite about the age of puberty. In the ethmoid bone— Ossification of the lateral masses appears in the 4th or 5t.h month. Ossification of the vertical and cribriform plates appears in the 1st year. In the superior maxillary bones ossification appears in the 6th or 7th week. In the palate, vomer, nasal, and malar bones ossification appears in the 7th or 8th week. In the lachrymal bones ossification appears in the 8th week. In the inferior turbinated bones ossification appears in the 5th month. In the inferior maxillary bone ossification appears in the 6th week. The two parts of the inferior maxillary bone unite in the 1st year. In the hyoid bone— Ossification of the body and great cornua appears before birth. Ossification of the small cornua appears in the 1st year. THE VERTEBRAL THEORY OF THE SKULL. The idea that the skull is composed of a series of vertebrje, whose arches are expanded and united to enclose and protect the encephalon, appears to have originated with Goethe in 1791, but occurred independently to Oken, and was first published by him in 1807. Since then many conflicting theories have been brought forward on the subject by different anatomists, who have estimated the cranial vertebrae at numbers varying from three to seven; while by others the idea has been entirely rejected, and even the possibility of referring the bones of the skull to distinct segments denied. Some of the facts in favour of the vertebral theory are sufficiently manifest. Thus, the basilar process of the occipital bone, and the mesial parts of the post-sphenoid and pre-sphenoid bones, lie in series with and bear considerable resemblance to the centra or bodies of vertebrae, as is seen particularly in those animals in which the pre- sphenoid and post-sphenoid bones remain distinct: the visceral arches of the embryo likewise form a series : in the roof of the skull a certain degree of repetition of parts from behind forwards is also visible, especially in some of the lower animals: the mode of formation of the head and of the trunk is almost the same up to the time when the primordial vertebrte appear in the latter: and lastly, the general resemblance of the occipital bone to a vertebra is admitted by all. On the other hand, as it must be allowed that there is no original division of the cartilaginous basis of the cranium, in that part of it which lies in front of the sphenoid bone, and to which the chorda dorsalis does not penetrate, it is not easy to trace a resemblance to vertebral form; and in the face it is still more difficult to demonstrate in the several parts a definite arrangement of visceral or costal arches. Deterred by the differences of opinion with respect to the number of cranial segments and the bones which belong to each, some may be inclined to set aside the discussion entirely, but we must not too rashly decide against the existence of such segmentation, nor forget that some correspondence