73 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. and especially projection forwards of the incisors, so lliat those of tlie upper meet those of the lower jaw at an angle, ixistcad of botli sets being nearly perpendicular as in cultivated nations. Elongation of the face downwards may be regarded as a specially human characteristic connected with the use of voice and speech, but projec- tion of the jaws forwards is only advantageous for the seizure of food, and gives an appearance of approach to the still further projected form of the jaws in the lower animals, particularly when accompanied, as it often is^ by deficient development of the chin. The degree of projection of the face in diflFerent races of men, and its prominence and increased proportion to the cranium in the lower animals. Camper proposed to express by the angle contained between two lines, one of them descending from the most prominent part of the forehead to the incisor margin of the upper jaw, the other passing through the meatus auditorius externus and the nasal spine : this he termed the facial awjle. He estimated its maximum in the European adult at 80", and in the skull of a young negro he found it diminished to 70°; while in antique ■works of art he pointed out that it was increased for artistic effect to 90° or more, an extent never realised in nature. In animals, the facial angle is always much lower than in man. According to Camper and Lawrence, it reaches in the young orang as high a point as 56° or 60°; but in the adult orang they found it attaining only to 47°, while Owen finds it to be as low as 30°. (Owen, "Zoolog. Trans," vol. i. p. 373.) Several modifications of Camper's angle have been suggested; but, like it, they all labour under the disadvantage of being subject to modification from other peculiarities besides the relations proposed to be estimated. A convenient method of comparing the skulls of different races was introduced by Blumenbach, and has been much employed,—the norma verticalis, or exami- nation of the skull by looking perpendicularly down upon it, which exhibits in one view the proportionate length and breadth of the cranium, the projection of the jaw beyond the forehead, and the lateral prominence of the zygomatic arches. In addition to the norma verticalis and profile view, Prichard has likewise employed the front view in examining skulls, showing that, whereas in well-formed European heads, lines drawn from the zygomatic arch and touching the temples are parallel, the same lines in the skulls of Esquimaux and others meet over the forehead, and form with the basis a triangular figure. More recently, a. classification of skulls has been made by Eetzius, which has met with considerable acceptance. According to his arrangement, they may be primarily divided into the dolichocephalic, or those which are elongated from before backwards, and the brachycephalic, or those which have nearly as great breadth as they have length. In each of those divisions are distinguished the prognathous skulls, or those in which the upper jaw is visible when they are examined by the norma verticalis, and the orlhognathous, in which the jaw is overhung by the forehead. The nations of Western Europe present the orthognathous dolichocephalic type of skull; the African negro the prognathous dolichocephalic type; the Slavonic nations exhibit the orthognathous brachycephalic type; the Mongolians the prognathous brachycephalic. (Camper, "On the Connection between Anatomy, Drawing, &c.,"transl. by Cogan, 1794; Blumenbach, " Institutions of Physiology," by Elliotson, 1820; and " De Generis Humani Varietate Nativa," 1795 ; Prichard, "Researches into the Physical History of Mankind," and " Natural History of Man ;" Morton, " Crania AmericanaThurnam and Davies, "Crana BritannicaHuschke, "Schildel, Hirn, und Seele des Menschen und der Thiere, &c.," 1854; Meigs, "Cranial Characteristics of the Races of Men," Philad. 1857; Retzius, "On the present State of Ethnology with reference to the Form of the Skull," translated in Brit, and For. Medico-Chir. Review, April & July, 1860; Carpenter, in " Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol.") ' IV, Trrer/ularittes o/Foriii.—T^he most frequent irregularity in the form of the skull is want of symmetry. This sometimes occurs in a marked degree, and there is probably no skull perfectly symmetrical. The condition which haa been observed to co-exist most frequently with irregular forms of skull is si/iioslosis, or premature obliteration of certain of the sutures. The cranial bones increase in size principally at their margins; and when a suture is prematurely obliterated, the growth of the skull in the direction at right angles to the line of suture may be supposed to be checked, and increased growth in other directions may take place to supply the defect