BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 98 Position, of the Pelvis.—la the erect attitude of the body, the pelvis is so incliued that the plane of the brim of the true pelvis forms an angle with the horizontal, varying in different individuals from 60° to 65°. The base of the sacrum was found by Najjele in a large number of well-formed female bodies to be about 31 inches above the upper margin of the sym- physis pubis ; the level of the top of the coccyx he found varying from 22 lines above the apex of the pubic arch to 9 lines below the same point, and on an average to be 7 or 8 lines above it (Nagele, "Das weibliche Becken," &c., Carlsruhe, 1825 ; Wood, article " Pelvis" in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology). The pelvic aspect of the sacrum, near its base, looks much more downwards than forwards, hence the sacrum appears at first sight to occupy the position of the keystone of an arch ; but being in reality broader at its pelvic than on its dorsal aspect, it is a key-stone inverted or having its broad end lowest, and is only supported in its place by cartilage and ligaments. The line of pressure of the weight of the body on the sacrum is directed downwards towards the symphysis pubis, and the resistance of the head of the thighbone on each side is directed upwards and inwards : hence in the most frequent deformities of the pelvis, Figs. 89 and 90. Sketches of the Male AND Female Pelvis. \ As seen from above and in front, or at right angles to the brim of the true pelvis : de- signed farther to illus- trate the differences of the male and female form, and showing in the lower figure of the female pelvis the lines in which the dimensions of the pelvis are usually measured ; (these lines are only marked on the brim of the pelvis). a, p, antero-posterior or conjugate diameter; t, r, transverse or widest diameter ; o, b, 0, b, oblique diameters. In the original speci- mens, which were se- lected as giving the full average dimensions, the following were the mea- surements in inches :— Antero-posterior or conjugate diameter— female, 44 ; male, 4. Transverse diameter— female, 5^ ; male, 4J. Oblique diameter—fe- male, 5; male, 4|. arising from insuflScient strength of its walls, the sacrum is projected into the inlet of the pelvis, and the acetabula approach the middle line, while the pubic bones are pressed forwards and downwards between them. Fig. 89.