200 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. MUSCLES ATTACHING THE UPPER LIMB TO THE TEUNK POSTERIOKLT. The trapezkis muscle (cucullaris) arises by a thin aponeurosis from the protuberance of the occipital bone, and the inner third of its superior curved Ime, from the ligamentum nuch^e, and from the spines of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments. From this extended line of origin the fibres converge to their insertion : the superior fibres, descending and turning forwards in the neck, are inserted into the external third of the clavicle at its posterior border ; the succeeding fibres pass transversely to the inner border of the acromion process and upper border of the spine of the scapula, while the inferior fibres ascending terminate in a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the base of the spine of the scapula, and is inserted into the rough mark at the root of the spine. The greater part of the origin becomes immediately muscular, but opposite the seventh cervical spine, and for the distance of several vertebrae above and below that point, a flat tendon extends outwards, widest at the middle of the space, and narrowing towards the upper and lower ends, so that the aponeuroses of the two muscles taken together have an elliptical form. The fibres of origin from the occipital bone have no tendinous lustre, and resemble rather a strong fascia. * The muscles of the two sides, regarded together, have the form of a four-sided figure, or shawl, pointing downwards : hence the names which have been given to it. The trapezius is superficial in its whole extent: it covers the splenius, the greater part of the complexus above the splenius, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboidei, the supraspinatus, and small portions of the infraspinatus, latissimus dorsi, and lumbar aponeurosis. The spinal accessory nerve, and the Buperficial cervical artery, pass into it from its deep surface. The trapezius is not unfrequently shorter than above described, and the number of dorsal vertebrce with which it is connected is sometimes diminished even to six or seven. The latissimus dorsi arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the six or seven lowest dorsal vertebrae, and from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, through the medium of which it is attached to the lumbar and upper sacral spines and back part of the Uiac crest ; it also arises by fleshy fibres for an inch or more from the iliac crest in front of the outer margin of the lumbar aponeurosis, and from the last three or four ribs by fleshy slips which interdigitate with the attachments of the external oblique muscle. The flbres at the upper part are the shortest, and pass almost horizontally outwards over the lower angle of the scapula, from which they frequently receive a fasciculus of fleshy fibres ; those lower down become longer and incline from below upwards, gradually increasing in the degree of their obliquity ; finally, those which are attached to the ribs ascend almost vertically. By this convergence the fibres of the muscle come to form a narrow band of some thickness, which, accompanying the teres major towards the axilla, winds round the lower and outer border of that muscle so as finally to be placed in front of it. At this place it terminates in a flat tendon of about two inches in length, which generally becomes adherent to that of the teres major, but is again detached from it at the insertion. The tendon is inserted in the floor of the bicipital groove of the humerus, a little higher than the insertion of the teres major. From this twisting of the muscle upon itself the anterior surface of the tendon is continuous with the posterior surface of the rest of the muscle.