DOESAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 238 b. The seimsjnnalis dorsi, not covered by the complexus, consists of small muscular bundles interposed between tendons of considerable length and forms an elongated thin stratum, especiaUy towards its lower border! It arises from transverse processes of dorsal vertebras from the tenth to the fifth inclusive, and is inserted into the spines of the last two cervical and first four dorsal vertebra. The multifidus spina, reaches from the sacrum to the axis vertebra, passing up under cover of the semispinalis, and is much more largely developed towards the lower than the upper end of the column. In the sacral region the fibres arise from the deep surface of the tendinous origin of the erector spiua3, from the groove on the back of the sacrum as low as the fourth fora- men, from the inner part of the posterior extremity of the iliac crest, and from the ligaments between that bone and the sacrum ; in the lumbar region they take origin from the mammillary processes ; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. From these several points the muscular bundles ascend obliquely, to be inserted into the laminae of the vertebrfe, and into the spines from their bases nearly to their extremities. The fibres from each point of origin are fixed to several vertebraj, some being inserted into the side of the spinous process next above, and others ascending more and more vertically as high as the fourth from the place of origin ; the longer fibres from one origin overlapping those from the origin next above. The rotator 6s sjyincB are eleven pairs of small muscles, which may be regarded as the deepest fibres of the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are distinguished by being more nearly horizontal than the rest. Each arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and is inserted into the vertebra next above, at the inferior margin and on part of the surface of the lamina, as far as the root of the spinous process. Inter-transvebsales.—The inter-iransversales are short muscles passing nearly vertically from vertebra to vertebra between the transverse processes. They are most developed in the cervical, and least in the dorsal region. Beneath each cervical transverse process there are two such muscles, one descending from the anterior, and another from the posterior part of the process. In the lumbar region there are likewise two sets : one set, the inter-transversales later ales lie between the transverse processes, and are in series with the levatores costarum ; the other set, inter-transversales mediates or inter-accessorii, pass from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mammillary process of the next, and are in series with the inter-transversales of the dorsal region. Intbrspinales.—The inter-spinales are short vertical fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebras. They are best marked in the neck, where they are connected one to each of the two parts into which the spinous process is divided. In the dorsal part of the column only a few are met with, and these are not constant. The spinalis cervicis consists of a few irregular bundles of fibres, of greater length than the preceding muscles, placed close to the ligamcntum nucha;: they arise by two or more heads from the spines of the fifth and sixth cervical and sometimes other neighbouring vcrtebr£e, and arc inserted into the spine of the axis, and occasionally into the two vertebrce next below it. This muscle is sometimes wanting. (See llenlc & Heilenbcck, in "Muller's Archiv.," 1837.) The name sacro-cocci/geus piosiicus, or extensor coccygis, has been given to slender fibres occasionally found extending from the lower end of the sacrum to the coccyx,