THE ETHMOID BONE. 43 The anterior margin of the crista galli is vertical and broad, usually pre- senting a groove, which completes the foramen csecum of the frontal bone. Below the level of the cribriform lamella, the anterior margin of the central plate articulates with the nasal process of the frontal and with the nasal bones. The inferior margin articulates in front, and sometimes even in its whole extent, with the septal cartilage of the nose; and in its posterior half, in the adult, is more or less completely joined by osseous union on one or both sides to the two plates or alfB of the vomer. The posterior margin is very thin, and is united to the sphenoidal crest of the sphenoid. This plate presents a number of grooves and minute canals leading from the foramina of the cribriform lamella, for the transmission of the olfactory nerves. The LATERAL MASSES cnclose a number of spaces of irregular form, the ethmoidal cells, which in the recent state are lined with prolongations of the mucous membrane of the nose. On the external aspect of each lateral mass is a thin, smooth lamina, of a quadrilateral form, the orbital plate or os planum, which closes in the ethmoidal cells, and forms a considerable part of the inner wall of the orbit. The oi'bital plate articulates in front with the lachrymal, behind with the sphenoid, above with the frontal, and below with the orbital surfaces of the superior maxillary and palate bones. In front of the orbital plate the lateral mass extends forwards, under cover of the lachrymal bone ; and from this part descends the uncinate or cuneiform process, a long thin lamella which curves downwards, outwards, and backwards, formiug part of the inner wall of the maxillary antrum, and articulating at its extremity with the inferior turbinated bone. (See fig. 50.) The internal aspect forms part of the external waU of the nasal fossa, and consists of a thin, uneven, osseoiis plate, connected above with the cribriform lamella, and exhibiting a number of canals and grooves for branches of the olfactory nerve. It is divided at its back part by a channel, directed up- wards and forwards from its posterior margin to about its middle. This is called the superior meatus of the nose, and communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. The short margin which overhangs this channel constitutes the superior turUnated process or spongy bone. Below this is a slightly folded margin of much greater extent, and free in front, the inferior turbinated process or middle spongy bone, which overhangs the middle meatus of the nose. From the front of the middle meatus a passage, the infimdibulum, is prolonged upwards and forwards through the anterior ethmoidal ceUs, and opens iuto the frontal sinus. (See also fig. 54.) In the separate ethmoid bone the cells are open posteriorly and superiorly, but when the bone is in connection with the rest of the cranium these cells are closed, above by the frontal bone, and behind by the sphenoidal spongy bones. In the superior margin are two grooves, which complete with the frontal bone the internal orbital foramina. The CRIBRIFORM LAMELLA Corresponds in size to the incisura ethmoidalis of the frontal bone which it occupies. At the sides of the crista it is depressed into two grooves which lodge the olfactory bulbs ; and it is pierced by numerous foramina for transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The foramina, which lie along the middle of each groove, are simple perfora- tions ; the internal and external sets are longer, and are the orifices of small canals which subdivide as they descend on the central plate and lateral masses. At the anterior extremity is a small fissure at each side of the crista galli, close to its base, and external to this a foramen, connected usually by a slight groove with the anterior internal orbital foramen, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve.