METACARPAL BONES AND PHALANGES. 87 by lines which, proceeding from the sides of the head, pass upwards and coor, verge iu the second, third, and foui-th metacarpal bones opposite the middle of the carpal extremity, and in the fifth towards its inner side. The heads or digital extremities articulate with the proximal phalanges. Their smooth rounded surfaces are broader, and extend further on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones; and on the sides present hollows and elevations for the attachment of ligaments. The carpal extremity presents distinctive peculiarities in each metacarpal bone. That of the first has only one articular surface, concave from before backwards, and convex from side to side, which articulates with the trapezium ; and posteriorly a rough prominence, to which the extensor motacarpi pollicis is attached. The second presents a transversely concave surface which receives the trapezoid bone ; on the radial side it articulates by a small facet on its posterior part with the trapezium, on the ulnar side with the third metacai-pal bone, and by a narrow facet wedged between the third metacarpal and trapezoid bones, with the os magnum. . The third bone articulates superiorly with the os magnum, and on the sides with the contiguous metacarpal bones : at its posterior and outer angle it forms a projection upwards. The fourth articulates principally with the unciform bone above, but also by a narrow facet with the os magnum ; on its radial side are two smaU surfaces, and on the ulnar side one, for articulation with the adjacent metacarpal bones. The fifth articulates superiorly with the imciform bone by means of a concave surface inclined slightly outwards, and externally with the fourth metacarpal bone, while on its ulnar side it presents a rough and prominent tuberosity. From the proximal position of its epiphysis, the metacarpal bone of the thumb has been considered by Winslow and some other anatomists, as a phalanx of the first row, and the bone which it supports a phalanx of the middle row. THE DIGITAL PHALANOES. Fig. 78.—Eight Hand seen fkom behind. ^ The indications are the same as in the pre' ceding figure. Fig. 78. The digital phalanges, or internodia, are fourteen in number ; three for each finger, except the thumb, which has only two. In each instance the first or proximal phalanx is longer than the second, and the second longer than the third. Those of the Jkst row are slightly curved like the metacarpal bones. Their dorsal surfaces are smooth and transversely convex; the palmar are flat from side to side, and bounded by rough margins, which give insertion to the fibrous sheaths of the flexor ten- dons. Their proximal extremities are thick, and articulate each by a trans- versely oval concave surface with the corresponding metacarpal bono. Their distal extremities, smaller and moro