CONSTRICTOR URETHRiE MUSCLE. meets with its fellow of the opposite side behind the bulb, at the central point of the perina3um. Its fibres conceal Cowper's gland. The constrictor urethrce muscle consists of a number of transverse fibres extending across the arch of the pubis, some of them above and others below the membranous portion of the uretlira, and closely embracing it. In some bodies a tendinous raph($, placed over the middle of the urinary canal, separates each stratum into lateral halves. This muscle rests in contact with the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which separates it from the anterior fibres of the levator ani. The transverse constrictor of the urethra was known to Santorini. One of the representations of it, contained in his posthumous work, has been copied for the woodcut (Pig. 204). Indistinctly or partially noticed by other anatomists, the muscle was first fully described by Guthrie; and the whole of the muscular structure connected with the membranous part of the urethra was examined about the same time by Miiller, but the results were not published till a later period. (Guthrie, "Anatomy and Diseases of the !Neck of the Bladder," &c., 1834 ; Joannes Miiller, " Ueber die organischen Nervea der erectilen miinnlichen Geschlechts-Organe," &c., 1836.) Fig. 204.—Posterior View OP THE PuBES, Fig. 204. WITH PART OF THE BLADDER AND Urethra attached (from Santorini). J 1, body; 2, rami of the pubes ; 3, obturator internus muscle; 5, portion of the fundus and neck of the bladder laid open ; 6, the prostate gland; 7, trans- verse fibres of the compressor urethras muscle, passing above the urethra ; 8, similar fibres passing beneath that canal. Circular fibres of Santorini (stra- tum internum circulaxe, Miiller).— Beneath the transverse muscle just described is a series of circular in- voluntary muscular fibres, entirely surrounding the membranous part of the lurethra: these are continuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate, and are referred to in the description of that body. (See Structure of the Prostate.) A pubo-urethral muscle was described by James Wilson (Medico-Chirurgical Trans., London, vol. i. p. 176), and is sometimes referred to as Wilson's muscle, but has not been recognised as a separate muscle by succeeding anatomists who have given special attention to the subject of the muscular structures round the urethra. An unstripcd pubo-vcsical band has been described, descending from the back of the sym- physis to the neck of the bladder (Luschka). B.—IN THE FEMALE. In the female the anterior fibres of the levator ani embrace the vagina as they do the prostate in the male. The transversus perinoii and tlio spldncter ani aro arranged nearly in the same manner as in the male.