•MACMILLAN’S-PRIMERS- TTHTTTTTTT^ffffHTTfl .An,' I'lTHTffffffTfTTTfWTflnfflfflTTTTrTMTTTTffTTWfTMr '7—^ rj ty—cj ty-ny t r S t —*> c i ti i! h ii iinii li iiti n ii h n n ii ii ii H ii ii ii ii ii ii ii u ii innr SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK EDITED BY C.E.GUTHRIE WRIGHT mmhhZZmmhim550 885822 MSChttps ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b21538499 QjcUif 4 <XrvrXfV'>J Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015First Edition 1879. Reprinted 1880, 1883, 1885, 1889, 1893, 1905, 1907. i • S' A (r^c) GLASGOW : PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.PREFACE. This “ School Cookery Book ” has been written chiefly for the use of cookery classes in elementary schools. The theory of food is therefore explained in simple language, the recipes are given in small quantities, and the directions are very minute. It is hoped, however, that the book may prove useful also to others who desire to study the theory and practice of good economical cookery. The text is complete without the footnotes, which are inserted for the benefit of teachers and older people. The theoretical part has been submitted to, and approved by, an eminent chemist and two physicians.(Edinburgh School of (Eookcrp arth Domestic (Economt), JEtb. 3 AND 4 ATHOLL CRESCENT. FOUNDED OCTOBER 1875. Students are received for any number of selected Lessons or Courses, and may be boarded at the School. Special Curri- culum for “Housewife’s Diploma.” Teachers trained in Cookery, Laundry Work, Housewifery, Needlework, Dress- making, and Millinery; Lady Housekeepers, Cooks, and Laundresses trained; Lectures on the Theory of Education and Method of Teaching, on Home Sick Nursing, on the Elementary Chemistry of Food and the Physiology of Digestion, and on Housekeeping; Ladies trained as Popular Health Lecturers, and as Lecturers on Sick Nursing. For particulars, see Prospectus. All communications to be addressed to the Secretary.CONTENTS PART I.—THEORETICAL. page Introduction, . 7 The Materials of Food, 9 The Principles of Cookery, 16 The Adaptation of Food to varying circum- stances, 19 PART II.—PRACTICAL Table of Weights and Measures, ... 28 How to Choose Meat, &c., 29 Names and Uses of various pieces of Meat, . 30 To Cleanse Utensils, &c., 34 To Cleanse Vegetables, 37 General Directions for Cooking, ... 38 Soups, 46 Fish, 58 Meat—Roasting, 63 Broiling, 65 Boiling, 65 Stewing, ...... 68 Frying, 76 Cold Meat Cookery, 796 CONTENTS. PAGii Miscellaneous Recipes, 83 Cheap Dishes without Meat, .... 89 Vegetables, 94 Pastry, 103 Milk Puddings, . . . , . . .110 Boiled and Miscellaneous Puddings, . . . 117 Eggs, . . . . . . . , . .124 Sauces, 127 Bread, &c., 130 Drinks, 136 Sick Room Cookery, ...... 138 Infants' Food, . 148 APPENDIX. Suggestions for Arranging Cookery Classes in Elementary Schools, 152 Index, . . . . . . . . • *55THE SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK. PART I. THEORETICAL. INTRODUCTION. Motion and warmth are two essential conditions of the life of human beings. Even when the body seems to be quite still, movement is going on in every part of it. The blood is constantly being pumped by the heart, and carried to all parts of the body; the lungs move with every breath ; a change is caused in the brain by every thought. To produce movement, either external or internal, some force or exertion (not necessarily voluntary) is used, and all force involves wear and tear. This wear and tear takes place in the flesh and blood, the fat and bones, and other materials of which the body is composed. If these used-up materials are not replaced, the body will wear away, and the animal become exhausted and die. All living human bodies are warm.1 If the warmth 1 The temperature of the human body is about 98° Fahr., and in healthy persons is nearly uniform both in hot and in cold weather. Thermometers, instruments formeasuringheat, have been constructed by various persons : the one made by Fahrenheit is in most general use. Freezing point is 320 (° means degrees); temperate, 550; summer heat, 76° ; blood heat, 98°; boiling point (water), 2120. &8 INTRODUCTION. is not kept up they die. In keeping up this warmth something is used up, and this must be replaced. Food replaces the materials used up by the move- ment ol our bodies, keeps up warmth, and gives power of movement, or, as it is more correctly called, force. Food cannot, however, accomplish these ob- jects in its natural state. It must be reduced into a fluid form so as to be able to pass through very small channels, and to be carried along in the blood. After it enters the bloodvessels it must mix with air,1 drawn in through the lungs and skin, and through the changes effected by the air and by various other organs of the body, the food is gradually made fit to replace all wasted and worn-out materials. The wholesomeness of food depends on three con- ditions :— 1. On the selection of the right materials, whether animal or vegetable, and on their use in proper pro- portions. 2. On cooking the materials in such a manner as to make them digestible,—that is, capable of being readily turned into material fit for replacing the waste of the body already spoken of. 3- On adapting the use of food to the different cir- cumstances of age, employment, climate, and state of health. 1 That part of air called oxygen.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 9 CHAPTER I. the materials of food Before learning the principles of Cookery, it is impor- tant to know something about the composition of the different kinds of food, in order to choose those that are best fitted to keep the body in health and vigour. For this purpose let us consider one or two of our most important foods. Milk is the most perfect human food that we have; infants live on it alone. W c find that if milk stands for a little, the cream or fatty part separates and rises to the top, leaving the skim milk below. 1 he cream is the principal part which gives warmth, but it does not repair the used-up materials of the body. "1 he skim milk does this. Skim milk can be separated into curd and whey. Curd is, strictly speaking, the flesh- forming part: whey supplies water, sugar, and mineral substances Bread is another very important kind of food.. If we take a little of the flour of which it is made, tie it in a cloth and squeeze it in cold water, we shall find that a milky or cloudy liquor will be formed in the water. The same can be got out of various grains, especially rice; also out of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca and sago. This milky appearance is caused by starch, another of the materials which will keep up heat, but will not form flesh. Inside of the cloth there will be found a grey sticky or glutinous paste, which will be spoken of presently. Sugar also is an important agent in producing and keeping up warmth. These three substances fats, starch, and sugar—may therefore be named—THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. I. Warmth or Heat-giving Foods.1 Table showing the Chief Warmth-giving Foods. Fats. Cream. Butter. Oil. Yoik of Egg. Suet. Dripping. Lard. Starch. Found in Flour. Potatoes. Arrowroot. Corn Flour. Rice. Semolina. Tapioca. And most Garden Vegetables. Sugar. Found in Sugar Cane. Beetroot. Honey. Fruit. Milk. . heat-giving foods, after digestion, are passed into the blood, which is then pumped by the heart into the lungs. The blood is spread out in little thin hair-like vessels all over the lungs, so that the air breathed into the lungs may mix with it. The mix- tuie of that portion of the air called oxygen with the fatty particles floating in this blood, causes in living creatures a burning up of these fatty particles, and this combustion produces heat, and is so like the process of burning which goes on in a fire, that it is sometimes called animal burning or combustion." This mixture of fresh air with the other particles of food floating in the blood, also causes one of the many changes which they pass through, before they are in a fit state to become part of the body. We must now see what kinds of food, or rather what parts of food, will make flesh, and so build up 1 Technically called Carbonaceous Foods, because they contain a great deal of carbon. Coal, peat, and wood are the carbon burnt in a common fire The air supplies the oxygen, which may be with bellows to make the fire bum briskly. 2 The technical name of this process is Oxidation.the materials of food. II the body. The white of egg1 is the type of food which is required for this purpose. Lean meat- and skim milk3 are of the same nature, lhe sticky or glutinous substance4 which was left in the cloth after the starch was squeezed out of the flour, is a flesh former; also parts of almost all grams, such as oats, and barley, and the glutinous5 matter of peas and beans. All these substances will make flesh—-that is, will replace the used-up materials of the body—ana we shall therefore call them II. Flesh-formers.6 Table showing the Chief Flesh-forming Foods. Animal. Lean Meat. Fish. Poultry. Skim Milk. Cheese. White of Egg. Vegetable. Flesh-forming Material exists largely in— Peas. Flour, ) made Beans. Macaroni, [ from Lentils. Semolina, ) wheat. Oatmeal. Rye. Barley. Maize. It will be seen from this table that both the animal and vegetable kingdoms supply flesh-formers. Half a pound of animal food contains a larger amount of flesh-forming power than half a pound of vegetable food. But the same amount of flesh-forming power may be derived from certain vegetable products (which are much cheaper) if taken in large quantities. T. he vegetable products which yield the greatest amount of 1 Albumen. . , . ... 2 The juice of lean meat consists almost entirely of myosin, which is of the nature of albumen. 3 When milk is turned into cheese, this substance is called casein. 4 Glutin. 5 Legumin. . . 6 Technically called Nitrogenous Foods, as nitrogen is the flesh- forming element common to them all. They are also called albuminoid—i.e., white of egg like.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 12 “ f food whid' replaces the used-up materials ,?7ee,vb°‘LZr*’ biws’and lentils’ M i ve ;u ses' Persons who have little or no annual food must find their chief flesh-forming food ' the pulses, because these contain from two to three mes as much flesh-forming power as even the grain? writes™^ aT! the“ that resPect' Dr- Parkes 1 S’ A labouring man by ringing the changes “r1’ ™lze> Peas and beans, rice and macaroni ( vhich is made from corn), to which may be added ieese and bacon occasionally, may bring up his children as well nourished as those of the richest people and at a small cost. Oatmeal, the most fbod nflS °fihC CCreal grains and formerly the staple food of our finest men, .... Indian corn, .... peas and beans and rice are far less used by our pooler classes than should be the case.” . }.he names of beat-givers and flesh-formers correctly indicate the chief work of these two important classes ° °?ds‘ ®ut b°r the sake of exactness it must be stated that flesh-forming foods certainly do a little towards keeping up warmth; whilst, on the other Land, heat-givers do a little towards making flesh. the power of movement—force—is now believed to be produced chiefly by heat-giving foods. With regard to bones and some other parts of our bodies which require mineral matter,—as salt, lime, iron, etc., it is enough to observe here, that with the v pP!*« 2I’m ‘7?rSOnal Care of Health " by E. A. Parkes M D ledee nricUeblfoed 7 fhe S°piet,y for Promoting Christian Know- ledge price is.) Professor Parkes was head of the Government Hospital at Netley. We are indebted to him for most important on soldiers f°°d '' he had great opportunities for observations on soJd.ers, making great exertions on definite rations weighed out Fuller information is given in his larger work on HygieneTHE MATERIALS OF FOOD. i3 supplied in vegetables including gfc Lime is also supplied in water and 1 mineral matters are generally called— III. Salts. They are essential to the health of the body About two-thirds of the human body consist of water. In a full-grown person about five pints pass off daily in various ways. It is, therefore, evident that if one object of food is to replace the waste of the body, must be supplied to replace what goes out, and must therefore form an important part of food. Liquid foods (milk, soups, and drinks) consist largely of water. It is not, however, necessary to replace the waste entirely by drinking liquid, as a large proportion of all apparently solid food is in reality water. Fruit and vegetables contain a great deal of water, and there is much even in animal food. Water does not directly nourish the body either by forming flesh or giving heat. Its chief uses are—a, to mix with and soften solid food, and thus help the various stages of digestion; b, to assist in carrying the food to the various parts of the body, where it is required to re- place what has been wasted ; c, to mix with and help to carry off matter which has been used up.1 It is 1 The blood contained in the arteries conveys the digested food to the various parts of the body, and that contained in the veins removes the used-up matter. More than three-fourths of the blood consists of water. IV. Waterthe materials of food. 14 S,;,T0rtant th^r -vater for co«king and drinking ould be pure. If it is impossible to obtain nure vrater it should first be boiled and then filtered.1 iere is a class of foods that might be arranged ’ •* ■> .s -s or no use in repairing the waste of the body, but used in moderation, they assist in making food more palatable ; and by helping to draw out the saliva in the mouth and the other fluids in the stomach which are required to mix with the food, they assist it on through the wonderful changes which have to take place before it is taken into the blood and becomes part of the human body. The four classes of foods—heat-givers, flesh-formers, salts and water—must be represented in our diet, if the body is to be kept in a healthy state.2 Of these our, cookery has chiefly to do with heat-giving and flesh-forming foods; and it will be observed that in- clination leads us to couple foods together, so that one may supply what the other wants. For example, veal ^'rcctions for making a cheap filter are given at page 80 It should, however, be noted that a filter only removes solid matter nn=hnfStfraVe 1 SuIK’ etcp but u cannot take away the more danger- lead etc6^ W1'ch are °ften d)sso,ved in the water, such as sewage, .. .nrhe Chlef elernents of the body are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon and salts. A certain amount of these, after undergoing various changes and combinations, passes off from the body daily and is replaced as follows oxygen, chiefly by the air entering the body by the lungs ; hydrogen, chiefly in the form of water; nitrogen, by flesh-forming or nitrogenous foods: carbon by warmth-giving or carbonaceous foods; and salts, by the salts mentioned above.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 15 and poultry are flesh-formers, but are deficient in heat- giving material, therefore we take bacon with them. Pork is very fat, therefore we take peas pudding with it. To corn-flour, tapioca, &c., we add milk, and so on. A General Statement of the Component Parts of our Chief Foods. Warmth-giving Flesh-forming Minerals or M ATERIALS. Materials. Salts. Milk contains Cream (fatty). Skim milk. Various salts. (n Eggs ,, Yolk (fatty). White of egg. Hardly any salts ; the O shell which makes the bones of the d chicken con- £ tains limeand 5 other salts. < Meat (includ- Fat. The lean part. A very small ing fat), . quantity. Wheat con- Much starch. Considerable Lime and tains, . . flesh-forming material, other salts. Oats contain, Do. do. Much do. Do. do. Peas and Less starch. Do. do. Do. do. V) beans con- O tain, . . 0 Potato con- Much starch. Very littleflesh- Various salts. ll, tains, . . forming rna- <D terial. Id Tapioca 's 0 cd 4-» b/3 Sago . . ( § Arrowroot ( p Much starch. Hardly any. Hardly any. 0) Com flour) d > Garden vege-\ tables, roots ( and leaves f Some starch. Very little. Salts plentiful. contain, . / Fraits contain Sugars. ... A little.16 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. The chief lesson to be learned from this chapter is, that different classes of food must be represented in the daily diet, and that variety of food is essential to health. A second important lesson is, that food which will form flesh is to be found not only in milk, eggs, and butcher’s meat, but also in vegetable food, especially in pulses and in grains (wheat, barley, oats, &c.), and this food in these pulses and grains is much cheaper than the same kind of food when bought in the form of animal food. CHAPTER II. THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. Food is cooked that it may be made acceptable to the taste, and digestible. The chief modes of cooking are roasting, broiling, boiling, stewing, baking, and frying. Of these modes, boiling is the most digestible; roasting the most nutri- tious; stewing the most economical. In this chapter we shall treat of foods as commonly known, viz., animal food (including milk and eggs) and vegetable food. These require very different management in cooking. Two general rules may be laid down— 1. Meat, milk, and eggs should be cooked at a moderate heat (about i6o° Fahr.). 2. Vegetables (including grains) should be cooked for a short time at least at boiling point (2120 Fahr.). 1. Animal food. Every one knows that when an egg is boiled for four minutes the white becomes quite solid. The material of which white of egg consists is called albumen. Similar substances exist largely in milk, in fish, and in lean meat, but not in fat. If milk17 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. is cooked at boiling point this substance turns into a tough skin ; and if fish and meat are cooked too long at boiling point the juice hardens and the fibre becomes tough rags. Meat is not only unpalatable when thus hardened, but is less digestible. Meat to be made into soup must be differently treated from meat to be served as a joint. To make soup, we must draw the juices out of the meat, and for this purpose the meat must be cut into small pieces, put on with cold water and salt to draw out the juices, slowly warmed, then simmered—not boiled. If, however, the meat is to be cooked for eating, we must on the contrary keep in the juices. This is done by exposing the meat for a few minutes to a strong heat which hardens the albumen on the surface, and so forms a case which keeps the juices from running out. The special modes of forming this casing will be found in the general directions for the different ways of cooking. Salted meat, however, should be cooked without this process of hardening, and should be put on with cold water, to soften the fibre and draw out some of the salt. The power of salt to draw out fluids causes salted meats to be much less nutritious than fresh meats; because not only is the fibre har- dened by the salt, but the nourishing fluids are drawn out, and are thrown away with the brine. Salt does not affect fat in the same way—hence well-cooked fat bacon is more digestible than ham. Hard water is best for boiling fresh meat for eating, as the lime in it helps to harden the outer surface. Soft water is best for soup and salt meat, as it does not exercise the same hardening effect. The water in which meat is boiled should be used as stock for soups or gravies, as certain of the nutritive properties of the meat are found in it.i8 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. The finer pieces of meat which are juicy and tender in fibre are generally roasted or boiled, as these pro- cesses serve to retain the juices, and sufficiently soften the fibre. Coarser and hard pieces should be stewed, as long, slow heat is needed to soften them. Gristly pieces should be slowly boiled or stewed ; because it is only when cooked with liquid that the gristle can become soft. Dry heat, as in roasting, whether before the fire or in the oven, makes gristle tough like leather. Fish contains less albumen than most kinds of animal food; but the same general principle of cookery should be applied to it. The oily kinds, such as mackerel, herring, and salmon, the most nutritious though least digestible, are best suited for grilling. In white fish the oil is principally contained in the liver, which is generally removed from the fish, but may be used in various ways. White fish are gener- ally boiled, fried, or baked. The liquor in which fish is boiled should be used as stock for soup, as there is much nutriment in it, and it is to be regretted that it is so generally thrown away. 2. Vegetables.—Vegetables, especially grains, con- tain a large quantity of starch, which is most unwhole- some as an article of diet, unless the grains are swollen and burst. To accomplish this, it must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and be subjected, for a few minutes at least, to a high degree of heat. The liquid is, in certain preparations, supplied in the form of fat which melts with heat. Suet, butter or dripping may be mixed with flour; but great care must be taken to have the fat very finely mixed with the flour, as when this is not done the flour cakes together, and the melted fat cannot reach it to assist in bursting the grains. For this reason, short crust isADAPTATION OF FOOD. 19 more wholesome than puff paste, as in the former the starch and fat are more thoroughly mixed. The use of baking powder makes pastry, etc., lighter. In cooking garden vegetables, the heat should reach boiling point, not only because the starch cells must be burst, but because there is a good deal of confined air in vegetables which it is desirable by this means to set free. The water may, however, after five or ten minutes, be reduced to slow boiling, as the full boiling point has the effect of hardening the woody fibre of which vegetables consist largely. The bursting of the starch cells can be carried out at a somewhat lower heat (170° or 180° Fahr.). The cooking of garden vegetables in hard water helps to hold in the nourish- ing juices; but it is at the risk of the lime in the water hardening the woody fibre. Therefore, while hard water makes vegetables more nutritious, soft water makes them more digestible. CHAPTER III. THE ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO VARYING CIRCUMSTANCES. Hunger and thirst are instincts which indicate to us that food is required ; taste is a sense which assists us in selecting food ; but as the stomach can be trained to bad as well as to good habits, it is necessary to exercise intelligence, not only in choosing food, but in adapting its use to the varying circumstances of life. Food should be adapted to I. Different ages. II. Different climates. III. Different employments. IV. Different states of health.ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 20 I. Different Ages. Infants should, if possible, be fed on their mother’s milk. When circumstances prevent this, substitutes are required for which special recipes and directions will be found at p. 148. The food of children from weaning to the age of seven or eight years should consist chiefly or milk and eggs taken separately or made into well-cooked puddings, with bread, semo- lina, macaroni, rice, etc. Their digestion is not strong enough to eat much vegetable or animal food, as these contain much fibre, which is more difficult to digest. Meat, fish, soups, and vegetables should, however, be occasionally given in small quantities, h ixed hours for meals are important, as when regu- krly given the stomach becomes prepared to receive them. The intervals should not be longer than four hours.1 Young persons (say from eight to twenty years of age) require a larger quantity of all kinds of food in proportion to their size than full-grown persons. The exercise natural to the young uses up much of the heat-giving foods, and increases the waste of the body ; the digestion of the young is generally active ; and, besides, fresh materials are in constant demand to provide for the growth of the body. They should have meals of warm food (more easily digested than cold) at intervals of about four hours; the chief meal—dinner— 1 Children should from the first be taught to chew their food well, not only to break down the fibre of meat but to mix the soft starchy foods with saliva, and thus enable them to undergo the first important change in preparing them to become part of the human body. Children should not be encc uraged to eat between meals, as it spoils the appetite for regular food. If really hungry, a piece of dry bread only should be given, as this will satisfy a child's hunger without tempting it to eat unduly at irregular hours.ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 21 should be in the middle of the day. Milk and eggs should still form a large part of the diet, also farin- aceous food, especially oatmeal porridge. Stimulants, such as tea and coffee, should, if taken, be weak, coffee with two-thirds milk. Healthy adults should be able to take a free mixture of all wholesome foods, variously cooked, and taken at intervals of about five hours. 1 he circum- stances of climate and employment must, however, be considered. The digestive powers of elderly people are weaker than in middle life, the food should, therefore, be nourishing and easy of digestion ; it should be taken warm and at shorter intervals than in middle life. As the system is apt to become lowered during the night a light nourishing supper is advisable, and in cases of debility, also a little warm food during the night. II. Climate. More exercise is usually taken in cold than in hot climates, and this causes a more rapid wearing out of the materials of the body. The increased rapidity of breathing caused by exercise, promotes the mixture of the oxygen of the air with the minute particles of food in the blood, and so uses or burns up more of these, and causes demand for increased supplies of food. Animal food is stimulating and exciting; it is there- fore more suitable for cold and temperate climates than for hot. When a false appetite is created for it in hot climates by the use of condiments, it is apt to produce various disorders. Fat is not easily digested unless exercise is taken freely : more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce heat than is required for starches and sugars. There is more oxygen in the air22 ADAPTATION OF FOOD. in cold than in hot weather. It is in cold weather and climates, therefore, that fat can be most easily digested and turned into warmth. As cold contracts the pores of the skin, there is then much less escape of moisture than when the weather is warm. This moisture should be replaced by liquids, fruits, and vegetables, in order that the temperature of the body may be kept uniform. Of the heat-giving foods, starches and sugars are the most suitable for warm climates, as they are easily digested. III. Different Employments. The circumstances of employment affect not only the kinds of food consumed, but the hours of the various meals. In-door Occupations.—Those who are engaged m sedentary occupations cannot, in general, digest so much or so easily as those who are employed in active out-door work. It is, therefore, necessary that they should select foods that give in small bulk the amount of nourishment required, and that these should be served in a light and digestible form. Those engaged in severe mental work should have animal food, if possible, as part of their diet; garden vegetables should be used, but in small quantities, as they are difficult to digest. The fatty heat-giving foods should be repre- sented in their more digestible forms of cream, butter, dripping, or toasted bacon; and the starchy foods, chiefly represented by bread, white or brown, should be freely used; also well-cooked porridge with milk, which is a nourishing, digestible, and cheap food. Clerks and others engaged in offices should take only a light luncheon, and defer dinner till the chief work of the day is over. Many do themselves much23 ADAPTATION OF FOOD. harm by eating nothing between breakfast and a late dinner.' This in some cases leads to more being eaten at dinner than can be properly digested, and in others to a state of exhaustion which indisposes for eating enough. Persons engaged in literary pursuits, who have to ■work in the evening or at night, should dine in the middle of the day, using, if they can afford it, animal food, with a due proportion of the other classes of food mentioned in last chapter. Such work causes much waste of the material of the body, especially of the brain.1 Supper should be light, consisting of cocoa, with bread and butter or biscuits, milk, soup, tripe, fish boiled or fried, onions stewed with milk, stewed macaroni, stewed fruits with rice, etc. It is advisable that those engaged in in-door occu- pations should, when possible, live at some distance from their place of work, as the walk to and fro will promote digestion as well as general health. Out-door Occupations.—The quantity and quality of food required for out-door workers differ considerably from those needed by persons engaged in sedentary occupations. The digestion being in general more vigorous, a larger quantity of food can be consumed, It is, therefore, advisable that a con- siderable proportion of the flesh-forming food should consist of materials drawn from the vegetable king- dom, as haricot beans, peas, macaroni, grain, etc., because these are less rapidly digested than animal food, and require to be taken in considerable quan- tities to supply the necessary amount of flesh-forming power. Further, it is not necessary to make dishes 1 White fish (variously prepared) and onions contain materials which are said to be specially suited to replace the waste of the brain.ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 24 for out-door workers light and quickly digestible • it is more important to have them solid and supporting. For example, in suet puddings and dumplings, baking powder and bread crumbs need not be used. Porridge may be made with hot water instead of cold. Crappit heads, fat brose, haggis, poor man’s goose, fried liver and bacon (see recipes), and other nutritious but some- what indigestible articles, may safely form part of the diet of labouring men. Most labourers can obtain cheese, bacon, flour barley, oatmeal, rice, peas, and beans. With these and with potatoes and fresh vegetables, grown it may be in their own gardens, a few flavouring herbs (as thyme, mint, marjoram, sage, and parsley), which could easily be cultivated in a small garden/they may obtain a thoroughly nutritious and varied diet. Cheese especially ranks near animal food in the amount of nourishment it contains. A dinner of bread and cheese, accompanied by half a lettuce (too little used by the poor), or an apple, water cress, or a few dan- delion leaves, gives all the kinds of food needed to support the body in health. But these materials even when more lightly pre- pared are unsuitable for children’s diet, without the addition of milk, and it is much to be regretted that this important element of diet is so difficult to be obtained in country districts. The custom of allowing each cottager grass for a cow, seems to be rapidly dying out, and one consequence of it is that children are insufficiently nourished. Landed proprietors and tenant farmers could hardly confer a greater benefit upon their cottagers, than by providing a plentiful supply of milk for them to purchase. In places where there is insufficient pasturage for cows, goats might be kept.adaptation of food. 25 IV. Different States of Health. Diets for those in health are embodied in the pre- ceding remarks. In sickness, much of the piogress of the patient towards recovery depends on the giving ot judiciously chosen and well prepared food. The digestive powers being generally weakened, food is wanted in smaller quantities, and in a more easily digested form, than in health. Detailed recipes may be found at page 138. The following general remarks indicate the kinds of food required for certain illnesses. In Fevers give liquid (not solid) food in small quantities and frequently; cooling drinks (whey, lemonade, apple water, etc.); butter milk or sweet milk. When the fever lasts long it is sometimes necessary to give beef tea and strong soup to keep up strength. As the fever subsides give milk puddings, gruel, bread and milk, bread jelly, calfs foot or ox foot jelly, arrowroot, fruit jelly, beef tea, and soup. In convalescence give broiled or boiled (not fried) white fish, whiting is best; later give eggs and animal food beginning with tripe and mutton. In fever, more perhaps than in any other disease, diet should be regulated by the doctor, as relapses are often produced by irregularity of diet. Rheumatic Fever. Give entirely vegetable diet, vegetable soups, milk puddings, gruel, arrow- root, jelly, porridge, mashed potatoes, bread and butter, lemon juice in water, but without sugar. If meat is given, either solid or in soups, it aggravates the pain. Dysentery and Diarrhoea. Give neither fruits nor green vegetables ; avoid meat, especially salted or dried. Give milk (previously boiled), milk puddings, r* P • ■**ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 26 rice water, boiled rice, and, occasionally a mealy potato boiled or roasted. Constipation. Give brown bread, fresh and stewed fruits, green vegetables, including lettuces, water cress, dandelion leaves. A tumbler of cold water an hour before breakfast is occasionally recom- mended. Indigestion and Stomach Complaints. If a doctor is in attendance the diet will of course be regulated ; but where there is no doctor the sufferer may be cautioned generally against the use of the following articles of diet, which are difficult of diges- tion:—flatulent vegetables (as peas, beans, cabbage); fat and greasy dishes, Avarmed up meats, too many sweet dishes, and much tea. Give digestible food plainly dressed; in meats prefer mutton and tripe; give stale or toasted bread, rice, white fish, spinach, vege- table marrow, the flower of cauliflower or brocoli, fruit (if taken at all) only in the morning and quite ripe. Milk generally requires to be mixed with warm water or with potash, soda, or lime water; half a tumbler of warm water (not hot) taken during dinner or half an hour after it, promotes digestion. Colds and Influenza. Avoid much solid food. Take soft food such as bread and milk, milk puddings, and soups, also warm drinks to produce perspiration, as gruel, oatmeal drink, tea, (not coffee as it checks perspiration). Beef Tea is of much value during most severe illnesses, as patients can often take it when nothing else is acceptable. It is however not sufficient alone to sustain strength for any length of time; it is only one part of meat, and unless the fibre of meat (or some other flesh-forming food corresponding to meat) and warmth-giving food are given soon, the patientADAPTATION OF FOOD. 27 will suffer from partial starvation. The same remarks apply to ox or calfs’ feet jelly. Tea is useful in a sick room when properly made and used, and is preferable to coffee. It should never be given in the evening or at night, as it pre- vents sleep, but a cup of tea early in the morning, is generally most refreshing to a restless or suffering person. For recipe see page 136. The following books are recommended to students who desire to study the science of food further. Personal Care of Health, E. A. Parkes, M.D., F. R.S., is., Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Animal Physiology, J. G. M‘Kendrick, M.D., F.R.S.E., is. 6d., W. and R. Chambers. Manual of Physiology, W. B. Carpenter, M.D., 12s. 6d., J. and A. Churchill. Practical Physiology, E. Lankester, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., 4s., Hardwicke and Bogue. Physiology of Common Life, G. H. Lewes, 12s., Wm. Black- wood and Sons. Treatise on Food and Dietetics, F. W. Pavy, M.D., F. R. S., 15s., Simpkin, Marshall and Co. Lectures on Food, H. Letheby, M.B., M.A., 6s., Bailliere, Tindall and Cox. Food, A. H. Church, M.A., Oxon., 3s., Chapman and Hall. Practical Dietary, E. Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S., 3s. 6d., Walton and Maberly. Manual of Diet in Health and Disease, T. King Chambers, 10s. 6d., Smith, Elder and Co. Human Health, Robley Dunglison, M.D., 14s., Lea and Blanchard. Chemistry of Common Life, J. F. W. Johnston, M.A., ns. 6d., Wm. Blackwood and Sons. The Management of Infancy, Andrew Combe, M.D., 2s. 6d., Maclachlan and Stewart.28 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. PART II. PRACTICAL. I’—tables of imperial weights and MEASURES.1 avoirdupois weight. Used for weighing all articles except gold, silver, etc. 16 Drams (dr.) make i ounce (oz.) 16 Ounces ,, i pound (lb.) 28 Pounds ,, 1 quarter (qr.) 4 Quarters ,, 1 hundredweight (cwt). 20 Hundredweights ,, 1 ton. It is useful to remember that— 14 Pounds make 1 stone. 8 Stones ,, 1 hundredweight. 112 Pounds ,, 1 hundredweight. liquid measure of capacity. Used for measuring water, milk, etc. 4 Gills make 1 pint (pt.). 2 Pints ,, 1 quart (qt.). 4 Quarts ,, 1 gallon (gal.). DRY MEASURE OF CAPACITY. Used for measuring grain, seeds, flour, etc. 2 Gallons make 1 peck (pk.). 4 Pecks ,, 1 bushel (bush.). 8 Bushels ,, 1 quarter (1 qr.) By the Weights and Measures Act of 1878, which came into operation January 1st, 1879, it is declared that no person is allowed to sell by any denomination of weight or measure other than one of the imperial weights or measures. “No local or customary meas- ure, nor the use of the heaped measure, shall be lawful."HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT. 29 HOMELY MEASURES. 2 Tea spoonfuls make 1 dessert spoonful. 2 Dessert spoonfuls ,, 1 table spoonful. 1 Heaped table spoonful of solids is about 1 oz. About 9 table spoonfuls of liquid... make ^ pint. A pinch is about the eighth of a tea spoonful. II.-HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT, ETC. Good Beef should be a deep red colour, and the fat a pure white. The finer pieces are generally deli- cately marked with veins of fat. The fiesh must be firm, and when pressed with the finger no mark should remain. Good beef should not become moist when kept. Good Mutton should be a deep red colour, and the fat white, not intergrained with the lean, and very hard. Small-boned old mutton is the best. Pork should be white, finely grained, smooth and dry. The fat should be firm, and the rind thin. Young Fowls should have smooth skin and legs, pliable joints and breast-bones, plump breasts and necks, bright-red combs, and the flesh should be finely grained. A Ham. To choose a ham, put a thin-pointed knife into it as close to the bone as possible. If it comes out with any unpleasant smell, and looking oily, the ham is not good. Fish. All fish should be used as soon as possible after it is caught. Some people, however, prefer cod after it has been a night in salt and water, as this makes it firmer. In fresh fish the eyes should always be bright and prominent, the body stiff, the gills a bright red colour. Garden Vegetables should be as fresh as pos-30 NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. sible, and crisp. Potatoes, carrots, and turnips may, however, be kept for some time without injury. Eggs should be as fresh as possible. If there is a doubt about freshness, hold the egg up to a light. If the egg is clear, it is good; if the shell is not trans- parent, or if you see dark spots on it, the egg is bad. To preserve eggs, place newly-laid eggs in layers in a small box, and cover each layer thickly with bran. W hen the box is full, nail it down and keep it in a dry cool place, turning the box over once a week, to prevent the yolks adhering to the shells. III.—NAMES AND USES OF VARIOUS PIECES OF MEAT. The divisions and names of the pieces of meat given are those in most general use in England and in Scotland; they, however, vary in different localities. Explanation of diagram of the usual English mode of cutting up an ox :— 1. Cheek, generally stewed. 2. The neck, or sticking piece, and the clod, used for soups and mincing. 3. The chuck, three ribs, used for stewed steak. 4. The middle rib, four ribs, generally roasted; an economical roast. 5. The fore rib, five ribs ) . 6. The sirloin j the best roasting P,ece 7. The rump, the best part for steaks. 8. The aitch bone, generally boiled. 9. The buttock or round, generally salted, sometimes roasted. 10. The mouse buttock or round, generally salted. 11. The leg, stewed; stock for soup. 12. The thick flank, generally boiled. 13. The thin flank, generally boiled. 14. The brisket, generally salted and boiled. 15. The shoulder or leg of mutton piece.3i NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT.32 NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. Explanation of diagram of the usual Scotch mode of cutting up an ox :— i A. Cheek. IB. Chip, generally used for hare-soup. 2. Neck, used for soups, stews. 3 and 4, Spare ribs, generally roasted; sometime., stewed. 5. The ribs, roasted; sometimes boned, rolled, and salted. 6. First runner. 1 his is cut close by the shoulder-bone, and is used for boiling or stewing. 7 and 8. Also runners. These two are sometimes divided across by the dotted line, and the fleshy end (next the head) used for stewing, boiling, or beefsteak pie, and the thin end salted. Sometimes only two runners are cut, sometimes only one. 9. Nine holes, used chiefly for pickling, sometimes for plain boiling or stewing; not so fat as the brisket. 1 o. Brisket, stewed or corned. 11. Marrow bone. 12. Ilough or shin, used for soup; the flesTiy end is good for slewing. 13. Sirloin, cut generally into three parts, called the double side, middle cut (or Scotch and English), and the thin end. 14. Thin flank, used for boiling; often salted. 15 Thick flank or fleshy end of heuck-bone, used for stewing steak, or salted and rolled, also for pies; no bone in it. 16. Heuck bone, best for gridiron steak. 17. Rump, generally boned and salted; sometimes stewed with the bone in, or boiled. It is used in France forpot-aufeu. 18. The round. This weighs about 30 to 40 lbs.; the upper part is sometimes cut into steaks. Sometimes the whole is cut into two rounds; a thick flap of fat, called the shaugh. is left to roll round the bare side of the bone. 19. Used for mince, stew, or beef tea. Explanation of English mode of cutting up a sheep :— 1. The leg, roasted or boiled. 2. The loin, chump end, ge erally stewed. 3. The loin, best end, made into chops. 4. The neck, best end, made into chops. 5. The neck, scrag end; soup, stews. 6. The head, boiled; made into soup. 7. The breast, stewed. 8. The shoulder, generally baked, sometimes roasted. [Two loins make a saddle.]NAMES ETC OF PIECES OF MEAT. 33 The usual English mode of cutting up a sheep. The usual Scotch mode of cutting up a sheep. Explanation of Scotch mode of cutting up a sheep:— 1. Gigot, leg, or haunch; roasted or boiled. 2. Loin. This is the finest piece for chops; sometimes roasted. 3. Flank or flap, used for soup or cheap stews. 4. The bark-ribs and neck, used for chops, stews, and soup. 5. The brisket or breast, generally stewed.TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. 34 6. The shoulder. When 4 and 5 are not cut through at the black line which separates them, the shoulder may be removed at the dots, and it is generally baked, sometimes roasted. If a large shoulder is wanted, cut it off close to the bone; if, on the other hand, it is desired to leave the meat beneath for chops, the shoulder should be taken off by the seam. 7. The head, boiled; used for broth. 8. The shank, used for soup; sometimes stewed. 9. The trotters, made into broth with the head; sometimes stewed. IV.—TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. Range or Grate.—Clear out the fire-place, pick out all the cinders for future use, throw away the ashes. With a long brush sweep the soot down from the chim- ney as far as you can reach. If it is a close range, sweep out all the flues with brushes for the purpose. Blackleading.—If there is any grease on the range or grate wash it off with very hot water in which a little soda has been melted; dry. Mix some black- lead to a stiff paste with water, dip the brush in it, and brush the grate and bars, putting more blacklead on the brush when required. Let the grate become quite dry ; then with a dry brush rub off as much of the blacklead as possible; polish the grate thoroughly with a soft brush, using it lightly and beginning at the top of the grate. Brass Knobs.—Rub these either with polishing paste or with bath brick dust and water mixed into a paste. Dip a dry soft cloth in a little dry brick dust, and polish the knobs. Chamois leather is prefera ) e to cloth. . Steel. Rub steel well with emery paper, then polish with chamois leather. . . To lay (i.e., prepare) a Fire.—The chief thing to attend to in laying a fire is to leave spaces for air, as35 TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. after the light is put to the fire, it is the mixture of one part of air (oxygen), with the fuel, that enables the fire to burn. Put two or three cinders in the bottom of the fireplace with spaces between; crumple up loosely pieces of paper and lay them in next. Then place well dried sticks loosely one across another. Finally, lay lightly some larger cinders on the top. Light the fire, and let it catch thoroughly before adding coal and more cinders. Iron Pans.—Wash thoroughly outside and inside with hot water and soda. Rub the inside with a washing cloth or pot range1 with soap and sand and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water; dry. If onions have been cooked in the pan, the odour may be removed by using fine ashes instead of sand. Enamelled Pans.—Wash well inside and outside with boiling water and soda. Then rub the inside with crushed egg shells, soap, and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water; dry. Brass Pans.—If the pans have stood unused for some time, rub them with vinegar and salt to remove any verdigris. Clean with polishing paste, or with bath brick dust and water, then rinse well out with hot water and polish with a soft cloth or chamois leather. Copper Pans.—Wash in hot water, with soap or soda added. Rinse and dry the pan. Scour it inside and outside with a paste of finely shredded Brooke’s soap and water, taking care always to rub in one direction. Rinse the pan in cold water and dry it. Polish it (outside only) with dry whiting. Polish the steel handle with emery paper. Copper pans are not required for any recipes in this book. ! Lhiefly used in Scotland. It consists of a bunch of stiff fine twigs or heather roots, cut evenly across and tightly tied together.36 TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. If pans of all kinds cannot be cleaned immediately after using them, let them stand filled with cold water. Tins.—Wash with hot water and soda. Make a paste of whitening and water; dip a cloth into this, rub the tins well with it, taking care to clean all the crevices. When dry rub it off with a second cloth, and then polish, using a little dry whitening. Chamois leather polishes best. Cake Tins.—Do not wash or polish the inside of these; they should be scraped if anything is sticking to them, and then rubbed with a dry cloth. Knives and Forks.—Wipe the knives and forks with a dish cloth ; if greasy, dip in hot water and soda, taking care not to wet the handles ; dry. Rub the knife board with the brick dust, rub all parts of the blade on it, taking care that the sharp edge does not come against the board. Rub the forks with a cloth and dry brick dust. Polish both knives and forks with a dry cloth, taking care to remove all the brick dust between the prongs. If the forks have a flavour about them of fish, onions, &c., this may be removed by sticking them into earth or powdered ashes. Tables and Shelves.—Wash first with warm water and a coarse flannel cloth. Sprinkle over some coarse sand, rub the scrubbing brush with soft soap, brush the wood, rubbing with the grain if possible. Wash the wood over again with warm water and a flannel cloth. If there is grease on the wood, add a little soda to the first warm water. Plates, Dishes, &c.—Remove all scraps from the plates; place them in hot water, rub each thoroughly with a dish cloth. Then rinse in clean warm water, dip into cold water and place them to drain. It is not necessary to dry them with a cloth.TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES. 37 Crystal.—Wash in lukewarm water; dip into cold water; drain; dry with a linen cloth, then polish with a dry linen towel or chamois leather. Clean Water Bottles by putting tea leaves, fine ashes or potato parings into them with luke-warm water. Shake well, empty, rinse with cold water, dry and polish. V.—TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES. Old Potatoes cooked in their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Old Potatoes cooked without their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. With a small- pointed knife (a potato knife costs about 4d.) pare the skin very thin, as the best part is next the skin; cut out the eyes, taking care not to take a slice of potato with them. Place the potatoes in cold water as they are pared, to preserve the colour. New Potatoes.—Wash well in cold water; rub with a rough towel to remove the skin; place in cold water till required. Cabbage, Cauliflower, and Lettuce.—Re- move the coarse outer leaves. To remove earth and insects, place the vegetables in plenty of cold water, with about a desert spoonful of salt to a quart of water, for about half an hour. Carrots.—YYash and brush well in cold water; scrape them downwards (towards the narrow end)' If carrots are to be served as a vegetable, cut each into two or three pieces; if they are to be used for soups, cut into small square pieces; if they are to be fried, cut into slices. Put the cut-up pieces into cold water till required. If they are to be fried, dry each piece carefully.38 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—ROASTING. Turnips.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Pare thickly, so far as a line a little in from the skin. The part next the skin is stringy, indigestible, and bitter. Cut up in the way directed for carrots, and lay in water till required. Onions.—Skin. Before onions are cooked, they must be “ prepared ” in the following way, to make them digestible :—Place them in a basin, cover them with boiling water, and add a piece of washing soda, the size of a pea. In about a quarter of an hour the water will become quite green. Pour this away. If the onions are to be used for soup, cut them in four, downwards, and then into small pieces; if they are to be fried, cut them into thin slices, and dry them well. French Beans.—Remove the strings from each side; cut each bean slanting into two or three pieces. Place in water till required. Spinach.—Wash well in cold water. Double each leaf together, and tear off the stalk with its continua- tion down the back of each leaf. VI.—GENERAL DIRECTIONS. Roasting. Meat for roasting should be kept hanging till the fibre becomes tender. The length of time required depends on the state of the weather and the season, ranging from a few days, or, in summer even a few hours, to three or four weeks in a dry cold winter. In frosty weather the meat must be brought into the kitchen for a few hours, before using it, to soften it. To ascertain the length of time required for roasting, weigh the meat and allow in roasting one quarter of an hour to each pound and one quarter of an hourGENERAL DIRECTIONS—ROASTING. 39 over. If, however, the piece of meat is very thick, allow half an hour over. Young and white meat (veal, lamb, pork) require twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. They are unwhole- some when underdone. Sweep up the hearth, and make up a large fire in a well-polished fireplace an hour before it is wanted, so as to have it bright and glowiig. Do not let the fire go down while the meat is roasting : add small pieces of coal or large cinders occasionally, so as to keep it up. Hang the meat by the small end to the hook of the jack. When there is no jack, the meat may be hooked to a skein of twisted worsted suspended from a hook projected from the mantel-shelf. Wind up the jack, or twist the worsted, so as to make it spin slowly. Place the dripping pan under the joint. If you have a meat screen see that it is bright (so as to throw back the heat upon the joint), and place it before the fire. Meat should be placed for the first ten minutes as near the fire as can be done without scorching, as the great heat hardens the outside, and keeps in the juices. Baste it as soon as the fat melts. Basting prevents the meat becoming dry and scorched. Then withdraw the meat 15 or 18 inches from the fire, and baste it frequently whilst cooking with the dripping produced by the melting of the fat. A lean piece of meat should be basted with hot dripping melted for the purpose. The meat may be dredged with flour a quarter of an hour before it is quite ready, to make it browner and to thicken the gravy a little. When it is placed on a dish (called in Scotland an ashet), sprinkle it with a little salt. Be- fore making sauce of the brown gravy, pour away the dnpping from the dripping pan (keep this dripping for other purposes),add a little boiling water to the browned40 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BROILING. gravy left in the pan, mix well, add a little salt, and pour round the roast. Roasting in the Oven.—This is usually called baking meat. Place the meat in a baking tin in a very hot part of the oven for five minutes to harden the outside and keep in the juice. Baste it as soon as the fat melts; then remove it to a cooler part; place beside it a cup or basin of hot water to keep the air of the oven moist without cooling it. Baste the meat frequently. For the length of time required, see preceding directions. All ovens in which meat is cooked should be properly ventilated in order to allow the escape of an injurious vapour produced by meat when cooked in a close oven. Meat roasted in the oven is not considered so digestible as when roasted before the fire. Roasting in the Pan.—Melt and heat i oz. of dripping in an iron pan.1 Brown all sides of the meat in this, so as to harden the outside and keep in the juices. Then draw the pan aside, and let the meat cook slowly with the lid on, basting it constantly. For the length of time required, see preceding direc- tions. This way of roasting is especially suitable for small pieces of meat, and is economical because of the small quantity of fuel required. Broiling. Broiling is cooking over a hot clear fire on a gridiron. Place a thoroughly clean gridiron over the fire; let it become quite hot, as the hot metal will help to harden the outside of the meat, and so keep in the juices ; rub the gridiron with suet to prevent the meat sticking to it. Place the meat on the hot gridiron, turn it 1 Tinning is apt to melt with the great heat and small amount of moisture.4i GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BOILING. continually, so as to let the inside of the meat cook slowly and so remain tender. Be-careful to put the fork into the fat or skin. If you pierce the lean, you will allow the juices to escape. If tongs are used, do not squeeze the meat. The length of time required depends chiefly on the thickness of the meat to be cooked. A separate gridiron should, if possible, be kept for fish. When the top of the fire cannot be used (as in close ranges), suspend a hanging gridiron in front of the fire with the meat between the two halves of the gridiron, which must be turned with the meat. Steaming. In steaming, the food to be cooked is placed in a tin or earthenware vessel, covered with a tight cover or greased paper.1 The vessel is placed in a pan of boiling water, which comes half way up its side. If the water boils away, more boiling water must be added. Puddings, etc., when steamed, do not require to have so much liquid in them as when baked. The dry air of the oven dries them ; steaming keeps them moist. Boiling. Meat covered with water and cooked in it is said to be boiled, but it must not be supposed that the water should be kept at boiling point. Plunge the meat into boiling water (2120 Fahr.), enough to cover it. This hardens the outside, and keeps in the juices. After the water (cooled by the meat) again comes to the boil, let it remain boiling for about five minutes, then skim carefully, and add cold water, or move the pot to a less hot place, till the water simmers instead of boils (about 170° Fahr.). Draw the pot aside, keep 1 No printed paper should be used in cooking.42 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—STEWING. it at this heat till the meat is cooked, allowing a quarter of an hour to each pound, counting from the time the water begins to boil, and one quarter of an hour over. If it is a large piece of meat, allow half an hour over. Add a little salt when the meat is nearly ready. For salt meat or pork allow twenty minutes to each pound. Salt meat is put on with cold water. For fish allow ten minutes to the pound, and, when thick, ten minutes over. Green vegetables should be boiled briskly and without a lid on the pan : this helps to preserve the colour. Stewing. In stewing juicy meats the outside should be hardened by browning (see page 46) in order to keep in the juices. The meat is then placed in a stewpan and a small quantity of hot water or stock poured round it. I his is slowly warmed and then allowed to simmer slowly, and must on no account be allowed to boil. Stewing chiefly differs from boiling in the quantity of water used, and in the length of time of cooking. The juice that is drawn out of the meat is served in the gravy. Coarse pieces of meat may be made tender by careful and long stewing, but they should not be browned. If very tough, they may be dipped in vinegar to soften the fibre. Gristly pieces should be put on with cold water and simmered till tender, but not allowed to boil fast. Another and a good way of stewing is to put the stew in a stone jar with a closely fitting lid, or cover of greased paper. The jar is placed on the hob, or in a slow oven, or in a sauce pan with water kept boilinar round it.43 GENERAL DIRECTIONS FRYING. Frying. Frying is cooking in hot fat. Tne ordinary but wrong way of frying is to use a shallow frying pan and a small quantity of fat. This is extravagant and un- wholesome. Put into a stew-pan enough fat to cover the article to be cooked. Make the fat hot. It is at the proper heat when it is quite still and a slight vapour rises from it; do not wait till it smokes, for then it will burn. The fat may also be tested by putting into it a small piece of crumb of bread ; if it becomes quickly a golden colour, the fat is at the right heat. Prepare the pieces to be cooked by covering them with a coating of egg and bread crumbs, or flour and milk, or flour and water. This covering hardens with heat, and makes a case to hold in the juices and also prevents the fat getting in and making the meat greasy. Do not have the pieces thicker than about an inch, unless the materials have been previously cooked. Put them into the hot fat, but not many at a time, as the fat would be too much cooled. When they become a golden colour remove them ; plac? them for a few seconds on kitchen paper near the fire to absorb the fat, and then serve.1 Oil, butter, lard, and dripping, or clarified tat, are used for frying. Oil and butter are very expensive, and should only be used in high class cookery ; lard is apt to make what is fried in it greasy; dripping or clarified fat is the most suitable for use in an ordinary kitchen. Dry Frying.—In dry frying a very small quantity of fat is used, and it is usually done in a frying pan ; i A frying basket made of wire, and fitting the stew-pan, is very convenient. The pieces are laid in the basket and it is placed in the hot fat till they are cooked.44 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BAKING. the meat or vegetables should be frequently turned to prevent hardening. Bacon does not require fat at all as its own melting fat is sufficient. Chopped vege- tables, such as cabbages and potatoes mixed (the bubble without the squeak), are excellent food, with a little dripping, and may be done in a frying-pan. Cold pudding may be cut in slices and fried in this way. Baking. Baking is cooking by means of heated air in a confined space called an oven. Bread, cakes, and pastry are usually cooked in this way. As a general rule, anything containing starchy materials, as flour, arrowroot, etc., should, if not previously boiled, be first placed in a hot part of the oven to burst the starchy grains and enable them to mix thoroughly with the surrounding liquid; they should then be removed to a cooler part, to cook slowly without scorching. If pastry is put at first into a cool part of the oven, the fat melts; but as the starch grains of the flour are not burst, they cannot absorb the fat, which runs out and makes the paste greasy and heavy. The proper management of an oven must be the result of experience, as it is impossible to give exact rules. A large brick oven gives the most steady heat. Iron ovens become easily overheated, and small iron ones are apt to scorch what is cooked in them unless carefully regulated. Therefore, bread should be divided into smaller loaves when baked in a small oven, to prevent the outside being browned while the inside is still uncooked. To test an oven, put into it a piece of stale crumb of bread; if in five minutes it is a golden colour, the oven is hot enough for cooking pastry or bread; if, on the contrary, the bread becomes dry and only slightlyGENERAL DIRECTIONS—BAKING. 45 coloured, the oven is of a moderate heat, and suitable for browning puddings, etc. Another test is to put a piece of kitchen or writing paper into the oven ; if it curls up in about a minute, the oven is hot enough for baking. Where there is no oven, puddings may be browned before the fire. Meat, puddings, and even pastry, may be cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire. Dutch Oven. Scones, oat-cakes, etc., may be cooked on a girdle (much used in Scotland) instead of in an oven. Girdle.46 SOUPS. Explanation of various terms :— JA\b™k fl°ur is.l° mif veT gradually a small quantity of cold liquid, stirring it until it is smooth. H y a mixture is to add milk or egg to make it hold 1° brown meat, etc. , is to place it in a small quantity of hot rat, and not turn it until the part is brown. I o burst rice is to put it on in cold water and bring it to the boil. I his bursts the grains of starch. To clean currants is to rub them (the stalks being previously picked) in a damp cloth till clean, or to sprinkle a little flour ovei them and rub them in a dry rough cloth. To blanch is to cover with cold water and bring to the boil, bkim well, and pour off the water. To sweatis to toss vegetables in melted fat till the fat is absorbed. This is done to supply fat in which they are deficient. I o parboil is to boil anything until half cooked. lo scald vegetables, etc., is to pour boiling water over them for a few minutes, and then throw away the water. To scald milk is to bring it almost, but not quite, to the boil. To shred suet is to cut it with a sharp knife so thinly as to be almost scraping; the suet should be so thin as to curl up. To wash rice, barley, etc., is to pour cold water over them, stir and pour off the water, repeating this till the water poured off is quite clear. VII.—SOUPS. Although many of the following soups can be made with water, they will be richer and more nourishing if, instead of water, they are made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled, liquor from the stockpot, stock made with a few cooked or uncooked bones, or gravy left over from stews. The flavour of soup may be inexpensively varied by any of the following herbs, either used separately or one sprig of several of them may be tied together in a small bunch and put in the soup and removed before serving: sorrel, parsley,47 SOUPS. sage, mint, thyme, marjoram, and bay leaf.1 Celery seed is also a pleasant flavouring and inexpensive. About half a teaspoonful may be used, tied loosely in a piece of muslin, and removed before serving. Stockpot.—Put into a goblet or stockpot all odd scraps of meat, cooked and uncooked, which cannot be used otherwise ; pieces of skin ; bones (chopped into small pieces), cooked or uncooked. Cover with plenty of water, simmer slowly but steadily beside the fire. This should furnish material for sauces and soup; pieces of bread, cold vegetables, remains of sauces, &c., should be used up to thicken and flavour it. In winter the stockpot should be entirely cleared out twice a week, and in summer daily. Pan Kail.—Required: t oz. barley; % turnip; 1 leek; *4 small cabbage; carrot; ]/2 oz. dripping; 3 pints water; ]/z teaspoonful salt; ^ teaspoonful pepper; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Cleanse the vegetables as directed at page 37. Wash the barley in several waters and soak it for two hours, then put it into the 1 >4 quart of cold water with the dripping, pepper and salt. While this is coming to the boil, chop the cabbage and leek together, put them into a bowl and pour boiling water over them ; cover the bowl, and let them stand ten minutes. This draws out the indigestible part of the green vegetables. Pour away this water; chop the turnip and half of the piece of carrot. As soon as the water with the barley in it comes quite to the boil, skim it carefully, add all the chopped vegetables gradually and bring again to the boil. Let the whole boil slowly for about 1 This is the laurus nobilis or sweet bay, sometimes called the sweet scented laurel. It must not be confused with the cerasus laurocerasus, called the common bay or cherry laurel, which has the flavour ot bitter almonds, and is, when used in excess, very hurtful.48 SOUPS. two hours, being careful not to let it go off the boil. When it is about half cooked, grate the other half of the piece of carrot; add this and the sugar. If the kail is too thick, and you wish to add water, be sure that the water added is boiling. Scotch Broth.—Required: r lb. runner of beef (or neck of mutton); i turnip cut in dice; i carrot cut in dice; x carrot grated; 2 leeks fsliced); 1 oz barley ; pepper and salt; cold water. Wipe the meat, put it into a pan with sufficient cold water to cover it; add the salt, and bring it to the boil; slum it, add the pepper, the vegetables, and the barley (blanched). Simmer slowly for 3 or 4 hours. Half an hour before dishing add the grated carrot. When ready lift the meat out and place it on a hot ashet, pour a little of the liquor over it. Dish the broth in a hot tureen or bowl. Potato Soup.—Required: 1 lb. potatoes; 1 medium-sized onion ; 1 stick celery, or teaspoon- ful celery seed tied in muslin; oz. dripping; 1 pint water; pepper and salt; oz. tapioca; 1 gill milk. Wash and peel the potatoes, and cut them in slices. Skin and scald the onion, and cut it in rings. Wash and scrape the celery, and cut it in pieces. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put the vegetables in the pan, and toss them in the melted dripping till they have absorbed it. Add the water and salt, and bring to the boil. Add the pepper, then allow to simmer for about one hour, until the vegetables are soft. Stir frequently while it is cooking, to prevent burning. When ready rub through a colander, or with a fork till smooth. Rinse the pan and reheat the soup. Add now the tapioca (which should be already crushed, washed, and soaked for half an hour in the milk), andSOUPS. 49 stir till it boils and clears. Serve in a hot tureen, and serve with it dice of bread, fried or toasted. Lentil Soup .—Required: y2 lb. lentils (Egyptian); 14 carrot; turnip; 1 stick celery; 1 onion; 1 oz. dripping ; 1 quart water; pepper and salt; l/2 pint milk Wash the lentils, and soak them overnight in the quart of water. Prepare the other vegetables, and cut them in slices; drain the water from the lentils, reserving it. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the lentils and other vegetables, and sweat them. Pour on the water in which the lentils were soaked, add the salt and pepper, and bring to the boil. Simmer the soup till the vegetables are cooked, stirring frequently whilst cooking; this will take three or four hours. When cooked, pass the soup through a colander, or bruise with fork. Add the milk and reheat, then serve with fried or toasted bread. Note.— Instead of water, meat or ham boilings can be used; and instead of celery, % teaspoonful of celery seed. Pea Soup.—Prepared in the same way as Lentil Soup. Haricot Bean Soup.—Prepared in the same way as Lentil or Pea Soups, but only white vegetables, such as onion or celery, should be used. Milk Soup.—Required: 1 lb. potatoes; 1 oz. crushed sago ; 2 onions ; 1 pint milk ; 1 quart water ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Wash, pare, slice, and parboil the potatoes; pour away the water; skin and scald the onions; chop them. Place the potatoes, onions, pepper and salt in the quart of cold water; bring to the boil, and boil till quite soft (about half an hour). Crush the potatoes and onions with a fork or spoon till smooth ; add the5° SOUPS. milk and the crushed sago, stir constantly till it boils then boil for about ten minutes—that is, till the sago is quite clear and cooked. This soup may be made richer by adding i oz. of butter or dripping to the quart of cold water; also by putting a yolk of an egg well beaten in the tureen, and mixing the cooked soup slowly with it. The soup must be off the boil, or the egg will curdle. Cabbage Soup. —Required: i good-sized cabbage; i shalot; i oz. butter; i y2 pints boiling water; i tea- spoonfui salt; % teaspoonful pepper; i tablespoonful crushed tapioca; i pint milk ; i tablespoonful chopped parsley. Wash the cabbage thoroughly, shred it finely, plunge it into boiling water, blanch for five minutes, strain the cabbage. Sweat the cabbage and the shalot (thinly sliced) in the butter, add "the boiling water and the seasoning, and boil for 15 minutes. Then add the tapioca (which should be already crushed, washed, and soaked in the milk for half an hour), and boil till tapioca is clear, stirring all the time. Dish in hot tureen. Onion Soup.—Required: 2 onions ; 2 oz. dry grated cheese; r ^ oz. flour ; 2 oz. dripping; 3 pints cold water; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Skin and scald the onions; let them become cold and quite dry. Cut into thin slices and dry them ; fry in the dripping till a pale yellow colour; then add the flour, and with a spoon stir till the flour is quite brown (but not burnt). Remove the pan from the fire, and allow the contents to cool. Pour in the water gradu- ally, stirring constantly. Put the pan on the fire again; when it boils add the cheese, pepper, and salt, and sim- mer very gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring con- tinually. Serve small squares of dry toast separately.SOUPS. 51 If a more delicate soup is wanted, pass it through a colander when ready, to keep back the pieces of onion. Brown Vegetable Soup.—Required: a small carrot; 1 small turnip ; 1 small onion ; 1 oz. oatmeal; i]/2 oz. dripping ; 3 pints cold water; ^ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Cleanse the carrot and turnip ; skin and scald the onion. Chop them all very small and dry them with a cloth. Brown the vegetables to a golden colour with the dripping in a stew pan ; put in the oatmeal, stirring till it also is a golden colour. Draw the pan to one side to allow the contents to cool a little. Pour in the cold water gradually, stirring till the whole is quite smooth. Bring to the boil, and boil slowly for at least one hour. Add the pepper and salt a quarter of an hour before serving. Any other vegetables .may be used instead of the above. Flour may be used instead of oatmeal. Bread Soup.—Required: % lb. scraps of bread; 1 oz. dry grated cheese ; 1 oz. dripping ; 3 pints cold water; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper; 1 pinch grated nutmeg. Put the bread in the cold water with the dripping, salt, and pepper; bring slowly to the boil and simmer gently for one and a half hours. Crush the bread smooth. Add the grated cheese, boil five minutes longer, pour the soup into the tureen, add the grated nutmeg and serve hot. This soup may be made richer by using a yolk of an egg, as in milk soup, page 50. Vegetable Soup.—Required: Piece of carrot; piece of turnip; 1 leek; stick of celery; 1 oz. drip- ping ; 1 pint boiling water; pepper and salt; 1 oz. flour ; y2 pint milk.SOUPS. 52 I repare all the vegetables, and shred down into strips one inch long. Melt the dripping, and sweat the vegetables in it, then add the boiling water, pepper and salt, and boil briskly without the lid on the pan till the vegetables are cooked. Allow about 40 minutes for young vegetables, and for old vegetables from i to 1 ]/2 hours. Break the flour with the milk, add it to the soup, and stir till it boils, then cook for 5 to 7 minutes. Note /.—Boiling water is used to preserve the colour, and flavour of the vegetables. The lid is kept off the pan for the same reason. . Note II. A Soup Maigre is prepared in the same way, leav- ing out the flour and milk. Note ///.—Any other vegetables in season may be used instead of those mentioned. The soups may be made richer by putting a well-beaten yolk of egg in the tureen, and gradually stirring the soup in with it. Fish Stock.—Required: 2d. worth of fish trim- mings ; 1 onion ; stick of celery ; 6 white peppercorns ; 1 blade of mace ; salt; 1 quart cold water. Thoroughly cleanse the trimmings and put them into a saucepan with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the boil and skim thoroughly. Add the celery, onion, peppercorns, and mace, and allow all to simmer for 40 minutes, then strain. This stock can be used either for fish soups or sauces. Note /.—If better stock is wished, a haddock or a cod’s head can be used instead of trimmings. Note II.—If fish stock is cooked too long, a very bitter flavour is extracted from the bones. Fish Soup.—Required: 1 quart fish stock ; 1 y2 oz. flour; y2 pint milk; 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley. Heat the stock. Break the flour with the milk, and add it to the stock. Stir till it boils, then cook for 10 minutes, adding the chopped parsley at the last.53 SOUPS. Ox-cheek Soup.—Required: i ox cheek; 2 car- rots; 2 turnips; 2 onions; a small bunch of savoury herbs or }( teaspoonful celery seed; 1 oz. flour ; 1 oz. dripping; 5 quarts hot water; 1 tablespoonful vinegar; 1 teaspoonful browning; 1 dessert spoonful brown sugar. Soak the cheek all night in salt and cold water, to cleanse it; wash thoroughly in warm water. Remove the soft bones from the nostrils. Cleanse and prepare the carrot and turnips; cut them into small pieces; skin, scald, and slice the onions. Dry all the pieces; brown them slightly with the dripping; pour away the dripping. Place the ox-cheek and the vegetables in a large saucepan with the hot water, flavouring, vinegar, and browning. Bring slowly to the boil, skim care- fully, then simmer for about five hours. Break the flour with cold water. An hour before the soup is ready, draw the pan aside, cool a little, and stir in the flour; then finish the cooking, stirring occasionally, as the flour is apt to stick to the pan. Serve the cheek separately, with a little of the soup as gravy. Two oz. semolina or crushed tapioca may be used instead of the flour. Sheep’s Head Broth.—Required: 1 sheep’s head; 1 turnip cut in dice; 1 carrot cut in dice; 1 carrot grated; 2 or 3 leeks; 2 oz. barley or rice; dessertspoonful chopped parsley. To Prepare the Head.—Split the head in two; remove the brains, and soak them in cold water and vinegar to whiten them. Soak the head in tepid water and salt for half an hour. Scrape the small bones from the nostrils; cleanse the head thoroughly, then blanch and rinse it. To Make the Soup.—Put the head (after blanching) into a large pan and cover it with 3 or 4 quarts of54 SOUPS. water. Bring it to the boil, skim well, and add the carrot and turnip in dice, the leeks in small pieces, and the barley blanched. Season it well with pepper and salt, and simmer gently 3 or 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Half an hour before serving add the grated carrot. (When the head is tender lift it out.) At the last, add the parsley, just bring the soup to the boil, and then serve it in a hot tureen. For method of serving the head see page 66. Kidney Soup.—Required: 1 ox kidney; 2 oz. dripping, 2 oz. flour; 1 quart stock; 1 quart water; Yz turnip; 1 carrot; 1 onion; 1 bunch of herbs (com- prising a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley, and 1 bayleaf); 1 blade of mace; y2 teaspoonful black peppercorns; salt. Remove the skin, wash and dry the kidney, cut it in small pieces, keeping back all the core. Skin and scald the onion, dry and cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping smoking hot in a large deep pan ; toss the kidney lightly in the flour, and fry to a good brown colour. Lift the pieces out, and fry the onion and remaining flour till well browned. Put back the pieces of kidney, add the stock, water, and salt, bring slowly to the boil, and skim carefully. Prepare the carrot and turnip, cut them in blocks, add to the soup with the herbs and the peppercorns, simmer for 4 or 5 hours. Strain through a sieve, and when cold remove all fat, Return the soup to the pan, rinse the pieces of kidney, and add them to the soup. When hot serve in tureen. Note.—y2 ox kidney, or 3 sheep’s kidneys make 1 quart of soup. Ox-tail Soup is made in the same way, but the tail must be jointed, freed from superfluous fat, blanched and dried before frying. Serve pieces of tail and rounds of cooked carrot in the soup.55 SOUPS. Hotch-Potch.—Required: i lb. neck of mutton; 1 pint chopped young carrots, turnips, and cauliflower; y2 lettuce ; ^ pint green peas ; ]/? pint broad beans ; 2 onions (previously parboiled); 2 quarts water; 1 teaspoonful salt ; teaspoonful pepper ; 2 teaspoon- fuls sugar. Put the meat and the salt on with cold water. When it comes to the boil skim it carefully. Let the cauli- flower and lettuce lie in salt and water for half an hour; break the cauliflower up into little sprigs, and chop the lettuce; shell the peas; shell and skin the beans; pare the turnips, scrape the carrots ; chop them small with the onions; put all the vegetables, except one- half pint of peas, into the boiling liquor ; boil slowly three or four hours, according to the age of the vegetables. Young vegetables require less boiling than old ones. When the soup is half made, add the rest of the peas and the sugar. When ready, remove the mutton and serve. Serve the mutton separately. Hotch-Potch should he quite thick. If wished, neatly trimmed chops may be added to the soup when it is half cooked, and served in it. Curry Soup.—Required: y lb. rice; 2 small onions or 1 large apple ; ^ teaspoonful curry pow- der; y teaspoonful sugar; 1 oz. dripping; 3 pints cold water ; % teaspoonful salt. Skin, scald, and chop the onion; pare, quarter, core and chop the apple; wash the rice. Melt the dripping in a stew pan ; brown the onion and apple in it. Draw the pan to the side of the fire ; break the curry powder with a little cold water ; add it, the rice and water, to the pan, stir well. Place on the fire and boil with the lid on till the rice and onion are thoroughly cooked, about three-quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally.SOUPS. 56 The liquor fish has been boiled in may be used instead of water. Economical Brown Soup .—Required: about 2 lbs. roast beef bones; i small carrot; i small turnip; i small onion; i dessert spoonful flour or com flour; i oz. dripping ; 2 quarts cold water ; 1 tablespoonful ketchup; # teaspoonful browning; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Cleanse, prepare, and slice the vegetables (see page 37); break the bones into several pieces. Brown the vegetables with the dripping in a saucepan; draw it to the side of the fire, add the bones, water and seasoning; simmer gently for 3 or 4 hours, skimming carefully. Half an hour before it is ready, break the flour with a little cold water, and stir it carefully into the soup. When ready, remove the bones and vegetables, serve the soup. The bones may be used again in the stockpot; the vegetables may be used for vegetable soup, or for thickening any soup. Richer Brown Soup.—Prepare and cook as in last recipe; but, instead of roast beef bones, use 1 lb. leg of beef; cut it into two or three pieces, and brown it with the vegetables. Pot-au-Feu.—Required: 2 lbs. ribs of beef; 1 small cabbage ; 1 ordinary sized carrot; 2 small white turnips; 1 leek or onion ; 4 large potatoes; 1 bay leaf; y teaspoonful celery seeds tied in a piece of muslin; 4 pints hot water; y2 oz. salt; 6 pepper corns. Put the beef into a saucepan and cover with the hot water, add the salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan and put it on the side of the fire, that it may come to the boil very slowly. When boiling, skim with an iron spoon, cover, and simmer very slowly for 1 y2 hours. Prepare the vegetables (see pages 37, 38). Scald the cabbage, add it, theSOUPS. 57 carrots, bay leaf and celery seed ; simmer for half an hour. Then add the leek, turnips, and potatoes, and allow the whole to simmer for another hour. If the meat cooks fast, it will fall to pieces and have no taste. Remove the celery seed and the pepper- corns ; arrange the meat on a large dish ; place all the vegetables round the meat; pour a large cupful of the broth into the dish, and serve hot. Remove the fat from the broth, break some dry rusks in a soup tureen, and pour the boiling broth over them. Keep the meat hot while the soup is served. The potatoes can be made more digestible by par boiling them, and adding them later. To keep them from breaking, put them on the top of the meat and other vegetables, and, before dishing the meat, lift them off carefully with a spoon. This is a very economical dish when vegetables are cheap, and, as it must be cooked very slowly, it requires little fuel. In France large earthenware saucepans are used for the pot-au-feu. Stock.—Required: i lb. leg of beef (lean) ; i small carrot; i small turnip; i very small onion; i sprig parsley; i small bay leaf; i clove ; 3 or 4 pepper corns ; 3 pints cold water; teaspoonful salt. Prepare the vegetables (see page 37); cut them into thick slices; cut the meat into small pieces ; put the vegetables and meat into a saucepan with the parsley, bay leaf, prepared onion, salt and cold water. Cover the saucepan and allow the water to come slowly to the boil; skim well; add the pepper and the clove, and simmer very gently for four hours. Lay a clean cloth in a colander; strain the stock through it into a basin. Let it get cold, and remove all the fat. Clear Soup.—Required: 1 pint of stock ; the white and shell of 1 egg.58 SOUPS. Remove all fat very carefully from the stock; put the stock into an enamelled pan with the white of egg and the shell; whisk all together till the stock looks frothy on the surface, then stir over a slow fire till it steams. Leave off stirring, and allow the soup to boil thoroughly for about five minutes; draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for about fifteen minutes to allow the scum to rise and curdle. Lay a clean cloth in a colander; strain the soup thiough it into a basin. Cut neatly small pieces of vegetables ; boil them till tender; add to the strained soup , add also a very small piece of loaf sugar, as it makes the soup sparkle. Heat the soup, and serve. VIII.—FISH. To Fry Fish.—(See general directions for frying, Page 43-)—Clean and dry the fish well, cut it into neat pieces, and prepare them for frying in one of the following ways :— ist. Break flour with enough milk to make it a thick batter; dip each piece of fish into this, and fry. 2nd. Brush the pieces over with milk ; toss them in flour in a sheet of kitchen paper; shake off the loose flour; fry. 3rd. Dip the pieces into batter No. 1 (as above); toss them in stale bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper ; shake off the loose crumbs ; fry. 4th. Break an egg on a plate ; beat it up slightly; dip the pieces in this; toss them in stale bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper; shake off the loose crumbs ; fry. Instead of bread crumbs prepared from the crumb of bread alone, crusts or any stale bread may be used, which are dried in the oven (not allowed to brown), pounded and kept in tightly corked bottles for use.59 FISH. Pounded rusks or water biscuits may be used instead of bread crumbs. Filleted Fried Fish.—A thick fish, such as haddock, should be filleted before frying. 1 his is done by cutting the flesh off at the back, beginning at the head, using a sharp knife. The bones should be used for soup or sauce. Fried Herrings.—Required: 2 herrings; 1 oz. oatmeal ; 1 oz. dripping. Cleanse and dry the herrings ; cut off their fins ; toss the herrings with the oatmeal in a sheet of kitchen paper till as much as possible has stuck to them. Heat the dripping in a frying pan ; fry the herrings for about five minutes. Boiled Fish.—Boil according to general directions given at page 41. Serve with melted butter, parsley sauce, or egg sauce. Boiled Salt Fish.—Soak the fish all night in cold water; cut it in neat pieces ; place them in a pan with plenty of cold water. Bring to the boil, and simmer for from 20 minutes to half-an-hour. Serve with egg sauce. Fish Cakes.—These may be made of any pieces of fish, cooked or uncooked. 1st Way—Required: l/z lb. cold fish; ^2 lb. cold mashed potatoes; ]/z oz. dripping; about 1 table- spoonful of milk: teaspoonful salt; y^ teaspoonful pepper. Remove the skin and the bones carefully from the fish ; break it into small pieces; mix thoroughly with the potatoes, melted dripping, salt, pepper, and milk. Shape into neat small cakes upon a floured board, with a knife dipped in flour. Brush over with a little milk, and toss in flour in a sheet of kitchen paper ; shake off the loose flour; fry.FISH. 6o 2nd Way. Prepare as in first way, using bread crumbs, and ]/2 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley instead of potatoes. 3rd Way.—Prepare as in first way, using cold boiled rice instead of potatoes. In the above three ways, instead of brushing with milk and using flour, egg and bread crumb may be used. Fish Pudding.— Prepare the mixture according to first, second, or third way of making fish cakes. Instead of shaping into cakes and preparing for fry- mg, place the mixture in a well-greased pie dish. Place small pieces of dripping over the top, and brown in an oven or before the fire. Savoury Fish Piz.—Required: yz lb. cold boiled salt fish ; y lb. cold mashed potatoes ; 2 onions, pre- viously boiled; 11/. oz. dripping; y teaspoonful pepper. Break the fish into small pieces; mince the onion. Grease a small pie dish well; place a layer of fish at the bottom, then a layer of potatoes with onions sprinkled over; then fish, potatoes, and onions again. Place small pieces of dripping over the top, and brown in an oven or before the fire. Baked Fish.—Required: a flat fish; 1 y2 oz. drip- ping or butter ; 1 dessert spoonful stale bread crumbs; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley ; 1 small onion boiled and chopped; y2 gill water; y2 teaspoonful vinegar; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Melt half of the dripping in a tin baking dish ; cut the fins off the fish ; clean it; place it in the dish and pour the water and vinegar over it. Mix the parsley, onion, salt, pepper, and bread crumbs ; sprinkle them over the fish ; place the dripping in small pieces over the fish; bake in an oven for from ten to twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fish.61 FISH. The dish is more delicate if lemon juice is used instead of vinegar. Stuffed and Baked Haddock.—Required: i haddock ; i oz. bread crumbs; x/2 oz. suet; x/2 tea- spoonful chopped parsley; pinch powdered herbs; pepper and salt; milk to bind ; brown crumbs; i tablespoonful dripping. Stuffing.—Prepare the crumbs, shred and chop the suet. Put crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, pepper and salt into a bowl. Mix these well and add enough milk to bind together. To Prepare the Fish.—Wash the haddock in cold water. Remove eyes, gills, scales, and the black skin from inside. Trim off the fins and tail. Rinse and dry the fish. Place the stuffing inside and sew up the opening. Truss with a skewer into the shape of the letter S. Melt the dripping in a Yorkshire tin. Lay in the fish and baste with the dripping. Sprinkle with brown crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, basting occasionally. Place on a hot ashet, removing skewer and thread. Garnish with parsley. This dish may be improved by using butter instead of dripping, and an egg instead of milk. Baked Herrings.—Required: 2 fresh herrings ; say 1 gill water; say 1 gill vinegar; 6 pepper corns; 1 blade mace ; ^ teaspoonful salt. Cleanse and dry the herrings ; cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Cut from the opening already made for cleaning down to the tail end. Lay them on their backs; remove the bones; sprinkle the salt over them ; roll them up, beginning at the tail end. Place them in a small pie dish with the pepper corns and mace; pour over them enough vinegar and water to cover them; bake in the oven for three quarters of an hour.FISH. 62 Stewed Herrings.—Prepare in the same way as in the last recipe, but instead of baking in a pie dish stew slowly in a pan for half an hou-r. Stewed Plaice.—Required: i plaice (filleted); oz. butter; y oz. flour; i gill fish stock (see page 52); 1 gill milk; pepper and salt. Make a white sauce with the butter, flour, fish stock, and milk (see page 128). Wipe the fish and cut it into neat square pieces. Place it in the sauce and season well with pepper and salt. Simmer very gently from ro to 15 minutes. Carefully lift the fish on to a hot ashet and pour the sauce over. Garnish with parsley. Any other white fish may be stewed in the same way. Broiled Mackerel.—Required: 1 mackerel; y2 oz. dripping or butter; 4 sprigs of parsley ; 1 pinch of salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Open the fish by cutting it down the back. Wash it well in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Rub a hot girdiron with a greased paper and lay the fish on it over a clear fire; when brown on one side turn over on the other. Wash the parsley in cold water; pick it off the stalks ; dry it with a cloth ; chop finely; mix with the butter on a plate, using a knife; add to it the salt and pepper. Put the fish on a hot plate, and spread the butter on the fish. Any other fish may be cooked in the same way with or without the parsley and butter. Finnon Haddocks.—Required: 1 small finnon haddock; y2 oz. butter; y2 pint milk ; % teaspoonful flour. Wipe the haddock with a damp cloth; cut it into four pieces ; roll the pieces in the flour; place them in a stew pan with the milk and the butter. Bring very slowly to the boil and simmer slowly for aboutMEAT—ROASTING. 63 five minutes. Serve on a very hot plate with the sauce round it. Crappit Heads.—Required: 3 haddock heads or a cod’s head ; 2 haddock roes ; 2 haddock livers ; % lb. oatmeal; 1 dessert spoonful toasted bread crumbs or raspings; 1 dessert spoonful chopped parsley; 2 onions (parboiled and chopped); y2 oz. dripping; about a teacupful cold water or milk; 1 teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Lay the oatmeal in a dish before the fire, or in the oven, and stir occasionally until it is quite dry and slightly browned. Cleanse the heads and wipe them dry ; remove the eyes from the outside so as not to make a hole through ; make a stuffing of the oatmeal, roes, livers, parsley, onions, pepper, and salt. Mix these thoroughly into a stiff paste with the cold water or milk ; stuff into the heads and sew them up. Brush them over with a half ounce melted dripping; strew upon them bread crumbs or raspings. Bake in the oven or before the fire for one to one and a half hours. If prefeired, the heads may be boiled for three quarters of an hour; two ounces dripping may be used instead of the livers; and stale bread crumbs instead of oatmeal. IX.—ROASTING. Roast Beef.—Cook according to general direc- tions, page 38. Garnish with grated horse radish Serve Yorkshire pudding with the roast. Rolled Ribs of Beef.—With a sharp-pointed knife remove the bones (using them for stock 01 gravy). . Roll the beel, beginning at the thin end. .fasten it with string and skewers. Cook according to general directions at page 38. Remove the string and skewers before serving. cMEAT—ROASTING. 64 Roast Mutton.—Cook according to rules given at page 38. Roast Pork.—Score the skin with a knife; cook according to rules given at page 38. Serve with apple or onion sauce. Roast Heart.—Required: 1 ox heart; y lb. bread crumbs; 2 oz. dripping or suet; 2 tablespoonfuls milk; 2 onions (previously boiled); teaspoonful powdered sage ; y2 teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Lay the heart to soak in cold water and salt to draw out the blood. Clean it well, taking care to remove all the clots of blood. Cut off all the loose flaps and the coarse fat; dry thoroughly. Put the bread crumbs and dripping into a basin, rub thoroughly together. Chop the onions finely, add them, the sage, pepper, salt, and milk. Mix well; stuff the heart with this mixture and sew it up. Roast according to general directions, and serve very hot. Instead of sage and onions, minced parsley and mixed herbs may be used. A Sheep’s Heart may be cooked in the same way. As it is small, it should be roasted either in the oven or in a pan. Savoury Roast.— Required: 1 lb. stewing steak thinly cut in one slice; 3 tablespoonfuls stale bread crumbs; 1 small onion (parboiled) ; y2 teaspoonful powdered sage; 2x/2 oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful milk ; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Rub y2 oz. dripping finely into the bread crumbs; chop the onion small; add it to the bread crumbs with the sage, salt, and pepper. Stir in the milk to bind the mixture ; roll this into the meat; fasten the roll with string. Melt the 2 oz. dripping ; roast the roll in the oven or in a pan, basting with the melted dripping. Roast Fowl.—Required: a young fowl, 2 oz. dripping. For drawing and trussing a fowl, see pageMEAT—BROILING, BOILING. 65 84. Melt the dripping in the dripping-pan; hang the fowl before the fire, and baste constantly while roasting. Cook for from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Make the gravy as for other roasted meats (see page 39). Stock made from the giblets may be used instead of boiling water. Serve with fried sausages or bacon round it; and with bread sauce served in a separate dish. X. —BROILING. Beefsteak. Required: y2 lb. steak, 1 small pinch salt Have the steak newly cut from old-killed beef It should be about 1 inch thick. Cook for about ten to fifteen minutes, according to general directions (page 40). . When ready, sprinkle a pinch of salt over it. Serve immediately, and very hot. Mutton-steak may be cut from the leg. Chop. Required: 1 chop, 1 small pinch salt. Have the chop newly cut from old killed mutton; it should be from three quarters of an inch to an inch tuck. Cook for about ten to fifteen minutes, accord- ant (page 4o)’ When ready, S ve; hot ’ °f Sait OVer “• Serve XI. —BOILING. The liqiiid in which meat has been boiled should be used for soups and gravies. an^siir°f Mutton—Cut off the shank and use it for soup or gravy. pj0il according to general directions (page 41). Serve with piece! of boiled carrot and turnip placed round the leg and cover with caper sauce. g’ a Corned Beef.—Cook according to general direc tions. Serve with boiled greens carmt ™ 1 * arranged round the meat.66 MEAT—BOILING. has been cooked in as gravy. Norfolk or suet dumplings may be served with corned beef (see page 119)- . , A Ham.—It the ham is very salt and dry, soak in warm water for a day and a night; if not, twelve hours are sufficient. Put the ham into a large pan, cover it well with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and simmer gently till tender. A ham weighing 10 lbs. will take about four hours to cook. When ready, peel off the rind carefully, and dredge over with finely-sifted bread-crumbs, slightly browned previously in the oven or before tne fire. If the ham is wanted cold, place it, after the rind has been removed, in a large basin; cover it with the hot water it has been boiled in, removing the fat floating on the top. When cold, remove the ham and dredge it with the browned bread-crumbs. Boiled Fowl.—Required: 1 fowl; °z> butter; boiling water ; 1 teaspoonful salt. Butter a piece of kitchen paper, and fold the fowl in it. Put the fowl in a saucepan, and cover it well with boiling water; add the salt, and boil slow ly from an hour to an hour and a half, according to the age of the fowl. Remove the fowl from the saucepan without pricking it with a fork; take it out of the paper, and allow it to stand a few minutes till the steam has escaped; place it on a dish, and cover with egg sauce. Serve with fried sausages or bacon round it Dressed Sheep’s Head (Scotch Method). Take the sheep’s head from the broth (see page 53), and place it on a baking-sheet. Sprinkle it with brown crumbs, place some pieces of dripping on the top, and brown it in the oven. Dish it on a bed of mince prepared from cooked heart and liver. Garnish with “brain cakes” and fried liver.MEAT-BOILING. 67 The tongue may be sliced and used as a garnish or minced with the other parts. Dressed Lamb’s Head is prepared in the same way and is a more delicate dish. Mince.—Required: 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of the chopped heart and liver, liquor to moisten, seasoning. Mix these together and heat in a pan. Dish on ashet. Brain Cakes.—Required: Sheep’s brains; 2 table- spoonfuls bread crumbs; 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley ; pepper ; salt; 1 tablespoonful dripping. After soaking put the brains in boiling salted water, boil gently for about 10 minutes. Strain and chop the brains, mix them with the bread crumbs, parsley, and seasoning. Form into small cakes, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the board. Make the dripping smoking hot in a frying-pan, fry the cakes, drain and serve them round the head. Dressed Sheep’s Head.—(English Method). Required: 1 oz. butter; 1 oz. flour; 3 gills milk, sheep’s brains; pepper and salt. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, add the brains, pepper and salt. Remove all the meat from the head (after boiling), put it into the sauce, till thoroughly heated. Dish on hot ashet. XII.—STEWING. The flavour of stews may Ire inexpensively varied by the use of various herbs. See remarks, page 46. Although the gravy of stews may be made with water, they will be richer and more nourishing if, instead of water, they are made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled, liquor from the stockpot, stock made with a few cooked or uncooked bones, or gravy left over from previous stews. When it is not convenient to add the water or liquor warm, it may be added cold.68 MEAT—STEWING. Irish Stew.—Required: y2 lb. scrag-end neck of mutton or flap; i lb. potatoes; y lb. onions ; pepper and salt; hot water. Wipe and trim the meat and cut into pieces. Put it into a stewpan and just cover it with hot water. Add a good pinch of salt, bring it to the boil and skim well. Skin and scald the onions and cut them into thin rings. Wash and peel the potatoes and slice down one or two. Add the onions and sliced potatoes to the meat, season with pepper; and simmer from i y2 to 2 hours. About 40 minutes before serving add the rest of the potatoes whole, or if large cut in two. When ready arrange the whole potatoes neatly round a hot ashet; pile the meat in the centre and pour the gravy over. Note 1.—This dish can be made more digestible by parboiling the potatoes before adding them. Note II.—Remains of cooked meat make excellent Irish stew, but should merely be reheated after the onions and potatoes are tender. Haricot Mutton.—Required: lb. lean mutton; 1 onion ; oz. dripping; y2 oz. flour; y2 pint hot water; piece of carrot; piece of turnip; pepper and salt Wipe and trim the meat and cut it into neat pieces. Skin, scald, and dry the onion, and cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan; brown the meat quickly on both sides and lift it on to a plate. Fry the onion a few seconds, then add the flour, and fry these together until a good brown colour. Add the water by degrees and a pinch of salt. Bring it to the boil, skim well and season with pepper. Return the meat to the pan and simmer 1 y2 to 2 hours, skimming and stirring frequently whilst cooking. Prepare the carrot and turnip, cut into neat blocksMEAT—STEWING. 69 and add them to the stew. (Young vegetables require only about 40 minutes to cook, older ones will take as long as the meat.) When the stew is ready, pile the meat on a hot ashet, with the vegetables round and the sauce poured over. Mutton with Haricot Beans.—Required: y2 lb. lean mutton ; y2 lb. haricot beans ; y2 oz. dripping; 1 pint warm water; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Cut the mutton into neat pieces; brown them with the dripping in a stewpan ; pour away the dripping; add l/2 pint warm water and simmer with the lid on for half an hour. Prepare and cook the haricot beans as directed on page 101. Half an hour before they are ready, and when the mutton has been cooked for half an hour, place the beans with the mutton, adding the other y2 pint of warm water, simmer for another half hour. Beef may be cooked in the same way. Mince Collops—Required: y2 lb. minced steak ; 1 small onion ; 34 oz. dripping ; y2 teaspoonful flour; 1 gill hot water; pepper and salt; sippets of toast. Prepare and chop the onion finely. Make the dripping hot in a stew-pan and fry the onion in it a few seconds. Put in the mince and brown it care- fully ; beating it well with a spoon or fork to prevent it going into lumps. Sprinkle in the flour and mix it. well with the meat. Add the hot water and a pinch of salt; bring it to the boil, and season with pepper. Simmer about 1 hour, stirring it frequently. Serve it on a hot ashet, garnished with sippets of toast Stewed Beef and Vegetables.— Required: y lb> stewing steak ; 1 onion; 3^ oz. flour; 34 oz.70 MEAT-STEWING. dripping; *4 pint hot water ; pepper and salt; carrot; turnip. Wipe the meat and cut it into neat pieces. Skin, scald and dry the onion; then cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan and brown the meat quickly on both sides, then lift it on to a plate. Fry the onion for a few seconds; add the flour and fry these together until a good brown colour. Add the water by degrees ; season with salt; bring to the boil and remove all scum. Return the meat to the pan, add a pinch of pepper, and simmer gently from i y2 to two hours. Occasionally the stew must be skimmed and stirred. Prepare vegetables and dish as for Haricot Mutton. Beef Olives.—Required: lb. stewing steak (thinly cut); i onion ; oz. flour ; )4 oz. dripping; y2 pint hot w7ater; 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful chopped suet; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; pinch powdered herbs; pepper and salt; beaten egg or milk. Stuffing.—Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, pepper and salt, and add enough beaten egg or milk to bind them together. Wipe the meat and cut it into pieces about 2 by 2)4 inches. Place a little o the stuffing in each piece, roll up neatly and tie into shape with a piece of thread. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan and brown the olives in it, then lift them on to a plate. Fry the onion a few seconds add the flour, and fry these together till well browned. _ Add the w'ater by degrees, and a pinch of salt; bring to the boil and skim well. Season with pepper, return the olives to the pan and simmer i l/2 to 2 hours. Make the remainder of the stuffing into small ba s and cook gently in boiling water from 10 to 15 minutes ; then drain them well. When the olives are7 r MEAT—STEWING. tender, remove the string and arrange them neatly on a hot ashet. Pour the sauce over and pile the force- meat balls at each side. If stronger flavouring is desired, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs may be added to the stuffing and a grate of lemon rind. Veal Olives may be made in the same way as beef olives, but should have a thin slice of fat bacon rolled inside. Swiss Stew .—Required: y2 lb. scraps of un- cooked veal; 3 large potatoes; 1 onion ; 1 oz. drip- ping ; 1 teaspoonful flour; 1 tablespoonful ketchup ; i teaspoonful vinegar; y teaspoonful salt : 1 pinch pepper. Mash, pare, parboil, and cut the potatoes into quarters • skin and scald the onion (see page 38). Cut the meat into neat pieces, not too small. &Brown them with the dripping. Sprinkle the meat (still in the pan) with pepper and salt. Add the potatoes and the onion, and cover well with hot water. Add the ketchup and vinegar. Cook slowly for three-quarters ol an hour, keeping the pan covered ; do not stir it or the potatoes will break. Break the flour with cold water. Remove the pan from the fire, so that the contents cease boiling. Pour in the flour and water; shake the pan gently to mix all together; bring to the boil and simmer gently for five minutes. In serving take care not to break the potatoes. Brazilian Stew —Required: y2 lb. coarse lean Deet; /2 carrot j turnip ; 1 onion ; 3 tablespoon- fuls vinegar ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Cleanse, prepare, and slice the carrot and turnip • skin, scald, and slice the onion. Cut the meat into neat pieces and dip them in the vinegar; place them in an earthenware jar with the vegetables on theMEAT—STEWING. 72 top of the meat; add the pepper and salt. Tie a piece of brown paper (greased) over the top of the jar; place the jar in a slow oven ; bake for four hours. If there is no oven, place the jar in a saucepan half full of cold water; bring to the boil, and steam for four hours. Stewed Kidney.—Required: y2 an ox kidney or 3 sheep’s kidneys; y2 oz. flour; y2 oz. dripping; y2 pint hot water; pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the kidney, then wash it thoroughly in salt and water. Dry it and cut it into small pieces, keeping back all the core. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan ; toss the kidney in a little of the flour and brown it well in the hot dripping, then lift it on to a plate. Fry the remaining flour slowly to a good brown colour; then add the water gradually and a pinch of salt. Bring this to the boil, skim it thoroughly and season with pepper. Return the kidney to the pan and simmer about 2 hours till tender. Arrange a border of mashed potatoes (see page 96), round a hot ashet, and in the centre serve the kidney with the sauce poured over. Stewed Rabbit.—Required: 1 rabbit; 1 onion; 1 oz. flour ; 1 oz. dripping; y pint hot water; piece of carrot; piece of turnip; y lb. of bacon; pepper and salt. To Prepare a Rabbit.—Wash the rabbit and soak it in salt and water for 20 minutes. Remove the eyes and everything inside, and carefully take the gall from the liver. Then rinse and dry the rabbit, and divide it into neat pieces, chopping each leg in two. (The head, liver, heart and kidneys may be used to make stock; or if liked, they can be stewed with the other pieces. If the rabbit is old, the strong flavour may be removed by blanching.MEAT—STEWING. 73 To Make the Stew.—Make the dripping hot in a stewpan ; brown the rabbit in it, then lift it on to a plate. Add the onion cut in thin rings, then the flour, and fry these together to rather a light brown colour. Add the water by degrees and a pinch of salt; bring it to the boil, skim well and add a pinch of pepper. Return the rabbit to the pan and simmer i/4 to 2 hours, skimming and stirring frequently. Cut the carrot and turnip into neat blocks and add them to the stew to cook with the meat. Cut the bacon into thin slices ; remove the rust and rind and form each slice into 2 or 3 neat rolls. Place these on a skewer and cook for 7 or 8 minutes in a moderate oven or in front of the fire till crisp. Pile the rabbit on a hot ashet; place the vegetables round and pour the sauce over. Place the bacon on top of the rabbit to keep it crisp. Note.—A young rabbit will take only about 40 or 50 minutes to cook. Spanish Stew.—Required: y2 large or 1 small rabbit; y lb. bacon ; 1 large or two small onions; 1 pinch salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Prepare rabbit as in preceding recipe. Skin, scald, and slice the onions. Place a layer of onions in the bottom of an earthenware jar, with the pepper and salt; then a layer of rabbit; after this layers of onions and rabbit until all is in. Place the slices of bacon on the top; cover the jar tightly with a well-greased paper. Cook in a moderate oven or in a saucepan of boiling water for two hours. It may also be cooked on the hob, but would require nearly three hours. Exeter Stew.—Reqziired: *4 lb. stewing steak ; 1 onion; >4 oz. dripping; 14 oz. flour; 14 pint hot water; pepper; salt; 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful chopped suet; 1 teaspoonful choppedMEAT—STEWING. 74 parsley; pinch powdered herbs; pepper; salt; beaten egg or milk to bind. Wipe the meat and cut it into pieces, skin, scald and dry the onion, then cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan and fry the meat quickly till brown on both sides. Lift it on to a plate ; add the onion and fry it for a -few seconds, then add the flour and fry these together to a good brown colour. Add the water by degrees and the salt; bring it to the boil and skim well. Return the meat to the pan, and simmer to 2 hours, skim- ming and stirring frequently. Forcemeat Balls.—Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, pepper, and salt; and add enough beaten egg or milk to bind together. Flour the hands and form the mixture into small balls ; add these to the stew and cook for 20 or 30 minutes. Pile the meat on a hot ashet, place the balls round and pour the sauce over. Curry.—Required: y2 lb. veal, mutton or beef; L2 oz. dripping; ]/2 an apple; an onion ; 1 tea- spoonful curry powder; 1 dessertspoonful flour; squeeze of lemon juice; y2 pint water; 3 oz. Patna rice. Wipe the meat and cut it in small squares. Chop the onion and apple finely. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan, fry the meat lightly, and lift it on to a plate. Fry the onion and apple for a few seconds, then add the flour and curry-powder and mix all well together. Add the water gradually and a pinch of salt; bring it to the boil and skim well. Add the lemon juice and return the meat. Simmer \l/2 to 2 hours, skimming and stirring up frequently. Dish on a hot ashet and serve with it the Patna rice plain boiled (see page 100).MEAT—STEWING. 75 Very good curry may be made from cold meat. The curry sauce must be simmered about 40 minutes, then the meat should be merely reheated in it. Stewed Knuckle of Veal.—Required: 1 knuckle of veal; y lb. rice ; 1 small blade of mace ; 2 quarts cold water ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Break the knuckle into pieces ; place them in a stew-pan with the water, mace, salt, and pepper ; bring slowly to the boil; simmer from two to three hours till tender. Wash the rice ; add it an hour before the knuckle is ready. Add boiling water if more is required. Macaroni may be used instead of rice ; it should be stewed for one and a half hours. Stewed Lights.— Required: lights; 1 onion; 2 sprigs of parsley; 1 oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful flour; 1 quart hot water ; 1 tablespoonful vinegar ; y2 teaspoonful salt; r pinch pepper. Skin and scald the onion ; wash the lights in cold water and wipe them dry ; cut them into small pieces. Melt the dripping in a large stew-pan ; brown the pieces well, stirring often. Pour the water into the stewpan with the vinegar, pepper, and salt; add the onion and parsley. Bring to the boil; simmer gently for two hours. Break the flour with cold water ; allow the stew to cool a little, add the flour and boil for three minutes. Serve hot. Tripe.—Wash and scrape the tripe thoroughly in several waters, removing fat and all discoloured parts. Put it into a deep pan, cover with cold water, bring to the boil and rinse thoroughly. Repeat these pro cesses till the tripe smells sweet. Then cover with water and simmer 8 to 10 ten hours till the tripe is tender. Stewed Tripe.— Required: y2 lb. well-boiled tripe ; y2 oz. butter; y oz. flour ; 1 gill tripe liquor;7 6 MEAT—STEWING. i gill milk ; i boiled onion; pepper and salt; sippets of toast. Make a white sauce with the flour, butter, milk, and tripe liquor (see page 128). Cut the tripe into neat pieces and chop the onion. Add these to the sauce, season well and simmer very gently about 20 minutes. Serve on hot ashet, with the sippets of toast round. A little mustard relish (see recipe) may be taken with stewed tripe. In England, tripe is generally par- boiled when 6ent from the butcher’s. Dressed Tripe.—Required: lb. boiled tripe; Y lb. fat bacon; teaspoonful chopped parsley; Yi oz. flour; ^4 pint of tripe liquor; 1 dessert- spoonful ketchup; % teaspoonful salt; Y teaspoon- ful pepper. Cut the tripe into neat oblong squares; cut the rind off the bacon; place a piece of bacon on each piece of tripe; mix the pepper, salt, and parsley together; put a small portion on each piece. Roll up the pieces; tie them with string; place them in a pan with some of the liquor the tripe was boiled in. Break the flour with cold water, add this and the ketchup to the liquor; simmer for about half-an-hour. Remove the string; place the tripe neatly in a dish; pour the gravy round it; ornament each piece with a sprig of parsley. Stewed Cow-heel.—Required: x cow-heel; 1 tablespoonful flour; 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley; 1 teaspoonful salt. Rub the foot well with plenty of coarse salt; scald it with boiling water, scrape off all the small hairs. Put it into a large saucepan, with enough cold water to cover it. When the water boils pour it away and put in fresh water; when the water boils again, skimMEAT—FRYING. 77 it well and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire; simmer for about five hours; remove the meat from the bone; cut it into neat pieces. Break the flour in a basin with a little cold water, remove the fat from the stock, and add about a quart of the stock to the flour and water. Put this mixture into the saucepan with the pieces of meat and the salt. Simmer gently for about ten minutes ; add the parsley, and serve. A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice may be added with the parsley. The remaining stock can be clarified and made into sweet jelly for invalids (see page 141), or used for soup. XIII.—FRYING. Steak Fried in the Pan.—y2 lb. best steak (about 1 inch thick); y2 gill hot water; pepper and salt. Wipe the meat and remove the outside skin, then beat it slightly to make it more tender. Make an iron frying-pan thoroughly hot, and rub it well over with the fat side of the skin trimmed from the steak. Place the steak in the pan, and brown it quickly on both sides, then cook it more slowly from 7 to 10 minutes according to thickness. Lift it on to a hot ashet. Add a pinch of pepper and salt, and the hot water to the pan. Boil it up, and pour it round the steak. Fried Sausages.—y2 lb. sausages; y2 oz. drip- ping ; 1 teaspoonful flour ; 1 gill hot water ; pepper and salt. Melt the dripping in a frying-pan. Prick the sausages well with a darning-needle to prevent them bursting. Put them into the pan and fry rather slowly78 MEAT—FRYING. about 15 minutes, turning them frequently. Lift them on to a piece of dry toast, and keep them hot. Add the flour to the hot fat in the pan, and brown it well. Add the hot water and salt; bring it to the boil, skim well, and season with pepper. Boil it for 3 or 4 minutes, then pour it round the sausages. Bacon and Eggs.—Required: y lb. bacon; 1 or 2 eggs. Place the bacon in thin slices in a cold frying-pan; put it on the fire, and, when the fat of the bacon is almost clear, turn it. It takes from five to ten minutes to cook. Remove the bacon to a hot plate. Break the egg gently into a teacup; slide it gently out of the teacup into the frying-pan; it will be cooked in about three minutes. Keep the bacon gravy for making oatcakes and gingerbread, or for eating with bread instead of butter. Toasted Bacon.—Cut the bacon into very thin slices; hold each slice on a fork, putting the fork through the fat part; hold it in front of a bright fire, over a hot dish, till the bacon begins to brown and the fat to curl; when ready, arrange neatly on a hot dish, and serve alone or with poached eggs. Bacon may also be toasted on the hooks in a Dutch oven. Fried Tripe.—Required: lb. cooked tripe; 3 oz. flour; about 1 ^ gills milk; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together; add gradually enough water to make a thick batter. Cut the tripe into neat small pieces ; dry them ; dip each piece with a fork into the batter. Fry according to general directions, page 43. Fried Chop and Potatoes.—Required: 1 chop from loin, or best end neck of mutton, 2 or 3 potatoes.79 COLD MEAT COOKERY. Wipe the chop, and trim off any superfluous fat. Beat it slightly to soften the fibres of the meat. Put the fat trimmed from the chop into a frying-pan and melt it. Put in the chop and brown it quickly and thoroughly on both sides, then cook it more slowly for 5 or 7 minutes according to thickness. Have the potatoes parboiled and dried in a cloth. Cut them into slices about y inch thick, and fry them beside the chop to a light brown colour on both sides, then sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Lift the chop on to a hot plate, and round it arrange the potatoes neatly. Note.—Any cold cooked potatoes can be reheated in this way. XIV.—COLD MEAT COOKERY. Hash.—Required: y2 lb. cold cooked meat; i onion ; y2 oz. flour; y2 oz. dripping; y2 pint stock or boilings; pepper and salt; teaspoonful of ketchup. Prepare the onion, and cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping hot in a small pan, and fry the onion in it for a few seconds. Then add the flour, and fry these together till nicely browned. Add the stock by degrees, and the salt; bring it to the boil and skim well. Add the pepper and ketchup, and simmer for 40 minutes. Cut the meat into neat slices, removing the fat; place it in the sauce, and allow it to become thoroughly hot. The meat requires about 20 minutes to heat, but it must not boil, or it will become hard and stringy. Reseason the hash if necessary, and serve it on a hot ashet, with sippets of toast round. Shepherd s Pie.—Required: y2 lb. cold cooked8o COLD MEAT COOKERY. meat; i small cooked onion ; y2 oz. dripping ; % oz. flour; i gill stock or water; i lb. cooked potatoes ; i tablespoonful milk; pepper and salt. Make the dripping hot in a small pan, and in it brown the onion (chopped) and the flour. Add the stock by degrees, season very well, and boil 3 or 4 minutes. Cut the meat into neat slices, or, if scrappy, chop it, keeping back skin and fat. Add the meat to the sauce, mix well and pour it into a pie dish. Mash the potatoes, and add the milk, pepper, and salt. Beat this over the fire till hot and smooth; place it evenly over the meat and mark it with a fork or knife. Brown the pie in the oven, or in front of the fire. The top may be glazed by brushing it over with milk before browning it. Macaroni and Meat Shape.—Required: 2 oz. cooked macaroni (see page 92); 4 oz. scraps of cooked meat; 1 oz. bread-crumbs, pinch powdered herbs; pepper and salt; 1 small or an egg; 1 gill meat boilings. Chop the macaroni and the meat, and with them mix the bread-crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt. Beat the egg, and add to it the meat boilings, then mix these with the other ingredients. Turn this into a greased basin, cover it with greased paper, and place it in a pan of boiling water. Steam it steadily from 30 to 40 minutes, and turn it on to a hot dish. Note.—Rice may be used instead of macaroni. Bread and Meat Shape.1—Required: y lb. scraps of bread ; y lb. scraps of cooked meat; % tea- spoonful powdered mixed herbs; 1 oz. flour; 1 onion (previously boiled); 1 oz. dripping ; about l/2 gill water or milk; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. 1 This shape can be made into a pudding by adding 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar and 1 oz. currants (cleaned),instead of the meat, herbs, onion, salt, and pepper.COLD MEAT COOKERY. 81 Soak the bread for an hour in cold water; press all the water out, and beat the bread smooth with a fork. Chop the meat and onion very fine; mix all the ingre- dients well together except y2 oz. of dripping. Grease well a basin; place the mixture in it; cover tightly with a well greased paper, leaving room for the bread to swell, and steam for three quarters of an hour. When the basin is lifted out of the water, let it stand for two minutes, then turn out; serve hot or cold. Any cooked vegetables may be finely chopped and used instead of, or in addition to, the meat and onions. Meat Sanders. —Required: 2 oz. cold meat; X lb. cooked potatoes; 1 onion (previously boiled); about 1 oz. flour; y2 oz. dripping; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Mash the potatoes; melt the dripping; mix it with the potatoes. Knead very gradually into the dripping “d potatoes as much flour as they will hold ; roll out once like pastry; cut into oblong square pieces. Chop the meat and onion finely; add to them the pepper and salt. Divide this into as many portions as there are pieces of potato paste; place each portion on a piece of paste; double the paste over first from one side, then from the other, making the second over- lap the first; with the back of a knife press it down along the top and at the two ends. Place on a greased tin; bake in a slow oven for three quarters of an hour to an hour, If there is no oven they may be cooked slowly on a greased girdle. Rissoles. Required: 2 oz. cooked meat; 1 oz. stale bread crumbs, or mashed potatoes, or boiled nee; y teaspoonful minced parsley or powdered mixed herbs; oz. flour; about 1% tablespoonfuls mirL> ^ teaspoonful salt; y^ teaspoonful pepper Mince the meat finely. Mix all the ingredientsCOLD MEAT COOKERY. 82 well together; form into small balls; brush over with milk; toss in the flour in a sheet of kitchen paper. Fry according to general directions, page 43. Instead of using milk and flour, the rissoles may be dipped into an egg beaten on a plate, and then tossed in bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper. Meat Salad.—Required: Y/z lb. cold meat; 1 hard boiled egg; 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley; 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar; 3 tablespoonfuls oil; 1 pinch of dry mustard; % teaspoonful salt; y tea- spoonful pepper. Hard boil an egg (see page 124); remove the shell; chop the egg very fine. Put the egg, parsley, dry mustard, salt and pepper, into a small basin; mix well with a spoon; add the vinegar, mix again; add the oil, and stir till the sauce is quite smooth. Cut the meat into very thin slices; put them into a salad bowl; add the sauce; let the meat soak for about half an hour; mix well before serving. The addition of spring onions chopped finely, and one or two boned anchovies cut in small pieces will be found an im- provement. Bubble and Squeak.—Required: ^ lb. cold salt beef; 1 lb. cold greens or cabbage; 1 oz. dripping; y teaspoonful pepper; 1 small pinch of salt. Chop the greens; cqt the meat into thin slices. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, and when hot, fry the meat very slightly; place the slices on a hot plate and keep them warm. Add the pepper and salt to the greens, fry them till they are heated through but not browned; arrange them neatly in the centre of the dish, and put the slices of meat round the vegetables. ' Cold underdone fresh meat may be cooked in the same way.83 MISCELLANEOUS. XV.—MISCELLANEOUS. Porridge.—Required: 1 tablespoon ful medium oatmeal; y2 pint water; salt. Have the water freshly boiled in a deep pan, and add to it the salt. Sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring carefully with a stick or wooden spoon to prevent lumps. Boil and stir for the first 5 or 6 minutes till the meal is well swollen, then simmer for at least half an hour, stirring up frequently. If necessary, add more boiling water, as porridge should be of a good pouring consistency. Note. Some people find porridge more digestible if the meal is soaked overnight in the cold water. To Render down Fat.—Take about 2 pounds scraps of fat from beef, mutton, or veal. Remove skin, flesh, glands, or discoloured parts, and cut the fat into small equal-sized pieces. Place it in a strong, unlined, iron pan ; cover it with cold water and add V2 a teaspoonful of salt. Bring it slowly to the boil, and remove all scum. Simmer it without the lid for 5 or 6 hours till the water has evaporated, the fat is shrivelled and crisp, and a clear, yellow liquid remains. Allow it to become cool, then strain it through a cloth into a strong basin. When cold it should form a firm, white cake. This fat may now be used for pastry or cakes, and frying, etc. The fat after being used for frying, should be strained, and kept for that purpose only. Note. Cooked fat may be clarified in the same manner. Clarified Dripping.—Take any clarified fat that has become discoloured by constant use ; or fat from the top of meat boilings, etc. Put it into a strong, unlined pan, and cover it with cold water, adding a84 MISCELLANEOUS. good pinch of baking soda to whiten the fat. Bring it to the boil, skim and boil about 20 minutes. Allow it to cool slightly, and strain it through a cloth into a bowl. When cold, lift off the cake of fat, scrape away the sediment underneath, melt it down, and pour it into a clean bowl. Mock Hare.—Required: Yz lb. stewing steak (cut in a slice); 4 oz. bread crumbs; 2 oz. minced suet; 2 oz. minced ham ; 1 chopped onion; 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley; pepper, salt; 1 beaten egg. Mix bread crumbs, suet, ham, onion, parsley, pepper, and salt, and bind with a beaten egg. Trim and wipe steak, spread on stuffing, roll up, and tie with a string. Place in a Yorkshire tin, with a little dripping on top; bake for 1 Yz hours, basting frequently. When ready, dish and keep hot; pour off nearly all the fat, dredge in and brown a little flour, adding water to make a nice sauce. Pour round meat,and serve with red currant jelly. To Draw a Fowl.—Pluck the feathers, then singe the fowl to remove the small hairy feathers. Lay the fowl on its breast, make an incision along the back of the neck from the body to the head. Cut off the head; separate the skin from the neck, and fold the skin back over the breast ; then cut off the neck close to the body. Draw out the crop carefully and then the wind- pipe. Wipe the piece of skin to remove the blood. With a sharp knife enlarge the opening at the other end of the bird, about an inch upwards, from the middle. Draw out all the inside of the bird, taking care not to break the gall bladder which is attached to the liver. Wipe the opening with a damp cloth. Pre- serve the neck and giblets for soup or gravy. To Truss a Fowl for Roasting.—Cut off the toes at the first joint. Put the legs in a basin of boil- ing water for a few minutes ; the skin can then beMISCELLANEOUS. 85 easily peeled off. Place the fowl on its breast; fold the skin over the opening at the neck on to the back. Turn in the wing with the end outside in the shape of a triangle ; the points will then keep the loose skin in its place. Push back the legs close to the sides of the bird, crossing each other at the knees. Tie the legs with the tail commonly called the “ parson’s nose” firmly together. Pass a skewer through the pinion and through the part of the leg placed under the wing, then through the body, the other leg and pinion. Remove the gall bladder from the liver, taking care not to break it; wash the liver in cold water, dry it. Remove the fat from the gizzard, cut it open, and take out the inside and the coarse skin; wash and dry the gizzard. Place the liver and gizzard each in a wing of the bird. If the fowl is lean, put a small piece of butter or dripping into the inside. To Truss a Fowl for Boiling.—The fowl is trussed in the same way as for roasting, with the fol- lowing differences Cut off the legs at the first joint; put the fingers into the bird, and loosen all the skin round the legs till they can be pushed back within the skin. Push back the legs into the body of the bird, so that the whole is inside; put the liver and heart into the bird; fold the skin of the breast over the end of the legs which appear at the hole, and tie firmly with double string; then turn up the parson’s nose, pushing it in so as to fill up the opening. Sheep s Haggis.—Required: the stomach-bag of a sheep; the pluck—/.<?., the heart, liver, and lights; y2 lb. minced beef-suet; 2 teacupfuls toasted oatmeal; 4 onions (parboiled); 1 pint pot-liquor; 1 teaspoonful salt; y2 teaspoonful pepper. Wash the bag well in cold water, put it into hot water, and scrape it; then let it lie in cold water allMISCELLANEOUS. 86 night with a little salt. Wash the pluck well; put it into a pan, letting the windpipe hang over the side; cover it with boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and let it boil for two hours; then take it out of the pan, and when it is cold cut away the windpipe. Grate a quarter of the liver (not using the rest for the haggis), and mince the heart and lights, also the suet and the parboiled onions. Add to all these the oatmeal, which has been dried and toasted to a golden colour before the fire or in the oven; also the pepper and salt, and a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Mix these all well together. Take the bag and fill it little more than half full of the mince; if it be too full, it will burst in boiling. Sew up the hole with needle and thread, and put the haggis into a pan of boiling water. Prick the bag occasionally with a needle, to prevent it bursting. Boil this for three hours, then serve it on a hot plate. Pan Haggis.—Prepare the same mixture as for haggis; but instead of putting it into a bag, put it into a pan with a little more of the liquor, and let it stew for two hours. Liver Puddings.—Required: a quarter of a boiled liver; Y lb. fat bacon; Y lb. stale bread- crumbs ; about Yz teacupful milk or water; i table- spoonful flour; Yz oz. dripping; Y teaspoonful salt; Y teaspoonful pepper. Take a piece of the liver not used for the haggis; grate it down ; chop the bacon small; mix the bread- crumbs, flour, pepper, and salt together; then add the liver and the bacon. Moisten with a little milk or water, and mix well together. Grease some cups with melted dripping, then put in the mixture; twist over each cup a piece of greased paper (not printed paper); steam in a pan from one to one and a half hours, thenMISCELLANEOUS. 87 turn out and serve. If the water boils away, add boiling water. Poor Man’s Goose.—Required: A sheep’s liver and heart; y2 lb. fat bacon; about 1 teaspoonful powdered sage; 2 onions (previously boiled); 1 oz. Hour ; y2 oz. dripping; 1 gill cold water; y teaspoon- ful salt; y teaspoonful pepper; 2 lbs. potatoes. Wash and dry the liver and heart thoroughly; cut them into thin slices; dip each slice into the flour. Chop the onions; cut the bacon into thin slices and remove the rind. Place a layer of heart and liver in the bottom of a greased pie dish ; sprinkle over it a little of the chopped onion, sage, pepper and salt; place a layer of bacon, then a layer of potatoes ; repeat this till the materials (except the dripping) are all in the dish. Add the cold water. Cover the dish with a greased paper; bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Toad in the Hole.—Required: % lb. sausages; y lb. flour; 1 egg; y2 pint milk; y teaspoonful salt. Put the flour and salt into a basin, break the egg into a cup, beat it, add it to the flour, stir well together; add the milk gradually, stirring well till smooth, and then beating. The batter is light enough when air bells rise. Prick the sausages with a fork, put them into a greased pie dish, pour the batter over them and bake in the oven for about three- quarters of an hour. The batter is lighter when made about two hours before it is wanted. Instead of sausages, kidneys or very small pieces of uncooked meat may be used. Jam.—Proportions: 1 lb. fruit to 1 lb. sugar. Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the stalks and any decayed pieces. Lay the fruit and sugar all night in a basin to draw out some of the juice. PlaceMISCELLANEOUS. 88 the fruit, juice, and sugar in a clean pan, which should not be more than three quarters full, as jam boils up. Bring very slowly to the boil, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon; skim carefully ; strawberries and raspberries should then be boiled for about twenty minutes; rhubarb, gooseberries, plums, and black currants about half an hour. When ready place in pots and cover tightly with paper immediately. If the jam is to be used within three months, less sugar—say three quarters of a pound may be used, especially with strawberries and raspberries, which are sweet. Jelly.—Proportions: i pint juice to i lb. loaf sugar. Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the stalks and any decayed pieces; place it in a clean pan ; let it slowly warm (not boil) till the juice has come well out. Then squeeze the fruit gently in a piece of muslin or clean kitchen towel. Measure the juice; return it to the pan with the sugar, bring slowly to the boil; skim carefully; boil quickly for five to ten minutes. To know if the jelly is ready put a spoonful in a saucer in a cool place; if it stiffens immediately it is ready; if not, boil for a few minutes longer. Put into pots and cover tightly with paper immediately. Where strict economy is practised the fruit left in the muslin or cloth should be stewed with a little water and sugar, and eaten with rice or bread. Snow Pancakes.—Required: freshly-fallen snow; 2 oz. flour; i teaspoonful sugar; i oz. dripping. Place some newly-fallen snow in a basin near the fire; when it has melted, mix as much of it with the flour and sugar as will make the usual consistency of pancake batter. This should form four pancakes. Cook in the same way as ordinary pancakes. Pickle for Meat.—Required: 2 lbs. common salt; 4 oz. brown sugar; 2 oz. saltpetre; 2 gallons water.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 89 Boil all together till everything is melted; strain. When the pickle is cold, put the fresh meat into it for a week, ten days, or more, according to the degree of saltness desired. Browning.—Required: *4 lb. brown sugar; about y.z pint boiling water. Heat an old iron pan on the fire; rub it with a little dripping. Put the sugar into it, let it melt, stir with an iron spoon till it is a dark brown. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, add the water gradually, stirring all the time. Place the pan on the fire again, and stir till all is smooth. Let it cool, and pour it into a bottle; cork it well, and it will keep for some months. A Cheap Filter.—Get a tinsmith to put a rim at the lowec-end of the tube of a common tin funnel; tie a piece of muslin over this rim, so as to close the end of the tube. Fill this tube one-third with fine river gravel, one-third with sharp river sand, and one-third with powdered vegetable charcoal. Charcoal may be got by burning a stick, or purchased for one penny at a druggists. Do not fill the tube too tightly; at the top of the tube put in a small clean sponge. Put the tube of the funnel into a bottle or jug. All water poured into the upper part of the funnel will gradually come through the muslin perfectly filtered. XVI. CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. Goose Pudding. Required: j{ lb. scraps of breau, 1 large or 2 small onions (previously boiled) • y2 oz. flour; y teaspoonful powdered sage; oz. dripping; 2 tablespoonfuls milk; % teaspoonful salt: 1 pinch of pepper. ;go CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. Soak the bread for an hour in cold water; pour off the water; bruise the bread with a fork till it is smooth. Chop the onion; mix all the ingredients well together except i oz. of dripping. Grease a baking tin; place the mixture in it, and put the rest of the dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in the oven for half an hour. If there is no oven, put the tin on a hot hob or girdle for twenty minutes, then brown before the fire. Turn out of the tin and cut into four or six pieces. Serve hot or cold. Savoury Rice.—Required: 2 oz. rice; 1 large or 2 small onions (previously boiled); Yz oz. dripping; Yz pint pot liquor; Y\ teaspoonful salt; % teaspoon- ful pepper. Wash the rice; burst it; pour away the water. Chop the onion; add it, the pepper, salt, and liquor to the rice; simmer for a quarter of an hour till the rice is quite tender. Place on a dish; put the drip- ping in small pieces on the top; brown in the oven or before the fire. Serve hot. Rice and Cheese.—Required: 2 oz. whole rice ; 1 oz. grated cheese ; 1 oz. dripping; about 1 >4 gill skim milk; 1 pinch of salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Wash the rice; burst it; strain off the water. Place the milk, pepper, and salt in the pan with the rice; simmer for a quarter of an hour till the rice is quite tender; the mixture should not be so moist as for a pudding. Spread a thin layer of the rice on a flat dish; sprinkle half of the cheese over it; add the remainder of the rice, then the rest of the cheese over that. Place the dripping on the top in small pieces, and brown before the fire or in the oven ; if browned in the oven, a little dripping should be placed at the bottom of the dish to prevent the rice and milk burning. Serve hot.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 91 Sweet Rice Croquettes.—Required: 1 teacup- ful of rice ; ^ lb. bread crumbs ; 2 oz. sugar ; a small piece of lemon-rind ; 1 pint milk; 1 egg; frying fat. Wash the rice well; put it into a small saucepan ; cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. When the water has been absorbed, add the lemon-rind and pour in the milk by degrees; simmer till quite soft and almost dry, stirring the rice very often. Add the sugar; mix well; remove the lemon-rind; put the mixture on a plate to cool. Flour a corner of a board or table ; form the rice into small shapes, and roll each in flour. When all the shapes are ready, break the egg on a plate, beat it with a fork; brush each piece with the egg; cover with bread crumbs; fry. When sufficiently cooked, place them on paper to dry; then pile them on a dish, dredging them over with white sugar. Savoury Rice Croquettes.—These are made in the same way as sweet croquettes, only the rice is cooked in water or stock instead of milk, and grated cheese or onions boiled and chopped added in place of sugar. Savoury Potatoes. — Required: 1 lb. boiled potatoes; oz. grated cheese; 1 oz. dripping or butter ; 1 gill cold milk ; ^ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Mash the potatoes (cold potatoes will do) till no lumps remain. Add the salt, pepper, milk, and half of the cheese; mix well. Place the potatoes smoothly in a small greased pie dish, sprinkle the remaining cheese on the top, also the dripping in small pieces; bake in a brisk oven or before the fire for a few minutes till it is a golden colour. If it is possible to add on the top a little gravy from any roast meat, it will be found an improvement. Serve very hot92 CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. Fat Brose.—Required: 2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal; 1 y?, oz. dripping; about 2 gills boiling water; 1 pinch salt. Put the oatmeal, salt, and dripping in a basin; stir the boiling water in gradually; put the mixture in a pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes. A pinch of pepper may be added, and a chopped onion (previously boiled). Peas 'Bvos&.—Requb'ed: 2 tablespoonfuls peas- meal; 1 pinch of salt; about 1 y2 gills boiling water. Put the meal and salt in a basin; stir the boiling water in gradually; put the mixture in a pan on the fire, and boil for five minutes. Fat Peas Brose.—Required: 2 tablespoonfuls peasmeal; iy2 oz. dripping; about 1 gill boiling water ; x pinch salt. Prepaid and cook in the same way as Fat Brose. Boil for five minutes. Macaroni and Cheese.—Required: 4 oz. maca- roni ; 3 oz. cheese; y2 oz. butter or dripping; y2 oz. flour; y2 pint milk; pepper and salt; y2 teaspoonful made mustard. Break the macaroni into pieces and throw it into a pan of quickly-boiling salted water. Boil steadily without the lid 30 to 40 minutes till tender, skimming and stirring up frequently. When it is ready, dram away the water. Grate the cheese. Make a white sauce with the butter, flour, and milk (see page 128). Add the macaroni and the seasonings, then add the cheese, reserving about a tablespoonful. If necessary add a little more milk, as the macaroni thickens the sauce. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, wipe the edges of the dish, and bake in the oven in front of the fire till nicely browned. Serve very hot.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 93 Welsh Rabbit.—Required: i round of stale bread; about 2 oz strong cheese; y, oz. butter; r tablespoonful milk; y?, teaspoonful made mustard; y teaspoonful salt; r pinch of pepper. Toast the bread on both sides; put it on a hot plate in front of the fire; spread it with the butter. Cut the cheese into small pieces ; melt them in a small pan with the milk, pepper, salt, and mustard ; stir till smooth; spread quickly over the buttered toast. Unless served immediately, the rabbit becomes tough. Mealy Puddings.— Required: some long pud- ding skins, 1 lb. oatmeal; y lb. minced beef suet ; 3 small or 2 large onions (parboiled); y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Get from the butcher some long skins for puddings; wash them well in warm water, then lay them to soak all night in cold water and salt. Rinse them well, loast the oatmeal to a light golden colour before the fire or in the oven, stirring it to let it toast equally. Chop the suet very fine, also the cooked onions; mix all together, with the pepper and salt. Tie the end of the pudding skin with thread, then put in enough o tie mixture to make it the length of a sausage; tie the skin again, but leave room for the pudding to swell. Leave about an inch of the skin, tie it again, then fill another, and so on. (The space is to allow each pudding to be cut off without letting out the mixture.) Have a pan with water in it nearly boiling and a little salt. Prick the puddings all over with a darning needle, to prevent them bursting, and boil them for twenty minutes or half an hour. Serve hot. Currant Puddings.—Required: some long pud- ding skins; yA lb. stale bread crumbs; 2 oz. flour; /4 lb. minced beef suet; y lb. currants 2 oz.94 VEGETABLES. sugar; y teaspoonful ground ginger, nutmeg, or cinnamon. Prepare skins as in last recipe ; clean the currants ; chop the suet very fine. Mix all the ingredients well together; prepare the puddings and cook as in last recipe. Peas Pudding.—Required: y2 lb. split peas; y2 oz. dripping or butter; i teaspoonful sugar; y tea- spoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Lay the peas to soak all night in cold water. Next day tie them loosely (to allow them to swell) in a pudding cloth; put into a pan of boiling water; boil for three or four hours till the peas are quite soft. Hold the cloth with the peas in it above the pan for a few minutes to drain out all the water; turn the peas into a basin; bruise them till quite smooth with a fork ; stir in with them the dripping, sugar, pepper, and salt. When well mixed, return all to the cloth ; tie in tightly, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn out in a round shape on a dish. Peas pudding may either be served alone or with a fat dish such as pork. XVI I.—'VEGETABLES. Potatoes for Boiling should be chosen as much of one size as possible, in order that they may be equally cooked. They are best cooked in their skins, as the finest part of the potato is next the skin, and some of this is removed by paring before cooking. The length of time required for cooking varies accord- in'’ to the size and age of potatoes, large and old potatoes taking the longest. Those grown on sandy soil are the finest, and keep their colour best when not used immediately. Good potatoes should present95 VEGETABLES. a mealy and dry appearance when well cooked, and should not have any hard piece in the middle. The skins must on no account be eaten, as they are most indigestible. The water in which potatoes are cooked should be thrown away, and potatoes should be parboiled before being added to any dish (Irish stew, etc.), because there is in potatoes a hurtful, almost poisonous, quality,1 which is removed by great heat; the water potatoes are boiled in is rendered unwholesome. Old Potatoes Boiled in their Jackets— Required: potatoes; cold water; i teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Cleanse them (see page 37). Place them in an iron pan with enough cold water to cover them, and the salt. Bring to the boil; boil slowly for about 20 minutes • try with a fork if they are soft. If so, pour away all the water; lift the lid partly off to allow the steam to escape; place the pan beside the fire till the potatoes are dry, shaking it occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the pan. Remove the skins ; serve hot. Old Potatoes Boiled without their Jackets. —Required: potatoes ; cold water; 1 teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Wash and pare the potatoes (see page 37). Pro- ceed as in the previous recipe. Baked Potatoes. Required: large old potatoes. Wash and wipe dry the potatoes. Place them in an oven or on the bars of the grate. Turn occa- sionally, that they may be equally cooked. They are ready when they feel soft, and generally take about an hour and a half to two hours. Serve very hot. „ !i P?!at°eS bel°ng t0 the botan>cal family Solanacece and have in POiSOn Which ^ strong D96 VEGETABLES. Mashed Potatoes.—Required: i lb. boiled po- tatoes ; Y oz. dripping or butter; g'H milk; a small pinch of pepper; teaspoonful salt. Crush the potatoes first with a fork and then with a large wooden spoon, to be sure that no lumps remain. Add the dripping, milk, salt, and pepper, and mash well in an iron pan over the fire till the dripping has melted and mixed with the potatoes; arrange neatly on a dish. Mashed potatoes are finest when made with freshly boded potatoes, still hot. New Potatoes.—Required: potatoes; boiling water ; i teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Cleanse and prepare the potatoes (see page 37). Place them in enough boiling water to cover them, and the salt. Boil briskly for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, till soft. Then dry at the side of the fire as described for old potatoes. New Potatoes: Swiss Way. — Required: small new potatoes; a pan of frying fat. Wash the potatoes, wipe them with a coarse cloth to remove the skins; dry well. Have the fat hot enough for frying (see page 43). Put the potatoes in one by one, and fry rather slowly till they are oi a dark brown colour; this takes about 20 minutes. Put them on kitchen paper to drain ; sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve hot. When carefully cooked, the centre of the potatoes should be dry and mealy. Boiled Carrots. — Required: carrots; boiling water ; Yz teaspoonful salt to 1 quart water. Prepare the carrots (see p. 37). If the carrots are very large cut them in half lengthways and across. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water and the salt; boil for about an hour. If old they areVEGETABLES. ful sugar to^quarfof peS b°lhng wateri 1 teaspoon- 97 nice mashed and mixed with mashed turnips, a little dripping or butter, and a pinch of salt. . Turnips. Prepare the turnips (see p. 38) Cook mjhe same way as carrots ; thiy take''rather less Cabbage. Required: 1 cabbage : boiling water • 1 teaspoonful salt to 1 quart of water G 3 Prepare the cabbage (see p. ,7)' p]acp ;n a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover it Let it bml uncovered ini. very fast, till the stalk end of the ofan hoiP PI ay°Ut ha'f,an hour to three quarters 1 ’ ace ^ ln a colander, and press with a £nto SqquUa«eZres°Ut P|ace in a ^ »d eqUa' q,lantities oold * teas<)oonru' Crush the potatoes with a fork • rhnr. ui small; mix both together and plac^ in a^aucepat wkh the ^npp!nS> PePPer, and salt. Stir over the fire till ?re^PPinghaS me!ted and mix with the vegetable Grease a basin or nie dish • r»ic^ o • &etaDies. onUVVir;l,s0erv°eVhotfor ’**** half“ “rum om 1 qua«u^"-boi,ins with the flower downwards ^SeC pa?e PIace it cover it. Boil uncovered forT0”®?* XJI,lng "’ater to an hour, till the stalk end is tender y pTce'd f° ^ flower in a colanrW .rv 1 • nQLI' p‘ace the cauh- with melted butter. ram ° P dle water. ServeVEGETABLES. 98 Shell the peas ; place them in plenty of boiling water; boil uncovered till tender, about a quarter of an hour for young peas, from three quarters of an hour to one hour for old peas. Strain off the water; serve the peas in a dish with the sugar sprinkled over them. . Stewed Peas with Bacon.—Required: y2 pint shelled peas ; i oz. fat bacon ; i small onion ; i table- spoonful flour; y2 pint hot water; % teaspoonful salt; i pinch of pepper. Cut the bacon into very small square pieces, remov- ing the rind ; put them into a small stewpan and fry to a golden colour. Prepare the onion (see page 38) and cut it in slices ; toss them in the hot fat for a few seconds, but do not let them brown. Add the peas and stir continually for a few seconds longer till all is well mixed ; add the salt, pepper, and flour, stir again till you see no traces of dry flour. Then pour in the water gradually, stirring all the time, and coyer the pan. Simmer for about an hour, stirring occasionally. Serve very hot. . , Stewed Onions.—Required: 1 Spanish onion ; 1 gill of milk; >4 oz. flour; 1 pinch salt; 1 pinch Skin the onion ; put it in a pan and cover it with boiling water; boil till tender (large onions take about one and a half to two hours, small onions about three- quarters of an hour) ; pour away the water. Break the flour with the milk ; add the pepper and salt; put this into the pan and stir till it boils ; let it boil with the onion in it for three minutes. If the sauce is too thick, add a little cold milk or water. Baked Onions.—Required: 1 Spanish onion; 1 oz. dripping ; 1 pinch pepper; 1 pinch salt. Place the onion (unskinned) in boiling water boilVEGETABLES. m several waters; place them in ’a saucepanwhh 99 till tender; skin it; place it and the dripping in a small baking tin; put into the oven; baste the onion frequently till brown; sprinkle with pepper and salt and serve. ’ Spinach. Required: i lb. spinach; U oz butter; pepper; salt. 7 Wash and pick the spinach (see page 38). Pack it into a deep pan that will just hold it, having no water except what clings to the leaves after washing Spnnkle lt with a little salt, put on the lid, and cook ver the fire about 20 to 30 minutes till tender stirrmg occasionally. Put it into a colander or sieve! and carefully dram away all the water. Pass it snnnUgh °T Slmply ^ SmOOth with a ' and salt F" With the butter’ Pepper, dish 1 1 borough ly reheat it, pile it neatly on a dish, and arrange sippets of fried bread round SpiSa<Jimay a S° be served with Poached eggs. . Ne|:tles*—Gather (with a thick glove) young nettles n early spnng. Pour boiling water o'ver them let them he for five minutes; pour away the water Pick the leaves off the stalks ; place the leaves in plenty of boiling water (allowing one half teaspoonful 0Pf salt to one quart of water); boil uncovered and very quick y for about ten minutes. Drain away the water^ chon up the nettles very fine; rub witl/a wooden'spoon tiU smooth and finish in the same way as spinach ^ °z. dripping*; teaspoon Galher Iheplam before it flowers: take tm with it he heart of the plant as far as the ’top of X brown root. Ihrow away the dead leaves; wash the plantsVEGETABLES. IOO plenty of boiling water. Boil uncovered for about half an hour ; drain away the water; chop up the dande- lions very fine; put them in a pan with the dripping, flour, and seasoning ; mix all well; add the pot liquor; simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour. When ready, the addition of a little gravy from roast meat is an improvement. Lettuces.—Prepare and cook in the same way as dandelions. . Beetroot.—Wash the beetroot in cold water, rubbing it with a soft brush not to break the skin. Put it into a pan with plenty of boiling water; boil uncovered for from an hour to an hour and a halt, press it with the finger, if soft it is ready; do not prick it with a fork or the juice will run out and bleach the root. Let it cool in the water, then remove the skin and the top, and cut into thin slices. Arrange these on a dish and put a little vinegar pepper, and salt, over them; if wanted to keep, put the slices into a jar, and cover with boiling vinegar Beetroot can also be served hot (the skin and top bein°r removed) with melted butter. . . Rice for Curry.—Wash the rice well; put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water ; stir well with a spoon to separate the grains; boil for from fifteen to seventeen minutes till the rice is well swoUen and soft but the grains must not be broken. Pour into a sieve or colander to drain away the water; let it ry in front of the fire and serve round the curry. If the rice is cooked too much and the grains do not separate hdd the sieve under the cold water tap, and let the water run freely over the rice, then put the sieve colander in the oven for a few minutes to warm the rice. , . Patna rice is the best for curry.IOI VEGETABLES. Boiled Rice with Meat.—About twenty minutes before serving the meat, put a good cupful of well washed rice into the broth or stock, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Pour the stock through a colander to separate it from the rice and arrange the rice round the meat, adding a little of the stock as gravy. Plain Boiled Macaroni.—Required: ]/A lb. macaroni; 2 quarts hot water; y2 teaspoonful salt. Put the macaroni into boiling water with the salt • leave the saucepan uncovered; allow the macaroni to boil for about thirty minutes till quite soft and swollen; pour through a colander to drain away the water. _ Serve hot, with or without parsley sauce. Haricot Beans.—Required: 1 pint beans; 2 quarts cold water; 1 teaspoonful salt. Wash the beans in cold water; put them into a basin and cover them well with cold water. Soak for one night, pour away the water; put the beans into a saucepan with plenty of cold water; boil for about two hours, till the beans are quite soft, but not broken Pour them into a colander, so as to drain the water well away. When ready, serve with parsley sauce poured over them. Mushrooms.—Some mushrooms are edible; many are poisonous The commonest edible mushrooms are generally found in meadows and on open ground and are in greatest abundance in August and Septem- is nink in P IS Sm°°th’ never wartP i the underside ones Ther°0mj and brown in the old« eood for flo k 15 ” and fleSh>'- Mushrooms are good for flavouring soups and stews, or may be used separately as a vegetable. Grilled Mushrooms.—Required: 6 small or 2 nfnchls^°0raS; * °Z- bUttCr' 1 Pinch PWer-102 VEGETABLES. Wipe the mushrooms with a dry cloth to remove earth and sand ; remove the stalks ; if the mushrooms are old skin them ; heat and grease the gridiron; place it over a slow fire; melt the butter in a cup ; dip each mushroom into it; grill for about five minutes, turning them when half done; sprinkle with the pepper and salt and serve hot. The skin and stalks should be used to flavour soups and stews. Mushrooms may be cooked in the oven or before the fire in a greased tin. The butter in the tin should be poured over the mushrooms before serving. Stewed Mushrooms.—Required: 6 small or 3 large mushrooms; oz. butter; teaspoonful flour; about 1 tablespoonful water; % teaspoonful vinegar ; 1 pinch pepper ; 1 pinch salt. Melt the butter in a very small pan ; stir in the flour; add the vinegar and water gradually; add the pepper and salt. Clean the mushrooms as in the last recipe ; remove the stalks and the skin, if old, put the mushrooms in the pan and stew gently for about ten minutes. Plain Salad. —Required: 1 lettuce ; mustard (the vegetable); cress; salad sauce (see page 13°)- The vegetables must be very fresh. Cleanse the vegetables; break off each leaf of the lettuce caiefully, cut or break them across in small pieces; wash these pieces again in cold water; drain them and toss them in a dry towel to dry. Arrange the lettuce, mustard, and cress according to taste. Just before serving ad the salad sauce and sprinkle the chopped hard boiled white of egg over the salad. _ A good addition to salad is radishes (washed and brushed) either whole or in slices.PASTRY. 103 XVIII.—PASTRY. Economical Short Crust.—Required: ^ lb. flour; 2 oz. dripping; % teaspoonful baking powder; 1 teaspoonful sugar ; about V2 teacupful cold water. Rub the flour and dripping lightly together with the finger tips till they are of the consistency of fine bread-crumbs; add the sugar and baking-powder, and stir in gradually as much cold water as will make it into a dough stiff enough to turn out of the basin in one lump, leaving the basin clean. Roll the paste out once, and it is then ready for use. This will cover a very small tart, or make about six tartlets. the sugar^ ^ meat> take a pinch of sak instead of Richer Short; Crust.—Required: 4 oz. flour; 2/4 oz. butter; 14 egg (yolk and white mixed); 1 tea- spoonful of sugar; 1 tablespoonful cold water. I repare as in last recipe, omitting the baking- powder, and add the half egg with the sugar. g t ruit Tart.—Reverse the empty pie-dish unon the paste, and with a knife dipped in flour cut the paste close off by the outer rim of the dish. Fill the pie-dish with fruit and sugar, allowing about 3 oz sugar to the pound of fruit; wet the edge of the dish with water. Cut part of the remaining pastry into a strip, place this upon the wetted edge of the dish then wet the top of this strip, and place upon it the pmce of paste first cut out. Press this upper piece gainst the strip with your thumbs, then with a sharp th^re S-P* rounZ thumb upon the edge of the pastiy.TnTdraw^hfb^104 PASTRY. sugar and water or with nnlk. Pla.ce in a. hot part of the oven for five minutes, to allow the starch-cells of the flour to burst, and the dripping melted by the heat to be absorbed by them, and then remove to a cooler part until the pastry and fruit are cooked. Dredge the tart over with a little white sugar before serving. To make Tartlets, cut out the paste into round shapes with a tumbler or tin paste-cutter dipped in flour; slightly grease small patty tins, fit a round of paste into each tin, brush the edge of the paste with a little sugar and water, and half fill with jam or stewed fruit. Bake as directed above. Cornish Pasties.—Required: short crust (the quantity given at page 103) ; 2 oz. scraps of meat; 1 potato (parboiled); 1 onion; % teaspoonful salt, 1 pinch of pepper; 1 tablespoonful of gravy. Roll out the paste very thin; cut it into rounds with a tin cutter or small saucepan lid (the quantity mentioned should make four). Chop the meat; skin and chop the parboiled potato; skin, parboil, and chop the onion ; mix the meat, potato, onion, pepper, an salt together. Divide it into as many portions as there are rounds of paste; place each in the centre of a round. Wet the edge with a little cold water, double the round, and press the edges together. Raise the pasty, letting it rest on the middle of the round , with the fingers bend the edges into deep curves. Brush over the pasties with a little milk, Place in a greased tin, and bake in an oven for about hal ^Potato Pastry.—Required: 4 tablespoonfuls mashed potatoes; 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 oz dripping; teaspoonful baking powder; pinch salt; a little milk.PASTRY. 105 Rub the dripping into the flour; add the baking- powder and the salt, then mix in the potatoes. Add as much milk as will make a stiff paste; roll out to inch in thickness. This pastry can now be used for covering pies, sausage rolls, etc. Flaky Crust.—Required: ^ lb. flour; 2 oz. butter ; 1 pinch of salt; cold water. Divide the butter into three pieces; put the salt and the flour into a basin, and add a very small quantity of cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Knead lightly on the floured board, and roll out very thin. Take one of the three pieces of butter, and put it in small lumps all over the paste; fold the paste in three, turn the rough edges towards you, roll out again; add the second piece of butter in the same way on the paste, fold in three, and roll out again; then add the third piece of butter in the same way. hold the paste in three, and roll it out two or three times till you see no more patches of butter; then use directly. Rough Puff Pastry.—Required: 6 oz. flour; 3 oz. butter; pinch salt; few drops lemon juice; cold water. Put flour and salt into a dry basin and mix together, add the butter, and break it into pieces the size of a walnut; add the lemon juice and cold water to bind these ingredients together. Flour a baking board and turn the pastry on to it. Knead very slightly, then roll it out into a strip. Fold in three, press the edges together and give the pastry a half turn round, again roll this out, fold in three and turn half round, repeat the rolling and folding till the pastry has been folded four times. It is now ready for use when it can be rolled out to the size and thickness required. Note. I his pastry is suitable for meat pies, sausage rolls, etc.PASTRY. io6 Russian Fish Pie.—Required: % lb. cold cooked fish; flaky crust (double the proportions given at page 104); 1 oz. boiled rice ; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; oz. dripping or butter; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Roll out the crust to a neat square; break the fish into small pieces, removing the bones. Mix it with the boiled rice, parsley, dripping, salt and pepper. Place this mixture in the centre of the square of paste; wet the edges of the paste; fold it in from the corners like an envelope, bringing one comer over the other. Brush the whole over with a little milk, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. The pie may be made richer by mixing a raw egg with the other ingredients before placing them on the paste. Beefsteak Pie.—Required: Flaky or short crust; ^ lb. lean meat; % oz. flour; 1 >4 gills water; 1 table- spoonful ketchup; >4 teaspoonful salt; ^ teaspoonful pepper. Cut the meat into very thin pieces; mix the flour, pepper and salt on a plate; dip each piece into this mixture. Roll them up lightly; place them in a small pie dish; add the water and the ketchup; wet the edge of the dish. Place the pastry over the pie; cut it off close to the pie dish; remove it, and from the pieces cut off, cut some strips. Lay these along the wet edge of the dish; wet the top of them with cold water; lay on them the large piece of pastry; press down the edge. Make a hole in the centre to allow a hurtful steam, caused by the meat cooking inside, to escape; roll out the scraps of paste left over, and cut out a fringe. Roll this up and place in the hole; brush over the paste with a little milk; place in a hot part of the oven for five minutes, thenPASTRY. 107 bake in a cooler part for three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Sheep’s Head Pie.—Required: Short crust; 1 sheep’s head; y lb. bacon; an egg; 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley; l/2 pint pot liquor; y tea- spoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Soak the head all night in salt and water; wash thoroughly in warm water, removing the soft bones from the nostrils. Boil with sufficient water to cover it, till it is quite tender (about three hours). Place the egg in hot water, boil for ten minutes; plunge the egg in cold water. Remove the shell and cut up into small pieces. Cut the meat, gristle, and bacon into small pieces, and put them, with the egg, parsley, pepper, salt, and half a pint of the liquor the head has been boiled in, into a pie dish; cover with paste as in last recipe, and bake as directed. Generally eaten cold. Use the rest of the liquor for soup. Sausage Rolls.—Required: Short paste (the quantities given at page 103); 2 oz. scraps of meat; V\ teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. (.lit the paste into four oblong squares; chop the meat, mix it with the salt and pepper. Divide it into four; place one portion on each square. Wet the edges of the squares; fold one side of the paste over the meat, then the other side ; press down and mark with the back of a knife at the two ends and along the top. Place on a greased baking tin and bake in the oven for about half an hour. Oatmeal Pie Crust.—Required: y lb. oatmeal; about 1 gill hot water; 1 pinch salt. Stir the ingredients well together; roll out on a board to the thickness required. Fill the pie dish with cooked meat and vegetables, adding a littleio8 PASTRY. flavouring and a little water or stock. Cover with the crust; brush it over with milk; place in the oven and bake for about a quarter of an hour till the crust is cooked. Suet Paste.—Required: y lb. flour; 2 oz. suet; about y2 gill of water; y teaspoonful salt; y tea- spoonful baking-powder. Mince the suet very finely, removing all fibres and pieces of skin ; mix it thoroughly in a basin with the flour, baking-powder, and salt, till it is like fine bread- crumbs. Add enough water to make it a stiff paste, work together and turn out of the basin neatly in one lump on to a floured board. Flour the rolling pin, roll out the paste once to the thickness required. Suet paste may be made lighter by using 2 oz. stale bread-crumbs and 2 oz. flour instead of 4 oz. flour. Boiled Beefsteak Pudding.—Required: suet paste; 1 lb. stewing beef cut thin; y2 oz. flour; about 1 gill of water; y2 oz dripping ; y2 teaspoonful salt; y2 teaspoonful pepper. Grease a pudding bowl (one with a rim preferred); cut off a piece of paste large enough to cover the bowl. Roll out the other piece; line the bowl with it, cutting off the edges with a sharp knife dipped in flour. Cut the meat into neat stripes; mix the flour, salt and pepper on a plate, dip each piece of meat into this; roll up and place in the lined bowl. Pour in as much cold water as you can without running over the bowl. Wet the edges of the lining paste with water; roll out the piece of paste left for the lid to a round shape ; place on the basin ; press its edges against the edges of the lining; trim the edges with a knife. Dip the pudding cloth in boiling water; flour the centre of it; tie over the top of the basin. Tie the two opposite corners of the cloth together overPASTRY. 109 the bowl so as to make a handle. Have ready a large pan of sufficient boiling water to cover the pudding, with y?, teaspoonful of salt in it. Place the pudding in this; boil for 2 to 2]/2 hours. When ready lift the bowl on to a plate and let it stand for 2 minutes. Remove the cloth carefully, as it is apt to stick to the top of the pudding. Reverse the bowl on a dish, and lift the basin slowly off it. Serve hot. This pudding may be varied by adding two onions skinned, scalded and chopped; or sliced parboiled potatoes. Apple Pudding.—Required: suet paste; about 2 lbs. apples; 2 oz. sugar. Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; cut them into slices. Prepare and cook this pudding in the same way as in the preceding recipe, adding the apples and sugar instead of meat, pepper, and salt. Apple Dumplings.—Required: suet paste; 3 apples ; 1 oz. sugar. Pare and core the apples, but do not divide them ; fill up the hole with sugar. Divide the paste into three pieces ; work each piece into a smooth ball; place an apple on the top of one piece ; work the paste up round it until the apple is covered. Do the same with the other apples and piece of paste. Place the dumplings in boiling water; boil for half to three- quarters of an hour, till apple and paste are thoroughly cooked. Roly Poly.-— Required: suet paste ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of jam, treacle,1 or marmalade. Prepare the suet paste as above ; roll it out to an oblong square. Wet the edges with water ; spread the jam over the paste, keeping it back from the edges ; roll it up, p essing the edges well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, flour it well; Mix two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs with the treacle, as it becomes thin in boiling, and apt to run out.I IO MILK PUDDINGS. roll the pudding in it; tie the ends to the pudding— not quite close, as it swells a little. Have ready a large pan of boiling water with half a teaspoonful salt in it. Place the pudding in this and boil for twc hours. It is a good plan to put a saucer or plate in the bottom of the pan to prevent the pudding from sticking. Baked Roly Poly.—Prepare as in the last recipe, but instead of tying it in a cloth and boiling it, place it on a greased baking tin and bake for about three quarters of an hour. Meat Roly Poly.—Required: suet paste; % lb. thinly cut uncooked corned beef; i chopped parboiled onion ; % teaspoonful pepper. Prepare as in last recipe, using the beef sprinkled over with the onion and pepper instead of jam. Bacon may be used instead of corned beef and onion, but as it is fat, only oz. suet should be used for the paste. Goblet Pie.—Required: short crust; 2 oz. scraps of meat, cooked or uncooked ; 2 oz. chopped apples; 2 oz. raisins; 2 oz. currants; 2 oz. sugar; 2 oz. suet; about 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Clean and stone the raisins; clean the currants; pare, core, and chop the apples (they must weigh two ounce after chopping). Chop the suet very finely, removing all pieces of skin or fibre ; chop the meat finely. Mix all the ingredients well together; place in a pie dish ; cover, as directed for fruit tart, with short crust. XIX.—MILK PUDDINGS. Proportion of Grain to Milk.—Use il/2 oz. grain to 1 pint milk if for a puddiug. Use 2 oz. grain to 1 pint milk if for a shap~:. An egg is included in the ingredients of most of the following puddings; but baked rice, macaroni, tapioca,MILK PUDDINGS. 111 sago, barley, and semolina puddings may all be made without eggs. In this case the pudding must be longer simmered so as to thicken the mixture; and in macaroni the milk should be thickened with y2 oz. flour. It is best to add the yolk and the white of the egg separately. Beat the yolk and put it into the pudding; then whisk the white and add it. If, however, there is not time to separate them they may be beaten together and added to the pudding. A mixture should always be allowed to cool before an egg is added to it, as great heat makes the egg curdle. If cooked too long the egg loses part of its nutritive quality. When a pudding is cooked with the heat coming from below, as is generally the case in an oven, the dish should be greased to prevent the pudding sticking to it; when the heat comes from above, as when a pudding is cooked before the fire, it is unnecessary to grease the dish. A steamed pudding is ready, if, when you press your finger on it, no mark is left. Rice Pudding without Eggs.—Required: y oz. whole rice; i oz. shred suet, dripping, or butter; oz. sugar: y pint skim milk; i pinch seasoning (nutmeg, ground ginger, cinnamon, or allspice). Wash the rice. Place half of the shred suet in a pie dish ; place the rice, sugar, and seasoning over it; pour in the milk, put the rest of the shred suet on the top. Place in a slow oven and bake for about an hour. If the milk dries up too much add a little more. Rice Pudding.—Required: y oz. whole rice; y2 oz. sugar; i egg; y2 pint milk; i pinch of nutmeg or cinnamon.! 12 MILK PUDDINGS. Wash the rice ; put it into a pan with plenty of cold water; bring to the boil; pour off the water. Add the milk and sugar to the rice; simmer till the rice is quite soft, about one quarter of an hour, break the egg into a small pie dish ; beat it well with a fork. Let the rice and milk cool a little and then pour into the pie dish, mixing well with the egg. Bake in an oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Steamed Rice Pudding.—Prepare in the same way as in the last recipe, as far as “ simmer the rice till quite soft.” Then draw the pan to one side of the fire ; when a little cooled, stir in the yolk of the egg; whisk the white on a dry plate with a knife; when stiff, stir it lightly into the pudding. Grease a mould or basin, pour the mixture into it; cover tightly with a greased paper ; steam for about half an hour. Raised Rice Pudding.— Reqiiired: ij^oz.whole rice ; about i oz. bread crumbs; 2 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar; 2 oz. butter; 1 pint milk ; 1 inch stick cinnamon ; a pinch of salt. Wash the rice well, put it on the fire with enough cold water to cover it, and bring it slowly to the boil. When the water is absorbed, add the milk and season- ing. Simmer till soft, then remove the cinnamon. Put the rice into a basin, add the sugar, stir in the butter, and let it cool. Break the eggs, separate the yolks from the whites. Add the yolks, unwhisked, to the rice, one at a time, stirring constantly. Grease well a small cake tin, put in the crumbs, cover with a plate, and shake well till the crumbs adhere to the tin. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the pudding just before putting it into the tin. Bake in a hot oven from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. It should be brown when turned out, and may be eaten hot113 MILK PUDDINGS. or cold, and served with stewed fruit or with any sweet sauce. Rice Shape.—Required: 1 oz.-whole or ground rice; pint milk; r oz. of sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. If whole rice is used, wash it. Put the rice into a small pan with the milk, seasoning, and sugar; simmer until the rice is thoroughly soft and the mixture thickens. Let a china or tin mould stand filled with water for a few minutes; pour away the water; do not dry the mould; pour in the mixture, and let it stand till quite cold. Turn out on a dish, and serve with stewed fruit, treacle, or jam. Macaroni Pudding.—Required: % lb. macaroni; 2 oz. soft sugar; 1 egg; oz. butter or dripping; 1 pint milk ; 1 pinch seasoning; 2 quarts hot water. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of hot water; boil it uncovered for twenty minutes; pour away the water; add the milk and sugar. Simmer very slowly for about a quarter of an hour, till the macaroni is quite tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool the mixture a little. Break the egg into a cup, beat it slightly with a fork ; stir in with the macaroni, milk, and seasoning. Pour into a greased pie dish, and bake till it is a golden colour in the oven or before the fire. Tapioca Pudding.—Required: 1 oz. tapioca; 1 egg‘> Vi pint cold milk; 1 gill cold water; ^ oz. butter or dripping; oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. Put the tapioca into a basin, and cover it with ttie water. Let the tapioca soak till it has absorbed all the water (about an hour). Add the milk, sugar, and seasoning, bring to the boil and simmer till quite soft and clear (about half an hour); draw to the side of the fire to let it cool a little; break the egg, and beat slightly114 MILK PUDDINGS. with a fork ; mix well with the tapioca. Pour into a greased dish, and bake in a moderate oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Serve either hot or cold. Sago Pudding.—Prepare and cook in the same way as tapioca pudding, using sago instead of tapioca. Barley Pudding.—Required: i/A oz. barley; 1 egg 1 milk ; y2 oz. soft sugar. Wash the barley; let it soak all night in cold water. Put it into a pan with the milk and sugar; simmer till quite soft, from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Break the egg and beat it slightly with a fork in a pie dish ; add the barley and milk, stir- ring well together; brown in an oven or before the fire. Semolina Pudding.—Required: y oz. of semo- lina ; 1 egg; ^ pint cold milk; y2 oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. Put the semolina into a small saucepan and cover it with the milk. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer till quite soft (about ten minutes), stirring all the time. Remove the pan from the fire, and allow the mixture to cool a little. Put the semolina into a basin, add the sugar and flavouring, and mix well. Break the egg, separate the yolk from the white; add the yolk to the semolina, stir well. Beat up the white to a stiff froth, mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingre- dients; pour into a pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Ground Barley Pudding.—Prepare and cook in the same way as semolina pudding, using ground barley instead of semolina. Steamed Semolina Pudding.—Required: 1 oz. semolina; 1 egg; 1 oz. butter or dripping; y2 pint milk; 1 oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning.MILK PUDDINGS. *T5 Bring the semolina and milk slowly to the boil in a small saucepan, and simmer till soft. Pour the mix- ture into a basin, add the sugar, and allow it to cool a little. Beat the yolk of egg slightly with a fork, and mix it with the semolina (when cool); add the flavouring; grease thoroughly a basin or tin mould (a plain one is best); pour in the mixture. Grease a double piece of kitchen paper, and twist it over the top of the basin or mould, and steam slowly for half an hour, adding boiling water if the water boils away. If a basin is used, steam for three quarters of an hour. Bread Pudding.—Required: 2 oz. stale bread- crumbs ; 1 egg; y2 pint milk; 1 pinch of nutmeg or cinnamon; ]/2 oz. sugar. Put the bread-crumbs, milk, sugar, and seasoning into a stewpan; simmer for about five minutes; draw the pan to the side of the fire, to allow the mixture to cool a little. Break the egg into a small pie-dish; beat it well with a fork ; pour the milk and bread in, mixing well with the egg. Bake in an oven or before the fire till it is a golden brown colour. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Required-, y lb. stale bread; 1 oz. butter; 1 egg; 1 oz. currants; 1 oz. sugar; y2 pint milk. Cut the bread into thin slices; butter it; cleanse the currants. Put a layer of the buttered bread into a pie-dish; sprinkle over it a few currants ; repeat this till the bread and currants are all in. Break the egg into a basin, add the sugar, and beat with a fork till well mixed and light; add the milk to the egg gradu- ally, stirring all the time. Pour this mixture slowly over the bread, so as to allow it to soak into the bread. Bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour.116 MILK PUDDINGS. This pudding may be made with dripping instead of butter, and the egg may be omitted. Potato Pudding.—Required: i lb. potatoes; 2 eggs; 2 oz. sugar; i lemon; 2 oz. butter or drip- ping ; 1 pinch of salt. Rub the potatoes (previously boiled), while hot, through a sieve; melt the butter or dripping, add it to them, and let the mixture cool. Break the eggs,, separate the yolks from the whites. Whisk the yolks, grate the lemon rind, add these, the juice and the sugar; mix these well with the potatoes. J ust before baking, add the salt to the whites, whisk to a stiff froth, and add lightly to the mixture. Put all into a greased tin, bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour, and then turn out on a dish. Serve, very hot. Shape of Corn-Flour.—Required: 1 oz. conn flour; oz. sugar ; pint milk. Break the corn-flour in a basin with a little of the cold milk. Place the rest of the milk with the sugar: in a pan on the fire; bring it nearly but not quite to the boil; pour the corn-flour and cold milk into it, and let it boil for five minutes after it thickens, stirring- all the time. Have a basin or mould standing filled, with cold water ; pour away the water, but do not dry the mould. Pour the corn-flour into this shape, let it become cold, and turn it out on a dish. It can be eaten either with stewed fruit, jam, treacle, or cold milk. Custard Pudding.—Required: 2 yolks and 1 white of egg ; 1 dessertspoonful sugar ; pint milk ; pinch grated nutmeg or other seasoning. Beat the eggs and sugar slightly with a fork. Add the milk, stir well and strain it into a buttered pie- dish. Sprinkle a little nutmeg on the top. PlaceMILK PUDDINGS. 117 the pie-dish in a tin in which is a little water, to help to prevent curdling of the custard. Bake it in a slow oven about 40 minutes till firm and slightly browned. Sprinkle it with a little sugar and serve. If liked the custard may be put into a greased bowl and steamed. Yorkshire Pudding.—Required: lb. flour; 1 egg; pint of milk ; % teaspoonful salt. Place the flour and salt in a basin; break the egg into a teacup, beat it well with a fork, pour it into the flour. Mix thoroughly together with a wooden spoon ; add the milk very gradually, beating the batter all the time. The batter is sufficiently beaten when bells of air rise. Grease a baking-tin, pour the batter in, and bake in rather a quick oven for half an hour. Cut into square pieces, and serve with roast beef. The batter is improved by being allowed to stand in the basin for two hours before it is baked. Stir well before pouring it into the tin. To make the pudding richer add a second egg. Hasty Pudding.—Prepare as in the last recipe, but use 1 dessert-spoonful sugar instead of salt. Pour the batter into greased cups, and steam for half an hour. Black Cap Pudding.—Prepare in the same way as Hasty Pudding, adding 1 oz. of well-cleansed currants. XX.—BOILED & MISCELLANEOUS PUDDINGS. Suet Dumpling.—Required: y lb. flonr ; 2 oz. suet; about 1 gill of cold water; 1 oz. sugar; % tea- spoonful baking powder ; % teaspoonful salt. Chop the suet finely, removing all pieces of skin and fibre; mix thoroughly in a basin with all the otherBOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 118 dry ingredients. Add enough of water to moisten it, and stir well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring, dredge with flour, tie the pudding in it, • leaving room for it to swell, put into boiling water and boil for two hours, or longer if convenient. Should the dumpling be wanted richer, milk may be used instead of water, and an egg added. If an egg. is added only half the quantity of milk or water is required. If it is to be eaten with meat omit the sugar. This dumpling is lighter, and only requires one and a half hours to boil, when made with 2 oz. stale bread crumb and 2 oz. flour, instead of ]/L{ lb. flour. Lemon Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of the grated rind and the juice of half a lemon. Currant Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of 2 oz. currants carefully picked and cleaned, and y teaspoonful mixed spice or grated nutmeg. Carrot Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of one small or half a large carrot,. cleaned, scraped, and grated; and y2 teaspoonful ground ginger; also 2 oz. stale bread crumbs. Apple Dumpling.—The same as suet dump- ling, with the addition of 2 medium-sized apples, pared, cored, and minced; also 2 oz. stale bread crumbs. Curry Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling (omitting the sugar), with the addition of teaspoonful curry, which should be mixed with the dry ingredients before the water is added. Suet dumpling may thus be varied to any extent, according to the materials at the disposal of the cookBOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 119 Flour and Dripping Dumplings.—Required: 5 oz. flour; 1 teacupful clarified fat; 1 teacupful cold water; 1 oz. of sugar; y2 teaspoonful salt. Put the flour in a basin with the salt and sugar. Put the fat and water into a saucepan, and when boiling pour quickly on the flour, stirring with an iron spoon. Flour your hands and make the paste up quickly into small balls while hot; let them cool; then put them into a pan of boiling water one at a time, so as not to cool the water, and boil for about twenty minutes. When they float on the surface they are ready; serve hot. They may be eaten with treacle, stewed fruit, sugar, or milk. These dumplings may be cooked in sweet or buttermilk, to which 1 inch of cinnamon stick may be added. Norfolk Dumplings.—Required: y lb. flour; y2 teaspoonful baking powder; about 1 gill cold water ; y2 teaspoonful salt. Place the flour, baking powder and salt in a basin; stir in the water gradually till a stiff paste is formed. Roll into small balls about the size of an egg, boil with meat, or place in boiling water with y teaspoonful salt in it, taking care that the dump- lings do not stick to the pa!n. Boil for about twenty minutes. Serve with boiled salt beef; or as a pudding, with treacle. Dough Dumplings.—Required: a piece of dough left over from bread baking. Roll the dough into balls about the size of an egg; place them in boiling water, and boil for about half an hour. Serve with treacle or melted butter. Plain Plum Pudding.—-Required: 3 oz. bread crumbs; 2 oz. flour; 2 oz. suet; 2 oz. raisins; 2 oz. currants; y oz. peel; 1 small apple ; 1 oz. moist sugar; pinch mixed spice; y2 teaspoonful baking powder ; 1 egg; y2 gill milk,BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 120 Mince the suet very finely, removing all pieces o skin and fibre; mix it with the flour and breac crumbs. Clean the currants ; pick the stalks off the currants and raisins; remove the candied sugar frorr the peel; shred the peel finely. • Pare, divide, core and mince an apple ; mix the dry ingredients wel together. Break the egg into a cup, beat it with u fork ; add the milk to it, and pour this gradually among the dry ingredients, stirring well. If too dry. add a little more milk. Grease a pudding basin well place the mixture in it, allowing a little room for the bread and flour to swell. Dip a pudding cloth ir boiling water ; wring it out and flour it; tie it lightly over the top of the basin. Have a large pan ready with enough boiling water in it to cover the pudding place the pudding in it and boil for three hours.. When ready, let it stand for two minutes before turn- ing it out on a dish. Serve hot with sweet sauce or melted butter. Lemon Pudding. — Required: 2 oz. ground rice; 2 oz. stale bread crumbs; 2 oz. finely minced suet; teaspoonful baking powder; 1 lemon % oz. candied lemon peel; about 1 gill milk; 1 oz. sugar. Mix the rice, crumbs, suet and sugar together in a basin; remove the sugar from the peel; chop the peel finely and put it in the basin. Grate the outer rind of the lemon into the basin ; roll the lemon tc make it soft; cut it in two and squeeze the juice intc the basin, keeping back the pips. Stir these in- gredients well together ; add gradually enough milk tc make a stiff mixture. Place it in a well greased tin, shape, or pudding bowl; cover tightly with a greased paper; steam for two hours; turn out, serve with sweet sauce.BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 121 This pudding may be made richer by adding an egg to it, in which case less milk is required. Marmalade Pudding.—Prepare and cook as in the last recipe, using 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade instead of a lemon. Wakefield Pudding .—Required: x/2 lb. stale bread cut very thin; 1 lb. fruit (apples, rhubarb, green goose- berries, &c.); % lb. sugar. Stew the fruit with the sugar till it is cooked. Put a layer of bread in a pie dish, then a layer of fruit and juice, then bread, &c., till all is in. Serve hot or cold. Custard sauce may be served with this pudding. Fig Pudding.—Required: ^ lb. figs; 3 oz. flour; 3 oz. bread crumbs ; 3 oz. chopped suet; 2 oz. moist sugar; 1 apple; J4 teaspoonful baking powder; 1 egg ; about 1 gill milk. Wash the figs well in hot water; dry them, remove the stalks and chop them finely. Pare, divide, core, and mince the apple. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, and add the figs and apples. Beat the egg in a small bowl, add the milk to it, and pour into the middle of the dry ingredients, mixing all well together. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding-bowl, leaving room for it to swell. Cover it with greased paper; place it in a saucepan of boiling water and steam for 1^ to 2 hours. When ready turn on to a hot dish and serve with sweet sauce. Treacle Pudding.—Required: 4 oz flour; 2 oz. bread crumbs; 3 oz. suet; 2 small tablespoonfuls treacle ; 2 small tablespoonfuls moist sugar; tea- spoonful baking soda ; ^ teaspoonful ground ginger ; 1 egg; about 1 gill buttermilk. Shred and chop the suet and mix it with all the other dry ingredients. Beat the egg in a bowl, add to it the milk and mix these with the treacle. Pour this1 22 BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. into the centre of the dry ingredients and beat all well together. The mixture should drop rather easily from the spoon. Steam and serve as for Fig Pudding. Turn out and pour sweet sauce round. Rice and Apple Pudding.—Required: i large apple; 2 oz. rice; x/2 oz. dripping or shred suet; 1 pint of water or milk; 1 inch stick cinnamon; 1 oz. sugar. Wash the rice; pare, core and chop the apple. Put the rice on with enough cold water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil. When the water is all absorbed add the pint of cold water, apples, and cinna- mon. Stew for half an hour with the cover on, stirring occasionally. Then add the sugar, take out the cinna- mon, put the mixture into a greased pie dish, and put the shred suet or small pieces of dripping on the top. Place in the oven or before the fire till brown. This pudding is improved by having a small piece of lemon rind cooked with it and removed with the cinnamon. Bird’s Nest Pudding.—Required: y lb. tapioca; 4 apples; about 1 y2 pints water ; 1 oz. sugar. Pare and core four apples; fill the holes with sugar. Soak the tapioca or sago in water for an hour ; then bring to the boil and boil for five minutes. Grease a pudding dish, put the apples in, and the tapioca round them; bake in the oven till ready, about half to three quarters of an hour. Lemon Sponge.—Required: 1 lemon; 1 white of egg; y oz. gelatine; 1 oz. sugar; 1 gill cold water. Put the juice of the lemon with half the rind (not the white) of one in the cold water with the soaked gelatine and sugar. Stir and melt all together over the fire, but do not allow it to boil. While this is preparing, break the egg and separate the yolk from the white.BOILED. ETC. PUDDINGS. 123 Beat up the white to a stiff froth ; draw the gelatine, &c., aside from the lire and let it cool a little; then add gradually to the stiff egg froth. Beat all together until quite stiff; this generally takes from twenty to thirty minutes. Dip a tin or china mould in cold water, then fill with the mixture, which should stand at least half an hour before being used. If preferred, this may be made with oranges. The gelatine melts more quickly if it is previously soaked in the cold water for an hour. Plain Swiss Roll.—Required: 1 egg; 3 oz. flour; 1 oz. castor sugar; 1 oz. butter; teaspoon- ful baking powder. Line a flat tin with well-greased paper. Beat the butter and sugar together, till of a creamy consistency. Add a little flour, half the beaten egg and more flour. Beat this very well, then add the rest of the egg and the flour in the same way, mixing the baking-powder with the last spoonful of flour. If necessary add a little milk to make the mixture of a consistency to drop easily from the spoon. Spread it evenly over the prepared tin and bake it in a quick oven till it is a light brown colour and feels firm to the touch. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with sugar, turn out the cake and quickly spread it with warm jam, then roll it up carefully. Note.—This mixture may also be used for sand- wich cake, or for the centre of cheese-cakes. Poor Knight’s Pudding.—Required: 2 thick slices of bread ; 1 egg : 1 teaspoonful sugar ; pinch of cinnamon; teacup of milk, dripping for frying. Beat the egg with the sugar and cinnamon and add the milk. Remove the crusts from the bread, cut it in neat fingers and soak thoroughly in the egg and milk. Make the dripping hot in a frying-pan, care-124 EGGS. fully put in the pieces of bread and fry till a golden brown colour on both sides. Lift it on to kitchen paper to drain off the fat. Dish on a hot ashet and sprinkle with sugar, and if liked a little more cinnamon. Note.—To make this pudding more economically an ounce of flour may be used instead of the eg". Railway Pudding.—Required: 2 teacups flour ; 1 small teacup castor sugar; butter size of an egg; 2 eggs ; small teaspoonful baking powder, jam. Beat the eggs and sugar with a wooden spoon till they are creamy. Mix the flour and baking powder in a dry bowl and rub in the butter till like bread crumbs. Add this by degrees to the eggs and sugar. Beat well, and, if necessary, add a little milk to make the mixture of a consistency to drop easily from the spoon. Pour this into a well greased tin and bake in a hot oven about ^ hour till firm to the touch. Turn it out, and when cold, split it open and spread with jam. Dredge the top with castor sugar and cut it into fingers. XXI.—EGGS. To Boil an Egg.—Place an egg gently with a spoon in water almost, but not quite, boiling. Let it simmer steadily for three and a half minutes. A small egg is sufficiently cooked in three minutes; a new laid egg takes four minutes. To Hard Boil an Egg.—Place the egg gently with a spoon in water almost, but not quite, boiling. Let it simmer for ten minutes; dip it into cold water, to prevent the white discolouring. When required, remove the shell.EGGS. 125 Poached Eggs.—Required: 1 egg; boiling water, i teaspoonful of vinegar to 1 pint of hot water; 1 round of toast. Add the vinegar to the water; break the egg into a. cup; slip it gently from the cup into the pan of sim- mering water. Simmer for about three minutes; lift out of the pan with a pierced fish slice; place the egg on a half round of toast; serve hot. Baked Eggs.—Required: 1 egg; oz. butter. Place the butter in a very small baking tin; melt it; break the egg into a cup; slip it from the cup into the tin; place the tin in the oven for three minutes, when the egg will be cooked. Rummeled Eggs.—Required: 1 egg; 1 slice of buttered toast; 1 dessert spoonful milk; l/2 oz. butter; 1 pinch of salt. Melt the butter in a small frying pan; break the egg into it; add the milk and salt; stir constantly one way till the egg becomes thick like butter, but not hard; spread it over the buttered toast; serve very hot. Omelet.—Required: 2 eggs; ^ oz. butter; 1 tea- spoonful soft sugar; 1 small pinch of salt. Break the eggs ; separate the yolks from the whites; add the sugar to the yolks; stir in a basin till they are thick and creamy (about ten minutes). Place the whites with the salt on a dry plate; with a dry sharp knife whisk them in a cool place till they become a stiff froth; mix this gradually in among the yolks, tak- ing care not to beat down the froth. In the meantime let the butter melt, but not discolour, in an omelet pan; pour the mixture into the pan; cook it on the tire till it sets (about two minutes); then place it in the oven to allow it to rise and brown. If there is no oven, hold it before the fire. Turn it out, double it over and serve immediately.126 EGGS. The omelet will be larger and lighter if a third white can be allowed to the two yolks. A savoury omelet may be made by adding half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs or chopped parsley to the yolks instead of sugar. An omelet pan should not be washed; it should be scraped and dry rubbed. Pancakes.—Required: 2 oz. flour; 1 egg; 2 oz. clarified fat; 1 gill milk ; 2 oz. sugar ; 1 small pinch of salt. Put the flour and salt in a basin ; add the egg and stir well with a wooden spoon ; then pour in the mil^ gradually, stirring all the time, being careful to have no lumps in the batter. Put two and a half table- spoonfuls of the batter in a cup ; melt a fourth of the fat in a small frying pan. When hot pour in the batter from the cup, holding the pan so that the batter should cover the whole of it. Let the pancake set, then with a knife see that it does not stick anywhere. Shake it a little and either toss it over or turn with a long thin knife. When a golden brown on both sides put it on a plate, dredge with sugar, fold the pancake in three, or roll it up and dredge again with sugar. Serve very hot. The above quantities will make about four pancakes. When time permits prepare the batter some hours before, as it is improved by standing. If preferred, pancakes may be made a little lighter by adding only the yolk at first to the flour, &c.; then add the milk as directed Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, just before the pancakes are to be cooked, and add lightly. A few drops of lemon juice squeezed over each pancake is a great improvement. Snow Eggs.—Required: 1 egg; 1 ^2 gills of milk; ^ inch stick cinnamon ; 1 heaped teaspoonful sugar.127 SAUCES. Break the egg; separate the yolk from the white. Put the milk, cinnamon, and sugar into a small pan (enamelled preferred). While this is coming to the boil beat the white with a knife on a dry plate to a very stiff froth. Dip a tablespoon in cold water, scoop out the froth in spoonfuls and drop into the boiling milk ; boil slowly for three minutes, turn the froth over, and cook the other side for three minutes. Put this snow on a cloth to drain. Stir the yolk in a cup with a spoon until it is creamy ; add gradually the milk slightly cooled ; remove the cinnamon. Put the milk and egg back into the saucepan, and stir always one way over a slow fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour this custard into a shallow dish and when cold place the snow upon it. XXII.—SAUCES. Proportions for Sauces.—For a Pouring Sauce use y2 oz. butter and ]/2 oz. flour to y2 pint liquid. For a Coating Sauce use y oz. butter and y oz. flour to y2 pint liquid. Melted Butter.—Required: y2 oz. flour; 1 oz. butter; y2 pint cold water ; 1 pinch of salt. Put the butter into a small saucepan, melt it, then draw the Panto the side of the fire ; add the flour gradually and mix both with the back of a wooden spoon ; add very gradually the water and salt, stirring continually to prevent lumps. Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, then boil it for three minutes. If the melted butter is wanted for fish, some of the liquor the fish has been boiled in may be used instead of water. A richer sauce may be made by using oz. or 2 oz. of butter to 1 of flour. Cheap Melted Butter.—Required: y2 oz. flour; y oz. dripping; y oz. butter; ^ pint cold water; 1 pinch of salt. £128 SAUCES. Put the dripping into a small saucepan, melt it, then draw the pan to the side of the fire ; add the flour and mix well with the back of a wooden spoon. Add very gradually the water and salt, stirring con- tinually till there are no lumps. Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, boil it for three minutes, take it off the fire and stir in the butter. White Sauce.—Prepare in the same way as melted butter, but use milk instead of water. Parsley Sauce.—Required: melted butter; i teaspoonful chopped parsley. Wash the parsley, wring it dry in a cloth, pick it carefully off the stalks, chop small and stir into the melted butter. Caper Sauce.— Required: melted butter; i dessert spoonful capers. Add the capers to the melted butter. Onion Sauce.—Required: melted butter; i large or 2 small onions; i pinch pepper. Skin and boil the onions until soft; mince small; stir in with the pepper to the melted butter. This sauce should be quite thick. It is more delicate if the onions are rubbed smooth with the back of a spoon before adding them to the melted butter. Egg Sauce.—Required: melted butter; i hard boiled egg. . . Put the egg into boiling water, boil ten minutes, then dip it into cold water to preserve the colour Take off the shell; mince the yolk and white and add it to the melted butter. Sweet White Sauce.—Prepare in the same way as melted butter, but use milk instead of water, and a teaspoonful of sugar instead of salt, may be flavoured with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon juice.129 SAUCES. Plain White Sauce.—Required: y2 oz. flour; ]/2 pint milk; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the flour gradually with the milk. Stir over the fire till it boils, add the sugar; boil for three minutes. Arrowroot Sauce.—Required: y oz. arrow- root ; y2 pint water; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the arrowroot with the water; stir over the fire till it boils; add the sugar; boil three minutes. A few drops of lemon juice or other flavouring may be added. Cornflour may be used instead of arrow- root. If the sauce is wanted red, add three drops of cochineal. Treacle Sauce. —Required: Cheap melted butter; 1 tablespoonful syrup. Stir in the syrup (but do not boil) before the melted butter is removed from the fire. Custard Sauce.—Required: 1 yolk egg; y pint of milk ; 1 teaspoonful cornflour; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the cornflour with a little cold milk. Heat the rest of the milk in a small rinsed pan, and pour it over the cornflour, stirring carefully. Rinse the pan again and return the mixture, stir and boil it for 3 or 4 minutes. Take it from the fire; add the sugar, then quickly beat in the yolk of egg. Stir it over a gentle heat till the yolk cooks and thickens, being very careful to avoid curdling. Bread Sauce.—Required: 1 large teacupful of bread crumbs ; y2 oz. of butter; y2 pint boiling milk; 1 pinch of salt. Boil the milk in a small saucepan, and when quite boiling put in the bread crumbs with the butter and salt; stir over a slow fire for about ten minutes. An onion (boiled and chopped) is a good addition. Mint Sauce.—Required: 1 dessertspoonful finelyBREAD, ETC. 130 chopped fresh mint; i dessert spoonful brown sugar ; gill vinegar; y2 gill hot water. Mix the sugar and hot water, let it cool; add the vinegar and chopped mint. Serve cold. Mustard Relish.—Required: i dessert spoonful sugar; x/2 teaspoonful made mustard; 2 dessert spoonfuls vinegar. Mix the sugar and mustard smoothly together, then add the vinegar gradually, stirring till smooth. Salad Sauce.—Required: 1 hard boiled egg; 2 tablespoonfuls oil; 1 tablespoonful vinegar; y2 tea- spoonful made mustard ; y teaspoonful sugar; y tea- spoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Take the white from the yolk of the hard-boiled egg; rub the yolk, sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard smoothly together; stir in the oil gradually; then stir in the vinegar gradually. Chop the white into small pieces ; sprinkle it over the salad. Cream or milk may be used instead of oil. XXIII.—BREAD, ETC. Bread.—Required: 3^ lbs. flour; 1 oz. German yeast; 1 heaped teaspoonful salt; r quart tepid water. Put the yeast into a basin and add gradually the water, stirring with a wooden spoon. Put 2 y lbs. flour with the salt into a very large basin; make a hole in the middle of the flour; add the yeast and water slowly, mixing with your hands in gradually enlarging circles, till all the flour is taken in. Beat the dough thoroughly for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place for two hours. Put the remaining flour on a board, turn out the dough upon it and knead, taking it from the sidesBREAD, ETC. I3i towards the middle, till it no longer sticks to your hands, and feels quite elastic. This quantity makes two loaves. If cottage loaves are wanted, form a large ball and place it on a floured tin; then place a smaller ball on the top of the large one, and make a small hole or mark on the top. If moulds are used, flour them and half fill them with the dough. Cover the loaves and let them rise for about twenty minutes in a warm place, then bake in a hot oven for about two hours. Turn the loaves out of the moulds, or remove them from the tin, and slant them against a dish or board to allow the steam to escape. The above are general directions ; certain flours (generally the best) absorb more water than others, and the pupil must learn by experience the proper consistency of the dough. If brewer’s yeast is used, the dough may stand all night in a warm place. Milk Rolls.— Required: y lb. flour; 1 oz. salt butter; about y2 gill of milk ; y2 teaspoonful baking powder. Rub the flour and butter lightly together with the tips of the fingers. Add the baking powder; gradually stir in enough milk to make it a stiff dough. Take rough lumps and place them on a floured flat tin. Bake in a quick oven till ready, about twenty minutes; place on a sieve to cool. This makes about four rolls. If preferred, the dough may be rolled into small oval shapes, and brushed with milk, or with a slightly beaten egg, to give them a glazed appearance. These rolls must be made as quickly as possible in order to be light. Sally Luns.—Required: y lbs. flour; 2 oz. salt butter; 1 egg; i]/2 gill milk; y2 oz. German yeast (or 1 tablespoonful brewer’s yeast); y2 oz. dripping or butter (for greasing); y2 teaspoonful sugar.BREAD, ETC T32 Warm the milk and butter in a pan together till the butter is melted, but not hot Rub the yeast smooth with teaspoonful sugar; add the milk and butter. Stir this mixture gradually into the flour; add the egg slightly beaten; mix till quite smooth. Divide into two and put into well greased tins; set these in a warm but not too hot place for an hour to rise. Then put into a quick oven till baked, about fifteen minutes. Oatcakes.—Required: 4 oz. fine oatmeal; 1 tea- spoonful dripping (preferably bacon); pinch baking soda ; pinch salt; hot water. Mix the oatmeal, soda, and salt. Make a well in the centre of these ingredients, add the dripping (melted) and enough hot water to make a soft mixture. Rub plenty dry oatmeal into the baking-board, turn out the mixture, form it into a smooth ball and roll out as thinly as possible. Frequently rub in dry oat- meal to make the cakes white. Cut the round in four or eight pieces and place on a hot girdle to cook. When the cakes begin to curl, place them on a tray in a cool oven or in front of the fire till crisp. Dripping may be used instead of the bacon gravy ; but then the water must be hot. The cakes can be rolled out thinner when made with hot water. Cold Porridge Scones.—Required: cold por- ridge ; oatmeal. Knead as much oatmeal into the cold porridge as it will take up ; roll out with a roller to about half an inch of thickness. Cut into neat pieces, bake on a girdle ; when cooked on one side, turn them. In kneading, you must be careful to take up the oatmeal gradually, as, if it be added too quickly, there will be lumps of dry oatmeal found in the scones. A gird e before using should first be put on the fire till it is very hot; then have it raised up from the fire whileBREAD, ETC. 133 you are baking on it ; this prevents the scones from being burned. Flour may be used instead of oat- meal. Soda Scones.—Required: y2 lb. flour; y2 of a small teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; y2 teaspoonful cream of tartar; nearly y2 pint butter milk ; y2 tea- spoonful salt. Mix the dry materials well together in a basin ; stir in enough butter milk to make a stiff but elastic dough. Turn it out on a floured board, knead it lightly till it no longer sticks to your hands ; roll out thin ; cut it out in small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake them on a tin in a hot oven for about five minutes. When they are risen and the surface is smooth, turn and cook for five minutes longer. They should be a very pale colour. Or put them on a hot girdle and cook first on one side and then on the other, as in the oven. Serve hot or cold. Sugar may be used instead of salt, and they may be made richer by rubbing 1 oz. butter or dripping into the flour before the butter milk is added. Dropped Scones.—Required: y2 lb. flour; small y2 teaspoonful carbonate of soda; small y2 teaspoonful cream of tartar; tablespoonful castor sugar; 1 egg ; buttermilk. Sieve the flour, soda, cream of tartar, and sugar into a dry bowl. Make a well in the centre of these and drop in the egg and a little buttermilk. Beat well together with the back of a wooden spoon to get a smooth paste. Then add enough milk to make it of a thick creamy consistency. Grease a hot girdle, and drop on the mixture in small rounds. When the surface rises in bubbles, turn the scones over with a knife to cook the other side. When ready, cool them on a sieve.BREAD, ETC. i34 Girdle Cakes.—Required: 6 oz. flour; y2 tea- spoonful baking powder ; i teaspoonful sugar ; 2 oz. currants ; 1 oz. dripping or 2 oz. butter ; about 1 gill sweet milk. Cleanse the currants; rub the dripping into the flour lightly with the fingers in a basin; add the sugar, currants, and baking powder ; stir in as much milk as will make a stiff dough. Turn out the dough on a floured board ; knead lightly ; roll out about half an inch thick; cut out into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake on a hot girdle for about ten minutes, turning them when cooked on one side. When done, put them slanting against a plate to pre- vent them becoming sodden. Flour and Water Scones .—Required: y lb. flour ; about y2 gill boiling water; a good pinch of salt. Mix the flour and salt together in a basin ; stir in enough cold water to make a stiff dough ; turn out on a floured board; roll out very thin ; cut into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake on a hot girdle for about five or ten minutes, turning them when cooked on one side. Serve hot. These scones are made lighter by mixing a quarter teaspoonful baking powder with the dry flour. Potato Scones.—Required: y2 lb. cold potatoes ; about 2 oz. flour; about y2 gill sweet milk; a pinch of salt. Mash the potatoes ; add the salt; knead as much flour into them as they will take up, taking care not to allow the flour to go into lumps; add as much milk as will form it into a stiff dough ; roll out very thin on a floured board; cut into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter, prick with a fork. Bake on a hot girdle for about five minutes, turning when half cooked. Serve hot.•35 BREAD, ETC. Plain Dripping Cake.—Required: l/2 lb. com- mon flour; i teaspoonful baking powder; 2 table- spoonfuls sugar; 2 oz. dripping; about 1 gill cold milk ; a small pinch of salt. Rub the flour and dripping together, add the salt and sugar; mix well; add the baking powder ; stir in enough milk to make a stiff batter; pour into a greased tin mould, and bake in a brisk oven for half an hour. The above mixture can be made richer by adding one egg, and using butter instead of dripping ; if an egg is used, one half the quantity of baking powder is required, and rather less milk. Seed Cake is made in the same way as dripping cake, with the addition of a teaspoonful of carraway seeds. Currant Cake is made in the same way as drip- pmg cake, with the addition of lb. dry currants previously cleansed. Buttermilk Cake.—Required: 3^ lb. flour; % lb. dripping or lard : 2 oz. raisins; 3 oz. currants ; ^ lb. soft sugar; ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda; ^ tea- spoonful tartaric acid ; small pinch of spice ; about 1 gills buttermilk. Cleanse the currants; remove the stones from the raisins , rub the flour and dripping lightly together with the tips of the fingers; add the currants, raisins, sugar, soda, tartaric acid and spice. Mix the whole with a wooden spoon; add enough buttermilk to make a stiff batter. Pour into a well-greased tin, and bake m a hot oven for about an hour.136 DRINKS. XXIV.—DRINKS. Tea.—Proportions: For good tea allow *4 pint boiling water to 1 teaspoonful of tea. Half fill the teapot with thoroughly boiling water ; let it stand two minutes to heat the teapot; pour it away. Have the tea ready to put in immediately; add the boiling water (freshly boiled) ; let it stand from five to ten minutes; or if the water is hard, from ten to fifteen minutes. If tea has to be kept, it should be poured off from the leaves, as a bitter and hurtful flavour is drawn out when the leaves are long soaked. The teapot should be well dried before it is set aside, and left with the lid open. Tea is an exhilarating and refreshing stimulant when properly prepared and taken in moderation. V hen it is long cooked or taken in excess it injures the nervous system and the digestion. Coffee.—Proportions: 1 pint boiling water to 2 heaped dessert spoonfuls of coffee. Pour some boiling water into a jug with a cover 1 let it stand a few minutes till the jug is thoroughly hot; pour away the water. Put the coffee into the jug, add the pint of boiling water, stir with a spoon and let the jug stand in a hot place for about live minutes, then pour through a flannel bag or into a well heated coffee pot with strainer. In serving coffee, half fill the cup with coffee and fill up with hot scalded milk. Coffee, another way.—Proportions: 1oz. cottee to 1 pint cold water. Put the coffee and water into a clean pan or coffee- pot on the fire; stir while it comes to the boil; when boiling add a tablespoonful (to the pint) of cold wate ,137 DRINKS. boil up again; add one tablespoonful of cold water and boil up once more. Draw the pot to the side of the fire ; let it stand at least ten minutes to allow the grounds to sink and the liquid to become clear. Pour off carefully, or strain through a piece of muslin. Half fill the cup with coffee and fill up with hot scalded milk. Cocoa.—Proportions: 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa to a teacupful of boiling water. Break the cocoa with a spoonful of cold water; stir into it gradually the boiling water. It is a great im- provement to boil cocoa for three minutes. Cocoa is very nutritious. Cocoa Nibs.—Proportions: 2 oz. cocoa nibs to 3 pints cold water. Bruise the nibs slightly ; put them into an iron pan with the water; bring slowly to the boil; simmer very slowly for about four to six hours with the lid on, stirring occasionally; the three pints will then be reduced to two. Strain off the liquid into a basin; let it stand till cold; then carefully remove all the fat floating on the top. This preparation may be taken either hot or cold. Oatmeal Drink.—P?-oportions: 1 oz. oatmeal to 1 quart milk ; 1 dessert spoonful sugar. Break the oatmeal with a little cold milk; stir in the rest of the milk gradually; put into a pan on the fire; stir while coming to the boil. Simmer for a quarter of an hour; strain the mixture through a piece of muslin ; add the sugar ; serve hot or cold. Oatmeal and Water.—Proportions: 1 oz. oat- meal to 3 pints cold water; 1 oz. brown sugar. Break the oatmeal with a little cold water; stir in gradually the rest of the water; place in a pan on the fire; bring to the boil and simmer from a quarter toSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 138 half an hour ; add the sugar. Serve hot or cold ; stir up before drinking. XXV.—SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Three things must be specially attended to in invalids’ food :— 1. Every article used in cooking and serving must be perfectly clean. 2. Nothing should, if possible, be cooked within sight of the patient. 3. Food should be served punctually at the hour expected, no more than is likely to be eaten should be offered at one time, and all uneaten food should at once be removed. Ordinary Beef Tea.—Proportions: 1 pint cold water to 1 lb. lean beef. Required for a small quantity, % lb. beef; 1 gill water. Remove all skin and fat, shred the meat, put it into a thick jar, basin, or jug; pour the cold water over it, stir, cover it tightly with a lid or with paper, let it stand half an hour. Place it (still covered) in a pan of cold water (to come half-way up the jar). Simmer this for 2-3 hours, then pour the beef tea off. Remove any fat floating on it by passing small pieces of kitchen paper or blotting paper lightly over it. If not wanted immediately, let it cool, and warm as much as is wanted at a time, as beef-tea spoils when kept warm. The fat is easily removed when it is cold. If salt is permitted by the doctor, add it when the beef and water are set to stand for half an hour. A larger quantity of meat takes longer in proportion to cook. Newly-killed beef is the best for beef-tea, as it con-SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 139 tains more juice than beef that has been kept. After the beef-tea is made, do not throw the meat away ; although much of the strength is drawn out, some remains, and it may be used for various cheap dishes for which chopped meat is wanted, or may be added to the stock-pot. Essence of Beef.—Required: ^ lb. lean beef. Remove all skin and fat; shred the meat very small; put it into a jar or jug, and cook as in last recipe, omitting the water. Essence of beet takes from four to seven or eight hours to make, according to the quantity of meat. If wanted weaker, add hot water to the liquor when it is to be used. Raw Beef-Tea.—Required: 2 oz. lean beef; 1 gill water. Remove all skin and fat, mince the meat very small, put it into a basin or jug, pour the cold water over it, and let it stand for half an hour; then strain off the liquid, and serve it. It should be made fresh each time it is wanted, as it soon becomes putrid. Raw beef-tea is sometimes given during teething, dysentery, and typhoid fever, but should not be given without a doctor’s orders. Raw beef-tea should, if possible, be given in a covered cup, as the appearance is not attractive. Veal or Mutton Tea.—Prepare in the same way as ordinary beef-tea, using one of those meats instead of beef. Savoury Sago Soup.—Required: 1 oz. sago; 2 yolks of eggs ; 1 pint beef-tea; 1 gill cream; 1 gill cold water. Put the sago in a pan with the water; stew gently till tender; then add 1 pint of boiling beef-tea ; cook together for a few minutes. Draw to the side of the fire; add 1 gill of cream. Beat the yolks well in a140 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. basin; pour in slowly the mixture from the pan, stir- ring with a wooden spoon to prevent the eggs curdling. Serve warm. Nourishing. Savoury Custard.—Required: 2 yolks of eggs; 1 white of egg; 1 gill of beef-tea; % oz. of butter; a small pinch of salt. Whisk the yolks and white of egg well together in a basin; stir in the cold beef-tea. Butter slightly a cup or small jar; put the mixture in; cover with a slightly-buttered paper. Place this in a pan of boiling water, the water coming half-way up the jar. Steam thus for about twenty minutes, taking care not to shake the jar, which would curdle the egg. The water must be boiled slowly, to prevent the custard becoming honey-combed. Serve either hot or cold. Nourishing. Mutton Broth.—Required: 1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton; 2 pints cold water; 1 dessertspoonful whole rice or barley; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; 1 teaspoonful salt. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and cut it in small pieces, removing skin and fat. Remove the marrow from the bone and put it (the bone) with the meat, water, and salt into a clean lined pan. Bring it slowly to the boil, and remove all scum carefully. Simmer 3 to 4 hours, skimming occasionally; then strain it through a fine strainer. When cold remove all fat from the top, return the soup to a lined pan and add to it the rice or barley (blanched). Cook this for about 20 minutes, and at the last add the parsley. Other thickening, such as arrowroot or crushed tapioca, may be used instead of rice. If liked, the blanched rice or barley may be added after the first skimming and cooked with the meat.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. *4* scalded bowl and add the brandy. Strain the jelly 3 Chicken or Veal Broth.—Prepare in the same way as mutton broth, using chicken or veal instead o mutton. _ , Ox-foot Jelly.—Required: For the Stock, i ox foot: K pints cold water. Cut the foot into 4 or 6 pieces and remove all marrow and fat. Wash and scrape it well in warm water: put it into a deep pan and cover it with cold water. Bring it to the boil and rinse well; then return it to the pan with the 5 pints of water. Simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours, then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin and allow it to become cold. To Clear the Jelly*—To every pint of stock allow r/2 gill lemon juice; 1 gill sherry; 3 oz. loaf sugar; 2 cloves; 1 inch cinnamon stick; rind of 1 lemon; 1 shell and white of egg; gill brandy; 2 or 3 sheets of gelatine if stock is not very firm. Carefully remove every particle of grease from the stock, with a spoon dipped in hot water, then wipe the surface with a cloth wrung. out. of hot water. Rinse a well lined deep pan, and into it put the stock, gelatine (if required), sherry, cloves and cinnamon. Wash, dry, and peel the lemons thinly, and add the peel and gill lemon juice to the other ingredients. Then add the white of egg and the shell (washed and crushed). Place this over the fire, and whisk it briskly till a good froth rises and it is just beginning to boil. Then remove the whisk and allow the con- tents of the pan to boil well up to the top of the pan. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, cover it with a plate, and allow it to settle for 10 minutes. Tie a linen cloth to the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down. Pour a basin of boiling water through the cloth, then pour the jelly carefully through into aSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 142 or 4 times till it is perfectly clear, then cover it with a blanket and allow it to drip through. Rinse a mould or basin with cold water, and when the jelly is cold but not set, remove the froth from it and pour it gently into the mould. When set, dip the mould in warm water and turn out the jelly. Note. If the sherry is wanted as a stimulant add it to the jelly with the brandy, as by boiling the alcohol evaporates. Calf’s Foot Jelly.—Prepare it in the same way as ox foot jelly, using two calf’s feet instead of one ox foot. Milk and Suet.—Required: y oz. suet; i pint milk. Chop the suet finely, tie it loosely in a piece of muslin, place it in the cold milk, bring slowly to the boil, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Then strain and serve tepid or warm, taking not more than a gill at a time. This preparation is nourishing and fattening; it is often given in consumption. Arrowroot.—Required: y2 oz. arrowroot; y2 pint cold water; i teaspoonful sugar. Add the cold water very slowly to the arrowroot, stirring all the time to keep it smooth. Put this and the sugar into a pan, stir till it boils and thickens; then boil for three minutes. Serve hot. There is almost no nourishment in this preparation but it is easily digested, and can sometimes be taken when nothing else is acceptable. When wine is ordered to be taken with arrowroot the above pre- paration should be used, and the wine well stirred in just before serving. Arrowroot Milk.—Required: y2 oz. arrowroot; y2 pint milk ; i teaspoonful sugar. Prepare as in the last recipe, using milk instead of143 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. water. Stir constantly over a slow fire to prevent the milk from burning. Nourishing because of the milk. Arrowroot Pudding.—Required: % oz. arrow- root; y2 pint milk; 1 egg; % oz. butter; 1 tea- spoonful sugar. Prepare the arrowroot, milk and sugar as in the last recipe. Let it cool, stir in the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie dish. Whisk the white to a stiff froth on a dry plate; stir lightly into the pudding, and allow it to brown for ten minutes in the oven or before the fire. Serve hot. Nourishing. Sago Milk.—Required: y2 oz. sago; y2 pint water; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Steep the water and sago together for an hour, then put into a pan with the sugar. Bring gently to the boil, stirring constantly; simmer for about half an hour or till it is quite clear and soft. If thicker than desired add boiling water. Serve hot Sago may be made with milk instead of water. Nourishing when made with milk. Tapioca Milk.—Required: y2 oz. tapioca; y2 pint water or milk; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Prepare in the same way as sago, simmering the tapioca for an hour, as it is not so easily made soft as sago. Nourishing when made with milk. Rice Milk.—Required: y2 oz. whole rice; ^ pint milk ; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Wash the rice; put it with the milk and sugar into a pan, bring slowly to the boil, and simmer very slowly till the rice becomes a pulp. Serve hot or cold. Nourishing. Gruel.—Required: 1 oz. oatmeal; y2 pint cold water; y2 teaspoonful sugar.144 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Put the oatmeal into a basin, pour over it the cold water, let it stand for twenty minutes. Pour off the water into a pan, pressing the oatmeal with a spoon, so as to leave it as dry as possible. Put the pan on the fire, stir it till it boils, then let it simmer slowly for ten minutes, taking care not to let it burn. Add the sugar and serve hot. y oz. fresh butter may be stirred in before serving instead of sugar. If pre- ferred, milk may be used instead of water; also tea- spoonful of salt may be used. The oatmeal may be used up in a haggis, crappit heads, &c. Slightly nutritious; produces perspiration. Whey.—Required: 1 pint of milk; 1 teaspoonful of rennet. Warm the milk to the heat of new milk, but do not let it become too hot; stir in the rennet, keep it warm for a few minutes till the whey appears and is clear. Pour into a basin, let it cool; break up the curd and strain off the whey. Nourishing and cooling. Thick Milk.—Required: y2 pint milk; y2 oz. flour ; 34 teaspoonful sugar. Break the flour with a small quantity of cold milk ; add the rest of the milk gradually, stirring to keep it smooth. Put it into a pan, bring slowly to the boil (still stirring) and boil for ten minutes. Serve hot. Nourishing. Thick Milk, another way.—Prepare the flour as directed at page 150. Grate the flour, and proceed as in the last recipe. Nourishing, good in diarrhoea. Barley Water.—Required: 1 oz. pearl barley; 1 pint cold water; rind and juice of y2 lemon ; sugar to taste. Wash and blanch the barley, then put it into a well- lined pan with the pint of water and the thinly-peeled lemon-rind. Simmer it slowly for 2 hours, thenSICK-ROOM COOKERY. J45 strain and sweeten it to taste. Add also the lemon- juice unless milk is to be added, in which case omit the lemon-juice as it would curdle the milk. Serve hot or cold. . Rice Water.—Required: y?. oz. whole rice; i pint cold water. Wash the rice. Put it into a pan with i pint of cold water; bring to the boil, boil for half an hour, strain and serve cold. If permitted by the doctor a teaspoonful of sugar may be added, and an inch of cinnamon cooked with it to give flavour. Good for diarrhoea, dysentery, and cholera. Cooling and slightly nutritious. Bread Jelly.—Required: a penny loaf (stale); i quart water ; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Cut the crumb into thin slices, toast on both sides to a light brown. Put into a pan with the sugar and cold water. Simmer slowly till it becomes a jelly ; strain while hot; serve hot alone, or mix with beef tea, soup, tea, or coffee. Nourishing. Toast Water.—Required: 1 slice bread ; x pint boiling water. Toast the bread on both sides till dried through and quite brown but not burnt. Put it into a basin or jug, pour over it the boiling water, let it stand till cold. Strain. Cooling. Lemonade.—Required: 1 lemon ; y2 pint boiling water. Roll the lemon on the table to soften it. Pare the rind very thin ; cut the lemon in two, squeeze the juice into a jug, keeping back the pips as they are bitter. Add half of the lemon rind and the boiling water; cover the jug, let it stand till cold, strain and use. If allowed, one ounce sugar may be added. Cooling.146 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Orangeade.—Required: 1 sweet orange; y2 pint boiling water. Prepare as in the last recipe. Cooling. Apple Water.—Required: 3 apples; y2 oz. sugar ; a piece of lemon rind ; 1 pint boiling water. Wipe the apples with a damp cloth, neither pare nor core them ; cut them in slices and put them into a jug with the sugar and lemon rind. Pour the boiling water over them, cover the jug and let it stand till cold. Strain off the liquid. Cooling. Useful in fevers. Egg Drink.—Required: 1 yolk of a fresh egg; 1 teaspoonful pounded sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls warm milk ; y2 pint soda water. Break the egg, separate the yolk from the white. Work the yolk and sugar together with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, when they will form a creamy mixture. Add the warm milk; stir till smooth ; pour into a tumbler and fill it with the soda water. Very nourishing. If wine is ordered add it cold instead of the milk. Egg with Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, or Milk.— Break the egg into a tea cup ; beat with a fork till well mixed. Pour in the hot tea, coffee, cocoa, or milk gradually, stirring all the time. Very nourishing. If the invalid has very weak digestion, the yolk alone should be used. POULTICES. Mustard Poultice.—Required: dry mustard; cold water. Mix enough cold water thoroughly with the mustard to make it into a thick paste ; continue to stir for two or three minutes. Spread it upon a piece of cotton. Cover the side to be applied to the patient with aSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 147 piece of pocket handkerchief, or washed cotton or muslin; fold down the edges and tack them with a needle and thread to prevent the mustard escaping. To prevent the poultice chilling the patient, hold it for a few seconds to the fire, or put it on a heated plate. Be careful not to make the poultice larger than neces- sary. A mustard poultice is generally kept on from ten to twenty minutes. When it is taken off, a piece of clean wadding should be placed on the skin, or a piece of soft cotton, or flour should be dredged over the part, and a piece of soft cotton spread over it. Bread and Milk Poultice.—Required: stale bread; cold milk. Boil stale bread for five minutes with enough milk to make it into a thick pulp. Spread it on a piece of cotton and apply it very hot, without any cloth be- tween, to the part affected. A few drops of warm oil rubbed over the part, prevents the poultice from sticking. When a bread poultice is to be applied to an open sore, it is better to use water than milk, as milk is apt to become sour. Bread poultices are cleansing and soothing. Linseed Meal Poultice.—Required: Linseed meal; boiling water; old linen, size required; piece of muslin. Fold up the edges of the piece of linen about 1 inch all round, press the folds, open them out and spread the linen on a plate and keep it hot. Heat the bowl, knife, and spoon. Pour the water into the bowl, quickly stir in enough linseed meal to make a stiff mixture. Turn this on to the heated linen and spread it out to the folds, having it not less than in. thick. Place the muslin on the top then fold over the edges of theINFANT’S FOOD. 148 linen. Apply the poultice as hot as can be borne. If mustard is ordered mix mustard with linseed meal in the proportion of one part of mustard to three parts of linseed meal, then proceed in exactly the same way as for an ordinary linseed meal poultice. Linseed meal poultices are especially valuable be- cause when well made they form a thick pulp from which no water trickles down to annoy the patient; they are generally given to allay inflammation. Oatmeal Poultices.—Required: oatmeal; boiling, water. Make in the same way as porridge. Charcoal Poultice.—Required: 1 teaspoonful powdered vegetable charcoal; a small poultice ol bread and water or linseed meal, or porridge. Make a small poultice as already directed; sprinkle the charcoal over it; cover with a piece of muslin and apply the charcoal side to the part affected. Good for bedsores, &=c. Fomentation of Poppy Heads and Camo- mile Flowers.—Required: 4 oz. poppy heads; 2 oz. camomile flowers; about 1 y pints boiling water. Break up the heads; pour the boiling water over them; boil for about seven minutes; then add the camomile flowers ; boil for three minutes longer; strain off the hot liquor; keep it hot; dip pieces of flannel into it and apply externally to the part affected. Gooa for toothache. XXVI.—INFANT’S FOOD. Infants should be fed at fixed hours by day and night at regular intervals of two to three hours for the first two months, and of three to four hours afterwards. The intervals by night may be lengthened sooner than the intervals by day.149 INFANT’S FOOD. Nature has provided in the milk of the mother a suitable and sufficient nutriment for the infant. Ex- ceptional circumstances may prevent the mother nursing it. It then becomes necessary to provide other food which should be chosen to resemble as far as possible that supplied by the mother. The best substitute is warm ass’s milk ; next to this comes cow’s or goat’s milk mixed with one third or more of water hot enough to make the mixture warm (about 96° or 98° Fahr.), and a very small quantity of sugar of milk. The mixed milk of the dairy is better than that of one cow, as more equal in quality. It is imperative in towns to sterilize it. Sugar of milk which may be obtained at the chemists, is prefer- able to cane or beet sugar which are apt to cause acidity. Should there be any tendency to rickets, lime water should be substituted for one half of the common water to be mixed with the milk. Lime water may be purchased at the chemist, or made thus :— Lime Water.—Take a piece of unslaked lime the size of a walnut, put it into a quart bottle of water, let it stand twenty-four hours, then filter, and it is ready for use. In most cases when a child has had enough of food, it will show a disinclination for more. Nurses often err in forcing more upon it, and there is nothing more apt to injure the digestion of a child than to stop its crying fits (many of which proceed from over feeding) by offering it food. Only enough for one meal should be prepared at a time, as milk becomes sour, and the slightest sourness makes the milk ferment, and is very hurtful to the infant. For the same reason great care must be taken to have the bottle in which the milk is given perfectly clean. It should be thoroughly washedINFANT’S FOOD. after each time of using in very hot water, and then laid in cold water till required. The difficulty of keeping mdia rubber tubes clean is a strong objection to their use. I he best bottles to use are those with the nipple directly attached to them without the tube. In some cases the milks mentioned do not suit the infant.. Swiss milk may then be tried; instructions for preparing it are given on the tins. After three or four months the quantity of water mixed with the milk should be gradually lessened • at six months the milk may be almost undiluted, and after six months the infant may occasionally have one ot the following preparations instead of milk. Pap.—Take stale bread, cover it with cold water, and boil it for five minutes. Strain off as much of the water as you can, bruise the bread till it is smooth, add some milk warmed but not boiled, and a very little sugar of milk; mix till quite smooth. This food should be given warm (about 96° or 98° Fahr.). Rusks.—Prepare as in last recipe. Flour.—-lie some flour tightly in a cloth as if it were a pudding; put it into boiling water, and boil for about four hours, when it will be quite hard. Open the ball, use in the proportion of a y2 oz. flour to a y2 pint milk and a y2 teaspoonful of sugar of milk. Scrape as much of the flour as you require for a meal; add the sugar; mix to a smooth paste with a little cold milk; add the rest of the milk gradually. Place in a pan, and stir over the fire till it boils; let it boil lor three minutes, remove from the fire, and let it cool till it is only warm (96° or 98° Fahr.). If preferred, the flour may be baked for the same length of time in a slow oven. This is good for an infant who has a tendency to diarrhoea. In all such cases the milk should be boiled, but it must be allowed to151 INFANT’S FOOD. cool before being used, as the food must not be given above the heat mentioned. The occasional use of these foods prepares the way for weaning. Weaning in a child of average health takes place about nine months after birth. During weaning, in addition to plain milk, a fresh egg well beaten may be given in say three portions during the day, with some milk mixed with it. After weaning, a little beef-tea (see page 138, ordinary beef-tea,) may be given—not more than 2 oz. (four tablespoonfuls) a day. No farinaceous foods should be given until after weaning, as there is no saliva to mix with and prepare them for digestion until the teeth come. In the pap and flour mixtures already mentioned the starch is driven out by boiling. As the teeth come, animal and vegetable food may be gradually added in small quantities, but the diet of young children should consist chiefly of milk and eggs, either taken separately or made into puddings with semolina, rice, arrowroot, etc. (see page no). It must be understood that the foregoing remarks are quite general in their nature, and subject to modi- fication for even healthy infants. The patent foods suit some children; a little beef-tea before weaning agrees well with others. Warning.—Mothers cannot be too strongly wanted against giving infants either spirituous liquors or opiates—that is, soothing syrups, etc. Spirituous liquors cause inflammation of the coats of the stomach, and lay the foundation of many diseases in afterlife. Opiates injure the nervous system, make the child nervous and irritable, and hurt digestion. All soothing powders contain opium (even Dalby’s Carminative), and should only be used when ordered by a doctor.1 52 APPENDIX. SUGGESTIONS FOR ARRANGING COOKERY CLASSES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. If a school can be so built as to allow of a room being specially arranged as a kitchen, so much the better, but it is by no means essential. Cookery classes can be conducted in an ordinary well-ven- tilated schoolroom with little or no inconvenience. Cookery may be taught in two ways—first, by de- monstration, in which the teacher cooks and explains the dishes; second, by practice classes, in which the pupils themselves cook. If managers of elementary schools can give the money and allow the time to have the children taught first by demonstration and then in practice classes, that is the most thorough training First.—In demonstration classes the number of pupils that can be admitted depends upon the accom- modation. It is advisable to have the seats slightly raised; if this cannot be done, the teacher must teach from a small platform. She should have either a gas stove or a projecting American stove to cook with, as, if an ordinary close or open range is used, she would require constantly to turn away from her class in attending to the pots and pans on the fire. The utensils should be such as are commonly used by a working man’s family.APPENDIX. 153 Second.—In order to gain from a practice class its peculiar advantages as compared with demonstrations, each dish should be entirely cooked by certainly not more than two pupils. Ten, or at most fourteen, pupils so coupled are as many as a teacher can efficiently direct at one time. For practice lessons it is advisable to have a kitchen-range of the kind usually used by the working classes of the district. To enable a class of ten or twelve girls to work at the same time, this should be supplemented by the gas or American stove already mentioned. A sink should be fitted up in the room in which practice lessons are conducted; also a cupboard to hold utensils and stores. Utensils Required for Demonstration Lessons.1 1 small girdle 1 kettle 1 fish kettle 1 large saucepan 1 medium do. 1 smaller do. 1 very small do. 1 frying pan 1 smaller do. 1 medium stew pan 1 small do. 1 colander 1 strainer 1 pint measure 1 pair scissors x vegetable bruiser 3 skewers 1 flour dredger 2 boards 1 rolling pin 1 carrot grater 1 egg brush 1 small fish slice 1 toasting fork 2 baking tins and 2 baking sheets 3 pot rests 6 patty tins 1 soup ladle 4 wooden spoons 6 iron do. 3 teaspoons 1 pointed knife 1 small pointed potato knife 1 onion knife 3 dinner knives and forks 1 knife board 3 blacklead brushes 1 scrubbing brush 1 small tub 1 pitcher 1 teapot 1 coffee pot 6 bowls (2 with rims) 4 small pie dishes 6 jugs 9 dinner plates 3 soup do. 3 cups and saucers 6 towels 6 dusters 2 pudding cloths 1 Scales and weights may be used, but are not essential; they are rarely found in an artisan’s home.154 APPENDIX. Additional Utensils Required for a Practice Class of Twelve or Fourteen Pupils. i smaller fish kettle i large saucepan i medium do. 6 smaller do. 1 very small do. 2 frying pans i stew pan, medium 6 small do. i tin roasting screen, ladle, and dripping tin i gridiron i Dutch oven 4 boards 5 rolling pins 8 wooden spoons 3 iron do. 4 pot rests 6 forks 1 small pointed potato knife 5 onion knives 6 dinner knives 8 bowls, £ with rims 8 small pie dishes 4 pie dishes a little larger 8 meat dishes 3 dinner plates 3 soup do. 3 cups and saucers 2 very large brown earthen- ware basins 6 jars 6 towels 6 dusters 4 pudding cloths i girdleCurry, 74; dumpling^ 118; soup, 55. Browning, 89. INDEX. Ages, different food for, 20. Albumen, 16. Apple pudding, 109; dumpling, 118; dumpling, boiled, 109; water, 146. Arrowroot, 142; milk, 142 ; pudd- ing, 143; sauce, 129. Bacon and eggs, 78; toasted, 78. Baking, general directions for, 44. Barley, pudding, 114; ground, pudding, 114; water, 144. Beans, French, to cleanse, 38. Beef, how to choose, 29; corned, 65; olives, 70; roast, 63 ; rolled ribs of, 63; stewed, and vegeta- bles, 69. Beefsteak, broiled, 65; pudding, 108; pie, 106. Beef tea, ordinary, 26, 138; raw, 139; essence of, 139. Beetroot, 100. Bird’s nest pudding, 122. Black cap pudding, 117. Blackleading, 34. Boiling, general directions for, 41. Brain cakes, 67. Brass knobs, to clean, 34. Brazilian stew, 71. Bread, 9, 130. ,, and butter pudding, 115. .. jelly, 145- ,, and milk poultice, 147. ,, pudding, 115. ,, sauce, 129. „ soup, 51. ,, and meat shape, 80. Broiling, general directions for, 40. Brose, fat, 92; peas,92; fatpeas,92. Broth, Scotch, 48 ; sheep’s head broth, 53. Brown, economical, soup,56; richer soup, 56; vegetable soup, 51. Bubble and squeak, 82. Buttermilk cake, 135. Cabbage, 97; to cleanse, 37; soup, 50. Calfs foot jelly, 142. Camomile flowers fomentation, 148 Caper sauce, 128. Carrots, boiled, 96; to cleanse, 37 ; dumpling, 118. Cauliflower, 97 ; to cleanse, 37. Charcoal poultice, 148. Cheap dishes without meat, 89. Chicken broth, 141. Chop, 65; fried with potatoes, 78. Clarify dripping, to, 83. Cleanse vegetables, to, 37. ,, utensils, to, 34. Clear soup, 57. Climates, diet for different, 21. Cocoa, 137; nibs, 137. Coffee, two ways, 136. Colcannon, 97. Colds, diet for, 26. Cold meat cookery, 79. Collops, mince, 69. Constipation, diet for, 26. Cookery classes in elementary schools, suggestions for, 152. Cookery, the principles of, 16. Corned beef, 65. Cornflour, shape of, 116. Cornish pasties, 104. Cowheel, stewed, 76. Crappit heads, 63. Crust, flaky, 105; economical short, 103; richer, 103; oat- meal pie, 107. Crystal, to cleanse, 37.156 INDEX. Currant puddings, 93; dumpling, 118; cake, 135. Custard pudding, 116; sauce, 129. Dandelions, 99. Demonstration lessons, utensils required for, 153. Diagrams of ox, with explanation, 3°- Diagrams of sheep, with explana- tion, 32. Diarrhoea, diet in, 25. Dysentery, diet in, 25. Dough dumpling, 119. Dropped scones, 133. Eggs, how to choose, 30; baked, 125 ; to boil, 124 ; to hard boil, 124 ; poached, 125 ; rummeled, 125 ; snow, 126. Egg drink, 146 ; sauce, 128. Egg with tea, coffee, cocoa, or milk, 146. Employments, diet in different,22. Explanation of various terms, 46. Exeter stew, 73. Fat, to render down, 83. Fever, diet in, 25 ; rheumatic, diet in, 25. Fig pudding, 121. Filter, a cheap, 89. Fire, to lay a, 34. Fish, how to choose, 29; baked, 60 ; boiled, 59 ; boiled salt, 59; cakes, 59; filleted fried, 59; pudding, 60; soup, 52; to fry, 58 ; stock, 52. Flavourings, 14. Flesh formers, 11. Flour and dripping dumplings, 119- Flour and water scones, 134. Flour, 9, 150. Food, adaptation of, to varying circumstances, 19 ; animal, 16; general statement of the com- ponent parts of our chief, 15; infant’s, 148; the materials of, 9; uses of, 8 ; wholesomeness of, 8. Foods, warmth or heat giving, 10. Fomentation of poppy head, 148. Forks, knives and, to cleanse, 36. Fowl, how to choose, 29; boil, 66. draw a, 84 ; roast, 64 ; truss a, for boiling, 85; truss a, for roasting, 84. Frying, general directions for, 43. General rules in cooking, 16. Girdle cakes, 134. Goblet pie, no. Goose pudding, 89. Grate or range, to cleanse, 34. Gruel, 143. Haddocks, finnon, 62; stuffed and baked, 61. Haggis, pan, 86; sheep's, 85. Ham, how to choose, 29 ; boil, 66. Haricot beans, 101; with mutton, 69- Haricot bean soup, 49. ,, mutton, 68. Hash, 79. Hasty pudding, 117. Health, different states of, 25. Heart, roast,64; sheep’s, roast, 64. Herrings, baked, 61; fried, 59; stewed, 62. Hotch-potch, 55. Indigestion, diet in, 26. Indoor occupations, diet for, 22. Infant’s food, 148. Influenza, diet in, 26. Irish stew, 68. Jam, 87. Jelly, 88; ox-foot, 141. Kidney soup, 54. Kidney, stewed, 72. Knight’s, Poor, 123. Knives and forks, to cleanse, 36. Lamb's head, dressed (boiled), 67. Lemonade, 145. Lemon dumpling, 118; pudding, 120; sponge, 122. Lentil soup, 49.INDEX. 157 Lettuce, to cleanse, 37, boiled, 100. Lights, stewed, 75. Lime water, 149. Linseed poultice, 147. Liver puddings, 86. Luns, Sally, 131. Macaroni and milk pudding, 113. ,, and cheese, 92. ,, and meat shape, 80. ,, plain boiled, 101. Mackerel, broiled, 62. Marmalade pudding, 121. Mealy puddings, 93. Measures, tables of, 28. Meat, cheap dishes without, 89 ; pickle for, 88; sanders, 81 ; salad, 82; how to choose, 29; names and uses of various pieces of, 30. Melted butter, 127 ; cheap, 127. Milk, 9. Milk rolls, 131; soup, 49; and suet, 142; thick, two ways, 144. Mince, 67 ; collops, 69. Mint sauce, 129. Miscellaneous recipes, 117. Mock hare, 84. Mushrooms, how to choose, 101; grilled, 101; stewed, 102 Mustard relish, 130 ; poultice, 146. Mutton, how to choose, 29; broth, 140; leg of (boiled), 65; roast, 64 ; tea, 139; with haricot beans, 69. Nettles (boiled), 99. Norfolk dumplings, 119. Oatcakes, 132. Oatmeal drink, 137. ,, and water, 137. ,, poultice, 148. Omelet, 125. Onions, to cleanse, 38 ; baked, 98; stewed, 98. Onion soup, 50; sauce, 128. Orangeade, 146. Outdoor occupations, diet for, 23. Ox, mode of cutting up, 30. Ox-cheek soup, 53. Ox-foot jelly, 141. Pancakes, 126 ; snow, 88. Pans, to cleanse, brass, 35. ,, copper, 35. ,, ,, enamelled, 35. .. iron, 35- Pan kail, 47. Pap, 150. Parsley sauce, 128. Pastry, 103 ; rough puff, 105. Peas soup, 49. Peas pudding, 94; boiled, 97; stewed with bacon, 98. Pickle for meat, 88. Plaice, stewed, 62. Plain dripping cake, 135. Plain plum pudding, 119. Plates, dishes, &c., to cleanse, 36. Poor man’s goose, 87. Poppy head, fomentation of, 148. Pork, roast, 64. Porridge, 83. ,, cold scones, 132. Potatoes, to cleanse, 37; old, boiled in their jackets, 95 ; old, boiled without their jackets, 95; baked, 95 ; mashed, 96; new, 96 ; new Swiss way, 96. Potato pudding, 116 ; scones, 134; soup, 48; pastry, 104. Pot-au-feu, 56. Practice lessons,additional utensils required for, 154. Pulses, 12, 16. Rabbit, stewed, 72. ,, to prepare, 72. Railway pudding, 124. Rice for curry, 100. ,, and apple pudding, 122. and cheese, 90. boiled with meat, iot. milk, 143. water, 145.INDEX. 158 Rice shape, 113. ,, pudding, hi. ,, ,, raised, 112. .1 ,, steamed, 112. ,, ,, without eggs, hi. Rissoles, 81. Roasting, general directions for, 38. Roast, savoury, 64. Roly poly, 109; baked, no; meat, no. Rusks, 150. Russian fish pie, 106. Sago, milk, 143; pudding, 114. Salad, plain, 102 ; sauce, 130. Sally Luns, 131. Salt, effects of, 17. Salts, 13. Sauces, proportions for, 127. Sausages, fried, 77. Sausage rolls, 107. Savoury custard, 140; fish pie, 60; potatoes, 91; rice,90; croquettes, 91; sago soup, 139. Seed cake, 135. Semolina pudding, 114. ,, ,, steamed, 114. Sheep, mode of cutting up a, 32. Sheep’s head broth, 53; pie, 107 ; head dressed, 66, 67. Shepherd’s pie, 79. Sick-room cookery, 138. Soda scones, 133. Soups, 46. Spanish stew, 73. Spinach, to cleanse, 38. ,, boiled, 99. Starch, 9, 10. Steak fried in the pan, 77. Steaming, general directions, 41. Steel, to cleanse, 34. Stewing, general directions for, 42. Stock, 57. Stockpot, 47. Stomach complaints, diet for, 26. Suet dumpling, 117. ,, paste, 108. Sugar, 9, 10. Sweet rice croquettes, 91. Swiss, plain, roll, 123. ,, stew, 71. Table of weights and measures, 28. Tables and shelves, to cleanse, 36. Tapioca milk, 143. ,, pudding, 113. Tart, fruit, 103. Tartlets, 104. Tea, 27, 136. Tins, to cleanse, 36. ,, ,, cake, 36. Toad in the hole, 87. Toast water, 145. Tripe, dressed, 76; fried, 78; stewed, 75. Treacle pudding, 121. ,, sauce, 129. Turnips, to cleanse, 38. ,, boiled, 97. Veal, knuckle of, stewed, 75. ,, broth, 141. ,, olives, 71. ,, tea, 139. Vegetables, principles of cooker}', 18. Vegetables, to cleanse, 37. Vegetable soup, 51. Wakefield pudding, 121. Water, 13. Water bottles, to cleanse, 37. Weaning, 151. Welsh rabbit, 93. Weights, tables of, 28. Whey, 144. White sauce, 128. „ plain, 129. ,, sweet, 128. Yorkshire pudding, 117. GLASGOW : PRINTED BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.PlacmtUan’s Scrus of ||rim*rs. science. Under the Joint Editorship of Professors HUXLEY, ROSCOE, and BALFOUR STEWART. Pott 8vo. Cloth. 11. each. Physiology. By Sir M. Foster, M.D., F.R.S. Astronomy. By Sir N. I.ockyer, F.R.S. Botany. By Sir ]. D. Hooker, K.C.S.I., F.R.S. Logic. By W. Stanley Jevons, F.R.S. Political F.conomy. By W. S. Jevons, F.R.S. LITERATURE. Introductory. By T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. Chemistry. By Sir H. E. Roscoe, F.R.S. With Questions. Physics. By B. Stewart, F.R.S. With Questions. Physical Geography. By Sir Archibald Geikie, F.R.S. With Questions. Geology. By Sir Archibald Geikie, F.R.S. Edited by JOHN R. GREEN, M.A., LL.D. Pott 8vo. Cloth, li. each. English Grammar. By Rev. R. Morris. Revised by H. Bradley, M.A. English Grammar Exercises. By Rev. R. Morris and H. C. Bowen. Exercises on Morris’s Primer of English Grammar. By J. Wetherell, M.A. English Composition. By Prof. Nichol. Questions and Exercises in Eng- lish Composition. By Prof. Nichol and W. S. M'Cormick. Philology. By J. Peile, M.A. English Literature. By Rev. Stopford Brooke, M.A. Children’s Treasury of Lyrical Poetry. Selected by Prof. F. T. Palgrave. Ini parts, is. each. Chaucer. By A. W. Pollard. Shakspere. By Prof. Dowden. Greek Literature. By Prof. Jebb. Homer. By Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone. Roman Literature. By A. S. Wilkins. MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED, LONDON.HISTORY, Edited, by JOHN R. GREEN, M.A., LL.D. Pott 8vo. Cloth, is. each. Europe. By E. A. Freeman, M.A. Greece. By C. A. Fyffc, M.A. Rome. By Bishop Creighton. Greek Antiquities. By Prof. Mahaffy. Roman Antiquities. By Prof. Wilkins. Classical Geography. By H. F. Tozer, France. By Charlotte M. Yonge. Geography. By Sir Geo. Grove. D.C.L. Indian History, Asiatic and European. fey J. Talboys Wheeler. Analysis of English History. By T. F. Tout, M.A, History of England. By A. Buckley. VARIOUS. Pott Svo. Cloth, ix. each. Arnold, M. A Bible-Reading for Schools : The Great Prophecy of Israel’s Restoration (Isai. xl.-lxvi). 4th Edition. Barker, Lady. First Lessons in the Principles of Cooking. 3rd Edition. Barnett, Edith A., and O’Neill, H. C. Domestic Economy. Berners, J. First Lessons on Health. Bettany, G. T. First Lessons in Practical Botany. Buckland, Anna. Our National Institutions. Collier, Hon. John. A Primer of Art. Collins, C. Greenhouse and Window Plants. Cooper-Key, Major. Primer of Explosives. Cousins, H. H. Chemistry of the Garden. Dean, A. Vegetable Culture. Elderton, W. A. Mapsand Map Drawing. Fayrer, Sir J. On Preservation of Health in India. Flagg, A. T. A Primer of Navi- gation. Foster, Sir Michael. Simple Lessons on Health for the Use of the Young. Geikie, Sir A. Geography of the British Isles. Gaskoin, Mrs. Herman. Child- ren’s Treasury of Bible Stories. Part I. Old Testament. II. New Testament. III. Three Apostles, ix. each. Grand’homme. CuttingOut and Dressmaking. Fromthe French of Mdlle. Grand’homme. Laurie, A. P. The Food of Plants. Maclear, Rev. Canon. A Shil- ling Book of Old Testament History. — A Shilling Book of New Testa- ment History. Muir, J Manual of Dairy Work. Reynolds, E. S. Primer of Hygiene. Somerville, W. Farm and Garden Insects. Tanner, Henry. First Principles of Agriculture. Taylor, Franklin. Primer of Pianoforte Playing. Tegetmeier, W. B. Household Management and Cookery. Thornton, J. Primer of feook- Keeping. — Easy Exercises in Book- Keeping. Wright, Miss Guthrie. The School Cookery-Book. Wright, J. Primer of Horti- culture. — Garden Flowers and Plants. MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED, LONDON. 10.11 09