22 Dainty Meals for Small Households has up till then been milky-looking, becomes quite clear and ceases bubbling. Let it stand on the stove till all the little bits of skin left in it have shrivelled up and are quite brown, but not burnt. Now let it stand, off the fire, to cool for a couple of minutes, then pour it through a strainer into a basin, and leave it till quite cold and set. Fat thus clarified should be quite white and hard, and will keep for weeks, if not months. This fat is ex- cellent for frying, and can be used over and over again ; to ensure perfection throw in a little salt, stir, let it stand for five minutes, and strain it off into an earthen- ware basin. It is advisable not to allow it to cool in the frying-pot, as tiny bits from whatever was fried in it may sink to the bottom in the fat, and, when reheated, will discolour the fat and the next thing cooked in it. If, from repeated use, the fat becomes dark in colour, it must be reclarified thus :—Melt it and pour it into a quart of water (this is for the amount of fat required for an ordinary fried fish), add a small handful of salt, and mix it all well together ; then let it cool till the fat has set on the surface ; this must be lifted out, wiped, scraping off the discoloured underneath. Of course this second clarifying is not as pure as the first time—the whitest will fry sweets, the next savouries and vegetables, and the deepest coloured for cooking fish. Of course, fat used for pastry, &c, must be of the first clarifying only. Really good clarified dripping (beef) can be used for household purposes in any way that butter is used. An excellent frying and cooking fat can also be pro- duced as follows :—Take about 2 lbs. of beef suet, cut it up small, stand it in a basin of water over night, change the water in the morning, and boil the fat in a cupful of milk ; this will produce a clear substance, which can be stood on the side of the fire ; meantime clarify or melt 1 lb. of fresh lard and i\ lb. of fresh butter. Mix the