214 Dainty Meals for Small Households and in small pieces, about fib. of butter; fold the pastry over, roll it out ; continue this until all the butter has been used, then fold it up, roll it out three times, and let it stand for half an hour. When it is ready to put into the tin, it ought not to be thicker than the back of the blade of a carving knife. The baking tin should be of the plainest kind, of rather thin make, and with an edge not more than half an inch or so in depth. The fruit must be stoned, neatly opened or cut in half, laid on the pastry to cover it completely just before it is put into the oven, and quickly baked and served when the greatest heat has subsided, with a sprinkling of sugar and cinnamon. These tarts are also eaten cold. Cherries, apples (peeled, cored, and cut in fairly thin slices), and plums are the best to use for this kind of dish. Gooseberries and straw- berries also answer well if not too ripe. Other Open Fruit Tarts.—Take lib. of flour, fib. of but- ter, three-quarters of a tumblerful of water (cold and fresh), and a pinch of salt. Put the flour on the board ; make a hole in the centre, put in the butter, the water (gradu- ally), and the salt ; work together the ingredients very thoroughly, not mixing them too rapidly ; gather the whole into one large lump, flatten it down twice with the hand, roll it into a large ball, and let it stand twenty minutes before using it. When the tart is wanted, roll out the pastry to a thickness of a little less than fin.; spread it on a round baking tin ; make a thick folded edge. Have ready some apples, for instance, first quartered and then cut into fairly thin slices ; arrange them on the pastry in circles, beginning at the outside, and going gradually all over the pastry in rings, so that each circle overlaps another by a very little. Mix three pinches of sugar with one of powdered cinnamon, sprinkle these over the apples j put the tin into a brisk oven and bake for thirty or forty minutes, When it is done sprinkle