Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20417792MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK.4Myra'S dooKERY Book. R NE¥ RND PRIICTICHL METHOD OF LEARNING COOKERY, SND WORKING OUT ¥ELL-TRIED RECIPES, TOGETHER WITH CLEAR INSTRUCTIONS IN THE ARTS OF Baking, Roasting, Larding, Pastry, Creams, Savouries, Boiling, Frying, Glazing, Broiling, Stewing, Preserving, Braising^ Steaming, Pickling, AS WELL AS THE PROPER WAYS OF MAKING Puddings, Custards, Cakes, Moulds, Sauces, Compotes, Jellies, Forcemeats^ Omelets, NEW EDITION. ENLARGED AND REVISED BY MRS. M. BEETON, LONDON: MYRA AND SON, 39 & 40, BEDFORD STREET, COVENT GARDEN. W.C.Nfi/ELLCO'?/;? i'SiiTUTE Coli. Ca!! No. vw\DESCRIPTION OF COLOURED PLATE. I Fish Cakes. H Apple Cake. 2 Lobster Salad. 15 Blanc Mange of two colours. 3 Lobster Cutlets. i6 Vanilla Cream. 4 Cod's Head and Shoulders. 17 Sweet Omelette. 5 Chicken Kromeskies. i8 Rice Croquettes. 6 Galantine of Veal. 19 Jam Tartlets. 7 Salmon (Boiled). 20 Trifle. 8 Mutton Cutlets. 21 Charlotte Russ». 9 Veal Cutlets. 22 Meringues. 10 Turbot (Boiled). 23 Apple Fritters. II Filletted Soles. 24 Claret Jelly. 12 Fried Whiting. 25 Chocolate Cream. 13 Mayonnaise of Chicken. 26 Fruit Jelly.This IS OF Delicious AND PREPARED FROM Finest Ripe Fruit. Edge Bros. 9, FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C. Sauce DI^E^TIOM. PREFERRED IN All Houses WHERE THE Purest are Provided for the TABLE. « # « ^old in BottlB^ Write forlSample {3 stamps) to Edge Bros. 9, FARRINGDON ROAD, ON, E.G.PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. HIS little volume must not be considered in any way as a substitute for larger and well-known Cookery Books, the standard works on the subject of cookery for many years. It is more intended for beginners who require a book to which they can instantly refer whilst preparing a dish, and which tells them in the fewest possible words the ingredients they will require in its preparation, the quantity of each ingredient, the process or processes through which it has to go before it can be mixed with the other ingredients, and the order in which these processes have to follow each other. No attempt is made to treat cooking from a scientific point of view; the object has been to provide a handy, practical, concise book, easily referred to, and in which it is not necessary to read through the whole of the recipe in order to find the particular point that requires the moment's study. The tabular system followed obviates any necessity of this kind : the young student of cookery looks down the columns, notes the nature and amount of the ingredients required, collects these round her, and then sees what has to be done with each one. The quantities have been given as accurately as possible, and should be carefully observed; at the same time, the cook should note the taste of the individuals for whom she exercises her art, and alter the seasonings and flavouring of the dishes as she thinks expedient in order to render thePREFACE, vi food thoroughly palatable. A little experience will soon give the necessary skill forjudging such matters. The recipes given include all those usually required by English middle-class famihes, and to these have been added the recipes of a number of French, German, and Italian dishes, all good in their several w^ays, easy of preparation, and likely to be acceptable as providing a little agreeable change in the rather limited menu of the ordinary English cuisine. More recipes are given for soups and vegetables than are usually found in English cookery books, for these two very nutritious, economical, and delicious branches of cookery are generally too much overlooked in England. A great number of recipes are also given for little dishes," made either from fresh meat or from such as has been already cooked. The preparation of these requires care and intelligence, but without a due exercise of these two qualities neither cooking, nor any other art, is likely to be pursued with success.PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. HE success of the novel and practical method of transcribe ing Recipes, inaugurated in Myra's Cookery Book, has been unqualified ; and it is with the greatest confidence and pleasure that we issue our second and revised edition, enlarged by more than one hundred recipes, and embellished with a delicate coloured Cookery Plate, which we venture to think is without a rival in this special branch of pictorial art. In issuing the Second Edition of this book, one of the chief objects in view throughout the revision has been the study of Economy in the Kitchen. Several practical and useful recipes have therefore been added to those in the first edition ; and perhaps a few words on the general principles of econo- mical cooker}^, with a few particular applications in the cnxlinary methods of cooking, may be of some value to would- be thrifty young housewives—beginners in the science ot Household Management. One of the great secrets in economical cookery is to make use of all remnants and trimmings—that is, every particle of fat, skin, or bone remaining over from a joint of meat, or trimmed off before it is cooked. The bones and skin should be separated from the fat and put into a stock-pot, and excellent stock they make (see recipe, Sect. I., No. 60). If this rule is strictly adhered to there need never be any lack of stock for soups, sauces, or gravies, even in the smallest menage. A second stock can often be obtained after the first has been strained off the bones, by stewing them down again; and, though naturally not nearly equal to the first in quality, forms a very good foundation for vegetable soups, cold meat re-viii PREFACE. chauffees, and various little dishes for which strong stock is not a necessity. The fat trimmings should be put into a saucepan and clarified by boiling gently with water; when quite melted, strain into a basin, allow all the fat to rise to the surface, and then pour off the water from underneath. All dripping from roast joints should be treated in the same way. When cold, this clarified fat or dripping is beautifully white in appearance, and quite takes the place of the very best lard; it is also an excellent substitute for, or at any rate supplement to, butter in many cases; it is equally as good as butter for nearly all frying purposes, omelets and such-like delicate dishes being excepted. It is often an improvement to pastry, rendering it lighter than if butter alone were used (this is especially the case in the summer, when butter is soft and moist). Very good plain cakes can be made with dripping, with or without the addition of a little butter. Again, in roasting, when butter is mentioned as being required for basting, dripping will be often found to answer the same purpose equally well, except in the cases of delicate dishes, such as game, etc. Again, some recipes for soups, sauces, stews, puddings, cakes, etc., in this book have wine as one of the ingredients. Many young and inexperienced cooks, whose household re- sources are not equal to this demand, would, on seeing it, at once turn from the recipe. It would be as well, however, to read the recipe carefully through, for although in many instances it could on no account be omitted without completely altering and spoiling the character of the dish, there are almost as many instances when it is only used to add extra flavouring and give a touch of hauteur to the dish, no very detrimental consequences resulting from its omission. It is very useful to keep a special bottle for any wine dregs that may remain after decanting; although slightly cloudy these dregs have all the flavour of the wine, and answer all cooking purposes admirably.ix PREFACE. Again, most of our recipes for omelets contain a great number of eggs; for a rich omelet, or for one required to suffice for several persons, this is, of course, necessary; but a delicious omelet for one or two persons can be made with two or three eggs and one or two ounces of butter. Beat the whites and yolks separately; flavour; when the whites are a firm froth mix quickly with the yolks, and pour into the pan; fry carefully and you will have an omelet at once excellent and economical. Baking is perhaps one of the simplest and easiest modes of cooking; the chief requisites being the thorough knowledge and proper regulation of the oven. Meat demands perhaps more attention than any other food whilst baking, as it must be constantly watched and basted to prevent burning. Baking-tins for joints always consist of a rather shallow dish fitting into a deep one, which latter should always be kept filled with water during the process of cooking, to prevent the gravy or the bottom of the joint becoming burnt. As already stated in the first Preface, pastry and light cakes require a quick oven. Cakes requiring a long time to cook should be first put into a quick oven till the crust has suffi- ciently risen, and then carefully removed to a lower shelf to bake through. There is little that has not been mentioned in the foregoing Preface as regards boiling meat and poultry of all kinds, the general rule being to place it at once in boiling water. It is scarcely necessary to mention that puddings are always put into boiling water. Finally, we may add that some pains have been taken to make the Second Edition of this work as accurate and com- plete as possible; but, should any of our friends discover errors or omissions, we shall esteem it a great favour to have them pointed out. M. B.CONTENTS. SECTION PA&E PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION v PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION vii METHODS OF COOKING xii I. SOUPS 1 II. FISH 37 III. BEEF ... 67 IV. VEAL 90 V. MUTTON 114 VI. LAMB 136 VIL PORK 143 VIII. POULTRY 156 IX. GAME 182 X. VEGETABLES 210 XL EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS 251 XII. SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS 265 XIIL PASTRY 291 XIV. PUDDINGS 313 XV. CREAMS AND MOULDS 343 XVL JELLIES 353 XVII. CAKES AND BISCUITS ... 364 XVIIL COMPOTES OF FRUIT 393 XIX. PRESERVES 406 XX. SAVOURY DISHES 424 XXL PICKLES 441 XXIL BEVERAGES ... 454 XXIII. INVALID COOKERY 459 XXIV. BEVERAGES FOR INVALIDS... ... ... 461METHODS OF COOKING- ROASTING- CASTING is the simplest and most generally adopted -""^ way of cooking fresh meat; it may be done in the oven, or before the fire on a spit, or suspended from a bottle-jack—most people prefer this method, as tending less to deteriorate the flavour of the meat. For a large joint the fire should be strong and even; for a smaller joint it should be brisk—in either case the length of the fire should be a little longer than that of the meat, so that the ends of the joint may be roasted equally with the centre. Large joints are improved if they are allowed to lie in the dripping pan near the fire until warmed through, before they are hung up to roast. Great care must be used in roasting meat on a spit not to run this through the best part of the joint, as the gravy escapes by the holes made by the spit— the same remark holds good with skewers: string should be used as much as possible instead of skewers, to prevent the loss of gravy. The time generally allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, and the joint is tender in proportion with the slowness of the roasting. There are, however, some points to be noted with regard to time that should be remembered; fresh meat takes longer to roast than does meat that has been hung for some time; young meat requires less cooking than that of older animals ; and fat meat takes longer than lean meat, which should be covered with buttered paper before roasting, to prevent burning and dryness. Small—and especially thin—joints may be put down to axiii brisk fire, which causes the fibres to contract and prevents the gravy from escaping. Large joints should not be put close to the fire at first, but gradually brought nearer to it, so that the heat may penetrate to the centre of the joint without scorching and burning the outside of it. Salt may be sprinkled over the joint while it lies in the pan before the fire, or when it is partially cooked : basting should be continued the whole time the joint is before the fire. It should be sheltered from draughts while roasting, and when the steam rises from the joint it is time to take it off the spit. The outside of a well-cooked joint is well browned, but not burnt: the inside is filled with natural gravy, the juice of the meat. Some joints, such as a fillet of veal, have flour dredged over them and browned, just before taking the meat from the fire. The cook must consult the taste of the family as to the amount of roasting that is required: veal, pork, and lamb should always be thoroughly done, but many people prefer beef and mutton rather underdone. To secure great tender- ness, keep the joint at a distance from the fire, and allow half an hour to each pound of meat, and put it closer to the fire to brown it for the last half hour before serving. Roasted in this way the joint will be tender and thoroughly done. BAKING. The oven is now often used for roasting meat instead of cooking the joint before the open fire: to many people, however, meat cooked in this way is unpalatable, and, except for its convenience, baking cannot be recommended as a substitute for roasting. Meat is baked in a tin dish, but raised on a stand so that it may not rest in the gravy that drips from it. To prevent it from being dried or burnt, sheets of buttered paper mayxiv MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. be skewered over it, and potatoes or a Yorkshire pudding may be baked in the dish under the meat. The oven is, however, exceedingly well adapted for many methods of slow cooking when regular heat is required. Stews of meat, fish, or vegetables may all be cooked in the oven, either in earthen jars or in stewpans—rice baked in this way, with a proper amount of liquid and a little meat or fish, is excellent; and stock and soup can be as well prepared in the oven as on the fire. Many kinds of fish are nicer when baked than dressed in any other way; fresh cured hams may be covered with paste and then baked, and will be found very tender and of fine flavour—in fact, any process of cooking that is done in a closed vessel, and that requires gentle and regular heat, may be safely entrusted to the oven. For baking pastry the oven should be moderately hot to raise the paste, but not hot enough to burn it before it is cooked through. When the pastry has been put in, the oven door must be closed, and not opened again until the paste is thoroughly set: if the heat is checked, or allowed to escape, the pastry will fall and become tough. Raised pies require a much hotter oven than is needed for fruit tarts : it is a good plan to heat the oven by burning wood in it for an hour or so before the pie is put in. Resi- nous or scented wood must not, however, be used for this purpose. Meat pies, when sufficiently browned, should be allowed to stand on the top of the oven for an hour or more, that the meat in them may become thoroughly cooked. The paste may be covered with white paper, to preserve it from blacks or dust and from burning. Baked milky puddings, such as rice, sago, custard, etc., require a very gentle oven ; but puddings of the batter kind require more heat to raise them.METHODS OF COOKIN'^, XV Baked puddings that resemble a soufile, and that have frothed white of eggs mixed with them the moment before they are put in the oven, require a moderate heat, and should be sent to table the instant they are taken out of the oven. A sheet of white paper placed over a pudding, when it is set and slightly browned, will preserve it from burning or from becoming too dark a colour. Large cakes require a well-sustained heat, or they will not be baked through : when done they should be gently taken out of the moulds and put near the door of the oven to dry the surface, and then laid on their sides on a sieve to cool. Small cakes and gingerbread must be baked in a slow oven, but light cakes, macaroons, ratafias, etc., require rathei more heat. Bread should be baked in a moderately quick oven only, otherwise the crust hardens before the inside has been allowed time to be properly baked. All light cakes and puddings containing eggs should be baked immediately they are mixed ; it is as well also to apply this rule to those made with baking-powder. Pastry, however, made the day before it is baked, is generally far better than that made the same day, allowing of course that it is kept in a cool place during the interval, and is finally rolled out just before baking. Cake-tins should always be lined with greased paper in preference to greasing the tin itself, as in this way the chance of burning is greatly lessened; and if the paper is not re- moved until the cake has been turned out of the tin some little time, and become quite cold, the cake will remain moist and fresh much longer than otherwise. BOILING. The time required for boiling meat varies with the size and nature of the jint, and also with the kind of meat: theMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. xvi method of cooking also varies slightly. Fresh meat is gene- rally put into cold water, in the proportion of a quart of water to each pound of meat, and allowed to come gradually to the boil; the pot is then drawn aside, and the meat simmers gently until it is done. It is a good plan to place a reversed plate or dish at the bottom of the pot, to prevent the meat from resting on this and possibly adhering to it. Another way of boiling joints of fresh meat is to put them at once into boiling water, and when they have remained in it a minute, to add cold water until the temperature is reduced to tepid. After this the heat is again increased, and the joint is allowed to simmer until tender. This plan is said to keep the gravy in the meat without hardening it. Large joints require from fifteen to twenty minutes boiling to each pound of meat; smaller joints take from twelve to fifteen minutes to each pound; lamb and veal take longer than mutton or beef; a chicken takes twenty minutes; a fowl thirty or forty minutes; a turkey from an hour and a half to two hours, depending on the size; rabbits require a great deal of boiling in plenty of water, nearly or quite an hour and three-quarters. All salt meat should be soaked in cold water for at least two hours before it is required for cooking, and well washed and dried. It is put into cold water, which is allowed to come gradually to the boil, and the pot is then drawn away from the fire so that the meat can simmer gently until done. Some people consider it a good plan to let the meat boil fast for ten minutes before drawing it aside to simmer; this boiling preserves the juices, and it does not last long enough to harden the meat. The time usually allowed is a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, but this, although sufficient for small joints, is not always enough for large ones. Bacon, for instance, takes much longer to boil than salt beef, ham, or tongue. All boiled meat or poultry that is to be eaten hot should bexvii METHODS OF COOKING. taken out of the pot as soon as it is done—it will become sodden and flavourless if left too long in the water. Meat that is to be eaten cold, such as tongue or ham, should be allowed to cool in the liquor it has been boiled in ; rolled tongue and pressed spiced beef are, of course, exceptions, as they must be moulded while hot. The meat should always be covered with water, although it is not desirable that there should be a great depth of water above the joint. Fast boiling will entirely spoil the meat, and render it hard, tough, and a bad colour. The scum must be taken off as it rises, but, except when skimming is necessary, the lid should be left on the pot, and the heat, which need not be great for simmering, should be even and uninterrupted. In boiling poultry or white meats, a piece of bread without crust, and a little butter or beef suet, may be added to the water to soften it, and to keep the colour and improve the flavour of the joint. Fish should, as a rule, be placed in cold water, and brought gradually to the boil. Salmon is an exception, however, for unless placed into boiling, or nearly boiling, water it loses its beautiful colour. White fish should be rubbed over with lemon and allowed to remain in cold water for two or three hours before cooking, and when placed on the strainer of the. fish-kettle a piece of muslin should be laid over the top and carefully tucked under the fish all round; this will at once preserve the whiteness and prevent the skin from breaking. White fish, as a rule, requires, after the water boils, six minutes for every pound and ten minutes extra ' for the fish.* Salmon requires seven minutes for every pound, and ten minutes extra. Vegetables (potatoes excepted) should, as a rule, be placed in boiling water from the first. The time required for cooking them varies with different kinds of vegetables, and even with the same kind at difierent times of the year.xviii MVRAS COOKERY BOOK, A cabbage, during the process of boiling, frequently sends forth a very unpleasant odour; this, however, can be entirely obviated by boiling in two waters, i.e., changing it when the cabbage is half cooked. It is also well to place a little bread, tied up in muslin, in the saucepan with the cabbage. STEAMING. Steaming is often preferred to boiling for some kinds of food, such as potatoes, rice, vegetables, macaroni, fish, and sweet puddings. The steamer fits into the top of a sauce- pan made for the purpose, and any article that has no strong Qavour may be boiled in the water contained in the saucepan, and which provides the steam for the steamer. The food to be steamed is prepared as for boiling, and the lid of the saucepan must be firmly closed to prevent the escape of the steam. Steaming is an excellent way of warming cold puddings and meat, as it entirely preserves their original flavour. FRYING. There are two chief points on which the success of frying depends ; one is to have a sufficiency of fat to cover the articles to be fried, and the other is to have this boiling before anything is put into it. No food can be properly fried in a thin layer of warm grease, there must be plenty of it, and it must be at the right degree of heat. A deep pan is therefore necessary for frying any but very flat objects, such as soles; and an admirable plan is to put the articles to be fried into a kind of wire-work basket, which is dipped into the pan of boiling fat, and then taken out with the fried articles in it when these are cooked. If wellxix METHODS OF COOKING. covered with the fat, they are fried on both sides at once, and do not require turning, or any handling or touching, until they are removed from the basket. Butter, oil, lard, dripping, and clarified suet are all used for frying; of these, lard, dripping, and clarified suet are most used in general cooking. Olive oil answers extremely well for frying fish, and, if strained and carefully kept, can be used several times. Fat, also, may be used more than once for meat, if carefully strained and kept quite fresh. Butter is generally used only in frying vegetables for stews, when it lorms part of the gravy, and for light and delicate dishes. No fat that has been used for one kind of food should ever be used for any other kind, as it invariably con- tracts the flavour of the articles fried in it. To test the heat of the boiling fat wait till it has left off bubbling, then dip your finger in water and shake it over the pan; if the fat crackles and sputters the heat is right, and the articles can be put in. The fat used must be per- fectly fresh, clean, and free from salt, otherwise the food will be spoilt in flavour and colour. All fried food must be carefully drained before it is sent to table; it should be so dry that it scarcely leaves a trace of grease on the cloth or paper on which it is served. Omelets should be fried in a special enamelled pan kept for the purpose, and never used for any other kind of food. The butter in which they are fried must be boiling hot, but not brown, or it will spoil the colour of the omelet. BROILING. The success of broiling depends almost entirely on the brightness and clearness of the fire: there should be a steady glow at the top, without smoke or flames. MuchMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. XX can be done to improve the fire, if it is not clear, by sprink- ling a handful of salt on it. The gridiron should be perfectly clean and polished: gridirons with fluted bars and a receptacle for the gravy answer best. When hot the bars should be nibbed with suet or grease, to prevent the meat from sticking to them : chalk is used instead of grease for fish, and the gridiron is held in a sloping position over the fire. No salt should be sprinkled on the meat before broiling, as it has the effect of bringing out the gravy, which falls into the fire and is wasted. The meat, if thick, must be gradually heated through by being kept at a little distance above the fire, otherwise the outside will be burnt while the inside is nearly raw: thin meat may be broiled more briskly. Steaks, chops, and all broiled articles should be frequently turned with a pair of tongs: the holes made by a fork let the gravy out. Meat that has been dipped in egg and bread crumbs should also be dipped in clarified butter before broiling; cutlets may be seasoned a little with pepper and salt, and then brushed over with oil or butter—they are very good cooked in this way. Fish may be wrapped in buttered paper for broiling. STEWING. Fresh meat for stewing may be first gently boiled in the stewpan with the vegetables and stock, and then skimmed, but sometimes the meat is put into boiling stock or water: at other times cold water or stock, sufiicient only to provide the necessary gravy in either case, is poured over it. In French stews the meat and vegetables are browned in butter and flour in the stewpan, the hot stock is then addedxxi METHODS OF COOKING. with the seasoning and other ingredients, the lid is put on and the stewpan is placed where it will have slow but well- regulated heat, until it is ready to serve. The regulation of the heat is an important point in all stews, as the flavour of the dish depends almost entirely on the care that is taken to keep it steady and even, never too fast nor too slow, for an error in either direction will destroy the flavour, and either harden the meat or leave it insufficiently cooked. Once fairly started a stew should be interfered with as little as possible ; even raising the lid checks the process of cooking, and the fragrant steam that escapes is so much lost from the flavour. Good stock or gravy is absolutely necessary to make a rich and well flavoured stew; water or thin stock can only be used for Irish stews and similar homely family dishes. Stewing is the most economical process in cooking, as nothing is put into a stew that is not eaten, unless it is perhaps the bunch of parsley and herbs put in to flavour the gravy. No method of cooking is more easy, yet none is so often a failure, chiefly because the gravy is too thin and flavourless, and the stew is allowed to boil at a gallop, when it should simmer very gently. When cold meat is to be served as a stew, the gravy must be first made and simmered with the vegetables, seasoning, flavouring, etc., until it is of the right consist- ence ; any thickening it requires should be put in at the very first stage; the addition of flour towards the end of the cooking should be avoided as much as possible, as it does not mix well, and often gives the gravy a raw flavour. If it is necessary to thicken the gravy a little more, this should be done by adding a little butter kneaded with flour, or a little prepared white or brown roux. The gravy when thoroughly cooked is strained, if necessary, into another saucepan, and the meat, cut in neat slices and perfectlyMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. xxii free from gristle and skin, is then heated in the simmering gravy, which must never be allowed to boil. Boiling will infallibly harden the meat and destroy the flavour of the stew, which should be served as soon as the meat is thoroughly hot. Saucepans should not be used for stewing: a stewpan, with a well-fitting lid, is the only vessel fit for the purpose. Meat and vegetables that require browning before they are stewed can be fried in an ordinary stewpan, or in a deep frying pan or saute pan. Good stews can, however, be made by putting all the ingredients in an earthen jar with a well-fitting top, and putting this in a slow oven to stew gently till done. The lid of the stevv^pan or jar may be rendered air-tight by put- ting some flour-and-water paste over the opening, and removing this only when the stew is cooked. BRAISING. A braising-pan is required for this method of cooking joints, etc. This is a large or small, deep, oblong vessel of copper, with a tinned lining like a stewpan, having a very deep lid or cover, with an upright ledge all round it, to keep in the hot coals or embers that are burnt on it, to give the necessary heat above and below the article cooked. Meat and some kinds of poultry, turkeys, fowls, game, etc., are frequently braised ; slices of fat bacon are placed in the pan, and the meat is covered with more slices before it is put in. Onions, herbs, and sometimes vegetables are added ; bones and trimmings of meat are put in to add richness to the gravy, a sufficient quantity of good stock is poured over it, with any seasoning that is needed, the cover is put on, hot coals are placed on this, and the pan is placedxxiii METHODS OF COOKING, where its contents will simmer or stew very gently for two or three hours. When the meat is done it is taken out of the pan and kept hot, and the gravy is strained into a basin ; to get rid of the fat plunge the basin of gravy into cold water, and when the fat coagulates at the top take it oft*. Then boil the gravy quickly until it thickens, and pour it over the meat; if very thick, brush it over and put the meat in the oven for a few minutes to form a glaze. Delicate kinds of meat are covered with a sheet of buttered paper, to save them from being burned by the fire on the lid. GLAZING. Glaze is a thick, but clear brown gravy, produced by the continued boiling of an ordinary good made gravy until it is reduced to a third or fourth part of the original quantity, and is about the same consistence as the best treacle—when cold it becomes a jelly. Glaze is used for brushing over made dishes, and many that are eaten cold—ham, tongue, boned turkey, etc. When two or three coats of glaze are needed, as is some- times the case, each coat must be allowed to cool before the next one is put on. When cold they form a thick, brown smooth jelly all over the article glazed. LARDING. The best fat bacon should be used for larding, and slices of this, free from lean and rind, are cut into strips of equal size and thickness. For poultry, game, and small joints the strips ot bacon are two inches long and about the eighthMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. XX iv of an inch square; when the lardoons are required for large joints, or have to be taken right through the meat, the strips are longer and nearly half an inch square. Small lardoons on the breasts of birds, or on the upper surface of the meat, should be put in very regularly in intersecting lines, and at equal distances apart. To insert the lardoons, secure one end in the larding needle, and take up with the point as much of the meat to be larded as will keep the strip firm ; draw the needle through and the bacon with it, but leave the two ends out —these should be of the same length—and when the lard- ing is finished the meat should resemble a cake stuck with almonds. For larding or doubing the inside of meat, the bacon is rolled in seasoning before it is inserted: a large larding needle is used, and the strips are drawn right through the meat. Larding is a great improvement to meat or poultry of a dry nature, S Y R U P-M A K I N G. The best lump sugar should be used for making syrups, candies, and caramel; coarser sugar is less easily clarified, and there is more waste in boiling it. The sugar is broken in large lumps into the preserving pan, and a pint of water is allowed to each pound of sugar for syrups, or about a third of a pint of water if the sugar is to be candied. To clarify this half the white of one egg is enough for six pounds of sugar. Beat the white of egg to a light froth, alone first, then add it to the water and beat the two together. When well mixed pour the greater part of the water on to the sugar, and let this stand until dissolved ; stir well, put the pan onMETHODS OF COOKING. XXV the fire, and let the syrup boil for five minutes without disturbing it. Take the pan off the fire, let it stand tw^o minutes, and then skim carefully and thoroughly. Put the pan back on the fire, and when the syrup begins to boil pour in a little of the water that was left over. Repeat the skimming until the syrup is quite clear, and then strain through muslin into a clean pan to be boiled again. There are several degrees of boiling sugar which may be learnt most accurately by means of a syrometer, but which may be judged of with a considerable degree of correctness by the ordinary thumb and finger test. The first stage is that of a thin syrup; if the finger is dipped in water and then in the liquid, and pressed against the thumb and quickly withdrawn, the syrup will form short threads that snap directly. Another five or ten minutes of rapid boiling will bring it to the second stage of a thick syrup, and the threads may then be drawn out to a great length without breaking. Long threads will also fall from the skimmer when this is raised. In the next two stages the syrup forms bubbles on the surface in boiling, small at first and then large; if it is intended to make barley sugar or caramel the flavouring of lemon juice must now be added, but for candying the syrup is simply stirred until it rises in white foam almost to the top of the pan. It must now be taken out instantly and put on dishes, or it will resolve itself into a powder that will require more water and reboiling. Stirring is necessary in making barley-sugar, after the lemon juice is put in, which is at the rate of a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice to three pounds of sugar. To test the barley-sugar, drop a little from the ladle or skimmer into a basin of cold water, take it out at once, and if it snaps clean and crisp between the teeth it is done, and must be taken off the fire immediately.xxvi MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Caramel is the last stage of syrup making; the sugar becomes a dark yellow colour, and emits a strong odour. The pan must be drawn away from the fire, and a little water thrown into it. In making orange-flower or cocoa-nut candy, these are thrown into the boiling syrup after it has been clarified and skimmed, and when it is very thick and white. It is then stirred until it rises in a mass, when it must be taken out immediately and laid on sheets of fine white paper. There is no great difficulty in making syrups and candies, but they require great care and constant watching, as if left on the fire a moment too long the syrup may be entirely spoilt, and be either wasted or require re-boiling. PRESERVING. In preserving fruit the pan containing it should at first be subjected to gentle heat, until the sugar is melted; the heat may then be increased until the boiling point is reached. Steady, regular heat must then be continued the whole time, together with constant stirring, or the fruit will burn and the preserve be rendered uneatable. The pots when filled must be left until they are stone cold before covering. The best way to do this is, first, to lay on the jam a round of tissue paper the exact size of the jar, and press it down. A second round of tissue paper, cut larger than the jar, is dipped on one side in beaten white of egg, laid over the top, and pressed down round the rim. The white of egg on the inner side will make the paper adhere firmly to the jar, and the top, when dry, will have the consistence of parchment.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION I.—SOUPS. 1.—SOUP STOCK (Quickly made) d la Minute, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Raw beef I lb. ... Cut into slices. 2... Carrot I lb. ... do. 3-- Onion I lb. ... do. 4... Celery I lb. ... do. 5- Turnip I lb. ... do. 6... Cloves 2 7... Mix them all in a saucepan. 8... Water I quart ... Pour over. g... Salt I pinch ... Sprinkle over. 10... Boil 15 minutes. II... Take off the fire. 12... Skim w^hile off the fire. 13... Strain through a sieve. 14... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into the tureen. 15... Pour the stock over. 16... Chervil I handful Chop fine and sprinkle over stock. Note.—The chervil can be omitted if not liked. The meat and vegetables are eaten in France after the soup. 2.-AN0THER QUICKLY-MADE STOCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Gravy from roast meat I quart , ipint , Boil it. Add the gravy, and use it as stock for soups, gravies, &c.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 2 3.—SOUP STOCK, ^cide in an hour. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Beef, mutton or veal Carrots Turnips Onion Burnt onion Fat bacon Water Boiling water Salt I lb. I or 2 I or 2 I... I... i pint I quart . I pinch . Cut into small slices, and put into a stewpan or saucepan. Cut lengthways, do. Stick a clove in the onion. Add to colour the soup. Cut into small pieces. Mix the whole with the meat. Pour over. Let all simmer over a slow fire until it begins to stick to the bottom of the stewpan or saucepan. Pour over. Sprinkle over. Let all boil on a quick fire f hour. Skim off the fat. Strain through a sieve or cloth. 4.—SOUP STOCK, the French Pot-au-feu, ' Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Beef, or Mutton, or Veal Old fowl, old pigeon, old partridge, rabbits Bones from roast meat Cold water 4 lbs. 4 lbs. 4 lbs. I quart to each pound of meat Shin, or leg of beef should be chosen, as it makes the best stock. Can be used when not too fat. For invalids most strengthening. Are excellent added to increase the flavour. Chopped, and thrown into the pot, add gelatine. Place the meat, which ought to be very fresh, on the chopped bones at the bottom of the pot; the meat should be tied up with string. Pour over 4 hours before serving.3 SOUPS. SOUP STOCK {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Salt I handful Add. 7... 8... ... ... Put the pot on the fire till it begins to boilj then dravt^ to one side. Let it only simmer. When the v^ater boils too fast it prevents the scum rising by coagulating the Albumen. 9... Watei I tea-cup ful Skim carefully. If the pot has boiled too quickly, add cold w^ater to make the scum rise. 10... Large carrots 3 Cut lengthways and throw into the pot. II... Turnips 2 do. 12... Onion I do. 13... Leeks Tie up a bunch and add. 14... Burnt onion... I To colour the stock. 15... Garlic I clove ... Add if liked, but not during hot weather as garlic prevents stock from keeping well. 16... ... ... Let it simmer 5 or 6 hours. 17... Hot stock or water Add as the stock evaporates to keep the meat covered. 18... Parsley I bunch... Tie up and add i hour before serving. 19... Stale bread ... 3 oz. ... Cut into thin slices and put into the tureen. 20... ... Skim the grease off the stock; if time allows do this when the stock is cold. 21... ... ... Take out the vegetables with the skimmer. 22... Take out the meat. 23-- Place a sieve or cloth over the tureen. 24... ... Pour over gradually at first, to allow the bread to swell. 25... Chopped cher- vil or grated parmesan ... If liked ... Sprinkle over the soup. 26... Keep the remainder of the stock covered in a cool place. 27... In warm weather, boil it up each day. 28... Bag of char- coal Plunge into the pot while on the fire in warm weather. This prevents it turning sour. B 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4 5.—POT-AU-FEU {another Recife). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef 4 lbs. . Roll and tie with string. 2... Mutton 4 lbs. . do. J"' Put the meat in a saucepan. 4... Water 6 quarts Pour over the meat. 5... Salt I handful Add. 6... Put the saucepan on a slow fire, and take off the scum as it rises. 7... Onion I N Stick with cloves. 8... Maee I piece g,.. 10... Leek Celery I I head Tie all together m a bunch and put II... Chervil in the saucepan. 12... Herbs ... 13... Pepper To taste. 14... Carrots 4 Add. 15... Turnips 4 Add. 16... ... Boil all together gently for 4 or 5 hours. 17... ... Remove the meat and the bunch of herbs, etc. 18... Take the string off the meat. ig... Skim the broth. 20 .. Bread Cut in thin slices into the tureen. 21... Pour a portion of the broth gently through a sieve on to the bread; when this is swelled pour in the remainder of the broth. 22... Chervil I handful Chop fine and throw in if liked. 23... ... Serve the vegetables and meat 1 separately. 6. -CHICKEN BROTH. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. Chicken One Dress and cut up. 2.. Put the pieces in a stewpan. 3-- Salt I pinch.. Sprinkle over. 4.. Cold water .. I quart.. Pour over till all is covered. 5" Put it on the fire. 6.. Boil it up one minute.SOUPS. 5 CHICKEN BROTH (continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... Skim. 8... Pearl barley 3 table- Add if liked rice or hominy spoonsfu 9... Let it simmer till reduced to half the quantity. 10... Strain through a sieve. 7-CHICKEN BROTH, (anothey Method.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Old fowl Truss and tie up with string. 2... Put into a pot. Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 4... Water Pour over till all is covered. Put it to boil on a slow fire. 6... Skim as the scum rises. 7... Carrots 2Z 8... Turnips 2... 9... Onions 2... 10... Leek I... Add immediately after skimming. II... Parsley I bunch tied to- gether ^ 12... ••• ••• Let it boil 3 hours. 13- Take out the fowl and vegetables, and serve separately. 14... Stale bread... Cut in slices into a tureen. 15... Strain the soup over and serve. 8.-MUTTON BROTH. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method I... Neck 2 or 3 lbs. Put it in the saucepan. 2... Water or stock I quart per Let it boil 2 hours and skim. lb. of meatMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 6 MUTTON BROTH {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 4... Turnips Celery > Cut into 6... Carrots j pieces Add. 7... 8... Onion with a clove in it ... Pearl barley... If liked j 9... Let it simmer over a slow fire 4 or 5 hours. 10... Skim off the fat. II... Stale bread ... Toast and cut in small pieces. 12... Put the pieces of bread at the bottom of the soup tureen. 13... Place a cullender over the tureen and pour the soup in. 14... Serve the vegetables separately. 9.—MEAT BROTH or Consomme. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Beet 2 lbs. 2... Old fowl (half roasted be- forehand) ... I 3-- Calf's foot ... I lb. 4... Oddsand ends of meat clear- ed from fat... I lb. 5... Water or cold stock 2 quarts... Put together in a saucepan over a slow fire. 6... Skim as t]:e scum rises. 7... Boil 2 or 3 hours without stopping. 8... Turnips 2 Add. 9... Carots 2 do. 10... Celery ^ stick ... do. II... Onions stuck with I clove 2 do.- 12... Salt and pep- per do.SOUPS. 7 MEAT BROTH or Consomme (continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13- Bunch of thyme and bay Add. 14... Let it simmer till there only remains I quart or rather less of broth. 15... Strain through a sieve. lO.-VEGETABLE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots 2 Peel all the vegetables, cut them into 2... Turnips 2 ribbons, then cut them across into Parsnips 2 very thin strips. 4... Potatoes 2 5- Cabbage 2 leaves... 6... Leek I I Cut into slices. 7... 8... Celery Onions ^ stick ... 2 small ... ) 9... Lettuce 2 leaves... 10... Sorrel 2or3leaves II... Chervil If liked ... Chop and mix with all the rest. 12... Fresh butter 2 ozs. ... Put to melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 13... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 14... Throw all the prepared vegetables into the butter. 15- Mix well with a wooden spoon. 16... Meat stock or water According to num- ber of guests Pour over and let it simmer i hour. 17... Green peas ... I table 18... Asparagus spoonful I table 1 Add 1 hour before serving. heads spoonful 19... Stale bread (or Place in the tureen. rice already boiled) 20... Pour the boiling soup over. 21... Tomato sauce 2or3 table Add if liked, when in season. spoonsfulMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 11-THICK VEGETABLE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. French beans Lentils Peas Stock Carrot Onions Stock Crumb of stale bread Butter I lb. C ) each. 2 quarts. I... 2... Slice. Put to boil in a large saucepan. Add. Crush the vegetables when cooked, and pass them through a cullen- der into another saucepan. Add gradually to thin the soup. Put it on to boil 20 minutes. Cut in different patterns. Melt in a frying pan. Fry the bread on a slow fire, When fried put the bread in a tureen. Strain the soup over, and serve. 12.-VEGETABLE SOUP, {a pur4e.) Order. 1 j Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... Haricot >^ beans Peas Lentils Lettuce Carrots Turnips Parsnips Celery Leeks Onions ^ Boiling water Butter Flour Stock Any of them ac- cording to the season, to make when mashed i quart, or weigh I lb. I oz. I pinch I pint 1 S:rape, peel, wash, and cut up into ' a saucepan. Pour over to whiten them. Drain. Melt in another saucepan. Mix with the buttes". Add gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. Throw in the prepared vegetables. Pour over. 16... 17... 1 Boiling stock 1 2 quartsSOUPS. 9 VEGETABLE SOUP, a pur4e (contittued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. i8... Salt and pepper Add. 19... When the vegetables are done, take them off the fire, pour into a cul- lender, and press through into another saucepan. 20... When all are through, put the sauce- pan on the fire. 21... Stale bread ... Cut into pieces. 22... Butter I oz. Melt in a fi-ying pan over a slow fire. 23... Fry the bread. 24... Pour the soup into a tureen, and put the fried bread on the top. 25... Serve hot. 13.-GREEN PEA SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Green Peas ... I quart ... Shelled. 2... Onions 3 Cut in quarters or slices. 3" Lettuces 3 Washed and shredded. 4... Mint 6 leaves... 5... Ham 2 slices ... Cut thin. 6... Butter 2 ozs. ... Melt in a saucepan. 7... Water I quart ... Stew the peas, onions, lettuces, mint, ham and butter, in water gently for one hour. 8... Stock 3 pints ... Add to the foregoing. 9... French Rolls 2 Add the crumb only. 10... Boil for one hour. II... Spinach 2 good handsful Boil, squeeze dry and add to the soup to colour it. 12... Rub the soup through a sieve. 13-. Young Peas... I pint ... Boil separately and add to the soup. 14... Sugar I lump ... Add to the soup, boil up and s^rve,10 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 14.-~CABBAGE SOUP. 1 er. In redients ngre len s. Qu3.ntiti6s. I... Spring cab- bage I Wash well and cut into slices or quarters. 2... Put the slices in a pan. Boiling water Pour over. Let the cabbage steep ten minutes to whiten it. Drain through a sieve. 6... Slices bacon... 4 slices ... Place at the bottom of a stewpan. '7... Put the slices of cabbage above* 8... n Pickled Pork Sausage ... do. i Place above the cabbage. ) 10... Carrots 2... II... Turnips 2 12... Onions 2 13- Leek I 14... Celery ^ stick ... Cut in slices and add. 15... Stock, ormeat To cover Pour over till the whole is covered. broth 16... Let it boil two hours. 17... Potatoes Add if liked one hour before serving. 18... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 19... Pour in the soup and serve. Note.—This soup is not good warmed up. Beef may be used instead of bacon. 15.-LENTIL SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3"' 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Lentils Stock Carrot Onions Stock Stale bread ... I lb. ... I quart. . I 2 ^ pint ... 1 Boil all together. When soft press through a cullender. Pour into the cullender to help the vegetables through. Boil 15 or 20 minutes. Cut into a tureen, pour the soup over and serve.SOUPS. II le.-HARICOT BEAN SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White hari- I pint ... Let them steep all night, wash and cots drain them. 2... Carrots 2 3- Onion I 4... Stock I quart ... y Add to the beans, and boil altogether. 5- Salt and pepper 6... Put a cullender on another saucepan. 7... Pour the vegetables in and press them through. 8... Put the saucepan on the fire again. 9... Butter I oz. Mix with the soup. 10... Let it simmer 15 or 20 minutes. II... Stale bread ... Cut into a tureen. 12... Pour the soup over and serve. 17.-ONION SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 6 Peel, cut into slices, then chop. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3-.- Put the onions in and let them brow«, stirring to prevent burning. 4... Flour I dessert Sprinkle over when the butter h spoonful half-browned. 5... 6... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. When the contents of the saucepaa are quite brown, draw it away from the fire. 7... Hot water ... 3 pints ... Pour over gradually, put the sauca- pan on the fire again and let it boil 10 minutes. 8... 9... Yolks of eggs Milk I or 2 ... I or 2 table spoonsful 1 Beat up together in a bowl with a J wooden spoon. 10... Take the saucepan off the fire, and when the contents no longer boil, pour in the eggs, &c., stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. II... Stale bread ... Cut into a tureen. 12... Pour the hot soup over the bread, let it stand a minute and serve.12 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 18-ONION SOUP WITH CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 2... Onions ... 6... Cut in thin slices and blanch in boil- ing water. 3"- Throw them into the hot butter, but do not brown them. 4... Flour I dessert spoonful Sprinkle over the onions, and stir them with a wooden spoon. 5- • Water or white stock I quart ... Add. 6... Salt, pepper... To taste, but very little salt is re* quired. 7... 8... 0***1 t- J * Stale bread ... ... Let it boil up. Cut in thin slices into the tureen. 9... Gruyere i"\h. Grate very fine. cheese 10... Parmesan i lb. do. cheese II... Mix the two kinds of cheese together and put a layer on the bread. 12... Pour some of the soup on the bread. 13- Put in another layer of bread sprin- kled with cheese, and pour in the remainder of the soup. 14... Let it stand for | hour, but keep the tureen very hot. Note.—The soup can be improved by adding half a pint of boiling cream to it before pouring it into the tureen. 19.-SPINACH SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sorrel i lb. ... 2... Lettuce i lb. ... Wash in a pan through several 3- Chervil I OZ. > waters, and carefully pick the 4... Spinach 2 lbs. spinach. 5- Parsley 3 sprigs... 6... Chop coarsely and mix. 7... 8... Butter I OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Put in all the chopped leaves. 9... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over.SOUPS, i:i SPINACH SOUP {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. lO... ••• ... Stir all up together with a wooden spoon, taking care not to let it burn. II... Meat stock ... 3 pints ... Pour over. 12... ... Let it simmer 20 or 30 minutes. 13... Butter I oz. Add if liked just before it is done. 14... Bread Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 15... Pour the boiling soup on to the bread. 16... Yoke of egg... I or 2 ... 17... Stock or 2or3 table 1 Beat together in a bowl. cream spoonsful 18... When the soup has quite ceased boiling, pour in the contents of the bowl, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. ig... Let it remain 5 minutes drawn back from the fire. 20... Serve it up hot. 20.-SPLIT-PEA SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Split peas ... I pint Put to soak at least 12 hours in water, to which a large pinch of salt has been added. 2... Drain and throw away the water. 3- Put the peas into a saucepan. 4... Water Cover the peas with it. 5- Carrots 6... Turnips i ' Peel, cut lengthways and add 7... 8... Potatoes Leek .. I... ] g... 10... Celery Chervil I stick If liked Add in a bunch. II... Onions 2 or 3 ^ 12... Let all simmer i^ hours, stirring from time to time with a wooden spoon to prevent burning.14 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SPLIT-PEA SOUP, {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... ... Take out the onions, leek, and chervil. 14... Put all the rest into a cullender over another saucepan. 15... Press through the cullender with a w^ooden spoon. i6... Stock 3 pints ... Add gradually, stirring 17... Rice, cooked Put into a tureen. b ef orehand, or bread fried in butter. 18... Pour the soup over and serve. 21.-P0TAT0 AND SORREL SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I Sorrel I handful Chop fine. 2 Butter I oz. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3 When the butter is melted, add the chopped sorrel. 4 Salt and pep- Sprinkle over, and stir well with a per wooden spoon. 5 Keep it hot. 6 Potatoes 6 Peel and cut into slices. 7... Water 3 pints ... Pour with the potatoes into another 8... 9... saucepan, and let them boil. When the potatoes are ready, place a cullender over the saucepan with the sorrel in. Pour the potatoes and the water they have boiled in, into the cullender. 10... Let the water run through, and mix it well with the sorrel. II... Pour into the tureen. 12... Put the slices of potato above the sorrel instead of bread. 13.,. Serve hot.15 SOUPS. 22-SORREL SOUP WITH CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Sorrel Butter Flour Water Salt, pepper. Cream Yolk of egg . Stale bread . 2 hands- full .. 2 oz. I dessert spoon- ful 3 pints .. I pint .. Wash and pick, and chop fine with a knife. Melt together the sorrel and butter. Sprinkle in and stir well to mix the ingredients. Add. To taste. Add when the soup begins to boil. Beat up in the cream. Cut in slices into a tureen. Pour the soup on to the bread and serve. 23- PUMPKIN SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... Pumpkin I quarter Peel and take out the seeds., 2... Cut into dice. 3- Water or milk 3 quarts Boil in a saucepan. 4... When it boils throw in the pumpkin. 5- Salt or sugar Add. 6... Let it boil till soft. 7... Mash well with a wooden spoon. 8... Let it simmer, uncovered, on the fire. Strain into another saucepan. 9... 10... Pour away the water. II... Put the cullender on the saucepan again. 12... Milk or water 2 or 3 drops ... Pour over the pumpkin to help it to pass through the cullender. 13... Butter 2 oz. Add to the pumpkin when it has all Milk Sugar and salt I pint "> I pinch ) passed through 14... 15... Boil in another saucepan. 16... When the milk boils pour it gradually on to the crushed pumpkin, stirring continually with a wooden spoon.i6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, PUMPKIN SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 17... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 18... Pour the soup over. 19... Orange flower I tea- Add (if liked and if you have used water spoonful sugar). 20... Serve hot. 24-SOUPE MAIGRE (without Meat). Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. Fresh or dried vegetables Cold water with dried vegetables Boiling water with fresh vegetables Salt, pepper Stale bread .. Butter Yolks of eggs Water 2 lbs. 2 quarts 2 quarts \ pint Put in a saucepan. Pour over the vegetables in sufficient quantity to cover them well. Flavour to taste. Boil thoroughly. Cut in thin slices and place at the bottom of the soup tureen. Put a strainer on the tureen. Pour the boiling soup into it. Add to the soup in the tureen. Beat up in a basin. Add to the eggs drop by drop, mixing them together with a wooden spoon. Pour the mixture gradually into the soup, when it has ceased boiling, and serve. 25.-VEGETABLE SOUP, (Without Meat). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots 2 Cut into dice. 2... Parsnips 2 do. 3- Turnips 2 do. 4... Onions 2 do.17 SOUPS. VEGETABLE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Qaantities. Method. 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13.- 14... 15... 16... J./... 18... 19... 20... 21... 22... Leeks Butter Sorrel Celery Lettuce Chervil Green peas ... French beans Asparagustops Broad beans... Boiling water Salt, pepper... Butter Bread 26.-CA 2 i lb. ... 6 leaves... i stick ... I I handful 1 pint ... 3 c[uarts... 2 oz. Cut in slices lBBAGE do. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Put in the vegetables and brown lightly Chop fine and add to the browned vegetables, do. do. do. Add when in season if liked, do. do. do. Stir the vegetables in the saucepan gently 2 or 3 times with a wooden spoon. Pour over the vegetables. Flavour to taste. Boil for 3 hours. Add to the soup and stir well. Pour the soup into the tureen. Fry in butter and add to the soup; serve very hot. SOUP (without meat). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-. 4... Cabbages Boiling water Salt, pepper... 2 2 quarts Choose young cabbages and take off the outer leaves. Cut the hearts in small pieces into a shallow basin filled with water. Throw the cabbage into a saucepan of boiling water, after draining it from the cold water. Add to taste. ci8 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CABBAGE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients Quantities Method. 5- Butter 2 OZ. Add. 6... Crust of bread I Add. 7... Carrots 2 Cut in dice and add. 8... Onions 2 do. 9... Turnips 2 do. 10... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into the tureen. II... Pour the boiling soup gradually on to the bread to swell it. 12... Let it stand for ^ hour and serve very hot. Note.—This soup cannot be warmed up again. 27-FLOUR SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Fine flour ... Cold water ... 3 table- spoonsful A few drops. i^ pint ... If liked... I Mix in a saucepan with a wooden I spoon. 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Miik Salt & sugar Take care to leave no lumps. Add gradually while mixing, and stir 8 minutes. Sprinkle over. Put it on the fire and stir one way all the time. Let it boil a few minutes. Pour into the tureen and serve. 2 ,8.-RICE SOUP (I). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... Rice Water 3 table- spoonsful Put into a soup plate. Pour over till all is covered. Let it steep 3 hours. Wash well and let it drain.19 SOUPS. RICE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Milk 2 quarts Boil in a saucepan 6... When the milk boils throw in the rice. 7... 8... 9... Draw to the side of the fire. Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. Let it simmer gently 3 hours. 10... Sait Z I pinch Sprinkle over. II... Powd. sugar 2 spoons- Sprinkle over. ful 12... When a skin forms on the top it is done. 29.-RICE SOUP (11). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carolina rice 4 oz. Put into a pan and wash in several waters, rubbing between the hands. 2... Drain well. 3-. Cold stock ... Ipint ... Pour on to the rice, and leave it till absorbed. 4... Hot stock ... 2 quarts Pour over the rice. 5- Salt and pep- Sprinkle over very slightly, because per the stock is already seasoned. 6... Veal gravy ... I pint ... Add at will to give a better flavour. 7... Let all simmer ^ hour without stirring until the grains are soft, but not mashed. 8... Pour into a tureen and serve. 30.-RICE SOUP (III) .-(Simpler). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock I quart ... Warm in a saucepan. 2... Boiled rice .. 2 ozs. ... Throw into the boiling stock and let it simmer i hour. 3... When served the rice should be firm. c 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 31.- -RICE MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carolina rice 4 oz. Wash well in several waters, and let it soak 2 or three hours in the last water. 2... Put it with the water into a saucepan on the fire, and let it boil till the rice has absorbed the water. 3... Milk 2 quarts... Boil in another saucepan. 4... ... When the milk boils pour it over the rice. 5... Stir well for a ^ hour. 6... Salt !!! I pinch ) y..\ 8... Sugar Bay-leaf I pinch > j Add. 9... Let it boil another ^ hour. 10... When the rice is done it will be soft, but not mashed. II.. ... ... When the soup is done a skim forms at the top. 12... ... Take out the bay-leaf. 13... Put the saucepan near you on the stove. lA... Yolks of eggs 2... Break in a bowl. 15... Cold milk ... 2 tea- spoonsful PoTir drop by drop on the eggs, mixing with a spoon. 16... When the milk has ceased boiling, add the eggs and stir. 17... Serve. 32.-MAIZS SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Maize flour ... Milk, water, or broth Salt & sugar Butter 3 table spoonsful li pint If liked I oz. I Mix in an enamelled saucepan. Put it on a slow fire. Stir constantly to prevent lumps. Let it simmer i hour. Add. Add when nearly done. When the soup is quite liquid, serve.SOUPS. 21 33.-SAGO SOUR Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 4... Stock Sago ... I quart ... 3 table spoons- ful to each pint of stock Put to boil in a saucepan. Pour by degrees into the boiling stock. Let it simmer J hour. Pour it into the tureen and serve hot. 34- -SAGO MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Milk Sago Salt Sugar to taste I quart ... 3 table- spoonsful to each pint of milk I pinch 1 Put to boil in a saucepan. Pour gradually into the boiling milk. Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. Sprinkle with one hand and stir with the other. Let it simmer ^ hour. Pour into a tureen and serve. 35-MACARONI SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. V Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Naples mac- aroni Clear stock ... Parmesan cheese Mustard Salt Loaf sugar ... 3 OZ. ... 3 pints ... 2 table spoonsful I teaspoon ful I pinch ... I pinch ... Soak ^ nour in cold water and cut into inch lengths. Drain and put in a stewpan. Boil and pour over. 1 |Add.22 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MACARONI SOUP {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... g... 10... II... Stock Marsala wine ••• •.« I quart ... I wine glass Let it simmer i hour, stirring frC" quently. Add. Add. Boil slowly 10 minutes longer, and serve with a separate dish of grated Parmesan cheese. 36- -VERMICELLI SOUP. Follow the preceding receipt, substituting vermicelli for macaroni, and boiling lo minutes less. 37.-SEMOLINA SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Stock Semolina Salt, pepper... I quart ... 8 dessert spoonsful Put to boil in a saucepan. Drop it into the boiling stock, stirring all the time. Boil it f hour, stirring constantly to prevent lumps. Sprinkle over. Pour into a tureen and serve. 38.-SEMOLINA MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2.;. 3-- 4... 5... Milk Semolina Powrd. sugar Flavouring ... I quart ... 6 dessert spoonsful I tea- spoonful to taste Put to boil in a saucepan. Drop into the boiling milk, stirring with the other hand. Boil 1 hour stirring all the time to prevent lumps. / Add. Pour into a tureen and \ serve.23 SOUPS. 39-TAPIOCA SOUP (I). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water I quart ... Boil in a saucepan. 2... Tapioca 4 dessert Sprinkle into the boiling water, spoons- stirring with the other hand. ful 3- Let it boil, still stirring. 4.... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5- Butter 20Z. Add, constantly stirring. 6... Let it boil f hour. 7... Pour into a tureen and serve. 40.-TAPIOC- k SOUP (II). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock or milk Rather Put into a saucepan on the fire, and more let it boil well. than J pint per head 2... Tapioca I dessert Pour into the boiling liquid, stirring spoonful with the other hand. per head 3- Boil f hour, stirring all the time to prevent lumps. 4... Salt Add. 5-- When the tapioca is done, it will be transparent. 41.-MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fresh milk ... I quart ... Pour into a saucepan. 2... Salt I pinch ... Sprinkle in while on the fire. 3- Butter I oz. Add if hked. 4... Take the milk off the fire as soon as it boils. 5.. Stale bread .. Cut into a tureen. 6.. Pour the boiling milk over. 7- Powd. sugar To taste Add if liked. 8.. Let it soak an instant, then serve.24 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 42—BREAD SOUP, oy Panada, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Crusts of I lb. ... bread 2... Stock I quart ... Salt and pepper 4... 5-- Fresh butter... 2 oz. 6... 7... 8... 9... Yolk of egg ... I 10... Milk or cream few drops II... Method. Break in small pieces into a saucepan. Pour over the bread. Season well to take away the insipid taste of the bread. Let it simmer on a slow fire i hour. Add before taking off the fire. Mix with a wooden spoon. Let it boil a few minutes. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. ) Beat up gently, and add to the j soup when it has done boiling. Serve. Note.—For children this can be made entirely with milk. 43.-PORCEMEAT-BALL SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eggs Milk Butter Salt White pepper Flour Flour Butter Boiling stock 1 pint 1 2 oz. ( I pinch f I pinch I pinch 4 1b. 3 pints Mix to a paste in a pan with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle over a paste-board. Pour the contents of the pan over. Roll into balls or ovals. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Put the balls in to fry. When they are brown, put them in the soup tureen. Pour over the balls and serve.SOUPS. 25 44-BOURGEOIS SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... Butter, drip- ping or lard Onion Tomato Salt and pep- per Vegetable stock ... Burnt onion... Butter Stale bread in slices 45.-1^ i lb. ... I large ) I f I quart ... ... I oz. DALIAN Put in a saucepan over a slow fire. Let it brown. Cut in quarters and throw into the saucepan. Sprinkle over for seasoning. Pour into the saucepan, a little at a time. Let it simmer f of an hour on a slow fire. Strain the soup into another sauce- pan. Put it again on the fire. Throw in. Add if liked. Cut into a tureen, add the soup, and serve. PASTE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 • 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... Fresh butter... Baked flour ... Yolk of egg ... Cold water ... Stock Parmesan cheese Marsala wine I oz. ) 4OZ. f ^ . ) 1 Wine > glass ) 2 quarts... 3 table- spoons- ful ^wine gls. Rub together till perfectly mixed. Beat up together and stir into the flour. Knead it into a stiff" paste and roll out as thin as a shilling. Cut into strips an inch long and the eighth of an inch broad. Set it in a cool airy place for 5 or 6 hours. Boil. Put in the paste. Grate and add. Add. Boil fast 20 minutes and serve with grated Parmesan on a dish.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 26 46.-RICE AND TOMATO SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 1 oz. W^ash well in cold water. 2... Water I pint ... Swell the rice in this on a slow fire. o . D'" Butter ^ oz. ... Add. 4... Salt To taste. 5... Boil for twenty minutes. 6... Tomatoes 4. ... Skin and cut them in pieces, boil for a minute or two, and press them through a sieve. 7... Water or I or ij Add as much as may be required. stock quart 8... Cayenne A small pinch if liked. g... Butter I oz. If the soup is made with water stir in the butter before serving. 47.-ALMOND SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Neck of veal Scrag-end of neck of mut- ton Turnip Water Almonds Thick cream Cayenne pep per French rolls... Jordan al- monds I lb. I lb. I lb. .. 5 quarts 6 oz. ^ pint .. To taste 3 2 oz. Chop into small pieces and put into a large stewpan. Cut into the stewpan. Add. Set it on the fire and let it boil gently till reduced to 2 quarts. Strain through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan. Blanch, beat fine, and add. Add. Add. Have ready small round dinner rolls. Blanch, cut lengthways, and stick slantways round the edge of the rolls and over the top. When you dish up, pour the soup upon the rolls. Note.—These rolls look like hedge-hogs, and hence the name of hedge-hog soup has been given to it by French cooks.SOUPS. 27 48.-0X-CnEEK SOUR Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-.. 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13..- 14... 15... Ox-cheek bones Sait Butter Shank of ham Celery Large onions Carrots Parsnip ... Beetroot Water Vermicelli ... 2 lbs. ... 2 OZ. i lb. ... A stick ... 1 \ 2 slices ) 4 quarts 2 OZ. Break and wash till perfectly clean. Lay them in warm water. Throw in to bring out the slime. Put into a large stewpan and lay the fleshy side of the cheek-bone on it. Cut in slices and add. Cut into the soup. Slice and add. Set over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Add and let it stew till reduced to 2 quarts. Strain into a tureen. Scald and add. Serve. 49.-MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Scald with the skin on, taking out the bones, and cut into pieces about 2 inches square. Wash and clean these well and put into a stewpan, boil for i hour. Put into another stewpan. Add. Stew these well till the broth be re- duced to 2 quarts, then strain into the stewpan containing the head. Calf's head ... Stock Onion Carrots Shank of ham Head of celery Cloves Peppercorns, Sweet herbs... Lemon Peel.. 3 quarts.. I or 2 3 or 4 I bunch A littleMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. zS MOCK TURTLE SOUP {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J pep- Knotted marjoram Savoury Thyme Parsley Cloves Cayenne per Green onions Shalot Mushrooms Madeira or Marsala Stock Flour Yolk of eggs Lemon juice. Boiled force- meat balls.. A sprig each A pinch aora } 10 small \ pint .. I teacup- ful I tea- spoonful J lemon Chop and add. Add. Chop and add. Chop and add. Add. Stew all these together gently till the soup be reduced to 2 quarts. Heat in another saucepan. Mix smooth in it. Add. Keep stirring these over a gentle fire till near boilmg. Add this to the soup, stirring as it is poured in. Let all stew together i hour or more. Add when you take it off the fire. 50-HARE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Large old hare Blades of mace Salt Large onions Red herring .. Red wine Water I pinch i pint 3 quarts J Dress, wash, dry, and cut into joints, then cut into small pieces and put in a baking dish. Add.29 SOUPS. HARE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... ... ... Bake 3 hours in a quick oven. 9... Strain into a stewpan. 10... Sago 3 oz. ... Have ready in v^ater. II... Liver of the Put 2 minutes in scalding water, and hare rub it through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. 12... Put it into the soup with the sago. 13... Butter Add. 14... ... Set over the fire and keep stirring, but do not let it boil. Ol. —IrAKix llJJU-Jij bUUlr. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I. Old part- 2 Dress, skin and cut into small pieces. ridges Ham 3 Slices ... Add. J'" Celery I stick Add! 4... Unions ... 2 or 3 ... Slice and add. Butter 2 oz. Fry all in butter till perfectly brown, but take great care not to burn them. 6... Put them in a stewpan. 7... Water 3 quarts Add. Q 0... Peppercorns... 5 Add. 9... Boil slowly till reduced to about a pint. 10... Strain into a tureen. II... Fried bread ... Add. 12... Stewed celery Add. 13... Serve. 52.-S STRONG FISH-STOCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fish 4 lbs. ... All kinds of fresh-water fish, and most salt-water fish, together with any heads or other remains of fresh fish, can be used for this I 1 stock.30 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. STRONG FISH-STOCK {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... Carrots 2 Scrape and clean, and cut in dice. 3- Onions 2 Cut in quarters. 4... Celery I head ... 5... Shalots 2 6... Butter 2 oz, Melt on the fire, and fry the vege- tables in it. 7... 8... Herbs Salt, pepper... A bunch Parsley, thyme, marjoram, &c. To taste. 9... Water 2 quarts 10... White wine... k pint ... Add to the water. II... Cut the fish in pieces, and put them with the fried vegetables and the herbs in the water. 12... Boil gently for three hours, skimming it as the scum rises. 13 Strain through a hair sieve, and use as required. 53.-BOUILLABAISSE {a fish soup.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carp I lb. 2... Perch I lb. 1 Wash, scale and clean the fish; cut them in nice pieces, and put them 3- Whiting I lb. V 4... Gurnet I lb. 1 in a saucepan. 5... Tench I lb. J 6... Mussels 20 shelled Add to the fish. 7... 8... Salad oil Onions i pint .. 5 cut in\ quarters 1 Pour in gradually. Add to the fish, with cloves stuck in 9... Bay leaf I 1 the onions. 10... Lemon 2 slices J II... Salt, Pepper... Sufficient to flavour. 12 .. Cold water or 2 quarts Pour over the fish until all is Fish stock... covered.SOUPS. 31 BOUILLABAISSE (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... White wine ... ^ pint ... Add to the stock or water. 14... Powdered saf- I tea- Add. fron spoonful 15... Boil on a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour. 16... Parsley root... I To be scraped and added to the soup. 17... Boil up quickly. 18... Toast In sip- Soak them in the soup and put in a pets deep dish. 19... Pour in the soup through a sieve, and dress the pieces of fish nicely in the dish. Note.—This dish is a kind of stew of fish, and both fresh and salt-water fish can be used for it, such as plaice, soles, &c. It should be highly spiced. 54.-PISH SOUP WITH HERBS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fish stock Lettuces Sorrel Chervil Celery Eggs Fish stock Stale bread pint 2 I hand- ful I hand- ful I head 2 yolks 4 pint Boil up. The hearts only, chopped fine. Chopped fine. Add the herbs to the boiling stock and simmer gently until they are tender. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the stock, put on the fire for a few minutes, and then add to the soup. Cut in thin slices and soak in stock. Pour the soup on to the bread in the tureen.32 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 55.-PISH SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Plaice or brill or skate Onions Parsley Water Butter Salt, Pepper.., Catsup Sherry 1 of either kind 2 3 sprigs.. 2 quarts.. I table spoonful I wine glass ... Clean, skin, and cut the flesh small fillets. Boil the head, skin and bones with the onions and parsley until the water is reduced to i quart, then skim and strain it. Brown and add to the stock to colour and thicken it. Put in the fillets and boil for \ hour. To taste. Add. Add, boil up and serve. 56.-OYSTER SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fish stock ... 2 quarts Same as described at No. 52. 2... Oysters 3 dozen... Beard them and scald in their own liquor. 3- Add the liquor to the stock. 4... Butter 2 oz. Add to the stock. 5... Flour I oz. Sprinkle into the stock to thicken it. 6... Boil gently for 15 or 20 minutes. 7... Put in the oysters, stir well, and make the soup very hot, but do not let it boil. Note.—A good stock for oyster soup can be made by boiling down a cod's head and any bones and skin of fresh fish, flavoured with vegetables and herbs, and thickened with butter and flour.SOUPS. 33 57-CRAWFISH SOUP {Bisque,] Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Crawfish 40 2... Onions 2 3- Sweet herbs... A bouquet 4... Salt, pepper... 1 pint ... 5... Rich stock ... 6... /••* 8... 9... Bread I slice ... 10... ir... 12... Good stock ... 2 quarts 13- 14.. 15.. i6.. Cayenne pep- per Fried bread .. A pinch... Clean and wash them well, and put them in a stewpan. Slice and add to the crawfish. Add. Add to taste. Pour over the crawfish. Simmer them for ten minutes ; when red they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them, pull off the tails, pick out the meat, and set the tails aside. Pound the shells, claws, and the meat in a mortar to a paste. Soak in the liquor the crawfish were boiled in. Dry the bread before the fire and pound with the crawfish, adding more liquor as required. Strain through a cullender and keep the mixture hot without boiHng it. Pour over it boiling hot. Add the tails of the crawfish. Add to the soup. Put in the tureen. Pour the soup on to the bread and serve very hot. 58.-WATER SOUCHY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- 4- Fish Salt, pepper- corns 4 lbs. Any small fish can be used, but the best kinds are flounders, whiting, soles, perch, tench and eels. Clean the fish and remove the flesh from the bones. Put the heads, bones and skins in a saucepan with water to cover them. To taste.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 34 WATER SOUCHY {continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cayenne Parsley roots Minced parsley Lemon juice... Brown bread and butter A pinch... 2 spoons- ful i lemon Add. Add in short lengths split fine. Stew for about an hour to make a strong broth, then strain. Cut the fish in small pieces. Put it in a clean stewpan with the broth and parsley roots. Clear off the scum as it rises, and stew the fish for lo or 12 minutes, taking care that it is not broken. Add 2 minutes before dishing. Add the juice of half a lemon. Take out the fish carefully with a slice and put in a deep dish. Pour the broth over it, removing only the parsley roots ; serve very hot. Neatly cut slices to be sent to table with the souchy. 59.-TO CLEAR SOUPS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Gravy soup ... Whites of eggs Egg shells ... Hot water I quart . 2 2 Boil up well and stir. Beat up in a cup of cold water. Break and beat up with the whites. Throw suddenly into the soup and cease stirring. Draw the pot to the side. Let it stand 10 or 12 minutes. Wring out a fine cloth in hot water. Put it over a basin and pour the soup gently through it. Take off the cloth very carefully. Let the soup stand till next day, then pour into a clean saucepan without disturbing any sediment there may be, boil up and serve.35 S017PS. 60.—ECONOMICAL STOCK, made from Bones. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bones re- ma i n i n g from a roast joint of meat 2 lbs. Cut off any meat still remaining on the bones, and make into hash or mince. Chop up the bones and put into a saucepan. 2... Carrots Turnips 2 I 1 Wash, cut up, and add. 4... Onion Herbs I Skin, cut up, and add. 5..- A small Add. bunch 6... Salt A pinch... Add. 7... Peppercorns... 10 white, 6 black Crush and add. 8... Cold Water ... 2 quarts Pour over, bring to the boil, then simmer gently until reduced to half the quantity. 9... Strain into a basin. lO... When cold take off all the fat from the surface. Note.—A few trimming-s of bacon are an improvement, but not a necessary addition to the stock. This stock can be recommended for any soups or gravies. 61.—MOCK TURTLE SOUP, economical. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock in which a calf's head has been boiled. I quart ... Put into a saucepan, having carefull}' removed all the fat. 2... 3-.- Carrot Turnip I I 1 Wash, cut up, and add. 4... Onion I Peel, slice, and add. 5-.. Celery I stick ... Wash, scrape, cut up, and add. 6... Peppercorns... 6 white, 3 black Crush and add. 7... 8... Mace I blade ... Add. Simmer gently 2 hours, then strain. 9... Flour or corn- I good table Put into a basin and pour the soup flour spoonful carefully on to it. Stir all the time. 10... Browning I good tea- spoonful Add. II... Mushroom cat- sup or other relish Iteaspoon- ful Add. 12... Pour into a saucepan.36 MYJs^A'S COOKERY BOOK. MOCK TURTLE SOUP {coniiuued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... 14... Cold remains of calves" head 1 lb. ... Cut into pieces, about i inch square, and add to the soup. Boil up, stirring until it reaches the boiling point, to prevent the flour forming lumps. Serve very hot. 62.—FISH STOCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fillet a plaice or two soles carefully, put the skin, head, tail, and bones into a stewpan (having previously washed them well). I Wash, slice and add. Add. Add. Crush and add. Add, bring to the boil, then simmer till reduced to half the quantity. Strain into a basin. Soup. Add. Add. Stir in gradually. Put into the tureen just before serving. 63.—SHRIMP SOUP. Made the same as the above with half pint of shrimps instead of the fried bread. Note.—Never throw away the bones of fish when it comes from table, but care- fully remove all the flesh that may remain on them, of which make some description of rechaufFee, place the bones immediately into a stock-pot, and proceed as described above. The bones of cod's head and shoulders produce very ^ood stock. If there is insufficient fish left to warm up by itself, it may be divided into rather small pieces and served in the soup ; in which case it should be added to the soup about five minutes before serving, so as to warm it through. 9.. 10.. II.. 12.. I3-. Bones of fish Carrots Turnip Celery Bay leaf Salt Peppercorn ... Cold Water ... Milk Anchovy sauce Corn-flour Small squares of fried bread I I I stick I Very little 6 white, 3 black I pint ., . For Half pint I tea- spoonful I dessert- spoonful 3 table- spoonsfulFISH. 37 SECTION II.—FISH. 1.—BRILL, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. z... Brill I Empty and wash out the inside. 2... Salt Rub a little over the outside to re- move the slime, and wash it several times. 3- Cut off the fins. 4... Hot water ... Put the fish into nearly boiling water. 5- Let it simmer gently until the skin begins to crack. 6... Dish it on a folded napkin. 5- Lobster or An- Serve separately. chovy sauce 2,—BRILL, a la Parisienne, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brill Small one Empty, wash, and dry it. Make a few incisions in the back. 2... 3- Oil !!! I wine Put in a stewpan. glassful 4... Stock \ cupful Add. 5- White wine ... I wine glassful Add. 6... Salt and pep- per To taste Add. 7- 8... Bunch of herbs Add. Put in the fish, and stew gently over a slow fire. g... When done, strain it, and put it on a hot dish. 10... Stock I pint ... Put on the fire, and reduce to half the quantity. II... Minced par- sley I tea spoonful Mix with the stock. 12... Pour it over the fish and serve.3B MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3—COD, salted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cod Let it soak in water 24 hours, chang- ing the water several times. 2... Boil in the last water. 3- Egg sauce .. Serve separately. 4.— SALT CODj a la creme. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cod Prepare as in preceding receipt, skin. and take out the bones. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan, but do not let it brown. 3- Salt Sprinkle over. 4... Milk or cream I cupful Mix in gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. 5-' ... Put in the pieces of cod. 6... ... Let it simmer uncovered till the sauce is thick. 7... ..• Slide the whole on to a dish that can go in the oven. 8... Bread crumbs Place a thick layer on the fish. g... Butter I OZ. Melt in a saucepan and pour over the bread. 10... Place another layer of bread crumbs on the butter. II... ... ... Put it to bake, and serve in the dish it is baked in. 12... Fried bread ... To garnish the dish. 5. -FRESH COD, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. Cod's head Rub a little salt down the bone and and shoulders thick part, and tie a fold or two ot wide tape round. 2.. Put it in a fish kettle. 3- Cold water .. Cover the fish.FISH. 39 FRESH COD, boiled.—{continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... y... 10... II... Salt Vinegar Horse-radish ... Parsley, lemon and the cod's liver Note.—C 4 oz. to I gallon of water 3 tea spoonsful A little ... rimped cod re 6.-CC j-Add. 1 J Bring the water to the verge of boiling. Let it then simmer gently ^ hour or more. Skim well and carefully. Drain the cod and slip it off the strainer on to a folded napkin. Garnish the dish. quires a shorter time to boil. )J)j curried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... ID... II... 12... Cold cod ... Butter Onion White stock... Butter Flour Curry powder Cream or milk Salt and cay- enne I lb. ... 3 OZ. ... I sliced ... h pint ] I oz. V i oz. ) I tea spoonful i pint ... To taste Take from the bones. Melt in a frying-pan. Brown in the butter. Fry the fish a nice brown. Put the butter and onions in a stew- pan. Thicken the stock with the butter and flour, and put into the stewpan. Add, and let the whole simmer for 10 minutes. Add. Add. Put in the fish, boil up and serve. Note.—Any remains of cold fish can be dressed in this way. It is much improved if the curry powder is simmered with the stock the day before it is required.40 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 7-HADDOCK, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Haddock Bread Crumbs Minced herbs Salt and pepper Nutmeg and cayenne Butter Yolk of egg ... Yolks of eggs Bread crumbs and minced parsley Butter I large ... 40Z. \ ioz. I to taste I a pinch ofeach / Note, baked in Clean thoroughly, dry, and wrap in a cloth. Mix together. Work in with the bread crumbs, &c. Beat and mix with the preceding to make a forcemeat. Fill the body of the haddock with the forcemeat, and sew up the opening. Curl the fish round and fasten the tail in the mouth with a skewer. Dip the fish in. Roll the fish in. Dip it again in the egg and put it in a baking dish. Clarify and pour over the fish. Bake for i hour, or more, if very large. Serve with melted butter. —Haddock can also be cooked like Herrings and Whiting, and Pike can be the same manner as Haddock. 2 well- beaten 8.~HERRINGS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Fresh herrings Salt and pep- per Chopped par- sley and chives Thoroughly clean, scale and dry them. Put them in a deep dish. 4 .. } Sprinkle over lightly, 1 JFISH. 41 HERRINGS, broiled—(continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Olive oil A few drops Pour on each herring. 6... Let them soak i hour, turning two or three times. 7... Warm a gridiron. 8... Broil the fish without drying them. 9... Serve on a bed of parsley. 9.-HERRINGS, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2«>. Herrings 4 Clean, wash, and lay them on a board. 2... Salt, pepper, Rub well into the fish. and pounded cloves 3-* Lay them in a pie-dish. 4... Vinegar Pour over till the herrings are covered. 5- Bay-leaves ... 2 or 3 ... Add. 6... Thick paper... Cover over the dish. 7... Put them into a moderate oven and bake hour. 8... This dish is eaten cold. lO.-JOHN DORY, boiled. Cook like Turbot or Brill. 11—MACKEREL, a la maitre d'Hdfel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. z... Mackerel ... 2 or 3 ... Clean as in preceding receipt, and place them in a deep disn. 2... Salad oil a little ... 3- Salt and 1 Put over them. pepper d... 1 ParsleyMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 42 MACKEREL, d la mattre d^HStel.—[continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... ••• ••• Chopped parsley, chervil, and chives Leave them to soak \ hour. Take them out and dry them in a clean cloth. Warm the gridiron and broil the fish on a gentle fire, turning when Place them on a warm dish. Mix with butter, pepper, and salt to a ball. Place it inside the mackerel, and serve with lemon juice. 12.-MACKEREL, hoiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4.:. 5... 6... 7... 8... Mackerel Cold water ... Salt Fennel, or gooseberry sauce, or plain melted butter I table- spoonful Cut open, remove the roes, well wash them and the mackerel. Put the fish and roes into a fish kettle. Pour over till the fish swims. Add. Bring gradually to the boil, and sim- mer for about 20 minutes; they are done when the eyes start. Skim as the scum rises. Serve on a napkin. Serve separately. Note.—Mackerel may also be done before the fire, broiled or baked. 13.-MULLET. This fish is excellent in autumn and winter, and may be cooked according to the receipts given for mackerel and whiting.43 FISH. 14.-RED MULLET. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Red Mullet ... Wash and dry the fish; do not open them, but remove the gills gently with the small intestine adhering to them. 2... Buttered Wrap each fish up separately, and paper tie the paper firmly on. 3 •• ... Roast the fish in a Dutch oven, bake them, or broil them over a clear fire. 4... ••• Remove the string before serving, but leave the paper on or remove it as preferred. 5 — ... ... Make a sauce as follows to serve with it. 6... Good melted i pint ... Add to this the liquor from the fish. butter 7... Anchovysauce I tea- Add. spoonful Add. 8... Cayenne a pinch... pepper 9... Port or claret I wine- glassful Add. 10... Lemon juice small Add; mix well. quantity Serve separately* II... 15.-PLAICE, Jtllefed, Cook like Soles. 16.-SALMON, boiled,-{English way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Salmon Warm water... Salt I gallon 4 oz. Scale, empty, and wash carefully, do not leave any blood inside. 1 Put into a fish kettle Put in the salmon and let it boil gently till thoroughly done. Take it out on a fish plate and drain.44 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SALMON, boiled.—(English way.)—(continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Place on a folded napkin. 7... Shrimp or lob- Serve separately. ster sauce 8... Dressed cu- do. cumber Note.—We always add i wine glass of vinegar to the water the fish is boiled in. 17.-SALMON, pickled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Remains of boiled salmon Vinegar, and liquor the salmon was boiled in Pepper and salt Equal quantities Remove the bone and place in a deep dish. Mix and put into a saucepan and boil for 10 minutes. Season well. When this is cold, pour it over the fish. Note.—A teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar is a good addition to this dish Some people put the remainder of the melted butter and a little anchovy sauce into the pickle, and we think it an improvement. The French add the inevitable onion. 18.-SALMON STEAKS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Slices from the middle of a salmon Cayenne pep- per Oiled or but- tered letter paper Suet Cut them i| inches thick. Sprinkle over each. 3- 4... 5... Wrap up each slice. Rub over a gridiron. Broil the steaks over a clear fire.FISH. 45 19-—SALMON, boiled.—(French way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13.,. 1 Salmon White French wine Water Fresh butter Parsley Onion pricked with I clove Sliced carrot Bay-leaf Salt and pep- per ... ^OTE.—This way 0 I bottle do. ilb. I bunch I 1 or 2 2 or 3 ■ cooking salm 20-SAL Scale, empty, and wash carefully. Put into a fish kettle and boil i hour. Put the fish on a cloth, hold the four corners and place it in the kettle, leaving the corners outside. Let the fish simmer equally and gently 2 hours. Serve as in English receipt. Add some of the water the fish was boiled in to any sauce you serve with it. on makes it extremely delicate eating. iMON, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... Tail piece of salmon Oil Vinegar Salt and pep- per Butter Sait Caper siuce... i 4 spoons-"^ ful I spoon- ful _> 3 oz. ... Make incisions in the fish. Mix, and let the fish soak in this one hour, turning it frequently that it may be well seasoned. Melt and add to the fish. Bake in the oven and baste frequently. Sprinkle over when nearly done. Serve the fish with the sauce round it. Serve separately.46 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 21.-SALMON SCALLOPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salmon lb. ... Cut in small thin slices and remove all skin. 2... ... Cut the slices round, and flatten them with a knife dipped in cold v^^ater. 3- Butter 3 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put in the scallops side by side. 5-- Pepper and salt To taste Sprinkle over. 6... When they are brov^n turn them. 7... Stock i pint ... Put in a saucepan and heat up. 8... Add the butter the fish was cooked in. 9... Minced par- I tea Add. sley spoonful 10... Pepper and To taste Add, and serve with the fish. nutmeg 22.— SHAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... onaa .•> Only good just out ot the water. 2... ... Draw through the ears. 3- ... Wash and wipe; leave the tail, but cut off the fins. 4... ... Make incisions on the cross down the back, but not very deep. 5- ... ... Put in a deep dish. 6... Salt and pep- Sprinkle over. per 7... Olive oil ipint ... Pour over. 8... Bunch of par- Add. sley, thyme, chives, and bay-leaf 9... Let it soak i hour or more. Turn the fish. 10.. • Rnf f/arAr1 r\c\r\f^r XJULLCXCUUmUCI n... Put the fish to the fire, and let it roast I hour at a good fire. 12... Before it is done, take off the paper and baste it with the oil the fish was soaked in. 13... When it is a nice colour take it from the fire.FISH. 47 SHAD (continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... Fresh parsley Serve on a white serviette. Sprinkle over the serviette. Put the fish on the dish so that the head may be on the left, and the back in front, of the person carving. Note.—Shad can also be boiled like Salmon. 23.-WAY TO CARVE SHAD. 1. —Trace a deep line with the fish-knife from head to tail. 2. —Cut each portion by oblique lines. 3. —Leave the tail entire. 24. -S MELTS. Cook like herrings. 25. -SKATE,/nVi. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Skate This fish keeps well, is very nourish ing, but not very delicate eating. 2... Beaten egg ... I yolk ... Brush over the fish. 3- Bread crumbs 4 oz. Cover the fish. 4... Boiling fat ... Fry a nice brown. 5... Anchovy or Serve separately. shrimp sauce 26.-CRIMPED SKATE, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Skate Clean, skin, and cut into slices. 2... Roll each sHce over your finger, and fasten it round with twine. 3.- Salt and water Put into a stewpan. 4... Put in the fish. 5... Boil from 15 to 20 minutes. 6... Remove the string and serve on a folded napkin. 7... Shrimp or Serve separately. lobster sauceMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 48 27.—SKATS, «w heurre noir. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Skate Dress and wash well in several waters. 2... Put it into a fish-kettle. 3*" Cold water ... Pour over till the fish swims. 4... Vinegar iwineglass 5... Carrots 2 6... Small onions 0 • • • • • • 7... Bunch of > Add. thyme, par- sley and bay- leaf 8... Salt & pepper Season well. g... Boil gently J hour. 10... Skim. IT... Liver Wash and put in the liver. 12... When the fish is done take the kettle off the fire. 13.. Put a cloth over and let it stand till you can bear your hand in the water. 14... ... Drain the skate. 15... Scrape off the black skin. 16... Trim the edges and fins with scissors. 17... Put the skate on a dish, the liver in the centre, and keep it hot. 18... Butter Jib. ... Melt in a frying-pan and stir till it is dark brown. 19... Picked parsley I handful Throw into the butter and let it fry till it no longer sputters. 20... Take it out with the strainer and garnish the skate with it. 21... Vinegar I or 2 tea- Add to the butter, stirring well. spoonsful 22... Salt & pepper Add. 23... Pour over the skate and serve hot. 28.-SO LES, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles 2 Put them into a fish kettle. 2... Salt & water Pour over them. 3- Let them boil slowly, then simmer.FISH. 49 SOLES, boiled.—(continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Metnod. 4- They will take about lo minutes. 5- Serve on a napkin with the white side 6... Parsley and up. Garnish the dish. slices of le- mon 7- Anchovy or Serve separately. shrimp sauce 29—SO'L'ES J fried.—(French way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles 2 Dress, clean, and put into a deep dish. 2... Milk i pint ... Pour over, and let them soak ^ hour. Drain, and wipe the fish on a clean cloth. 3- 4... Flour Sprinkle over a paste-board. 5... Roll the soles in it. 6... Butter Melt in a frying-pan over a clear fire. 7... 8... Salt Sprinkle over, stirring. As soon as the butter boils, plunge in the soles by the head. 9... Fry a nice brown. 10... Fried parsley Put round the soles on the dish. 30—SOLES, fried.—(English way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles 2 Remove the skin from the dark side, clean and wipe them dry. 2... Flour Dredge a little flour over. 3- Beaten egg ... I yolk ... Brush over the soles. 4... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Dip the soles in. 5... Boiling fat ... Fry brown in boiling fat. Note.—The French way is more delicate.50 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 31—SOLES, au gratin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I^ettiod. 1 I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a dish that can go into the oven. 2... Flour I OZ. Sprinkle over the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. 0 • • • Parsley, chives eschalot, mushrooms Chop fine and put a layer over the butter. 4... Salt and Sprinkle over. pepper Dress the fish and put them on this layer. 5- Soles 2 6... White French wine Pour over. 7... Bread crumbs Put a thick layer over all. 8... Butter I OZ. Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the crumbs. (J... Salt and Sprinkle over. pepper 10... Bake in a hot oven, and serve on the same dish. 32.-SOLES,///^^^^. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles 2 Divide them from the backbone, cut off the heads, fins, and tails. 2... Salt Sprinkle over the insides. 3- Roll them from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. 4... Beaten egg ... I yolk ... Dip the soles in. 5... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Do. 6... Hot lard or Fry them brown. clarified but- 7- ter Parsley and Garnish the dish. slices of le- monFISH. 51 33,-SPRATS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... Sprats Choose them very fresh and wipe them dry. 2... Fcisten them in rows, by running a s kewer through the eyes. 3- Flour Dredge over them. 4... Suet Rub on the gridiron. 5- Broil them for 3 or 4 minutes and serve very hot. Note.—Fresh sprats may be known by their bright eyes and silvery appearance. Sprats can also be fried in batter. 34-TURBOT, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Turbot Salt Lemon cut two White wine and water, or vinegar and water Onion pricked with a clove Bunch of herbs Salt and pepper I wme- glass of wine or vinegar to each quart of water Empty, and wash the inside. Rub a little over the outside to remove the slime, and wash in several waters. Make an incision in the skin of the back nearly to the bone, to pre- vent the skin of the white side cracking. Do not cut off the fins. Rub over the fish. Put in a saucepan. Add. i tJoil this liquor J hour, j ;5ha:n, and let it get cold. £ 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOR. 52 TURBOT, boiled—{cotttinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... ... Put the fish into a turbot kettle, with the vinegar or wine and water, &c. 13... ... Put the kettle on a quick fire, and jet it boil uncovered. 14... When it boils cover it with buttered paper, and let it simmer only i or 2 hours. 15... When the fish bends under the finger it is done. 16... Serve on a folded napkin, 17... Lobster, Serve separately. shrimp or anchovy sauce 35-—TURBOT, cl la Hollandaise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Turbot Prepare as in preceding receipt. 2... Lemon I Rub over the fish on both sides. 3... Put it in a turbot kettle. 4... Salt water ... Milk I quart do. 1 Pour over till the fish swims. 6... i ut the kettle on a quick fire till iic boils, then let it simmer only till done. 7... Fried parsley Puc a bed on the dish and place the tarbot upon it. 8... Boiled pota- I lb. Slice and place round the dish. toes 9... Melted butter and lemon juice Serve separately.FISH. 53 36—TURBOT, augmtin. Order. Ingreaients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold turbot ... Any pieces left Remove the skin and bones. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Eschalots 2 or 3 ... Add. 4... Parsley, chives Add. 5... Flour a spoon- ) ful V Mix smoothly together. j 6... Cream ^ cupful 7... 8... Salt, pepper, nutmeg Add to the cream, and then put it in the stewpan. Boil the sauce until it thickens, stir- ring all the time. 9... Strain it. 10... Put the pieces of fish in a pie dish, and pour the sauce over. II... Bread crumbs I oz. Sprinkle over. 12... Butter I oz. Clarify and pour over. 13... Bake in the oven, or Dutch oven, and serve in the dish it is cooked in. 37.-WHITEBAIT, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Whitebait ... Beaten egg ... Bread crumbs Boiling fat ... Fried parsley Choose very fresh. Dip the fish in. Roll the fish in. Fry the fish brown. Serve round the dish. 38—WHITEBAIT, Greenwich style. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Whitebait ... Flour 3 4 handsful Throw from the basket on to a cloth without touching the fish with the hands. Throw over the fish and shake them well in it.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 54 WHITEBAIT, Gre6nwich style—{contiimed). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... t'... 6... 7... 8... g... 10... Lard Lemon Brown bread and butter Cut in halves Put them in a wicker sieve to get rid of the superfluous flour. Put in a frying pan, enough to fill it nearly when boiling. When the fat boils, throw in the fish a few at a time. Take them out before they begin to brown, and throw in some more. Drain them on blotting paper before the fire. Serve them on a hot dish, piled high in the centre. 1 Serve to eat with the fish. 39-WHITING,/nVi. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5- 6... 7... Whiting Beaten egg ... Bread crumbs Hot lard Fried parsley Shrimp or anchovy sauce I yolk ... Clean, take off the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth. Brush over them. Roll the fish in. Fry the fish. vS°rve them on a napkittt Cfarnish the fish. Serve separately. 40—WHITING, au gratin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Metnofi. I... a... Whiting Flour Clean and takfe off the skin. Sprinkle over a paste-board and roll the fish in it.55 FISH. WHITING, au gvatin—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Chives, pars- ley, chervil, eschalot, and mushrooms Butter Butter Salt & pepper Bread crumbs White wine ... Stock A little of each I wme glassful I wine glassful Chop fine, and mix. Melt in a baking dish over a slow fire. Sprinkle in a layer of the chopped herbs, and take it off the fire. Put the whiting on the butter, head to tail. Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the fish. Sprinkle over. Sprinkle on a thick layer. I Pour over the whole. Put the dish in the oven and bake it well. Serve in the dish it is cooked in. 41.-CARP, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carp 2 Take out the gills, clean and thoroughly wash. 2... Leave the roes. Cut off the tail and fins. 4... Put them' in a fish pot. 5 Claret ipint ... Boil separately and pour over the fish. 6... Boiling water Add till the fish swims. 7... Sliced onions and carrots 3 of each 8... Bunch of pars- ley, sage, chives, bay- \ •Put inlo the pot. leaf, thyme 1 9... Cloves TO... Salt and pep- per i 1 Let all simmer i hour or more, according to the size of the carp.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 56 CARP, boiled—[confimied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 12... 13... 14... 15... Melted butter or parsley and butter Skim off the scum as it rises. Take the pot off the fiie. Serve on a serviette. Serve separately. 42.—CARP, ci la marinieve. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... Carp Butter Flour Small onions Mushrooms ... Salt and peper Claret Bun ch of parsley, cher- vil, and chives Warm water Toast The blood that was set aside 2 2 OZ. I OZ. 12 12 J pint ... If liked Z Dress and cut into equal sized pieces. Let the blood flow into a cup, as you will want it for the sauce. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Sprinkle into the butter, stirring all the time. 1 Brown in the butter Sprinkle over. Take out the onions and mushrooms as they brown. Pour gradually into the stewpan, stirring all the time. Put into the sauce. Add according to quantity of sauce required. Boil on a clear fire. When it boils put in the pieces of carp. Put in the onions and mushrooms over the fish. Let all boil i hour on a bright fire, so as to set fire to the steam from the wine. Put round a deep dish. Take out the fish, mushrooms, and onions, and put them in the dish. Take out the herbs. Mix gradually with the sauce, pour over the fish, and serve.57 FISH. 43.—EELS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. ... Eels 2 small or Out them into pieces* I large ... 2... JJry and tlour tnem. Sutter ... 2 oz. IMelt in a frymg pan. 4... ... ... ... ... XJLkJVv 11 lllC CCJo 111 LlIC UULLCi. 5"« .*• •.. X Lib LliCiil lllt\J CV oLCWL/ctll. 0... •d" u *^f £> u n c xi 01 .1* «.. sweet herbs 7... I Cut into four and add. 8.., Pepper, salt, Add. and spice, if liked g... Stock or water Nearly cover the fish. 10... Let it stew gently until it is cooked enough. II... Flour Thicken the sauce with it. 12... Serve with the sauce round it. 13... Tomato [or May be used to flavour the stew. any other sauce 44.—EELS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Small eels ... Bunch of pars- ley Parsley and butter Boil them in enough water to cover them. Add. 3- 4... 5.., When tender they are done. Serve them up in a deep dish. Pour over them. 45.—EELS, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Eels 2 Dress and wash. Cut off the heads, and divide the eels into small pieces.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. EELS, baked—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3... ... Wipe very dry. 4... Seasoning of ••> ».. Dip the fish in. cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and powdered herbs 5-- Put them into a deep dish. 6... Veal stock ... Cover them. 7... ... Cover the dish. 8.., Bake in the oven till the eels are tender. g... Skim off the fat. 10... Take out the fish and keep it warm. u... Port wine ... 2 wine glasses 12... Lemon juice I lemon ► Stir into the sauce. 13... Worcester I tea sauce spoonful 14... Let it just boil. 15... Pour over the fish and serve. 46.—EELS, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Eels Flour Beaten ts^ .. Bread crumbs Hot fat Fried parsley I large or 2 small Very little lydk ... Prepare, wash, and wipe them thoroughly dry. Dredge over them. Cut them into pieces about 4 inches long. Brush over them. Dip them in. Fry the fi.«ih in it. Serve round them.FISH. 59 47.—EELS, Matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eel I large ... Dress and and cut into pieces. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire and stir till it is brown. 3-- Flour I tea- spoonful Sprinkle over, still stirring, till well mixed. 4... Small onions 7 or 8 ... Add. 5- Water or stock ^ pint ... Pour over, still stirring. 6... Salt and pepper Season well. 7... 8... Flour Put the pieces of eel into this sauce. Add, if the sauce is too thin. 9... Bunch of ... Add. thyme, par- sley, chives, and bay-leal 10... Let all simmer 20 to 30 minutes. II... Claret \ pint ... Add just before it is done. 12... Toast Put sippets to soak in the stewpan. 13... Place them in a deep dish. 14... Put the fish on the top, and the onions round. 15... Take out the herbs. 16... Pour the sauce over the fish and serve. 48.-~COLLARED EEL. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eel Pepper & salt Mace Cloves Allspice Sage Sweet herbs Tape Water with salt and vinegar 1 large one To taste 2 blades 2 A little .. 6 leaves., ^mall bunch Bone and skin it, and open it up the middle. Pound in a mortar. I Pound with the mace, i Pound. j I Mince very fine, and add to the I 1 ether seasoning ingredients. j Spii'ikle the seasoning all over the j fish. Roll it up and bind tightly with broad 1 tape- I Boil the eel till tendet.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 6o COLLARED EEL {continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... Vinegar When cold remove the tape. Add a little to the water the eel was boiled in, and keep the fish in this. 49.-GUDGEON, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Gudgeon Flour Butter or lard Salt and pepper Fried parsley Clean and dry. Sprinkle in a deep dish. Roll the fish in it. Boil in a frying-pan. Throw in the fish one at a time. Sprinkle over. As soon as the fish are brown and crisp, take them out of the pan. Garnish the dish, and serve hot. 50.-PERCH. Good fresh-water fish. Cook according to the receipts given for Whiting. 51.—PIKE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fine pike Dress, and take out the roe, which is purgative. 2... Fat bacon i lb. ... Lard the Pike in three rows on each rolled in side of the back. pepper, salt and grated nutmeg 3- Flour Flour it lightly. 4... . Put it down before a moderate fire. 5- White wine ... i pint ... 6... Olive oil 3 spoonsful, ! Mix in the dripping-pan, and baste 7... Vinegar I tca- 1 the fish with it. sponful 8... Serve on a bed of parsley. 9... Melted butter ipint ... Add to the contents of the dripping. pan and serve this sauce separately.61 FISH. 52.—TENCHk Cook Uke Herrings. 53.-TROUT, boiled. Cook like Salmon. 54.—TROUT, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1 1... Trout 2 Empty, wash, and wipe them dry. 2... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Flour I table- Stir in. Mace, cayenne and nutmeg spoonful Add to season. 4... 5... Put in the fish and brown them lightly on both sides. 6... Veal stock ... 1 pint ... Add to the sauce. 7... Parsley A bunch Add. 8... Bay leaf I Add. 9... Lemon peel... ^ lemon Add. 10... Salt A pinch... Add. II... Stew the fish very gently for J or | hour. 12... Put the fish on a hot dish. 13... Skim the sauce and strain it. 14... Lemon juice IfTiked Add. 15... Claret I wine- Add to the sauce and pour over the glassful fish. 55-SCALLOPED FISH, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Any remains I lb. ... Take all the fish from the bones, and of cold fish put it in a stewpan. 2... Egg I Beai up.62 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SCALLOPED FISH {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk Flour Anchovy sauce Pepper and salt Bread crumbs Butter Lemon juice... Yolks of eggs A teacup- ful I dessert spoonful I tea- spoonful 3 oz. I oz. A few drops Beat up with the egg. Sprinkle in and mix smooth. Add. Add. Pour this over the fish, heat through on the fire and put in a deep dish or scallop shells. Put a thick layer over the top. Clarify and pour over. Brown before the fire. Add. Beat up and add to the sauce, stirring well. Arrange the scallops on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 56.-PISH CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Any cold fish Pick carefully from the bones, and break with forks in small flakes. 2... Bones, head, Put in a stewpan. fins, &c. 3- Water I pint ... Pour over. 4... Onion I Add. 5- Bunch of herbs Add. 6... Pepper and salt Add. 7- Simmer gently for 2 hours. 8... Bread crumbs ] Equal Mix with the fish. g... Cold potatoes ) quantities lO... Pepper and salt Add. II... Minced parsley I tea- Add. spoonfulFISH. 63 FISH CAKES {continued). Ingredients. Quantities, Method. White of egg Yolk of egg ... Bread crumbs Boiling fat ... Sauce Slices of lemon and parsley I... 2 ounces If liked Make the mixture into one or more cakes, moistening with the egg. Dip the cakes in. Roll the cakes in. Fry them a nice brown, and serve with or without the sauce. Strain, pour over the cakes, and stew gently ^ hour. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. 57.-PISH PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities i Method. I... Cold fish lilbs. ... Free the fish from skin and bone and lay it in a pie-dish. 2... Oysters I doz. if Add. liked 3- Pepper and salt Add. 4... Nutmeg i tea- Add. spoonful 5... Mace I blade ... Add. 6... Butter 2 oz. Clarify and add. 7... Stock ipint ... Add fish or veal stock. 8... Puff paste Cover the pie and bake i hour. 9... White stock I table- For the sauce. spoonful Add. 10... Milk or cream I pint ... II... Flour I tea Dredge in to thicken the sauce. spoonful 12... Boil up. 13- Make a hole in the top of the pie and pour the sauce in. 14... Cover the hole with a paste leaf and serve hot. Note. Covered .—Fish pies can be made of any cooked or uncooked fish, and are sometimes with a layer of mashed potatoes in place of the puff paste.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 64 58.-KEDGEREE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 4 oz. Boil till tender, dry, and let it cool. 2... Any cold fish Equal Clear from skin and bone, divide in n 11 a f 1 f \7 C^UclllLli.y flakes and put it in a saucepan* 3- Add the rice. 4... Butter OZ. ... Cut up and add. 5... Salt and cayenne To taste Add. 6... Stir over the fire until quite hot. 7... 8... Eggs 2 Beat lightly and add. Stir in, and serve when the eggs are set, but do not let it boil. 59.-TO DRESS LOBSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lobster Separate the body and tail. 2... Remove the large claws, and crack them at each joint. 3- Split the tail down the middle with a sharp knife. 4... Place the body upright on a napkin in the centre of the dish. 5... Arrange the tail and claws on each side. 6... Parsley To garnish the dish. 60. -TO DRESS CRABS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Crab A middle-sized crab is the best to choose. 2... It is stale if the eyes look dull. 3... Empty the large shell.65 FISH. TO DRESS CRABS (contimied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Oil Vinegar Salt, pepper, and cayenne Very little do. To taste 1 Mix with tlae flesh. Put back the meat in the large shell. Place it in the dish with the claws round it. 61-LOBSTER CUTLETS. Ingredients. Lobster Butter Salt, pepper, and cayenne Mace, nutmeg Coral Yolk of egg ... Bread crumbs Boiling lard .. Bechamel Quantities. I large ... I ounce ... To taste To taste Small quantity I 2 ounces If liked , Method. Take all the meat out of the shell. Pound it in a mortar. Mix and pound with the lobster. Add to season. Add. Beat to a paste. Add. Divide the paste into neatly shaped cutlets. Brush over the cutlets. Roll the cutlets in. Stick a short piece of small claw in the point of each cutlet. Fry the cutlets a nice brown. Drain, and arrange on the dish. Pour a little into the dish, but not over the cutlets. 62.-LOBBTER SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lobster I Take out the meat and cut in small pieces. 2... Lettuces Wash, dry thoroughly in a cloth and tear in shreds with the angers. 3- Endive If liked ... Add. 4... Small salad ... Add. FMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 66 LOBSTER SALAD (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Dressing Cucumber ... Beetroot Hard boiled eggs ' Mix well and add a portion of the fish. Dress with oil and vinegar or with made salad dressing. Arrange in a salad bowl. Garnish with slices of cucumber, beetroot, and egg, pieces of lobster, and little heaps of the coral, arrang- ing the colours to contrast nicely. 63.-OYSTERS, scalloped. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I oz. Rub over a shallow tart dish or tin scallop-shells. 2... Grated bread I teacup- Strew a layer in the dish. crumbs ful 3- Butter I oz. Put some thin slices on the top of the crumbs. 4... Oysters Add to fill the dish. 5- Bread crumbs Put a layer over the oysters. 6... Butter Put some thin slices over the crumbs. 7... Pepper Season the whole well. 8... Oyster liquid Add a little. 9... Bake in a quick oven. 64.-OYSTERS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... Oysters 3 doz. ... Open, cut off the beards, and wash them in their own liquid. 2... Strain the liquor into a small stew- pan. 3--- Thin m.elted \ pint ... Add to thicken it. butter 4... Pepper corns 20 Tie up in muslin, and add. Blade of mace I Add if liked. 6... Put the oysters to simmer in this sauce 3 or 4 minutes, but do not let them boil. 7... Serve with sippets of bread.67 BEEF. SECTION III.—BEEF. 1.-PREPARATI0N FOR KEEPING BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Beef Salt and pepper Bunch of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf Onions slices Olive oil 3 or 4 Put in a pan. Sprinkle over. > Put round and over the meat. Pour over till all is covered. Put the pan in a cool place. This will keep the meat several days, and it will be just as good to roast or otherwise cook. 2.-SIRL0IN OF BEEF, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sirloin of beef Clarified dripping Salt Flour Hang the joint evenly at about 18 inches from a good fire. Put a little into the dripping-pan, and baste the joint well as soon as it is put down to roast. Baste it again every \ hour till about 20 minutes before it is done. Stir the fire and keep it clear. Sprinkle a little over the meat. Dredge over it. Turn it again till it is brown. Take it from the fire, put it on a hot dish and pour some good gravy over it; or mix the gravy left at the bottom of the dripping pan \yith a little hot water, and pour over it. F 268 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SIRLOIN OF BEEF, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 9... 10... II... Scraped horseradish Yorkshire pudding Horseradish sauce 3-ROL LED RI] Garnish the meat with little heaps of it. Serve with it on a separate dish. Serve with it. 3S OF BEEF, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Ribs of beef... Clarified dripping ... Horseradish sauce 4.-R0LL ••• ... ED RIB Order the butcher to take out the bones; roll it into a round ; fasten it with skewers and a broad piece of tape. Place it 18 inches from a large fire till it is partly cooked. Then move it gradually forward to- wards the fire. Put in the pan ; baste it the moment the dripping melts, and every ^ hour. Twenty minutes before you remove it from the fire, dredge it with flour, and baste with a little butter. Remove the skewers and tape, and fasten it with a silver skewer instead. Serve, with good gravy over it. Serve with the meat. S OF BEEFj braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Rolled beef ... Fat bacon ... ilb. ... Choose about 2 ribs of beef, not too fat; have the bones taken out and the meat rolled into a good shape. Lard the beef.BEEF. 69 ROLLED RIBS OF BEEF, braised—{continued). Ingredients. Salt and pepper Fat bacon .. Stock with the fat off Carrots Parsley, thyme and chives Bay leaf Onions stuck with cloves Brandy Quantities. ilb. I pint In a bunch 2, if liked 2 tea- spoonsful Method. Sprinkle over both sides. Tie a string round the beef to keep ii in shape. Cut into thin slices and put at the bottom of a stewpan (enamelled if possible). Put the beef on top. Cover with more slices of bacon. VAdd. Add or not, at will. Put the stewpan on a quick fire, and let it boil uncovered a few minutes. Put the stewpan in a hot oven, and let it simmer gently, 3 hours at least. Take the beef out and take the string off. Put the beef on a hot dish, pour a little of the sauce over it, and keep it warm near the fire. Strain the rest of the sauce through a sieve; put it on the fire again 2 or 3 minutes, then serve with the meat. 5.-TO BOIL BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Joint of beef... Put a quart of cold water to every pound of meat. 2... Allow 20 minutes to the pound from the time the pot boils and the scum rises.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 70 TO BOIL BEEF—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Keep the pot boiling, but let it boil very slowly. Just before the pot boils, the scum rises. Take care to skim it off carefully, or the scum will fall back and stick to the meat. When you have well skimmed the pot, put in a little cold water, which will cause the scum to rise again. The more carefully you skim, the cleaner and nicer will the boiled meat look. 6.-AITCHBONE OF BEEP, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Aitchbone of beef Salt Moist sugar.. Cold water ... I lb I ounce. 2^ gals, to 10 lbs. of beef This is a good joint for a large family. ) Pound together in a mortar, then ) rub into the beef. Turn the joint and rub in the pickle every day, for 4 or 5 days. Waeh it well before you boil it. Put it into a large boiling pot, so as to let the meat be well covered and surrounded. Set the pot on one side of the fire to boil gently. If it boils fast at first, the meat will be hard and tough. Boil it 20 minutes to the pound. Save the liquor in which this joint is boiled for pea-soup.BEEF. 71 7.-SILVERSIDE OF BEEF, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Silverside of beef Cold water ... Liquor it was boiled in. 3 gals, to 10 lbs. of meat A little ... Put it in pickle (see above receipt) for 9 or 10 days. Take it out and wash it; skewer it in a round form and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stewpan of water, and when it boils remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink and spoil the look of the meat. Draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly 20 minutes to each pound from the time it boils. When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and put in a silver one. Pour over the meat and garnish with carrots and parsnips. 8.-BROILED STEAK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rumpsteak I^lb. ... Take care to have it cut from ^ to | inch thick; divide it in halves. 2... Place a gridiron over a clear fire, and rub the bars with suet to prevent the meat adhering to them. 3- Place the two steaks on it and broil them, turning them frequently with the steak tongs, or if with a fork, carefully pricking it through the fat to prevent the gravy run- ning out. 4... Butter I oz. Place on a hot dish. 5... Catchup I table- 1 Add. 6... Salt and pepper spoonful 7... Rub the steaks with butter, lay them on the dish, and serve as quickly as possible. Note.—Rumpsteak is best for broiling and frying; beefsteak for stewing.72 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 9.-STEWED STEAK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Note. the stea Steak Water Onion Catchup Caper liquor... Pepper and salt —Vegetables, such <, are a very good a 10 2 lbs. ... i pint ... I or more at will I table- spoonful A little as carrots anc ddition to this .-STEA] Fry in butter a good brown. Put into a stewpan with the steak. SHce and add. Add. 1 Add. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve on a hot dish. i turnips cut in small pieces, and stewed with dish. French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3"* 4... Steak Vinegar Olive oil ••• 11. I-Jlb. ... 1 A few -STEAI Beat with the side of the chopper. Sprinkle each slice with a few drops of olive oil and a few drops of vine- gar, lay them on one another and let them steep all night. Broil the steak on a gridiron over a clear fire, turn once and serve. [j French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-" 4... 5-- Rumpsteak ... Pepper and salt Fresh butter... 2 lbs. ... i'ib. ::: Have it cut i inch thick; beat with the chopper and cut in slices. Sprinkle over both sides of each slice. Melt in a stewpan. Put the steak in the butter. Put a gridiron on the fire to warm it beforehand.BEEF. 73 STEAK, French receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. • • Qua^ntities. Method. 6... Put a warm dish on the stove. 7- Fresh butter... 3 oz. ... 8... Pepper and salt g... Chopped pars- Stir together on the hot dish. ley and chives 10... Lemon juice... I lemon... 1 II... Broil the slices of steak on the grid- iron. 12... VVhen broiled, put on the dish and serve. 12,—BEEP, a, la mode. 0 de r er. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Piece of the 2 lbs. ... Beat it with a beating knife. round 2... Fat bacon ... ilb. ... Cut into long strips. 3"« Salt and pepper i A..,. Chopped pars- I tea- ' Sprinkle over the bacon. ley spoonful 5... Lard the beef with strips of bacon. 6... Put it into a pan. 7... White wine ... \ pint to 2 Pour over. lbs. of meat 8... Let it steep i hour, then turn and let it steep another hour. g... Take a stewpan. 10... Butter 2 oz. Put at the bottom to melt. II... Put in the prepared beef. 12... Pepper and salt Sprinkle over. 13... Onions stuck 2 with cloves 14... Parsley I bunch... 15... Thyme I sprig ... >Add. 16... Bay 2 leaves... 17... Marjoram I sprig ... 18... Garlic If liked... ig... Calf's foot ... Boned ... 20... Stock I pint ...i 1 1 Pour over the whole.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 74 BEEF, a la mode—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Boil I hour, first quickly, then gently. Take the stewpan off the fire, and put it in a hot oven, to stew there 5 or 6 hours. Take off the fat, strain the sauce. Place the meat on a dish with the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve. 13—BEEF, en Dauhe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef 2 lbs. ... Choose a good part, cut in a thin slice, and beat and trim it. 2... Bacon ilb. ... Lard the beef. 3- Salt, pepper... Sprinkle all over. 4... Lard or butter i*ib. ::: Put in a large stewpan and place the beef on it. 5... 6... Calf s feet ... Carrots 2 3 or 4 ... 7... Onions 2 stuck with 8... Parsley cloves I Tied in .Add. 9... Chives > a bunch 10... Thyme Bay leaves ... ) 2 12... Salt, pepper... 13... Stock 1 pint ... Pour over. 14... White wine ... 4 pint ... Add. 15... Simmer for 4 hours, turning the meat from time to time. 16... When done put the meat on a dish and keep it hot. 17... Skim and strain the sauce, then boil it up, colour with caramel if neces- sary, pour over the meat and serve.75 BEEF. 14.—FILLET OF BEEF, a la yardiniere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... Beef Bacon Shin of beef... Veal Pepper and salt Butter Butter and flour Madeira Cayenne pepper Lemon juice Vegetables ... 15.-FILI 2 lbs. ... i lb. ... 1 6 ozs. of ) each 2 oz. I wine glassful A pinch... ^ lemon... jET of Take the whole of the fillet, or under- cut of a sirloin of beef. Lard it all over with small pieces. Put the meat on a baking dish. Put in the dish to make a good gravy. Sprinkle over. Break in small pieces and add. Bake a rich brown. Baste frequently. Put the meat on a hot dish. Work into a ball and add to the sauce. When it boils add the wine. Add. Add and boil up. Put round the meat any vegetables in season, cauliflower, French beans, asparagus, carrots or turnips. Strain the sauce over and serve. BEEP, with maccaroni* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Fillet ^ ... Maccaroni ... Stock Butter Parmesan ] Gruyere > cheese ) Pepper 2 lbs. ... ^ lb. ... ij pint ... i lb. ... 6 ozs. of each To taste Bake as in preceding receiptor roast. Blanch in hot salt and water. Throw it into cold water, and cut it in pieces i inch in length. Boil the maccaroni in the stock. When done put it in a cullender to drain. Melt in a stewpan. When it begins to turn colour throw in the maccaroni. Grate and add to the maccaroni. Add.76 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FILLET OF BEEF, with maccaroni—(continued). 1 Order. ] Ingredients. Qucintities. Method. Cream 2 or 3 tea Add and shake the stewpan well. spoonsful 12... Put the meat on a hot dish. 13... Serve with the maccaroni round it. 14... Strain the gravy from the beef over it. 16.—FILLET OF BEEF, Tomatoes, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fillet li lb. ... Cut the fillet in neat oval slices. 2... Pepper and salt Sprinkle over. D ' Butter 4 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put in the slices of beef, and when they have been 4 minutes on one side, turn them and leave them 4 minutes on the other. See that the butter does not burn. 6... ..• ... ... When done put the meat on a hot plate. 7... Flour I dessert Add to the butter and stir well. spoonful 8... Stock or gravy I dessert Add. spoonful 9... Puree of Add. tomatoes 10... Pepper and salt Add. II... Warm the meat in the sauce and serve. Note.—Fillets are cooked in the same way with mushrooms or olives. 17.- -BEEF GRENADINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fillet of beef Ijlb. ... Cut in long slices ^ inch thick. 2... Bacon i lb. ... Lard them on one side. 3- Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan.BEEF, 11 BEEF GRENADINS—(cow^ww^if). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Pepper and salt Gravy Madeira I tea spoonful ipint .. I wine glassful Add before the butter browns. Add. Put in the beef and brown on both sides. Add. Add. When the grenadins are done glaze them over. Arrange them round a dish with the strained sauce poured over them. 18.—BEEF, cb VStoiiffe, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef 2 lbs. ... Any part will do, cut in a thick slice. 2... Let it hang some days and beat it well. 3- Bacon h lb. ... Season the bacon and lard the beef with it. 4... Put it in a saucepan. 5- 6... Water Peppercorns and salt Add till covered. Add. 7... 8... Cover the saucepan and let it simmer 5 or 6 hours, turning the meat occasionally. Half-an-hour before serving remove the cover, and let the beef boil quickly to reduce the sauce, which should be thick and dark brown. g... Put the beef on a hot dish. 10... Strain the sauce over it. II... Glazed onions Serve with the beef.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 78 Pepper and salt Add. 19-BEEP OLIVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Rump steak . Parsley 3...I Thyme Onions Eschalots Mushrooms . Salt, pepper. Stock White wine . Salt, pepper. Onion Bacon ijlb. .. A few sprigs A few sprigs 2 small.. 3 or 4 .. 6 or 8 .. To taste 2 yolks only I pint .. i pint .. To taste I stuck with cloves 3 or 4 slices Cut in thin slices, beat and trim them. Chop fine and mix together. Add. Beat and mix with the chopped herbs. Spread the forcemeat on the slices of meat, roll them up and fasten with string or small skewers. Put the olives in a stewpan. Add. Add. Add. Add. Lay on the olives. Stew gently for 2 hours. Put the olives on a dish. Reduce the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, strain it and pour it over the meat. Serve. 20.—BEEP CARBONADES, a la Jlamande, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef I lb. ... Cut in thin neat slices. 2... Butter ilb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Brown the meat in the butter. 4... Onions 2 or 3 ... Chop and add. 5- Thyme A little ... Chop and add. 6... Bay-leaf I if liked Chop and add. 7...79 BEEF. BEEF CARBONADES, a la Jlamande—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Stock A few Add when the meat is browned. spoonsful 9... Cover the stewpan and simmer gently for I hour. 10... Butter and I oz. Knead together and add to the sauce. flour II... Vinegar J wine Add just before serving. glassful 21.~BEEP KIDNEY, saut Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Beef kidney... Boiling water Butter Flour Parsley Chives White wine, Brandy or champagne Water Stock Salt, pepper, grated nut- meg 4 oz. I spoonful i pint Take out the hard piece in the middle, and cut in two, lengthways. Slice the two halves into pieces the size of a crown-piece. Place them in a pan. Pour over to whiten them. Let them steep 5 minutes, then drain. Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. Put in the kidney and fry 5 minutes, shaking the pan. Sprinkle over, still shaking the pan. i Chop fine and add. do. do. ' Pour over gradually and mix well. Add for seasoning. Let the sauce simmer for 5 minutes, but not boil, or it would harden the kidney. Place the slices of kidney on a warm dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Note.—Chopped eschalots and parsley may be added to this receipt if liked.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 8o J pint ... Stock j serve with the strained gravy. 22.-ANOTHER RECEIPT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef kidney... I Take out the hard piece in the middle. and cut into small slices. 2... Onions I or 2 ... Chop fine. 3-- Butter ... 2 oz. Melt in a frying pan over a quick fire. 4... ... Put in the kidney. 5- Flour I pinch ... Sprinkle over the meat as you toss it in the pan. 6... Water or I cupful Pour over gradually. stock 7... Salt and pepper To taste Sprinkle over. 8... Parsley A few Chop and add. sprigs g... Nutmeg Grate and add. 10... Let the sauce simmer 5 minutes, but not boil or the meat will harden. II... ... Place the kidney on a warm dish. 12... Pour the sauce over. 13... Vinegar or A few Add before serving. lemon juice drops -OX TONGUE, en daube. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ox tongue ... I This receipt is for fresh tongue. Cut off the root, which is good for making stock. 2... Place the tongue in a pan. 3- Boiling water I quart ... Pour over, and let it steep i hour near the fire. 4... ... Take it out and skin it by scraping with a knife. 5... Bacon i lb. ... Lard it well. 6... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a large stewpan. 7... Flour I tea Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon. 8... Salt and pepper Add, still stirring. 9... Water or stock i pint ... Add. 10... Put in the tongue. II... Bunch of herbs Add. 12... White wine ... i pint ... ) Add. Let all boil 4 or 5 hours, then 13...BEEF. 8i 24.-»-OX TAIL hochepot. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Ox tails Boiling water Slices of fat bacon Carrots Onions Cloves Bunch of herbs Salt and pepper White wine.. Water Butter Flour Stock the tails were stewed in White wine... Carrots Turnips I quart 5 or 6 2 or 3 I pint do. 2 OZ. I pinch . i pint 3 or 4 3 or 4 Cut at the three joints. Put the pieces into a dish. Pour over. Let them steep \ hour. Take them out and put them in cold water. Strain over a cullender. Place at the bottom of a stewpan, till covered. Cut into slices, and add. Stick each onion with a clove, and add. I Add. Place the prepared tails on the vegetables. j- Pour over till all is covered. Let it stew gently 5 or 6 hours. Take off the fat. Melt in another stewpan. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. IPour in gradually stirring with a wooden spoon. I Cut into dice, and add. Let all stew till the vegetables are done. Put a cullender over anoth«r sauce- pan. Strain the sauce. Put it back on the fire for 2 minutes. Drain the pieces of tail, place them on the dish with the vegetables; add the sauce, and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 82 Add, to make a good gravy. A little ... Stock 25—OX PALATE, a la menagere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ox palates ... 4 Soak in boiling water until the hard skin can be removed. 2... ... Wash several times in hot water, then put them into cold water. 3- Flour A few spoonsful Mix smooth in water. 4... Carrots ... 3 1 5- Onions 3 stuck with cloves ^ Put in a saucepan with the mixed 0... Jrarsley root... I flour and water and boil up. 7... Herbs A bunch 8... Garlic If liked... g... Pepper and salt 10... Put in the ox palates, and let them simmer gently for six hours. II... Keep them covered with water. 12... When quite white take out the palates and cut them in square pieces. 13... Serve them with sauce piquante. 26.—OX BRAINS, en Matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ox brains Clean and wash in warm water. 2... Put to soak I hour in cold water. 3-- Put it in a saucepan. 4... Water Add enough to float the brain. 5- Vinegar ^ wine- Add. glassful 6... Salt and pepper Add. 7... Cloves 2 or 3 ... Add. 8... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. g... Green celery I stick ... Add and let it boil | hour. 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. II... Small onions A handful Brown in the butter, then take out. 12... Bacon i lb. ... Cut in dice, brown in the butter, and take out. 13... Flour I tea- Add to the butter and brown. spoonful 14...BEEF. 83 OX BRAINS, en Matelote—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. 0 Method. 15... Salt and pepper Add. 16... Cut the brain in 4 pieces, and put it in the butter. 17... Add the fried onions and bacon. 18... Claret ^ bottle... Add. 19... Boil for 10 minutes, and serve very hot. 27.-COLLARED BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ribs of beef... This is for a large joint. Have the joint boned. 2... Saltpetre 2 OZ. 1 3- Sal-prunella 2 OZ. Pound all together in a mortar, and 4... Bay salt 2 OZ. ' rub it into the beef well on both 5... Sugar i lb. ... sides. 6... White salt ... 2 lbs. ... 7... ... Turn it every day and rub it well for 8 days. 8... Take it out of the pickle, wash it and wipe it dry. 9... Cloves \ OZ. 10... Mace do. II... Allspice 12 corns 12... 13... Grated nutmeg Pepper I I spoon- ful Sprinkle all over the beef, and toll ^ it up very tight. 14... Chopped parsley 2 large spoonsful 15... Sweet herbs... do. 16... Put a coarse cloth round it, and tie it up tight with tape. 17... Boil it in a large copper of water. 18... If it be a large collar it will take 6 hours, but a small one will be done in 5 hours. 19... Take it out and put it in a press till cold, or, if you have no press, put it between two boards with heavy weights upon it. 20... Parsley Garnish the dish. q 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOOK. 84 28.-PRIED BEEF, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lard i lb. ... Melt in a frying-pan on a quick fire. 2... Sausages I lb. ... Put into the pan. 3- Cold beef ... i^lb. ... Cut into slices and put in the pan. 4... Stock 2 table Vinegar spoonsful 1 Pour over. 5... 2 or 3 drops 6... Leave it on the fire \ hour. 7... Dress the beef and sausages on a warm dish in a ring. 8... Pour the sauce in the middle, and serve. 29-BROILED BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I..- Remr.ins , of Cut into rather thick slices. cold beef 2... Rub some suet on the gridiron. 3 Salt and pepper Sprinkle on the slices. 4... Broil them on the gridiron. Turn them. 6... Parsley Garnish the dish, and serve. 30.—BEEF, miroton. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Ijlb. ... Cut into equal slices. cold beef 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3- Onions 2 or 3 ... Cut into dice and add. 4... Let them fry brown. 5... Flour I tea- Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon.8S BEEF. BEEF, en miroton—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... 7... 8... g... lO... II... Stock Salt and pepper Vinegar or white wine Chopped parsley A few table- spoonsful The same as stock - Add gradually, stirring with the spoon. i Let it simmer uncovered. ^ Warm the beef in the sauce and serve. 31.- -BEEF BOULETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17.,. Remains of cold beef Sausage meat Fat bacon ... Remains of cold fowl Chopped parsley Chopped chives Bread crumbs Milk or stock Beaten eggs... Flour Butter I lb. ... ^Ib. ... \ lb. ... h lb. ... 1 Very r little 4 oz. \ pint ... 2 \ lb. ... y Mince and mix together. Put the whole in a basin. Mix together, and then add to the mince. Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle over a paste board. Take a spoonful of mince, roll it in the flour, and make a ball of it. Use up the whole of the mince in the same way. Melt in a frying-pan or stewpan over a slow fire. When the butter is melted, put in the balls of meat to fry. Serve them without sauce, or with the following preparation.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 86 BEEF BOJJLETTES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I8... ig... Chopped onions Vinegar A handful of small ones 2 or 3 drops Throw into the pan when you take the balls out. Add. 20... 21... ... Tomato sauce Pour over the balls of meat and serve immediately. Very good served with the boulettes, or separately in a sauce bowl. 32.- -BEEP TURNOVERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5-" 6... 7... Cold roast beef Stock or gravy Pepper and salt Stale bread ... Butter Sauce piquante Ij lb. ... 1 pint ... To taste 2 oz. Cut in slices. Put the beef in to warm, but do not let it boil or it will be hard. Add. Cut in slices the same size as the meat. Fry the bread in butter. Put alternate slices of fried bread and meat round the dish. Pour into the centre and serve. 33.-BOILED BEEP, gvatin Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7- Bacon Grated crusts Mushrooms ... Onions Parsley Pepper and salt i lb. ... 3 oz. ... A few ... 2 A few sprigs Cut in thin slices, and brown on the fire. Lay them m an earthen baking dish. Grate fine, and sprinkle over. 1 Chop and mix together, and put a 1 layer on the grated crumbs.BEEF. 87 BOILED BEEF, au gratin—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Slices of meat Trim them neatly and lay them in the dish. g... Cover them with another layer of the chopped herbs, &c. 10... Grated crumbs Put on a thick layer to cover all. II... Stock ipint ... Add. 12... Bake in the oven, brown the top before the fire and serve in the same dish. 34.-BEEP SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Cut into slices, and put in a salad boiled beef bowl. 2... Chervil 3- Chives 1 Chop fine and sprinkle over. 4... Tarragon 5- Pepper 6... Oil 1 Add to taste. 7... Vinegar 35.-MINCED BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold beef I lb. ... Mince fine. 2... Sausage meat i lb. ... do. and mix with the beef. 3- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Throw in the minced beef. 5- Flour I pinch ... Sprinkle over, mixing with a wooden spoon. 6... Salt and pepper do. do. 7... 8... Chives Parsley 1 Chop fine and add. 9... White wine ... ^ wine 10... Stock with the fat taken off glass do. i Pour over. II... Let it stew 20 minutes. 12... Garnish the dish with toast, and serve.88 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 36.—MIRITON OF BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-" 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 37.- Lean bacon ... Underdone beef Chopped pars- ley, chopped onion Pepper and salt Stock water ... Bread crumbs, mashed pota- toes or drip- ping paste Parsley -BEEF A 8 slices ...j 8 slices ... 1 I dessert 1 spoonful A little I gill, good measure ND PC Fry I or 2 minutes. Place some in a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish. Place a layer upon the bacon. 1 Mix together and sprinkle a little 1 over the beef. Repeat 2, 3, 4, until the bacon and meat is all used up. Add. Cover over the top. Bake I hour. Serve hot or cold. Garnish the dish. TATO SANDWICHES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-" 4.... 6... 7.. 8.. Cold roast beef Mashed potato Egg Bread crumbs Clarified drip- ping 'Parsley 8 slices ... 8 table- spoonsful I 6 table- spoonsful Jib. ... A few sprigs 1 Spread the slices of beef on both 1 sides with potato. Brush over the sandwiches. Cover the sandwiches. Melt in a frying-pan. When the fat boils, fry the sandwiches a light brown. Fry and garnish the sandwiches. Or serve with thick, brown sauce, piquante {see p. 289).89 BEEi-'. 88.—COW-HEEL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cow-hccl I Place in. a pan. 2... Boiling Welter *.. Pour over to clean. 3--- Allow the cow-heel to steep \ an hour. 4... Put it into another pan. c Cold water ... Pour over. 6... Let it steep 2 minutes. 7... Take it out, dry, and clean. 8... Cold water ... Put into a stewpan. 9... 3 quarts... Pour over. 10,.. Simmer gently 6 Jiours. Put on a dish. 12... Sauce piquante 1 pint ... Pour over and serve hot. {see p. 289), or parsley and butter {see p. 288), Note.—The liquor can be made into soup or sweet jelly, flavoured accordingly. 89.-OX-TONGUE, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tongue fresh I Soak 3 or 4 hours in cold water. from pickle 2... Cold water ... Put the tongue into a stewpan. 3.- Pour over till the tongue is covered. 4... Herbs I small bunch Add. 5... Boil 3 to 4 hours. 6... Skin. 7... 8... Aspic jelly ... When cold, glaze. Cut into various shapes and use to ornament. 9... Hard boiled white of egg I Chop fine. Colour half with cochineal. Arrange on the tongue and round Parsley the dish in small heaps. 10... A few sprigrs Use also to garnish.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 90 SECTION IV.—VEAL. 1-CALFS HEAD, baked. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Calf's head ... Butter Nutmeg Sweet herbs... Crumb of bread Lemon peel... Butter Flour Piece of beef Sweet herbs... Onion Spice Water The brains ... f Butter Flour Catchup Red wine 1 table spoonful 2 oz. 1 lemon... 2 oz. J lb. .. I bunch.. I If liked .. I pint .. I oz. I tea spoonful 1 table spoonful 2 table spoonsful Pick and wash very clean. Rub the inside of an earthen dish large enough to hold the head. Lay some long iron skewers across the top of the dish, and lay the head on them. Skewer up the meat in the middle, that it may not touch the dish. Grate over every part of the meat. Chop small and sprinkle on the meat. do. do. Stick into the eyes, and on different parts of the head. Dredge all over. Cut small and put into the dish. Add. do. do. do. do. When the head is done a nice brown, lay it on a dish, and put it before the fire to keep warm. Stir the contents of the dish, and boil in a saucepan. Strain off, and put into the sauce- pan again. ) Roll it in the flour, and put it in the i saucepan. ^Add. Boil them together, pour them all into the dish, and send to table. The tongue must be baked in the head to make a handsome dish.91 VEAL, 2.-CALFS HEAD, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Calf's head. The brain .. I Cold water.. I Salt Hot water .. Water Parsley Thyme Bay leaf Pepper and salt Melted butter or cream Lemon juice Cayenne I pinch.. 1 pint , A little , A little I 2 table- spoonsful J lemon I pinch ... Soak in cold water hours, then for 10 minutes in hot water, before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan with enough cold water for the head to swim in. When the scum rises, skim very carefully. After it boils let it simmer i J hours. Separate the two lobes of the brain with a knife. I Soak the brain in it i hour. Pour away the cold water and cover the brain with hot water. Clean and skin it. Boil very gently, skimming carefully. Put all into a stewpan. and Chop the brains and add. Stir well, warm thoroughly, serve with the head. Ham or slices of bacon should be served with calf's head. 3.—CALF'S HEAD, a la PouUtte. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Remains of calf's head already cooked Butter Flour 2 oz. I or 2 tea spoonsful Cut in nice slices. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Mix in the butter with a wooden spoon.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 92 CALF'S HEAD, d la Poulette—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Savoury herbs Stock free from grease Salt and pepper Beaten yolks of eggs Lemon juice or vinegar If liked. I pint . 2 or 3 drops Chop fine and add. Add at once as the butter must not brown. Sprinkle over. Let this sauce simmer uncovered a quarter of an hour. Put the pieces of head in just long enough to warm, but do not let them boil. Warm the dish. Place the meat upon it and keep it hot. I Stir up together. Take the sauce off the fire, and when it has ceased boiling, add the egg. Stir gently with a wooden spoon. Pour the sauce over and serve hot. 4—CALF'S BRAINS, a la Mattre d'Hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Brains Boiling water Cold water .. Butter Flour or Stock, water, white wine... 2 oz. I dessert spoonful I pint .., Dress and skin. Put them in a dish. Pour over the brains till covered. Let them steep 2 or 3 hours. Throw away the water. Pour over the brains. Let them steep 10 minutes. Drain through a sieve. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pour over the butter, still stirring, and see that the butter does not brown. When the sauce is well mixed, put in the brains with a skimmer.VEAL. 03 CALF'S BRAINS, a la Mattre d'H$tel--{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... Salt and pepper A good deal To season well. 14... Nutmeg ) 15- Mushrooms ... V Add if liked. 16... Small onions 4 or 5 ... ) 17... Let the whole simmer ^ hour. 18... ... Put the brains on a dish and draw the saucepan towards the edge of the stove. 19... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up in a basin. 20... Water A few Add. drops 21... Sweet herbs... I pinch... Chop and add. 22... Vinegar or A few Add; beat all up together and add to lemon juice drops the sauce in the saucepan. 23... Pour the sauce over the brains and serve hot. 5.—CALF'S BRAINS, au heurre noir. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Brains Salt Boiling water Vinegar Salt Onions Cloves ^ wine- glass I pinch Skin and put in a dish. Sprinkle over. Pour over the brains till they are covered. Let them steep 2 or 3 hours. Take off the remaining skin and throw away the water. Pour cold water over. Add. Let them remain a few minutes. Put them on to another dish with the skimmer. Pour the vinegar and water into a saucepan. Cut into slices, and add. Stick into the onions.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 94 CALF'S BRAINS, au bmrre noir—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... Parsley 15... Chervil 16... Chives 17... Thyme 18... Bay-leaf ig... ... 20... ••• 21... 22... Butter 23... Salt 24... Parsley 25... 3 oz. Tie into a bunch and add. Put the brains on the top, and let them simmer J hour. Take the brains out with the skimmer and place them on a dish. Keep the dish hot over a saucepan of boiling water. Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire till it becomes dark brown. Sprinkle over. Fry in the butter. Pour the contents of the frying-pan on to the brains and serve. 6.~CALFS BRAINS, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Brains Butter Flour Stock Salt and pepper Chopped herbs Lukewarm vinegar 2 oz. I dessert spoonful I tea cupful Parsley Skim and soak three hours in vinegar and water. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Put in the brains. When nearly done, take the brains out and let them cool. Cut them into slices. Sprinkle salt over. Pour over and let them steep J hour. Drain when ready to fry them. Roll in flour, beaten egg, and bread crumbs. Fry a delicate brown in boiling fat. Fry and place round the dish. Serve with tomato sauce if liked.95 VEAL. 7.-VEAL CUTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Veal cutlet ... 2 lbs. ... Cut into small pieces J inch thick. 2... Sweet herbs... I bunch... Chop fine. 3"- Bread crumbs 3 oz. Mix with the herbs. 4... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and brush over the cutlets, then cover them with the crumbs and nerbs. 5- Fry them lightly in butter, and take out when done. 6... I oz. .•• 7... Lemon peel... J oz. ... Grate and mix with the butter. 8... Nutmeg do. 9... Flour I tea spoonful Add. 10... Water Pour into the frying-pan, and stir the flour, butter, and grated lemon peel into it. II... Put the cutlets into this gravy to heat. 12... Serve with thin rolls of bacon round the dish. 8.--VEAL CUTLETS, a la hourgeoise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets 2 lbs. ... Cut into nice pieces ^ inch thick. 2... Bacon i lb. ... Lard them lengthways. 3- Butter i lb. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Flour I table Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden Stock or water spoonful spoon. 5... i^ pint ... Pour over gradually, still stirring. 6... Place the cutlets in the stewpan. 7... Parsley 8... Thyme Tied in a |Add. 9... Chervil bunch 10... Tarragon II... Carrots 2 Add. 12... Small onions 3 or 4 ... 1 Add. 13... Mushrooms ... 2 or 3 ...96 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. VEAL CUTLETS, a la bourgeoise—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... i5-.. 16... 17... Salt and pepper Cloves 2 or 3 ... 1 Add. When the cutlets are done, dress the vegetables in the middle of the dish, and the cutlets round. Take the grease off the sauce, and strain over the dish. 9—VEAL CUTLETS, sautees. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... Veal cutlets... Salt and pepper Parsley Eschalots ... Butter Vinegar Bread Salt and pepper Flour Onion, chives Stock White wine or water 2 lbs. ... 1 Chop fine k lb. ... 2 or 3 drops A pinch... I spoonful I wine- glass Cut into pieces | inch thick. Sprinkle over. do. Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. Put in the cutlets, turn them fre- quently. Add to make the meat tender. Let them fry a nice brown. Cut into slices, and fry separately. When the cutlets are done, put the fried bread into a dish, and the cutlets on the top. Sprinkle over. Draw the dish to the side of the fire. Sprinkle into the frying-pan the cut- lets were done in. Add if liked. Pour gently into the pan, still on the fire. Add. Stir well with a wooden spoon, scraping up the glaze that forms in the pan. Pour this sauce on the cutlets, and serve hot.VEAL. 97 10-VEAL CUTLETS, Glazed. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Veal cutlets.., Bacon Butter Stock Carrots Onions Knuckle of Veal Salt and pepper 2 lbs. iib. 2 OZ. 1 large cupful 2 cut in dice 2 sliced to taste Trim them and take off the skin. Lard the cutlets with bacon. Melt in a stewpan. Place the cutlets on the butter. ^Add. Stew gently till the cutlets are done, then put them on a hot dish. Keep the cutlets hot. Reduce the gravy in the stewpan. Pour the gravy through a hair sieve on to the cutlets and serve. 11.-VEAL CUTLETS, with Sowel. Ingredients. Veal cutlets. Bacon Butter Salt Salt Parsley Carrots Onions Eschalots Bay-leaf Quantities, 4 OZ. To taste 3 or 4 sprigs 2 sliced.. 3 or 4 large ones 3 or 4 I if liked Method. Trim them, remove the skin, and flatten them well. Lard the cutlets with bacon. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Brown the cutlets in the butter. Sprinkle over them. When browned on one side turn them and brown the other side. Sprinkle again. Add. Cover the stewpan with a large sheet of buttered paper. HMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. VEAL CUTLETS, with Soyrel—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Puree of Sorrel Simmer for two hoiTs on a slow fire. Moisten with the gravy from the cutlets. Prepare separately and pile in the dish. Lay the cutlets on the sorrel round the dish, and keep them hot. Reduce the gravy and pour it through a hair sieve over the cutlets. Note.—Spinach can be used in place of Sorrel, if preferred. 12.--FILLET OF VEAL, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fillet of Veal Forcemeat .. Buttered paper Flour Butter Melted butter Lemon juice Veal gravy ... Slicesoflemon 12...I ... ilb. i lemon... Take out the bone, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision between the fillet and the flap. Fill the incision with it. Bind the veal in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and twine; run a skewer as nearly through the middle as you can. Cover the veal v/ith it, and put it at some distance from the fire at first, advancing it as it becomes cooked. Baste well. Dredge over when you take off the paper just before the veal is done. Baste well with it. Remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver one. Pour over. Put round the dish. Serve with boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork.99 VEAL. 13-LOIN OP VEAL, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... Loin of veal... Buttered paper Flour Butter Melted butter 7 lbs. ... 2 OZ. Choose the kidney end, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer; run a skewer through the end lengthways. Cover the veal with it, and place it before a good fire to roast. Dredge just before serving. Baste do. Pour over when in the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on toast, if pre- ferred. 14.~SH0ULDER OP VEAL, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-.. Shoulder of veal Remove the knuckle. Roast what remains like the fillet, stuffing it or not as preferred. If not stuffed, serve with oyster or mushroom sauce and garnish with sliced lemon. 15-SHOULDER OP VEAL, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Shoulder of veal Salt and pepper Nutmeg Butter To taste Bone it. 1 Sprinkle over the meat. Roll the veal in an oblong shape, and tie it up with string. Melt in a large stewpan on a slow fire. 4... 5- 4 OZ. H 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. lOO SPIOULDER OF VEAL, stewed~{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Flour I table- spoonful Sprinkle into the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. 7- 8... Stock ... I pint ... Pour in gradually, still stirring. Put in the rolled veal. g... Salt A pinch... Add. lO... Thyme 2 or 3 sprigs 1 Add to flavour, if liked. II... Bay-leaf I 12... Close the stewpan with a cover with raised edges, and place hot coals on the top. 13- Let the meat stew for 4 or 5 hours. 14... Onions 3 or 4 ... 15... Mushrooms ... 5 or 6 ... 1 Boil any of these apart, or stew 16... Green peas ... I pint ... j them with the veal. 17... Carrots 3 or 4 ... 18... When the meat is done dress it on the dish and take away the string; put the vegetables round the meat and serve very hot. 1 16.~BREAST OP VEAL, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Breast of Veal Buttered paper Melted butter Gravy Sliced lemon Take off the tendons, and skewer the sweetbread to the joint. Cover the meat and place it to roast for i^ hours, more or less accord- ing to weight. Serve with the meat. It can be roasted without the sweet- bread, which with the tendons can be served up as an entree.tot VEAL. 17.—BREAST OP VEAL, with white sauce. Ingredients. Breast of Veal Boiling water Butter Flour Salt Water Parsley Eschalots Thyme Bay-leaves Mushrooms Yolks of eggs Vinegar or lemon juice Quantities. 3 lbs. i lb. ... I table spoonful To taste I cupful.., 3 sprigs... 3 or 4 ... A few sprigs 2 5 or 6 ... I or 2 .., A few drops Method. Cut the meat in pieces and put them in an earthen jar. Pour over sufficient to cover the meat. Blanch it and let it drain. Melt in a saucepan without browning. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pour in gradually, stirring all the time. Put the pieces of veal in the sauce. 1 Tie together in a bunch and put in I the saucepan, ^Add if liked. Stew gently for i hour at least. Break into a basin. Pour into the beaten eggs drop by drop, stirring with a wooden spoon the whole time. When the meat is done, put it in a dish and keep it hot. Take the sauce off the fire, and skim it. Mix with it gradually the beaten eggs, stirring constantly. Put the sauce back on the fire, to make it quite hot, but without letting it boil. Pour the sauce over the meat and serve. 18.-KNUCKLE OF VEAL, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Knuckle of Put into a stewpan. veal 2... Water Pour over till covered. 3- Let it simmer slowly.102 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. KNUCKLE OF VEAL, boiled—{continued). Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. 4... Salt I dessert Throw in when it reaches the boiling spoonful point. 5- ..* ••• ••• ••• Keep it well skimmed, and boil it 20 minutes to each pound. 6... Parsley and Serve with it. butter 7... Salted pig's do. cheek 8... Rice 1 lb. ... May also be boiled with it. 9... Serve with green peas or vegetable marrow stewed. 19-FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fillet of veal I slice ... Cut a handsome slice, trim it neatly round. 2... Fat bacon ... i lb. ... Lard the veal closely. 3"' Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put the meat in. 5- Salt and pepper 6... Bunch of herbs 7... Remains of bacon Add. 8... Carrots in 2 slices 9... Onions in 3 slices 10... Stock or Pour over till all is covered. water II... Let it simmer 5 or 6 hours. 12... Put the meat on a dish, and keep it hot. 13... Strain the gravy, skim off the fat, and put back on the fire. 14... Flour I pinch Add, stirring with a wooden spoon. 15... Boil it till thickened. 16... Put the meat in again a minute. 17... Serve with a puree of spinach, sorrel, or green peas.103 VEAL 20.-CALF S HEART, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's heart... Put, to disgorge, in lukewarm water for an hour. 2... Wipe it dry. 3- Veal stuffing ... ... Stuff the heart with it and season well. A Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. J'" Serve it with good gravy, or any piquante sauce. 6... Serve as hot as possible. 21.- -CALFS LIVER, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fat bacon ... i lb. ... Cut it to lard the liver. 2... Parsley ] Chop fine and roll the bacon in the 3- Salt and pepper > mixture of parsley, salt, pepper, 4... Nutmeg ... ) and nutmeg. 5— Calf's liver ... ... Skin, and lard with the bacon, which should not show. 6... ... ... Put it into a pan. 7... Salt and pepper ... Sprinkle over. 8... Olive oil 2 table Pour over. spoonsful ... 9... Bunch of herbs Add to flavour. 10... ... Let it steep for 5 or 6 hours. II... ... ... Take it up and wipe it carefully. 12... Buttered paper ... Put round it. 13... ... Let it roast ^ hour before a gentle fire. 14... ••• ..• ... Take off the paper to let it brown I minute. 15... When the gravy ceases to drop it is done. 16... Liver gravy - with the grease off 17... Eschalots 2 or 3 ... ^ Mix in a basin to make a sauce 18... Sweet herbs... Chopped piquante. fine 19... Stock 2 table spoonsfulI04 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CALF'S LIVER, roasied—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 20... 21... 22... 23... Capers Lemon juice... J lemon... Add if liked, do. Dress the liver on a dish. Pour the sauce over, or serve it separately. 22.—CALF'S LIVER, a la bourgeoise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... Calf's liver ... Parsley chopped fine Salt and pepper Nutmeg Butter Flour i"ib. ::: I table spoonful Lard well all over with bacon rolled in the following mixture: 1 To season the bacon. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Let it brown. Mix it in the butter with a wooden spoon. Salt and pepper Stock or water White or red wine Onions Carrots Salt and pepper Bunch of herbs ••• •.> ) \ pint ... V do. ... 2 or 3 ... 2 Put the liver in the butter. Sprinkle over. 1 Add when half cooked. Slice and put round the liver. Slice and add. Add. Add. Cover the stewpan, and put it in the oven, or put hot coals on the cover. Let it bake 2 or 3 hours, but see that the liver does not stick to the pan. When the liver is done, put it in a dish and keep it warm. Put a cullender on a basin.VEAL. CALF'S LIVER, A la bourgeoise—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 21... Pour the gravy through, and take off the grease. 22... Butter 2 oz. Melt in another stewpan. 23... Flour I dessert Sprinkle over and stir in. spoonful 24... Gravy Add gradually. 25... Let it simmer i minute uncovered. 26... Pour it over the liver. 27... Place the carrots and onions round. 28... Capers or pickles Add if liked. 23.-CALFS LIVER AND BACON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf sliver ... 2ilbs. ... Soak in cold water for i hour, dry on a cloth, and cut into thin nar- row slices. 2... Bacon I lb. ... Cut as many thin slices as you have slices of liver. 3- Fry the bacon lightly, take it out, and keep it hot. 4- Fry the liver in the same pan. 5- Pepper and Sprinkle over. salt 6... Flour ... Dredge over. 7... When it is a nice brown, arrange it round the dish, with a roll of bacon between each slice of liver. 8... Pour off the fat from the pan. 9... Butter 2 OZ. 10... Flour I dessert 1 Rub together, and put in the gravy. spoonful II... Lemon juice I lemon Squeeze in. 12... Hot water ... I teacup- ful Add. 13... Serve with forcemeat balls, or slices of lemon.io6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 24-CALF'S LIVER, Saute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... 2 lbs. ... Cut in thin slices and flatten them by beating. 2... 3- Salt and pepper Flour To taste A pinch... 1 Sprinkle on both sides. 4 •• Butter J lb. ... ... Melt in a frying pan on a brisk fire. ... Put in the slices of liver. 6... Parsley A few 1 7- 8... Eschalots Chives sprigs 3 or 4 ... A few ... > Chop fine and add if liked. ] g... ... When the liver is done on one side turn it on the other. lO... White or red wine I wine glassful Add. II... Boil for 10 minutes. 12... Stock Add to thin the gravy as required. 13- Dress the pieces of liver round the dish. 14... Sippets of If liked... Fry and place between the slices of bread liver. 15... Pour the gravy into the middle of the dish and serve. 25.—CALF'S CROW, with Vinegar Sauce, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's crow ... Put in a pan. 2... Boiling water I quart ... Pour over to cover the crow. 3- Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Let it soak for 3 or 4 hours. 5- Put it into another pan. 6... Cold water ... I quart ... Pour over as before. 7... 8... Let it stand and cool for ^ hour. Drain through a strainer. 9... Cut it in pieces and put in a saucepan. 10... Salt and pepper To taste Add. II... Onions 2 or 3 ... do. 12... Carrots do. ... do. • 13- Bunch of herbs do.107 VEAL. CALF'S CROW, with Vinegar Sauce—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... Water with \ white wine or vinegar Parsley Oil Vinegar Salt, pepper... Eschalots Parsley Tarragon Enough to cover the meat 6 dessert spoonsful 2 dessert spoonsful To taste 3 or 4 A few sprigs A few sprigs Pour over and let it stew gently for at least 3 hours. Take out the pieces with a skimmer, let them drain, and pile them in the dish. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. Chop the herbs fine, and mix all !- together to make a sauce served separately in a sauce tureen. 26-CALFS SWEETBREAD, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... g... Sweetbreads Veal broth ... Pepper and salt Marjoram ... Flour Beaten yolks of eggs 3 I pint ... I tea spoonful 2 Soak in warm water for i hour, and put them into a stewpan. ■ Add. Let them stew rather more than \ an hour. Place them on a hot dish. Sprinkle in to thicken the gravy. Add, and let the sauce get quite hot V'/ithout boiling. Pour the sauce over the sv/eetbread, and serve.io8 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 27.'-CALP'S FEET, a la poulette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. V/dii 0 ICCi ... 3 Place in a pan. 2,,, Soiling Welter Pour over to clean them* q O"' Let them steep ^ hour. 4... Put them into another pan* 5"- v^uxu w<tLcr ... Pour over. 6... Let them steep 2 minutes. / ••• 8... Take them out, dry and clean them. Cut them lengthways, and take out ♦"Via r\rinr^iT^ii 1 nrvriA g... 3 pints ... Boil them in it 2 or 3 hours* 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan. II... Flour I pinch ... Stir in. 12... Stock or water Pour in gradually, stirrmg with the the feet were r»tV\f»r liJitifl with a wnnrlpn Qr>nnn boiled in 13... Salt 14... Parsley ... A 1i'ff1« tx iiLiie ... 15... Mushrooms... 5 or 6 16... Small onions 3 or 4 ... > Add to the sauce if liked* 17... Salt and pepper 18... Bay leaf I 19... Yolk of egg ... Lemon juice I 20... A few ► Beat up in a basin. or vinegar drops 21.. 22... Parsley Chives 1 Chop fine and add. 23... Take the saucepan off the fire. 24... Pour the contents of the basin into the saucepan when the sauce has done boiling, stirring all the time. 25... Take the feet out of the pot. 26... Put them on the dish with the onions and mushrooms round them. 27... Pour the sauce over, and serve*109 VEAL, 28-MINCED VEAL. •der. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold fillet or loin Mince fine. 2... The bones of ••• ••• Put into a stcwpan. cold veal and other trimmings of the meat 3- Flour Dredge over. 4... Water or stock i\ pint ... Pour in. 5- Sliced onion... I 1 6... Minced lemon ^ tea peel spoonful ^Add. 7... 8... Pepper and salt Bunch of herbs J . 9... Simmer for more than i hour. 10... Strain the gravy. II... Butter rolled I oz. Thicken the gravy with it. in flour 12... Boil the gravy again and skim it well. 13... Add the meat and warm it gradually. 14... Lemon juice I lemon... Add the lemon juice. 15... Milk or cream 3 table Add. spoon sful 16... Do not let it quite boil, but when it is on the point of doing so, take it off the fire. 17... Toasted bread Cut into sippets and garnish the dish round the edge with them. 18... Pile the mince in the centre of the dish. 19... Serve with fried bacon and slices of lemon. 29-BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast veal 2 lbs. ... Cut in nice thin slices, and take off any bits of skin. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Flour I dessert Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon, but do not let the butter brown.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 110 BLANQUETTE OF VEAL—icontinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... ig... 20... 21... Salt and pepper White stock or cream Parsley Veal broth ... Mushrooms ... Small onions Artichokes ... Yolks of eggs Vinegar Chives Salt and pepper ••• ••« To taste i pint. ... I bunch... 1 pint ... Cut in quarters 3 or 4 ... 2 or 3 ... 2 A few drops Chop fine To taste Put in the slices of meat and stir well with the spoon. Add. Add by degrees, stirring all the time. Add. Simmer gently for 10 minutes. 1 Put in another saucepan and boil. 1 Add to the sauce if liked. Pour the sauce over the meat. Take out the parsley. Leave the stewpan on the fire a few minutes, and then put the meat on a hot dish. Break in a basin. Mix gradually with the eggs. Add if liked. Add and beat up with a whisk. Pour into the sauce, which must be hot without boiling. Stir the sauce thoroughly and pour over the meat. *30.—VEAL CROQUETTES, io use up cold roast veaL 0.-dcr. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Flour I dessert Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon. 3--- Salt and Add, still stirring. pepper 4... Nutmeg Grate and add. 5-- Mushrooms ... 2 ) Chop and add : let them cook an 6.. Parsley A little ... ) instant.VEAL. VEAL CROQUETTES, to use up cold roast veal—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... Milk or cream Stock or gravy f Equal \ quantities j Pour over, still stirring gently. 9... Let the sauce thicken and boil. 10... Cold roast ^ i^ lb. ... ) veal V Mince and add to the sauce. II... Veal fat 4 oz. 12... ... Take the saucepan oft the fire. 13.- Let it cool and thicken. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and stir into the saucepan. 15... Bread crumbs Put into a dish. 16... ::: Fill a dessert spoon with the mix- ture in the saucepan, and put it in the bread crumbs. 17... ... Rub it in the crumbs, and roll it in a round or oblong shape. 18... ... ... Repeat the operation till all is used 19... Eggs 2 or 3 ... Beat up the yolks and whites. 20... Salt and pepper Add. 21... Dip ii. each ball of meat, then rub it in the bread crumbs again. 22... Fry the croquettes a fine brown. 23... Sait Add. 24... Parsley Fry and put round the dish. 25... Serve hot, with the sauce. 31.-VEAL CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Veal li lb. ... Take off all skin and fat, and cut in 2... Bacon h lb. ... Cut in thin slices. [slices. 3-- Salt and To taste cayenne Mace I tea spoonful Chop the lemon peel very fine and 4... V mix with the rest to season the meat. 5... Nutmeg i-third 6... Lemon peel... I lemon 7... Lay the veal and bacon in a basin in layers, and sprinkle the seasoning 8... Stock A little ... Add to form a jelly. [over. 9... Bake i^ hour and turn out when cold.112 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 32.—GALANTINE OF VEAL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Breast of veal Sausage-meat Chopped pars- ley Eschalot chop- ped Grated lemon rind Pepper and salt Glazing Aspic jelly ... j Hard boiled white of egg Parsley I small one I lb. I dessert spoonful lemon A little A few sprigs Take out the tendons and bones. Trim the meat to about 9 inches wide and 16 long. Arrange the trimmings at the bottom of a braising-pan. .Mix well together and spread on f the meat. Roll and sew it up. Braise for hours, or tie in a cloth, and boil. When cold glaze, having first re- moved the string. Ornament the veal. Chop up very fine, colour half with a little cochineal; arrange in small heaps on the galantine and round the dish. Garnish the dish. 83.-CALF'S BRAINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calfs brains... 2 Allow them to soak \ hour in warm water. 2... Remove the outer skin. 3 Boiling water Tie the brains in a piece of musHn, cover with boiling water, and steep J to I hour. Let them cool. Divide into 4. 4... Eg:g I Beat-up and brush over each of the 4 pieces. 5... Bread-crumbs 4 table- Cover the brains. spoonsful113 VEAL, CALF'S BRAINS (conthmed.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Clarified drip- ilb. ... Melt in a fryingpan; when the fat ping boils, fry the cakes a light brown. 7... Mashed potato 4 table- Place in the centre ©f a dish, arrange spoonsful the cakes on it. 8... Thick brown ^ pint ... Pour round the dish. Serve hot. gravy 34.—CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN OR VEAL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... Chicken or ilb. ... Mince very fine. veal 2... Ham ... I oz. Mince and add. 3-.. Bread crumbs I oz. Add. 4... Pepper, salt ... To taste... Add. 5... Lemon juice ... iofa lemon Add. 6... Butter I oz. Add. 7... 8... Warm milk or I gill ... Add, mix well with the other in- white stock gredients. Make into balls or small rolls of equal size. 9... Thin puff Cover the rolls. paste 10... Egg I Beat up and dip the croquettes in. II... Bread crumbs 3 oz. Cover the croquettes. 12... Clarified drip- ping i-lb. ... Put into a fr3angpan. 13... When the fat boils, place the cro- quettes in it and fry a nice brown. 14... Parsley or A few sprigs Fry and garnish the dish. 15... Thick brown sauce {seelSo. 56, Sect. xn. Ipint ... Pour over the croquettes. z114 MYRA\S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION V,—MUTTON. l.-LEG OF MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7- Leg of mutton ... Salt and water Currant jelly 2.-L EG OF : For roasting, this joint may be kept much longer than for boiling; it must be wiped very dry and dredged with flour and pepper. Cut off the knuckle, remove the thick skin, and trim off the piece of flank. Put into the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it, afterwards using the gravy from the meat itself. Baste every 10 minutes. Serve with gravy. Serve separately. If you cut this joint in two for roast- ing, put a paste over the cut ends. MUTTON, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2.». 3 •• 4... 5... 6... 7... Leg of mutton Cold water ... Turnips Carrots Caper sauce... Cut off the shank bone, wash and wipe it very clean. Pour into a saucepan over the jomt, which must swim in it. Set over a good fire, and skim as the scum rises. Boil 15 minutes to the pound. 1 Serve on the dish or separately. Serve in a sauce-boat.MUTTON. I 2 3-LEG OP BlUTTON, boned. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Leg of mutton Veal stuffing Ham or bacon Good brown gravy 7 lbs. 3 oz. Buy a small joint and carefully remove the bone. ) Fill up the hole from whence the j bone has been taken. Cover the skin over and sew it up neatly to secure the stuffing Tie it up and roast it for about 3 hours before a bright clear fire. Place round it on the dish when done. 4-LEG OP MUTTON, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of mutton Bone it. 2... Strips of fat lib. Z Use to lard the meat, but the bacon bacon sea- should not be seen. soned with pepper 3- Tie up in a good shape. 4... Fat bacon ... Cut into slices and put at the bottom of a large stewpan. 5- Put the mutton on the bacon. 6... Sliced carrots 3 or 4 ... 7... Onions 3 8... The bone chopped Add. 9... Bunch of parsley 10... Chervil II... Stock with the I quart ... Pour over till all is covered. fat oft", or water 12... Put the stewpan on to boil. I3-. When it boils, put it into a hot oven to simmer till the meat is cooked quite tender. It will take 3 or 4 hours.ii6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. LEG OF MUTTON, braised—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... Put the meat on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, and put it on to the fire again for 2 or 3 minutes. Pour it over the meat, and place the carrots and onions round the dish. 5.-SADDLE OF MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Saddle of mutton Salt and flour Warmed butter Red currant jelly 2 OZ. Take off the skin, cover the fat with buttered paper, and roast it as directed for leg of mutton. Dredge over just before it is done. Drop over it just before it is done. Serve v^ith good gravy, or empty the contents of the dripping pan into a basin, remove the fat, add a httle v/arm v^^ater, and use as gra-vy. Serve separately. 6-SHOULDER OP MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Shoulder of mutton Butter Onion sauce... 2 OZ. Flour the joint well, and put it down to a clear bright fire. Do not baste while roasting, but rub with a little butter. Serve separately.117 MUTTON. 7—SHOULDER OF MUTTON, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... Shoulder Chopped herbs Fat bacon ... Garlic Salt, pepper... Butter Carrots Bunch of parsley Chervil Onions Stock or water, with a little salt 8.-L0 Minced ... If liked... i'ii). 3 or 4 ... 2 or 3 ... i^ pint ... IN OP Bone, by chopping the bone. 1 Mix and sprinkle over the meat. Roll up the meat and tie it with tape. Put at the bottom of a large stewpan. Put in the joint. Brown both sides. 1 1 Slice the onions and carrots and put 1 all in the stewpan. Pour over till all is covered. Let it stew 4 hours and serve. MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... Loin of mutton Flour and salt 9-LC ... UN OP This joint is not economical on account of being so fat. Roast at a bright fire, and baste every 15 minutes. Dredge over just before removing from the fire. MUTTON, stuffed. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Loin of mutton Salt Pepper Veal stuffing Bone it and cut off some of the fat. 1 Sprinkle over for seasoning. Put a layer on the meat. Roll the loin with the stuffing inside and fasten it securely with skewers. Roast before a brisk fire, and before serving remove the skewers.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 5... Let it boil up and skim it. 10.—LOIN OP MUTTON, stewed like venison. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Loin of mutton Skin and bone it. 2... Put it in a stewpan. 3... Water I pint ... Pour over. 4... Onion stuck I large Add. with cloves one Port wine ^ pint ... Add. 6... Vinegar I spoonful Add. 7... Let it come to the boil. 8... Bunch of herbs Thyme and parsley are best. 9... Pepper Add. 10... Salt Add. u... Let it stew 3 hours, turning it often. 12... Bones and Boil down to make stock, and add to trimmings the mutton as required. 13... Strain the sauce and pour it over the mutton in the dish. 14... Red currant Serve with the mutton. jelly ll.-NECK OF MUTTON, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. IVlethod. I... Neck of 4 lbs. ... Buy the best end of the neck, trim mutton oil part of the fat, cut the bones short, and see that it is thoroughly jointed. 2... Roast like a loin. 12.-NECK OF MUTTON, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Neck of 2 lbs. ... Choose the best end and trim off mutton part of the fat. 2... Wash it in cold water. 3"' Put it in a saucepan. 4... Cold water ... Add till the meat is covered.119 MUTTOi\, NECK OF MUTTON, boiled—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6,.. 7... 8... 9... 10. II... 12... 13... Salt Onions Carrots Sweet herbs... Turnips Caper sauce... 1 large spoonful 2 stuck with cloves 3 or 4 ... A bunch 3 or 4 1 J Add to make the scum rise. Skim again, and then let it simmer gently. > Add when the liquor is clear. Add half-an-hour later. Serve the meat and vegetables together.' Serve separately. 13.-MUTTON CHOPS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... Chops Salt, pepper... Fresh butter... Salt, pepper,,. Chopped parsley Chopped eschalot Lemon juice or vinegar Potatoes fried in butter 4 1 oz. I 2 or 3 drops Dress, cut off the skin and most of the fat. Beat on both sides. Sprinkle over both sides. Put on the gridiron over a quick fire. Turn them once. ' Mix into a ball. Put the ball of seasoning in the middle of a hot dish, place the chops round. Serve with the chops, either on the s^ame dish or separately. IMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 14.--MUTT0N CHOPS, bread crumbs. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3..- 4... 5... 6... 7... Chops Salt and pepper Butter Bread crumbs ... Slices of lemon 15.~M 6 i'ib. 4 oz. UTTON Cut off the fat and beat flat with a wooden knife. Sprinkle over both sides. Melt in a frying pan over a slow fire. Dip the chops into the butter, then into the crumbs. Place each chop on the gridiron on a slow fire. Let them broil 10 minutes, turning them once only. Serve separately. CUTLETSi sauiSes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7- 0 0... 9... 10... II... 12... 13.,. Cutlets Salt and pepper Butter Stock Hschalots chopped Fine herbs chopped Salt and pepper Pickled gher- kin in slices 6 i'lb. ::: 2 or 3 spoonsful 2 or 3 ... Cut off the fat and beat with a wet wooden knife. Sprinkle over both sides. Melt in frying pan over a slow fire. Put the cutlets to brown on both sides. Warm a dish. When the cutlets are done, put them on the dish and keep them warm near the fire. 1 Put in the butter that remains in I the pan. Let this sauce boil 2 minutes. Potir it over the cutlets and serve.121 MUTTuN. 16.—MUTTON CUTLETS, a la jardiniere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets 6 Dress, and cut off the fat. 2... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 4- Fry the cutlets in the butter. Put the cutlets on a hot dish. 6... ... Put the dish to keep warm. « 7... Kidney beans 5 pint ... Cut into slices and put in the stewpan. 8... Green peas ... ^ pint ... Add. 9... Cauliflower ... I Divide into small pieces and add. 10... Carrots 2 Cut into small slices and add. II... Turnips 2 do. 12... Potatoes 4 do. 13... Water or stock I pint ... Pour over. 14... Let all simmer till the vegetables are done. 15... Butter 2 oz. Add towards the end, pour the gravy and vegetables over the cutlets and serve. 17.—MUTTON CUTLETS, ^ith vegetables. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Mutton cutlets 6 2... Slices of bacon 3- Good stock ... I pint 4... 5... Carrots 2 or 3 6... Turnips 3 01-4 7... Salsify 3 01-4 8... Celery I head 9... Artichokes ... 3 01*4 10... II... Trim them neatly. Wrap a slice round each cutlet, and tie it on with string. Braise the cutlets in the stock. When done, take them out and keep hot. I Boil the vegetables in water, cut I them in pieces, not too small, and I put them into the sauce in the braising pan. Let them stew for a short time. Arrange the cutlets on a dish, and serve with the vegetables round them.122 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 18.-MUTTON CUTLETS, with rice. rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mutton cutlets 6 Trim and broil on both sides. 2... 3--- Salt Pepper I Sprinkle over before broiling. 4- Rice jib. Wash, and boil in water for 5 minutes. 5... ... Drain and dry the rice. 6... Put it in a stewpan. 7... Stock ... I pint ... Add to the rice. 8... Salt, pepper... To season. Cayenne A pinch Add if liked. pepper 10... Stew for 20 minutes, stirring frequently. II... Tomato sauce A little ... Add and mix well in. 12... Dress the rice in a heap in the centre of the dish, and put the cutlets round. 19.—MUTTON CUTLETS, a la Maintenon, f^rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets 8 Cut them thick, beat them, and then cut them through the centre. 2... Mushrooms ... 2 spoons- ful Chop, and put in a stewpan. 3- Parsley I spoonful Chop fine and add. 4... Eschalots I spoonful Chop and add. 5"' Salt Add. 6... Pepper Add. 7... Garlic I clove ... Add. 8... Mixed spice ... A pinch... Add. g... Butter 2 02. Add to the ingredients in the stew- pan, and keep on a brisk fire 5 miniites, stirring all the time. 10... Put a portion of the forcemeat into each cutlet. II... 12... Close the cutlets, and broil them 4 minutes on each side. Put the remainder of the forcemeat into a sauce espagnole, and serve it under the cutlets.123 MuTTuX. 20-BREAST OF MUTTON, boiled. Order Ingredients Quantities Method. I... Breast of ... ... Tie it up and boil it in water. mutton 2... When tender take it out and let it cool. 3... Untie it, trim, and take off the skin. 4... Salt and pepper To taste Sprinkle over on both sides. 5-- Bread crumbs 4 oz. Stale bread is best. 6... Butter 2 oz. Melt on a slow fire. 7... 8... Dip the mutton in the butter and bread crumbs, and broil on a brisk fire. When one side is done turn the meat. 9... Parsley A few Serve the mutton dry, garnished with sprigs parsley. 10... Sauce piquante or tomato sauce can be served separately. 21.-BREAST OP MUTTON, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of mutton Divide it in small pieces. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Put the pieces of mutton in, brown them, and take them out again. 4... Flour I dessert spoonful Add to the butter and mix well. 5... Salt and pepper To taste Add. 6... Onions 2, stuck with cloves Add. 7... Sweet herbs... I bunch... Add. 8... Stock ^pint ... Add. 9... Peas, French beans or other vege- 1 At will... I Add. tables 10... Put in the meat, and put the cover on the stewpan. II... Let it simmer gently till tender. 12... Take out the herbs. 13... Serve the meat with the vegetables.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. t24 22.-HARICOT MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Metnou. I... Breast or Have it cut up by the butcher into shoulder of 10 or 12 small pieces. mutton 2... Flour and 2 OZ, ... Fry them brown in butter and a butter little flour. 3 ... O'" Let them fry about 15 minutes. A.... Warm water 2 dessert Add, stirring. spoonsful Sprinkle over* 6... Parsley J Tied in a Add. bunch V1I Viav Ipaf vii) ut*y iccti 7... T *if 'ill citntYiPf X nrkiif 8... Turnips and 4 of each Peel and slice. potatoes Fry the turnips in another stewpan 9... Butter i lb. ... and let them brown. 10... Add the vegetables to the meat 4 hour before the meat is done. II... Put the meat and vegetables on a dish. 12... Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the meat, and serve. 23.-IRISH STEW. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ... Neck of 2ilbs. ... Divide into cutlets and trim off part mutton of the fat. 2... Potatoes 4^ lbs. ... Pare and cut them in thick slices. Put some of the potatoes in a stew- pan. 4... Pepper and salt Sprinkle over the meat. 5- Put a layer of cutlets on the layer of potatoes. 6... Add another layer of potatoes and meat, and put a thick layer of potatoes on top. 7... Onions 2 or 3 if Cut in shreds and strew over. liked125 MUTTON. I IRISH STEW—{contmued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Cold water ... I pint ... Add. 9 .. Salt I oz. Add when the stew begins to boil. 10... Let it simmer gently 2^ hours. II... Serve very hot. Note —Irish stew can also be bakec [ in the oven. The meat and potatoes are arranged in layers in a brown earthen jar, with a layer of whole potatoes at the top, a i-i the jar is put in the oven. 24.- -SHEEP'S KIDNEYS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. 1 Method. I... Sheep's kid- Put into a dish. neys 2... Cold water ... Pour over. Let them soak a few minutes. 3- Skin them, cut them open, but do not quite separate them. 4... Fat bacon ... 4 lb. ... Lard with very fine strips. 5-. Skewer them flat. 6... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 7... Butter i'ib. Melt in a frying pan. 8... Dip each kidney in melted butter 9... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Then into bread crumbs. 10... Place them on the gridiron. II... Put the gridiron on a quick fire and turn the kidneys once or twice. 25-SHEEFS KIDNEYS, broiled. Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... Kidneys Split them but do not divide them. and take off the skin and fat. 2 .. Run skewers through them to keep them open and flat. 3-- Broil over a clear fire on the cut side first.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 126 SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, broiled—[continued). Ingredients. Method. 4... Cayenne Sprinkle over while broiling. pepper and salt 5- When done turn them, and broil them on the other side. 6... Fried bread ... Serve the kidneys on slices of fried bread. Note.—A small quantity of clarified butter or oil brushed over the kidneys before broiling is an improvement. 26.-SHEEFS KIDNEYS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sheep's kid- neys Cold water . Butter Salt, pepper.., Slices of bread Salt Butter Flour Stock White wine ... I to each kidney I oz. I tea spoonful k pint ... do. Put in a pan. Pour over, and let them soak 5 minutes. Skin and cut each kidney in two, but do not separate them entirely. Melt in a frying pan over a quick fire. Toss the kidneys in it. Sprinkle over. Turn several times till they are quite done. Take out the kidneys and keep them warm. Fry in the pan. Sprinkle over. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over and stir with a wooden spoon. I Add gradually, still stirring. Put the kidneys on the fried bread, pour the sauce over and serve with or without lemon juice.MUTTON. 127 27.-SHEEP'S TROTTERS, a la poulette. Order Ingredients. Qucin titles. Method. I... Sheep's trot- ters 4 Put into a pan. 2... Boiling water Pour over and let them soak. Wipe them and singe off the hair^. 4... Put them into a saucepan. 5- Water Pour over till all is covered. 6... Onions 7... 8... 9... Salt, pepper... Parsley ) Chervil > In abunch !> Add. 1 10... Chives ) J II... Let it simmer 4 or 5 hours. 12... Strain through a cloth. i^... Cut up the feet, take out the bone. 14... Put the pieces to keep warm. 15... Fiesh butter... 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 16... Flour I dessert "1 spoonful 17... Salt 5>Add, stirring. J 18... Chopped parsley 19... Stock or warm water I pint ... Add, still stirring. 20... Small onions 3 or 4 ... 21... Chopped mushrooms 3 |Add. 22... Put the trotters in. 23... Let all simmer ^ hour. 24... Take out the bunch of herbs. 25... Pour the contents of the saucepan on a dish. 26... Beaten yolks 2 Add to the sauce, mixing gently with of eggs, with a wooden spoon. a few drops of lemon juice128 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28.-SHEEPS' TONGUES, en papillotes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... Sheep's tongues BoiHng water Butter Sweet herbs... Mushrooms ... Bacon Salt ] Pepper V Spice ) White paper Oil 29.-SH 4 oz. 1 dessert spoonful 2 spoons- ful 3 oz. To taste EEFS ] Put them to soak i hour in cold water. Put the tongues in and leave them until you can peel off the hard skin. Trim the roots, and drain them. Melt in a stewpan. Chop fine and add. Chop and add. Mince and add. Add. When nicely browned put in the tongues. When browned take them out and put aside to cool. Cut in pieces to wrap round the tongues. Dip the paper in oil. Spread some of the seasoning on each tongue. Wrap the tongues separately in paper. Broil them lightly and moisten with oil. Serve the tongues wrapped in paper. jIVER, ^ ^« mSnagere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5 6... Sheep's liver Salt Pepper Butter 2 OZ. Cut it in thin slices. 1 Mix and sprinkle over to season. Melt in a stewpan. Put in the slices of liver. When done, take them out and keep hot.129 MUTTON, SHEEP'S LIVER, a la menagere—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... 9... 10 .. II... 12... I^... 14... 15... 16... 17... Onions Flour Stock Yolk of eersr ... Vinegar Capers Fried sippets 30-E 6 I tea spoonful ^ pint ... I A few- drops I spoonful MINCiS Chop fine, and put into the stew- pan. Sprinkle over to thicken the sauce, and brown the onions. Add. Let the sauce boil 5 minutes. Put in the slices of liver, and heit them. Put the meat on a hot dish. Beat up and add to the sauce. Add. Add. Pour the sauce over the liver. Put round the dish. OF MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6,.. Note Cold roast mutton Salt Pepper Gravy —Mutton warmed 31.-3V in this way e* lUTTOl^ Cut in slices. 1 Sprinkle over. Put the meat in a dish that can be put in the oven. Pour over to cover the meat. Warm up in a bain-marie, or in the oven, and serve very hot. its as if it were fresh cut from the hot joint. r BOULETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... a... Remains of cold mutton Sausage-meat I lb. ... \ lb. ... 1 Mince and mix together.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 130 MUTTON BOVLETTES—iconHnued), Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Bread crumbs Milk Boiled potatoes Chopped herbs Salt, pepper., Beaten yolks of eggs Flour Bread crumbs Butter or fat 3 07. ... 2 table spoonsful i lb. ... Steep in milk. Add to the mince and mix all up together with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle over a pasteboard. Take a spoonful of mince and roll it into a ball on the board. Dip each ball in. Melt in a frying-pan. Throw in the boulettes. Fry brown and serve with sauce piquante, or tomato sauce. 32—SLICED MUTTON, a la bourgeoise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of ! lb. ... Cut into thin slices. cold mutton 2... Butter ilb. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3- Flour I table Sprinkle over, stirring with a woodt n Salt, pepper... Mutton gravy spoonful spoon. 4... 5- ^ pint ... j> Add gradually, still stirring. 6... 7... Eschalots Sweet herbs... 2 or 3 ... 1 Chop and add. 8... Stock i pint ... Add enough for gravy. 9... Let it simmer an instant uncovered. 10... Put in the meat to warm. JI... Vinegar A few Sliced gherkins drops 1 Add at the moment of serving.131 MUTTON, 33.--SLICED MUTTON. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Cold mutton \\ lb. ... 2... Butter \ lb. ... 3" Flour I table spoonful 4... Stock Enough for sauce 5... White wine ... I wine glass 6... Salt, pepper... To taste 7... 8... 9... Parsley A few sprigs ZO... Eschalots ... 2 or 3 XI... Tarragon A few sprigs 12... 13... Gherkins 3 or 4 Method. Cut into thin slices. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over and stir with a wooden spoon. Pour in, still stirring. Add. Let it simmer uncovered. Put in the slices of mutton. > Chop fine and sprinkle over. Let it simmer but not boil. Slice and put a little on each slice of meat when you serve. 34.-HASHED MUTTON. French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold mutton 2... Sausage meat i lb. to 1 <■ Hash and mix in a pan. I ib. of mutton 3- Boiled pota- toes I lb. ... Mash and add. 4... Salt and pepper Add. 5- Eggs I or 2 ... Beat up and add, stirring all up together. 6... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 7... 8... Chopped herbs Chopped 1 mushrooms ► Add, stirring all the time. 9... Flour I tea spoonful 10... Stock ^ pint ... Add gradually. K 2132 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. HASHED MUTTON, French receipt—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Put in the hash. 12... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over again. 13... Dress the hash in a pyramid on the dish. 14... Toasted bread Serve v^ith the meat. 35.-MUTTON CROQUETTES. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Remains of cold roast mutton Cold veal, beef, or pork Butter Pepperandsalt Stock Parsley Yolks of eggs Grated crumbs Whites of eggs Salt and pepper Olive oil Water Butter or lard Salt Fried parsley I lb. Half the quantity of either 2 oz. i pint .., I tea spoonful chopped I dessert spoonful I dessert spoonful iib. To garnish Clear from fat, skin, and gristle, and chop the meat very fine. Add if liked, and chop with the mutton. Melt in a stewpan. Add. Add. Add. Add. Put in the meat, and let it get quite hot without boiling. Spread it on a dish to cool. When cold, divide in equal portions. Form them into egg shaped balls. Roll the balls in the crumbs. Beat a little, but not to a froth. Add to the beaten whites. Add. Add, and mix well together. Dip the balls in this mixture, and roll them again in bread crumbs. Melt in a frying pan. Fry the balls a light brown on both sides. Sprinkle over. Pile the croquettes on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley.MUTTON. 133 36.—HARICOT MUTTON, economical Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Carrots Turnips Onion Dripping Scrag end of neck of mutton Water Brown sauce(s^^ No. 56, SectXIl. 37.—I 6 medium sized ... 3 medium sized ... iib. ::: 3 lbs. ... I pint ... I pint ... lASHE] 1 Cut up into pieces about \ inch j square. Melt in a stewpan, throw the veget- ables in and brown, stir to prevent burning. Separate each short bone and each cutlet^ trim oil* some of the fat. Put the meat into the stewpan. Pour over. Add. Simmer i to hours. Serve hot. D MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- 4... 1::: 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... Cold remains of mutton Pepper and salt Onion Flour Hot Water ... Browning Savoury relish Bacon Sippets of toast 2 lbs. ... A little ... I good sized one I table- spoonful I pmt ... I t e a- spoonful I dessert- spoonful 6 small rashers 12 Cut into slices about 2 inches square, or any shape most convenient Put into a stewpan. Add. Skin, slice up and add. Put into a basin. Add gradually, stir till quite smooth. Add. Add. Pour the contents of the basin over the mutton ; simmer gently ^ to J hour. Roll up, skewer, and fry. Turn the hash on to a hot dish. Arrange the rolls of bacon round the centre. Place carefully round the edge of the dish. Serve hot. Note.—This hash may be served with fried onions or fried potatoes, in place of the bacon or in addition if preferred. A little good stock in place of some of the water is a great improvement.^34 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SS.—MUTTON, Minced. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mutton, cold I lb. Mince very fine and put into a stew remains pan. 2... Onion I Skin, slice fine, and add. Pepper, salt ... A little ... Add. 4... Corn-flour ... I table- spoonful 5- Water or water fpint ... and stock , Mix as in above recipe, and add to u... Browning ... I tea- the mutton. spccnful 7... Catsup or other I good tea- relish spoonful j 8... Stew "I to f hour. 9... Turn out on to a dish, and keep hot 10... Eggs 3oi'4 ... Poach and place carefnllv --n the mince in the centre of the dish. 11... Sippets of toast 12 Arrange round the dish. Serve hot. Note. —A few rolls of fried bacon may be served with the mince in addition to the eggs. 39.—MUTTON PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Suet or drip- Line a pudding basin. ping paste Put on a dish. 2... Cold remains of underdone mutton I lb. ... 3- Chopped I good tea- 4... onions Chopped spoonful I tea- 1 Mix together and sprinkb over the j mutton. parsley spoonful 5... Pepper and salt A little ... Place a layer of the mutton in the pudding basin. 6... 7.- Potatoes I lb. ... Peel, wash, cut in slices, and place a layer on the mutton. S... Repeat 6, 7, until the basin is nearly full, making the last layer 01 meat. 9... Stock Nearly i pint Add.MUTTON. MUTTON PUDDING {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. lO... Suet or drip- Cover the top of the pudding. ping paste [2 hours. II... Tie up in a pudding cloth and boil 12... Serve very hot, with a napkin pinned round the basin. Note.—One or two carrots and turnips sliced, in addition to the potatoes, are an improvement. One or two kidneys also may be added. 40.—SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, broiled with Bacon. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sheeps' kid- neys Parsley Pepper and salt Rashers bacon Toast. I tea- spoonful A little ... 4 2 slices ... Split them, but do not quite divide them, remove the skin, and carefully cut out all the white stringy-looking substance, the nerves, which, if allowed to remain in, renders the kidney tough and unpalatable. Chop, and spread inside the kidneys. Sprinkle over. Fry. Put the bacon on a dish and keep hot. Broil the kidneys in the bacon fat. Place in the centre of the dish. Arrange the kidneys on the toast, and the bacon round. Serve hot. 41.-SHEEP'S HEARTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sheeps' hearts 3 Put into luke-warm water l hour to disgorge. 2... Veal stuffing... 3 table spoonsful Stuff the hearts after having wiped them well with a cloth. 3-- Skewer each firmly. 4... Greased paper. Cover the hearts. 5... Bake or roast J to f of an hour. 6... Baste well to prevent burning. 7... Serve with their own gravy. 8... Red currant Serve separately. jelly136 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION VI.—LAMB. 1.-F0RE-QUARTER OP ■LK'm-Q, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fore-quarter of lamb Cut off the scrag from the shoulder, saw off the shank-bone and the chine bone along the fillet of the leg; partially saw the rib-bones and break the shoulder-bone, then twist it round and fasten it with a skewer from beneath the breast. 2... Buttered paper ... Cover the lamb. 3- Roast It before a quick iire. A jomt of 10 lbs. will take 2J hours. 4... Flour Dredge over just before removing from the fire. 5... Salt do. 6... Butter 2 OZ. Baste the joint to make it froth up. 7... Cut paper ... Twist round the shank-bone. 3... Place the joint on a hot dish and pour a little gravy, made in the dripping-pan, over it. g... Mint sauce ... Serve in a sauce boat. 10... Cut lemon ... \ Should be ready for use, to be laid II... Cayenne V between the shoulder and ribs 12... Fresh butter... I OZ. ) when separated. 2.-QUARTER OP LAMB, boned. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Quarter of Bone. lamb 2... Forcemeat ... Stuff the lamb, roll it round, and tie with string. 3- Buttered paper Cover the lamb, and roast it 15 minuties to every lb. 4... Melted butter Serve separately.LAMB. 137 3—SADDLE OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Saddle of lamb Butter Mint sauce ... 2 OZ. Cover with buttered paper, and roast it at a quick fire. Baste the joint constantly at first, then with its own dripping. Serve separately. 4—TARGET OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Target Buttered paper Salt and flour Butter Mint sauce ... 2 OZ. 'This joint consists of the breast and neck joints, not separated. Take the flap bones from the neck, saw off the chine bone and chop the ribs. Cover the joint, and roast before a bright fire hours. Dredge over the joint just before taking it up. Baste the joint to make it froth up. Serve separately. 5—LOIN OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Loin of lamb Buttered paper Flour, pepper Butter Mint sauce ... OZ. ... This is a very small joint, only suit- able for I or 2 persons. Take care it does not burn in roasting. Cover the meat, but remove a few minutes before serving. Dredge over before taking up. Baste before serving. Serve separately. 6.—LEG OF LAMB, roasted. See preceding receipt. Time, if hours fo" 6 IbikMVRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 7.-LEG OF LAMB, hoiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of lamb... Select one weighing about 5 lbs. 2... Warm water Pour over the lamb, and let it soak more than 2 hours. 3- Wrap it in a cloth, and boil slowly hours. 4... Carrots I Serve with the lamb, either on the 5... Turnips 1 same dish or separately. 6... Parsley and Serve in a sauce-boat. butter 8.—BREAST OP LAMB, en fricassie. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of lamb Cut into small slices and put in a pan. 2... Boiling water Pour over and let the meat soak. 3- Dry in a cloth. 4... Butter i'ii). ::: Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 5... Flour I table Dredge over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon. 6... Stock \ pint ... Pour over gradually, still stirring. 7... Mushrooms ... Put the meat in the stewpan. 8... 3 or 4 ... g... 10... Small onions Salt 3 or 4 ... 1 Add. II... Bunch of herbs 12... Let all simmer i hour. 13... Take out the bunch of herbs before the stew is done. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up in the basin. 15... Lemon juice 2 or 3 Pour into the egg. drops 16... Put the meat on a warm dish. 17... Pour the egg gradually into the sauce, stirring all the time. 18... ... Pour the sauce over the meat and serve hot.i39 Lamb. 9—SHOULDER OF LAMB, with green peas. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of Take out the bone. lamb 2... Forcemeat ... 1 IK t ID. otun the lamb, and sew it up. 3- Bacon ... A few slices Place in a stewpan. 4... ... Put the meat on the bacon, and co\'er it with more slices. 5... Stock I quart ... Pour over the meat. 6... Add. 7... Celery \ head ... Add! 8... Herbs A bunch Add. 9... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. 10... Stew very gently for 2 hours. II... Green peas ... I pint .. Boil separately. 12... Put the peas in a dish, and place the meat on them. 13-.. Reduce and strain the gravy and pour over all before serving. lO.-SHOULDER OP LAMB, ^to^i. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of lamb Bone it, then sew it up, and give it a good shape. 2... Bacon i lb. ... Lard the upper part. 3- Put it in a stewpan. 4... Strong meat 2 table Add. jelly Onion spoonsful 5... I stuck with cloves Add. 6... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 7... 8... Put on the cover, and let it simmei I hour. Take off the cover, and put the stew- pan in the oven. g... Baste every 10 minutes to glaze the meat. I Serve with Bechamel sauce.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 11—LAMB CUTLETS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lamb cutlets Butter Salt Yolks of eggs Bread crumbs Slices of lemon 2 lbs. ... Flatten with a knife. \ lb. Melt in a frying-pan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over. Brown the cutlets in the pan. Take out the cutlets and let the butter cool in the pan. Beat up and pour gently into the butter, stirringwith a wooden spoon. Dip the cutlets in the pan. Take the cutlets out of the pan and dip into the crumbs. Place the cutlets on a gridiron. Turn, and serve when nicely browned. Serve with the cutlets. 12.-LAMB CHOPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Chops from the loin Pepper and salt Mashed potatoes A mould Let them be about f inch thick. Broil over a clear fire. When they are done, sprinkle ovcur. Put in a hot dish. Place the chops leaning against the potatoes, and serve hot. 13—LAMB CUTLETS, with French beans. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Cutlets Salt and pepper Butter French beans 2 OZ. ... Trim them neatly. Sprinkle over. Melt and fry the cutlets in it. Boil separately. Put the beans in the centre of the dish, and arrange the cutlets around it. Not?:.—Any other vegetables, such as peas or asparagus, can be served with the cutlets.LAMB. 14.-LAMB'S FRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 6... 7 8... Lamb's fry ... Yolk of egg ... Bread crumb mixed with chopped parsley Fried parsley I ID. ... I 4 oz. Boil 15 minutes. Drain dry. 1 Dip the fry into the egg, then into 1 the bread, &c. Sprinkle over. Fry till it is a nice colour (about 5 minutes). Serve on a folded napkin. Put round the fry. 15.- -RAGOUT OP LAMB. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... Cold roast lamb Salt Pepper Butter Hot stock Flour Pickled gherkins Vinegar Toasted sippets l\ lb. ... 40Z. \ pint ... I tea spoonful A few A few drops Cut in neat slices and trim. 1 Sprinkle over. Melt in a stewpan, and put in the slices of lamb at the same time. Add. Let the meat stew for \ hour, then take it out and keep it hot. Dredge into the sauce to thicken it. Cut in slices and add. Add. Put the lamb on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Put round the dish and serve.142 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 16.-BLANQUETTE OP LAMB. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of lamb 2... Butter 3... Flour 4... Veal broth . 5... Gravy from the braising pan 6... Small white onions 7... Mushrooms . Yolks of eggs Boiled milk .. Salt ) Pepper V Lemon juice) Parsley Toasteti sippets 2 o/. I dessert spoonlul \ pint ... 6 20 2 I teacup ful A few sprigs Take off the meat, cover it with buttered paper, and stew in a braising pan till cooked. Melt in a siewpan. Add and stir well, but do not let the butter brown. Add. Strain, and add. Cook separately in butter, then add them to the sauce. Boil for a few minutes, then take off the fire. Beat up. Add to the eggs, and pour into the sauce. Add to flavour the sauce. Chop fine and add. Make the sauce rather thick, and thin down with milk if necessary. Cut the meat in neat slices, and lay them in a hot dish. Pour the sauce over. Put round the dish. Note.- mutton, i .—Remains of cold -roast lan b can be dressed in th^ same ways as cold roast as croquettes, boulettes, &c.143 PORK. SECTION VII.—PORK. 1.-ROAST SUCKING PIG. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sucking pig... Sage and onion stuffing Flour i or I pint Good gravy.. Lemon juice.. Bread, apple, or tomato sauce Very little A few drops Well clean. Stuff (if veal forcemeat is preferred, stuff with that). Sew it up with strong thread. Truss it like a hare with its fore-legs skewered back, and its hind-legs forward. Dry it well. Dredge over it. Set it before a clear fire. Baste it with butter till there is enough of its own gravy. When it is done, cut off the head, split it in halves, divide the pig with a very sharp knife down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of the head at each end of the dish. Pour over. Squeeze over. Send some of the same gravy to table in a sauce-boat. May be eaten with it at will.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 144 2—LEG OP PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Leg of pork ... Brown gravy and apple sauce 6 or 7 lbs. Score the skin with a sharp knife all round the joint. Place it at some distance from the fire, turn constantly and baste well. Serve with it. 3- LEG OF VOB.K, boiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... Leg of pork ... Cold water ... Cold water ... Turnips and parsnips Rub well with salt and let it remain a week in pickle, turning and rubbing it once a day. Pour over and let it steep \ hour to improve the colour. Put it into a large pot. Pour over till it swims. Let it boil gradually and skim as the scum rises. It may be boiled in a cloth dredged over with flour, which makes it look well, but in that case the water cannot be used for soup. Garnish the dish and serve separately. 4-SPARERIB OF PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Sparerib Flour Chopped sage I table spoonful Score the skin as for leg of pork. Dredge over. Put it down to a bright fire and roast 20 minutes to the pound. Baste well. Strew over 10 minutes before it is done.PORK, 5.-L0IN OP PORK, roasf^rf. Cooked in the same way as a leg of pork. 6.—CHINE OP PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 Chine Apple sauce... Stuff with sage and onions. Roast 20 minutes to the lb. Serve separately. 7.-CHINE OP PORK, hoiUd, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Chine Water Let it lie in brine 9 or 10 days, turn- ing it every day. Put it into a saucepan. Pour over till it swims. Let it boil slowly, skimming well. 8.—ROAST PORK, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... Joint of pork Olive oil Salt, pepper... Bunch of herbs Sliced onions Salt Tomato sauce or sauce piquante 3 or 4 lbs. I quart ... 3 or 4 ... Trim, leaving only \ inch of fat. Put it into a pan. Pour over. Sprinkle over. 1 Add. Let it soak 24 hours. Take out the meat, score the fat for crackling. Put it to roast before a quick fire. A piece of 4 lbs. will take 2 hours, 2 lbs. will take i^ hours. Strain the oil the pork has been soak- ing in, and baste the meat with it. Sprinkle over \ hour before the meat is done. Serve separately in a sauce-boat. I.AIV/^A'S COOKERY BOOK. 146 9.-PIG'S HEAD, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pig's head .. Sage Pepper, salt.. Good gravy... Apple sauce. Boil tender enough to take the bones out. Chop fine. Mix with the sage. Rub the sage over the head. Roast before a good fire. Baste well. Make and pour over the head. Serve with it. lO.-PORK CHOPS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pork chops ... Cut off most of the fat, trim an( beat them flat. 2... Put them into a dish. 3- Olive oil Pour over. 4... Salt, pepper... 5... Bunch of parsley Add. 6... Bay leaf I 7... Cloves 1 8... Let them soak i or 2 days. 9... Warm a gridiron. 10... Broil the chops on both sides. II... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 12... Tomato sauce Serve separately at will. or sauce piquante ll.-PORK CUTLETS, with vegetables. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Small cutlets 6 free from bone Take off all skin and gristle and beat a little. Trim them into the shape of pears. Soak them in oil for 24 hours,147 PORK. PORK CUTLETS, with vegetables—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 5... Put in the cutlets. 6.., Gravy J pint ... Add. 7... 8... Brown the cutlets and glaze them. Arrange them round the edge of a hot dish. 9... Mashed potatoes, or celery, or other vegetable ► Put in the middle of the dish. 12.-HAM, hailed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ham or piece of ham Clean well, and let it soak 12 hours in water. 2... Dry in a cloth. 3- Tie a string round and put it in 3 large pot. 4... Bunch of herbs 5- Onion stuck |Add. with a clove 6... Pepper 7... 8... Water Pour over till all is covered. Let it boil gently 6 or 7 hours. 9... Prick with a fork to see if it is done. 10... When done, draw the pot off the fire, and let the ham cool in the water. II... Dry in a cloth. 12... Chopped Sprinkle over a large dish. parsley 13- Place the ham on it. 14... Brandy I table Pour over ihe ham. spoonful 15... Grated toast... Sprinkle over. ^ ^148 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 13.—PIG'S CHEEK, (i la bourgeoise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's cheek ... ... ... Sinffe over a clear fire. 2... Place in a pan. 3- Boiling water Pour over and well clean the inside. 4... ... ... Dry in a cloth. 5- ... Place in a pot or large saucepan. 6... Carrots 2 7... Onions 2 8... Cloves stuck 2 into onions 9... Salt, pepper 'Add. 10... Bunch of A few parsley, ^ sprigs of thyme, cher- each vil, bay-leaf II... Water Pour over t;!l all is covered. 12... Let it boil gently 4 or 5 hours. 14.-PIG'S CHEEK, English fashion. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's cheek ... Boil like a ham. 2... Glaze it well or grate toast over it. 15.- -PIG'S CHEEK, stuffed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's cheek ... Singe, steep in boiling water and dry in a cloth. 2... Put it in a pot or large saucepan. 3- Onions stuck 2 with cloves 4... Bunch of A few thyme, pars- sprigs ► Add. ley, bay-leaf, of each chervil, and chivesPORK, U9 PIG'S CHEEK, stuffed—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Remains of roast fowl or veal Salt pork Bread crumbs Cream Salt, pepper I i lb. of each soaked in cream i pint Pour over till all is covered. Let it boil 2 hours. i Mince. Add to the mince. Sprinkle over. Take out the cheek, drain and stuff with the preceding ingred enls. Tie up with string, put it in the oven and bake for 2 hours. 16.—PIG'S FEET preparation, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's feet 4 Singe over a clear fire. 2... Put them into a pan. 3-- Eoiling water Pour over. 4... Clean them well, then wipe them in a cloth, and tie them up with string. 5- Put them into a stewpan. 6... Slices of 3 or 4 ... bacon 7... Carrots 2 8... Onions 2 9... Cloves stuck 2 in onions > Add. 10... Bunch of A few parsley, sprigs thyme, bay- of each leaf, chervil, and chivesMVI?A'S COOKERY BOOK, 150 PIG'S FEET, preparation^ French receipt—[continued). Order., I Ingredients. Quantities. Method. White wine Stock with the fat taken off Equal quantities I Pour over till all is covered. Let them simmer 12 hours. Take out the feet and drain them. The next day put them to simmer 12 hours more. The feet are then ready for cooking with a sauce. 17.—PIG'S FEET, a la sainte-Menehoitld. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pig's feet Bread crumbs Salt, pepper.., Butter Prepare them according to the pre- ceding receipt, or buy them ready prepared from the pork butcher. 3 oz. ... Put in a dish. Sprinkle over. 2 oz. ... Melt in a fryingpan over a slow fire. Dip the feet in the fryingpan, then into the bread crumbs. Warm a gri iiron, place the feet on it, and broil them a nice brown. Turn once and serve without sauce. 18.-PIG^S KIDNEYS. These are cooked in the same way as sheeps' kidneys. 19.~HOCHEPOT OF PORK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- Pork, fresh or pickled Pig's foot Pig's ear I lb. I 1 Cut in pieces, and put in a saucepan. Cut \:\ Invo and add. Add. 1PORIC. HOCHEPOT OF VORK^-icontinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Cold water ... ..... - —. Enough to cover the whole. 5- Herbs A bunch Add. 6... Onions 2 stuck with cloves Add. 7 Peppercorns... A few ... Add. 8... Let it boil for i^ hours. 9... Carrots 4 A AA Ada. 10... Turnips 2 Add. II... Celery I stick ... Add. 12... Cabbage I if liked Blanch, cut in four, and add. 13... Potatoes A dozen Add. 14... Salt Ifrequired Add. 15... Cover the saucepan, and let it boil till the potatoes are done, but not broken. 16... Serve all together in a deep dish. Note.—-This is an economical dish for a large family. 20.-PORK CUTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast pork n lb. ... Cut in nice slices and trim off the fat. 2... Bread crumbs 4 oz. Put in a dish. 3- Salt, cayenne pepper Add to the bread crumbs. 4... Savoury herbs Chopped fine 2 or 3 chopped i Add to the crumbs if liked. 5' • Eschalots ) 6... Buttter 2 oz. Melt on a slow fire. 7... Dip the cutlets in the butter, then m the seasoned crumbs. 8... Broil them over a brisk fs^^j. 9... Tomato sauce, or curris bauce Serve with the cutlets.1$2 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 21.-HASHED PORK. ^ )rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. . ji lb Cut in thin slices* pork 2... Butter ... 1 oz. ... Melt on the fire* x" iour •.. I tea spoonful .}... Onions 2 sliced Fry in the butter. and stuck with cloves 5 ••• Pepper and salt To taste Add. 6... Stock \ pint ... Add. 7... Put in the meat and stew gently for \ hour. S... Vinegar A few Add. drops 9... Toasted bread Serve in sippets with the meat to garnish the dish. 22.-PORK CHEESE. Oraer. Ingiedients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast 2 lbs. ... Cut in very small pieces. pork 2... Fat Ub. ... Chop and mix with the lean. 3- Saltandpepper To taste Add. 4... Parsley i A few j sprigs 6... Thyme Sage 1 Chop very fine, and add. 7... Grated nutmeg Add to flavour. 8... ... Mix all well together, and put in a mould. g... Good gravy ... Add till the mould is full. I J... Bake in a gentle oven for hour. i I... Leave in the mould till cold. NoTE.—Minced mushrooms or truffles will improve the flavour.PORK. 23.-BRAWN. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's head ... Choose a large head with the ears 1 and tongue, wash and scrape \x, and put it in strong brine with a little salt-petre in it for a da}' or two. 2... Pig's feet 4 Add to the head. 3- Take the meat out of the pickle, and wash it well in hot water. 4... Boiling water In a large saucepan, enough to cover the meat. 6... Onions Bunch of savoury herbs 2 Stuck with cloves Add. Add. 7... Pepper, salt... Sprinkle on the meat. 8... Boil the head and feet until tender. 9... Let it cool a little, then take out all the bones, and cut the meat in small pieces. 10... Salt, pepper ... Sprmkle over. II... Spice 2 t3a spoonsful Different kinds pounded and sprinkled over the meat. 12... Put the meat in a mould. 13... Stock T tea Add a little of the stock to fill the cupful mould. 14... Bay-leaves ... 2 or 3 ... Lay on the meat. 15... Put a small plate and weight on the meat, and bake in the oven for J hour. 16.. ••• ••. 1 ! Let it stand till cold, pressed down with weights or a presser the whole time. Remove the bay-leaves b>;iOxe serving.MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 24.-SAUSAGE MEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lean pork ... 3 lbs. ... Take off all the skin, and chop fine. 2... Fat 2 lbs. ... Chop and mix with the lean. 3- Salt oz. ... Sprinkle over by degrees. 4... Pepper I oz. do. 5- Nutmeg I grated Add if liked. 6... Minced sage 3 table Mince very fine and add. spoonsful 7... 8... Mix all well together while chopping, turning the meat frequently on the board. Form into cakes, floured and baked, or fried, or put into skins in the usual way. 25.-BACON FOR LARDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon Cut it in thin narrow strips. 2... Hold the meat to be larded with the left hand. 3- Push in the larding pin leaving the ends out on each side. 4... Put a piece of bacon in the outside 0['enmg of the pin. Pull the larding pin towards you leaving some bacon out on each side. 5... 6. . Continue larding the meat in a straight line at equal distances, but in the next row alternate the holes, putting them between those of the previous row. 1 U26-TO MELT LARD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pig's fat Water Choose it white and thick. Take off the skin, cut it in small pieces, and put it in an earthen- ware jar. Boil in a large saucepan, only half filled. When boiling, put in the jar con- taining the fat, and boil fast. Pour the melted fat gently into stone jars to keep. Put any remains of fat on the fire again, simmer gently, and pour off. Do not mix this with the lard first prepared, as it is less good, and will not keep so long. 27.-HAM, hoiled. Order. | Ingredients. Quantities. I.*.I Ham 14 lbs. ... 2..J ... 3...i ... 4... Cold water 5-1 - 6... Herbs A bunch 7... Carrots 3 or 4 - ... 8..J' ... 9... Raspings ' 1 Method. Soak in water 12 hours, changing the water occasionally. Scrape, trim, and clean the ham* Pat it in a large kettle. Pour over till covered. Bring it slowly to the boil and let it simmer gently about 4 hours, or until tender; skim well. Put in after the scum has been cleared off. When done strip off the skin and let the lia:ii drain. Stre\\ c . er the ham.156 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK SECTION VIII.—POULTRY. 1.-TO TRUSS A FOWL. 1. Pick and singe it. 2. Cut off the neck close to the head. 3. Take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts of the breast end. 4. Cut off the vent. 5. Drav^ the fowl clean. 6. Wash out and wipe the inside quite dry. 7. Beat the breastbone flat with a rolling-pin. 8. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, and bring the middle of the leg close to it. 9. Put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and do the same on the other side. 10. Put another skewer in the small of the leg and through the sides- man, and do the same on the other side. 11. Put another through the skin of the feet, and cut the nails off. 12. Clean out and wash the gizzard. 13. Remove the gall-bag from the liver, and put both liver and gizzard in the pinions. 2.-RECEIPT FOR MAKING AN OLD FOWL TENDER. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cold water Wood cinders 2 quarts! | Mix in a large pan. Put the fowl in with its feathers on, and let it soak 24 hours. Take it out and wash it* Pick it. Dress it. Let it hang 24 hours. Boil it 15 minutes. The fowl is then ready for roasting or stewing. If you roast it, lard it first and baste it with butter when it is half done.157 POULTRY, 3.-R0AST CHICKEN OR FOWL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken ... Feather, singe, and dress it. 2... Butter I oz. Put into the body. 3... Sew it up with thread. 4... (French cooks put a chopped onion in the fowl along with the butter.) Truss it. 6... Butter I oz. Place in the dripping pan, and baste the chicken with it. 7... 8... Salt A chicken will take \ hour to roast, a fowl I hour. Dredge over when nearly done. 9... Prick with a fork to see if it is done. 10... Cress, sea- soned with salt, pepper and vinegar Put round the dish if liked. II... Sliced lemon Put round the dish. 12... Bread sauce... Serve separately. 4.-P0WL WITH RICE, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fowl Dress and boil \ hour. 2... Take it out of the pot and drain it. 3- Lard or butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Fat bacon ... \ lb. ... Cut in slices and put in the stewpan till brown. 5... Take out the bacon and put in the fowl. 6... Turn it till it is well browned all over. 7... Salt, pepper ... Sprinkle over. 8... Rice Put in another saucepan with enough stock to cover it, adding stock from time to time, and stirring with a wooden spoon. 9,.. When the rice is tender, put in the fowl and the fried bacon on the top of it.158 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FOWL WITH VIZ^-—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 10... Stock I pint ... Cover the whole with it. 11... Bunch of herbs Add. 12... Let all simmer uncovered till the fowl is done. 13... Put the stew in a hot oven the last \ hour. Serve the fo\vl on the rice. 5.~B0ILED FOWL OR CHICKEN. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... Fowl or chicken Hot water ... Parsley and butter Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon Truss for boiling. Fold in a white floured cloth and p-Jt into a stewpan. Pour over till covered. Let it come gradually to the boil, and skim very carefully as the scuip. rises. Let it simmer very slowly. Boil a fowl I hour and a chicker, ^ hour. When done, place on a hot disli. and take out the skewers. Pour over and serve separately. Serve separately. 6.-STEWSD FOWL, daube. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Old fowl Bacon 2 thin slices Singe, dress, and cut off the ends of the wings and feet. Put at the bottom of a stewpan.POULTRY, 159 STEWED FOWL, en daube—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3... ... Put the fowl on the top of the bacon. 4... Boiled calf s I Cut into four and add. foot 5- Bunch of herbs ... 6... Onions 2 I Add. 7... Bay leaf I 8... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 9... Carrots If liked... Slice and add. 10... Large slice 01 ... Cover over the whole. bacon II... Brandy- i wine glass 12... White wine... ^ wine >■ Add to cover all. glass 13-.. Stock ^pint ... 14... ... ... Put the lid on the stewpan and close it hermetically. 15... ... Ler it simmer 5 hours. 16... Prick the fowl with a fork to see if it is done. 17... Take out the fowl carefully, and place it in a deep dish. 18... Place the calfs feet and vegetables round it. ig... Strain the remainder of the sauce. 20... Put it on the fire again for 2 minutes. 21... Pour over the fowl and serve. 7.—CHICKENS, A la diahle. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ^ I... Small, plump chickens 2 Singe and dress. 2... Gut them down the back. 3- Beat them flat. 4... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5- Olive oil A few drops do. 6... Warm a gridiron, rub some oil on it, put the chickens to broil, and when they are well browned on both sides, serve with peppe»" sauce.i6o MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 8—CHICKEN, ci' la bourgeoise. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Chicken Fresh butter Salt, pepper.. Carrots Onions Salt, pepper Stock White wine I 2 OZ. h pint I wine glass Singe, dress, and truss. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Fry the chicken a nice brown. Sprinkle over. Take out the fowl and keep it warm. Cut into thin slices and throw them into the butter that remains in the stewpan. Add whole. Let them slightly brown. Put the fowl in again. Sprinkle over all. Let all stew i hour. Add. Turn the chicken. Let it simmer another hour. Serve with the vegetables round the fowl. Strain the sauce and pour over. 9.-FRICASSEED FOWL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fowl or Dress and cut up into joints. chickens 2... Put it with the giblets into a pan. 3- Cold water, with white wine, vinegar [i pint ... y Pour over till all is covered. or lemon juice J 4... Let all soak 2 hours. 5... Take out the meat, and wipe it in a cloth. 6... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 7... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 8... Flour I table Add. spoonfuli6i POULTRY, FRICASSEED V0-^1.—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stock or water the fowl was soaked in Bunch of herbs Onions, small Cock's-comb Mushrooms If liked ... Cut in two Beaten yolks of eggs Lemon juice... A few drops Put the fowl into the butter, and stir with a wooden spoon till the butter melts, but do not let the fowl brown. Pour over till the fowl is covered. Add. Let all simmer gently 40 minutes. Put in boiling water to whiten them. I Add to the stew with the onions. Cover the stewpan with buttered paper. Let all stew another 20 minutes, making i hour in all. Prick the pieces of fowl with a fork to see if they are done. Dress the pieces of fowl and giblets in the centre of the dish, and the onions and mushrooms round it. Add to the sauce v^^hen it has been strained and does not boil. Stir in v/ell, pour over the fowl, and serve. 10-CHICKEN, an hJanc. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Chicken Water Butter Sweet herbs Onion Salt pint .. 2 oz. A bunch I cut in two A pinch Pick, singe, and truss as for boiling. Put in an enamelled saucepan. Add. Add. Add. Add. When it boils put in the chicken, Let it boil quickly, to reduce the liquor one-half when the chicken is done.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. CHICKEN, au blanc—[contimied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... ... Take out the chicken and keep it hot. 10... Butter Flour Strain the liquor through a sieve. II... 12... I oz. I tea / Work together into a ball and put spoonful t" in a stewpan. 13... ... Add part of the liquor and boil 5 minutes. 14... Yolk of egg ... I or 2 ... Beat up. ] 15... Milk I or 2 dessert > Add to the egg and beat in. spoonsful 16... When the sauce has ceased boiling add the beaten egg to it. 17... Put it back on the fire and if it is too thick add more broth. 18... Lemon juice I leftion Add. ig... Pepper A little ... Add. 30... Put the chicken in breast downwards, and let it simmer a few minutes without boiling. 21... Put the chicken on a hot dish breast upwards. 22... Butter J oz. .., Add to the sauce, stir in, and pour the sauce over the chicken. 11.—CHICKEN, a la Marengo, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken I Divide in small joints. 2... Olive oil I wine Heat in a stewpan. glassful 3-- Eschalots ^ oz. Add whole. 4... Garlic If liked ... Crush I clove and add. 5- Pepper, salt ... Add.^ 6... Put in the larger joints of chicken first, then the smaller ones. 7... Turn with a fork, till all are browned, this will take about \ hour. 8... Sherry I wine Put in a small saucepan. glassful163 POULTRY. CHICKEN, a la Marengo—[continued). OrJw. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... Stock J pint ... Add. 10... Eschalots ... 2 II... Parsley A few- I C^\\f\x\ T\wf^ ijtin oAA frt ♦•Vk* con/^A 111 i ^llUp IXIIC, ctliU. dUU LU LilC oaULC 111 12... Chives sprigs A few ... j the small saucepan. 13... Mushrooms ... A dozen 14... Pepper, salt... Add. 15... Gravy from 2 table Take from the stewpan, and add to chicken spoonsful the sauce. 16... Boil gently for lo minutes. 17... Put the joints of chicken on a dish. 18... Pour the sauce over. 19... Fried sippets Put round the dish to garnish. 12.-CHI0KEN, broiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Young chicken Olive oil Lemon juice... Parsley Pepper, salt... Bread crumbs ipint ... I lemon... A little chopped 3 oz. Cut it down the back, and flatten it. Mix together, and put the chicken in to steep an hour or two before cooking it. Roll the chicken in, and cover well. Broil it on both sides. Serve with hot pepper sauce. 13.-CHICKEN, sanfe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken I Cut in joints as for a fricassee 2... Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Put in the joints without touching. 4... Pepper, salt... Sprinkle over. Turn the joints frequently until done; they will take about 25 minutes. M 2MVILA'S COOKERY BOOK, CHICKEN, saute—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... ... ... ... Put, them on a dish and keep hot. Flour I oz. Add to the sauce in the stewpan. Stock 1 pint ... Add and stir well. Pepper, salt... Add. 10.., Chopped I tea Add, parsley spoonful Jl.., Reduce the sauce and pour it over the chicken and serve. Note.—Small mushrooms fried in butter; or sliced truffles, and a glass of white wine may be added to the sauce, 14-CHICKEN, filleied. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method, Chicken Butter Buttered paper Bones, skin, &c., of chickens Salt, white pepper Flour and butter Butter Lemon juice Truffles Tonofue iib. I sheet \ oz. I lemon 8 slices . 8 slices . Cut off the flesh in fillets, and trim them in pear shape. Melt in a stewpan. Put in the fillets side by side. Cover over the fillets. Simmer on a gentle fire. Put in a saucepan, with a little water, to make a gravy. Add. Knead together, and add when the gravy has been strained. Reduce the sauce. I Add just before serving. When the fillets are done, but not browned, put them in the sauce. Heat in butter. Heat with the truffles. Serve the fillets of chicken, arranged round a dish, with alternate slices of tongue and truffles. Add the butter from the truffles to the sauce, and pour it into the centre of the dish.16S POULTRY. io.- a la Montnwvcncy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. IT owl •»• I large Truss as for boiling. one 2... ijacon e.« ^ ID, Lard the breast and upper part. 4... Bacon i lb 5... Jjeet suet 1 IK ^ lb. 6... i rulTlco . •. 11 iiKeu ... ► Chop and mix to make a forcemeat. 7... Mushrooms ... 3 or 4 ... 8... Salt and pepper g... Butter I oz. 10... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add to moisten the force- meat. II... ... ... Fill the fowl with the forcemeat, and sew up the opening. 12... 1 riiTiiTiings 01 ... Put in a stewpan. meat 13... Bacon A tew Add. slices 14... Carrots ... 2 or 3 ... 1 15... Onions ... 2 stuck with > Add to flavour the sauce. cloves 16... Sweet herbs... A bunch 17... ... Put the fowl on the top. iS... 0"* 1 Stock ... Add as required. 19... ••* ... Let the fowl simmer gently for 2 hours, and baste with the sauce. 20... ... Put it on a hot dish. 21... Skim and strain the sauce into another stewpan. 22... Reduce it until it is a glaze. 23... Put in the fowl with the larded side downwards. 24... When nicely browned put on a hot dish. 25... Stock A little ... Add to the sauce, scrape the glaze from the bottom of the pan, stir well and pour over the fowl.AdVJ^A'S COOKERY BOOK. 16.—FOWL, curried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13. Fowl Butter Onions Flour Curry powder Salt Water Stock Apples or tomatoes Boiled rice ... 17.-T0 I 2 oz. 2 sliced ... I tea spoonful I table spoonful 1 pint ... do. ... I or 2 of either WARM Cut in small joints. Melt in a stew-pan. Add. Fry the fowl and onions in the buller, and take out the fowl when done. Add to the butter in the stew-pan. Add and mix well for i or 2 minutes. Add. Add boiling. Do. Put in the pieces of fowl and let all simmer very gently. ( The apples must be pared and sliced, ■s the tomatoes skmned and freed ( from seeds, before adding. Serve the fowl on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Serve round the dish or separately. UP COLD FOWL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... 2c.. 3- 4..» u.*» 7... 8... g... 10... Remains of cold roast fowl Butter Flour Stock M ushroom buttons Salt, pepper Chopped eschalot Parsley White wine ... 2 oz. I pinch ... ^pint ... 5 or 6 I I bunch I wine glass Cut into slices. Put in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put the fowl on the butter. > Add at once*POULTRY. i67 TO WARM UP COLD FOWL—(contitnied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... 13... 14... Beaten yolk of egg Lemon juice I A few drops Let all simmer uncovered on a good fire. Take out the fowl and the parsley. Add to the sauce. Stir in well, pour over, and serve. 18.—COLD FOWL, en blanqttette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... Remains of cold fowl Butter Flour Salt, pepper... Parsley Warm water Yolk of egg ... Salt ^ ... Lemon juice or vinegar 2 OZ. I pinch ... I bunch... I A few drops Cut into slices. Leave out the fat and the skin. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Do. Put in the fowl. Add. Pour over till all is covered. Let it simmer, and towards the end take out the parsley. 1 Beat up in a bowl. Put the fowl on a dish. Pour the egg into the sauce, stirring gently with a wooden spoon. Pour over the fowl and serve. 19-FOWL CROQUETTES. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. T... 2... 3- Butter Parsley Mushrooms ... 2 OZ. A few sprigs , 2 or 3 ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 1 Chop fine and throw into the butter.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, FOWL CROQUETTES—(cow^Z/m^^^f). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Flour A pinch... Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 6... Let them simmer a moment. 7... Stock I teacup- ful ] ( Pour over all and let the sauce 8... Cream I teacup- ful j simmer uncovered to thicken. ] g... Remains of cold roast fowl Cut up into dice and throw into the sauce. 10... Take the stewpan off the fire and let the contents get cold. 11... Bread crumbs 4 oz. Prepare. 12... 13... Eggs Salt 2 yolks ... 1 Beat up in a basin. 14... Take a spoonful of the contents of the stewpan and roll into a ball. 15... Dip it into the egg-, then into the bread crumbs. 16... Fry in butter or lard a nice brown. 17... Continue the operation till all the contents of the stewpan are used up. 18... Fried parsley Put round the dish and serve hot. 20.-TO TRUSS A TURKEY. 1. Pick and singe carefully. 2. Break the leg-bones close to the feet, 3. Hang it on a hook and draw out the strings from the thigh, 4. Cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the crop-skin long enough to turn over the back. 5. Remove the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and the gut at the throat end. 6. Cut off the vent, remove the gut, take a crooked wire and pull out the gizzard, and the liver will easily follow. 7. Take care not to break the gall-bladder, if you do, it will entirely spoil the flavour of the bird by giving it a bitter taste which no washing will remove. 8. Do not break the gut joining the gizzard either, lest the inside should become gritty.POULTRY. 169 TO TRUSS A TURKEY--[coiitinued). 9. Wipe the inside quite clean with a wet cloth. 10. Cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back. I r. Draw the legs close to the crop. 12. Put a cloth on the breast and beat the breast-bone with a rolling pin till it lies flat. 13. Scald the feet, peel off the outer skin and cut away the claws, leave the legs on. 21.-TURKEY, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities, Method, Turkey Veal stuffing or sausage meat String Buttered paper Butter ilb. Hang from 5 to 14 days and truss according to preceding receipt. Fill the inside. Either sew the skin of the neck over the back with a trussing needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, pass- ing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Put a skewer on the other side through the small part of the leg, close on the outside of the sides- man, and push it through. Clean the liver and gizzard and tuck them between the pinions, turn the point of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers and tie it securely at the back to keep the bird well trussed. Cover the breast. Place the bird on the spit or roast- ing-jack, and set it at some distance from a very bright fire. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put in the dripping pan and baste the bird with it. Just before the turkey is done remove the paper.I JO MYRAS COOKERY BOOIC. TURKEY, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... Flour ..• Dredge over. 14... Butter Baste so as to brown and froth the bird. 15... Good brown Pour over the bird on the dish. 16... gravy Forcemeat Serve in the dish* balls 17... Bread sauce Serve separately: 22-TURKEY, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Hen turkey Skewer Liver and gizzard Pack thread... Clean cloth ... Hof water .. Oyster sauce, celery sauce, or parsley and butter Hang 4 days. Cut the first joints of the legs off, raise the skin of the legs with the finger, and put them under the bird's apron. Put into the joint of the wing and the midddle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. Wash and put into the pinions. Turn the small end of the pinion on the back. Tie over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Wrap over the bird and put it in the pot. Pour over till the bird swims. Bring it gradually to the boil, and skim carefully. Let it simmer gently or 2 hours, longer if it is very large. Pour over the bird and serve separately in a sauce-boat. Serve with boiled tongue or ham.POULTRY. 171 23—TURKEY GIBLETS, la bouygeoise. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Giblets Boiling water Butter Flour Water or stock Salt, pepper... Bunch of parsley, thyme, &c. Mushrooms or catchup Yolks of eggs oz. pint Put into a dish. Pour over and wash well. Melt in a stewpan over a slow firci Put in the giblets to brown. Dredge over when browned. Pour over gradually, stirring. Sprinkle over. Add. Let all gently simmer uncovered till the giblets are done. Take out the herbs. Put the giblets in a deep dish and keep them warm. Beat up, add to the sauce when it has done boiling, and serve. 24.-STEWED TURKEY, en datihe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Old turkey Fat bacon Salt, pepper Clove Garlic Calf's feet , Carrots Onions Bunch of herbs Stock or water White wine or brandy Jib. I clove I or 2 2 At will i| pint I wine glass Dress, cut off the neck, tips of the wings and feet. Cut into slices and cover the bottom of the stewpan. Put the turkey on the bacon. > Add to the turkey. Pour over all.172 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. STEWED TURKEY, en daube—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... Buttered paper Cover the stewpan hermetically, and put the cover on too. 14... Let all simmer 6 hours, taking care to turn the turkey when half cooked, serve with the vegetables. 15... Strain the sauce and pour over. Note.—This is delicious cold, when the gravy forms a jelly. 25—TO WARM UP TURKEY, a la bonne femmc. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Cut into slices and put in a stewpan. roast turkey 2... Parsley and A few Chop and sprinkle over the meat. chives sprigs 3- Stock 2 table spoons 1 Pour over. 4... Vinegar I do. Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 6... Let all simmer. 7... Serve in a deep dish. 26.- THE SAME, en capilotade. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5- 6... 7... Remains of roast turkey Eschalots Mushrooms . Parsley Butter Flour Salt, pepper.. Cut into sHces. 2 or 3 ... 3 or 4 ... A few sprigs 2 oz. I pinch... I Chop fine and mix together. Melt in a stewpan over a slow firCr |- Sprinkle over.173 POULTRY. THE SAME, en capilotade—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Stock i pint ... i pint ... ] 9... White wine (Add gradually, stirring, and let all or vinegar I wine 1 simmer uncovered a moment. glass Put the slices of turkey into this sauce. 10.., II.,. Cover the stewpan. 12... Let all simmer J hour. 13... Put the slices of turkey on a dish. 14.,. Pour the sauce-over and serve hot. 27.—THE SAME, ^ la chipolata. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. • I... Thin slices of 3 or 4 ... Put at the bottom of a stewpan. fat bacon 2... Remains of ijlb. ... Cut into slices and place on the roast turkey bacon. 3- Small onions 30x4 ... Blanch in boiling water and add. 4... More fat bacon Cut into small slices and add. 5-- Stock ipint ... 6... Lemon 2 slices ... |Add. 7... Bunch of herbs 8... Buttered paper Cover the stewpan hermetically. g... Place on a slow fire and let it all simmer ^ hour. 10... Take out the turkey. TI... Strain the sauce on to the dish and serve. 28- SALMIS OF TURKEY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of • Cut into slices. roast turkey 2... Fat bacon ... \ lb. ... Cut into thin slices and place at the bottom of a stev/pan.174 MVT^A'S COOKE7^ V BOOK. SALMIS OF TURKEY—(fon^/ww^rf). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Mushrooms . Truffles Salt, pepper.. Bunch of parsley, chervil, and chives Claret and vi'ater j> Chop and throw into the stewpan. Put the slices of turkey on the top of all. Season well. Add. Pour over till all is covered. Put the stewpan on a moderate fire, and let it stew well. Take the fat off the sauce and serve. 29.-TO TRUSS A GOOSE. 1. Pick it clean. 2. Cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion off at the first joint. 3. Cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the skin of the neck long enough to turn over the back. 4. Pull out the throat and tie a knot at the end. 5. Loosen the liver, &c., at the breast end with the middle finger, and cut it open between the vent and the rump. 6. Draw out all the entrails except the soal, and wipe out the inside with a clean cloth. 7. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin. 8. Put a skewer into the wing and draw the legs up close. g. Put a skewer through the middle of the legs and through the body. 10. Do the same on the other side. 11. Put another skewer in the small of the leg, tuck it close down to the sidesman and run it through. 12. Do the same on the other side. 13. Cut off the end of the vent and make a hole large enough for the passage of the rump, as by that means you will better secure the seasoning in its place.POULTRY, 175 30.—GOOSE, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Goose Sage and onion stuff- ing Good brown gravy Apple sauce Prepare as in preceding receipt. Fill the goose, and fasten it in securely at both ends by passing the rump through a slit made in the skin, and tying the skin of the neck into the back. Roast before a nice brisk fire for i\ hours—longer if the bird is large. Baste frequently with its own gravy. Take out the skewers. Pour over on a hot dish. Serve separately. 31.—POTTED GOOSE^ French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Wings and legs of roast goose Cut each into 2 so as to make 8 pieces. 2... Put them into an earthen jar. 3- Lard I'ib. Melt and boil 10 minutes. 4... Bunch of thyme and Add to the lard to give it a flavour, and season with salt and pepper to bay-leaf taste. 5... Pour the lard over the goose and let it get cold. 6... Cover it well. 7... This meat when warmed up is as good as fresh. 32.-TO TRUSS A DUCK. See the receipt for trussing geese, and follow it. The only difference is that the feet must be left on, and turned close to the legs.176 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 33- DUCK, roasted. Order. ingredients. Ouantities t^uan 1 les. Method. I... Duck Hang for one day, and longer if the weather permits. 2... Sage and Fill the inside. onion stuffing 3-- Put it down to a clear bright fire, and baste constantly till done. 4... Flour Just before taking from the fire dredge the bird. 5- Butter 2 OZ. Baste with butter, to make it froth and brown. Good gravy ... Pour round, not over. 34.-DUCK WITH TURNIPS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. 0 t'ti ^;uan 1 les. Method. I... Duck Dress and truss. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a large stewpan. 3-- Put the duck in the butter to brown. 4... Take it out and keep it warm. 5-- Flour I pinch ... Dredge over the butter that remains in the stewpan on the fire. 6... Stir it with a wooden spoon till the sauce is rather thick. 7... Small onions 3 or 4 ... 8... Stock or water I pint ... 9... White wine I wine glass at > Add. will 10... Salt, pepper... II... Bay-leaf 12... Fat bacon ... I slice ... Cut into dice and add. 13... Garlic 0^ V^lU V c ... 14... Parsley and V Chop fine and add. chives 15... Put in the duck. 16... Cover the stewpan. 17... Let it all simmer \ hour. iS... Take out the duck, in order to strain 1 and take the fat off the sauce.177 POULTRY. DUCK WITH TURNIPS, French receipt—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ig... 20... 21... 22... 23... 24... 2^... 26... 27... Turnips Butter Powdered sugar 4 or 5 ... 2 OZ, I pinch ... Cut into half-quarters. Melt in another stewpan. Put the pieces of turnip in the pan to brown. When they are browned, pour the sauce from the duck gradually over them. Sprinkle over if liked. Let all simmer a moment. Put the duck on the turnips, and let all stew \ hour. Put the duck on a hot dish, and place the turnips and onions round it. Pour the sauce over and serve* 35. -DUCK steived with peas. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... s- 6... 7... 0... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14.,. Duck Butter Salt, pepper... Flour Stock Bacon ... Green peas ... Salt, pepper... Parsley ) Chives ) \ lb. To taste I pinch ... I pint ... Thin slices i^ pint ... To taste Tied in a bunch i Dress and truss* Melt in a large stewpan on a slow fire and put in the duck to brown. Sprinkle over. Brown the duck on both sides and put it on a dish to keep hot. Add to the butter in the pan. Add gradually stirring all the time. When the sauce is well mixed and thickened put in the duck. Lay on the duck if liked. 1 Add to the duck. Simmer gently on a slow fire and skim from time to time. Remove the bunch of herbs, pour the peas and sauce into a dish, placa the duck on them and serve.MYJiA'S COOKERY BOOK. 178 36.-SALMIS OF DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12. 13- Wild or tame duck Butter Flour Stock Claret Eschalots Salt, pepper Toasted bread Lemon juice 2 oz. I pinch . ipint . I wine glass 2 I dozen sippets A few drops Partly roast and then take from the fire and cut in pieces. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Sprinkle in without browning. Add stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Add to flavour Simmer gently for J hour* Take out the eschalots* Put the pieces of duck in the gravy and heat them, but do not let them boil. Place them round the dish* Put the meat in the dish. Add to the sauce, pour it over the meat and serve. Note.—Remains of eold roast goose can be used for this dish* 37.-TO TRUSS PIGEONS. Wash thoroughly, as a pigeon requires a great deal of cleaning. Wipe very dry before putting to the fir@» Draw as soon as killed. Cut off the head and neck. Truss the wings over the backa Cut off the toes at the first joint* 38.-PIGEONS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... 2... 3 4 5- 6.. Pigeons Pepper, salt... Butter Good gravy ... Bread sauce... 2 I OZ. Prepare as in preceding receipt. Season them well inside. Put into each bird. Roast them before a clear bright fire for 20 minutes, basting well the whole time. Pour over, j Serve separately.POULTRY. no 39—PIGEONS compote. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Pigeons Salt, pepper .. Fat bacon .. Flour Mushrooms . Small onions Bunch of pars- ley, chervil, and chives Stock White wine Butter Flour Sauce out of the stew-pan 3 oz. 2 2 slices I pinch 3 or 4 3 or 4 i pint I wine glass I oz. I pinch A small cupful Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put the pigeons in this butter, taking care to turn them with a wooden spoon till they are browned all over. Sprinkle over. Take them out and keep them warm. Cut into dice and brown in the stew- pan. Sprinkle over, stirring well. Put the pigeons back into the stew- pan. >■ Add to flavour the gravy. j- Pour over. Let all simmer gently till the pigeons are well done. Put the pigeons on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Mix together in another stewpan. Let it thicken. Pour it boiling on the pigeons and serve. 40.-STEWED PIGEONS, mth macarouL Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Macaroni Butter Pigeons 3 oz. ... 2 oz. 2 Boil in salt and water for | hour. Melt in a stewpan. Brown them in thg butter on both sides. N 2MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, i8o STEWED PIGEONS, with macaroni—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 1 oa.lt, pepper... ■ --—— oprmkle over. 5"' Take out the pigeons and keep them 0... Flour I pmch ... Add to the butter, stn*nng well. 7... Small onions 3 or 4 ... 8... Mushrooms ... To taste (Add to the butter to flavour the g... Bunch of herbs j gravy. 10... Salt, pepper ... II... Good stock ... I pint ... Pour into the stewpan, stir w^ell. 12... Drain the macaroni from the water, and put it into the gravy. 13... Let it simmer for 20 minutes. 14... Put in the pigeons and let them stew till tender. 15... Put the pigeons on a hot dish. 16... Remove the bunch of herbs, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, heat it up and pour it with the macaroni into the dish. Note.—Pigeons can be stewed in the same way with peas or asparagus tops instead of macaroni. 41.—PIGEONS, ct la crapandine. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pigeons 2 Cut them down the back and flatten them out. 2... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle all over. 3-- Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Brown the pigeons in the butter. 5... Put them to press between two stew- pan lids with a weight on the upper one. 6... 7... Eschalots Parsley 3 A few Chop them fine and add to the y butter, and stir for a minute or 8... Chives sprigs 3 or 4 ... too. g... Stock k pint ... Add to the butter, still stirring.i8i POULTRY. PIGEONS, a la crapatidlne—{continued)* Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. 10... Salt, pepper... A pinch of each Add. II... Simmer till the gravy is reduced to half the quantity. 12... Butter I oz. Melt on the fire. 13... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Finely crumbled. 14... Dip the pigeons in the melted butter and roll them in the bread crumbs. 15... Broil on a gridiron over a slow fire, 5 minutes on each side. 16... Vinegar ... A few drops Add to the sauce. 17... Pour the sauce into a dish, put the pigeons in and serve. 42-STUFFED PIGEONS, « la crapaudine. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pigeons 2... Livers 3- Sausagemeat 4... Bacon 5- Bread crumbs 6... Yolks of eggs 7... Salt, pepper,) and spice j 8... 9... White of egg 10... Butter II... 12... Lemon juice... ilb. ilb. ilb. To taste 2 beaten up Small quantity Prepare as described at 41. Chop fine. do. do. Soak in milk and then drain. Beat up. Mix all the ingredients together witli the yolks of eggs to form the stuffing. Fill the pigeons with the stuffing. Brush over the pigeons. Butter an earthen baking dish. Put the pigeons in and bake for i hour. Add to the gravy from the pigeons before servino:.182 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION IX.—GAME. l.-HAUNCH OF VENISON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Haunch of venison Warm water and vinegar Buttered paper Flour Water Strong paper Clarified dripping Butter Flour Red currant jelly ( Equal I quantities I sheet .. i lb. Choose a haunch with thick, bright fat and hang it some time. Keep it dry by wiping with a cloth, and sprinkle pepper over it. Wash the haunch and dry it well before cooking. Put this over the fat. I Mix into a ^ inch thick paste and ) put over the haunch. Put over the paste and tie on firmly with string. Roast before a large fire and baste at once with dripping to prevent the paper from burning. Roast from 3 to 4 hours. Remove the papers and paste 20 minutes before serving and baste well with butter. Dredge over and baste again. Serve with good gravy in a tureen. Serve with the haunch. Note.—Doe venison will require half an hour less time than buck venison. 2.-NECK AND SHOULDER OP VENISON. Both these joints are roasted in the same way but the paste may be omitted.183 GAME. 3.-VENISON, hashed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Venison 2 lbs. Cut the remains of cold roast venison in neat slices. 2... Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan. Good gravy ... I pint ... Add to the bones, &c. 4... Stew gently for J hour, then strain. 5- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 6... Flour I dessert Dredge into the butter to thicken it. spoonful 7... 8... When nicely brovi^ned add the strained gravy, boil and skim. When cool put in the slices of meat and simmer very gently till quite hot. 9.., Toasted sippets Serve v^ith toasted sippets round the dish. 10.., Red currant jelly Serve with the hash. 4.-VENISON, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of Bone it, and beat flat on the table. 2... venison Salt 1 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Cayenne pepper Pounded mace or allspice Mutton fat ... Port v^ine (if liked) ... I lb. ... J pint ... ... J ^ Mix together and sprinkle over the meat to season it. Cut some thin slices of the fat of a loin of mutton. Soak the slices of mutton fat for 2 hours. Put the slices of mutton fat on the venison, roll it up, and bind U securely with tape and string. Put the meat in a stewpan.MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK, VENISON, stewed—(contimied). Order Ing^redients. Quantities, Method, g... Gravy or stock l^ pint ... lO... Whole allspice i tea spoonful >Add. II.,. Black pepper 12... Port wine ... I wine glassful 13... Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer very gently for about 4 hours. 14... When done remove the string and tape. 15... Strain the gravy and pour into the dish over the meat. 16... Red currant jelly Serve with the venison. 5.-VENISON COLLOPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Venison I lb. ... Take uncooked venison that is free from fat and skin, and mince it fine. 2... Pepper Salt 1 Add to season the meat. 4... Put the meat on a gentle fire, and stir with a fork till quite hot. Simmer slowly for ten minutes. 6... Gravy or stock Add a small quantity boiling hot, if the collops are too dry. 7... Stew for 2 minutes, and serve very hot. 6.-VENISON CUTLETS. These are cut from the neck and are dressed like mutton cutlets.GAME. 7-TO TRUSS A HARE. 1. Cut off the fore legs at the first joint. 2. Raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs. 3. Leave the tail whole. 4. Draw the skin over the back and slip out the fore legs, 5. Cut the skin off the neck and head. 6. Skin the ears and leave them on, 7. Clean the vent. 8. Cut the sinews under the legs and bring them forward. g. Run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg. 10. Do the same with the fore legs. 11. Lay the head rather back, and put a skewer in the mouth and through the back of the head and between the shoulders. 12. Rinse the inside, wipe it dry, and rub it with pepper and salt. 13. The hare is then ready for dressing. 8—HARE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fine hare Veal stuffing Milk Butter Flour Butter Good gravy ... \ pint 3 oz. Prepare as in preceding receipt. Wipe quite dry. Fill the body and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoulders with another skewer, and be care- ful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire at first. Put into the pan and baste with it at first. Baste with it afterwards continually. After it has been roasting i^ hour, dredge over the hare. Baste well to make a froth. Roast from i^ to 2 hours. When done take it up and remove the skewers. Pour round the hare on a hot dish and serve with red currant jelly.MVJ^A'S COOKERY BOOK, 9.—HARE, jugged. Order ngre len s. Quantities Method. I ... Hare ... ... •«• Skin and cut in pieces, but do not wasli it. 2... Flour Dredge over. ■3... Butter Melt in a stewpan. 4... Pnf" in tVip Vinrf^ anri frv fi tiiff hrnwn 5*" X CLJUCl ) OCtxL) A rln frw Cf^ijcr^mticr and cayenne i^ pint 6... Stock Pnf" in i? lar xruL ill a * 7... Onion pricked If liked ... Add. with cloveSj herbs and 8... Lemon ... ... PfiAi r>nf m nolf <mri Qnn X^CCi) CUL 111 ildilj dllU cluU* y... Put in the hare. ... Cover the jar closely to keep in the II... Put the jar in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it boil from 3 to 4 hours according to the age of the 12... «•• ... .cc When done, put the contents of the jar into a stewpan and shake it over the fire for a few minutes. 13... Catchup I table spoonful > Add. 14... Port wine ... 2 wine glasses 15... Butter I oz. ... Roll in flour and add. 16... Forcemeat Fry and add. balls 17... Red currant Serve separately. jelly 10—HARE, en civet. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Hare Skin, dress, and cut up in small joints. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan.GAME. 187 HARE, en civet—(continued). Order. Ingredients. QuantitieES. Method. 3-- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15.., 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... 22... 23... Fat bacon ... Flour Blood of the hare Warm stock or water Small white onions Carrots Salt and pepper Garlic Thyme Bay leaf Basil Claret Mushrooms ... Butter rolled in flour i lb. ... 1 li pint 5 or 6 ... 2 if liked 1 clove .., A few sprigs I A Httle ... 2 wine glasses 4 Cut in slices and brown in the butter, then take them out again. Dredge over the butter that remains, stirring all the time. Put in the pieces of hare. Turn them in the butter and let them cook a few minutes. |Add. Put in the fried slices of bacon. Add. > Add, tying the herbs in a bunch. Let all boil gently for J hour. Add, and let it boil another ^ hour. Cut into two, and add towards the end. Add to thicken the gravy. Take the fat off, away from the fire. Taste to see if it wants more salt. Pour into a deep dish and serve. 11.—HARE, hashed. Order. | Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Remains of cold roast hare Cut the best parts into slices. Put the trimmings, head, and bones, into a stewpan to make the gravy.i88 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, HARE, hashed—[contlmied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3-. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... Water or stock Bunch of herbs Spice Pepper and salt Batter rolled in flour Catchup Port wine .... Forcemeat balls or forcemeat left from the pre- ceding day Toasted sippets Currant jelly I pint ... If liked I oz. 1 table spoonful 2 wine glasses Add. -Add. Stew gently i hour, then strain through a sieve into a stewpan. Add. ^Add. Add. Put in the slices of hare and set it over the fire till very hot. Put round the dish. Serve separately. 12.—RABBIT^ roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. ! Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... g... Fine large rabbit Butter Flour Milk Beaten eggs... Nutmeg Pepperandsalt 2 OZ. I table spoonful 4 spoons- ful 2 Truss like a hare. Fill the paunch with veal stuffing. Roast before a bright clear fire | hour. Baste the rabbit well. Mix all together, and baste the rab- > bit thickly to form a light coating over it.GAME. RABBIT, roasted—[coniimied)\ Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. 10... Butter 2 OZ. Baste the rabbit when dry with the preceding mixture, to froth it up. II... Place the rabbit carefully in a dish. 12... Good brown gravy boiled up with the liver minced and a little nutmeg Pour round it. 13... Red currant Serve separately. jelly Note.—A rabbit can be baked, and will require the same time in a good oven as for roasting. 13.—RABBITS, <^ Bouvguignonne, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Very young rabbits 3 or 4 ... Choose them from two to three months old. 2... Dress and cut them up. Butter i'ib. ::: Put into a stewpan over a brisk fire. 4... Put in the pieces of rabbit to brown. 5- Put the stewpan into a hot oven to simmer for \ hour. 6... Take out the pieces of rabbit. 7... Flour I or 2 tea spoonsful Add to the butter that remains in the stewpan. 8... 9... Stock White wine ... \ pint ... I wine glassful 1 Mix and pour in gradually, stirring j all the time. 10... Mushrooms ... 20 Cut into pieces and add. II... Salt, pepper, and grated Sprinkle over each piece of rabbit, which you then put back in the nutmeg stewpan. 12... Let it boil an instant. 13. Take the stewpan off the fire and place the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish.190 MmA'S COOKERY BOOK. RABBITS, a la Bourguigjtonne—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... i5... 17... 18... Yolks of eggs Lemon juice Salt and pepper 3 For fla- vouring V Beat up together. Add. Pour the egg, Sec, gradually into the sauce in the stewpan, stirring all the time, but do not let it boil. Pour the sauce over the rabbits and serve. 14.—RABBITS, CM chasseur. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Small rabbits Salt and pepper Olive oil Salt and pepper Parsley Eschalot Tarragon Water or stock Vinegar Salt and pepper I flask I wme glass h tea- spoonful Skin and draw. Dress as for boiling, but cut off the heads. Put the rabbits into a deep dish. Sprinkle over. Pour over and let the rabbits soak an hour or two. Put them on the gridiron and sprinkle them during the broiling with the oil they have been soaked in. Sprinkle over the rabbits and turn them. I Chop fine and put them in a sauce f pan. Pour over the herbs. Add. Let the sauce simmer. Pour round the broiled rabbits and serve.GAME. 191 15—RABBIT, en civet. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- Rabbit Butter Fat bacon , Flour Stock Claret II... 12 .. 13.., 14.., Small onions Bunch of herbs Bay leaf Pepper (not salt because of the bacon) 3 02. ilb. I dessert spoonful \ pint ... \ pint ... Skin, draw, and cut up. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Cut in slices and brown in the butter. Add the pieces of rabbit* Let them brown on both sides. Take out the rabbit and bacon and keep them hot. Dredge gradually over the butter, stirring all the time. I Pour over gradually, still stirring. Put back the rabbit and let all boil uncovered i hour. > Add before it has doile st^wingi Serve in a deep dish with the saucg. 16-ROAST RABBIT, Pnnch receipt Ingredients* Quantities! Method. t..* Rabbit 2... Butter 3- Salt and pepper Bacon ilb. Skin and truss like a hare. Melt in a stewpan over a gentle fire. Put the liver, &c., in the butter. Sprinkle over. Put the rabbit in and turn it till it is hot, then take it out and let it get quite cold. Lard it with fat bacon. Roast it ^ hour, basting with buttef or with the following sauce receipt.192 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 17-SAUCE TO SERVE WITH ROAST RABBIT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Liver of the rabbit Pound it. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a quick fire. Throw in the pounded liver. 4... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden 5-- Stock or water 1 pint ... Add, still stirring. 6... Eschalot I Chop and add. 7... 8... Vinegar Dripping from the rabbit 2 or 3 drops Add, still stirring. Add. 9... Put this sauce into the dripping-pan and baste the rabbit with it during the last I hour. 10... Serve it in a sauceboat. 18.-RABBIT, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Rabbit Warm water Boiling water Cold water .. Hot water Skin and clean well. Wash in cold water. Pour over and let it soak 20 minutes to draw out the blood. Draw the head round to the side, and secure it with a thin skewer through it and the body. Pour over to blanch it. Dip it in when you take it out of the boiling water. Put the rabbit into a stewpan. Cover the rabbit. Let it boil very gently till tender.GAME. 193 RABBIT, boiled—{continued). Ingredients. | Quantities. Onion sauce, or parsley and butter or liver sauce, made by mincing the liver very fine, and adding it to melted butter Pour over* An old rabbit will take quite an houi to boil. 19—RABBIT, en glhclvttc. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Rabbit Water Vinegar Buiter Bacon Fiour Stock White wine Or lemon juice or vinegar I pir.t A lew drops Jib. i !b. I or 2 tea spoon isful I large cupful I wine glassful I spoonful Skin and draw directly it is killed. Cut in equal sized pieces and put in a deep dish. Mix, and pour over the rabbit to cover it. Let it soak for an hour, then remove the pieces and drain them. Melt in a saucepan over a brisk fire. Cut in slices and throw into the butter to brown, then take them out. Wipe the pieces of rabbit with a clean cloth and put them into the butter in the saucepan. When quite tender take them out and keep them hot on a dish. Sprinkle into the butter to thicken it. ^ Add to the fiour and butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. O194 A/VJ^/VS COOKl^RY BOOK. RABBIT, en giheloite—{continued). Order, Ingredients. i Quantities. 1 Method. 14... Put the joints of rabbit and the pieces of bacon in this sauce. 15... Mushrooms ... 2D ^ 16... Salt, pepper... 17... Small onions 12 \ Add to the rest. 18... Bunch of sweet herbs J ig... Leave uncovered on a brisk fire for about f hour. 20... Serve the rabbit in a deep dish with the bacon, onions, and mushrooms round it. 21... Strain the sauce and pour it over. 22... Fried sippets Place round the dish and serve vei v hot. 20.—RABBIT, « Pvoveugale. Ingredients. Rabbit Bacon Veal Sherry Olive oil Saltandpeppei Garlic Quantities. ^Ib. A few slices 1 wine glass 2 table spoonsful 3 cloves Method. Cut in joints. Lard the joints. Put in a stewpan. Put the rabbit on the veal. Pour over. Add. Add. Add if Hked. Put on the cover and stew \tT\- gently. Serve with the strained gravy poured over.GAME. O 2 21—RABBITS, ivith herbs. Order. Ingredients, (Quantities. ivietnou. I... Rabbits 2 young ones Divide in joints. 2... Mushrooms ... 12 ) ^... A... Kschalots ... Parsley ^ or J A few sprip'S > Chop fine, and mix. ) Butter oz. Melt in a stewpan, and put in the chopped herbs, &c. 6... Put in the rabbit. 7... Flour I table Sprinkle over when the meat is firm. spoonful 8... White wine ... I wine glassful Add. Q... Salt, pepper, and nutmeg To taste Add. 10... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. II... Simmer for 20 minutes. 12... Gravy or stock A little ... Add. 13... Lemon juice I lemon... Add. 14... Butter I oz. Add. 15... 16... Mix and stir well together. Put the joints of rabbit on a dish. 17... Take out the bunch of herbs, and pour the sauce over the meat. Serve very hot. 22.—RABBIT, stewed with vegetables. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method, Rabbit Stock Salt, pepper, spice Carrots Turnips Celery Onions I large or 2 small 3 st;cks . 4 Divide in joints, and put them in a stewpan. Add enough to float them. Add to taste. Cut in small pieces and addMYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 196 RABBIT, stewed with vegetables—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... 9... 10... II... Sweet herbs... 1 A bunch Add and let the whole simmer gently until tender. Take out the vegetables and press them through a sieve. Moisten with the strained liquor they v/ere cooked in. Serve the vegetables under or around the rabbit. 23—RABBIT, c«mW. Dress in the same way as curried fowl. 24.-TO TRUSS A PHEASANT. 1. Pick and draw. 2. Wipe the inside with a damp cloth. 3. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 4. Bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the side bones. 5. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. 25-PHEASANT, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pheasant Truss as in preceding receipt. 2... Roast before a clear quick fire. Butter 20;'. Baste frequently. 4... Salt Sprinkle over. 5- Flour Dredge over lightly, to froth the bird. 6... Roast \ hour to i hour, according to size. 7... Good brown Pour over and serve separately. gravy 8... Bread sauce... Serve separately. Note.—It improves the pheasant if one tablespoonful of Madeira or Marsala bs put in the drippin^j-pan to baste the bird. French cooks put tried bread in the pan, and serve it under the bird.GAME. 26.-SALMIS OF PHEASANT. Order Irgredients Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast Cut in joints and take off the skin. pheasant 2... Put the skin, bones, and any pieces over in a stewpan. J'** Stock # pint Add. 4... Let it boil \ hour, then strain. 5--- Flour and Melt in a stewpan till brown. butter 6... Sherry I glassful Add. 7... Prepared gravy Add. 8... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. 9... Lemon juice... \ lemon Add. 10... When quite hot put in the joints of game, but do not let them boil. II... Serve with the sauce poured over. 12... Fried sippets Use to garnish the dish. Note.—Cold partridge, grouse, blackcock, &c., can be warmed up in the same way. 27.-TO TRUSS A PARTRIDGE. 1. Hang it several days. 2. Pluck, draw, and wipe it inside and out. 3. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 4. Bring the legs close to the breast between it and the side bones. 5. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. 6. The head may be left on, brought round, and fixed on the point of the skewer, but it is generally cut off. 28.—PARTRIDGE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridge Dress as in preceding receipt. 2... Fat bacon ... i'ib. „. Cut into strips and lard the paitridge. 3-- Or slices of Roll round the bird. baconMVRA'S COOKE A V BOOK. 198 PARTRIDGE, roasted—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Vine leaves ... When procurable wrap them rourc' the bacon, and tie up with a string 5-- Butter I OZ. Put in the dripping-pan. 0... If you have no vine leaves baste Vv'iii ; the dripping from the bird. 7... Roast 20 minutes. 8... Salt Sprinkle over before it has dont roasting. 9... Place the bird on a diy diMi a.. . serve. 10... Sauce If liked ... Serve separately. —PARTRIDGES, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridges ... 2 Pick and draw. 2... Divide each through the back an.i breast. 3- Wipe the insides. 4... Pepper, salt, Season the birds well. and a little cayenne Broil them over a clear bright fire. 6... Butter I OZ. Rub over them when done. 7... Brown gravy Serve with them. 0\J» -PARTRIDGES, aux choux. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Old partridges 2 Dress and truss. 2... Butter k lb. ... Melt in a stewpan over a quick fire. 3... Flour I table Sprinkle over the butter, stirring: au spoonful the time. 4... Put in the partridges. 5- Stock i pint ... Add. \ .GAME. PARTRIDGES, mix choux—(continued). Fat bacon Sausage meat Onions pricked with I clove Salt and pepper Bay leaf Bunch of cher\ il, chives, and parsley Carrots 14...! Cabbage Boiling water lb..J ... Water Salt Stock or water Quantities. Method. I slice \ lb. I pinch . Cut into dice and add. Add; a few slices of Bologna ! sausage may also be added. Let all simmer to 2 hours, and in the meantime prepare the cabbage in the following manner. Put in a pan. Pour over to wash and whiten it. Let it soak, then press all the water out. Put the cabbage in a saucepan. Pour over till the cabbage swims. Sprinkle over a good quanity. Boil I hour, then take it out and strain. Cut it in two and put it to finish cook- ing on the partridges. Pour into the stewpan if there is not enough sauce. Let all simmer 2 hours, if the part- ridges are old birds. Prick the birds with a fork to see if they are done enough. Serve the partridges on the cabbage. 31.~PARTRIDGES, braised. Ord^r, 1 1 Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Partridges ... 2 Truss them with their legs turned in. \:: Fat bacon ... 3 or 4 Lard the partiidges with the baca;.. bhces200 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. PARTRIDGES, braised—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- Bacon Several Line a stewpan, and place thti slices partridges on the bacon. 4... Carrots 2 or more Cut into dice, and put round the Onions 2 or more 1 p irtridges, as many as liked. Add. 6... Bunch of sweet herbs 1 7... 8... Salt, pepper Stock I large 9... White wine ... cupful I v\ ine glassful 1 Pour over the whole. 10... Simmer gently for i hour, then take out the birds, and put them on a hot dish. II... Skim, boil up, and strain the sa'ice. 12.., Lemon juice ^ lemon... Add to the sauce, before pouring it over the birds. Note.—Braised partridges can be served with any purie of vegetables. 32.—PARTRIDGES, chasseur. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridges ... 4 small Dress and cut in two lengthways. ones 2... Flatten the pieces gently. 3- Butter i'lh. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Put in the partridges. 5- Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 6... Bread crumbs 3 oz. Put in a dish. 7... Take the partridges out of the pan, dip them in the bread crumbs. then put them at once on a grid- iron over a good fire. 8... Butter 3 oz. Melt in a saucepan to make a maitre d'hotel sauce. 9... Epchalots 2 or 3 ... ) Chop fine and sprinkle over the 10... Parsley f butter.GAME. 201 PARTRIDGES, au chasseur—(continued). Ordnr. I.igredients. Quantities. Method. II .. 12,.. t:{... Salt and pepper Lemon juice... A few drops Add. Place the partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 33.-RAGOUT OF PARTRIDGES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2. f. 4... 0... 7... 8... Q... 10... II... 12... 13... 14.... Partridges ... Stock Butter Mushrooms ... Flour Butter Pepper Lemon juice... Capers Any cold remains 1 pint ... 2 oz. 20 I oz. I oz. I pinch ... i lemon... I spoonful Cut in small pieces or joints. Put the bodies and bones left over in a saucepan. Add to the bones. Boil gently one hour, then strain. Melt in a stewpan. Throw into the butter to brown, then take them out, and put them aside. Put the pieces of partridge in the stewpan to brown. Sprinkle over, and stir well. Add the stock and mushrooms. >Add, stirring well. Arrange the meat round the dish, and pour the sauce and mush- rooms into the middle; serve very hot. 34.-SOUFFLE OF PARTRIDGES. Order. 1 [ Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2 •. j Partridges ... I Any cold remains Remove all the meat from the bones. Take off the skin, and pound the meat with the livers in a mortar.202 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. SOUFFLE OF PARTRIDGES—(cow^jfiz/^^f). I tTder. ; i Inc^redients. Quantities. Method, i 3-- Brown stock h pint ... Warm the pounded meat in this, and then strain it. 4... ... Break the bodies, and boil them down with all the bones and skin from the birds. ... Strain the gravy, moisten some roux with it, and reduce it. 6... Brown glaze Small Add, and continue reducing until it quantity is half the consistence of glaze. 7... Put in the pounded meat. Q 0... IjULLCI ... Small ^ piece i Add. 9... Nutmeg A pinch 10... Yolks ot eggs 4 Beat up and add gradually. II... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a froth and add; stir well. 12... Pour into a paper souffle case. 13... Put in the oven, and serve as soon as it rises. 35-PTARMIGAN, BLACKCOCK. These are dressed and served like partridges or pheasants. 36.-GROUSE. Order. Ingredients. 1 Quantities, j 1 Method. I... Grouse 2 Let them hang some time, then pluck and draw them. 2... Wipe them well but do not wash them, and truss them without the heads. 3 Butter 2 OZ. Melt to baste the birds. 4... Roast before a bright fire and baste well. 5- Slices of bread 2... Toast and butter them, and put them in the dripping pan to soak. 6... 1 Serve the birds on the toast with gravy and bre^d sauce. 0GAME, 37.-LANDRAIL. These birds are dressed in the same way as grouse and served on fried breadcrumbs, with brown gravy in a tureen. Bread-sauce can also be served with them. 38.-TO TRUSS QUAILS. 1. Pluck, singe, and draw. 2. Cut off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet. 3. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the wings. 39.—QUAILS, roasted. Crcer. Ingredients, Quantities. Method, r... Quails 2... Pluck, draw, and truss. Fat Bacon ... \ lb. ... Cut into thin slices, and cover the breasts of the birds. 3- Vine leaves ... Tie on over the bacon. 4... Roast them 12 or 15 minutes before a very brisk fire. Salt, pepper... Sprinke over. Butter 2 0Z. Baste well. 7... Fried bread ... Serve under the birds. 8... Take the fat off the dripping, and pour over the bread. 9... Sliced lemon... Serve separately or round the dish 40—QUAILS, hroiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Quails 2...i ... 3... Olive oil 1 4...' Bay leaf 3... Salt and pepper f).., ... 7... Fat Bacon ... 2 I table spoonful I Pluck, singe, and draw. Cut open down the back. V Put at the bottom of a stewpan. Put the quails on the top. Put a thin slice over the quaih .MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 1 QUAILS, broiled—[continued). Order. ■ Ingredients. Quantities. I Method. 8... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Dip the quails in when they are three parts cooked. 9... Put the quails on the gridiron over a good fire. 10... Stock ^ pint ... Pour into the stewpan the quailb were cooked in. II... Stir, take the fat off, and serve with the quails. 41.—QUAILS, «w chatcsseur. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Quails ^2 Pluck, draw, and truss. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire 3-- Sweet herbs... Chop fine and add. 4... Put the quails in. 5- Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 6... Keep turning the quails in the butter till they are done. 7... Take out the birds and keep them warm. 8... Flour A pinch... Sprinkle over the butter that remains in the stewpan, stirring well. 9... White wine ... I wine glassful 1 Pour in, still stirring. 10... Stock II... Let the sauce thicken without boiling. 12... Pour it over the quails and serve. 42.—LARKS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Larks 6 Some amateurs prefer them not drawn. We prefer them drawn. Truss by drawing the feet under the beak and crossing them.GAME. 205 LARKS, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3 — 4... 5- Fat bacon Fried bread ... 6 slices ... Put a slice on each breast. Put a skewer through the 6 birds and roast in front of the fire. Roast 10 minutes. Serve under the larks and pour the gravy over. 43.—LARKS^ minute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 •• 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 12... Larks Butter Salt, pepper... Eschalots Parsley Mushrooms ... Flour White wine ... Fried bread ... 6 2 oz. 2 I sprig ... 10 A pinch... I wine- glass 6 slices ... Pluck and draw. Melt in a stewpan. Put the larks in to brown. Sprinkle over. Take out the larks when they are brown all over. / Chop fine and throw into the butter r that remains in the pan. Sprinkle over the mushrooms when they are done. Add gradually, stirring. Put back the larks in the pan. Put on a dish ; place the larks on them; pour the sauce over and serve. 44.-ORTOLANS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 'r • • • 5" Ortolans Salt and pepper i I Truss like larks, but do not draw them. Put a long skewer through them all. Sprinkle over. Roast them 10 minutes before a good • fire. Serve without sauce.206 45.-TO TRUSS SNIPE, WOODCOCKS, AND GOLDEN PLOVERS. 1. Pluck and wipe the birds very clean inside. 2. Truss the legs quite close to the body, the feet pressing upon the thighs. 3. Skin the head and neck. 4. Bring the beak round under the wing. 46.-SNIPE OR WOODCOCK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Snipe or woodcocks 3 Pluck and truss. 2... Fat bacon ... Tie a thin layer over the birds, bird-spit through them and before the fire. run a roast 3- Toast and butter Put a slice under the birds to the dripping. catch 4... Butter 2 oz. Baste them continually, and them from 20 to 25 minutes. roast 5-" 6... Slices of lemon Serve on the toast. Serve with them. 47.-SALMIS OP SNIPE OR WOODCOCK. Ingredients. Remains of snipe or woodcock Stock Bodies of the birds and gi blets Quantities. A few spoonsful Method. Cut up. fake off the skin. Place the pieces, except the bod \, in a saucepan. Pour over. Warm over a slow fire, but do not let it boil. Pound, chop, and mix in a basi .j.207 GAME, SALMIS OF SNIPE OR WOODCOCK—(co/iJlmw^i). Order. ingrcclicnts. OuantUies Si n 1 A/T -.U A JVi6Lno(l, 1... 8... Eschalot Lemon peel ... I I slice ... j- Chop and add. 1" Salt and pepper Add. 10.., Put this mixture into another stew- pan. II... Stock, white I wine Pour over (if liked), mixing well with wine or glassful a wooden spoon, and adding Marsala gradually. 12... Let it boil uncovered for a i hour till the sauce is reduced one-half. 13- Strain the sauce and keep it warm. 14... Fried bread ... Serve under the birds. 15... Pour the sauce over and serve. 16... Lemon sliced Serve separately. 48.-TO TRUSS WILD DUCK. 1. Pluck and draw it carefully. 2. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 3. Leave the feet on. 4. Twist the legs at the knuckle and bring the claws up on each si le of the breast, or let them stick out at the back. 49.-W1LD DUCK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... Wild ducks ... Hot water ... Onion Salt 2 I pint ... I... I pinch... Pluck and prepare as in preceding receipt. Put to roast before a quick fire. I Add to the hot water. Wlien the birds have been down 5 or 6 minutes baste them with the hot water for a few minutes to remov« the fishy taste.p 208 MVRAS COOKERY BOOK. WILD DUCK, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8,.. 9... 10... Butter Flour Cut lemon ... 3 oz. ... Remove the pan. Baste well while roasting. Dredge over a few minutes before serving, then baste and froth. Serve with the ducks, and good brown gravy also. 50.-TO CARVE WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 — 4... 5- 6... Salt Cayenne pepper Lemon juice... Butter Small piece Cut the breast in neat small slices, but leave them on the bird. 1 Sprinkle over the cut breasts Squeeze all over the bird. Put on the bird to melt. Let the butter and lemon juice run into the gravy, mix them in the dish and pour over the bird several times. 51-SALMIS OF WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3... Remains of wild duck Butter 2 OZ. Divide in nice joints. Melt in a saucepan. Brown the pieces of meat ia the butter.GAME. SALMIS OF WILD Yi\5^¥.—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stock or gravy from ducks Claret Eschalot Clove Pepper Meat glaze Olive oil Lemon juice., Raspings of bread 1 large cupful 2 wine- glasses ful I I A pinch... Small piece I dessert spoon- ful I lemon... I or more spoonsful > Add and let the vv^hole stew gently. |-Add. J Squeeze over. I Mix with the sauce. Serve the duck with the sauce poured over it, and put sippets of toast round the dish. 52.-RAGOUT OF WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Cold wild duck Stock Eschalots Butter Flour Port or claret Lemon juice... Cayenne 53 These are I pint ... 2 I oz. I tea- spoonful I wine- glassful \ lemon I pinch ... Cut in joints and lay aside. Put the bones, skin, and trimmings in a stewpan. ) Add to the meat in the sttwpan and f simmer for \ hour, then strain. Melt in a stewpan. Dredge into the butter. Add the sauce, boil, and strain. Add to the sauce. Put in the pieces of duck and let them get quite hot, but not boil. -TEAL, WIDGEON. dressed ar.d sjrvcd like Wild Duck,MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 210 SECTION X.—VEGETABLES. l.-ASPARAGUS, hoiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... 7- 8. Asparagus Water Salt I handful Scrape lightly with a knife to clean them. Tie them up in little bundles of lo or 12 with string. Make them of equal size by cutting off the white tops. Boil in a saucepan. Throw it in the water. When the water boils put asparagus. Let them boil 15 minutes. Take them out of the water strain them. Take off the string and place them on a warm vegetable dish. the and Note.—French cooks s;rve melted butter with asparagus. English cooks generally Berve it on toast. 2.-ARTICH0KES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Artichokes ... Boiling water Take off the hard leaves at the bottom. ' Cut the points of the leaves with scissors to trim them. Cut the stalk close to the artichoke. Put the vegetables at the bottom of a saucepan, head downwards, pressed close to one another. Pour over till all are covered.Ill VEGETABLES. KKl\QYiOYi^^~{contimied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... 7- 8... g... lO... Salt and pepper Bunch of parsley, chervil and chives Butter 2 OZ. 1 1 [■Add. J , Boil over a quick fire. They are sufficiently done when a leaf can be easily broken off. Note.—French cooks serve melted butter with artichokes. 3.-JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. These are boiled in the same way as potatoes, and served with white sauce poured over them. 4. — BROCCOLI, boiled. See the receipts for cauliflower. 5.-BRUSSELS SPROUTS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. Brussels sprouts Cut off the stalks and the first row of leaves. 2... Put them in a saucepan. 3-- Salt Sprinkle over. 4... Boiling water Pour over till all are covered. 5- Let them boil 15 minutes or till tender. 6... Drain in a cullender and vvipe in a clean cloth. 7... Butter 2 0Z. ... Melt ill a stewpan. 8... Salt and pepperj Sprinkle over. 9... Throw in the sprouts and let l]-ic:a brown in the butter. r z2i2 JJV/^A'S COOKERY BOOi:. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, sautes—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ro... Stock or cream I wine Pour over gradually, stirring well. glass II... Reduce the sauce and thicken. 12... Pour over the sprouts and serve i once. 6-BRUSSELS SPROUTS, hulled. See first part of preceding receipt. 7-BROA.D BEANS. C.Jrdei Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. Broad beans... Choose them quite young and shell them. Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. When the water boils, th'ovv in the beans and boil them fast for 15 minutes or till tender. 4... Parsley and Serve separately. butter 8.-CABBAGE, hoiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cabbage I Pick off the dead leaves and cut the stalk quite close. If large, divide into quarters. 2... Cold water ... Pour over and wash well. 3-- Boiling water 2 quarts 1 4... Salt I table spoon 5... Soda Very small j> Mix in a saucepan. piece 6... When the water boils fast, put in the cabbage. 7... ... Keep it uncovered and boil quickly till tender. 8... Drain through a cullender and swerve on a hot dish.VEGETABLES. 213 9.~CABBAGE, stujfed. Ingredients, Qusntities. ATethod, I... White hearted I large Take off the large leaves and tha cabbage one stalk. 2... Put it into a pan. 5"- Boiling water Pour over and let it soak \ hour. 4... • Clean and drain well. 5"" Open the leaves and remove the heart. 6... Forcemeat well seasoned I lb. ... Fill the hollow and place between each leaf. 7... 8... Slices of fat bacon Cabbage leaf Put over the forcemeat. Put over the bacon. 9... Tie it up neatly with tape. 10... Stock \ pint ... Put into a stewpan with the prepared cabbage. II... Thyme and bay-leaf 1 Add. 12... Carrots 2 13... Let all stew gently 2 hours. 14... When the cabbage is done, untie it and serve with the sauce thickened with butter and flour. 10.—CARROTS, ^ 1(1 mattre d'hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots Scrape and clean. 2... Cut into round slices. 3- Fresh butter... 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Put in the carrots. 5-- 6... Salt and pepper Flour 1 Dredge over. 7... Chopped herbs Add. 8... Stock or water A few spoonsful Pour over at once to prevent the carrots from browning. g... Stir gently with the wooden spoon. 10... As soon as the carrots are tender, take the stewpan off the fir^.MYR^rS COOKERY BOOK. 214 CARROTS, a la maitre d'hotel—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Put the carrots on a hot dish. 12... Yolks of eggs I or 2 ... Beat up with a few drops of water. I3-- Add to the sauce, pour over the carrots and serve. 11-CARROTS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. ! Method. I... Young carrots Need only be washed. Old ones should be scraped. 2... Hot water ... Put into a stewpan. 3-- Salt \ spoonful Add. 4... ... Put in the carrots. 5"- 6... Let them boil fast for 20 minutes. ... Rub with a clean cloth to take off the skins. 7... ... Put them into a dish and serve. CAULIFLOWERS, hoUed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cauliflower ... Pick off first row of leaves and cut the stalk close. 2... Salt and water Pour over the cauliflower, and let it soak head dovvnwards for an hour. 3-- Drain in a cullender. 4... Water Boil in a saucepan. 5- z Put in the cauliflower when the water is boiling fast. 6... Keep it uncovered, and boil 15 minutes, or till tender. 7... Skim the water. 8... Drain and serve with white sauce.215 VEGETABLES, 13.-CAULIPL0WERS, French fvay. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cauliflower .. Cold water and vinegar Boiling water Salt Flour and water Melted butter A few drops Take out the flower in little bunches, throwing away the stalk. Mix in a pan. Throw the cauliflower as you pick and clean it into the pan. Drain and put in a saucepan. Pour over till all is covered. Sprinkle over. Stir up together, and throw over the cauliflower to keep it white. Boil 15 minutes or till tender, then drain. Pour over the cauliflower on a dish. 14.~CAULIFLOWER-CHEESB. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flower of boiled cauli- flower Butter Salt, pepper.. Grated Par- mesan cheese Bread crumbs Butter Throw away the stalk and break the flower in small pieces. 2 oz. . .| Melt in a pie-dish. Sprinkle over. 3 oz. ... Put a thick layer on the butter. Put the flower of the vegetable on the cheese in a layer. Put another layer of cheese. 2 oz. ... Put a layer on the cheese. 2 oz. ... Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the whole. Bake in a hot oven till brown. Serve hot.MVKA S COOKERY BOOK. 2l6 15.—CELERY, au jus. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Celery Several Clean well and cut into equal lengths sticks of 2 to 3 inches. 2... ... Cut each slice lengthways and throw into a deep dish. 3- Boiling salt Pour over till all is covered. and water 4... Let it soak a few minutes to whiten it, then drain through a cullender. 5-- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 6... Flour I dessert Sprinkle over. spoonful 7... Stock i pint Pour over gradually stirring all the time. 8... Salt and pepper Add. 9... Put the celery into this sauce. Let it simmer uncovered till the sauce is much diminished. 10... Stock, butter, Add towards the end to bind and and flour thicken the sauce. mixed to- gether II... Serve all together in a deep dish*. 16—CELERY, boiled. Dress like sea-kale, and serve on toast, with v/hite sauce poured o\'er it. Celery can also be stev/ed in gravy. 17-CUCUMBERS, sUtffed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3 Cucumbers .., Boiling water Small ones Peel them, and cut off one end. Take out the inside with a knife. Throw them in for a few minutes to blanch. Put them in cold water and drain.217 CUCUMBERS, stuffed-^{conHnued), Ingredients. Forcemeat Quantities. I lb. 7... Bacon 8... Bacon g... 10... Good gravy ... I large cupful II... 12... 13... Butter I oz. 14... Flour I tea spoonful 15... Glaze |oz. .. 16... Lemon juice... I tea spoonful Method. Have ready a good well seasoned forcemeat. Fill the cucumbers, put on the ends that were cut off, and fasten them on with little wooden skewers. Put a thin slice of bacon round each cucumber, and tie it on with string. Line the stewpan with thin slices. Put in the cucumbers. Pour over and stew gently 20 minutes. Take out the cucumbers, and remove the bacon, strings, and skewers. Skim and strain the sauce. I Mix together, and add to the sauce I on the fire. Add. Add to the sauce, stir well, and when very hot pour over the cucumbers. 18.-FRENCH OR KIDNEY BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. French beans Salt & water Cut off the tops and stalks, and the stringy part from each side. Cut them into long strips. Boil in a saucepan. When the water boils throw in the beans. Leave them to boll fast uncovered 15 minutes, or till thev are tender. Drain and serve.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 2l8 19.~FRENCH BEANS, smiUs, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans Prepare according to preceding re- ceipt. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in saucepan over a slow fire. 3- Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. 4... Put in the prapared beans, and stir them in the butter until very hot. 5- Lemon juice Squeeze over before serving. 20.~TO KEEP FRENCH BEANS. Order. ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans Prepare according to receipt No. 18. 2... Drain, spread on a cloth, and dry in the shade. 3- When dry, tie them up in paper bags. and soak 12 hours in cold water before using. 21.-~FEENCH BEANS, a la pouhite. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans I lb. ... Choose them very young and tender, 2... and prepare as usual. Wash themi in cold water. 3- 4... Water Salt 3 pints ... I spoonful Boil in a saucepan. Add. 5... When the water boils throw in the beans and let them boil quickl}. uncovered to keep them green. 6... When done drain carefully. 7... 8... Butter Flour I oz. I tea spoonful 1 W^ork together and melt in a stew- 1 pan, stirring for 3 minutes,VEGETABLES. 219 FRENCH BEANS, d la pouhtte—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 9... Liquor I large Pour on a cupful of the liquor the cupful beans were boiled in, add salt. XO... Stir on the fire for 10 minutes. II... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add to the sauce, but do not let it boil. 12... Butter I QZ. ... Melt and add gradually. 13... Parsley \ spoonful Chop fine and add. 14... Put in the beans, stir well till thoroughly hot and serve. 22.—FRENCH BEANS, <i mattre d'MteL Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans Prepare as in previous receipt as far as No. 5. 6... Take care that the beans do not get cold; drain at once and put in a stewpan. 7... Butter I oz. 8... Chopped I spoonful 1 Mix together and melt in the stew- parsley )■ pan with the beans, stirring well Q... Pepper and salt J for a short time. 10... Vinegar A few Add if liked. drops 11... Serve quickly on a hot dish. I 23.-PRENCH BEANS^ a Vetuvee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... I Beans Choose large, long, flat beans, trim and cut them slantii^g through the bean in thin slices. 2... i Put them in a stewpan.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. FRENCH BEANS, a Vetuvee—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- Butter I oz. Melt and add. 4... Onion Chop and add. 5... Pepper and salt ... ::: Add. 6... Put on the cover, and stew gently, stirring from time to time. 7... Beans dressed in this way have an excellent flavour, but are not a good colour. 24.-GREEN PEAS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Peas I peck ... Shell. Water 3- Salt I tea- spoonful 1 Boil in a saucepan. 4... Put in the peas. Mint 2 sprigs... Add. 6... Boil ^ hour with the saucepan well covered. 7... Drain. 8... Serve up hot. Note.—Some people put butter into the peas before serving, but it doss not improve their appearance. 25.—GREEN PEAS, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3-- 4.. 5--- 6... Green peas .. Cold water ... Salt, pepper... Small onions Bunch of par- sley, chervil, and chives I pint ... Put into a saucepan. Pour over them 3 or 4 Add. I) ..,! Boil I hour, till the water is nearly boiled away,221 VEGETABLES GREEN PEAS, French way—{continued). Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. /••• Drain the peas and remove the herbs. 8... Put them back in the saucepan. Butter Size of an \ 10... Flour egg I tea- \ Mix together into balls. spoonful ) Throw them into the peas and stir quickly with a wooden spoon. II... 12... Powdered If liked ... Add I teaspoonful. 13... Yolks of eggs 2... 14... Milk or water I table spoonful 1 Beat up in a bowl. 15... Salt or pow- dered sugar I pinch ... 16... Take the saucepan off the fire. 17... Mix the egg, &c., into the peas, stirring quickly. 18... Serve at once on a hot dish. 26—GREEN PEAS» a la Frangaise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... Lettuce Wash and clean it, tear it apart, and put in a stewpan. 2... Butter 30Z. Add. 3- Peas I pint ... Add. 4... Small onions A few ... Add if Hked. 5-- Salt A pinch... Add. 6... Put on the cover and let the peas stew gently for | hour. 7... Sugar I oz. Add when the peas are tender. 8... g... Butter & flour I oz. Mix together and add. Take the stewpan off the fire and stir well. 10... If the sauce is too thick add a little water. Note —If preserved peas are used they should be first washed in boiling water; r>\i\ peas if partly boiled first and then stewed in this, or the following manner, bs.jconie tender and palatable.^22 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 27.-GREEN PEAS, with bacon. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon i lb. ... Cut in small thin slices. 2... Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Put in the slices of bacon. 4... Flour ^ oz. Sprinkle over and stir in well. 5- Water 1 pint ... Add if the peas are dry. 6... Peas I pint ... Add ; if these have been washed, the water adhering to them will be enouo^h at first. 7... Onion I Add if liked. 8... Sweet herbs... I bunch... Add. 9... Put on the cover and stew gently ; if the peas are too dry, add a little water or stock. 10... Take out the onion and herbs before serving. 28.—STEWED PEAS, ^it^ tinned meat. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. T ... 2... 3-" 4... Peas Sweet herbs... Meat I pint ... I bunch... Stew the peas as in Recipe No. 26. Add to the lettuce and onions. Divide in small pieces, and add with the jelly when the peas are nearly doxie. When quite hot remove the herbs and onions, and serve altogether in a deep dish. 29.-PUREE OP GREEN PEAS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3" 4... Green peas ,.. Boiling water Leeks Parsley 2 pints ... 2 or 3 ... A few sprigs Put in a saucepan. Pour over them till they are covered. Tie them together and add. Add.223 VEGETABLES. PUREE OF GREEN V'Ek'^—icontlnued). Ingredients. Quantities Salt Butter Pepper and salt vStock \ pint Add. When the peas are done, remove the leeks and parsley, and mash the peas. Put them in a stewpan. Add. Add. Add. Mix very smooth and serve. 30.-PURSE OP DRIED PSAS. Ingredients. Quantities. Peas Cold water ... Carrot Onions Turnip Bacon or lard Salt Flour or brear\;umbi Butter Pepper, salt, and sugar I pint Wash them and put them in a sauce- I pan. ...i Pour over them till covered. 1 ...| Add when the water begins to boil. 2 I ) ^ '"j > Add and boil 4 hours. I A little of either added to the water will make the peas more tender. Add when the peas are partly cooked. When done let the peas remain a minute or two, then take them out with a slice. Keep the liquor to make soup. Masli the peas, tea Mix smooth with a little of the liquor spoor, illisj and add to the peas. Put the puree in a stewpan. Add. Add. Mix well and serve very hot.myrAs cookery book. 31.-HARICOT BEANS, hoiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... Haricot beans I pint Soak in water 24 hours before using. 2... Drain and put into a saucepan. 3*" V VAX 111 WdlCl Pour over till all are covered. 4... Carrots 2 5*" Onion pricked I with I clove Add. 6... Bunch of herbs 7... Salt 8... Let them simmer 2 hours or till tender. 9... Drain. 10... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. II... Butter 2 OZ. Put into a stewpan. 12... Put in the beans and stir them till quite hot. 13... Serve with parsley and butter if liked. 32.—LENTILS, a la maltve dliotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lentils Cold water Salt Salt Carrots Onions Parsley Chives Chervil Butter . Flour I pint I pinch 1 spoonful 2 or 3 ... I or 2 ... A few sprigs tied to- gether 3 OZ. I pinch ... Put in a large pan. Pour over till they are covered. Add. Let them soak for 24 hours. Boil quickly in the water they have been soaking in. Add when the lentils are about half- cooked. When tender drain and keep them hot. Melt in a stew-pan. Add the lentils and stir or shake well. Sprinkle over.VEGETABLES. 225 LENTILS, a la maitre d'hotel—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Parsley Chives Chervil Pepper & salt Stock ipint ... Yolks of eggs I or 2 ... Water I table spoonful Salt a pinch... Method. \ Chop fine and add. ! Sprinkle over. Add, gradually, stirring vJtW ; when the lentils are tender take them off the fire, but keep them hot in the pan. Beat up together in a basin and add gradually to the lentils, if liked, but this sauce may be dispensed wiih.. Serve very hot. 33.-PUREE OP LENTILS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lentils Cold v^ater Salt Butter or beei dripping Pepper & salt Fried bread ... I pint I spoonful Pick and wash them well. Pour over the lentils in the saucepan. Boil for four hours, and add hot water as required to keep the saucepan full. Add when half-boiled. When done let the saucepan stand a minute, then drain off the water. Rub the lentils through a sieve. Melt in a stewpan. Add. Put in the lentils and stir well. Serve very hot with sippets of bread fried in butter or dripping. 34.-LEEKS. These are boiled and served on toast with white sauce poured over them, like sea-kale. The water in which they are boiled must be changed two or three times. QAIYT^AS COOKERY BOOK. 226 35.-MUSHROOMS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... Note done in Mushrooms ... Boiling salt and water Butter sait !!! Cream —Mushrooms are the Dutch-oven. 36- 1 pint ... 2 OZ. 2 table spoonsful very nice sp -MUSHi Skin, take off the stalks, and put them into a dish. Pour over to whiten them. Drain through a cullender. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put in the mushrooms. Sprinkle over. When ready to dish up, stir in, but do not let it boil after. rinkled with pepper, rubbed with butter and lOOMS^ broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... Mushrooms... Olive oil Pepper, salt... V illegal ... Parsley Chives 37. 1 pint ... 3 table spoonsful 2 or 3 drops -mush: Choose them large and skin them. 1 Mix, and let the mushrooms soak in r it one hour. Broil on the gridiron : first on one side, then on the other. Put them on a dish. TVTiv witVi tVif nil 1 Chop and add if liked. Pour over the mushrooms and serve. ROOMS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2 .. 3- 4... 5... Mushrooms ... Water Vinegar Butter I pint ... 1 pint ... A little ... 2 oz. Skin them, and cut off the stalks. 1 Mix and wash the mushrooms. Put them to drain. Melt in a stewpan.VEGETABLES. 227 MUSHROOMS, sau tes—{con tinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Salt, pepper... Add. 7... Sweet herbs... A few Chop fine and add. sprigs 8... Put in the mushrooms, and shake them frequently for 15 minutes or till done. 38.-MUSHROOMS, on toast. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... I pint ... Cut in half if large, and skin them. 2... Hot water ... Throw them in to blanch them. 3- Cold water ... Throw them in to cool, then wipe dry. 4... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 5- Put in the mushrooms. 6... Flour A pinch... Sprinkle in. 7... Pepper, salt... Add. 8... Parsley A bunch Add. 9... Stock Add a little, and leave the mush- rooms in 15 minutes. 10... Lemon juice... I lemon... Add. II... Slices of bread Cut in rounds ^ inch thick. 12... Butter 2 oz. Melt, and fry the bread on both sides. 13... Put the fried bread on a dish. 14... Remove the parsley from the mush- rooms. 15... Pour the mushrooms with their sauce on to the bread. 16... Serve very hot. 39-ONIONS, glacSs. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions i^lb. ... Choose them of equal size. 2... Peel them without injuring the tops and stalks. 3... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Q 2MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 228 ONIONS, glaces—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Salt Stock Salt or sugar Butter Stock I spoonful If liked . I oz. A few spoonsful Sprinkle in. Put in the onions side by side, the stalks upwards. Pour over till the onions are half- covered. Add. Break in small pieces and add. Stew uncovered on a quick fire at first. Turn the onions with a fork one by one. Slacken the fire when they are half done. Reduce the sauce till it is nearly dried up. Dress the onions on a dish, taking care not to break them. Add to the sauce in the stewpan, mix well and pour over the onions. 40-SPANISH ONIONS, a Vetuvee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Spanish onions 2... 3- Butter 4... Flour 5... Stock 6... Claret 7... Pepper and salt 8... Bunch of herbs 9... 10... II... Sippets of bread 3 or 4 2 oz. I dessert spoonful i pint I pint Peel them and blanch them in boiling water. Throw them into cold water and drain. Melt and brown in a stewpan. Stir in gradually. Add. Add. Add. Add. Put in the onions and stew gently till tender, then take them out. Reduce the sauce, strain, and pour over the onions. Fry in butter and put them all round the dish. Note.—Spanish onions are also boiled and served with white sauce, or stewed inVEGETABLES. 229 41.-PAR SNIPS, hoiled. See receipt for boiling carrots. 42-POTATOES, hoiUd. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. Potatoes Cold water ... Pare and throw them into cold water. Drain and put in a saucepan. Pour sufficient over to keep them from burning. Keep them close covered and boil about \ hour. When done, drain out the water and let them stand covered for 2 or 3 minutes. 43-NEW POTATOES, hoiUd, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... New potatoes Rub the skins off, and put them in a dish. 2... Cold water ... Pour over and let them soak i hour. 3- Drain and put in a saucepan. Warm water Cover and let them boil \ hour with the saucepan uncovered. 5... Drain off the water and let the potatoes stand a few minutes before the fire. 6... Serve hot. Note.—Warm water is better than cold for young potatoes. 44—NEW POTATOES, French may. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Small young 3 lbs. ... Scrape and throw into cold water. potatoes 2... Drain and wipe them. 3-- Butter i'ii). Melt in a stewpan over a good fire.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. NEW POTATOES, Fveyich way—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Shake the pan to prevent the butter burning. 5-" When it is hot put in the potatoes. 6. . Stir and brown them all over. 1... Let them absorb all the butter. 8... Salt !!! Add at the end. Q... Serve hot. 45-POTATOES, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes Cut into thin slices. 2... Butter Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. 3- Salt Sprinkle over. 4... Throw in the potatoes. 5... Salt Sprinkle over again. 6... When they are fried on one side. turn them. 7... Let them get brown and crisp and serve hot. 46—POTATOES, Ici mattre d'hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Half boil, then cut into thin slices. 2... Butter \ lb. ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3--- Throw in the hot potatoes. 4... Chopped Sprinkle over, moving the pan about. parsley and chives 5... As the butter melts shake the pan to prevent browning the potatoes. ■s... Salt Sprinkle ov^r. When the potatoes are tender serve them hot.Vegetables. Take out the herbs before serving. 8... 47.-POTATO BOULETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2... Parsley and chives 3- Yolks of eggs 4... Butter 5- Boiled milk ... 6... Salt 7- Beaten whites of eggs 8... Flour g... 10... Boiling fat ... II... Salt 12... 2 lbs 2 2 oz. I teacup Boil and mash while hot. Chop and mash up with the potatoes. ^Add to the puree, putting in the frothed white of egg last. Sprinkle over a pasteboard. Make balls of the puree and them in the flour. Fry the balls brown. Sprinkle over. Serve dry with fried parsley. roll 48.—POTATOES, "^'^^^ bacon. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon \ lb. ... Cut in small pieces, and brown in a stewpan. 2... Flour I tea spoonful Add to the bacon, stirring well till brown. 3- Salt and pepper Add to taste. 4... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 5-- Water Half fill the stewpan. 6... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Peel, cut in pieces, and put with the rest. 7... Stew gently till tender. ::: ::;232 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 49.—POTATOES, '^^^^^ parsleyGerman receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Potatoes Butter Flour Salt and nutmeg Onion Boiling water or milk Chopped parsley 50. 2 lbs. \ lb. ... I table spoonful To taste I ^ pint I handful -POTAl Boil in water, then peel, and cut in slices. Met in a saucepan, without browning. Add and mix smooth with the butter. Add. Add if liked. Add. Put in the potatoes, and heat through. Add before serving and stir well. 'O RIBBONS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5 — 6... 7... Potatoes Oil Coif OT1/4 oaiL ana cayenne 51.- MASHE Wash, wipe, and pare them. Cut them in slices an inch thick. Pare the slices round and round in long thin ribbons, and throw them into cold water. When wanted, drain them in a sieve. Fry the ribbons in boiling oil, till quite crisp, and a nice brown. Drain them on a cloth. Sprinkle over and serve very hot piled on a dish. D POTATOES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Potatoes Miik Salt 2 lbs. ... 4 pint ... A pinch... Boil or steam them and peel. Crush with a fork until smooth. Boil and mix with the potatoes. Add.VEGETABLES, MASHED POTATOES— Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5... 6... 7... 8... Butter Butter 2 OZ. I OZ. Mix in with the potatoes. Shape in a mould or basin, and then turn on to a dish. Cut in small pieces, and put over the potatoes. Brown before the fire and serve. 52—POTATOES, souffl^es. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6 .. Potatoes Fat Cold water ... Salt 2 lbs. ... Peel and cut them in very thin slices. Fry them in moderately hot fat until nearly done. Take them out of the pan, and throw them into cold water. Take them out of the water at once, and let them drain. Fry again in very hot fat, and shake the pan all the time; as they become brown, they will swell. Serve very hot sprinkled with salt. 53—SALSIFY, sUwed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3^- 4... 5... 6... Cold water ... Vinegar Salsify Water Vinegar or lemon juice pint ... I table spoonful I pint ... I table spoonful 1 Mix in a basin. Clean and scrape the sticks to take off the skin, cut them in pieces about 4 inches long, and throw them at once into the vinegar and water to preserve their colour. 1 Boil together in a large saucepan. When the water boils put in the salsify with the skimmer.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 234 SALSIFY, stewed—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Salt and pepper Butter Butter Flour Good stock or gravy Salt and pepper 1 tea spoonful A little if liked 2 OZ. I dessert spoonful ipint ... tAdd and boil i hour at least; when done they become soft, and are taken out and drained. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over gradually and stir well. Add gradually, and stir all the time. Put in the salsify, and let it stew gently uncovered. Add towards the end. Pile the salsify on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve very hot. 54-SALSIFY, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salsify Prepare as before as far as No. g. lO... Fine flour ... I table spoonful Put in a dish and make a hole in the centre. II... Salt A pinch... 1 12... 13- Brandy Egg I table spoonful I yolk and ! Mix, pour gradually into the hole, ( mixing them with the flour. white 14... Milk or water A few Add and work in until the batter is drops quite smooth. 15... Butter or lard Melt in the frying pan over a quick fire. 16... Prepared Take one piece at a time on a fork, salsify dip it 'in the batter, and throw into the boiling fat, and fry on both sides. 17... Salt Sprinkle over both sides while frying. 18... Take the pieces out with a fork when done, and serve piled on a hot dish. 19... Fried parsley To garnish the dish.235 VEGETABLES. 55—SEA-KALE, hoiUd. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sea-kale Wash and trim it, and tie it in bundles. 2... Boiling water Throw the sea-kale in. 3- Salt I spoonful Add. 4... Let it boil about 20 minutes. 5- Toast Ifliked !!! Lay at the bottom of the dish. 6... Drain the sea-kale, and put it on the toast. 7... Melted butter Pour over it, or serve separately. 56.—SEA-KALE, stewed in gravy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sea-kale • Boil for 10 minutes in salt and water. 2... Drain and put it in a stewpan. 3... Brown gravy Pour over it till covered. 4... Stew gently for 10 or 15 minutes. s- Serve in the gravy very hot. 57—SORREL, 'French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sorrel I lb. ... Pick and wash it like spinach. 2... Boiling water Pour over it. 5"' Take it out again, drain it and press it dry. 4... Chop it, but not too fine. 5... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan, and when hot put in the sorrel. f)... Salt A pinch Add. 7... Flour I tea Sprinkle over gradually and stir well spoonfulMYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 236 SORREL, French receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stock Yolks of eggs Pepper and salt Butter 4 pint 2 Add and let it stew gently for J hour. Beat up in a basin. Add to the eggs. Take the stewpan off the fire, but keep it hot without boiling. Add the beaten eggs and stir them in. Add before serving. Put the sorrel on a dish and serve poached or hard-boiled eggs on it. 58-SPINACH, hoiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Spinach Pick each leaf, cutting off the stalk, and wash well. 2... Put in a saucepan. 3- Boiling water Pour over till all is covered. 4... Salt I table Add. spoonful 5- Boil fast, pressing down with the wooden spoon. 6... When tender, drain and chop fine. 7... Butter 2 oz. Heat in a stewpan. 8... Put in the chopped spinach. 9... Pepper and salt Add. 10... Stir on the fire till very hot and dry. II... Toast Put in a vegetable-dish. 12... Dress the spinach on the toast, and serve hot. 59—SPINACH, au jus. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Spinach Take off the stalk and rib of each leaf and wash in cold water, tlien boil in the usual way.237 VEGETABLES. SPINACH, au jus—{continued). Older. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3-- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... Butter Flour Salt Stock Veal broth or good gravy Butter Fried sippets I oz. I tea spoonful I table spoonful i pint ... i oz. ... Drain and press all the water out. Chop very fine. Melt in a stewpan. Sprinkle over. Add and shake over the fire for 3 minutes. Put in the spinach and stir for 5 minutes. Add to moisten the spinach. 1 Add gradually and stir v^ell in. Add just before serving. To garnish the dish. 60.-TOMATOES, stuffed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 3... 9- ' Tomatoes Pulp of tomatoes Forcemeat ... Bread crumbs 4or5 ... 41b. ... 2 OZ. Choose them large, round and well shaped. Peel them, cut off the stalks, and remove some of the pulp on the stalk side. Have a small quantity of this freed from seeds and seasoned to taste. Add to the mashed pulp. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation. Sprinkle over. Put the remainder of the forcemeat in a dish. Lay the tomatoes on this layer. Bake in the oven and serve very hot.238 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 61—TOMATOES, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... Tomatoes ... Gravy or stock Flour Butter 5 or 6 ... I tea spoonful I oz. Cut off the stalks and arrange them in a stewpan. Add till they are half covered. Stew gently till done on the under side, then turn them and stew the other side. Put the tomatoes in a dish. 1 Mix and put in the sauce to thicken ) Pour the sauce over the tomatoes and serve. 62.-PUREE OP TOMATOES, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2.,, 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Tomatoes ... Onion Good gravy ... Bayleaf Salt, cayenne ID I small ... i pint ... I or 2 ... To taste Divide, take off the stalks and squeeze the seeds out. Put them in a saucepan. Add. Add and let them boil up. Add. Add. Let them simmer i hour. Press through a sieve into a stewpan. 9... 10... II... Cream Flour I pint ... I tea spoonful 1 Mix, and boil for 5 minutes. Mix the cream with the tomatoes. 12... Heat thoroughly and serve very hot.VEGETABLES. 239 63.—TOMATOES, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tomatoes ... 6 Choose them of equal size, and cut off the stalks. 2... Toast in a Dutch oven or 3- Put them at the edge of the dripping pan. 4... See that no fat from the meat falls on them. 5-" Turn them until roasted all round. 6... They will take about 12 minutes. 64.-TURNIPS, hailed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. Peel and cut into quarters. 2... Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. 3- Put in the turnips and boil i| hours or till tender. 4... Drain and rub through a cullender. Butter I oz. Put into a stewpan. 6... Pepper Add. 7... Put in the turnips and stir over the fire till quite mixed and hot. Note.—When very young, turnips may be served whole. 65—TURNIPS, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Young turnips i|lbs. ... Wash, peel, and leave whole, or cut in dice. 2... Butter Size of an Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3-- egg Put in the turnips. 4... Sait ... I pinch ... Powdered I tea 1 Sprinkle over. sugar spoonful 6... Let them fry till they are a light brown.240 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. TURNIPS, French way—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... 9... VJlCtVjr \J\. o\.\J\,t\. \ pint ... Add gradually. Cover the stewpan and let all simmer gently till the turnips are tender. Serve hot. 66.- -TURNIPS, « IcL Poulette, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... Turnips Boiling water, salt and pepper Butter Flour, salt and pepper Stock or water Yolk of egg ... Vinegar 2 lbs. ... 2 OZ. \ pint ... I A few drops Wash, peel, and cut in pear-shaped pieces. Pour over them in a basin or deep dish, and drain through a cullender. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Throw in the turnips. Sprinkle over. Add gradually, stirring well and stew gently. Beat up in a basin. Add to the egg. Take the turnips out with a slice and dress them on a dish. Mix the beaten up egg with the sauce in the stewpan. Pour over the turnips and serve. 67—TURNIPS, minced. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. ... Cut them in very thin slices and dry them well with a cloth. 2... Butter 3 OZ. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- When hot put in the turnips.241 VEGETABLES. TURNIPS, minced—(continued). Order. Ingredients, Quantities. ivieinoa. 4... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. Powdered I tea Add. sugar spoonful 6... Shake the turnips in the butter that they may not stick together. 7... Cook gently a bright gold colour and serve without sauce. 68.—TURNIPS "^iih mustard sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Turnips Boiling water Butter Stock Butter Mustard Salt 2 lbs. 2 oz. i pint I oz. I dessert spoonful A pinch... Peel and cut in equal sized pieces. Pour over to blanch them. Melt in a stewpan. Add to the butter. Put in the turnips and stew gently. When tender take them out and put on a dish. Add to the sauce. Add and stir in well. Add, stir, and pour the sauce over the turnips. 69-VEGETABLE MARROW, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Marrows ... 2 Salt and water Toast Peel. Boil in a saucepan. When the water boils, put in the marrow and boil till tender. Drain, cut into quarters if large, halve them if small. Serve under the marrows, with white sauce over. RMYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 70.-VE GET ABLE MARROW, haked. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Marrow Onion sliced Pepper, salt... Butter I large Peel, cut in two and take out the I seeds. -) ... > Put inside the marrow. I oz. ... ) ...j Put the marrow in a vegetable dish. Bake i hour or till tender. Note.—Marrows are much nicer cooked this way than when boiled. 71.-VEGETABLE MARROWS, a Vetuvk. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Marrows 4 Choose them small and white. 2... Peel them, cut them in quarters, and remove the seeds. 3-- Cut the quarters in long pieces. 4... Boiling water ) Throw them into salted boiling \ water, and boil a few minutes. 5-- Salt 6... Drain them. 7... Butter 3 OZ. Melt in a stewpan, but do not let it brown. 8... Flour I dessert Add gradually. spoonful 9 •• Put in the pieces of marrow. 10... Miik Use as much as necessary to thin the sauce. II... Pepper and salt Add. 12... Parsley I dessert Chop fine and add. spoonful 13... Let the marrows stew for a few minutes, then put them on a hot dish. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and add to the sauce with- out boiling. 15... Pour over the marrows and serve.VEGETABLES. 243 72.-MACEDOINE OP VEGETABLES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 30- Potatoes Haricot beans French beans Cauliflower Artichokes Asparagus Cucumber Beetroot Vinegar Pepper and salt Spice Crayfish Prawns Anchovies . Turbot Salmon Sole Trout Hard boiled eggs Capers Olives Preserved cucumbers Sausage Lettuces Hard boiled eggs Salad oil Vinegar Pepper and salt If liked Choose as many of these and of other vegetables as are in season, ;> and prepare by boiling in salt and water; then let them drain, and cut them in slices or shreds, Mix together and put in the pre- pared vegetables. j- Shell and add if Hked. I Any of these or other kinds of fish I may be added shred in thin slices; I all remains of cold fish are ad- missible. Chop fine and add. Add. Remove the stones and add. Cut in slices and add. Cut in thin slices. Arrange all the ingredients in the salad bowl. Use the hearts for garnishing. Pound the yolks only for the dressing. Add. Add. Add and mix all the ingredients well together. Pour the dressing over the Macedoine or serve separately. R 2244 MY'RA'S COOKERY BOOK. 73.-SALADS. Lettuce. Endive, good all the year round. Watercress. Lamb's-lettuce or corn salad. From September till frost. Celery. Autumn and winter. Dandelion. From October till spring. Purslain. Fennel. Mustard and cress. Radishes. 74.-METHOD OF PREPARING SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lettuces Pick and examine each leaf separately. Throw them at once into cold water. 3 Drain in a salad basket, shaking it well. 4... Wipe and press each leaf dry with a cloth. 5... Tear in pieces with the fingers and put in the salad bowl. 6... Put the small salad on the top. 75.-DRESSING PGR SALAD. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salt, pepper... A pinch... Put in a salad spoon. 2... Mix and sprinkle over the salad. 3- Olive oil 2 or 3 Pour over and mix well in the salad. table spoonsful 4... Vinegar I dessert Add last of all. spoonful Note.—By mixing in this way there is never too strong a flavour of vinegar; if there is too much vinegar it sinks to the bottom of the bowl and does not mix with the oil.VEGETABLES. 245 76—SALAD DRESSING, prepared hefore-hand. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... Salt, pepper... Vinegar Oil 1 dessert- spoonful 2 or 3 table spoonsful r7.~PLA > Mix in a bowl or basin. ) Add by degrees, stirring all the time. Pour it over the salad in the bowl when required. IN SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... 8... Note. lettuces. Lettuces Mustard and cress Boiled beet- root Hard boiled eggs Oil Vinegar Pepper, salt —Radishes and cue 78 3 A good quantity 5 or 6 slices 3 2 table spoonsful I dessert spoonful Season M^ell umbers may b POTA Wash and cut oft the decayed leaves. Do. |Add, if liked. Tear the lettuces into small pieces. 1 Mix together and pour over the 1 salad. J e added. An endive may be used instead of TO SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... Potatoes Parsley Chives Chervil 2 lbs. ...| i Boil, dry, cut into slices and put them in a salad bowl. 1 Chop fine and sprinkle over.246 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. POTATO '^KLKD—{conthmed). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5 .. 6... 7- 8... Oil Vinegar Salt, pepper... 79.-SAL 3 table spoonsful I tnble spoonful AD OP 1 Mix together and pour over, stirring r well. Serve lukewarm. FRENCH BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5- 6... 7... Cold beans ... Salt, pepper ... Vinegar Sweet herbs... Olive oil 8C I pint ... 1 table spoonful 2 or 3 table spoonsful L-TOM/ Put in the salad bowl. Sprinkle over 2 or 3 hours before serving. Add with the salt and pepper, and mix. Cover the salad bowl and put it aside. Before serving drain the beans in a hair sieve, and put them back in the bowl. Chop fine and sprinkle over the top. Mix in the salad, and stir well immediately before serving. ^TO SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- Tomatoes Chopped parsley 8 I table spoonful Dip in boiling water and peel. Cut them in slices. Sprinkle over.VEGETABLES. TOMATO '^KLKD—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. 5... Vinegar I dessert Add and stir well. spoonful 6... Olive oil 2 table Add gradually, stirring all the time. spoonsful 81 "PISH SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Fillets offish Lettuces Mustard and cress Beetroot Mayonnaise sauce Choose sole, plaice, or whiting, and cut them in fillets. Roll them up and tie with thread. Boil them and when cold remove the threads. I Wash well, pick, dry, and put in X the salad bowl. Cut in slices and add. Make openings in the salad and set the fillets up edgeways in them. Put a table spoonful of thick mayon- naise on the top of each fillet. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 82—FISH SALAD, another way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Take away all skin and bones, and cold fish break in small pieces with forks. 2... Mayonnaise... Mix well with the fish. 3- Mixed salad... Pick, wash, dry, and put in the salad bowl. 4... Add the fish, stir all well togethef and serve.248 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 83.—SPINACH, an Entree. Order, Ingredients. Qu3.ntities. Method. I... Spinach 3 lbs. Cut each leaf from the stalk, and wash well. 2... Boiling water Place the spinach in a saucepan of boiling water, sufficient to cover it. o* • • Salt A little ... Add. 4... Boil quickly till tender; about \ hour. 1^ .. J"" Drain the spinach, and rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon. 6... Butter I oz. Add and mix well. 7... Place the spinach on a dish and keep hot. 8... Eggs 3 Break separately into cups. 9... Boiling water Poach the eggs. 10... Place carefully on the top of the spinach. II... Sippets of toast 12 Arrange round the spinach, points upwards. 12... Browned ma- caroni. Arrange all round the dish. Serve hot. Note.—The macaroni must be boiled first till tender, then browned in the oven. 84.—TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tomatoes 4 Cut each into 2 or 3 round slices. 2... Pieces of toast, buttered. 8 Cut about \ inch thick, and 2 inches square ; place on a dish. 3.-. Place a slice of tomato on each piece of toast. 4... Button mush- rooms. 8 Place one on top of each tomato. 5.- Butter ijoz. ... Put a small piece on each mushroom. 6... Pepper and salt A little ... Sprinkle over. 7... Bake about 10 minutes. 8... Parsley A few Fry, and garnish the dish. Serye sprigs. hot.249 VEGETABLES. 85.—CUCUMBER, Steived. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cucumber ... I average- sized. Peel, cut off the tip and about 2\ inches of the stalk end. 2... ... Cut the cucumber into rounds about 3 inches long, and divide in half, lengthways. Put into a stewpan. 3-.- Pepper and salt A little ... Sprinkle over. 4... Hot water, or waterand stock I pint ... Pour over. Stew gently about 20 to 30 minutes. 5... Take out the pieces of cucumber and arrange on a dish ; keep hot. 6... Corn-flour .., I dessert spoonful. Put into a saucepan. 7... Pour the gravy the cucumber was cooked in on to the corn-flour very carefully, stirring all the time. 8... Mushroom cat- I tea- Add. sup, or other spoonful. rehsh. 9... Browning 1 tea- spoonful. Add. 10... Boil up the sauce, and pour over the cucumber. Serve hot. Note.—Cucumber may be peeled and cut into pieces as explained in the above recipe, then simply boiled in water till tender, drained, and served on toast, with melted butter poured over, like vegetable marrow. 86.—POTATOES, baked with meat Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 8 Pare, throw into cold water, put into a saucepan. 2... Cold water ... Cover the potatoes, bring to the boil, and allow to boil 20 to 30 minutes. 3-- Drain the potatoes free from water, place them round the baking dish on which a joint is roasting ; when a nice brown, put into a vegetable dish, and keep hot until time to serve. Note.—The potatoes should not be put into the oven until the joint is within go to 30 minutes of being sufficientl}' cooked.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 250 87.—POTATOES, baked in their skins. Older. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 6 large Wash and scrub the skins well; wipe ones. dry. 2... Put in a moderate oven, and bake 2,\ to 3 hours. 3--- Serve, immediately they are removed from the oven, on a folded dinner napkin. 88—POTATO CROQUETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2 lbs. Peel, wash, and boil, as in previous recipes. 2... When thoroughly cooked drain off the water, and mash them with a fork. 3-.- Milk I gill ... Add. 4... Butter 1 oz. Add ; mix well with the potato ; put on a plate to cool. 5.-- When cold, make into small balls. 6... Egg I Beat up, roll the potato balls in it. 7... Breadcrumbs 3 table- Cover the balls with breadcrumbs. spoonsful. 8... Clarified drip- iib. ... Melt in a deep frying pan ; when the ping. fat boils, put the croquettes in, and fry a light brown. 89—POTATO LOAVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Potatoes 2 lbs. Prepare and mash the potatoes as in the previous recipe. When cool, make the potato into the shape of small loaves, and brown in the oven.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 251 SECTION XI.—EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 1 —EGGS, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Boil in a saucepan. Put them in the saucepan when the water boils. Let them boil 3 minutes. Serve them on a napkin or in egg cups. Note.—The fresher eggs are, the longer they will take to boil. 2.-HARD-BOILED EGGS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Cold water Salt Boil in a saucepan. Put them in the saucepan when the water boils. Let them boil 15 minutes. Pour into a deep dish. Take out the eggs from the boiling water and plunge them into the cold. Let them get cool, then shell them. Cut them in quarters and serve them on tomato sauce. Sprinkle over.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 252 3.-PRIED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a fryingpan and let it brown. 2... Eggs 6 Break carefully one by one into the pan, and prevent them spreading. Sprinkle over. 3- Salt 4... \Vhen they are a nice colour take them out with a skimmer and put them on a hot dish. Note.—French cooks make the following addition to fried eggs. 5... Eschalot 1 Mix and throw into the butter that 6... chopped Bread crumbs r remains in the pan. 7... 8... Salt Water Sprinkle over and stir. Add a few drops. 9... Vinegar Add 3 drops. 10... Pour this sauce over the eggs and serve hot. 4.-POACHED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water I pint ... 2... 3- Salt Vinegar I spoonful I wine glass 1 Boil in a saucepan f full. 4... Let it boil fast. 5... Eggs 6 Break them carefully one by one into the saucepan. 6... With the skimmer gently draw the white over each yolk. 7... 8... One minute ought to suffice to set the eggs. Move the pan a little on the fire, and let the eggs simmer for 2 or 3 minutes. Take them out with a slice. g... Trim, drain and serve on a folded napkin, or on spinach, or other vegetable.EGGS, OMELETE, AND CUSTARDS. 253 5—POACHED EGGS, en matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, Wine Water Sweet herbs... Onion Pepper and salt Garlic Eggs Fried sippets Butter Flour i pint .. ^ pint .. A bunch I stuck with cloves I clove I oz. I tea spoonful Put in a saucepan. Add. Add. Add. Add. Add if liked. Boil for 15 minutes. Take out the herbs, &c. Break into the sauce and poach one by one, taking them out when done. Place on a dish, put the eggs on the top and keep them hot. Work together and add to the sauce. Reduce the sauce, strain, and pour it over over the eggs, and serve very hot. 6.—EGGS, <^ moutarde. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan. 2... Mustard I tea Add and mix well together. spoonful 3- Vinegar A few Add. drops 4... Pepper and salt Add. 5... Eggs 6- ::: Boil hard, shell, and cut in half lengthways. 6... ... Put the sauce on a hot dish. 7... Arrange the eggs on it, and put a spoonful of the sauce on each half egg. Note.—Eggs are served in the same way with thick anchovy sauce.254 MYRA'S COOKnRY BOOK. 7-STUFFED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... 8... 9.,. 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... Eggs Crumb of bread Milk Butter Parsley Eschalots Pepper and salt Nutmeg Yolks of eggs 8 4 oz. A few sprigs 2 or 3 ... 2 Boil hard, shell, and cut in half length- ways. Scoop out the yolks and pound them in a mortar. Soak the piece of bread in milk, > squeeze and pound with the yolks. Add the same weight as the yolks. Chop fine and add. Chop and add. Add. Grate a little over, and mix well together. Beat up and add to the pounded yolks, &c. Mix well and press through a hair sieve. Put some of this mixture in each of the hard boiled whites of eggs and pile it up. Spread the remainder on a baking dish and lay the halves of egg on it. Put the dish on hot coals, and cover with a pan of hot coals. When nicely browned serve very hot. 8.-EGGS J a Vecossaise, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5-- 6... 7... Eggs Ham Fat bacon ... Butter Onion Parsley Sweet herbs... 6 I oz. I oz. I oz. I A few sprigs Same quantity Boil hard and shell. Chop all the ingredients very fine, > and then pound quite smooth in a mortar.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 255 EGGS, a Vecossaise—{continued). Order. T J- 4. ingredients. (^uEntities. Metiiod. 8... X U1JS.O KJL CiigO UCclL UL/. 9... Pepper, salt, and nutmeg A pinch of each Add to the beaten yolks. 10... Cayenne pepper A small pinch Add. II... Mix with the pounded ingredients to moisten them. 12... Cover the hard boiled eggs with the forcemeat. 13... Egg I Beat up the yolk and white together. 14... Dip the eggs in the beaten egg. 15... Bread crumb Roll the eggs in. 16... Boiling fat ... Fry a good colour and serve very hot. 9.—EGGS» brouilles, or mumbled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 2... Eggs 6 Break into a basin and beat up. 3-- Pepper and salt Add to the eggs. 4... Chopped parsley I dessert spoonful Add. 5- Milk I dessert spoonful Add and mix well. 6... Pour the beaten eggs on the hot butter and stir well over the fire. 7... When the eggs are set, but not hard, serve. 8... Fried sippets Garnish the dish. Note.—Eggs can be dressed in this beforehand, seasoned, and chopped fine. way and served with any vegetables cookedMYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 256 10.—EGGS, ^^^y le plat. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... Fresh butter Salt and pepper Fresh eggs ... ... I OZ. 4 Spread on the bottom of a dish that can go on the fire. There are tin enamelled dishes made on purpose. Sprinkle over. Break them carefully into the butter, taking care not to break the yolk, and arrange them regularly. Put the dish on hot cinders for ten minutes. Serve on the same dish. 11.- -OMELET CLUX fines herhes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3"- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... Parsley Bayleaf Chives Cress Fresh eggs ... ^alt and pepper Butter in small pieces Water Butter If liked . . . 6 1 OZ. 2 OZ. 1 Chop fine and mix together. Break into a basin and beat them well. I Add while beating. Add a few drops to assist the whites and yolks in mixing. Add the herbs, still beating. Let it stand a little. Melt in a frying pan over a clear fire. As soon as the butter is melted, pour in the eggs, &c. While the omelet is frying, shake the pan to prevent it catching. When it is firm, raise it and slip pieces of butter under it. Let it brown nicely. Fold the omelet in two. When it is done, slip it on a hot dish. Note.—The herbs may be left out for an omelet an naiurel.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS, 12.—OMELET w^'^^^ asparagus. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Asparagus ... Cut the tops of cold dressed asparagus in small pieces. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in the omelet pan. 3- Throw in the asparagus. 4... Add the beaten eggs seasoned with herbs, and proceed as in 11. 13.—OMELET "i^M mushrooms. Order. I... 2... Ingredients, Quantities. Method. Mushrooms ... 10 or 12 ... t.-OMEl Stew in butter for a few minutes. Mix with the eggs prepared for the omelet, and proceed as before. jET with onions. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. 2... 3- 4... 5- Onions Butter Butter : 2 or 3 ... 2 oz. I oz. .5.-OMI Peel and cut in slices. Melt in a pan. Throw in the onions and brown them. Add. Pour on the beaten eggs and proceed as before. 3LET (tu lard. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5-- 16... 17... Bacon or Ham Butter Sauce piquante \ lb. ... 1 lb. ... 2 oz. Cut in dice. Cut in thin slices. Melt in the omelet pan. Throw in the bacon or ham. When brown add the beaten eggs flavoured with pepper. Roll the omelet when done. Serve with the omelet. sMYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 16,-—OMELET anchois. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Anchovies ... 12 Soak in cold water for 15 minutes. 2... Scrape, and cut them in small slices. 3... Bread Cut in thin slices and toast. 4... Oil Fry the sippets in boiling oil. Lay the slices of anchovy on the toasted sippets. 5- ... 6.,. Eggs 12 Beat in a basin. 7.., 8... Salt, pepper... Oil ... Add. Put in a fryingpan on the fire. g... ... When it begins to boil, pour in half the beaten eggs for a thin omelet. 10... When done put it in a dish. IT... Lay the toasted sippets with anchovy on the omelet. T2... Make a second omelet with the remainder of the eggs. 13... Place this over the toast and serve. 14.- Good gravy or sauce Pour over or serve separately. IT—OMELET au fromage. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5... 6... Cheese Eggs Cream Pepper, salt... i lb. ... 12 I tea cupful Grate fine. Beat in a basin. Add the grated cheese. Add to the eggs and beat well. Add. Fry the omelet in the usual way. 18.—OMELET pain {economical). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 4... Stale bread ... Butter Eggs 3 OZ. 8 Cut in small pieces enough to cover the bottom of the pan. Heat in the pan, and fry the bread. Pour on the beaten eggs, and fry as usual.259 EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS 19.—OMELET ctti' Rhtim, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 13... Note omelet s Eggs Powdered sugar Grated lemon peel Milk Butter Powdered sugar Rurn —The rum may be lould have the ben J 6 I tea spoonful I lemon... A little ... 3 oz. ... I wine glass set lire to on ;fit of the spirj 50.-OMI Separate the yolks and whites into different basins. Beat the whites first. Beat the yolks separately. 1 Add to the yolks whilst beating. Pour the yolks, &c., into the whites and beat them altogether. Add if liked, still beating. Melt in a frying pan. Pour in the eggs, &c. See 13, 14, and 15 in first omelet receipt, page 244, When done, grate sugar over. Pour over the omelgt on the dishj he table or not, at will. We prefer that the t, 3LET soufflee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5... 6... 7... Eggs Butter Powdered sugar 6 \ lb. ... Break them into 2 basins, separating the whites and the yolks. See 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of preceding receipt. Put into a frying pan over a clear fire. Fry as in preceding receipts. When the omelet has absorbed all the butter, slip it on to a baking dish and put it into the oven to rise, with a little butter under it. Directly it has risen well, serve. Grate over and brown if liked.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 26o REMARKS ON OMELETS. The number of eggs used for an omelet should never exceed twelve, as a thick omelet is far less delicate than a smaller one. The omelet pan must be perfectly clean and never used for any other purpose. The eggs are best when beaten with a fork, but they should not be beaten for more than a minute or two, otherwise they become thin, and do not set well. Omelets are much lighter if a few small pieces of butter are beaten up with the eggs, or added to the beaten eggs immediately before frying. The butter in the pan must be quite hot, but not coloured, before tha eggs are put in. All kinds of vegetables, cold meat, poultry, game, fish, macaroni, etc.j can be added to omelets to flavour them; they must first be broken or cut in small pieces and lightly fried in butter. 21.—EGG CHEESE, or fondue. Order. [ Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fresh eggs ,.. Grated cheese Butter Salt, pepper Weigh. Take one-third the weight of the eggs. Break the eggs into a basin. Beat them well, gradually adding the grated cheese. Pour the contents of the basin into a saucepan and put it on a quick fire. Take one-sixth the weight of the eggs and add gradually in small pieces. Stir all with a wooden spoon till the eggs get thick. Sprinkle over, still stirring. Serve on a hot dish. 22.- SMALL EGG CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I tea 2... Milk spoonful Small 1 Mix together till quite smooth. quantity 3... Eggs 2 Beat and add.EGGS\ OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 261 SMALL EGG CkKE^—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt A pinch... Add. Whites of eggs 3 or 4 ... Beat to a froth, and add to the rest. 6... Butter 2 oz. Melt in the fryingpan. 7... Fry the mixture in spoonsful on both sides a light brown. 8... Serve with spinach. 23.-SWEET EGG CAKE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk Sugar Nutmeg Lemon peel... Eggs Yolks of eggs Butter i pint ... To taste A little ... I lemon... 5 2 3 oz. ... Put in a saucepan. Add. Grate and add. Grate and add. Let the milk get quite hot. Beat and add. Add and beat all well together. Heat in the frying pan. Fry the cake and serve hot. 24.-EGG-SNOW. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fresh eggs ... 6 Break into 2 basins, the whites one and the yolks in another. 2... Beat the whites to a firm froth. 3--. Powdered 2 oz. 1 sugar 4... Vanilla or To taste )■ Add whilst beating. almond fla- 1 vouring !262 JIIVJ^A'S COOKERY BOOK. EGG'SNOW—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5-- Milk I pint ... ] 6... Flavouring ... 1 Boil together in a saucepan 15 7... Powdered To taste ( minutes. sugar ) 8... ... Take the saucepan off the fire. 9... ... Take a large spoonful of the frothed whites and mould it into the form of an egg with another spoon, then drop it into the milk. 10... ... Use up all the w^hites in the same way. II... ... Put the saucepan on the fire again and let it boil 2 minutes. 12... ... ... Take the whites out with a skimmer and turn them in the cream. 13... Let them boil 2 minutes more. 14... ... Take out the whites, drain them over the milk and dress them in a pyramid on a deep dish. 15... ... Pour the milk remaining in the saucepan gently over the yolks, and stir them w^ell the same way with a wooden spoon. 16... ... Stir about 15 minutes till the cream is thick, pour over the whites and serve cold. 25.- -FRENCH CUSTARD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk J pint ... Boil in a saucepan* 2... Powdered 2 OZ. 1 3... sugar Flavouring of Either ... vanilla, al- j" Mix in the milk when it boils. mond, &c.EGGS, 263 CUSTARDS. OMELETS, And FRENCH C\]STkRV>—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 6... 7... 8... Eggs Boiling water Powdered sugar 4 or 5 ... Draw the saucepan to the side of the stove. Beat them up. When the milk no longer boils pour in the beaten eggs gradually, stir- ring all the time. Place the dish in a saucepan of boiling water over a quick fire for f of an hour. Sprinkle over and serve cold in the dish. 26.- -ENGLISH CUSTARD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Milk Bay-leaves ... Lemon peel... Powdered sugar Eggs well beaten I quart ... 3 I lemon... ilb. ... 6 Pour into a saucepan. 1 Add. Set by the side of the fire for about 20 minutes. When on the point of boiling, strain into a basin to cool. 1 Stir in. Strain again into a jug. Put the jug into a deep saucepan of boiling water, put it on the fire and, stir it one way till it thickens.' Pour into a glass dish, or custard cups.A/VRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 264 27.-CORN-FLOUR CUSTARD. Order. ngre len s. ntitie yuan i les. Method. I... Milk I quart .. Put in a basin. 2... Oorn-flour 3 table- Mix smooth with the milk, pour into spoonsful a saucepan, and stu" the mixture till it boils. •3 o- • • 2 Beat up and add. Of. . . Sugar 2 oz. Add. c J--- Vanilla or otlier Xo taste. Add. Stir the custard over the fire flavouring until sufficiently thick ; it should not boil. 6... When done, strain into a jug or basin, and continue stirring for a short time. hr Serve with stewed fruit or fruit tart. 8... ... The custard may also be baked and served as a plain custard pudding. 28.-PAN0AKES. Orderi Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I. •. Yolks of eggs 3 Beat in a basin. 2... Salt A pinch... Add. o* • • Flour 3 table- Add gradually. spoonsful 4. . . Milk i-pint ... Add. D'' • Whites of e'ggs 3 Beat up and add. 6... Warm a fryingpan about 6 inches in diameter. /,.. 8... Butter -J-oz. ... Melt in the pan. When quite hot, pour in rather more than I gill of the mixture and fry a light brown. Roll the pancake up carefully while still in the fryingpan, then place on a dish. 10... Repeat 8 and 9 until the batter is all cooked, adding a small piece of butter to that remaining in the pan, each time. 11... .Serve V3ry hot. 12... Sugar, and Serve separately. lemon cut in half Note.—Great care must be taken to prevent the pancakes sticking to the pan whilst frying, otherwise they will burn.Add, and serve in a sauce-boat. 5... SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. SECTION XII.—SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 1.—MELTED BUTTER, or sauce blanche. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fine flour .. Cold or tepid water or boiled milk Fresh butter in small pieces Salt Boiled cream Egg Salt Lemon juice.. \ table spoonful ipint ... I table spoonful I yolk ... I pinch ... 3 or 4 drops Put into a saucepan. Pour over gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. Mix well and leave no lumps. Put the saucepan on the fire. Add by degrees, stirring without stopping. Add, still stirring. Simmer the whole \ hour but do not let it boil. Beat a basin then mix in j x^^at up ! the sauce, stirring the same way. I The lemon juice can be omitted J if disliked. Serve in a sauce-boat. 2.-CAPER SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Capers 3 spoons- Chop half of them and keep the rest ful whole. Parsley If liked ... Chop a little very fine. 3-- Put the parsley and capers into a saucepan. 4... Melted butter J pint ... Add, stir well and boil up. SaltA/YI^A'S COOKERV BOOK. 266 3.-APPLE SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. • Quantities. Method. . .... I... Apples 6 Pare, core and slice. 2... Put them into a saucepan. Water I table Add a little to keep them from spoonful burning. 4... Lemon peel ... Add a little. Boil them tender or bake in a dish for an hour. 6... Bruise the apples. 7... Butter and Of each Add and serve. sugar 1 oz. 4.-MINT SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Mint 3 spoons- Wash thoroughly and dry. ful •.• «s« Chop fine. 3... Put into a sauce boat. 4... Sugar Add to taste and let it stand. 5... Vinegar 6 spoons- Pour on to the mint, stir and serve. ful 5.-ONION SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Large onions I lb. Boil and change the water 2 or 3 weight times while they are boiling. 2... When tender chop them on a board. Put them into a saucepan. 4... Butter i^- oz. ... Add. 5- Cream or milk Add 2 table spoonsful. 6... Salt and pepper Add, give them a boil up and serve.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 267 6.—SOUBISE, French onion sauce. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. White onions Boiling water Pepper, salt .. Butter Veal or chicken broth Boiling cream Powdered sugar I pint . A pinch. Peel, cut, and throw into a basin. Pour over till covered. Sprinkle over. Let them stand 10 minutes, then drain. Melt in a saucepan without browning. Put in the onions. Add gradually nearly enough to cover the onions, stirring all the time. Add. Add if liked. Simmer very gently until the sauce thickens, still stirring. Rub through a sieve. Keep hot in a bain-marie. 7-SHRIMP SAUCE. Ingredients. Shrimps 2... Melted butter Anchovy sauce Lemon juice. Quantities. I pint i pint Method. Wash and pick. Make, and while it is simmering put in the shrimps. Add I dessert spoonful. When thoroughly hot take it off the fire. Squeeze in J lemon, stir and serve. 8-OYSTER SAUCE, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Oysters lit 2 doz. ... Scald and strain the liquor into a basin. Wash in cold water and cut off the beards.AJVI^A'S COOKERY BOOK, OYSTER ^k\5Q,^—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Anchovy sauce Half a lemon Butter rolled in flour New milk \ pint Put them into a stewpan and pour the strained liquor over them; heat them slowly, simmer a minute or two, and take them out. Add I spoonful to the liquor. j^Add; stir till they boil, and arc I well mixed; add a blade of mace. Add and stir till the sauce boils. Take out the mace and lemon, and squeeze the lemon juice into the sauce. Put in the oysters, stirring all the time, then simmer till hot, and serve. 9.-L0BSTER SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lobster Break the body, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Melted butter Add and stir. 3- Salt and pepper Add. 4... Cayenne Add, stir all together and heat with- out boiling. ^ lO.-EGG SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eggs Melted butter \ pint Boil till hard. First chop the whites, then the yolks, but neither very fine, and mix them together. Put into a sauce boat. Add the eggs, stir and serve.269 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. ll.-BREAD SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs ^ pint ... Choose stale bread, and grate very nne. 2... Milk J pint ... Boil and pour over the bread crumbs. 3- ... Cover the basm with a plate, and let it stand 30 minutes. 4... Put the soaked crumbs in a small saucepan, and beat with a fork if not quite smooth. Od.lC I spoonful Add. 6... Mace i tea spoonful Add.* 7... Cayenne A pinch... Add. 8... Butter I oz. Add. 9... Put on the fire and stir constantly. 10... Milk or cream 2 table Add gradually and keep stirring. spoonsful II... Boil 4 or 5 minutes, and serve very hot. 12.—BREAD SAUCE, w/M onion. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs 2 pint ... Grate fine and put in a saucepan. 2... Onion I large Add the white part only cut in and mild quarters. 3-- Milk f pint ... Add. 4... Boil for about 50 minutes. 5..- Press through a hair sieve. 6... Put in the saucepan again, and reduce if too thin by boiling. 7... Salt I spoonful Add. 8... Nutmeg I spoonful Add. 9... Butter I oz. Add. 10... Cream 2 or 3 table spoonsful Add. II... Boil a few minutes, and serve very hot.370 MVI^A'S COOKERY BOOK. 13-TO CLARIFY GRAVY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Gravy 2 quarts ^ Skim, strain, and pour hot into a saucepan. 2... Whites of eggs 2 or 3 ... Beat up and add gradually. 3'- Stir on the fire until the gravy nearly boils. 4... Take it off the fire and let it stand a minute. Pour very slowly through a wet cloth into a basin. 6... When cold it will form a clear transparent jelly. 14.-TO TAKE THE FAT OFF SAUCES. Draw the saucepan to the side of the stove, and throw a few drops of cold water into it. The fat can then be easily removed with a spoon. 15.-T0 THICKEN SAUCES. Work up some flour and butter together, then add gradually a few spoonsful of the sauce ; when it is quite mixed and free from lumps add it to the sauce and boil until it thickens sufficiently. 16.-TO THICKEN SAUCES WITH EGG. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Egg I yolk ... Break carefully into a basin quite free from any of the white. 2... Beat with a spoon. 3- Water or A few Add gradually and beat in. lemon juice drops 4... Take the sauce to be thickened off the fire and let it stand 2 minutes. 5... 6... Sauce 2 table spoonsful Take out of the saucepan and mix with the beaten egg. Pour the egg into the sauce, shake, and stir well, heat thoroughly and serve.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 271 17.-~EOUX, coloured. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan. 2... Fine flour ... 2 OZ. Add when the butter is quite hot, and stir quickly with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. 3- Stock or sauce Ipint .,. Pour in gradually with one hand, stirring all the time with the other. Pepper, salt... Add. I- Heat in this any remains of cold meat. 18.-R0UX, white. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 2... Flour 2 OZ. Add and stir quickly. 3--. Veal broth ... 1 pint ... Add at once before the butter and flour have browned. 4... Put the saucepan on hot cinders. 5... Cover it and let it simmer gently for I hour, shaking from time to time. 6... Use with colourless sauces, and for heating remains of poultry and white meats. 19.-TO CURRY MEAT. When you wish to add curry to any stew, sprinkle your meat with curry powder before you put it in the stewpan. The sauce is generally poured over boiled rice which is placed round the dish. The gravy for curry should always be prepared the day before it is required, and care- fully skimmed when cold.272 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 20.--SAUCE FOR ALL PURPOSES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. 2... 3'- 4... 5... 6... 7... Butter Flour Onions Stock Sherry Chives Thyme 2 OZ. I dessert spoonful 2 I pint ... I wine glass A few ... A few sprigs I A little ... A few sprigs ^ lemon... If Hked Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Mix with the butter. > Add, stirring all the time. 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... Bayleaf Tarragon Parsley Lemon peel... Pepper, salt... Lemon juice... ^ Chop fine, mix together, and add to the sauce. Sprinkle over and mix well. Let it simmer at least 2 hours. Strain and keep for use. Add to taste just before serving. This sauce can be served with almost any kind of meat. 21.—SAUCE moittarde* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Butter Mustard Pepper,salt ... Vinegar 2 OZ. I tea spoonful A pinch of each A few drops Melt in a saucepan. Stir into the butter when it is hot. Add. Add. Stir quickly and serve.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 273 22.— SAUCE ESPAGNOLE Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ham 2 slices ... Put in a stewpan. 2... Veal A few slices Add. 3... Carrots 2 Cut in slices and add. 4... Onions 2 Cut in slices and add. Simmer gently over a slow fire. 6... Stock I pint ... Add. 7... vSherry 2 wine Add. glasses 8... Pepper, salt ... Add. g... bweet.herbs... A bunch Add. 10... Cloves 2 or 3 ... Add. II... Simmer for 3 hours. 12... Strain. i3--- Roux Colour with roux. 14.... Reduce and skim. 15... This makes a brown clear sauce to be used as required. 23.-SAUCE ITALIENNE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Parsley Eschalots Mushrooms . Truffles Butter Sherry Stock Pepper, salt , A few sprigs 2 or 3 4 5 2 or 3 2 oz. I wme glass -1 pint Chop fine and mix together. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Throw in the prepared seasoning, stir it well, and brown in the butter. Add still stirring. Add and continue stirring. Add. Boil ^ hour, stirring all the time. Serve in a sauceboat, with roast meat.274 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 24—SAUCE ft la Bechamel. Orde \ Ingredients. I... Butter 2... Flour I'" Cream or boiled milk 4... 5- Veal stock 6... Butter 7... 8... Pepper, salt 9... Quantities. 2 OZ. I dessert spoonful \ pint ... I pmt I oz. Method. Roll together and put in a stewpan. Add gradually and stir till smooth. Put on a slow fire and stir 10 minutes. Add, still stirring. Cut in small pieces and add. Add. Keep the sauce hot in a bain-marie. It should be of the consistence of cream and ivory-white in colour. 25.—SAUCE ft IcL maitve d'hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5.., 6... Butter Pepper, salt... Chopped parsley Chopped eschalots Vinegar or lemon juice A good pinch 2 A few drops Mix, knead into a ball and put on a hot dish. Put the cooked fish or meat on the ball and serve; the heat of the dish will melt the sauce. 26—ANOTHER SAUCE ft la maitve d'hotcl. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I dessert spoonful 2... Water \ pint ... Butter I oz. 4... Chopped I dessert > Mix together and put in a stewpan. parsley spoonful 5- Chopped A pinch... chives 6.. Pepper, saltSAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. ANOTHER SAUCE a la mattre d'hotel—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- Stir with a wooden spoon until it begins to boil. 8... Lemon juice A few Add if liked. drops g... Pour over the meat and serve. 27.-SAVOURY SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vinegar I wine Put in a saucepan. 2... Eschalot glass I Cut in pieces and add* Bay leaves ... 4 or 5 ... Add. 4... Thyme and A few Add. parsley sprigs Add. 5... Cloves 2 6... Pepper A large Add. pinch 7... Salt Add. 8... Boil till the vinegar is reduced to half the quantity. g... Stock fpint ... Add and simmer gently. 10... Butter and I oz. Make a roux in another saucepan. flour II... Strain the sauce on to the roux. 12... Boil for 20 minutes. 28.- —SAUCE (^^^ pauvre homnie. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eschalots 5 or 6 ... Chop fine and put in a saucepan* 2... Parsley A few Chop and add. sprigs 3 Gravy or stock 1 pint ... Pour over. 4... Pepper, salt... Add. 5" Simmer for \ hour until tlie eschalots are tender. T 2MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 276 SAUCE ail pauvre homme—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... 7... Vinegar A few drops Add if liked. Very nice for warming slices of cold beef, mutton, veal, (&e. 29.-SAUCE ROBERT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Onions 5 or 6 ... * Chop fine. 2... Butter 2 oz, Melt in a saucepan on a slow fire. 3-- Put in the chopped onions to brown. 4... Flour I dessert Sprinkle over and stir well. spoonful 5- Stock -| pint ... Add gradually, still stirring. 6.,. Leave the saucepan uncovered and reduce for 20 minutes. 7... Draw the saucepan away from the fire. 8... Mustard I tea spoonful I Mix in a basin, adding the vinegar g... Vinegar I table j drop by drop. spoonful 10... Stir well and add to the sauce. II... Serve in a sauceboat with roast pork. 30.-SAUGE REMOLADE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Eschalots Parsley Tarragon Chervil Chives Salt, pepper Capers A few [ Chop fine separately, and then mi. { in a basiri. Sprinkle over* Add if hk@d.277 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. SAUCE RtuOhk-D-E—icontiimed), Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Mustard I tea Put in another basin. spoonful 9... Olive oil 2 table Add drop by drop, and mix smooth spoonsful with the m.ustard. 10... Add the chopped herbs and mix well. Jl... Yolk of egg I Beat and add if liked. 12.., Serve with cold meat or chicken, &c. 31-TOMATO SAUCE. Order ingredients. C^uantities. Method. I... Tomatoes ... 8 Choose them very ripe. 2... U L LilCiil 111 LjUclILClOj iXll(X UUl. LllClI) Salt and pepper into a saucepan. 3... 4... Bayleaf i'ieaf 1 5- 6... Sliced onion... Bunch of I } Throw on the tomatoes. parsley and 1 J thyme 7... Water Pour over till all is covered. 8... Vinegar 2 or 3 drops Add. 9... Put the saucepan on a slow fire. 10... Stir for 15 minutes. II... Put a sieve over a basin. 12... Put the tomatoes in the sieve. 13... Rub the tomatoes through the sieve. 14... Butter i*ib. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 15... Flour, if liked I table Dredge over, stirring with a wooden 16... Salt and pepper spoonful spoon. Sprinkle over. 17... Pour in the tomato sauce gently, stirring without stopping over a slow fire. 18... Let it thicken uncovered. 19... Stock A few drops Add if the sauce is too thick. 20... Serve in a sauceboat.3fVILA'S COOKERY BOOK, 278 32.—SAUCE heufre noir. Order. Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. Butter 1 lb IVlelt in the frying-pan. 2... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 3"' Stir till the butter browns, but do not let it burn. 4... Parsley ) A very Chop fine and throve in to fry. 5'" Chives ( little 6... Vinegar I tea Add, stirring quickly. spoonful 7... Pour this sauce boiling over fish, or hard boiled eggs. 33.-SAUCE Piqnante. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Tarragon vinegar Eschalots Bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf Pepper corns Stock or gravy I wine glass Chopped 3 or 4 ... 3 table spoonsful Put into a saucepan and boil over n good fire till the vinegar is evaporated. Pour into the saucepan* Let it simmer uncovered. Strain and serve. 34-ANOTHER SAUCE Piqnante, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 2... Flour I OZ. Stir into the butter. 3- • Vinegar I table spoonful 1 Pour over, still stirring. 4... Stock i pint ... Salt and pepper Add.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 279 ANOTHER SAUCE Piquante^[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... 7... 8... 9... Eschalots Pickled gherkins Lemon juice I lemon 1 Chop and add. Let all simmer 15 minutes. Add if liked. 35.-SAUCS HOLLANDAISS. Order. Ingredients,. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... /•" 8... g... 10.,. Butter Flour Salt and pepper Warm water Yolks of eggs Lemon juice or vinegar i lb. ... I table spoonful I pinch ... I table spoonful 2 I tea spoonful Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire, stirring with a wooden spoon. 1 Sprinkle over the butter, stirring. Pour over gradually, still stirring till the sauce is thick^ Put the saucepan at the side of the fire. 1 Beat up in a basin together. Pour the egg gradually into the sauce, stirring with a wooden spoon. Let it thicken, but not boil, or it will turn. Serve over fish. 36—SAUCE hlanquette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 6... Butter Flour Boiling water Pepper and salt Parsley Eschalots 3 oz. ... I table spoonful 1 pint ... A few sprigs 3 or 4 ... Melt in a saucepan on a slow fire. Add and stir well, but do not let it brown Add gradually, still stirring. Sprinkle in. [ Tie in a bunch or chop fine, and r add.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 28o SAUCE hlanqnette—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... 9.., 10... II.,, ... Small white onions Mushrooms Artichokes .., 1 If liked Simmer gently over a slow fire. Heat in the sauce any remains of white meats, as poultry, veal, &c. 1 Add any of these and simmer in the j' sauce* 37—SAUCE hraue. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3'.. 4... 5... 6... 8... 9.., 10... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... Bacon Trimmings of meat Beef or other meat Butter Flour Salt, pepper ... Onions Carrots Parsley Thyme Chives Bayleaf Brandy Stock or white wine Buttered paper \ lb. in slices ijlb. ... 2 OZ. 1 dessert spoonful 2 or 3 ... I or 2 ... ^ A few 1 sprigs \ of each 1 tied to- J gether I wine glassful \ pint .,. 1 Put at the bottom of a shallow j saucepan. Brown with the bacon on a quick fire. Turn the meat and take it out v/hen brown. Add to the bacon in the saucepan. Dredge over. Add and stir till the butter melts. Stick with cloves and add. Cut in slices and add. 1 i [vAdd. Add. Add either if required. Cover the stewpan. Put on the lid, and stew gently 4 hours. Take out the herbs, &c., and skim. Put the meat on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over it through a strainer.2S1 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS, 38,--HORSERADISH SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 39.- Horseradish... Salt Cream -SAUCE P I young... 1 salt spoonful 4 table spoonsful 2 table spoonfuls OIVRAD Scrape, and clean, and grate very fine. Mix with it. Add and mix well. A r1 \wT rlAnfrAAC OtTin cfii* \xr^^1l ii-U-U. Vjj ClU^lCCIS ctllLl SLll well. Put it in a small saucepan, and hold it over the fire. Stir v/ell, and make the sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil. Serve hot or cold. E^ io serve with chicken a la diahle. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... Order. Sherry Stock Eschalot Pepper and salt Parsley 1 wine glass 2 wine glasses I chopped fine A small bunch 40.-SA1 ^ Heat together in an open saucepan and reduce the sauce. Take out the parsley Serve in a sauceboat. JCE Tartare. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- Chervil Eschalot Tarragon 1 Chop fine and mix in a basin.282 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. SAUCE, Tartai'€—{coniimied), Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4.,. Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5-- Mustard I dessert spoonful I Mix together and add the chopped 6... Vinegar I dessert spoonful j herbs by degrees. 7... Yolk of egg... I Beat up and add. 8... Olive oil 2 dessert spoonsful Add drop by drop, stirring all the time. g... Vinegar A few drops Add if the sauce is too thick. 10... Serve with cold meat. 41.-WALNUT CATCHUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Walnuts 100 young Beat and pound in a large mortar. 2... Put them into ajar. 3--- Eschalots chopped 6 oz. 4... Garlic I clove ... |Add. 5-- Vinegar 2 quarts... 6... Salt .ilb. ... 7.., 8... Let this stand for a fortnight, stirring twice a day. Strain off the liquor and put it in a stewpan. 9... Anchovies ... 2 oz. 10... Peppercorns... 2 oz. |Add. II... Mace 1 oz. 12... Cloves Joz. ... 13... Boil for ^ hour, skimming well. 14... Strain off, cork well, and keep in a dry place.283 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 42.-MUSHROOM CATCHUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.,, Mushrooms ... I peck ... I lb. ... Break into a large basin. 2... Salt Strew over the mushrooms. 3'- Place in a cool oven all night. 4... Strain off the liquor, measure it, and let it boil 15 minutes. 5... Pepper I oz. to I 1 quart of liquor Add to the liquor and let it boil ^ 6... Allspice loz.todo, hour. 7... 8... 9-- Ginger Mace ^oz.to do. 2 blades... When cold, bottle and cork. 43.-MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3.., 4... 5-. Note delicious 44. Yolks of eggs Salt and pepper Lemon juice or good vinegar Salad oil Water —This sauce requ 5 with cold meat or -RED CUI 2 1 tea spoonful 2 table spoonsful I tea spoonful ires the grea fi<3h. LEANT 1 Beat up in a basin beginning with \ the eggs and adding the vinegar 1 drop by drop. Add drop by drop, beating all the time for 15 minutes. Add drop by drop when the sauce is thick. test care in making or it will turn. It is JELLY SAUCE, for venison. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... Red currant jelly Port wine I small pot I wine glassful Melt in a saucepan. Add. Simmer gently till hot and serve ia a sauceboat.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 45.-Y/INE '^hXiO-E.Joy iuddlngs. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... Melted butter \ pint Make in a saucepan. 2... Powdered I-^-OZ. .... Add. sugar 3-- Lemon peel \ lemon... Grate very fine and add. 4... Sherry 2 wine Add gradually. glasses 5- Stir till the sauce nearly boils and serve at once. 46-CLEAR WINE SAUCE. Ingredients. Quantities. IMethod. Water Lemon peel Lump sugar, Arrowroot Lemon juice Sherry \ pint ., \ lemon spoonful I lemon I wine glass Put in a saucepan. Cut very thin and add. Add and boil 10 minutes. Take out the lemon peel. Strain the lemon juice on to the arrowroot and mix smooth. Add to the sauce and stir wel|. Take the sauce off the fire. Add gradually, stir well, and serve. 47.~VEAL STUFFING OR FORCEMEAT. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. Bread crumbs Lemon rind ... Chopped herbs Suet or butter Pepper and salt Nutmeg Beaten eggs... 6 oz. \ lemon.. 1 oz. 6 oz. To taste do. 2 yolks .. I Mix all together, and use butter in I preference to suet. J Add to make the mixture into a paste.2S5 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS, 48.-BAaE AND ONION STUFFING^ Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Onions Sage leaves ... Bread crumbs sin It Q Ti rl n^^r>np"" Butter Yolk of egg ... 49.-FC 3 8 5 oz. I oz. I )ECEMS Wash, peel, and boil in tvs^o waters, unless the onions are Spanish, and consequently not so strong. Scald. Chop the onions and leaves fine. Add. ,.. ■ Season well, j Add and mix well. Put into the duck, <S:c* J AT, for chickens^ &c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... 2... 4.,. 5-- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... Sausage meat Veal Bacon Salt, pepper... Sweet herbs... Bread crumbs Hard boiled eggs or Beaten yolks Truffles or mushrooms Butter Gravy Liver of fowl il lb. or 1 lb. ... lib. ... 2 or 3 tea spoonsful ilb. ... 2 2 2 oz. A dessert spoonful If liked.,. 1 Chop fine and pound in a mortar. Add. Chop and add. Soak in gravy and add. [ If boiled, chop the yolks only, and j add. Add chopped fine, mix well together, and heat for A hour in a saucepan. Add. Add. Mix well, and use for stuffing fowls or turkeys. Boil 4 minutes, mince and pound, and add to ingredients i to 3* Notli.—-This forcemeat can also be used for raised pics.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 286 50.-FORCEMEAT BALLS, fov jugged hare. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Bread crumbs Lemon peel... Parsley, thyme Salt, nutmeg Liver of hare Rasped bacon Butter Eschalot Egg Port wine 4 02. i oz. 1 oz. To taste 2 oz. 2J OZ. .. I or 2 if liked I yolk only I wine glass Choose stale bread and grate fine. Pare thin and grate or chop very fine. Chop fine. Add. Boil for 3 minutes and chop fine. Add. Break in small pieces and add. Chop fine and add. Beat with the fingers a little and add. Mix all together till quite smooth. Add if liked and mix well. Form into balls and fry in butter. Note.—This forcemeat can also be used for stuffing a roasted hare, but does not then require to be made into balls and fried. 51.—QUENELLES, Prenck forcemeat balls. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1.*. Veal 1 lb. ... Take off all skin and fat, chop and pound. 2... Veal kidney fat I lb Take away every particle of skin, chop, and pound With the veal to a perfectly Fmooth paste. 3... Bread crumbs \ lb. ... Choose stale bread and grate fine. 4... Boilins: cream 1 pint ... Put the bread crumbs in to soak or veal gravy I hour. 5... Squeeze the crumbs and then dry them over the fire. 6... Pound them alone in a mortar. 7... Add the meat gradually and continue pounding. 8... Eggs 2 Beat the yolks and the whites to- gether and add by degrees while pounding.287 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. QUENELLES, French forcemeat balls—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pepper, salt, nutmecr Flour Boilinf^ water Add. When well mixed and smooth, form into oblong balls with the spoon. Sprinkle on the board and roll the quenelles in. Have ready a large saucepan full. Throw in the quenelles one by one and boil for 3 minutes. Take them out and drain them. Serve in mock-turtle soup or alone with rich gravy, or dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry as croquettes. NoTE.—Quenellcs are also made of remains of cold fowl, game, or fish, and butter can be used in place of veal fat. In poaching quenelles it is well to cook one first to see that the mixture is of the right consistence. It should be light and yet firm ; if it is too heavy add the beaten white of an egg, if, on the contrary, it swells in the water and is limp when taken out, add a little milk to the mixture before poaching any more. 52.-CALFS LIVER FORCEMEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... I lb. ... Cut in small pieces. 2... Lard fib. ... Wash well and melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. 3-- Put in the liver. 4... Salt, pepper... Add a good sprinkling of both. Nutmeg Add, with allspice if liked. 6... Bay leaves ... I or 2 ... Add. 7... 8... Stir well over the fire for about 4 minutes. Let it get cold then pound in a mortar and press through a sieve.288 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 53.—MELTED BUTTER, &c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter oz. ... Melt in a saucepan. 2... Flour IJ oz. ... Stir in gradually. Hot water ... \ pint ... Add gradually. 4... Stir a few minutes over the fire, but do not allow to boil. Note.—For Parsley and Butter, add i dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley to the above, stir i or 2 minutes over the fire, and serve. 54.-0NI0N SAUOE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 6... 7... Onions Cold water ... Salt Melted butter {see above). 55.—H( 4 large ones. A little ... Peel and put into a saucepan. Cover the onions. Add. Boil the onions till tender, about I hour Drain and rub through a sieve. Put into a saucepan. Stir in the onion pulp, warm up, but do not boil. Serve hot. ADISH SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3... 4... 6... 7... Made mustard Salt and pounded sugar Pepper Grated horse- radish. Vinegar Milk or cream \\ tea- spoonsful. \ tea- spoonful. A little ... 3 table- spoonsful. I gill ... About I gill I Put into a basin and mix well with j a wooden spoon. Add and m\iL well. Add gradually. Add gradually, and stif \Vell. Serve cold, with cold roast beef. If with hot beef, warm the sauce in a saucepan, but do not boil*sauce:^ and forcemeats. 289 56.—BROWN SAUCE, to serve with cutlets^ roastgame^&c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... Stock (strong) Water Pepper and salt Corn-flour I gill ... \ pint ... A little ... I table- spoonful. 6... Browning ... I tea- (5<?^No.58,p.29o) spoonful, 7... Mushroom cat- I tea- sup or other spoonful, relish. Note.—This sauce is very useful for Put into a saucepan. Add. Add, boil up. Put into a basin. Pour the contents ot the saucepan very gradually on to the corn-flour, stir all the time. Add. Add, stir, return to the saucepan, and bring to the boiling point. The sauce is then ready to serve. hash, mince, or any cold meat cookery. 57.-SAUOE PIQUANTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Stock (strong) I gill ... J pint ... Put into a saucepan. 2... Water Add. 3--. Savoury relish I dessert- Add. spoonful. 4... Peppercorns... 6 white and Crush and add. 3 black 5... Eschalot, chopped. I small teaspoonful Add. 6... Cloves 2 Add. 7... 8... Salt A little ... Add. Stir to mix the ingredients, and allow to simmer \ to i hour. 9... Corn-flour ... I table- Put into a basin. spoonfnl 10... Strain the gravy on to it, gradually, stirring all the time. II... Browning I tea- spoonful. Add. 12... Chopped pars- ley. I dessert- spoonful. Add, IS- Grated lemon I tea- Add. rind. spoonful. 14... Return to the saucepan, stir until the sauce boils. 15... Serve in ^ tureen, or poured over meat.290 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 58.—BROWNING, for colouring sauces^ etc. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... Brown or cheap loaf sugar. Cold water. Boiling water Jib. ... I gill ... fpint ... Put into an old saucepan, or one kept on purpose for making browning. Add, and place the saucepan over a slow fire ; stir until the sugar becomes a very dark brown. Add, stirring all the time. Pour out of the saucepan ; when cold, put into a bottle, and cork. 59 —CORN-FLOUR AND RIZINE AS THICKENING. Corn-flour and Rizine are both invaluable for thickening soups, savoury and sweet sauces, and gravies ot all kinds. Both Corn-flour and Rizine have entirely superseded flour for the above-mentioned purposes, possessing such a far more delicate flavour, and therefore avoiding any possibility of the unpleasant flavour of paste, which is so apt to occur when ordinary flour is used for thickening hashes, &c. 60.-ASPIC JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leaf gelatine... I oz. Soak in cold water. 2... Celery I stick ... Put into a saucepan. 3--- Bay leaf I Add. 4... Peppercorns... 6 white ... Crush and add. 5... Taragon vine- I table- Add. gar spoonful \ lemon... 6... Lemon rind ... Add. 7... Cold water ... I pint ... Add, bring to the boil; simmer 15 or20 minutes ; strain on to the dissolved gelatine, and return to the saucepan. 8... Stock I table- Add. (s^^ No. 60, Sec. I.) spoonful 9... White of egg I 1 Add. Beat well with an egg whisk Shells 2 J until quite clear, then strain through a very fine cloth or napkin which must previously have been dipped into hot water and wrung out. When the jeily is cold it can be cut into any shape and used for de- corating cold meats,291 PASTRY, SECTION XIIL—PASTRY. ON MAKING PASTRY. As the heat of your oven must be regulated by what you intend to bake, the following rules should be carefully attended to:— 1. Light paste requires a moderate oven, but not too slow, as that will deprive it of the light appearance it should have, and too quick an oven will catch and burn it, without giving it time to rise. 2. Tarts that are iced require a slow oven, or the ice will be brown before the paste is properly baked. 3. Raised pies must have a quick oven, and be well closed up, or the pie will fall in at the sides; and it should have no water put in till just before you put it in the oven, or the crust will look sodden. 1.-CRISP PASTE FOR TARTS. 1. Mix I oz. of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, with i lb. of fine flour, aiid make into a stiff paste with a gill of boiling cream or milk. 2. Work 3 oz. of butter into it. 3. Roll it very thin and make your tarts or pie-crust. 4. Ice your paste by beating the white of an egg a little, and rubbing it over the paste with a feather. 2.--RICH PUFF PASTE. u Rub a pound of butter very fine into a quarter of a peck of flour. 2. Make it into a light paste with cold water, just stiff enough to work it. 3. Roll it out to the thickness of a five-shilling piece, and put a layer of butter all over it. 4. Sprinkle on a little flour, double it up, and roll it out again. 5. Double it and roll it out seven or eight times, when it will be fit for all sorts of pies and tarts that require a puff paste. 3.-LIGHT PASTE FOR TARTS. T. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and mix it with as much water as will make | lb. of flour into a tolerably stiff paste. 2. Roll it out very thin; lay 3 oz. of butter in thin pieces upon it and dredge it with a little more flour. 3. Roll it up tight, then roll it out again, and continue until ^ lb. each of butter and flour be used. 4. Cut it into square pieces, and make your tarts. This will require a quicker oven than crisp paste. u 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 292 4.-SUET CRUST. I. Shred lo oz. suet and chop fine, and mix it with i lb. flour, and water into a stiff paste. 5.-DRIPPING PASTE. J. Boil the dripping in a good quantity of water for 4 or 5 minutes to take the strength off it, then use instead of butter according to the preceding receipts. 6.-AMERICAN PUFF PASTE. 1. Work { lb. of butter into i lb. of flour until it is like sand. 2. Take 2 tea spoonsful of cream of tartar, and i tea spoonful of carbonate of soda, rub them through a sieve and add them to the flour. 3. Add enough cold water to bind and work it smooth. 4. Roll the paste to J inch thick. 5. Spread \ lb. of butter over, then fold it up and roll it out again. 6. Repeat No. 5 twice till you have used i lb. of butter. 7. Fold and roll for the last time. 7.-PASTE FOR MEAT PIES. I. Work I lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, until it crumbles, z. Add a small teaspoonful of salt. 3. Beat up the yolks of 4 eggs with half-a-pint of cold water. 4. Strain and mix with the flour to a firm paste. 5. Roll it out to the required thickness. 8.-FRENCH PUFF PASTE. 1. Put I lb. of flour on the paste board, and make a hole in the centre. 2. Put i teaspoonful of salt, and wine glassful of water into the hole. 3. Work the flour in with the right hand, and add another wine glassful of water gradually with the left hand. 4. Work the paste till it is quite smooth and does not stick to the board or the fingers. 5. Make the paste into a ball, and roll and flatten it with the hands. 6. Cover it with a cloth, and put it aside in a very cool place for ^ houi. In hot weather stand it over ice. 7. Flour the board and put the paste on it, then roll it into an oblong shape. 8. Put in the middle f lb. of firm, well washed and squeezed butter.PASTRY. FRENCH PUFF FASrE—(cojitinued). g. In summer the butter should be kept on ice, till wanted. 10. Fold the ends of the paste over the butter, and form a square mass. 11. Flatten it again into an oblong shape, and fold it in three from the r ends. 12. Let it stand lo minutes. 13. Repeat this folding and flattening 6 times in summer, and 7 times in winter, always letting it stand 10 minutes between whiles. 14. Flour the board lightly each time. 15. After the last time of folding, let it stand 5 minutes, and it is then ready for use. 9—GERMAN PASTE, for fruit tarts. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour i^lb. ... Dry and put in a large basin. 2... Make a hole in the middle. 4... Yeast Warm milk ... 3 table spoonsful A pint ... 1 Mix together and then work in part r of the flour in the basin. 5- Cover the basin, and let it stand near the fire to rise. 6... Butter 1 lb. ... I Melt over the fire. 7... Egg Beat and add to the butter. 8... Salt A pinch ... Add. g... Mix with the dough and knead well. 10... Miik Add a little if required in working the paste. II... Roll it out. 12... Butter Butter a shallow baking dish, and put the paste on it. 13... Fruit Put on a thick layer of fruit. 14... Let the tart stand for a time. 15... Bake in a hot oven. ^ 16... Powdered sugar Sprinkle over and serve. Note.—Cherries, plums of all kinds, and apples are the fruits usually employed for these tarts. Cherries are put on whole close together; plums are halved and stoned, and put on edgeways; apples are peeled, cored, and cut as for a tart, and also put on the paste edgeways.294 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 10—GERMAN PASTE, without yeast. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Put in a large basin. 2... Butter h lb. ... Work into the flour. Powdered i lb. ... Add by degrees and work in. sugar 4... Eggs 2 Beat and add, and mix well. 5- Roll out the paste and use for open fruit tarts. ll.-PLAIN YEAST PASTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk Ipint ... Make it luke-warm. 2... Butter 2 oz. Add. 3-- Sugar ^ cupful Add. 4... Yeast I table Add. spoonful Egg I Add. 6... Flour Work flour into these until you have a good paste. 7.,. Cover with a cloth and put it aside to rise. 8... When risen roll it out thin and use for open fruit tarts. 12-PASTE FOR CUSTARDS. 1. Rub 6 oz. of butter into ^ lb. of flour. 2. Mix it into a paste with 2 beaten eggs and 3 table spoonsful of cream. 3. Let it stand 4 hour. 4. Work it up and roll it out very thin for use. 13.-TO GLAZE PASTRY. To glaze meat pies beat up the yolk of an egg only, or the yolk and white together if a lighter colour be desired, and brush over the paste w.th a paste brush before baking.PASTRY. 14.--TO ICE PASTRY. Moisten the paste before baking with cold water, and sprinkle finely powdered sugar over it. Another way is to take the tart from the oven when nearly baked, brush it with frothed white of egg, sprinkle sifted sugar over it and a few drops of cold water, and put it back in the oven for a minute or two to set. 15-GAME PIE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Game Salt Pepper Pounded mace Allspice Veal Forcemeat Truffles Bacon or ham Paste Yolk of egg . Gravy A few thin slices If liked ... Thin slices Any kind of game can be used. Bone the birds, and stuff them with forcemeat. Mix together, and season the birds well with the mixture. Season and put in the buttered mould. Put a layer over the veal. Put in the birds, and fill up all the spaces with forcemeat. Chop and add to fill the corners. Put over the top. Make a good paste to cover the pie. Wet the edges of the mould, put on the cover, and pinch the edges together. Decorate the top with leaves. Brush over the top. Bake in a moderate oven 4 hours. Make a good strong gravy from the bones. When the pie is cooked make a hole in the top, and pour in a little gravy. It must be strong enough to form a firm jelly when cold. Cover the hole with a leaf of paste. Serve cold. Note. larded. —Mushrooms can be added, if liked, and the fleshy parts of the birds can be Poultry can be used for the pie as well as game.296 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 16.-P0RCEMEAT FOR GAME PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Veal 6 oz. Take off all skin and fat, and cut in dice, 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 3- Chopped psrsley I tea spoonful Put into saucepan. A... Chopped thyme ^ tea spoonful Add. J'" Salt i tea spoonful Add. 6... Grated lemon peel spoonful Add. /... Nutmeg ... I pinch ... Add. 8... Cayenne •.. I pinch ... Add. y... Mace ... I pinch ... Add. 10... Put in the veal, and stew very gently for 12 or 15 minutes, then take out the veal. II... Bread crumbs 2 oz, ... Put in the saucepan. Let them absorb all the gravy, and stir till quite dry. Yolk of egg ... I ... Beat and add to the bread crumbs, while hot. 14... Put aside the mixture to cool. 15... Livers of birds Boil separately or stew with the veal. 16... Mushrooms ... Ifliked ... Chop and stew with the veal. 17... Mince the veal very fine. 18... Pound together the veal, livers and mushrooms. 19... Add the bread when cold, and beat well. 20... Butter i^ oz. ... Add and beat in. 21... Bacon 2 oz. Rasp and add. 22... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and add to the mixture. 23... Take the forcemeat out of the mortal , i and set it aside to cool.PASTRY. 17.-PASTE FOR GAME PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Dry it well. 2... Butter ilb. ... Work into the flour. 3.- Salt i tea Add. spoonful 4... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up. 5"' Water ipint ... Mix with the beaten up eggs. 6... Add gradually to the flour and butter, and work into a good paste. 18.-PIGEON PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Paste Lay a rim round the sides and edge of a pie-dish. 2... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over the bottom. Rump steak ... I lb. thin Put in the dish. 4... Pigeons 3 Pick and draw, wash clean, cut off" the feet and press the legs to the sides. 5- Butter, salt, Put in the inside of each pigeon. and pepper 6... Lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them. 7... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 8... Stock or water I wine Pour over. glass 9... Paste Lay thin over the top, and with a brush wet it all over. 10... Puff" paste ... ^ inch Put it at the top, cut it close to the thick dish. II... Beaten egg ... I yolk ... Brush over the top. 12... Ornament the top. 13... Bake it. 14... Good gravy ... Pour in when done.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 19-LARK PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Larks 12 Pick and draw. 2... Veal stuffing Fill the inside of each bird. 3 See the receipt for Pigeon Pie for the remaining operations. 20.-CHI0KEN PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Chickens Salt, cayenne, mace, and nutmeg Sausage meat, or forcemeat Hard boiled eggs Minced herbs Water or broth Paste I lb. 2 or 3 2 tea spoonsful \ pint .. Cut into joints, skin and take out the bones. Mix together and sprinkle over the joints. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie I dish. Put in the joints of chicken. Add another layer of sausage meat or forcemeat. Cut in slices and place amongst the meat. Add if liked. Fill the dish with alternate layers of chicken and forcemeat. Moisten with water, or with broth made by boiling down the bones, &c., of the chickens. Cover with paste and bake 2 hours. Glaze and serve hot or cold. 21.-RABBIT PIE. This is made in the same way as chicken pie. A few chopped eschalots may be added, if liked. If the crust browns too quickly it should be covered with a sheet of white paper.299 PASTRY. 22-VEAL AND HAM PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Veal I^lb. ... Cut in small slices. 2... Ham fib. ... Put a layer at the bottom of a pie dish. 3- Pepper, salt, spice Sweet herbs... 1 Mix and sprinkle over the meat. 4... If liked ... Chop fine and add. 5... Put alternate layers of ham and veal until the dish is three parts full. 6... Eggs 4 Beat very slightly. 7... 8... Water Paste A tea cupful Add to the eggs and pour the mixture into the dish. Cover with paste and bake i hour. 9... Stand the dish on the top of the oven for 2 hours longer, that the meat may simmer gently and become very tender. TO... Cover the paste with paper if it browns too quickly. II... Glaze and serve hot or cold. 23.~RUMP STEAK PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rump steak... 2 lbs. Take off the skin and nearly all the fat, and beat with the roller. 2... Cut it in nice pieces. 3- Salt, pepper, Mix and sprinkle over the pieces of cayenne meat. 4... Lay them in a pie dish. 5--- Mutton 2 or 3 if Skin, cut in pieces and add. kidneys Hked 6... Mushrooms ... I dozen Add. small 7... Eschalots A few Chop and add, if liked. 8... Water or stock I tea Add. cupful 9... Paste Cover with paste, glaze and bake foi hours. Note.—Bearded oysters may be used in place of the kidneys, and their liquor added to the gravy. The eschalots should then be omitted.300 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 24-MUTTON PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Small loin of mutton 2 lbs. ... Take off all the fat, and divide the joint into neat cutlets. 2... Mutton 2 or 3 ... Skin, cut in pieces, and add. kidneys 3- Salt, pepper, and cayenne 4... Sweet herbs... 3 tea spoonsful minced Mix together, and sprinkle over the cutlets. 5... Eschalots ... 2 or 3 minced 6... Put the cutlets and kidneys in a pie dish with all the seasoning that is left. 7... Cold water ... I wine Add a little to make the gravy. glass 8... Paste Cover the dish, make a hole in ihe centre, glaze and bake 2 hours. 25.-PORK PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pork Salt, pepper... Cayenne Chopped sage Flour Lard Milk Water 3 lbs. ... To taste A pinch... I tea spoonful I lb. ... 5 oz. ... ^ tea cupful h tea cupful Cut in small pieces quite free from bone and skin. Mix together, omitting the sage if not liked, and sprinkle over the meat. Work part of the lard into the ) flour. 1^ Put on the fire, add the rest of the I lard, and boil 10 minutes. Pour this boiling on the flour and knead till quite smooth. Keep it warm all the time. Shape the raised mould with the licinds round a warm jam pot.PASTRY. 4... PORK VIE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... 13... 14... 15... Water A few spoonsful Take out the jam pot and fill the pie with the meat. Add. Put on the paste cover, close the edges and trim them. Bake in a slow oven. 26.-CORNISH MEAT PASTIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Good dripping paste Mutton or beef Potatoes Pepper, salt... See receipt No. 5. 2... 3--- 4... 5-- 6... 7... ii*'lb. i^lb. ... Roll it out and cut in large rounds. Cut in small pieces and put a layer on one-half of each round. Wash and peel, cut in thin slices, and mix with the meat. Sprinkle over. Fold the paste over the meat, wet the edges and press them together. Bake and serve hot. 27-SAUSAGE ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sausage meat li lb. ... Form into nicely shaped rolls. 2... Puff paste ... Fold each roll in paste. 3--- Yolk of egg ... I Beat and wash the rolls over. Bake in a modcrr ovea.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28.-MEAT ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. irllll p3,St6 ••• A 11 A small quantity iYJ.clK.C do dUCdUy UCoCllUCU* 2... Cold fowl or I lb. ... Mince and pound. veal g CayennC} S3.lt Add. Butter 1 the weight A.dd £ind pound to a smooth paste. 5... Forcemeat ... Make as described at page 272. 6... Make the forcemeat into small rolls. 7... 8... Water Use a little to moisten the pounded meat. Wrap each forcemeat roll round with pounded meat till a good size. 9... Fold each roll in puff paste. 10... Bake for 20 minutes. 29.-OYSTER PATTIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Puff paste ... Prepare the patties as described at 30, page 287. Trim an'd beard them; if large, cut 2... Oysters 2 doz. ... them. 3-.. Butter Flour I oz. I tea spoonful 1 Mix together very smooth over a 4... r slow fire, and simmer gently. 5--- Salt 6... Mace I Add. 7... Cayenne 8... Cream 2 or 3 tea Add gradually and boil. spoonsful 9... Liquor of Strain and add. oysters 10... Put in the oysters and keep at boiling point for 2 minutes. II... Put this mixture in the patties. 12... Put on the covers and serve. Note.—The white meat of cold fowls, turkeys, and pheasants, or veal minced and heated in Bechamel sauce can be used for patties; other kinds of cold roast game ar^ heated in, Sauce Espagnole or good brown gravy.PASTRY. 303 30.-SMALL VOLS-AU-VENT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4.*. 5-" 6... 7... 8... Puff paste ... Make the paste very light, and roll out ^ inch thick. With one tin cut out the number required. Take a smaller tin, wet the edge and take out the paste from the centre of each patty. Cover with this paste and bake about 12 minutes. When done, remove the tops with a knife. Scoop out the crumb from the inside of the patties. Fill the patties with oysters, lobster, or chicken, dressed with white sauce. Put on the covers and serve hot. 31.~FRUIT TARTS. Order. Ingredients.- Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3..- 4... 5- 6... 7... Red currants and rasp- berries, or cherries, or gooseberries ■ Pick, clean, and put into a pie-dish with moist sugar. Wet the edge of the dish. Place a band of puff-paste round it. and wet that too. Cover the top with puff paste. pressing it round the edge with your thumbs. Cut off the over hanging paste close to the edge. Make nicks in the paste all round the edge with the blunt side of a knife. Ice with beaten white of egg, if liked, and ornament the top. Note.—Inexperienced cooks should not ice their tarts, as it requires great skill i' regulating the oven to prevent them burning when icedMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 304 32.-RHUBARB TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rhubarb Cut off the leaves, strip off the out- stalks side skin, and cut the sticks into ^ inch lengths. 2... See preceding receipt for the remain- ing operations. 33.-ORANBERRY TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cranberries ... I quart ... Pick them well, and put them into a stewpan. 2... Water I pint ... Add. 3-- Moist sugar ... I lb. ... Add. 4... Stew gently until they are soft. Mash with a silver spoon. 6... Turn into a pie dish to get cold. 7 •" For remaining operations see receipt for Fruit Tarts. 3 4.-APPLE TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Butter Rub a pie dish over. 2... Cooking Pare and cut into small pieces. apples 3- Put them into a pie dish and fill it. 4... Moist sugar... i'ii). Add. 5... Cloves 3 or 4 ... Add if liked. 6... Grated lemon I lemon peel 1 Add. 7... Water I wine glass ... i 8... Cover with paste as directed in receipt for Fruit Tarts,PASTRY. 35.-MINCE PIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter and lay a thin paste over your pattipans. 2... Fill them with mincemeat. 3- Lay on a covering of paste and trim nicely round the edge. 36.-MINCEMEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Suet 3 lbs. ... Chop fine. 2... Stoned raisins 2 lbs. ... Do. 3-- Currants 2 lbs. ... Picked, washed, rubbed, and dried at the fire. 4... Good apples... 50 Pare, core, and chop fine. Powered i lb. ... sugar a... Mace I oz. 7... Cloves i oz. If liked. 8... Grated nut- 2 9... meg Put all together in an earthen pan. 10... Brandy ipint ... Add. II... Mix up well with a wooden spoon and it will keep good for months. 12... Candied citron Add to each pie when you bake it, and orange but do not put any in the mince- meat till you use it. 37.~TARTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rich puff paste Butter your patty pans and lay a thin layer of paste upon them. 2... Preserve Fill the hollow with any preserve 5^ou please. 3- Trim the edges of the paste and bake lightly. 4... Serve them hot or cold. xMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3o6 38.-JAM SANDWICHES. Order. I..C Ingredients. Quantities. Puff paste 2...[ Butter 4- Preserve Method. Make as in receipt 2, and roll out thin. Rub on a tin. Lay half the paste on the tin. Put a layer of any kind of preserve on the paste. Cover the preserve with the remainder of the paste. Press the edges togethei, then press slightly all over. Mark it in equal divisions. Bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Break in neat oblong sandwiches at the marks, and serve with powdered sugar on the top. 39.—APPLE TART, German recipe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples I lb. ... Peel, core, and cut them in slices, and put them in a saucepan. 2... Pounded sugar 4 oz. Add. 3- Sherry I wine Add. glass 4... Water 2 wine Add and stew gently till nearly glasses tender. 5- Raisins 4 oz. Stone, cut in quarters and add. 6... Almonds 4 oz. Chop fine and add. 7... Lemon juice If liked ... Add. 8... Candied peel 2 oz. Add in small pieces. 9... Nutmeg Grate a little over. 10... Lemon peel ... Ifliked Grate and add. II... Mix well. 12... Puff paste ... Line a shallow buttered dish. 13... Put in the apple mixture. 14... Cover with paste, close and tiini the edges. 15... White of egg I Ice the top. 16... Bake in a slow oven | hour.PASTRY. X 2 40-FRENCH TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pun paste Make a rich pun paste, and roll it out very thin. 2... Cut it in from 6 to 9 pieces of equal size. 3--- ... Bake them all divided from each other. 4... ... When done, take them out, and let LllClil $4^^ dJiU. 5'" Preserve Spread a layer of a different kind on each, piece of paste. 6... Pile them up one above another. 7... Trim the edges with a knife. S... White of egg I Beat to a froth. g... Pounded sugar 2 OZ. Add gradully and beat in. 10... Lemon juice I lemon... Add and beat all together for \ hour. II... Garnish the tart with the whipped froth. 12... Preserved Use to ornament the tart. fruits 13... Dry in a warm oven. 41.-WINDB0R PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 2 Weigh and set aside. 2... Pounded ] Same sugar 1 weight of 3-- Butter ( each as 4... Flour ) the eggs Beat the butter to a cream. 6 .. Dredge in the flour and sugar, and stir well. 7... Salt A pinch... Add. b... Beat up the eggs and add. g... Beat the whole for 10 minutes. 10... Butter Rub over a shallow baking tin,MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, WINDSOR PASTRY—(continued). Order. — Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Put in the paste, and bake for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 12... When done let it get cold. 13- Compote of Put a layer of any nice compote on fruit the pastry. 14... Cream 1 pint ... Pour over and serve. AO TVTTT.TT lYXxJLlXV (^rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 3 Beat v^ell. 2... Milk I pint Add to the eggs and stir. 3- Salt . I pinch ... Add. A... Flour Add enough to make a thick smooth batter. 5- Boiling fat ... Fry the pancakes. 6... Turn skilfully. 7- Lemon and Serve v/ith the pancakes, which should sugar be very hot. 43.—DAMPFNUDELN, or Steamed Dumplings Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour 2J pints... Put in a basin and make a hole in the centre. 2... Yeast I table spoonful 1 Mix a portion of the flour with these 3"* Warm milk ... I tea j and let it stand. cupful 4... Eggs 3 Beat up. 5... Butter 3 oz. ... Clarify and mix with the eggs. 6... Work well into the dough. 7... Form the dough into small dumplings and put them aside to rise. 8... Milk I tea Warm in a deep earthen pan. cupful 9... Butter I oz. Add to the milk. 10... When hot put in the dumplings near together, but not touching.PASTRY, 309 DAMPFNUDELN, or Steamed Dumplings—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... 13... 14... Powdered sugar Put on a well fitting cover. Put hot coals on the cover. Steam for ^ hour. Sprinkle over and serve very hot with thin custard, or with stewed fruit. 44.—APPLE FRITTERS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... Apples Powdered sugar Grated lemon peel Brandy 8 i lb. ... I I wine glass Peel, take out the core and cut into thin slices. 1 Pour over the apples and let them j soak. 45.—BATTER for above. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Fine flour ... Warm water Brandy Egg ••• 2 table spoonsful I table spoonful I Put into a basin. Pour in drop by drop, mixing with a wooden spoon. Make a hole in the middle of this thick paste. Pour into the hole and mix it in tl,v', paste. Beat the white and yolk separate!; , and mix it in the paste as you did the brandy.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Serve hot or cold. 12... BATTER for above—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. lO... Salt I pinch ... Add. II... Stir till you have a thick smooth batter. 12... Butter or lard Melt in a frying-pan over a gentle fire till it is a good colour. 13... Take a slice of apple, dip it in the batter, then in the boiling fat, move the pan all the time. 14... Turn the fritter with the skimmer and let it fry a nice brown. 15... Make all the fritters in the same way, drain, and serve them up hot. 46.-PRIED PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour ^Ib. ... Sift and put on the paste board, and make a hole in the middle. 2... Salt A pinch... 3-- Butter iib. ... 1 Work the butter to a cream, with 4... Brandy I spoonful \ the other ingredients, and put all 5- Orange flower I spoon'V.l 1 in the hole in the flour. water 6... Cream Use enough to make the whole into a good paste; work it well and let it stand 3 hours. 7... 8... Roll the paste out thin. Cut it in small pieces of diffeiert shapes. 9... Fry them a nice brown in butter. 10... Sifted sugar... II... Powdered cinnamon 1 Mix and sprinkle over them,PASTRY. 47.—PUFF PASTE for Fruit Tarts, &c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. Turn on to a paste board. 2... Baking powder I dessert spoonful Add. 3--- Butter 2 oz. 4... Cla.rified drip- ping > Rub into the flour. 5... 6... Water Add to make a smooth paste. Roll out to the thickness of about ^ inch, making it oblong shape, with square corners. 7... Butter 2 oz. 8... Clarified drip- 2 oz. 1 Place in small pieces over the pastry. ping 9... Fold up, taking great care the edges- meet quite evenly. 10... Roll out 3 or 4 times, and place in a cool larder for ^ hour. II... Roll out for the last time to about J inch thick. The pastry is then ready for covering tarts, or for any- thing else it may be required. Note.—A little of the flour should be put aside in the first instance to be used for any dredging required during the process of making the pastry. 48.—TURNOVERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Pastry Stewed fruit or jam of any kind Yolk of egg .., I dessert spoonful heaped up I Made according to above recipe. Cut into oblong pieces about 5 inches by 3, or larger. Place in the middle. Fold the pastry over, and pinch the edges together. Brush over the turnovers. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes,MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 312 49.—CHEESE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter Jib. ... Beat to a cream. 2... Castor sugar... ilb. ... Add. 3--. Lemon juice ... I lemon... Add. 4... Crystal rizine iib. ... Add. 5- Eggs 2 Whisk thoroughly, and add to the other ingredients. 6... Puff-paste ... Line some patty-pans. 7... Fill with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. 50.—GIBLET PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vjrl Diets ... From one goose Place all, 'with the exception of the liver, in a basin, and pour boiling water over them to blanch. 2... Leave them a few minutes, then skin. 3- • • Place them in a stewpan. A Onion A few Add. shreds. 5... Herbs I tea- Add. spoonful. 6... Pepper corns 6 white... Crush and add. 7... 8... Cloves 3 Add. Salt A little ... Add. 9... Beef steak ... 2 lb. Beat well, cut into pieces about \\ inch square, and add to the other ingredients. 10... Cold water ... Pour over till the meat is covered. II... Bring to the boil, then simmer gently \ an hour. 12... Take out the giblets and steak, place in a pie-dish. 13... Strain the gravy over. 14... Puff-paste ... Cover over the top. Make a small hole in the centre. Ornament with leaves cut in pastry. 15... Yolk of egg ... I Brush over. 16... Bake in a moderate oven I J- hours. 17... Hot water or I'gill Pour in through hole in the top \ hour stock before the pie has finished cooking. 18... ... Serve cold ; garnish with parsley.313 PUDDINGS. SECTION XIV.—PUDDINGS. l.-PUDDINGS. When you boil your puddings take particular care that your cloth be clean, and remember to dip it in boiling water; flour it well and give it a shake before you put your pudding into it. If it be a bread pudding, tie it loose, but tie it tight if it be a batter pudding. If you boil it in a basin, butter the basin and boil the pudding in plenty of water. Turn it often and do not cover the pan; when it is done enough take it up in the basin and let it stand a few minutes to cool. Then untie the string, wrap the cloth round the basin, lay your dish over it, and turn the pudding out. 2.-BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef-Steak ... lb. ... Cut into small pieces and leave a very little fat. 2... Flour Sprinkle over each piece. 3- Pepper and salt Do. 4... Suet paste ... Line a pudding basin ^ inch thick, first buttering your basin. 5-- Fill with pieces of beef. 6... Put a thick crust at the top and tie it up in a cloth. Put it in the saucepan when the water boils, and boil 3 hours. 7... 3-YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Ingredients. Fine flour Eggs Salt Milk Butter Quantities. 4 table spoonsful 4 I pinch ... I pint ... Method. Beat up together for 15 minutes. Add and mix well. Rub over a dripping pan. Either let it cook under a joint while it is roasting, or bake in the oven. When it is brown cut it into square pieces and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 314 4-PLUM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Suet I lb. ... Chop but not too fine. 2... Currants do. Wash clean. Raisins do. Stone. 4... Yolks of eggs 8 Beat well. 6... Whites of eggs Nutmeg 4 Do. Grate. 7... Bread crumbs fib. ... 8... Orange peel ilb. ... Chop. and citron 9... Brandy I wine glass 10... Milk I pint ... II Mix all the dry ingredients together, then add the milk, beaten eggs and brandy. 12... When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured cloth over and boil it 6 hours. 5.-BAKED PLUM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- Flour Beef suet Sultanas f lb. ... Ub. ... I lb. ... I Chop the suet fine, and mix t all together. 4... Salt A pinch... Add. Nutmeg i tea Grate and add. spoonful 6... Eggs 3 Beat and add. 7... Milk A little ... Add as required, to moisten the pudding. 8... Stir well, and pour into a buttered pie dish. 9... Bake i^ hours. 10... Turn it out of the dish before serving. Note.—A little candied peel can be added if liked.PUDDINGS. 315 6.-BREAD PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3'-- 4... 5- 6... Pieces of bread Boiling milk or water Moist sugar ... Nutmeg Grated lemon peel • Raisins or currants Eggs ... 3 oz. ... To taste I lemon... Take crumb or crust, cut it into very y small pieces, and soak in boiling 1 milk or water. Drain and beat smooth. 1 }Add and mix well together. /... 8... 9... 1 lb. 3 J Beat well and add. Bake or boil in a buttered pie dish or basin. 7,- -FRUIT PUDDINGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2 .. 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... Suet paste ... Apples, gooseberries, currants, &c., &c. Sugar To taste Line a well buttered basin. Eill the basin. Add. Moisten the edges of the paste, and cover the top. Press it well together, and trim the edges. Tie up in a floured cloth. Put it into boiling water. See receipt for Puddings in general. 8.-BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Large apples 6 Peel and take out the core. 2... Sugar and Fill up the hollow centres. butter 3- Place them in a pie dish. 4.., Batter Cover with light batter and bake.3i6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 9.- APPLE DUMPLINGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... Apples Good paste ... Melted butter Pare, take out the core and fill the hole with sugar. Cover the apple. Tie in a cloth and boil | hour. Pour over, if liked, when you serve them. 10- GOOSEBERRY POOL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5-- 6... Green goose- berries Sugar Butter Beaten eggs... I pint ... ^Ib. ... i lb. ... 4 Scald in water till soft. Put them into a sieve to drain, and when cold work them through with a wooden spoon. (Add and beat all together 15 f minutes. Pour into a pie dish and bake J hour. Note.—4 oz. of Macaroni biscuits are a delicious addition to this dish. 11.-ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Suet crust ... Roll out rather thin. 2... Any preserve Spread over the paste, leaving a small margin of paste. 3-" Roll it round, and tie in a floured cloth. 4... Put it in boiling water and boil 2 hours.317 PUDDINGS. 12-BAKED ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5 Good short crust Treacle Bread crumbs Currants i pint ... i lb. ... i lb. ... Roll out thin. Put on a layer. Add a layer on the treacled Wash, dry, and add over the rest. Roll up the pudding and bake. 13.-BFtEAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- A 5... 6... Thin slices of bread and butter Cold milk ... Powdered sugar Beaten eggs... Currants pint ... 4 table spoonsful 3 k lb. ... Put into a deep pie dish and half fill it. ) > Mix all together, ) Pour into the dish over the bread and butter, and bake in a quick oven. Sprinkle over the top if liked. 14.-BREAD AND CHEESE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 6... 7 8... g... Bread crumbs Boiling milk... Grated cheese Pepper and salt Egg Butter I large cupful ^pint ... 3 oz. ... I I oz. Choose stale bread and crumble fine. Pour over the crumbs and let them soak. Beat up the crumbs with a fork. Mix with the crumbs. Add. Beat up and add to the crumbs, etc Put the mixture in a small pie dish. Clarify and pour over. Bake in a moderate oven and serve very hot.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 15.-BREAD AND BUTTER SOUFFLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread, and ) 2 thin ( Butter the slices of bread and put 2... Butter j slices ( one at the bottom of a pie dish. 3"' Jam Put a layer on the slice of bread and butter. 4... ... ... Put on the other slice of bread. 5-- Milk I pint ... Put in a basin. 6... Powdered 2 oz. Add. sugar 7... Eggs 2 Beat and add to the milk. 8... Pour the mixture over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven. g... When the pudding has risen like a souffle, serve at once very hot. 16.-B0MBAY PUDDING. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stale bread ... Stewed fruit... I quart .. Custard I pint Cut in slices about ^ inch thick with- out any crust. Put a round piece of bread at the bottom of a pudding basin, and line the sides of the basin with fingers of bread placed clo.'^e together. Stew the fruit, any summer fruit will do, with sugar, and pour it hot on to the bread, till the basin is full. Cover the fruit with large slices of bread, fitting the basin. Put a plate on the top with a weight to keep it down. When perfectly cold, turn the pudding on to a dish. Pour over and serve. Note.—This pudding should be made the day before it is eraten. Raspberries, currants, cherries, plums, damsons, and greengages are the best fruits to use.PUDDINGS. 319 17.-CARTHUSIAN DUMPLINGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Stale rolls ... 4 2... Milk ... i pint ... 3... Beaten eggs ... 2 5... Grated crumbs 6... Butter ... { lb. 7 8 g... Powdered sugar 10... Powdered If liked ... cinnamon II i Method. Grate off all the crust and cut them in pieces about the size of an egg. I Mix and put the pieces of roll in to ) soak. When well soaked drain for a few minutes. Roll all the pieces of bread in. Heat in a frying pan. Fry the dumplings a light brown. Pile them on a hot dish. Mix and sprinkle over the dumplings. Serve with sweet sauce, or with stewed fruit or custard. 18-GOLDEN FINGERS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stale Rolls Milk Egg Batter Grated crumbs Butter Powdered sugar ^ pint Cut them in slices the size of a finger. ) Beat the egg and stir it in with the j milk. Put the fingers in to soak. Make a thick pancake batter. Roll the fingers in batter Sprinkle all over them. Fry the fingers a light brown. Sprinkle over and serve with stewed fruit.320 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 19.-GERMAN BREAD PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. QuEntities. Method. I... Milk rolls ... Grate off the crust. 2... Milk I pint Soak the rolls in milk, then squeeze the milk out. 5"' Eggs 3 Beat up. 4... Butter I oz. Add. 5... Beat up the rolls in the eggs, &c. 6... Currants Wash, dry and add. 7... Sugar Add. 8... Cinnamon or Add, and mix all well together. nutmeg 9... Butter Butter a pudding mould. 10... Candied peel Put a nice slice at the bottom of the mould. II... Raisins A few ... Arrange in a pattern round the peel and on the sides of the mould. 12... Put in the mixture, and cover the top of the mould. 13... Boil or steam for 2 hours. 14... Serve with sweet sauce. 20.—WINDBAGS, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 2... Milk 2 pints ... Add. 3- Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Sugar If liked ... Add to taste, and let the whole boil up. 5- Flour I lb. ... Add gradually, stirring all the time over the fire. 6... When it begins to separate from the sides of the pan, take it off the fire and let it get cool. 7... Eggs 8 Beat up and mix with the batter. Divide the mixture in small portions with a spoon.PUDDINGS. 321 WINDBAGS, German receipt—(contintied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... Butter ... Butter a baking tin and put the little heaps on. 10,.. Bake a light brown. II... T) * A 1 ir^owQereci Sprinkle over and serve very hot. sugar 21.- -RICE PUDDING (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice i lb. ... ) Boil together and keep stirring that 2... Milk I quart ... j it may not burn. 3.., ... When it begins to thicken, take it off and let it cool. 4... Butter 2 0z.to]lb. Stir in. 5-' Sugar Put in to taste. 0.,, Nutmeg ... Grate in. 7.., *'* "* Put your pudding in a buttered pie dish and bake it. 22.- -RICE PUDDING (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 1 lb. ... 2... Milk I quart ... 1 Boil together and keep stirring. 3... Cinnamon ... I stick .. 4... When it is boiled thick put it into a basin. 5- Butter k lb. ... Stir in. 6... Sugar Add to taste. 7... Nutmeg f z Grate in. 8... Vanilla, lemon Add to taste. or almond flavouring 9... Eggs 4 When it is cold, beat up the eggs and add. 10,.. Pour into a buttered dish and bake. I I YMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 23.-RICE PUDDING (3). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice i lb. ... Tie in a cloth but give it room to swell. 2... Boil I hour, then take it out and untie it. 3- Butter lib. ... Stir in with a spoon. 4... Nutmeg ] To taste 1 Add. 5... Sugar f 6... Tie it up again close and boil it another hour. 7- 8.,. Melted butter Take it up and turn it into a dish. Pour over it. 24.-RICE MOULD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice i lb. ... Wash and drain. 2... Milk I pint ... Put the rice into a saucepan, add the milk, and put over the fire, stirring all the time. 3- Salt I pinch ... , 4... Powdered sugar ilb. ... 1 Add gradually, still stirring. 5- Butter 2 oz. 6... Flavouring of lemon vanilla, or almond Either ... Add. 7... When it is thick take it off the fire and let it cool. 8... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add to the rice. g... Whites of eggs 4 Beat to a froth and add. 10... Pour the rice thus prepared into a buttered mould, f full. II... Bake A hour. 12... Turn out and serve with cust::ird or fruit."323 PUDDINGS. 25-RICE MILK. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice ^ lb. Let it boil in water till swollen. 2... Pour off the water. 3- Miik !!. Fill up gradually with milk. 4- Let the rice simmer slowly, adding milk as required, until it is as smooth as arrowroot. 5-- Sugar Sweeten to taste. 6... Almond or Ifliked Add to taste. vanilla flavouring 7... Powdered sugar and 1 Sprinkle over before serving. cinnamon 26.-RICE CROQUETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice i lb. ... Put into a saucepan. 2... Milk Pour over till all is covered, and put the saucepan on the fire. 3-- Butter 2 OZ. Add when the rice is half boiled. 4... Salt I pinch ... k lb. ... 5... Powdered sugar |do. 6... Mix the whole with a wooden spoon. 7... When the rice has absorbed all the milk, take the saucepan off the fire. 8... Yolks of eggs 6 Beat up. 9... Lemon, Either, to Add to the eggs, and mix well with vanilla, or flavour the rice. almond flavouring 10... Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth, and mix it in with the rice. II... When it is well mixed, make it into balls with a spoon, and let them cool. Y 3MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. RICE CROQUETTES—{contlmicd). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... Bread crumbs Dip in the balls of rice. 13. Beaten egg ... I Take the balls out of the crumbs, dip them in the egg, then in the crumbs again. 14... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a frying pan. 15.., Put in the balls of rice, and fry them a nice brown, stirring them in the pan all the time. j5.,. Sugar Sprinkle over and serve. 27-TAPIOCA PUDDING. Bee receipts for Rice Puddings. 28-VERMICELLI PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Vermicelli Milk Cinnamon Flavouring Butter Sugar Beaten eggs 4 oz. T quart 1 stick 2 oz. 4 oz. 4 Boil till the vermicelli is soft, stir- ring frequently. Add and stir well together, and let I the mixture cool. Beat very light and add. Bake in a buttered pie dish j hour. 29.~SEMOLINA PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk ij pints... Boil. 2... Semolina I tea Stir into the boiling milk, and con- cupful tinue stirring over the fire for ic minutes. ■3 . . , Put into a mould. 4... Serve cold with baked fruit or preserve,PUDDINGS. 30.-SAGO AND MACARONI BISCUIT PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 4... 5-" 6... 7... 8... Sago Milk Beaten eggs... Macaroni biscuits Brandy (if liked) Sugar to taste Wine sauce ... 31.-MA 2 OZ. I pint ... 4 or 5 ... ilb. ... I wine glass RMALAI ) Boil together till the sago is quite 1 tender. > Add to the sago, beat all together. Put all into a buttered basin, and boil f of an hour. Serve with the pudding. )B PUDDING (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 6"' 4... 5-" 6... 7... 8... Bread crumbs Chopped suet Flour Sugar Orange mar- malade Eggs well beaten Milk 32.-MA 1- lb. ... 6 oz. 1 lb.* i\b, ... 3 RMALA] 1 \ Mix all together. J 1 Add and stir into a thick batter. Boil in a buttered mould 3J hours. DE PUDDING (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5-- 6... 7... Beef suet Bread crumbs Powdered sugar Beaten eggs... Milk or cream 3 oz. ... 5 oz. ... ilb, ... 3 ipint ... Chop fine. Add and mix. |Add. Beat all together 15 minutes. Put a layer in a well-buttered mon\d or pie dish*326 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MARMALADE PUDDING (2)—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... g... 10... Orange mar- malade Bread crumbs Put a layer on the top, then a layer of the mixture, and so on till the mould is full. Put a layer on the top. Bake it in a moderate oven if hours, turn out of the mould and serve. J3.-PIG PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-« 4... 5'-' 6... 7... 8... 9... Bread crumbs Chopped figs Moist sugar... Chopped suet Flour Beaten eggs... Milk Grated nut- meg ^Ib. ... ilb. ... 6 oz. ilb. ... 2 oz. 2 I wine glass 1 1 [> Mix all together. J 1 Stir into the dry ingredients, and j mix well. Press into a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil 3 hours. 34.-DATE PUDDING. See preceding receipt, substituting dates for figs. 35. -LEMON PUDDING. See receipt for Marmalade pudding, substituting the grated or chopped rind of i lemon for the marmalade. 36. -PRUNE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... 2.*. 3-- Milk Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs I wine glass 4 2 Plit into a basin* 1 Beat up and add to the milk*327 PUDDINGS. PRUNE PUDDING—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Flour 4 table spoonsful 1 Salt I pinch ... }Add. 6... Powdered 2 tea ginger spoonsful J 7... Milk pints... Add gradually. 8... Prunes I lb. ... Add. 9... Boil I hour tied up in a cloth* 10... Melted butter Pour over when you serve. Note.—Damsons are very nice cooked like this. 37-AMBER PUDDING. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. Flour Bread crumbs Chopped suet Sugar Marmalade ... Beaten egg ... ilb. do. do. do. do. ! Mix all together; put them j buttered basin and boil. 38-SPONGE SANDWICHES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sponge cakes Strawberry jam Sherry Sweet almonds Custard If liked ... i pint ... Cut in half lengthways. Put a layer on the lower half of each sponge cake, and cover with the top half, and arrange them in a glass dish. Pour over to saturate the cakes. Blanch, cut in slices, and stick into the top of the cakes. Four over and serve.328 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 39.-GABINET PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i oz. Butter the inside of a plain mouid. 2... Dried cherries 3 doz. ... Arrange in a pattern all over the buttered mould. Angelica Small Arrange amongst the cherries, keeping slices to one pattern throughout. 4... Sponge cakes J lb. Cut in slices and add. 5-- Ratifias i lb. Add. 6... Lump sugar... 3 oz. Add. 7... Vanilla ... Enough to give a good flavour. 8... Thin cream ... pint ... Heat on the fire. 9... Yolks of eggs 6 Beat well. 10... Whites of eggs 2 Beat and add. II... Pour the hot cream on to the eggs, beat, and let it stand till quite cool. 12... Brandy or I wine Add gradually to the cream and eggs. sherry glassful 13... Pour the mixture slowly into the mould. 14... Cover with buttered paper, and steam the pudding gently one hour. 15... Wine sauce ... Serve w^ith the pudding. 40-POTATO SOUFFLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk ipint ... Boil, then take off the fire and let it cool. 2... Potato flour ... 4or5 large spoonsful 3- Powdered 6 oz. sugar Mix together in a large saucepan, 4... Butter IJ oz. ... 5... Yolks of eggs 4 stirring well with a wooden spoon. 6... Lemon, Either ... vanilla, or almond flavouring Add the warm milk by degrees, stir- ring the same way all the time.PUDDINGS. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4. . ilb. .„ 329 POTATO SOUFFLE—(^o;7^/;/?/^^f). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8.., Stir and simmer till it thickens. g... Let it stand and cool. 10... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add gradually. II... Whites of eggs 6 Beat up to a froth, then add to the rest. 12... Pour this mixture into a pie dish and bake about 20 minutes. 13... The souffle ought to rise and brown, but not burn. 14... Powdered sugar Sprinkle over and serve. 41.-POTATO PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold boiled ilb. ... Pound in a mortar. potatoes 2... Butter k lb. ... Add. 3"' Milk \ pint ... Add and mix quite smooth. 4... Eggs 3 Beat up the yolks only. 5-- Sugar To taste Add. 6... Lemon peel... I lemon... Grate very fine and add. 7... Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth and add. 8... Mix well with the potatoes, put in a mould, and boil or bake. 42.-FRENCH GATEAU. Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... Whites of eggs 6 Beat for 20 minutes. 2... Powdered ilb. ... Add gradually while beating. sugar 3- Flour lib. ... Add. ButterMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FRENCH GArEAV—icoutinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5" ... When the butter is melted and warm, mix it gradually with the whites of eggs stirring the same way all the time. 6... Orange flower I table Add, still stirring. water spooniul 7- 8... Butter Mix the paste quite smooth. Rub over the inside of a mould. g... Powdered Sprinkle over the butter. sugar Put in the paste till the mould is f full. 10... II... Bake in a moderate oven i^ hour. 43.-BISCUIT PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. .1 Milk li pint ... Boil and let it get cool. 2... Stale milk roll ilb. ... Break in pieces. 3... Sweet biscuits i lb. ... Add. 4... Macaroons ... A few ... Add. 5- Ratifias A few ... Add, together with any broken bits of sponge cake or pastry. 6... Pour the milk over the broken bits of bread, biscuit, etc., and let them soak in it. Sugar To taste Add. 8... g... Beat up all the ingredients over a slow fire, until they form a thick paste. Take them off the fire. lO... Eggs 5 Beat up and add. II... Butter 2 oz. Add. 12... Sultanas iib. ... Add. 13... Currants i lb. ... Wash, dry, and add. 14... Nutmeg Grate a little over* 15... Brandy or I wine Add and mix well. rum glassful 16... ••• •.• Put the mixture in a buttered mould and bake.Puddings. 331 44.-SWISS PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i lb. ... Melt on a slow fire. 2... Eggs 4 Beat the yolks and whites together. Powdered ^ lb. Add to the eggs. sugar 4... Mix the eggs and sugar with the butter. Flour I lb. ... Add gradually and mix well. 6... Spread out the paste in strips 4 inches long. 7... Roll up each piece the size of your thumb. 8... Butter Fry the rolls in butter. 9... Powdered Sprinkle over, and serve piled on a sugar folded napkin. 45-ROMAN PUDDING. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eggs Powdered sugar Potato flour Sugar Lemon juice Lemon peel Oil 6 2 table spoonsful ioz. 1 oz. I lemon ^ lemon Beat the yolks and whites separately. Add a little to each. Mix together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Add the yolks and continue beating. Add the strained juice. Grate very fine and add. Pour the eggs from a height on to the potato flour, and stir well. Grease a pudding mould. Fill the mould about half full with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. When it rises to the top, take it out of the mould and serve.332 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Sugar 12... Sprinkle over and serve. 46.-NEW HASTY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities V^uan 1 les. Method. I... •^&&^ *" Beat up the yolks separately. 2... Flour Milk 1 Add until you have a thick batter^ J"' 4... Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth* 5... Powdered I oz. Add. . sugar 6... Lemon peel... I Grate fine and add. 7... Mix the frothed whites with the batter, and stir quickly. 8... Butter Butter a pie dish, and put in the mixture. 9... Bake in the oven. 10... When it rises like a souffle, serve at once, before it falls. 47.--DARIOLES, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I oz. Melt on the fire. 2... Flour 2 dessert Add by degrees. spoonsful 3-- Powdered sugar 3 dessert spoonsful Add. 4... Lemon peel ... ^ lemon... Grate fine and add. 5"' Candied violets or orange flowers 1 Chop and add. 6... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... Salt A pinch... Add. 8... Cream i pint ... Add and mix all well together. g... Butter Butter a sufficient number of small moulds. 10... Fill the moulds and bake in the oven. II... When done take them out of the moulds.PUDDINGS. 333 48-BATTER PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs 3 Beat in a basin. 2... Flour 3 table Add gradually, and mix very smooth. spoonsful 3- New milk Add to thin the batter, until it is the consistence of cream. 4... Whites of eggs 3 Beat up, and add to the batter. 5- Pour into a buttered mould, and boil I hour. 6... Fruit sauce ... Serve with it» Note.—Half a pound of cleaned and dried currants added to the batter will convert it into a black-cap pudding. For the fruit sauce boil a little sugar and water together for a few minutes, tnen add fresh fruit crushed with a spoon, or the expressed juice only, and boil again for 5 or 6 minutes. 49.-CUSTARD PUDDING, haked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4- 5,.. 6... Milk Mace, cinna- mon, lemon peel Sugar Yolks of eggs pint ... A little ] ofeach j To taste 3 Put in a saucepan. Add to flavour the milk, and boil up. Add. Let the milk get cold. Beat and add to the strained milk. Pour into a pie dish, and bake in a slow oven. 50-LEMON PUDDING, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... Bread crumbs Beef suet Sugar Lemon i lb. 6 oz. ilb. ... I large, il rjiall Grate fine. Chop fine and add. Add. Add the grated rind and strained juice.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 334 LEMON PUDDING, baked—{contlmied). Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Eggs Milk Sifted siiofar .. 3 A little Beat and add. Add if required. Mix all well together, and put in a buttered pie dish. Bake one hour in a quick oven, if it browns too quickly, cover it with paper. When done, turn it out of the dish, Sprinkle over and serve. 51.-CREAM FRITTERS. Ingredients. ! Quantities. Method. Flour Butter Powdered sugar Vanilla Salt Eggs Milk Yolks of eggs Macaroons .. Sifted sugar... I large spoonful oz. ... 3 spoons- ful A pinch 2 f pint 2 A few Put in a saucepan. Melt and add. Add. Add enough to flavour. Add and mix well. Beat up and add, and stir quickly. Boil and add gradually, stirring well all the time over a slow fire. When thickened, let it simmer 5 minutes. Beat and add. Crush and add. Stir over the fire a few minutes, but do not let the mixture boil. When it is a thick cream pour it on to a buttered dish. Let it stand till cold. Cut in small pieces, dip in batter, and fry a nice colour. Sprinkle over before serving.PUDDINGS. 335 52.—CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Bread-crumbs Salt Suet Moist sugar Currants Raisins Candied peel Nutmeg Mixed spice Eggs Brandy Sherry 2 lbs. \ tea- spoonful 2 lbs. 1 lb. 2 lbs. 2 lbs. 41b. I h OZ, 6 h pint ! gill Put into a large basin. Chop fine and add. Add. Wash, dry, and add. Wash, stone, and add. Cut in strips and add. Grate and add. Add. Mix these ingredients well. Whisk well and add. Add. Add. Stir all the ingredients together, and put into buttered moulds. Cover the top of each pudding with buttered paper, tie up in pudding- cloths, and boil 6 hours. The pud- dings can then be kept some con- siderable time, but must be boiled another 6 hours before eating. This quantity will make three good-sized puddings. 53.—APPLE CHARLOTTE. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Apples Sugar... Lemon juice .. Butter Bread crumbs 3 table- spoonsful ^ lemon... A httle ... 3 ta ble- spoonsful Peel, cut in quarters and core. into a saucepan. Add. Put Butter Add. Stew 20 to 30 minutes. Butter a pie dish. Line the dish with some of the bread crumbs. Put in a layer of apple, then another layer of bread crumbs, continue the alternate layers until the dish is filled. Before adding the top layer, which must be of bread crumbs, pour in the juice of the apples. Arrange round the top in small lumps. Bake -J hour. Serve either hot or cold.MVI^AS COOKERY BOOK 336 54.—RHUBARB CHARLOTTE. Ingredients. Quantitiess. Method. Rhubarb Sugar Lemon juice ... Butter Bread crumbs Butter 6 sticks ... 6 table- spoonsful ^ lemon... |oz. ... 5 table- spoonsful ^ oz. Wash, scrape, and cut into pieces I inch long; put into a saucepan. Add. Add. Stew gently -J hour. Butter a pie dish well. Proceed in exactly the same manner as in the above recipe. 55.-RHUBARB FOOL. Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... Rhubarb 6 sticks... Wash, scrape, and cut into pieces. Put into a stewpan. 2... Sugar 6 table- Add. spoonsful J lemon... 3- • • Lemon juice... Add. 4... Stew gently until reduced to a pulp. Rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon. 6... Milk or cream I pint ... Add and stir well. 7-. Serve cold in a glass dish. 56.—BATTER PUDDING, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs... 3 Beat in a basin. 2... Castor sugar... I table- Add gradually. spoonful Add gradually and mix very smooth. 3--- Flour 3 table- spoonsful 4... Milk fpint ... Add gradually. 5--- Butter a pie dish. 6... Whites of eggs 3 Beat up well and add to the batter. 7... Pour into the pie dish and bake im- mediately in a quick oven ^ hour. 8... Serve directly it is taken from the oven. Note.---Jam or preserve of some kind should be handed round with the puddingPUDDIA'GS. 337 57.-OABINET PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. JVIetliod. I... So-Voy biscuits ^ lb. Divide and trim neatly. 2... Rciisins 2 OZ. Wash, stone, and arrange inside a buttered mould. Place a layer of the Savoy biscuits in the mould. A Ratifias 3 OZ. Place in a layer. 5--- Repeat 3 and 4 until all are in the mould. 6... Eggs 2 Beat up. 7... Milk Not qfiitc, Add, stir together, and pour into the -0- pint mould. 8... Cover the top with buttered paper. Tie up in a cloth and boil i hour. 9... Turn out of the mould. 10.,. Sweet sauce 01 J pi::t ... Pour over and serve hot. wine sauce 58.— RICE CROQUETTES. Order. T Ingredients. .. . Quantities. Method. J Best Carolina iib. ... Wash well and put into a saucepan. 2... Sugar I table- Add. spoonful Lemon rind ... ~ lemon... Add. 4... Milk I pint ... Add, and simmer gently for 2 or 3 hours. Take out the lemon peel, empty the rice on to a plate, and allow it to cool. 6... When cold form into small balls. J... Ecg" Beat up, and roll the balls in it. 8... Bread-crumbs 4 table- Cover the balls. spoonsful 9... Clarified drip- iib. ... Melt in a fryingpan, and when boil- ping ing, fry the croquettes a light brown. 10... Lay a piece of white paper on a sieve in front of the fire, and place the croquettes on it when cooked. II... When quite dry arrange on a paper d'oyley, and garnish with dried fruit.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 59.~TAPIOGA AND CUSTARD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tapioca 1 1K lb. rut into a saucepan. 2... Sugar 4 lumps... Add. 3-.- Cold water ... I pint ... Pour over and simmer until the tapioca is quite transparent (about I to IJ hours). 4... ... Strain off the water and turn the tapioca on to a plate. Pvlilk 1 pint ... Pour into a saucepan. 6... Sugar 3 lumps... Add. 7... Lemon peel ... lemon ... Add. Simmer \ hour. 8... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up. 9... Take out the lemon peel and allow the milk to cool a little, add to the eggs, stir, and pour into a jug. 10... ... Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, keep on the fire until the custard thickens (about 15 minutes). taking care to stir the same way the whole time. II... Take the jug out of the saucepan and stand in a cool place. 12... Place the tapioca on a glass dish. .3... Strawberry or 5 desocrt Place one spoonful on the tapioca at apricot jam spoonsful each corner of the dish, and one in the centre. 14... When the custard is cold, pour it over 15... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a firm froth, and arrange lightly on the custard. 60.—BREAD AND JAM GRUTARDS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. , ., I... Slices of bread 6 • 1 1 • 1 Cut the slices of bread 1 inch thick, (crumb) about 2 inches long, and l-^ broad. 2... Place them on a dish. Sherry 4* gills ... l^oiii' over and allow to soak ^ hour* 4... Butter I oz. Place a very small piece on each. 5--- Put in the oven (keeping them on the same dish); bake a light brown. 6... Strawberry oi- Put a dessertspoonful on each little raspberry jam square. 7... Arrange on a paper d'oyley, and send to table hot.PUDDINGS. 339 61.—SUET PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Beef suet Jib. ... Chop very fine. 2... Bread crumbs ^ lb. A AA Ada. Nutmeg 1 4 Grate and add. 4... Baking powder J tea- Add. spoonful. 5... Milk ipint ... Add. Beat all well together. Put into a greased mould, tie up iti a cloth, and boil 3 hours. 6... Turn out of the mould and serve hot, with jam or cut lemon and sugar. 62.-BAKED RAISIN PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method* I... Flour 41b. ... Put into a basin* 2... Baking powder I dessert Add. spoonful 3-- Clarified drip- 3 ozs. ... Rub into the flour. ping. 4... Raisins ilb. ... Wash, stone, and addi Candied peSl I oz. Cut into thin strips arid add. 6... Water i| gills, Add. Beat the mixture well, pUt good into a buttered pie dish, bake | t'^ measure. I hour. Turn out, and serve either hot Oi' cold, with sifted sugar over the top. 63. HAISIN PUDDING, Com-Flour, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Corn-flour ... 2 table Put in a basin. spoonsfu 2... Milk \\ pint .. Add gradually; mix perfectly smooth 3-. Raising 2 ozs. Wash, stone, and add. 4... Candied peel I oz. Cut in thin strips and add. 5--- Pour the mixture into a saucepan and boil 2 or 3 minutes. 6... Eggs 2 Beat well and mix thoroughly with the corn-flour. 7... Pour into a pie-dish ; bake \ hour. z Ik34^ MV/^AS COOKERV BOOK, 64.—P3^lS pudding. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Split peas Butter Pepper, salt ... Yolks of eggs White of egg 65.-CC 1 pint ... 2 OZS. According to taste. 2 I Soak in cold water -J hour. Tie them in a cloth, leaving them plenty of room to swell. Put into a saucepan of cold water, and boil till quite tender, about \ to f hour. Drain ofl* all the water from the peas, and rub them through a sieve or collander into a basin. Add. Add. Mix well. Beat and add. Beat and add. Tie the mixture up in a floured pud- ding cloth, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil i hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve hot w th boiled pork. DUR PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... Milk Corn-flour ... Salt Eggs Powdered sugar Vanilla or other flavouring Apricot pre- serve I quart ..< 4 table- spoonsful A pinch.., 3 3 table- spoonsful To taste... Put in a basin. Mix smooth with the milk and pour into a saucepan. Add, and boil for three minutes stirring all the time. Take the saucepan ofl* the fire and let it cool a little. Beat up in a basin, \ Add to the beaten-Up eggs. J Mix the eggs with the milk, &c. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-' dish. Pour the milk and eggs on the pre- serves. Bake for half^an-liour, and serve hot or cold.PUDDINGS. 34? 66.-FRANKF0RT PUDDINa. Order. Ingredients. Quanlities. Method- I... Milk I pint ... Put in a basin. 2... Corn-flour ... 2 table- Mix smooth with the milk and pour spoonsful IJ ozs. ... into a saucepan. 3-" Sugar 1 Rub the sugar on the lemon and add 4... Lemon I oz. J to the milk. 5... Sweet almonds 15 or 20... Blanch, pound, and add to the milk. 6... Boil for ten minutes then take olT the fire. 7... Eggs 3 yolks ... Beat up and add, and boil gently for five minutes. 8... Eggs 3 whites Beat to a stiff froth and add, stirring the whole lightly, and boil up again. 9... Dried c'lerrics Place these or other dried fruit in a mould that has been soaked in cold water. 10... Pour the mixture into the mould and let it stand till cold. 67.—CORN-FLOUR AND JAM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Strawberry, Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish. raspberry, or any other jam. 2... Corn-flour ... 6 table spoonsful Put in a basin. 3--- Baking powder I dessert spoonful Add and mix. 4... Milk I quait ... Add gradually ; mix quite smooth. 5--- Pour into a saucepan, stir well, and allow to thicken. 6... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat well and add. 7... Pour the mixture on the jam and bake \. hour. ' Beat to a firm froth and arrange in 8... Whites of eggs 2 small heaps on the top of the 9... Castor sugar... I table spoonful pudding. ' Put in the oven 2 or 3 minutes to set the egg. Serve either hot or cold.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 342 68.—PLAIN RIZINE PUDDING, Baked. Order. Ingredrents, Quantities. Method. I... a... Flake Rizine... Milk Lemon rind .,, 3 J oz. i| pint ... I lemon... 1 Stir together. Grate on a lump of sugar and add. Stir the mixture, pour into a pie- dish, and bake J hour. 69.—MARMALADE PUDDING, Rizin<;. Qi\ler. Ing-redients. Quantities. Method, I... 3... 3*- 4... 6... 7.., 8... Fl^ke Rizine... Boiling milk.., Marmalade ... Raisins Eggs Custard 2 oz. I gill .„ * 2 table- spoonsful Jib, ... 3 Ipint .., Put into a basin. Pour over, and let it remain covered 10 minutes. Add. Wash, stone, and add. Whisk well and add. Beat all well together, pour into a buttered mould. Cover with a pudding cloth, and boil about 40 minutes. Turn out. Pour over and serve hot. 70.-NORMANDY PIPPINS. Order. IngTedients. Quantities. Method. J... 2... 3-" 4... 5... 6... Normandy pippins Cold water ... Sugar 8 1 pint ... ... Cut out the centres with a sharp knife. Place the pippins in a saucepan. Add. Add, stir until melted. Allow to simmer about 4 hours. When cold, place the pippins on a glass dish, and pour the syrup over them.343 CREAMS AND MOULDS. SECTION XV.—CREAMS AND MOULDS. l.-BLANC MANGE, French receipt. Ingredients. Bitter almonds Sw eet ditto Cold water .. Powdered sugar Cream Orange flour water Isinglass melted in Quantities. I oz. { lb. I spoonful ilb. ... ipint .., I tea spoon V.l I oz. Method. Steep in boiling water. Skin and wipe in a clean cloth. Pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. Add drop by drop to prevent them turning to oil. Add graduall}', stirring the same way all the time. : When the whole is well mixed pour into a mould. Put the mould into a refrigerator or put pounded ice round it. When you want to turn it out, dip the mould into hot water. 2—BLANO MANGE, English .receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... New milk ... Sugar Vanilla or lemon Isinglass ii pint ... 2 oz. To flavour I oz. "1 Let them stand for an hour, then >■ simmer gently until the isinglass is dissolved, stirring frequently.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 344 BLANC MANGE, English receipt—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5,.. 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Cream Brandy or sherry 1 pint 2 table spoonsful Take off the scum. Add gradually and stir in. Strain into a mould. Stir occasionally while cooling. Add if liked. Turn it out of the mould before serving. 3.-ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 5... 6... Milk Arrowroot ... Cinnamon ... Su^ar I quart ... 1 lb. ... To taste To taste 1 Mix together till quite smooth. Add this or any other flavouring. Add. Boil for 10 minutes stirring all the time. Pour into a mould and let it stand till cold, 4.- BAVARIAN CREAM, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6.., Strawberries Sifted sugar... New milk Isinglass Sugar I quart ... ilb. ... 1 pint 2 oz. To taste Pick and crush with a silver spoon. Sprinkle over and let them stand a few hours. Rub them through a hair sieve. Put in a saucepan. Add. Add; put the saucepan on the fire to melt the isinglass.CREAMS AND MOULDS. 345 BAVARIAN CREAM—(coniimied). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 7... When quite dissolved strain the milk through muslin. 8... Cream I pint ... Add and stir till the mixture is nearly cold. g... Pour it on to the strawberries and mix them well together. 10... Lemon juice I lemon .. Strain and add, if liked, drop by drop. II... Pour into the mould, and let it cool in a refrigerator. Note.—Good new milk may be used in place of cream if this is not obtJii-uible. Apricot or other jam can be used in place oi the fresh fruit. 5.-CARAMEL CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Sugar Water 2 oz. I table spoonful 1 Put both on the fire till the sugar is r a light caramel brown. 3-" Take the saucepan off the fire. 4... Milk ... Sugar 1 pint ... \\b. ... 1 Boil in another saucepan. 6... Pour gradually on to the caramel, stirring all the time. 7... Yolks of eggs 3 ) Beat and add gradually to the 8... 9... White of egg I ... > cream, stirring the same way all ) the time. Pour into a basin or mould, which you place in a stewpan half full of boiling water. 10... Let it set thus for about ^ hour. II... When it is of firm consistence it is done. 6.-CARAMEL MOULD. See preceding receipt, add melted isinglass, and pour into a mould. Put the mould into a refrigerator, or put pounded ice round it. When you want to turn it out, dip it in hot water, put the dish upside down on the top, then turn the mould out upon it.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 34^ 7.-C0FFSE CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk or cream Essence of coffee or very strong coffee Powdered sugar Yolks of ep^^s White of dl I pint .. 3 spoons- ful i lb. .. or 5 Boil 15 minutes in a saucepan. Add when the milk boils. Add, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the fire. ] Beat up and pour gradually into the f saucepan, stirring all the time. Put the saucepan on the fire again till the cream begins to thicken. Pour into a dish or custard cups, and place them in a stewpan half full of boiling water. Let the water boil till the cream is of the right consistence. Let it get cold before you serve. 8.-CHOCOLATE MOULD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Cream or milk I pint ... Boil, then take the saucepan off the fire. 2 .. Yolks of eggs 6 3-- Powdered su;^ar ilb. ... 1 Beat up together in a basin. 4... Mix the whole together gradually with a spoon. 5- Put back the saucepan on a gentle fire and stir all the time till the cream thickens, then take it off the fire again. 6... Chocolate Ub. ... Ipmt ... 1 Melt in another saucepan over the 7... Water f fire. 8... 9... Isinglass Water I oz. \ pint ... 1 Melt in another saucepan. 10... When the isinglass is melted pour it gradually into the chocolate.347 CREAMS AND MOULDS, CHOCOLATE MOVLD--{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... 13... 14... Add the cream, &c., gradually, stir- ring all the time. Pour into a mould. Place the mould in a refrigerator or put pounded ice round it. When you wish to turn it out, dip the mould into hot water, put the dish upside down on the top of it and turn it out quickly. Q.-ECONOMICAL CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... D'" 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Potato flour Yolks of eggs Boiled milk ... Powdered sugar Orange flower water I large spoonful 3 I pint ... i lb. ... To taste Put in a basin. Mix with the flour. Add gradually stirring all the time, and mix thoroughly. Add in the same way, Add. Put in a mould, place this on the fire and stir continually for 5 minutes. Take the dish off the fire. Let it get cool before serving. lO.-WHIPPED CREAM, a la Chantllly. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... ^... Thick cream Gum dragon Powdered sugar ij pint ... A pinch \ lb. ... Put in a cool place or surround with ice. Powder fine and add. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 348 WHIPPED CREAM, ( I la Chantilly—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7-" Note fruit. Flavouring White of egg —This cream is us 11. If liked ... X ed for mering -VANII Vanilla, lemon, or orange. Whip until the cream is frothed. Put on a hair sieve for the milk to drain off. Beat to a froth, if the cream is not firm enough, and add. ues, trifles, and for ornamenting compotes o{ iLA CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 10... Milk Sugar Vanilla Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs pint ... 6 oz. I stick ... 5 2 Boil in a saucepan. Add. Add and boil together \ hour. Take the milk off the fire, and take out the vanilla. I Beat up together in basin. ) Add the boiled milk gradually, stirring all the time. Put into a mould and put this in a saucepan half-full of boiling water. Leave it on the fire about \ hour. Turn the cream out when it is cold. 12.-ST0NE CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5--- Boiling water Isinglass Milk Cream Sugar ^ cupful... \ oz. i pint ... ^ pint ... To taste ) Steep the isinglass in the water ) until dissolved. Put in a saucepan. Add. Add.CREAMS AND MOULDS. 349 STONE CREAM~{connnu:(l), Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Add the strained isin;^lass. 7... Put it on the fire, and when it begins to boil pour into a basin. Stir till it is nearly cold. 8... 9... rrebcrve Any good Place at the bottom of a glass diish, kind 10... Pour the cream over and let it stand till cold. II... Sweet almonds Blanch and cut in slices, and stick over the top of the cream. 13.-LEM0N CREAM. Ingredients. Quantities. I Method. Cream i^ pint ... Put in an enamelled saucepan. Lemon peel ... I lemon... Add. Gelatine 2 oz. Add. Boil gently for 10 minutes and strain. Sugar Yolks of eg"gs i'lh. Add. 2 Beat and add. Put the basin containing the mixture in a saucepan half lull of boiling water. Stir constantly, and do not let it boil. Take it off the fire, and stir till the cream is nearly cold. Lcr.:o::s Strain the juice through a sieve, and mix with the cream. Stir quickly, and pour into an oiled mould. When cold, turn it out in the usual way. *MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 350 14.-WINE CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White wine ... I pint ... Put in a saucepan. 2... Sugar 6 oz. Add. Lemon peel or cinnamon Add to flavourj and boil gently. 4... Yolks of eggs 7 or 8 ... Beat up in a basin. Pour the wine gradually on to the eggs, and stir well. Strain the mixture into a mould, and set as usual in a saucepan of boiling water. 6... 7"' •t« ••• Serve cold. 15.-FRUIT CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. t... Fresh fruit ... I lb. ... Choose strawberries, raspberries, or currants; pick them. 2... Crush, and strain the juice through a sieve. 3- Powdered i lb. .. Add to the juice. sugar 4... Boil the juice in A sauCepan. Yolks of eggs 4 Beat up. 6... Take the saucepan off the fire. 7... Pour the eggs gradually in, and stir all the time near the fire, but do not let it boil. 8... Pour it into a dish to cool. g... Whites of cgge 4 Beat to a froth, and add to the mixture. 16- COCOA-NUT CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cocoa-nut ... I Saw it in two, and pour out the milk. 2... Cut the nut in small pieces, free from shell and skin. 3-- Syrup I pint ... Make a thin syrup of sugar and water.CREAMS AND MOULDS. COCOA-NUT CREAM—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Cinnamon, vanilla or Throv/ in the pieces of nut, and let them boil 3 hours. Add to flavour the cocoa-nut, if liked. 6.., 7... 8... 9... lemon Yolks of eggs Crystallized fruits 2 or 3 ... Take the saucepan off the fire. Beat and add gradually, stirring well. Pour into a glass dish, and let it get cool. Garnish with slices of small crystal lized citrons. 17.-MONT BLANC. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Whites of eggs Powdered 6 Beat to a stiff froth. Add about J oz. to each egg. 3--- 4... 5- 6... sugar Currants Maraschino ... 1 lb. 4 lab^e spoonsful Clean and add gradually. Put the mixture in the oven to set, but do not let it brown. Put in a glass dish. Pile the frothed eggs on this, and serve. Note.—Whites of eggs left over from creams can be utilised in this manner. 18.-0RANGE SPONGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... 3-" 4... 5-- 6... Gelatine Water Powdered sugar Oranges Lemon 3.OZ. ... 1 pint ... ^Ib. ... 3 I 1 Melt together and strain* Add. Squeeze the Juice Into a ctip. Squeeze into the orange juice. Strain and add them to the melted gelatine.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 35- ORANGE CREkU—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1'" Wiiip the mixture until it is the consistence of cream. 8... Pour it into a mould, and let it get quite cold. g... ... Turn it out, and decorate with pre- served cherries. 19. -ITALIAN SPONGE. Order. ingredients. Quantities. Method. t... Yolks of eggs 12 Put in a saucepan on a moderate fire. 2... Madeira 4 wine Add. glasses 3--- Powdered 6 oz. Add; sugar A... Cinnamon A pinch... Add in powdef. 5-- Stir quickly on the fire With a chocolate mill, until the froth fills the saucepan. 6... ••• ••• ... Pour quickly into small cups, and serve at once. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sponge i lb. ... Line the inside of a buttered mould, biscuits and arrange them at the bottom. 2... Yolks of eggs 5 Beat and put in a saucepan. 3--- Milk I pint ... Add. 4... Sugar To taste Add. 5-- Vanilla To taste Add. 6... Stir on the fire till it boils. 7... Gelatine I oz. Melt in a little hot water. 8... Add to the contents of the saucepan. g... Cream '[ I pint ... Whip to a froth. 10... Mix it lightly with the eggs, &c. 11... I z Put into the mould, and set it on ice until wanted. 12... 1 Turn out of the mould before serving*353 JELLIES. SECTION XVI.—JELLIES. —— l.-OALFS FOOT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Calf's feet Sherry or Marsala Lump sugar. Lemon juice. Whites of eggs Lemon peel . I bottle lib. 5 lemon 6 or 8 Boil in a gallon of water till it is reduced to a quart. When it is cold, skim off all the fat. Leave what settling there may be at the bottom and put the jelly into a saucepan. I Add. Beat up with a whisk, tnen put them into the saucepan, stir all well together till it boils, and let it boil a few minutes. Pour through a large flannel bag, and repeat this till it runs clear. Put into a basin after you have cut it as thin as possible. Let the jelly run into the basin and the lemon peel will give it an amber colour and a fine flavour. Fill your glasses or mould. 2.~ORANGE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Peel of Seville 2 1 1 oranges 2... Peel of China 2 ^ Pare very thin, and put in a saucepan. do. 3... Peel of lemons 2 4... Juice of 3 of Squeeze and strain on to the peel. each A AMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 354 ORANGE ]ELLY—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Loaf sugar ... Water Isinglass jelly made with 2 oz. of isinglass i lb. ... i pmt ... I quart ... 1 Add to the juice. Boil till it almost candies. Add and boil it up at once. Strain off the jelly and let it stand tc settle before it is put in the mould. 3.- -ISINGLASS JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5'" 0... 7... 8... 9... Gelatine (Nelson's) Hot water ... Lemon peel ... Stick of cin- namon Cloves Lemon juice... Sherry Powdered lump sugar Whites of eggs I packet I pint ... 5 lemons I small ... 6 5 lemons i pint ... ilb. ... 5 Dissolve in ^ pint of cold water. I^Add. When done clarify with the shells and whites, and strain as usual. 4.-FRUIT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Juice of oranges, strawberries, cherries, pine-apples, &c., &c* Omit the sherry from isinglass jelly, and add the juice you choose, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it. The jelly takes its name from its flavouring.JELLIES. 355 5-BLACK-CURRANT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Currants Water 10 quarts I quart ... Strip off the stalks and put them into an earthen pan. Add and set them in a cool oven for 2 hours, with a paper tied over them. Squeeze through a hair sieve or very fine cloth into a preserving pan. Add and stir gently till the sugar melts. 4... Loaf sugar ... lbs. to each quart of juice 5- 6... 7... Brandy paper When it boils skim it well. Let it boil pretty quickly over a clear fire for ^ hour, then put it into pots. Put over the pots. 6.-RED-CURRANT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Currants 10 quarts See preceding receipt and follow it exactly, substituting red currants for black. 7. -FRUIT IN JELLY. Order. Ingiedients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Clear stiff calf's foot jelly Fine ripe peaches Bunch ot grapes ^ pint ... 3 I Pour into a mould and let it stand till it is nearly set and stiff. Lay in the jelly. Do. with the stalk upwards. A A 2356 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FRUIT IN ]EhLY—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- ••• 8 -APRIC Let it stand till the next day, then set your mould to the brim in hot water. As soon as you perceive the jelly gives way from the mould, lay your dish over and turn it carefully out. OT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5"* 6... Apricots Sugar 9 -MEDL Remove the stones and take off any stained parts of the skin. Take the same weight as the fruit. Put in the preserving pan. Boil for 15 minutes, stirring all the time and skimming. Strain through a sieve into glass jars. Crack some of the stones and put the kernels on the top of each jai of jelly. AR JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Medlars Cold water ... Sugar Lemons ••• Weight of the juice Choose them ripe and fit for eating, and put them in the preserving pan. Pour over till they are covered. Boil for 20 minutes. Strain them through a sieve, but without pressing them. Weigh the juice and put it back in the par. Add. Add the rind and strained juice of I lemon to every 100 medlars. When the jelly is clear and done, take out the lemon peel and pour into small glass jars. Note.—Medlar Jelly is a delicious preserve, with the colour and flavour of guava jelly.JELLIES. lO.-APPLE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... IS Apples Cold water ... Lemon juice Water Lemon juice Crushed sug t Candied peel OTE,—A compote c 1] Small quantity Small quantity f apples can b l.-QUIN Pippins are the best to choose. Wipe them, cut off the stalks, and divide them in two. 1 Mix in a basin and throw the apples \ in as you cut them. Drain them and put them in the preserving pan. Add just enough to float them. Add the juice of 2 lemons to every 50 apples. When the apples are soft strain the juice through a sieve without press- ing. Weigh the juice and add the same weight of sugar. Boil in the pan for 15 minutes. Cut in very fine slices and add. Pour the jelly into glass jars, e made with the remainder of the fruit. CE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Quinces Cold water ... Water Sugar Choose them very ripe; wipe them, cut them in quarters, and remove the stalks and cores. Throw them in at once. Put them into the preserving pan. Add enough to cover them. When done strain the juice through a sieve. Boil the juice with an equal weight of sugar; quinces take longer to boil than apples. Keep in small glass jars.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 35« 12.-WHITE WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Isinglass Sugar White wine . Madeira oz. I lb. li pint I pint Melt in a little water. Add. Add. Add. Boil and strain through muslin intc a mould. 13.-PORT WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Calf's feet ... Lemon juice Sugar Port wine Whites of eggs 4 3 lemons To taste I bottle... 6 Boil in water to a jelly and let it cool. Strain and add. Add. Add. Boil with the calf's foot jdly. Beat and add, stir well and let all boil together. Strain through a flannel bag. 14.-AN0THER WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5... 6... 7... Isinglass Sherry Sherry Lemon peel... Nutmeg Sugar Melted isin- glass I oz. i pint ... Remainder of bottle I lemon A little ... To taste 1 Melt in the wine on the fire. Put in a saucepan. Cut thin and add. Grate in. Add. Add, boil, and strain into a mould.359 JELLIES, 15.-PUNCH JELLY. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Calf's feet . Wine Lemon juice Whites of eggs Water Sugar Arack 4 I pint 3 lemon 4 i pint i^lb. I pint Boil and prepare as usual. Add to the clarified jelly. Strain and add. Beat and add. Let it boil gently for i hour, stirring frequently. Strain through a flannel bag. I Melt the sugar in the water. Add and mix with the jelly. Pour into a mould and let it get cold. 16-JELLY FOR COLD MEATS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Veal . Calf's feet Shin of beef Water Salt Cold water Sweet herbs Onions Carrots Leeks and celery White wine .. Lemon juice 2 lbs. 4 2 lbs. To taste 1 tumbler- ful A bunch 4 4 2 of each i pint .. I lemon Cut in pieces and put in a saucepan. Cut in half and add. Add, free from bone. Add hot or cold water to cover the meat. Add. Let it boil, then skim. Pour into the saucepan. Add. Stick one with 4 cloves and add. Cut in slices and add. Tie together and add. Simmer gently for 8 hours. Strain the jelly and let it cool. When cold take off the fat. Put the jelly in a sauccpm on the fire. Add. Strain and add.36o MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, JELLY FOR COLD MEATS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Salt ... . Whites of eggs 2 Vinegar and water Cold water ... A little Add if needed. Skim carefully as the scum rises. Beat up with a little water. Stir the boiling jelly vigorously with one hand, and pour in the whites of egg quickly with the other. Dip a clean white cloth in, and fasten it by the corners over a basin. Add when the jelly boils up again. When the whites of eggs are well incorporated pour the jelly slowly through the cloth. Strain 2 or 3 times, if necessary, until the jelly is quite clear. Let it get cold and serve it cut in blocks with boned turkey, or other cold meats. 17 -ASPIC FOR POULTRY. This is made in the same way as the preceding, with the addition of a l^.ttle more lemon juice. While the jelly is still liquid, truffles, mush- rooms fried in butter, and preserved gherkins are arranged in layers in it, the jelly being allowed to get firm between the layers. 18.-TO CLARIFY JELLY. Simmer the calfs' feet gently for several hours, strain the liquor through a sieve and let it get cold. When cold take off the fat and put the jelly back on the fire, adding to it the strained juice of one lemon; take off the scum when the jelly begins to boil. Beat up the whites of two or three eggs in a basin with a little water, take the jelly off the fire, stir it quickly with one hand and with the other pour in the beaten whites of egg very suddenly. Put the saucepan back on the fire at once and the moment it b;^gins to boil pour in a glass of cold water and let it boil up again. Strain it at once through the jelly bag, and repeat this two or three times if necessary. If the jelly is not required immediately let it simmer gently on a slow fire, until it is sufficiently reduced without boiling, then pour it into an earthen jar and keep it in a cool place. It will keep good for some time.JELLIES. 19.-BLAN0 MANGE. Order. Ing-redients. Quantities. Method. I... Gelatine or Joz. 1 Put into a basin and allow to soak 2... isinglass Milk Ipint ... 1 all night. Milk I pint ... Put into a saucepan. 4... Sugar 4 lumps... Add. Lemon peel ... \ lemon... Add. 6... Allow the milk to simmer f to f hour. 7... Take out the lemon peel. Add the gelatine and any milk it may not have absorbed. 8... Stir until the gelatine is dissolved. 9... Moisten a mould with cold water. 10... Pour the blanc mange through a strainer into the mould, and put in a cool place. When quite set, loosen the edge with the finger; dip the mould tor a moment nearly to the brim in hot water. Invert a glass dish over it, and turn out. Note.—If the blanc KUiiioe is required to be made in one da3% pour hot milk over the gelatine, and allow it to soak during the time the remaining milk is simmering with the lemon. Any other flavouring can be used if preferred. 20.-TO COLOUR BLANO MANGE. After the gelatine is dissolved, pour off half of the mixture into another saucepan, and colour with a little cochineal.; moisten the mould as in the above recipe, and pour in some of the pink, about an inch deep in the mould; put in a cool place, and allow to set. Then, pour in an inch of white, and so on until the mould is full. The mixture in the saucepans must be kept just warm, but not hot, otherwise it would cause the colour to run when poured into the mould. SI.—JAUNE MANGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Blanc mange \\ pints... Make according to above recipe. mixture 2... When the gelatine is dissolved, strain into a jug, and allow to cool a little.362 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. JAUNE M.mGY.—co7iti7iued. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. » Yolks 01 eggs 2 Beat and add. 4... Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiliiu'. water for 5 minutes, stir all the time the same way. 5-- Moisten a mould with cold water and strain the mixture into it. 6... Put in a cool place to set. 7-- When quite firm, turn out on to a glass dish. 22.-OLARET JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leaf gelatine... I oz. Put in a basin, cover with water, and allow to soak |- hour. 2... Claret I quart Pour into a saucepan. bottle 3-.- Lemon rind ... J lemon... Add. 4... Cinnamon I stick ... Add. 5--- Nutmeg A little ... Add. 6... Red currant I dessert- Add. jelly spoonful 7... Allow these ingredients to simmer \ hour. 8... Empty the gelatine, with the water in which it has soaked, into a saucepan. 9... White of egg... I Add. 10... Shell of egg ... I Add. II... Castor sugar... f lb. ... Add. 12... Beat with an egg-whisk until the mixture has boiled a few minutes. 13... Strain through a napkin which has been dipped in hot water. 14... Strain the claret through a napkin also, and mix with the gelatine and sugar. 15... Moisten an open mould, and pour the mixture in. 16... When set, turn out, and serve with whipped cream in the centre.363 JELLIES. 23.-APPLE CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples ... 0 medium- r^eel, core, cut in quarters, and put sized into a saucepan. 2... Cold water ... I pint A A A Ada. Lemon rind ... ^ lemon... Arlr! 4... Cloves 3 A AA 5--- Sugar ... 4 table- Add, simmer gently until the apples spoonsful are nearly reduced to a pulp. 0... Take out the lemon peel and cloves, rub the apple through a sieve with a wooden spoon. 7... Gelatine Joz. Cover with cold water and soak \ hour, then melt over the fire, and add to the other ingredients. 8... Cochineal 4 tea- Add, mix well, and pour into a spoonful moistened mould. 9... When set, turn out on to a glass dish. 10... Custard or J pint ... Serve round the cake. whipped cream Note.—Pears may be cooked in this way. 24.—OORN-rLOUR MOULD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk I quart ... Put in a basin. 2... Corn-flour ... 4 table- Mix smooth with the milk and pour spoonsful into a saucepan. 3--- Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Sugar 30Z. Add more or less to taste. 5... Lemon peel ... I lemon... Cut very thin and add. 6... Bitter almonds 4 Blanch, bruise, and add to the milk. 7... Boil gently for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. 8... Strain through a coarse sieve into a mould to cool. 9... Sweet almonds \\ ozs. ... Blanch, cut in thin slices, and stick all over the mould. 10... Serve with preserves or stewed fruit. Note.—Vanilla or other flavouring can be substituted for the lemon and almonds if liked. For Rizine Mould, substitute Crystal Rizine for the Corn-flour. 25.-CHOaOLATE MOULD, with Com-Fhur. Make according to recipe for Corn-flour mould, but, in addition, dissolve 2 ozs. of chocolate in the mixture before pouring into the mould.3^4 A/VAAS COOKERY BOOK. SECTION XVII.—CAKES AND BISCUITS. ^ ..£=..«=3». l.-RICH CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Currants 3i lbs. ... Wash, rub, and put near the fire to dry. 2... rlour 2 lbs. Dry and sift. 3- Butter 3 lbs. ... 4... Jordan I lb. Blanch and beat to a paste. almonds 5- Eggs 2 Leave out J the Whites. 6... Sugar i^ lbs. ... 7... 8... Mace Cinnamon ... i oz. ... do. 9... Nutmegs li 10... Ginger \ oz. ... Collect all your ingredients round II... French brandy \ pint ... you. 12... Orange, To taste lemon, or citron peel 13... Work your butter to a cream. 14... Put in your sugar and work them well together. 15... Work in your almonds. 16... Add your eggs well beaten. 17... Add your brandy and spices. 18... Shake in your flour by degrees. 19... Put in your currants and peel. 20... Mix well together all the time. 21... Put it in a buttered tin. 22... Set in a quick oven and 4 hours will bake it.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 2-CITRON CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lemons I large or 2 small ] Rub the peel off the lemon with I the sugar, and put it into a basin 2... Lump sugar... 2 oz. ( with a little drop of boiling water ) to dissolve it. 3-- Butter 3 oz. ... 4... Self raising flour or best Genoese I lb. flour, if the latter it will Rub the butter lightly into the * flour and mix the citron with it. require i spoonful of baking powder 5.- Eggs 2 Reserve the whites, beat up the yolks. 6... Milk ipint ... Add to the dissolved sugar, mixing all well together. 7- 8... Butter your mould and tie paper round to give the cake room to rise. Mix the eggs with the flour. g... Beat up the reserved whites and stir them in very lightly. 10... Put your cake in the mould and set it in the oven immediately. II... Bake from i to hours. 3.-POUND CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I lb. ... Beat to a cream. 2... Yolks of eggs 6 yolks ... ) Beat well alone first, then beat up 3- Whites of eggs 3 f with the butter. 4... Flour I lb. ... Beat in, adding it by degrees. 5-- Sugar I lb. ... do. 6... Carraways ... I tea Add if liked. spoonful 7... 8... .. ... Beat all well for i hour. Put in a buttered tin and bake i hour in a quick oven.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 366 4-PLUM CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... ! r.. Flour i^lbs. ... ^ 2... Butter do. 3-- Currants i lb. ... 4... Stoned raisins \ lb. ... 5"- Sugar lilbs. ... 6... Yolks of eggs 14 7... Whites of eggs 8... Chopped lemon peel I lemon... Collect all your ingredients together. 9... Candied orange 3 oz. ... 10... Candied lemon do. II... Grated nut- meg \ nutmeg 12... Brandy I wine- glass 13... Work the butter to a cream. 14... Beat in your sugar. 15... Whisk your eggs \ hour, then add them to your butter and cream. 16... ... Add your flour and spices. 17... ... Beat all together i^ hours. 18... Mix in your brandy and peel and put your cake into a buttered tin. 19... Bake i\ hours. 5-PLAIN PLUM CAKE. Ingredients. Quantities. M ethod. Butter Flour Yeast Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs Sugar Milk 8 oz. ... 2 lbs. ... 3 table spoonsful 4 4 I lb. ... I Mix together. Add, and let it rise i^ hours. \ Beat separately and stir into the ) dough. Stir in. Add enough to make it a prf.;pei thickness.367 CAKES AND BISCUITS. PLAIN PLUM Q^k^Y.—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... 9... 10... Sherry or Marsala Ginger Grated lemon peel Currants or a few carraways I wine glass I teaspoon I lemon... 1 j^Add. II... I lb. ... Add last, put into a buttered tin and bake. 6.-ICING FOR CAKES (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- Sugar Whites of eggs lib. ... 4 Let it be the best loaf sugar pounded and sifted fine. Mix with the sugar and whisk for 2 or 3 hours till it looks white and thick, then brush it all over the top and sides of your cake. Set it at a distance before a clear fire, and keep turning it continu- ally that it may not turn colour, but a cool oven is best, where i hour will harden it. 7.-ICING FOR CAKES (2): Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- - 4- .. Whites of eggs Jordan almonds Loaf sugar ... 3 I lb. ... I lb. ... Beat to a froth. Pound very fine and mix very lightly with the eggs. Sift very fine and add it by degrees. Lay it on your cake and proceed us in preceding receipt.368 AIVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 8.-RICE CAKE. Order. Ingredients* Qucintities. Method. I... Ground rice... i lb. ... 2... Flour do. ... 1 Mix together. 3-- Sifted sugar... ilb. ... 4... Whites of eggs 4 Beat and add. 5- Stir till it begins to look white. 6... Yolks of eggs 4 Add and stir all well together. 7... Line a tin with buttered paper and bake. 9.-SPONGE CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... Powdered ^Ib. ... j Break the eggs over the sugar sugar > and beat all together for full half 2... Eggs 5 ) an hour. 3.- Flour Take the weight of 2-^ eggs. 4... Lemon peel... I lemon... Grate into the flour. Add the beaten eggs to the flour. 6... Beat all up and pour into a tin. 7... Put it instantly into a slow oven. 10-LEMON CAKE. Ingredients. Yolks of eggs 10 Whites of 5 eggs ' Powdered I lb. sugar Flour ilb. Grated lemon 2 lemon peel Lemon pulp ... r do. Quantities. Method. Beat up well together till they froth. Add and beat for ^ hour or more. Add. I Add. Butter your tin and bake in a quick oven. Do not close the oven door at on^e for fear it should scorch,CAKES Ai\D BISCUITS, 369 11.-FRANKF0RT CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Flour Warm milk ... Yeast 2 lbs. ... I pint ... 4 table spoonsful ilb. ... 8 6 oz. I lemon... Half ... A pinch... Dry and put in a pan. 1 Mix with the flour and put it in a r warm place to rise. 4... 5'-' 6... 7... 8... 9... 10,.. II... 12... Butter Eggs Sugar Lemon peel... Nutmeg Salt Beat to a cream. Beat and add. Add. Grate fine and add. Grate over. Add and mix all to a paste. Work the dough and paste together, and beat for J hour. Put in a buttered tin, and let it rise. Bake i^ hour in a moderate oven. 12.-PLAIN DOUGH CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 6... 7... 8... Flour Warm milk ... Yeast Sugar Salt Butter Sultana raisins Ijlb. ... i^ pint ... 3 table spoonsful \ lb. ... A pinch... \ lb. ... lib. ... Mix in the usual way, and put the y covered dough in a warm place 1 to rise. j> Mix with the dough, and let it rise. J Bake in a buttered tin.370 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 13-CINNAMON CAKE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Butter Milk Eggs Salt Yeast Sifted sugar. Powdered li lb. lO oz. I pint 2 A pinch I table spoonful 4 oz. Small spoonful Work together to a stiff paste, and roll out half an inch thick. Mark it out in squares or diamonds, but do not cut through. Mix and sprinkle all over the cake. Put it on a floured tin near the fire to rise. When risen bake in the usual way. 14.-POTATO CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes i lb. ... Cold boiled potatoes grated fine. 2... Sweet lib. ... Blanch, pound, and add. almonds 3- Sugar i lb. Add. 4... Yolks of eggs 5 Beat and add. 5... Whites of eggs 5 Beat to a froth and add. 6... Mix all together to a paste. 7... Butter a mould. 8... Grated biscuit Sprinkle over the mould. g... Put in the paste and bake i hour in a hot oven. 15.-ALM0ND CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Butter Sugar \ lb. lib. ilb. Beat the butter to a cream and work in the flour and sugar by degrees.371 CAKES AND JBISCUITS. ALMOND CAKE—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Candied peel 2 OZ. Cut in slices and add. 5- Eggs 3 Beat and add. 6... Put the paste in a shallow buttered tin. 7... White of egg I Beat and brush over. 8... Sweet A handful Blanch, cut in slices, and strew almonds over. g... Sifted sugar... Sprinkle a little over with the almonds. 10 .. Bake 15 minutes in a warm oven. 16.-LEMON BUNS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 3 Beat in a basin. 2... Sifted sugar... I lb. ... Add and beat together ^ hour. 3- Floilr I lb. ... Add and work in by degrees. 4... Lemon peel... I lemon... Grate fine and add. 5... Sweet I OZ, Blanch, pound, and add if liked. almonds 6... Divide in equal portions and bake on a buttered tin. 17--ALMOND BUNS. Ingredients. Quantities. Butter Flour Yolks of eggs Whole egg ... Yeast Milk Sweet almonds Sugar lb. lb. 3 table spoonsful ^ pint .. 2 or 3 OZ Beat with a wooden spoon. Work in by degrees. Work all together with the flour to form a paste, and divide into buns.372 JJV/^A'S COOKERY BOOK, ALMOND BUNS—(to»^mw^^f). ■ )rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... 10... II... Pounded almonds Sugar Bake on buttered tins. ) Mix and sprinkle over the buns \ while hot. 18.-RICE BUNS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice \ lb. ... Boil in milk until smooth and thick. 2... Flour i lb. ... Mix with the rice. 3- Butter \ lb. ... Work into the rice and flour. 4... Eggs 5 Beat and add. 5- Sugar To taste Add. 6... Nutmeg To taste Add. 7... Yeast I table Add and let the paste rise. Divide in equal portions. 8... spoonful g... Bake on a buttered tin. 19.~MILK CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... Flour Eggs Cinnamon ... Milk Candied peel Butter Sifted sugar... \\h, ... 2 Small spoonful I tea cupful I oz. cut small I oz. Mix all together to a paete, roll it \ out and cut into small rounds or other shapes. Bake in hot butter. Sprinkle over while hot.CAKES AND BISCUITS, 20-GINGERBREAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour i\ lb. ... Put in a large basin. 2... Butter 4 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 3-- Moist sugar... 2 oz. Add. 4.. Treacle I lb. ... Add, melt all together, and stir well. 5-- Ground ginger \ oz. Add to the flour. 6... Candied peel 3 oz. Cut and add to the flour. 7- Pour the melted butter and treacle on to the flour, and stir well. 8... Carraway 4 oz. Add, if liked. seeds 9... Soda I small tea spoonful 10... Cream of i tea ! Mix and add to the gingerbread, j stir in well, but quickly. tartar spoonful II... Hot water ... I tea J cupful 12... 1 Put it in a shallow buttered baking tin, and into the oven at once. 21.-GINGERBREAD NUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour Jilb. ... 2... Sugar ilb. ... 3- Butter i lb. ... 1 Mix all together and work in the 4... Ginger grated I OZ. j butter very smooth. 5- Grated nut- h J meg Jib. ... 6 .. Treacle 7... Cream 3 table 1 Warm together. Make all into a dough. Roll it out and divide it into thin 8... g... spoonsful cakes with a teacup, or small glass, or roll them round like nuts, and bake them in a slack oven on buttered tin plates.374 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 22.-MADELEINES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eggs Flour Butter Powdered sugar Lemon peel . Weight of the eggs Same weight Same weight I lemon... Weigh them in their shells. Break the eggs and mix the other ^ ingredients with them in a basin. Grate very fine and add. Stir with a wooden spoon. Divide in portions and put in small buttered moulds Bake in the oven. Turn out of the moulds and serve cold. 23.-BEIOCHE, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Yeast Warm water Flour Salt and su^a Butter Eggs I lb. ... I table spoonful 2 lbs. . \ oz, of each lb. , 4 7 Put on the pastry board and make a hole in the middle. Put in the hole. Add gradually until you have worked in all the flour and have a soft paste. Knead into a ball, put it into a floured pan, cover with a cloth and put it in a warm place to rise. Put on a board and make a hole in the middle. Melt in a little water and pour into the hole. Work soft with the hand and put in the hole. Beat and add. Knead the paste well. Beat up one by one and add to the paste, kneading thoroughly until it is smooth and soft.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 375 BRIOCHE—(coMf/ww^i/). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Dough ... When the dough first made has risen to twice its size, mix it with the paste. 12... ... Mix them well and knead. 13... Form the mixture into a large ball. 14... Flour Sprinkle over, cover the paste, and let it stand 4 hours in a warm place. 15... ... Roll it out and fold it again four or five times. 16... Make it into a ball again, flour it and let it stand 2 hours. 17... Roll it out and fold as before. 18... Put it in a cold place to get firm. 19... Form it into small loaves. 20... Egg I Beat up with a little water and brush over the loaves. 21... Bake on a tin in a very hot oven for \ hour. 22... Serve hot or cold. 24.—KRINGELN, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Butter Sugar Cinnamon or nutmeg White of egg Yolks of eggs Lemon juice... White of egg k lb. .. 4 oz. 5 oz. To taste A lemon ^ Mix all together to a smooth paste, and roll it out thin. Form into rings or other shapes. Brush over; bake in a moderate oven.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 376 25.—BRETZELN, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Butter Sugar Yolks of eggs Cream White of egg Sweet aliTionds 5 oz. ... 2 OZ. 2 OZ. 2 2 table spoonsful Mix well together, roll the paste out, and cut it in narrow strips. J Form the strips into figures of 8 about 4 inches long. Brush over them. Blanch and chop, and strew over them. Bake a light brown. 26.-SMALL LEMON CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White of egg I Beat to a froth. 2... Sifted sugar... 5 oz. ... Add and beat in. 3- Lemon juice... I tea Add. spoonful 4... Lemon peel... A pinch... Grate very fine and add. 5... Put in small heaps on waxed paper, and bake in a slow oven. 27-SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a froth. 2... Sifted sugar ... 6 OZ. Add. 3- Chocolate ... I OZ. Add in very fine powder. 4... Put in small heaps on paper, and bake in a slow oven.377 CAKES AND BISCUITS, Add. i lb. ... 3-- Sifted sugar 28.-CRISP SWEET BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... 1 2... Sifted sugar ... I lb. ... 3- Lemon peel ... I grated } Mix together and stir for half an hour. fine 4... Eggs 6 5... Divide in portions, and bake on a buttered tin. 29.-SMALL CREAM CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs 3 Beat up. 2... Cream 6 table Add to the eggs. spoonsful Sifted sugar... I table Add. spoonful 4... Butter ^oz. ... Add. Flour Work in enough to form a light paste. 6... Roll it out, and cut in small rounds. 7... Butter 2 oz. Fry or bake in hot butter, till lightly browned. 8... Sifted sugar... Sprinkle over while hot. 30.- -ALMOND BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Sift and dry, and put on the paste board and make a hole in the centre. 2... Butter i lb. ... Beat to a cream and add.378 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. ALMOND BISCUITS—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Sweet i lb. ... Blanch, pound, and add. almonds 5... Lemon peel ^ lemon Grate fine and add. 6... Eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... Mix well to a stiff paste, adding a little water if needed. 8... Roll out thin and cut in small cakes with the pastry cutter. 9... Sweet I oz. Chop fine. almonds 10... Sifted sugar... I oz. Add. II... White of egg I Beat and mix with the almonds and sugar to a paste. 12... Sprinkle the mixture over the cakes. 13... Sugar Sprinkle over. 14... Bake on buttered tins in a slow oven. 31.-ANIBEED BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i OZ. ... Warm and put in a basin. 2... Sifted sugar... 4 table Add. spoonsful 3- Aniseed I tea spoonful Bruise and add. 4... Eggs 2 Beat and add. 5... Flour Work in as much as is needed to make a firm paste. 6... Roll it out thin and cut in rounds. 7... Yolk of egg ... I Beat up with a little water and brush over. 8... Bake in a slow oven on a buttered tin.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 379 6... Sugar \ lb. ... 32-LITTLE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 1 lb. ... Beat to a cream. 2... Flour I lb. ... ) Add, mix together and make into 3--- Sugar i lb. ... i small cakes. 33.-MACAROONS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sweet almonds Sugar Rose water ... Whites of eggs Powdered sugar I lb. I lb. Blanch and pound. Add. Add a little to keep the almonds from oiling. Beat to a froth, put them in and beat all well together. Drop them on wafer paper. Sprinkle over them and put them into the oven. 34-CHEESECAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Good curd ... \ pint ... 2... Eggs 4 3-- Rich cream ... 3 table spoonsful Mix all well together and bake in 4... Grated nut- 1 4 > patty tins lined with a good puff meg paste. 5-- Ratafia I tea spoonful38o MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 35.-LEMON CHEESECAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i lb. ... Just warm it. 2... Loaf sugar ... 1 IV. t lb. Stir into the butter. 3-.. Grated lemon 2 lemons Stir in when the sugar is dissolved. peel and the juice of I strained 4... Mix all well together and pour into patty pans lined with puft paste. 5- Blanched If liked... Put a few on the top of each. almonds 36.-TIPSY CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stale sponge cakes or i large round stale sponge cake. 8 Put into a glass dish. 2... Sherry, Mar- sala, or any other white sweet wine Pour over till the cake is thoroughly soaked. 3-.. Sweet almonds ilb. ... Blanch, peel, cut into thin slices and stick all over the cake. 37.-CUSTARD FOR TIPSY CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk li pint ... Put in an enamelled saucepan. 2... Sugar lib. ... Add. 3- Lemon peel... I lemon Add; let the milk boil a few minutes. then take out the peel,381 CAKES AND BISCUITS. CUSTARD FOR TIPSY CkKE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Arrowroot ... Cold milk ... 3 table spoonsful A few spoonsful 1 Mix smooth together in a basin. Pour it gradually to the boiHng milk. Boil for about 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the fire and stir the custard till it is cold. When cold pour it over the cake. 38.~PETITS CHOUX. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water I pint ... Put in a saucepan. 2... Salt A pinch... Add. 3--- Sugar I oz. Add. 4... Butter I oz. Add. 5... Lemon peel... I lemon Grate and add; boil up. 6... When the water boils take the sauce- pan off the fire. 7... Flour Add gradually enough to make a thin paste stirring well all the time in the saucepan. 8... Eggs 3 Break and beat separately, adding them to the paste one at a time. g... Work the paste until it drops from the spoon. 10... White of egg I Beat to a froth; add and let the paste stand i or 2 hours. II... Divide the paste into balls the size of an egg and put them on a buttered tin. 12... Yoik of egg ... I Beat up and brush over the balls. 13... Sweet 2 oz. Blanch and chop fine, and strew over almonds the balls.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. PETITS Z^0\3y.—{continued). Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... ... Whipped cream Preserve Let them stand 15 minutes. Put them in a slow oven and watch them carefully, as they are soon done. When they are swollen, hollow, and a light brown colour, take them out. Make a little hole in the side. Put a spoonful in each ball. Use in place of whipped cream, if preferred. 39.— BABA. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... Yeast Warm water Flour \ oz. ... \ pint ... I lb. ... • Mix together. Mix \ lb. with the yeast, and put it aside. Make a hole in the rest of the flour. 5... 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... Salt Sugar Butter Eggs Eggs Rum Sultana raisins Currants Candied peel Powdered saffron A pinch... \ oz. lib. ... 3 1 wine glassful 2 oz. 2 oz. I oz. A pinch... Put into the flour, and knead all well together. Beat up one by one, and add. When well mixed, add the yeast mixed with flour. Add. Add. Clean, dry, and add. Cut in thin slices and add. Add.383 CAKES AND BISCUITS. BAB A—{continued)* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 16... Powdered sugar I oz. Add. 17... Warm milk ... Add a little if the paste is too firm; it should be slack. 18... Put the mixture in a buttered mould, and let it stand near the fire 5 or 6 hours in cold weather, but a shorter time in summer. 19... When well risen, bake in a very moderate oven hour. 20... When brown it is done. 21... Serve hot or cold on a folded napkin. 40.-SAYARIN, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Put in a basin, and make a hole in the centre. 2 .. Yeast \ OZ. 1 Put in the hole, and work part of 3- Warm milk ... ipint ... ) the flour into it. 4... Cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place, till it has risen. Warm milk ... i^ pint ... Add. 6... Eggs 2 Beat and add, and mix well with a wooden spoon, stirring in all the flour by degrees. 7... Eggs 2 Add one at a time. 8... Butter 10 oz. ... Beat with the hand^ then add. 9... Salt A pincl:... Add. 10... Sifted sugar... iib. ... Add. II... Candied peel 2 OZ. Slice thin, and add. 12... Warm milk ... Small quantity Add and mix thoroughly. 13... Eggs 5 Beat and add one by one. 14... Butter Butter a circular mould, shaped like a ring.334 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SAY ARIN—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 15,.. Sweet A handful Blanch, peel, and chop fine, and almonds sprinkle in the mould. 16... ... ... Fill the mould three parts full, and let it stand in a warm place. 17... ... When the paste has risen and fills the mould, put it in the oven. 18... Let it bake ^ an hour, turn it out, and let it stand 20 minutes to cool. 19... Sugar and Make a thick syrup. water 20... Maraschino ... I wine Add to the syrup; any other liqueur glassful will do as well. 21... Brush the syrup several times over the cake, till it is quite saturated. 41.-KING CHARLES' CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sweet i lb. ... Blanch and pound in a mortar. almonds 2... White of egg I Add to moisten the almonds. 3-- Orange flower 2 large Add to the almonds. watei; spoonsful 4... Sifted sugar... ilb. ... Work in by degrees. 5... Salt A pinch Add. 6... Lemon peel... I lemon... Grate and add. 7... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add, and mix well. 8... Whites of eggs 4 Beat to a stiff froth and add. 9... Puff paste ... Line a shallow tart dish. 10... Pour the mixture in, but see that it does not run over the edge. II... Bake in a cool oven. 12... White paper Cover the cake when it begins to brown. 13... ... Serve hot as soon as it has nsen.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 385 42-MERINGUES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Whites of eggs Sifted sugar... Waxed paper Whipped cream 8 \ lb. ... Biat to a stiff froth. Mix in quickly. Put spoonsful of the mixture on the paper in little oval heaps and see that they do not touch. Bake in a slow oven and if they begin to brown leave the door open. Detach them from the paper at once and leave them at the door of the oven. Before serving fill one oval with cream and put another on it enclosing the cream between the two. 43.-GIMBLETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Flour Sifted sugar... Water Hot water ... I lb. ... 10 oz. ... 1 Mix together to a smooth paste and \ let it stand for 2 hours. Roll it out and cut it into all kinds of shapes. Have this ready on the fire. When it nearly boils throw in the cakes. Stir them in the water with the skimmer. When the cakes rise take them out and let them drain. Put them in the oven on a buttered tin. When nearly done take them out. Beat to a froth. Roll the cakes in the white of egg and put them back in the oven to brown. Serve cold. ^ ^ 10... II... 12... 13... White of egg IMYRAS COOKERY BOOK. -36 44—DARIOLES, a let Duchesse, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I oz. 1 Beat up the egg and mix with the 2... Egg I ( flour. 3- Yolks of eggs 6 Beat and add. 4... Sugar i lb. ... Add. 5- Macaroons ... 6 Crush and add. 6... Salt A pinch... Add and mix well together. 7- Egg I Beat up and add the yolk and white. 8... Cream I pint ... Add. 9... Orange Add a few crystallized. flowers 10... Candied peel I oz. Cut small and add. II... Angelica I oz. Cut and add. 12... Preserved A few ... Add and mix all well together. cherries 13... Line some small buttered moulds with puff paste. 14... Fill them with the mixture. 15... Bake in the oven. 16... Sugar Sift over them and serve very hot. 45-GENOESE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Flour Sugar k lb. ... 10 oz. ... 1 Mix together in a basin. 3- Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Orange flower I table Add. water spoonful 5-- Brandy I small Add and mix all together. glass 6... Eggs 6 Break and beat one by one, and add to the mixture. 7 Butter i lb. ... Melt and add to the paste. 8... When it is well mixed, and forms a smooth paste, pour it on to a buttered tin.387 CAKES AND BISCUITS. GENOESE CKKE^—icontinued). Order. Method 9... Spread it out ^ inch thick. 10... Bake in the oven. II... When it has risen to i inch thickness, take it out. 12... Turn the paste, and put it back in the oven to dry the under part. 13... Cut the paste in lozenges or hngers. 46.-CROQUIGNOLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.«r Flour i lb. ... Put in a basin. 2..> Powdered I lb. ... Add. sugar 3- Candied I large Beat to a powder and add. orange pinch blossoms 4... Butter I oz. Add. 5-- Salt A pinch... Add. 6... Whites of eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... Mix all to a thick paste. 8... Drop in very small heaps on to a buttered tin. g... White of egg I Beat to a froth, and brush over. 10... Bake in a slow oven. II... Serve cold. 47.- -MILANESE ROLLB» (^rder. Ingredients. Quantities. Mevtiod. I... Flour f lb. ... Dry and sift. Powdered f lb. ... Add. sugar 3.- Yolks of eggs 3 Beat and add. 4... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a froth, and add. c cMYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 388 MILANESE ROLLS—(cowfmw^if). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Salt A pinch... Add. 6... Lemon peel ... I lemon... Chop fine, and add. 7- Mix well together, without adding any water. 8... Divide into equal portions, and shape like rolls. g... Bake for lo or 15 minutes in a slow oven on buttered tins. 10... Serve cold. Note.—The paste can be made into all kinds of shapes, and, if liked, sprinkled with browned slices of almond, with pieces of angelica or preserved cherries, and brushed over with yolk of egg, before baking. 48.-CROQUETS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sifted sugar ... Sweet almonds Flour Essence of lemon Yolk of egg .. 5 I lb. 12 oz. I lb. A few drops Break into a basin. Add. Blanch, cut in slices, and add. Add gradually, and mix well. Add, if liked. Stir till the mixture is quite smooth. Divide it in fingers. Brush over them, Bake in a slow oven on a buttered tin. Serve cold.389 CAKES AND BISCUITS, 49.—LUNCHEON OAKE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Baking powder Castor sugar... Flour Sultanas Candied peel Eggs Milk Jib. I good tea- spoonful Jib. ... I lb. ... lib. ... I oz. 3 I gill ... Beat to a cream. Add. Add gradually. Dredge in gradually. Pick, cut in halves, and add. Cut in thin strips and add. Whisk the whites and yolks sepa- rately. Add to the yolks. Add the yolks and whites to the other ingredients, and beat well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a good oven about i to \\ hours. 50.—ANOTHER LUNCHEON OAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. Put into a basin. 2... Baking powder I tea- spoonful. Add. 3-- Butter 6 ozs. Rub into the flour. 4... Moist sugar ... Jib. ... Add. 5-.. Ground all- |oz. Add. 6... spice Sultanas Jib. ... Pick, cut in halves, and add to the other ingredients. 7... Currants ilb. ... Wash, dry well, and add. 8... Golden syrup.. Jib. ... Add. 9... Eggs 3 Beat the whites and yolks separately. 10... Milk I gill ... Mix with the yolks. II... Add the eggs and milk, and beat all the ingredients well together. 12... Put into a greased cake-tin and bake in a moderately quick oven to 2 hours. Note.—It is a good plan to place a piece of paper over the top of the tm to prevent the cake burnmg. In order to make the cake a dark colour, use carbonate of soda instead of baking powder ; in which case warm the milk, dissolve the soda in it, and add last of all to the other ingredients.390 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 51.—LUNCHEON CAKE, very economical Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fl Put into a basin. 2... jDaking powder I dessert Add. spoonful 3--- v^larinea drip- 1 IK ^ ID. Rub into the flour. ping flcivoiired with lemon. 4... Allspice I tea- Add. (ground) spoonful J'" Sugar lb. Add. 6... Sultanas 6 ozs. Pick and add. 7... Candied peel 2 ozs. Cut in thin slices and add. 8.:. Egg I Beat well. 9... Milk ipint ... Mix with the egg, and add to the other ingredients. 10... Beat the whole well, put into a greased cake-tin, and bake I to 14 hours. Note.—Place a piece of lemon peel in the saucepan, while the dripping is being clarified, in order to flavour. 52.- SEED CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour |lb. ... Put into a basin. 2... Baking powder 3 tea- Add. spoonsful iib. ... 3-- Castor sugar... Add. 4... Butter Jib. ... 5.- Clarified drip- 2 ozs. ping, flavoured J- Rub into the flour. as in above J recipe. 6... Ground or un- ground cara- way seeds. I dessert spoonful Add. 7... 8... Eggs 2 Beat the whites and yolks separately. Milk IJ gills ... Mix with the yolks. 9... Add the eggs and milk to the other ingredients; beat thoroughly. 10... Put the mixture into a greased cake- tin, and bake hour.391 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 53.—ROCK CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour fib. ... Put into a basin. 2... Baking powder I dessert Add. 3"' Butter 3 ozs. Rub into the flour. 4... Castor sugar... ilb. ... Add. 5..- Sultanas ilb. ... Pick, halve, and add. 6... Currants 2 ozs. Wash, dry, and add. 7... Eggs Beat well. 8... Milk Igiii Add, with the eggs and milk, to the other ingredients ; beat well. Place in small rocky lumps on a greased baking tin or patty-pans; bake ^ hour. 54.—BREAD, made with German Yeast. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour If lbs. ... Put into a basin. 2... Salt A little ... Add. Tepid water... 3 gills ... Pour into a small basin. 4... German yeast |oz. ... Dissolve in the water. 5... Make a hole in the centre of the flour, pour in the water and yeast. 6... Mix in gradually all the flour. Knead well till a smooth dough. 7... Cover with a clean cloth and stand near the fire. Leave the dough to rise about l hour. 8... Knead up again, form into loaves or place in a tin, and bake in a mode- rate oven IJ to 2 hours. 55.—TEA OAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Dough Made as in above recipe, and allow to rise i hour. 2... Butter ^Ib. ... Add. Sugar (castor) |lb. Add. Knead well; form into cakes. 4... Yolk of egg ... Brush over the tops to glaze. 5--- Bake about 20 minutes.392 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 56.—SCONES made with Baking Powder. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour Iflbs. ... Put into a basin. 2... Baking powder 2 dessert Add. spoonsful Salt A little ... Add. 4... Butter Jib. ... Rub into the flour. 5... Castor sugar... Jib. ... Add. 6... Sultanas 6 oz. Pick and add. 7... Yolks of eggs 3 Beat up. 8... Whites of eggs 4 Beat up. Add the eggs to the flour, &c. Q .. Milk Add until the mixture is the consis- tency of dough 10... Knead well. Press out to the thick- ness of about 1 inch. Cut into three-cornered pieces. II... Yolk of egg ... Brush over the scones. Bake in a quick oven 20 to 30 minutes. 57.-ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vienna flour... I|lb. ... Put into a basin. 2... Salt a'little ... Add. 3* • • Milk Ipint ... Warm. 4... German yeast ijoz. ... Dissolve in the milk. 5--- Water I gill ... Add. Pour the milk and water into the centre of the flour. Knead well into a smooth paste. 6... Cover with a clean cloth, stand near the fire, and allow to rise I hour. 7... Knead well. Stand the dough near the fire again, and allow to rise about 20 minutes. 8... Form into rolls, and bake in a mode- rate oven J hour. 58.—ROLLS made with Baking Powder. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vienna flour... If lb. ... Put into a basin. 2... Salt A little ... Add. Baking powder I dessert Add. spoonful 4... Whites of eggs 2 Beat up and add. Milk About Add sufficient to make the mixture ipint into a smooth dough. 6... Form into rolls and bake about 20393 COMPOTES OF FRUIT. SECTION XVIII.—COMPOTES OF FRUIT. l.-APRICOT COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 4... 5--- 6... 7... 8... Apricots Sugar Water 6 or 8 ... k lb. ... ^ pint ... Choose them not too ripe. Cut them in two and take out the stones. 1 Boil in the fryingpan. Put in the apricots. L-et them boil and skim. When the fruit is tender, put it into a deep dessert dish. Reduce the syrup, pour over, and serve cold. 2.-APPLE MARMALADE. Ordsr. Ingredients. Quantities. i Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Apples Powdered sugar Vanilla, kmon or cinnamon flavouring Butter 12 1 lb. ... 2 OZ. Peel, take out the core, and chop into an earthen jar half full of water. ^Add. JMVRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 394 APPLE MARMALADE—(cow^mw^ff). Order. I Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cover the earthen jar and put it in the oven. Let it bake 20 minutes. Pass the apples through a cullender. Put them into a stewpan and stir till all the water is evaporated. Dress on a dessert dish and sprinkle sugar over, and serve cold. 3—APPLES, «w heurre. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. Small apples Slices of toast (crumb) Butter Sugar Butter 1^ oz. Peel and take out the core, w^ithout cutting the fruit. Cut into slices proportioned to the size of the apples, and butter them. Melt in a pie-dish. Put in the toast. Put the apples on the toast. Put into each core-hole. Put a little lump on the top of the sugar, and add more of both as needed. Put the dish in the oven to bake. 4.—APPLES, heuvre et aux confitures. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Apples Sugar 12 3 oz. ... Peel and take out the core. Melt in the frying pan over a slow fire, and stir to prevent burning. Put in the apples and three parts cook them.COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 39 S APPLES, au beuvre et mix confitures—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Qu3.ntities. Method. Apricot or 1 any other ! Put both at the bottom of a pie- preserve ( dish. 5- Butter 6... Fresh butter... Put into the core-hole of each apple. 7- Sugar Do. 8... Fill up the spaces between the apples with preserve. g... Powdered Sprinkle over all. sugar lO... Bake. II... Preserved Put one (if liked) on each apple. cherries 12... Serve hot on the same dish. 5. —APPLES, a VAnglaise, C'vder. j Ingredients. | Quantities. Method. 2... 3 4... 5--- 6... 7... 8... Fine apples ... Crushed sugar Water Butter Slices of bread 3 01-4 ilb. 2 or 3 spoonsful Peel and cut into quarters. Put into a stewpan on the fire. Pour over the sugar to help it to melt, and stir with a spoon to prevent it sticking to the bottom. When the sugar is melted, put in the quarters of apple. Put to melt in the frying pan. Fry in the butter. Arrange the fried bread under the apples on a dish. Pour the syrup over and serve hot. •6.-APPLE CHARLOTTE (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. | Method. I... Apples 8 ... Peel, core, and cut in slices. 2... Put them into a stewpan with a little water.MYJ^A'S COOKERY BOOK. 30 APPLE CHARLOTTE (i)—(continued). Ingredients. Sugar Lemon juice or vanilla flavouring, or cinnamon Powdered sugar Apricot jam Butter Quantities. 3 oz. 2 oz. If liked. Method. Add. Cover the stewpan and let it simmer 2o minutes. Add towards the end. Let it get cold. Butter a plain mould and line it with slices (crumb) of a stale loaf fried in clarified butter. Join the slices neatly. Fill the mould with the apple and apricot jam. Cover the top with slices of bread fried in butter, and on the top put a plate with a weight on it. Bake in a quick oven | to i hour. Drain the butter out, turn out care- fully and serve hot. 7.-APPLE CHARLOTTE (2.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I OZ. ... Melt over a slow fire. 2... Butter a plain mould with it. Spong cakes 6 Cut in slices and put close together all round the mould. 4... Apple mar- malade Fill the middle. 5... With the spoon make a small hole in the middle of the marmalade. 6... Red currant jelly Put into this hole. i397 COMPOTES OF FRUIT. APPLE CHARLOTTE (2)—continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... Put the mould in the oven and bake f hour. 8... Turn out the Charlotte Russe on to a dessert dish. 9... Serve cold. 8.-APPLES WITH RICE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... II... 12... 13-. Apples Sugar Lemon juice... Rice Milk Lemon peel ... Milk Preserve 12 \ lb. ... I lemon... i'ib. ::: To taste I lemon .. Peel and core them, without dividing. 1 Put on the fire to make a syrup. Put in the apples to stew. Put in a saucepan. Add and let the rice swell. Add. Pare thin and add. Add as required. When the rice is tender, take out the lemon peel. Put the rice on a dish, and place the apples on it. Bake a light brown. Put a little on each apple before serving. 9. —APPLES^ croustade. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 4... Puff paste ... Flour Yolk of egg ... I Line a shallow tart dish. Fill the tart. Brush over the paste, and bake it in the oven. When done, turn out the flour, and put the paste on a dish.39S MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 12... Serve directly the eggs rise. APPLES, en crousfade—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Fill the tart with a layer of apple marmalade. 6... Apples 6 Peel and core, without dividing. 7... Stew whole in sugar and water syrup. 8... Put them on the marmalade, and press them down a little. 9... Apricot jam ... ... Put a little on each apple. TO... Preser'N ed Put on the apricot jam. cherries II... ... ... Serve cold. 10- APPLE MERINGUES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples 10 oz. ... Peel, cut in quarters, core them, and cut in thin slices. 2... Butter 6 oz. I'.Ielt in a stewpan. Sugar 6 oz. Add. 4... Lemon peel ... I lemon... Add to flavour. 5-- Put in the apples, and let them simmer till tender. 6 Pile them on a dish. 7... Whites of eggv 4 Beat to a froth. 8... Powdered 3 oz. ... Add and beat in. g... sugar Spread an even layer of the beaten froth over the apples. 10... Sifted sugar... Sprinkle over. II... Put in a slow oven. 1COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 399 ll.-APPLE SUEDOISE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... A 1 Apples ... 10 or 11 Jrare and core, but do not divide. 2... Syrup I pint ... Make a light syrup, and stew the apples in it. 3-- See that they do not break. 4... ... ... When done, drain, and arrange in a pyramid on a dish. 5... Apricot jam ... Put a little in each apple. U... Apple Fill in all the spaces between the marmalade apples. 7... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a froth. 8... Sifted sugar ... 2 table Add. spoonsful 9... Put the icing over the apples. 10... Sifted sugar... Sprinkle over. II... Sweet I oz. Blanch, cut in strips, and stick all almonds over the surface. 12... Put in a moderate oven till the apples are quite hot. I3-- See that the almonds do not brown too much. 12.-CHERRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cherries I quart ... Cut off the stalks. 2... Sugar and 4 oz. to I Put in a stewpan and skim when it water pint boils. 3-. Raspberry 2 wine Add. juice glasses- full 4... Put in the cherries, and when done pile them on a glass dish. 5- ... Reduce the syrup and pour over them.MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 400 13-STRAWBERRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Strawberries Powdered sugar Red currant jelly 14.-GC I quart ... I small pot )OSEBE Pick and arrange in a dish. Sprinkle over and let them stand. Melt and pour boiling over the fruit. Serve cold. RRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Gooseberries Hot water ... Cold water ... Vinegar Sugar, water 15"C I quart ... i\ pint ... 4 oz. to I pint IHESTN Choose them green, pick them, and put them in a stewpan. Add and leave them on the fire till the gooseberries rise to the top. I Mix \ take the fruit out of the hot \ water and put them into the cold ( to recover their colour. Melt for the syrup; stew and serve the fruit like other compotes. UT COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Chestnuts ... Welter Lemon juice Sugar Lemon peel... 50 1 pint ... I lemon... i lb. ... I lemon... Peel and throw into boiling water. Boil them till they are tender. Crush them in a mortar. ) Mix and put in the chestnuts as they f are crushed. Take them out and let them drain. Put the water and lemon juice on the fire. Add. Add, and when the syrup has thickened put in the chestnuts. Simmer gently till they are done.401 COMPOTES OF FRUIT, 16.-PINE APPLE COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pineapple ... I Cut off the top and pare the re- mainder. 2... ••• ... Cut it in slices and divide these in half. Sugar, water Make a syrup in the usual way. 4... Put in the fruit and let it simmer very gently one hour. 5... Pour it into a basin and leave it till next day. 6... Drain the slices of pine apple and arrange them on a dish. 7... 8... Strain the syrup and reduce it. Pour it over the fruit. g... Put the cut off top in the centre of the dish. 10... Dried cherries ) Use to decorate the dish before II... Angelica ) serving. 17.-COMPOTE OP CARROTS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Carrots Boiling water Boiling water Sugar Chopped lemon peel Lemon juice. fib. I lb. 1 lemon... 2 lemons Cut in inch-long very fine slices. Throw them in to blanch, then let them drain. Put them in a stewpan. Add till the carrots are covered. Add. Add when the water is reduced one- half. Strain and add. Simmer till the syrup thickens, but do not let it turn colour. Pour it into a dish. Stir frequently while it cools or the carrots will sink in a compact mass. D D402 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 18.-0RANGE SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Oranges 6 Choose them very ripe, peel them, and cut them in slices. 2... Put them in a deep glass dish. Powdered 3 or 4 oz. Sprinkle thickly over, and let them sugar stand an hour. 4... Brandy or I glassful Pour over, stir a little, and serve. sherry 19-ORANGE COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Oranges 6 Mark the skin in narrow stripes. 2... Take off each alternate stripe with a sharp knife. 3- Prick them all over. 4... Cold water ... Put them in and leave them some hours. 5-- Boil in the water until tender. 6... Sugar, water Make a syrup, and boil the oranges for a few minutes. 7... • Arrange them on a dish, and pour the reduced syrup over them. Note.—Orange compote is also made of the peeled quarters of oranges gently boiled hi syrup. Care must be taken not to break the skin dividing the quarters. 20—PEAR COMPOTE, a Veau. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pears 8 Peel, take out the core, pips, and half the stalk. 2... Sugar \ lb. ) Melt and boil in an enamelled stew- 3... Water i i'mt ... ) pan.403 COMPOTES OF FRUIT, PEAR COMPOTE, a Veau—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Skim. 5-- Put in the pears. 6... Lemon I slice ... Put in to keep the pears white. 7... Cinnamon ... Small Add. piece 8... When the pears are tender put them in a dessert dish, pour the syrup over, and serve hot or cold. Note.—A glass of brandy added to the sugar improves the flavour of the pears. 21—PEAR COMPOTE, au vhu Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pears 6 or 8 ... Leave them whole or divide them as preferred. 2... Peel and take out the core and pips, and cut off half the stalk. 3- Put the pears into an enamelled stewpan. 4... Water \ pint ... Pour over. 5- Cinnamon ... Small 6... Cloves piece 2 |Add. 7... 8... Sugar \ lb. ... Put the stewpan on the fire and let the sugar melt, leaving the cover on the pan. 9.., Claret I wine Add when the pears are half done. glass 10... When the pears are red and tender, stand them on a dessert dish. II... Take the cinnamon and cloves out of the syrup, reduce it, and pour it over the pears, and serve hot or cold as preferred. D D 2MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 404 22-PRUNE COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. I... Prunes I lb. ... Put into a deep dish. 2... Wash well in cold water. 3-- Cold water ... Drain and put them in a stewpan. 4... I wine glass > Pour over. 5... Claret do. 6... Sugar i lb. ... 7... Cinnamon ... Small Add. piece 8... Let them stew i hour. 9... Serve hot or cold as preferred. 23.-MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. Ingredients. Sugar Water Lemon juice Strawberries Raspberries .. Currants Isinglass Quantities. I lb. .. i pint . I lemon. Method. I Make a thick syrup and strain it. Add to the syrup. Red and white ones. Take also in both colours. Also red and white. Pick the fruit carefully and let it simmer a few minutes in the syrup. Take it out with a skimmer and put it to drain. Dissolve in water and add to the syrup. Let it get cool. Oil a mould and drain it. Stand it on pounded ice. Pour in a little of the jelly and let it get firm.COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 405 .—Good new milk may be substituted for the cream if this cannot be obtained Note. MACEDOINE OF Y^^m^—{continued). Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... Arrange some of the fruit on the jelly, alternating the colours. Pour in some more jelly. Continue putting in alternate layers of fruit and jelly till the mould is full, finishing with jelly. Let it set on ice or in a refrigerator. Dip the mould in hot water before turning the jelly out. Note.—Macedoines of stone fruit are made in the same way; peaches, apricots, plums, &c., are cut in slices, boiled in the syrup, and arranged in the jelly in the manner already described. 24-GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... Green goose- berries Water Sugar Cream Grated nut- meg Lemon peel.. I lb. ... \ pint ... 10 oz. ... I pint ... A little ... \ lemon Pick carefully and put in a saucepan. Add. Add, and boil the gooseberries until quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Grate the lemon peel very fine and y add with the cream and nutmeg, ( and mix well. Serve cold in a glass dish.4o6 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. SECTION XIX.—PRESERVES. l.-APRICOT PRESERVE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Apricots Sugar Very ripe lb. to 2 lbs. of fruit I3-- 14.. 15- 16. Powdered sugar Stones Cold water Brandy Peel, cut in half, and take out the stones. In large pieces. Put a layer of fruit in a large earthen pan. Put a layer of sugar on the fruit, and repeat alternate layers till all is used. Put a thick layer over the last layer of fruit. Let it stand 24 hours. Break them, and throw the kernels into hot water. Take them out, and pour cold water over them. Skin, and cut them in thin slices. Put the apricots in the preserving pan. Boil for I hour, stirring all the time. Towards the end put in the kernels, and stir well. When the preserve hangs in a thread from the spoon, it is done. Pour into the jam pots, and let it stand uncovered 24 hours. Cover the preserve with white paper dipped in brandy. Tie a second paper over the top of the pots.PRESERVES. 407 2.—APRICOTS^ preserved whole. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Apricots 13., 14., 15- Sugar Water Kernels Choose them large and not too ripe. Open them just enough to remove the stones. Weigh them. Allow I full pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put the sugar in the pan. Put in about | pint to each pound of sugar. Boil till it becomes a syrup. Put in the apricots a few at a time, as there is room in the pan. Boil rather quickly, and turn them when done on one side. When sufficiently boiled they become transparent. Take them out carefully, and put them in jars. When all are done, drain the syrup from them into the pan. Boil and reduce the syrup, and strain it into the jars. Blanch and peel the kernels, and add a few to each jar. The apricots will swell as they become cool, and the syrup will form a jelly round them. Note.—Peaches are preserved in the same way as apricots. 3.-CHERRY JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Cherries Red currants 6 lbs. ... I lb. ... Choose them large and ripe. Cut off the stalks, pick out the stones wiih a needle, breaking the skin as little as possible. String, crush, and strain the juice into a basin.4o8 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, CHERRY ]AM--(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 12... 13... 14... Raspberries ... Sugar Paper Brandy 4- i lb. ... RED CU Crush and strain in the same way. Mix the two, and strain again into the preserving pan. Add the cherries. Allow f lb. to each pound of fruit and juice. Boil ^ hour, stirring frequently. Take off the scum as it rises. When done, pour into pots. Tit ctiinH till nf*Yf Hnv Cut in rounds to fit the pots. Dip the papers in and lay on the jam. Tie a second piece of paper over the pots. rRRANT JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Currants Sugar Note.—Raspber 5-CUE 4 lbs. 4 lbs. ... ries are somet .RANT , String and put in the preserving pan. Crush small and add. Boil up, and then let the fruit boil fast for 7 or 8 minutes. Cover and tie down when cold. imes added to improve the flavour. FELLY, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... 2... 3- 4... Red currants White currants Raspberries ... Very ripe ^the quantity i the quantity String them into a basin. String and add. Pick and add. Crush the fruit by degrees through a sieve, into a basin.PRESERVES. CURRANT JELLY, French receipt—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Sugar A few drops I lb. to T lb. Put the pulp that remains in the preserving pan. Add and let the fruit swell on the fire. Strain it through a linen cloth, and add to the other juice. Weigh all the juice. Add to the juice the same weight. Let it stand 2 hours. Let it boil up, then skim. Boil 20 minutes longer on a moderate fire. When done pour it into pots. It should be a clear thin jelly. Cover with paper in the usual way, and keep in a dry place. 6-BLACK CURRANT JELLY. This is made in the same way, when it forms a clear dark jelly, or it can be made in the usual way, without straining the fruit. 7-WHITE CURRANT JELLY. This is made in the same way, entirely of white currants, and flavoured with a little lemon peel. 8.-G00SEBERRY JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Gooseberries 6 lbs. ... Cut off the tops and stalks, and boil them for 6 or 7 minutes. 2... Sugar 4ilbs. ... Crush and add. Boil for 1 hour, stirring and taking off the scum. 4... ••• •*. Pour into pots and tie down when cold.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. Note, made in the same way. .—Plum jam is 9.-GRAPE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Black grapes Take off the stalks and throw them into the preserving pan. 2... Boil a few minutes. Put them on a sieve, and crush them with a spoon. 4... Boil the strained juice, and stir until it is reduced one-half. 5... Take off the scum. 6 .. It is done when it jellies in cooling. 7... 8... 9... Pour it into the pots. Put the pots in a very cool oven for 24 hours. Cover and tie down in the usual way. Note.—A few ripe pears, peeled and cut in quarters, are an improvement to this preserve ; they are added after No. 4 in the above receipt. Sugar, at the rate of one- third the weight of the reduced preserve, may be added; this will make it keep better, and the jelly will then need less boiling. lO.-GREENGAGE JAM. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Greencra2:es Sugar Cut them in half and take out the stones. Weigh the fruit and put it in the preserving pan. Add \ lb. to each pound of fruit. Let them boil very slowly at first, then more quickly. Skim carefully and stir all the time. Boil for f hour, stirring frequently. Pour into the pots, and cover and tie down as usual.PRESERVES. 411 ll.-MULBERRY JAM. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Mulberries Sui^ar Choose them ripe and sound. Put them in the preserving pan and simmer gently to bring out the juice. Throw them on to a hair sieve. To every quart of juice that drops through, allow 3 lbs. of sugar. Put the sugar and juice on the fire and boil up. Skim, throw in the mulberries, and let them boil ^ hour. Pour all into a basin and leave it till next day. Boil up again in the preserving pan, and see that the mulberries are not crushed. Pour into the pots and tie down as' usual. 12.-0RANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Seville oranges Water Sugar Water lbs. to each pound of pulp I pint Choose them very ripe. Put them in the preserving pan. Add enough to cover them. Let them boil till perfectly tender. ' Change the water 2 or 3 times. Drain them, take off the peel, and remove the pips. Weigh the pulp and put it back in the pah. Add to the pulp. The last water the oranges were boiled in. Boil all together for 20 minutes.MYJ^A'S COOKE7^ V BOOK. 412 ORANGE MARMALADE—(cowfww^^f). Order. 1 Ingredients. t Quantities. Method. II... 12... 13... ••• ••. Cut the peel in thin slices and add. Boil for 10 minutes more. Pour into the pots and tie down when cold. 13.-RASPBERRY JELLY. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Raspberries ... 4 lbs. ... ) Put together on a damp cloth over 2... Red currants I lb. ... ) a basin. 3-- Strain the juice through, by twisting the cloth tightly. 4... Sugar Allow f lb. to each pound of juice. 5- Put it in the preserving pan. 6... Boil up and skim. 7... Add the juice from the fruit. 8... Boil 15 or 20 minutes. 9... When done, strain through a jelly bag into the pots. 10... Let them stand till cold, then cover and tie down in the usual way. 14.-RHUBARB JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rhubarb Wash, wipe, peel, and cut it in small pieces. 2... Sugar The weight of the rhubarb. Put it all in the preserving pan. 3- Lemon peel... I lemon to Chop very fine and add. 2 lbs. of rhubarb , 4... ... ...\ Boil slowly at first, then more quickly. 5 j Boil for I hour, and stir frequently. 6 Pour into pots, and tie down as I usual. Note. the rat© .—Rhubarb jam can also be flavoured with almonds, sweet and bitter, mixed at of one part of bitter, to three parts of sweet almonds.413 PRESERVES. 15-STRAWBERRY JAM (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Strawberries 6 lbs. ... Pick and weigh. 2... Sugar 6 lbs. ... Boil alone until it candies on the finger. 3- Throw in the strawberries. 4... Let them boil up 3 times, and skim well. 5- Pour into the pots. 6... Let them stand till cold, then cover, and tie down in the usual way. I6.-STRAWBERRY JAM (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Strawberries Sugar Pick and weigh. Allow 1 lb. to each pound of fruit. Lay the fruit and sugar in alternate layers in a large earthen pan. Let them stand 24 hours. Boil in the preserving pan, and take off the scum as it rises. When done pour into the pots; let it cool, and then tie down as usual. 17. -TOMATOES, preserved. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Z"^ 4... Tomatoes ... Hot water ... Choose them large and very ripe. Weigh them, then peel them and put them in the pan. Pour over till they are covered. Boil 10 minutes, then put them on a sieve to drain.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 414 TOMATOES, preserved—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5... Take out the seeds, and put the pulp back in the pan. 6... Sugar Add half the weight of the tomatoes. 7,.. Lemon peel... To taste Add. 8... Boil for \ hour and skim well. 9... Take out the lemon peel. 10... Pour into pots and tie down. Note.—This makes a clear jelly of a rich red colour and pleasant taste. 18-VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Vegetable marrows Sugar Lemons Lemon peel Powdered ginger or 4 To taste Cut them in half, peel them, and take out the seeds. Cut them in small pieces, and let them drain. Take the same weigh': as the marrows. Put the marrow and sugar in a large earthen pan in alternate layers. Pour the strained juice over. Let it stand 2 days in a cool place. Put it in the preserving pan, and boil for f hour. Put it back in the earthenware pan and let it stand a week. Drain off the syrup, put it on the fire, and reduce it. Skim well. ) Grate the peel, mix with the ginger, j and add to the syrup. Pour the boiling syrup over the marrow, put it in pots, and tie down when cold. Note.—Cucumbers, pumpkins, and melons can be preserved in the same manner.415 PRESERVES. 19.-T0 PRESERVE NUTS AND WALNUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-- 4... 5'- Nuts Cold water ... Salt Put them in a large jar or earthen pan. ) Make the water slightly salt only, 1 and pour over them. Leave them for a week, but change the water 2 or 3 times. Take them out and keep them for use in a large jar. 20-TO BOIL SUGAR FOR SYRUPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- Sugar Water ^-pint to each pound of of sugar The best and finest white sugar. Break it, and put it in a copper-lined preserving pan. Pour over and stir with the skimnler while it boils, to prevent it from sticking to the pan and burning. 21.- TO CLARIFY SUGAR. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... White of egg Cold water ... Col J water ... A few drops 1 Beat lightly to a froth. Add drop by drop, beating all the time. Mix f of this with the sugar on a brisk fire. Take off all the scum as it rises. Pour on to the boiling sugar if it rises too much. Add the remainder of the frothed white of egg. Skim again until the sugar is per- fectly clear.4i6 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 22.- CRYSTALLIZED CHESTNUTS, mawom glaces. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Chestnuts Water Syrup Vanilla I stick Choose them large, and of good quality. Cut the skin with the point of a knife, but do not injure the fruit inside. Throw them into cold water. Boil fast on a quick fire, and when tender take them off the fire, but keep them hot. Have this ready and hot in the preserving pan. Peel the chestnuts, and throw them hot into the syrup. Take care not to break or injure them. Leave them till next day. Drain off the syrup, boil it up, anti pour it over the chestnuts. Do this 4 days following. On the last day reduce and clarify the syrup. Add to flavour the syrup, and take it out again. Dip the chestnuts in, and let the sugar crystallize on them. 23.~CRYSTALLIZED CURRANTS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Ripe currants Whites of eggs Water I wme glassful Choose fine bunches. Beat to a froth. Add and beat well. Dip in the bunches of currants, and lay them on a sheet of white paper.417 PRESERVES. CRYSTALLIZED Q\JRRk-^T:S—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5... 6... Sifted sugar . Sprinkle over, and roll the currants in the sugar till they are thickly- coated over. Let them dry on the paper, and the sugar will crystallize round each currant. 24-CRySTALLIZED ORANGES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Oranges Sugar Peel them, and take off as much of the white skin as possible, without breaking it. Divide them in quarters. Pass a needle and cotton through the thick white centre of each quarter, and tie it in a loop. Hang them all by the loops on wire hooks shaped like an S, and hang the hooks by the upper part on a string stretched from wall to wall. Boil on a quick fire until it bubbles and has slightly turned colour, but see that it does not go beyond this point. Take each hook by the top, and dip the orange in the boiling sugar. Take it out immediately, and hang it up on the string. Dip in each quarter separately, till all are done. Let them hang till dry. Serve at dessert. E E4i8 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 25.-CANDIED ORANGE FLOWERS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Orange Boiling Syrup flowers v/ater Fresh ones Take off the petals. Throw them in for a moment to blanch them. Have a thick clear syrup ready. Drain the petals from the water and throw them into the syrup. Boil until the sugar candies. Take the pan off the fire and stir till the sugar dries in a powder. Divide the petals from the sugar with the hand, and put them in the oven to dry on sheets of white paper. The oven must be cool, or the flowers will curl up. Keep in boxes in a dry place. Note.—Violets and rose petals can be candied in the same manner. 26.-ORANGE FLOWER SOUFFLES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Orange flowers Whites of eggs Sifted sugar ... 2... 2 t<'ible spoonsful Take off the petals and chop them. I Mix together to form a paste. Add the orange flowers. Make some very small paper souffle cases. Put in small portions of the paste with a silver knife. Put them on a tin and bake in a moderate oven. When they have risen and are a good colour, take them out. Let them get cold, and then pack in boxes to be used as wanted.PAESERVES, 419 27.-NOUGAT. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sweet almonds Pistachio nuts Su,^ar ^ lb. ... Throw into boiling water and peel. Wash and dry them thoroughly. Cut in slices lengthways and put them in the oven to keep hot. 3 oz. ... Peel, cut in pieces, and put in the oven. \ lb. ... Put in a copper pan on the fire with a little water. Boil till it is a thick, clear syrup. Put in the hotalmondsand pistachios, and stir constantly. Boil till the sugar is a good caramel or dark yellow colour. Oil and drain a tin mould. Put a layer of the hot almonds at the bottom, and press them down with a spoon dipped in oil of sweet almonds. Add another layer and work quickly, as the sugar hardens immediately. Keep the almonds hot all the time and fill the mould. Turn it out as soon as it has set ty tapping on the end of the mould. Note.—Nougat is sometimes spread in a thick layer on rice paper, and cut into square or oblong blocks before it is allowed to become cold. 28.—MORELLA CHERRIES, preserved in brandy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Early cherries Choose fine ones and prick them all over with a needle. 2... Cut the stalks short. 3- Throw them into a wide-mouthed t glass bottle. 4... Best brandy... Pour over till they are covered. E E 2420 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MORELLA CHERRIES, preserved in brandy—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cinnamon Cloves Coriander Powdered sugar Tie up in a little lb.to ij pint of brandy Add if liked. Cover the bottle closely so that the brandy cannot evaporate. Leave them for a month. Add and close again. When any cherries are taken out put in a little more brandy and sugar 29- -PLUMS, preserved in brandy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Greengages or other good plums TOO Choose them very fresh, sound, and fine. 2... Wipe them, and prick them all over with, a needle to the stone. 3- Cut off half the stalk, and throw the fruit into cold water. 4... 5-- Sugar Water 4lb^. ... if pint ... 1 Boil to a syrup. 6... Drain the water from the plums, and put them in an earthen pan. 7... 8... Pour the boihng syrup over. Put a plate and weight on the plums to keep them down, and cover with a cloth. 9... Leave them till next day. 10... Pour off the syrup, and boil it for 10 minutes. II... Keep the plums covered.421 PRESERVES. PLUMS, preserved in brandy—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... ... Pour the boiling syrup over the plums again, cover them, and leave them till next day. 13... ... ... Put the plums and syrup on a brisk fire. 14... ... The plums will first sink, when they rise take them out with a skimmer. 15... Put them on a sieve to drain. 16... Reduce the syrup. 17... Put the plums in wide - mouthed bottles. 18... Pour the syrup over them, warm, but not boiling. 19... Cork the bottles next day. 20... Leave them 3 or 4 days. 21... Brandy Fill up the bottles, and close them hermetically. Note.—Apricots, peaches, and pears, can be preserved in the same manner. Apricots should be of medium size, not too ripe, and smooth skinned; peaches and pears must be carefully peeled. 30.—FRUIT, preserved in bottles. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Plums, green- gages, or 1 Choose fruit that is not too ripe. apricots, &c. 2... Prick it all over with a needle. 3- Put it in a preserving pan. 4... Water Pour over till covered. 5- Put it on the fire for a moment, and stir carefully. 6... Take the pan off the fire. 7... Drain the Iruit on a sieve. 8... Cold water ... Pour over to give the fruit firmness. 9... Put it in wide-mouthed bottles, and half fill them.AjyAA'S COOKEkV BOOK. FRUIT, preserved in bottles—(continued)* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. lO... A 1 J Almoncls A tew 11 rJlancn, slice, and add. liked II... bugar Break and weigh. 12... Filtered water V* • 4. "' pint to I lb. of sugar Pour over, and let the sugar melt thoroughly. 13... ... ••. ... Pour Over the iruit, and till the UULllCb 4 lUil. 14... Close them, and make them air-tight, and tie down with wire. 15... Stand the bottles in a large saucepan. Pack them with straw. 17... Water Add to within 2J inches of the wires. 18... Put the saucepan on the fire, and leave it till next day. 19... Take out the bottles, and wipe them dry. 20... Cover the corks with resin. 21... Keep them in a moderately warm place. 31.-TO PRESERVE MUSHROOMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... Peel them, cut off part of the stalks. and if they are large cut them in pieces. 2... Boiling water Put them in for 2 or 3 minutes to blanch them. 3-. Drain them. 4... Thread them on fine twine, but do not let them touch. 5- Dry in the air, but not in the sun, or in a cool oven. 6... ••• >•. When dry tie them up in bags, or put them in boxes. 7... Soak them in cold water for half-an- hour before using them.PRESERVES. 32.—RASPBERRY JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Raspberries ... 8. lbs. ... Put into a preserving pan ; simmer gently till the juice flows freely. 2... Take out about ^ of the fruit and strain through a damp cloth into a basin, and pour the juice back into the preserving pan. Sugar 4 lbs. ... Add and stir continually to prevent sticking to the bottom of the pan. 4... Boil 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the scum as it rises. 5... Pour into pot, and when cold tie down in the usual way. NoTE.~For Black Currant Jam the above recipe can be used, but substituting T lb. for every § lb. of sugar. 33.-T0 BOTTLE FRUIT. Procure some strong wide-mouthed bottles ; clean and dry them thoroughly. Nearly fill with fruit, which must be dry and not over ripe; fill to the brim with cold water; stretch a bladder over each bottle and tie down tightly. Stand the bottles in a fish-kettle; put a little hay or dtraw between each to prevent them knocking together and breaking; pour cold water into the kettle until on a level with the necks of the bottles. Bring the water to the boil. When the fruit assumes an opaque appearance it is sufficiently cooked ; about 20 to 30 minutes after the water boils. Take the kettle off the fire, and leave the bottles in it until cold. Wipe the bottles, and place in a dry place to keep. 34.—DAMSON CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Ripe damsons 6 lbs. ... Pick off the stalks and remove the stones. 2... Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, crack some of the stones, and add the kernels to the fruit. 3-- 4... Stew gently till quite soft. Pass the juice and pulp through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and return to the preserving-pan. 5... Sugar 4 lbs. ... Add a little at a time; stir well. 6... Simmer gently I hour; boil quickly 15 minutes. 7... Pour into pots, and when cold tie down in the usual manner.424 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, SECTION XX.—SAVOURY DISHES. ————— ••^9m=%»» l.-ANOHOVY TOAST. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Anchovies ... Bone, wash and scrape them well. 2... Chop, pound and press them through a sieve. 3- Butter Mix an equal quantity with the anchovies. 4... Cayenne To taste Add. 5..- Slices of bread Fry in butter. 6... Spread the paste on the toast, heat before the fire, and serve very hot. 2.-BREAD PATTIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ...I French rolls... 3 Grate off the crust, cut the rolls in two, and hollow them in the centre. 2... Milk 1 pint ... Pour over them, and let them soak till quite moist, but do not let them break. 3.- Let them drain. 4... Yolk of egg ... I Beat and brush over the patties. 5-- Roll them in the grated crust. 6... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying pan. 7... Fry the patties a nice brown. 8... Let them drain, but keep them hot. 9... Stewed mush- rooms or oysters Fill the patties and serve them very hot. 10... Any remains of poultry or game can be minced, heated in gravy, and served in bread patties.425 SAVOURY DISHES, 3—CHEESE PATTIES, German receipt. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Eggs Salt Hot milk Butter Parmesan cheese Pepper and salt Cream lib. .. 2 A pinch.. \ pint .. 30Z. 3 oz. .. To taste 2 table- spoonsful Mix to a paste and line the buttered patty pans, and partially bake. Melt in a stewpan. Grate and add. Add. Add and mix all well together. Fill the patties with the mixture. Bake for a few minutes and serve very hot. 4.-TOASTED CHEESE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cheese Butter Pepper and salt Mustard Buttered toast 6 or 8 oz. I oz. To taste A little .. Choose Cheddar or Gloucester. Cut in pieces and put it in a small saucepan. Add. Add. Add ; stir all well over the fire. When melted and free from lumps it is done. Have some hot slices ready on a dish. Put a layer of cheese on each slice, and serve at once very hot. Note.—Another way is to lay slices of cheese on buttered toast and then let them toast together ; a little mustard and pepper are spread on the cheese. 5.-CHEESE STRAWS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Flour Butter Grated Par- mesan i lb. ... \ lb. ... \ lb. ... > Mix together, )426 MYRA'S cookery BOOK. CHEESE STRAWS—{coniinued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt To taste Add. 5- Cayenne and A pinch Add. pepper 6... Egg I Beat and add. 7... Mix all to a paste, and roll out 1 ^ inch thick. 8... Cut the paste in thin strips 3 or 4 inches long. g... ... Bake in the oven and serve very hot. ^ ■ 6.-RAMEQUINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Parmesan 6 oz. Cut in thin slices and put in a stew- cheese pan. 2... Butter 2 oz. Add. 3-- Shake the pan until they are melted and mixed. Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth and add. 5- Beat all v^ell together. 6... Fill small paper cases with the mix- ture. 7... Bake in a moderate oven and serve hot. 7-EGGS WITH CHEESE, Fondu. Order. I Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Put in a baking dish. 2... Cheddar 401*5 Add and let them melt. cheese sHces 3- Eggs 3 or 4 ... Break into the dish.427 SAVOURY DISHES, EGGS WITH CUEESE-(conHnued), Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Let the whites set in the oven (1 before the fire. 5- Grated cheese 3 OZ. Sprinkle over. 6... Pepper To laste Add. 7... Brown before the fire and serve ve;} hot in the dish. 8.-FORCEMEAT PIE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Paste Flour Quenelles Mushrooms ... Artichokes ... White sauce Yolks of eggs Good gravy ... 20 20 3 or 4 2 pint A few spoonsful Make as for a raised pie. Fill the inside to the top. A filling of shreds of white paper may be used instead. Put on the cover and bake. Poach in water. Fry in butter. Take the lower part of the leaves only, boil them in water and stew in flour and butter. Put the above ingredients in and boil gently a few minutes. Beat and add. Add and mix well. Take the cover oft the pie, remove the flour or paper. Put in the forcemeat. Place the cover on the top and serve very hot.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 2 oz. 12.. Flour 9.-FORGEMEAT TURNOVERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Puff paste ... Cut in rounds about 5 inches across. 2... Cold fowl ... i lb. ... Take out the bones and chop the meat. 3- Gravy Add a little. 4... Mushrooms ... 3 or 4 ... Add. 5-- Sausage meat i lb. ... Add. 6... Mix well to make a forcemeat. 7... Any remains of cold game or rabbit, &c., can be used. 8... Put some of the forcemeat on one- half of each round. g... ... Fold the paste over and close the edges. 10... ... Bake, or fry in butter and serve hot. 10.- -GNOCCHI, Italian receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I oz. 2... Water 2 wine 1 Boil together. glasses 3- Salt, pepper... A pinch Add. of each 4... Flour 5 oz. Add gradually, stirring all the time. 5... Parmesan 3 oz. ... Grate and add. cheese 6... Stir for a minute over the fire, then take it off. 7- Eggs 3 Beat and add, stirring well. 8.. Divide the mixture into small balls. 9.. Boiling milk.. 1 pint ... Poach the balls in milk. 10.. Put them on a sieve to drain. II.. Butter I oz. Put in a stewpan. Add and stir in.SAVOURY DISHES. 429 GNOCCHI, Italian receipt—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... Milt iVlllK ••• ih pint Ann c4"ii* otin citYitYi<ai« frw 1 xxuu, oLn well ctiiu. biiiiiiicr lor ^ hour, or till it thickens. Put a layer of gnocchi in A small baking dish. 15... Parmesan ... Grate fine Sprinkle a layer over. 16... Pour over a layer of the boiled milk and flour. 17... ••• ..• Continue the layers until the dish is full. 18... Strew grated cheese over the top. 19... •t« ••• Brown in the oven and serve hot. 11.—MACCARONI, Italian way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... ilb. ... Boil in plenty of water. 2... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. 3 — Let it boil gently for 20 minutes. 4... Drain off all the water. Put the maccaroni in a stewpan. 0... Stock or milk ^ pint ... Add, and let it simmer till all the stock is absorbed. 7... Gruyere cheese 3 oz. Grate. 8... Parmesan ... 3 oz. ... Grate and mix with the other. 9... Add half the cheese to the maccaroni and stir well. 10... When it is well mixed add t e remainder of the cheese. II... Butter I oz. Add, stir well, and serve very hot. 12,,, If the cheese oils, add a little stock and stir over the fire. 12- -MACCARONI, an gratin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... h lb. ... Boil as in previous recipe. 2... Butter Butter a baking dish. 3- Put in the maccaron430 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MACCARONI, au gratin—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Parmesan ... 6 oz. Grate and sprinkle over. 5-- Bread crumbs I table- Sprinkle over the top. spoonful 6... Butter I oz. Melt and pour over. 7... Brown before the fire and serve very hot. 13-MACCARONI CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... ^Ib. ... Boil in milk till tender. 2... Put it in a baking dish. 3-- Grated cheese 6 oz. Sprinkle over. 4... Egg I Beat and pour over. 5- Butter ijoz. ... Put in small pieces over the top. 6... Bake in the oven or brown before the fire. 14—MACCARONI, "^ith tomato sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... 1 lb. ... Boil in water. 2... Butter k OZ. Add. 3 — Salt A pinch... Add. 4 - Onion I stuck Add ; boil till tender. w^ith cloves 5-. Drain all the water off. 6..« Put the maccaroni in a stewpan. 7... Butter I oz. Add. 8... Gruyere 3 oz. ... Grate and add. 9... Parmesan 3 oz. ... Grate and add.^SAVOURY DISHES. 431 MACCARONI, with tomato sauce—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 10... Whole pepper A little ... Add. II... Cream 2 table- Add and stir all together. spoonsful 12... When the cheese forms threads put the maccaroni on a hot dish, and take away the onion. 13... Pour thick tomato sauce over and serve. 15.—MACCARONI, en timbale. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method, I... Butter Rub over the inside of a mould. 2... Puff paste ... Line the mould. 3- Maccaroni ... Fill with maccaroni dressed in the Italian way. 4... Cover with paste. Buttered paper Put over the top. 6... Bake in a hot oven for i hour. 7... Turn it out on to a dish and serve very hot. 16.- -NOUILLES, au jambon. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Put on the pastry board, and make a hole in the centre. 2... Eggs 3 Break, beat and add. 3- Butter i oz. Add. 4... Knead all together to a smooth paste. Cut the paste in 8 pieces. 6... Flatten them with the roller till they are no thicker than a shilling. 7... Flour Dredge over them. 8... Hang the pieces of paste over the back of a chair on a clean cloth to dry a little. 1MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 432 Serve hot. NOUILLES, au jamhon—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. ^fjethod. Q... Roll them up and cut them in ver ■ small pieces. 10... Unroll them, separate them, and 'ev. them dry i hour. 3 1... S3.It Rtid Welter Boil in a saucepan. 12... Throw in the nouilles, and stir with the other hand that they may not stick together. 13... ••• Let them boil fast ^ hour. 14... Take them out and let them drain. 15... Butter or lard 2 OZ. Heat in a stewpan. 16... Lean ham ... 3 or 4 OZ. Cut in small squares, and brown in the butter. 17... Stock I wine glass Add as required. 18... Salt, pepper... Add. ig... Add the hot nouilles, and brown them with the bacon. 20... ••• ••• Serve hot piled on a dish. 17-PILAU. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice I pint ... Wash carefully in warm water, and put it in a stewpan. 2... Stock 3 pints ... Add and put the stewpan on a quick fire, and cover closely. 3- Powdered J tea Dissolve in a little stock, and put saffron spoonful into the pan, when the rice begins to boil. 4... Boil quickly, and keep the stewpan closely covered. 5... The rice will swell, harden, and then become a firm mass. 6... Let it boil for about i hour. 7...433 SAVOURY DISHES, 18.~RICE, Turkish way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 3 iarge Cut in pirces, and brown in 2 oz. of ones butter. 2... Carrot I Cut in slices, and brown also. Boiling water I wine Add to moisten. glass 4... Parsley A small Add. bunch 5- Salt, pepper j 6... Nutmeg 1 A little of Add. 7... Cloves ( each 8... Saffron ) 9... Let it simmer gently i hour, then strain. 10... Rice ^ lb. Wash well. II... Stock I pint ... Add to the rice, and put them on the fire to swell. 12... ... Add more stock if required, until the rice is half boiled, and the stock absorbed. 13... Add the strained sauce. 14... Butter I oz. Add. 15... Pepper A little ... Add. 16... Pimento A little ... Pound very fine and add. 17... Butter Rub the inside of a stewpan. 18... Put in the rice. 19... Let it thicken on a slow fire, and serve hot. 19, —RIOSSO, Italian receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 6 oz. Wash, and boil for five minutes. 2... Throw it into cold water and then let it drain. 3 Lean ham ... 3 to 4 oz. Cut in small pieces. 4... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 5... Put in the ham and let it brown all over. 6... Stcck I pint ... Add. F F434 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, RIOSSO, Italian receipt—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. 7- Pepper A good Add. pinch 8... Put in the rice and let all stew for 20 minutes. g... Stir frequently to prevent it from sticking. lO... Serve very hot piled on a dish. II... Sausages lib, Z Fry and serve vi^ith it if liked. 20.-SAVOURY PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Puff paste ... Make a good puff paste, roll it out very thin, and line a buttered mould with it. 2... Ham I large slice Put in a stewpan and leave it on the fire till nearly cooked. 3-- Cut it up in very small pieces. 4... Cold roast fowl Cut up any portions of the white meat and add. 5... Pickled gher- 2 or 3 ... Cut small and add. kins 6... Anchovies ... 2 Wash, cut in fillets and add. 7... Truffles 2or3 ... Add. 8... Boiled carrot I Cut in slices and add. 9... Mushrooms ... A few ... Add. 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. II... Put in all the prepared ingredients. 12... Flour Dredge over. 13.,. Good stock ... i pint ... Add and let all simmer for ^ hour. 14... Pepper A pinch... Add. 15... Lemon juice... I lemon... Strain and add. 16... Put all into the pie. 17... Put on a cover of puff paste. 18... Paper Cover the top with buttered paper. 19... Bake in a moderate oven f hour. 20... Turn it out of the mould and serve hot.SAVOURY DISHES. 435 21-SAVOURY SOUFFLES. Order Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Yolk of egg Warm milk Flour Salt ... Sour cream Whites of egg Butter Crayfish, quenelles, or calf's brains Yolk of egg ... ilb. I table spoonful I table spoonful To taste 3 table spoonsful 6 Beat to a cream. Break into the butter and stir till it is well mixed in. Add. Add and stir in well. Repeat Nos. 2, 3 and 4 until you have mixed in 6 yolks of eggs, 6 spoonsful of milk, and 6 spoonsful of flour. Add. Use if liked instead of 3 spoonsful of warm milk. Beat to a froth, and add gradually to the rest. Butter some souffle moulds. Put in a spoonful of the mixture. Boil separately, and put a cray- fish, a quenelle, or a small portion of brain in each mould. Cover with another spoonful of the paste. Beat, and brush over the top. Bake in the oven and serve hot. 22.-TALMOUSES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i lb. ... Melt on the fire, then take it off. 2... Sifted flour ... 2 OZ. Add and work in. 3- Soft cheese ... i lb. ... Any good fresh cheese may be used; beat in with the butter. F F 2436 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. TALMOVSES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Fromage de Brie Salt Eggs i lb. ... To taste 4 Add and mix well. Add and work all to a smooth paste. Beat and add to the mixture. Roll out the paste, and cut in fingers. Bake in a hot oven. 23.- FRIED ARTICHOKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Artichokes ... 6 Boil till nearly tender. 2... Pull out the leaves, and cut off the stalks, leaving the centres only. 3- Eggs 2 Beat well. ,4... Dip the artichokes in the egg. 5- Pepper, salt... To taste Sprinkle over them. 6... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying pan. 7... Fry the artichokes a nice brown. 8... Melted butter Serve separately. 24.-SCOTCH OYSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of veal ... I lb. ... Chop and pound in a mortar. 2... Beef suet i lb. ... Shred and add to it. 3- Pound both together to a paste. 4... Bread crumbs 3 oz. Add. 5... E?gs 2 Beat and add. f)... Mace A little 7... Nutmeg of each 1 Add to season, mix well. 8... Pepper, salt ...SAVOURY DISHES. 437 SCOTCH OYSTERS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... Make into little flat cakes. 10... Fry them in butter or bake them. II... Good gravy ... 1 pint ... Put in a small saucepan. 12... Mushrooms ... 2 or 3 ... 1 Add either, and thicken with a 13... Oysters ) little flour and butter. 14... Pour over the cakes, and serve very hot. 25.-STEWED OYSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Oysters 2 doz. ... 2... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... ' 3... Liquor i pint ... 4.., Mace A little ... 5- Pepper To taste 6... Butter 2 oz. 7... Vinegar I table spoonful 8... Fried sippets Method. Put them in a stewpan. Add. Add the strained liquor from the oysters. Add and boil all together for a short time, but see that the oysters do not harden. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. 26.-BRAIN CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... Brains Skin and boil them, and chop them 2... Bread crumbs 40Z. ... small. 3- Pepper, salt... Mix with the brains. 4... Sweet herbs... ) Chop the herbs; add to the brains 5... Yolks of eggs 3 ) and mix. 6... Beat and mix with the rest. Make the mixture into small cakes. 7... 8... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying pan. Fry the cakes a nice brown and serve very hot. Note.—The last four receipts are taken from a Cookery Book of the last Century.M\RA'S COOKERY BOOK. 438 27.—BEEF CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold remains of beef ilb. ... Mince fine. 2... Ham or bacon 2 OZ. Mince and add. Parsley I table- spoonful Chop fine and add. 4... Lemon juice ... Jofalemon Add. 5- Pepper and salt A little ... Add. 6... Savoury relish I dessert- spoonful Jpint ... I Mix together and add. 7... Stock... J 8... Butter A little ... Grease some small deep tins. 9... Bread crumbs 3 OZ. Line the tins. lO... Fill carefully with the beef mixture. II... Cover the top with bread crumbs; bake \ hour. 12... Brown sauce... f pint ... Turn the cakes out. Arrange nicely {see No. 56, on a dish, pour the sauce round. Sect. XII.) Note.—The cakes can be served cold, without sauce, and garnished with parsley. 28. -BEEF OLIVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Parsley I table- spoonful Chop fine. 2... Bread-crumbs I table- spoonful Add. 3..- Rind of lemon 1 4. Grate and add. 4... Butter Size of a walnut Yolk of egg or stock I I gill ... : Mix with the other ingredients. 6... Pepper, salt, and cayenne To taste... 7... Beef, cooked 6 thin Spread with the mixture, roll each or uncooked slices up, skewer them. 8... Clarified drip- 2 OZ. Melt in a baking dish. ping 9... Place t'le olives in the dish. 10... Bread crumbs 2 OZ. Sprinkle over. II... Stock \ pint ... Pour over ; Bake 10 minutes. 12... Talce out the skewers and place the olives on a hot dish. 13... Pour the gravy over and serve.439 SAy007^y DISHES. Serve hot. sprigs i 29.—BACON OLIVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1 I... Cold remains 2 OZ. Mince very fine. of meat 2... Mixed herbs... I small tea- Add. spoonful 3'" Lemon juice... A little ... Add. 4... Stock or water I gill ... Add and mix all well together. 5-- Rashers of 6 Spread with the mixture, roll up, bacon skewer, and fry. 6... Place the olives on a hot dish. 7... Parsley A few Fry in the bacon fat, garnish the sprigs dish, and serve. 30 — LOBSTER OUTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lobster j- a good Take out the" meat and pound in a sized one mortar with the coral. 2... ... Smash the shell and put into a sauce- pan. 3..- Water Cover the shell with water and boil f to f an hour, strain, and add to the meat. 4... Butter Size of a Add to the meat. walnut 5-.. Pepper, salt, A little ... Add and beat the whole into a cayenne. smooth paste. grated nutmeg 6... ... Divide into 4 or 5 equal parts, flatten each out into the shape of a cutlet. Stick a small piece of claw into the end of each. 7... 8... Egg ... I Beat, and dip the cutlets in. Bread-crumbs 3 OZ. Cover the cutlets with bread-crumbs. 9... Clarified drip- ilb. ... Melt in a fryingpan, and when the ping fat boils, place the cutlets in it and fry a delicate brown. 10... Melted butter, Ipint ... Pour into the centre of a small dish coloured with and arrange the cutlets round. anchovy II... Parsley A few Fry, and use to garnish the dish,440 AIVAWS COOKERY BOOK. brown sauce Serve hot. 31.—OYSTER LOAVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Oysters 6 Beard and cut into small dice. 2... Butter Joz. Melt in a saucepan. 3-.. Flour I dessert- spoonful Add gradually. 4... Milk I gill ... Stir in gradually. 5.-- Liquor from the oysters A little ... Add. 6... Pepper, salt, A little ... Add. lemon juice 7... Let the sauce thicken. 8... Put in the oysters, keep on the fire a few minutes to heat them through, but do not allow the contents of the saucepan to boil, which woulJ harden the oysters. 9... Small loaves {see No. 58, Sect. XVII.) I doz. ... Cut off the tops, scoop out some of the inside, fill with the panada, replace the tops, arrange pyramidically on a dish. Serve cold. 10... Parsley A few sprigs Garnish the dish. 32.—TIMBALES OF MACARONI. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Macaroni Alb. ... Boil till tender, I to hours. 2... Cold remains iib. ... Mince very fine. of chicken, duck, beef, or any other meat 3- Ham I oz. Mince and add. 4... Stock I gill ... Add. 5... Pepper, salt ... To taste... Add. 6... Clarified drip- A Httle ... Grease some small tins. ping or butter 7... 8... Line the tins with macaroni. Fill with the mixture of chicken, Re- 9... cover the tops with paper. 10... Steam \ hour. Turn out. 11... White or J pint ... Boil up, and pour over the timbales.PICKLES. 441 SECTION XXL—PICKLES. l.-PICKLE FOR BOILED BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brown sugar ilb. ... Coarse sugar is best. 2... Saltpetre I oz. Powder fine, and mix with the sugar. 3- Rub the beef well with these at intervals, for two days. 4... Salt fib. ... Dry well, beat, and add to the pickle. 5-- Rub well into all parts of the meat for three weeks. 6... Before boiling the beef wash off the salt. 7... This is sufficient for 20 lbs. of beef, either the round, the brisket, or the aitch bone. 2-PICKLE FOR BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold water ... 2 gallons Put in a large saucepan. 2... Brown sugar 2 lbs. Add. 3- Bay salt 2 lbs. Add. 4... Common salt 2 lbs. Add. Saltpetre iib. ... Add. 6... Sal prunella... i lb. ... Add. 7... 8... Boil gently, and skim as the scum rises. When cold put in the beef, and rub well every day for 10 or 15 days.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 44^ 3.-PICKLE FOR BEEP, HAM, AND TONGUES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water 3 gallons Put in a saucepan. Common salt 0 JUS. ... A rlrl 3- Bay salt 2 lbs. ... Add. 4... Loaf sugar ... 2 lbs. ... Add. 5- Saltpetre 2 oz. Add. 6... Boil over a slow fire, and skim carefully. 7... 8... Salt !!! Let it get cold before using. Rub over the meat, and let it drain for 24 hours. 9... Put it in the brine, and cover well. 10... Leave the meat in pickle one or two weeks, according to taste. 4.-HAMBURGH PICKLE FOR BEEF, &c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water 2 gallons Put in a saucepan. 2... Bay salt 3 lbs. .,. Add. 3- Coarse sugar 2 lbs, ... Add, 4... Salt petre 2 oz. Add. Black pepper 2 oz. Bruise, tie in muslin, and add. 6... Boil all together for 20 minutes. 7... 8... Take off the scum as it rises. Pour into a deep earthen pan and let it stand till cold. 9... Put in the meat, and see that it is entirely covered by the pickle. Leave it in a fortnight, turning it in the brine occasionally. 10... Good for beef, ham, and tongues.PICKLES. 443 5.-SWEET PICKLE FOR BACON AND HAMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... Ham Saltpetre Common salt Bay salt Sal prunella... Coarse sugar Allspice Cayenne Black pepper Eschalots Nutmeg Cloves Treacle Strong beer ... Pepper Flour 16 lbs. ... 2 OZ. i lb. ... i lb. ... I OZ. 1 lb. ... 2 OZ. ground 1 tea- spoon 2 OZ. 2 chopped I grated i OZ. pounded f lb. ... i pint ... Put in a large pan. Mix, all well together to form a pickle, and rub the mixture into the ham every day for half an hour. Turn the ham in the pickle every day and baste it. Pour a thin layer over the ham on the fourth day. Warm and pour over one day after the treacle. Leave the ham in pickle 6 or 8 weeks, rubbing it well every day. Drain and dry it thoroughly. Sprinkle all over the ham. Put it in a canvas bag. Hang in the kitchen until wanted. 6-PICKLSD BEETROOT, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5-- 6... Beetroots Vinegar Pepper, salt... 5 or 6 ... I pint ... To taste Choose them a medium size, and of good colour. Boil and peel them. Cut them in thin slices. Mix and put the beetroot in. This will keep good for several weeks, and can be used with salad, or eaten with cold meat.MYJ^AS COOKERY BOOK, 444 7.-PICKLED CABBAGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Ked ca,Dbage I or 2 ... Pick on the outer leaves, a,na shred the inner part very fine, and put it in a pan. Odll. Sprinkle thickly over it. 3- Let it stand 2 days, and stir twice a day. 4... Let the salt and moisture drain off, and put the cabbage in an earthen 5- Boiled vinegar jar. Pour over till covered. 6... Peppe corns 7... Cloves I Add to flavour, or boil the pepper in 8... Small red 1 the vinegar. peppers 9... Cover closely, and keep 2 months. 8.-PICKLED ESCHALOTS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eschalots Vinegar Salt Pepper I quart ... I quart ... I dessert spoon I oz. Clean and peel them. The best pale white wine vinegar must be used; put it in a saucepan. Add. Add whole white pepper. Boil the vinegar quickly, then skim. Throw in the eschalots. Let them simmer two minutes. Pour them into a stone jar. When quite cold, tie down with thick paper.445 PICKLES, 9.-PICKLED GHERKHINS. Ingredients. Gherkins Salt Vinegar Vinegar Pepper Tarragon Fennel Cloves Capsicums Quantities. Method. Pick them in September, and see that they are very fresh, and of equal size. Cut off the stalks, and put them in an earthen pan. Cover them v^ell. Let them stand 24 hours, but turn them 3 or 4 times. Put them to drain, and wipe them perfectly dry. Put them in pickle jars. Pour in till they are covered. At the end of a week, pour off the vinegar. Let the gherkins drain. Pour fresh vinegar on them. I Put a little of each into all the jars j to give flavour. Stopper the jars closely, and keep them in a cool place. At the end of two months they will be ready for use. lO.-PICKLED LEMONS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lemons Salt Wipe them dry and cut ir quarters lengthways, but without quite dividing them. Stuff them with salt. Put them in a deep dish and place them in the sun, or in a warm place. Turn and baste them frequently and leave them g or 10 days.446 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. PICKLED IJ^yiO-^^—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Put them in a stone jar. 6... Pour the juice over them. 7... Small onions 12 ) Prick the onions with the cloves 8... Cloves 24 j and add them to the lemons. 9... Vinegar 2 quarts Choose white-w^ine vinegar. 10... Ginger ^Ib. ... Bruise and add to the vinegar. II... Pepper 2 oz. Whole black pepper; add. 12... Mustard seed }, lb. ... Add. 13... Boil the vinegar and pour boiling on to the lemons. 14... Cover the jar and let it stand till next day. 15... Capsicums or 6 ) Add whichever is most convenient 16... Chilies A few ... j or preferred. 17... Tie down and keep six months at least before using. ll.-PICKLED MUSHROOMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... I quart ... Choose the smallest button mush- rooms freshly gathered. 2... Cut off the stems quite close. 3- Salt Moisten a piece of flannel, dip it in salt, and clean the mushrooms with it. 4... Cold water ... ) Mix, and throw the mushrooms in ( as they are cleaned. 5- Salt 6... Take them out quickly, and dry on a soft cloth. 7... Vinegar I quart ... Distilled or white wine vinegar may be used; put in a saucepan. 8... Salt I tea- spoon 1 9... Pepper I oz. whole white [ Add. 10... Ginger I oz. Bruise and add. II... Cayenne A little ... Tie in muslin and add,PICKLES, 447 PICKLED MUSHROOMS—(^owj^mw^t/). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... 13... 13... I ... 17... 19... Mace Nutmeg 2 blades Half only Add if liked. Add if liked. Let the vinegar boil up, then skim. Throw in the mushrooms. Let them boil from 8 to 10 minutes, until tender. Put them in glass bottles. Divide the spice amongst them When cold, tie them down, and keep in a dry place. 12-PICKLED NASTURTIUMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5--- 6... Nasturtium seeds Buds Vinegar Salt Pepper I quart ... ii oz. ... Gather them young, day by day, as they are ready. Add a few very young ones. 1 Mix, and keep ready in ajar. Throw in the nasturtium seeds and buds each day as gathered. When the jar is sufficiently full add a little whole pepper and tie down for use. 13.-PICKLED ONIONS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions I quart ... Choose them very small, and peel. 2... Vinegar I quart ... White-wine vinegar is best; put it in a saucepan. 3- Salt I dessert Add. spoon 4... White pepper I oz. Add whole. 5- Boil quickly, then skim. 6... Throw in the onions and let them simmer 3 or 4 minutes.448 MYRAS COOKERY BOOK. PICKLED OmOV^'^—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- When clear put them in a jar. 8... Pour the vinegar over them. g... Spice •*. If liked Can be added to the vinegar when boiling. 10... Tie dov^n w^hen quite cold. Note.—Spanish onions can be shred fine and pickled in the same way. 14-PICKLED WALNUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Walnuts 50 Choose them while still so soft that a pin can be run through them. 2... Water 2 quarts... ) Mix to form a brine, and take off 3-- Salt 12 oz. ... ) the scum that rises. 4... Throw in the walnuts. D •*• Stir them twice a day. 6... Change the brine every third day. 7... 8... Leave the walnuts in brine for 10 or 12 days. Spread them on dishes. 9... Put them cut in the air for some hours, till they are black. 10... Vinegar I quart ... Put in a saucepan. II... Salt \ tea- spoon Add. 12... Black pepper I oz. Add whole. 13... Ginger i^ oz. ... Braise and add. 14... Mace A little ... Add if liked. 15... Mustard seed 2 oz. Add. 16... Onions 2 or 3 ... Stick with cloves and add. 17... Boil for about 5 minutes. 18... Put the walnuts in jars. 19... Remove the onions and pour the boiling vinegar on the walnuts. 20... When cold tie down. 21... Keep the walnuts well covered with vinegar, and add boiled vinegar to them as required.PICKLES, 449 15.-MIXED PICKLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mustard \ lb. ... Put in ajar or basin. 2... Salt \ lb. ... Add. 3- Mustard seed 2 oz. Add. 4... Turmeric 3 oz. ... Add. 5-- Black pepper I oz. Add. 6... Cayenne \ oz. Add. 7- Vinegar Add, stirring all the time till the mixture is the consistence of thin cream. 8... Cauliflower ... Break in small pieces and put in an earthen jar. g... Celery Add in small pieces. 10... French beans Young ones. II... Small onions Add a few. 12... Gherkins ::: ::: A few small ones. 13... Nasturtium Young ones only. seeds 14... Red peppers... A few. ic;... A J . . . Pour the prepared vinegar over them and stir well. 16... Cover the jar closely and keep it in a warm place. 17... Stir every day for a month. 18... Divide off into glass pickle jars, and keep some months before using. 16.-ACHARD PICKLES, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. — I... Vinegar 5A pints... Put in a large pan. 2... Peppercorns 3 oz. ... Add. 3-- Mustard seed 2 oz. Add. 4... Turmeric ilb. ... Add. Powdered i lb. ... Add. ginger 6... Coriander I oz. Add. seed 7... Capsicums ... \ oz. Add. G GMYRAS COOKERY BOOK. 450 AC HARD PICKLES, Trench receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 0... .«• ... Let all steep together 8 days- g... .«• ... ... Strain through a cloth, and then UIIV6 Oil ... through paper. 10... if pint ... A AA /vaa. II... Cauliflower ... Break in small pieces. 12... Brussels sprouts ... ... Choose them small, and remove the outer leaves. 13- Celery- Cut in short lengths. 14... Carrots ... Small ones cut in pieces. 15... French beans Small ones. ID... Asparagus •.. ... ... The tips only. 17... Artichokes ... ... The centre only. 18... Maize A few young ears. 19... Red cabbage A little, shred very fine. 20... Green oranges A few small ones. 21... Green apricots ... A few, thinnings from the trees. 22... Nasturtium ... Young seeds only. 23... Capers ... Fresh or pickled. 24... Gherkins ... If large cut in pieces. 25... vegetaDie marrow Very small young ones* 26... Capsicums Red and green. and hot peppers 27... Put all these in a large earthen jar, and pour the prepared vinegar over them. 28... Stir them with a wooden spoon. 29... Close the jar tightly. 30... Let it stand out in the sun for a few days. 31... They should be kept for some months before using. Note.—We do not ^ive the quantities of vegetables required, as any of those named can.be omitted, except the capsicums and hot peppers, and more or less of each kind used as required or liked. The jar should be quite three-quarters full before the vinegar is poured over the vegetables.PICKLES. 451 17.-INDIAN PICKLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 25., Cabbage Cauliflower . Salt French beans Gherkins Small onions Capsicums . Nasturtium seeds Cloves of garlic Eschalots Horseradish Powdered ginger Peppercorns Long peppers Cloves Cayenne pepper Mustard seed Mustard Turmeric Mace Vinegar 2 sticks Jib. 2 oz. 1 oz. 12 \ OZ. 2 OZ. ilb. 1 OZ. \ oz. 2 quarts Choose a white one, take off the outer leaves and cut the rest in very thin slices. Break in small pieces. Sprinkle thickly over them and let them stand 2 days, stirring them well. Let them drain and put them in a large jar. ^1 Add some of all of these, with any \ other vegetables liked or in I season. J Add to the vegetables. Boil, and pour boiling on to the vegetables, &c. When cold cover the jar or jars. Let it stand for some days, then divide off into pickle bottles. Cover closely and keep several months.. G G 2MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 452 18-CHUTNEY. Order. Ingredients. Qucintities. Method. I... Tamarinds ... I lb. ... Use the pulp only. 2... Sultanas I lb. ... Chop and add. 3- Lemons 12 Grate the rind of all, and take the strained juice of 6. 4... Tomatoes ... I lb. ... Remove the skin and seeds, and add the pulp only. 5 — Sour apples ... I lb. ... Peel, core, mince, and add. 6... Eschalots ... 4 oz. Peel, chop, and add. 7... Onions 6 Chop small and add. 8... rvcu wiiixics ... Add. 9... Powdered I lb! !!! Add.' ginger IO„.. Moist sugar... I lb. ... Add. II... Vinegar 4 quarts... Add and mix well together. 12... Keep in a warm place for 3 or 4 weeks. 13... Stir the chutney now and then. 14... Put in small jars or bottles for use. 19.~-SWEET MELON PICKLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. Melons 2 or 3 ... Gather them 2 or 3 days before they are quite ripe. 2 .. Pare off the rind, remove the seeds, and cut them in slices half an inch thick. 3- Vinegar Put the slices in and let them remain for 10 days. 4... Take them out and put them in a saucepan. 5... Vinegar Pour over cold vinegar until they are covered. 6... Simmer gently until tender. 7... Put them on a reversed sieve to drain.453 PICKLES. SWEET MELON PIGKLE—((;o«^/wM^if). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Cloves When the melon is cold stick 2 cloves 9... 10... II. Sugar Water 10 oz, ... I pint ... into each slice. ) Boil quickly for 20 minutes to make j a syrup, and let it get cold. Put the slices of melon in a glass jar. Pour the cold syrup over and let all stand for a week. Take out the slices and let them drain a little. Put them in jars for use. Boil up and let it get quite cold. Pour over the melon, and cover the jars well. Keep for 4 or 5 weeks before using. 12... 13-.. 14... 15... 16... Vinegar I pint ... 17... Note.—This pickle is served with roast mutton, hare, and venison, and also with stewed meat. A little cinnamon may be added to flavour the pickle, if liked, but it should be used in very small quantities. REMARKS ON PICKLING. The vinegar used for pickling should be of the best kind and greatest strength, and boiled in stone jars in preference to saucepans. All vegetables and other ingredients should be thoroughly dry before they are put into the vinegar, and if this becomes thick, as is sometimes the case, it should be poured off the pickles, boiled up again and then once more poured over them. It is most important that all pickle jars should be air tight, and that when pickles are removed from the large jars to smalle" ones for use, a perfectly dry wooden spoon should be used for the purpose. The pickles left in the large jar must be covered with vinegar, or they will spoil.454 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION XXII.—BEVERAGES. 1.—LEMONADE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. ivieinoa. I... Lemons 2 Put juice and peel into a basin. 2... Loaf sugar ... 2 lbs. ... Add. 3-.. Tartaric acid... I oz. Add. 4... Boiling water pints... Pour over, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved. S'" Allow it to stand all night. 6... Strain through a piece of muslin into a large basin. 7... Cold water or 4| pints... Add. (Ice according to taste.) soda water 2.—ORANGEADE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Oranges 6 Peel them. 2... Thin syrup ... ij pints... Pour over the peel, and let it stand 2 hours. S- Squeeze and strain the juice of the oranges into a large jug. 4... Lemons 3 Add the juice to that of the oranges. 5-. Strain the syrup, and add it to the strained juice. 6... Water 2 quarts Add and mix well. (Ice as above). 3—RASPBERRY VINEGAR, German recipe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Raspberries ... I quart ... Pick and put them in a jar. 2... Vinegar I pint ... Add good white wine vinegar. 3". Cover the jar, and let it stand 8 or lo days in a cool place. 4... Let the juice drain slowly through a clean cloth. 5... Vinegar I pint ... Add to the juice if liked. 6... Sugar I lb. ... Add. 7- Boil in a covered saucepan, but take off the scum as it rises. 8... Strain through muslin into bottles and tie down.BEVERAGES, 455 4.—ELDERBERRY WINE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Elderberries... Choose ripe, freshly-gathered berries and strip them. 7.... Measure them, and put them in a large earthen pan. 3-. Boiling water I gallon to Pour over the berries, press them gallons of fruit down, cover the pan closely and 4... leave it till next day. Strain the juice through a cloth, and squeeze the berries. 5... Measure the juice. 6... Sugar I lb. to each quart 1 Add to the strained juice and boil 7... Cloves A few ... r 20 minutes, skimming all the time. 8... Ginger A little ... 9... When lukewarm put in a dry cask. 10... Yeast I table- spoonful Mix with a little of the wine, and put into the cask. II... Let it remain about a week. 12... When it has ceased to ferment, bung the cask closely. 13... Let it stand some months. 14... Heat a small quantity with or without water, as required for use. 5.-GINGER WINE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-.- 4... Water or cider Sugar Ginger Lemons 14 quarts 12 lbs. ... f'- ::: Bruise the ginger, cut the rind of 1- the lemons very thin, and boil altogether for \ hour. 5... When lukewarm, pour into a clean cask. 6... Lemons 6 Add the strained juice. 7... 8... Raisins |lb. ... Add. Yeast I table- spoonful Add ; let the wine stand 10 da3^s, and stir it every day. 9... Isinglass I oz. Add when fermentation is over. 10... Brandy I pint ... Add, and bung closely. II... Bettle at the end ot 2 months.456 MVRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 6.—AROMATIC WHITE WINE, French recipe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... L^naDlis or -1 or 2 r our into a large china oowl. other dry bottles. white wine. 2... Black currant I dozen. Choose them very fine and fresh, leaves. wipe, and add them to the wine. 3-.. Let it stand an hour. 4... Take out the currant leaves. J*" To taste... Add. sugar 6... Ice Break and add before serving. 7.— BOWLE, German recipe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pine apples ... 2 Peel and cut in very thin slices, and put in a small basin. 2... oiited sugar ... Put on a thick layer. 3--- Rhine wine ... I pint ... Pour over, and let the mixture stand one hour. 4... Champagne ... 2 bottles Pour into a large bowl. 5-. Seltzer water 2 bottles Add. 6... Rhine wine ... 2 bottles Add. 7... Add the fruit and wine in the small basin. 8... Stir with a ladle and stand the bowl in ice. 9... Serve with a ladle, or put it in a large jug. Note.—Other delicate fruits, such as peaches, apricots, and strawberries are equally good. Light Rhine or other German white wines are used in preparing Bowie. 8.—SUMMER CHAMPAGNE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chablis I bottle... Pour into a large jug. 2... Seltzer water 3 bottles Add, and stand the jug in ice. 3..- Sifted sugar ... Put a spoonful in each glass. 4... Pour the wine in, when the sugar 1 will cause it to effervesce.457 BEVERAGES. 9.—0IDER CUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sugar 6 ozs. ... 1 Rub the sugar on the lemon, and 2... Lemon I j put it in a large jug. 3--- Lemon juice ... lemons Add the strained juice, and let it stand till the sugar is dissolved. 4... Cider I bottle... Pour over. 5-.. Sherry 3 wine- Add to the cider. glassesful 1 6... Nutmeg Grate and add. 7... 8... Borage Ice A few sprigs. Add if liked. Place the jug in ice, and serve as cold as possible. 10.—CLARET CUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Claret I bottle ... Pour into a large bowl. 2... Soda water ... I bottle... Add. Lemon peel ... I lemon... Cut thin and add. 4... Mint I sprig ... Add. 5..- Cucumber ... I dozen slices Add. 6... Bay leaves ... 2 Add. 7... Sugar (castor) 3 table- Add. spoonsful 8... Ice fib. ... Add. 9... Cura9oa I table- Add and stir the mixture well. spoonful 10... Allow to stand about \ hour before drinking. 11.—PUNCH. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lemon juice... 3 lemons Squeeze into a basin. 2... Castor sugar... Jib. ... Add. 3--- Rum I pint ... Add. 4... Brandy f pint ... Add. Allow these ingredients to stand 3 or 4 hours. 5... Boiling water I quart ... Add when the punch is required. or milk458 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 12.-MULLED WINE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water J pint ... |oz. Put in a saucepan. 2... Cinnamon Add in powder. 3-" Cloves 2 or 3 ... Add. 4... Sugar 3 ozs. Add and boil altogether till it forms a syrup, then take the saucepan oft' the fire. 5... Claret I bottle... Add and put it on the fire again, but do not let it boil. 6... 7... 8... Brandy Sugar I wine- glassful 3 lumps... 1 Heat together, then add to the wine r if Hked. Serve very hot in glasses. 9... Lemon Put a thin slice in each glass, or put a little of the peel into the wine before heating it. 13.—NEGUS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sugar i ib. ... 1 Rub the sugar on the lemons to get 2... Lemons 2 J the flavour of the peel. 3-.. Water J pint ... Add to the sugar and boil. 4... Nutmeg Grate a little in. .S Lemons Add the strained juice. 6... Port wine I bottle ... Add and heat without boiling. 7... 8... Serve very hot in glasses. Claret may be substituted for port, but in this case there should be less water and only i lemon. 14.—TREACLE POSSET. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk I pint ... Put in a saucepan. 2... Treacle 2 table- Add when the milk is just beginning spoonsful to boil. 3--- 4;- Let it boil up well. Strain and serve very hot.459 INVALID COOKERY. SECTION XXIIL—INVALID COOKERY. In preparing food for the sick-room the utmost care is required. As Httle grease as possible should be used, and all appearance of grease avoided in dishing' up. Strong flavourings of any kind, such as onions and herbs in soups, should never be used. For puddings and sweets a little lemon is the safest flavouring. Always serve food for an invahd in delicately small quantities, and arrange tastefully, and in an appetising manner, upon the plate. If the food is fried it should be most exquisitely done—a beautiful brown, and perfectly drained of all grease. 1.—BEEF TEA. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lean beef (gravy beef) i-Jlbs. ... Cut into thin sHces and put into a stewpan. 2... Peppercorns 6 white, 3 black Add. 3" Salt Avery little Add. 4... Cold water .. 3 pints ... Pour over, bring to the boil, and simmer gently three or four hours. 5... Strain through a fine cloth or napkin (which has previously been dipped into hot water); it is then ready for use. 2.—MUTTON BROTH. According to No. 8, page 5, using very httle celery and only half an onion. 3. -CHICKEN BROTH. See No. 6, Sect. I. 4. —SEMOLINA SOUP. See No. 37, Sect. I. 5.-FISH SOUP. Make the stock according to recipe. Colour with a little browning, add I gill of white wine; cut two fillets of the plaice (which have been previously boiled) into i J inch squares. When the soup boils, put the fillets in to warm through, the soup is then ready to serve. 6.—MEAT JELLY. Make beef-tea according to above recipe; strain into a moistened mould, place in the cool, and when set turn out.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 460 7.—ANOTHER MEAT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock ... ... §-pint ... Made according to No. 60, any strong flavouring being omitted. 2... Gravy from roast mutton or beef \\ gills ... Remove every particle of fat, which will all rise to the top when cold; add the gravy to the stock. 3... Leaf-gelatine i-oz. ...1 Soak the gelatine in the water half- 4... Water ... ... I gill.../ an-hour; put into a sauce-pan, pour the stock and gravy on to it; boil up to dissolve the gelatine, stir all the time. 5... ••• ••• Strain through a fine cloth or napkin 6... into a moistened mould. Stand in a cool place; when set, turn out. 8.—CALF'S FOOT JELLY. Make according to No. i, Sect. XVI., using the juice of 3 lemons only. The whites and shells of 3 eggs will, in most cases, be found sufficient for clearing this quantity of jelly. 9.—PORT WINE JELLY. See No. 13, Sect. XVI. 10.—FISH JELLY. One quart of water; simmer the bones and skin of a plaice, or brill, until reduced to i pint; strain, dissolve \ oz. of gelatine in it, clear and flavour the same as calf s foot jelly. 11.—ARROWROOT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Arrowroot ... \\ table- spoonsful IJ pints... Mix into a smooth paste with a little Gold water. 2... Water 3... Lemon peel ... \ lemon... 1 Boil together \ an hour, stirring until 4... Castor sugar... 2 table- spoonsful 1 the sugar is dissolved. 5... Strain and mix gradually with the arrowroot. Return to the sauce- pan and stir over the fire until clear. 6... Pour into a moistened mould to set. Note.—For Arrowroot Wine Jelly use i pint of water only, and add x wine- glassful of white wine before pouring the mixture into the mould.BEVERAGES FOR INVALIDS. SECTION XXIV.—BEVERAGES FOR INVALIDS: 1—ARROWROOT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Arrowroot ... I dessert- Mix to a smooth paste, with a little spoonful cold water. 2... Boiling water 3 gills ... 3... Castor sugar... I te a- 1 Dissolve the sugar in the water. spoonful 4... ... Mix gradually with the arrowroot, re- turn to the saucepan, stir until it boils. 5^ Bran dy or I table- spoonful |Add. onerry 3 table- spoonsful 0... ... To be taken hot. 2.- -BARLEY WATER. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pearl barley... 2 OZ. Wash well and put into a saucepan. 2... Water i pint ... Pour over and boil 15 minutes. 3- Strain off the water and throw it away. 4... Boiling water 2^ pints... Pour on to the barley; boil until reduced to i J pints (about i hour), strain, let it cool, it is then ready for use. 3.—RICE WATER. Make according to above recipe, using rice instead of barley. 4.- -TOAST WATER. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pieces of bread 2 Toast thoroughly all over, but be about 2 inches careful not to burn. square 2... Place the toast in a jug. 3-" Boiling water IJ pints... Pour over. Cover, and allow to cool.MYRAS COOKERY BOOK, 462 5—LEMONADE. Order. T Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. Juice and nnd of lemon ^ ... X ut into a basin. 2... Loaf sugar ... lib. ... Add. 3-- Boiling water I pint Pour over. Allow the mixture to stand all night. 4... Strain through muslin into a saucepan. Whites and 2 Whisk up in the lemonade until it shells of eggs boils. 6... Allow to boil 2 or 5 minutes. Strain 7... Cold water or I quart ... \ into a basin, and allow to cool. Soda-water... 2 pint bottles I Add. Note.—little ice may be added with advantage, just before drinking. LIST OF PUDDINGS SUITABLE FOR INVALIDS. With references to Recipes. BATTER, Boiled.—See page 333 ; ditto, Bakedy page 336. SEMOLINA—S^^ No. 29, page 324. CUSTARD, Baked.—See No. 49, page 333. (Omit the mace and cinnamon.) RICE.—See No. 21, page 321. (Omit the butter, also the nutmeg, if likely to be objectionable.) TAPIOCA—Make as Rice, Nos. 21 or 25. BREAD & BUTTER—S^^ page 317. (Omit currants.) RICE MILK.—See No. 25, page 323. (Omit almonds, vanilla, and cinnamon.) CORN FLOUR, Baked.—See ^d^g^ 340; ditto, Mould, p. 363. RIZINE, Baked.—See No. 68, page 342; ditto. Mouldy p. 363. BLANC MANGE.—S^^ No. 19, page 361. JAUNE MANGE.—S^^ No. 21, page 361. ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE.—S^^ No. 3, p. 344. PEARS, Stewed.—See No. 20, page 402.463 FOOD FOR INVALIDS. FISH. WHITING, Boiled. Cover with cold water, boil 10 minutes, garnish the dish with parsley, serve a little melted butter in a tureen. WHITING, Fried. No. 39, page 54. Garnish with fresh parsley, and serve plain melted butter in a tureen. TURBOT, Boiled. A piece of a large turbot, cover with cold water, and boil 6 minutes for every pound. Garnish with parsley, and serve melted butter in a tureen. Note.—Before placing- in the fishkettle, the fish should be rubbed over with lemon, and allowed to soak in cold water i to 2 hours ; and before pouring the water into the fish kettle, cover the fi§h with a piect^ of muslin, and tuck it under the fish all round ; this preserves the whiteness of the fish, and prevents the skin from cracking;. SOLES, Boiled—See No. 28, page 48. SOLES, Fried.—See No. 30, page 49. SMELTS, Fried.—See recipe for Whiting. POULTRY AND GAME Can be cooked for Invalids according to the Recipes given in the preceding pages. All seasoning, however, and rich gravies should be avoided. MEATS. MUTTON CHOP, Grilled Choose a nice loin chop, remove all fat, grill very carefully, and serve v^ith the gravy that runs from it. MUTTON CHOP, Boiled Remove all fat, put into boiling v^^ater, and boil 8 minutes. Sei-ve with a little melted butter. MUTTON OUTLET .~-S^^ No. 14, page 120. LAMB CHOP—S^^ No. 12, page 140. LAMB OUTLET—S^^ No. 11, page 140.INDEX. Anchovy toast Apple Charlotte (I.).. „ Charlotte (II.) „ Charlotte (III.) „ cake „ „ (invalid) „ dumplings „ fritters „ marmalade . „ meringues Suedoise Apples, a r Anglaise „ au beurre „ au beurre et aux con- fitures „ en croustade „ with rice Arrowroot ... '. Artichokes, boiled . „ fried Jerusalem Asparagus, boiled Bacon, for larding „ olives... Barley water... Beef, to boil ... aitchbone, boiled silverside, boiled boiled, au gratin a la mode a I'etouffee broiled boulettes cakes collared... carbonades, a la Fla- mande en daube en mirotan fillet, a la jardiniere 424 395 396 335 363 462 316 309 393 398 399 395 394 394 397 397 461 210 436 211 200 154 439 461 69 70 71 86 73 77 84 85 438 83 78 74 84 75 Beef, fillet, with macaroni ... „ fillet, with tomatoes ... „ fried „ grenadins „ kidney, saut6 kidney, saute, another way ... „ minced „ miriton of ... „ and potato sandwiches „ olives „ „ another receipt... preparation for keeping „ rolled ribs, braised „ rolled ribs, roasted „ sirloin, roasted ff steak, broiled ... „ steak, stewed ... „ steaks, French receipt „ steaks, another French receipt »» tea turnovers Biscuits, almond ,, aniseed ,, crisp sweet Blanc mange, arrowroot n M M (in- valid) „ „ English receipt „ another receipt „ „ (invalid) „ „ French receipt „ „ to colour Bowie Brain cakes Brawn Bread made with German yeast Bread rolls Bread and jam crutards PAGE 75 76 84 76 79 80 87 78 438 67 68 68 67 71 72 72 72 459 85 377 378 377 344 462 343 361 462 343 361 456 437 153 391 392 338ii INDEX. PAGE Broad Beans 212 Broccoli, boiled 211 Broth, mutton (invalid) ... 459 ,, chicken (invalid) ... 459, Browning ... 290 Brussels sprouts, boiled ... 212 „ sautes ... 211 Buns, almond 371 ,, lemon ... ... ... 371 » rice 372 Cabbage, boiled ... ... 212 „ stuffed 213 Cake, almond ... ... 370 „ Baba 382 cinnamon ... ... 370 „ citron ... ... ... 365 „ Frankfort 369 „ icing for (I.) ... ... 367 „ icing for (II.) 367 „ King Charles 384 lemon ... ... ... 368 „ luncheon ... ... 389 „ luncheon, another ... 389 luncheon, very econo- mical ... ... 390 „ plain dough ... ... 369 „ plain plum ... ... 366 „ plum ... ... ... 366 „ potato ... ... ... 370 „ pound ... 365 „ rice ... ... ... 368 „ rich 364 „ Savarin ... ... 383 „ seed 390 „ sponge 368 „ sweet egg 261 „ tipsy, and custard for same... ... ... 380 Cakes, Bretzeln, German re- ceipt 376 „ Brioche 374 „ croquets ... ... 388 „ croquignoles 387 „ fish 62 „ Genoese 386 „ gimblettes 385 Kringeln, German re- ceipt 375 i »'ttle 379 Cakes, Madeleines PAGE 374 Milanese rolls •« 387 »> milk ... ... ,., 372 M ^CtlLO L.liL/UA. ... ... 3^1 M 391 }f small chocolate 376 " small cream . . 377 small egg 260 small lemon ..• 376 391 Calf's brains ... 112 ti brains, a la maitre d'h6tel 92 brains, au beurre noir 93 ty brains fried ... 94 t) sauce ... ... 100 tt feet, a la poulette ... lOo if head, a la poulette *.* 9^ tt head, baked ... ... 90 tt head, boiled ... 91 It heart, roasted 103 tt liver and bacon 105 tt liver, a la bourgeoise 104 tt liver, roasted... 103 11 liver, saute ... 100 sweetbread, stewed ... 107 Carrots, a la maitre d'hdtel... 213 n boiled 214 Catchup, mushroom 203 , walnut 2o2 Cauliflower, boiled 214 „ French way 215 „ cheese 215 Celery, au jus . ... 216 boiled 210 Champagne, summer 450 Cheesecakes 312 „ another 379 ,, lemon ... 3«o Cheese straws 425 toasted 425 Chestnuts, crystallized 416 Chicken, a la bourgeoise ... lOO a la Diable... I i^Q a la Marengo 162 au blanc 161 broiled 163 filletted 164 roast (invahd) 463ill INDEX. Chicken, saut6 PAGE 163 Cider, Cup 457 Claret, Cup 457 Compote, apricot 393 carrots 401 ,, cherry 399 „ chestnut 400 ,, gooseberry 400 orange 402 „ pear, a I'eau 402 pear, au vin 403 „ pineapple... 401 „ prune 404 „ strawberry 400 Cornflour, as thickening 290 Cornish meat pasties 301 89 Cow-heel Crabs, to drsss 64 Cream, Bavarian 344 caramel 345 „ oocoa-nut 350 „ coffee 346 „ economical 347 ,, fruit ... 350 „ Italian 352 ,, lemon ... 349 stone 348 vanilla 348 „ whipped, a la Chan- tilly 347 „ wine 350 Croquettes of chicken or veal ^3 Cucumber, stewed ... 249 Cucumbers, stuffed 216 Currants, crystaUized 416 Custard, cornflour... 264 ,, English 263 „ French 262 Dampfnudeln, or steamed dumplings 308 Darioles, French receipt ... 332 ,, a la duchesse ... 386 Dried peas, puree of... ... 223 Duck, to truss 175 „ roasted 176 „ salmis of 178 „ stewed with peas ... 177 „ with turnips, French receipt 176 PAGE Dumplings, apple 310 >» Carthusian ... 319 Eggs, boiled ... !) hard boiled ... )> a la moutarde ... 253 )} a I'ecossaise ... 254 11 brouill6s or mumbled 255 11 cheese, or fondue 260 11 with cheese, another receipt 426 11 fried ... 252 11 poached 252 11 poached, en matelote 253 snow ... 261 11 stuffed ... 254 11 sur le plat 256 Fish Brill, boiled 37 „ Brill, a la Parisienne 37 „ Cakes ... 62 „ Carp, boiled 55 „ Carp, a la mariniere ... 56 Cod, fresh, boiled ... 38 „ Cod, curried ... ... 39 ,, Cod, salted 38 ,, Cod, salt, a la creme ... 38 Eels, baked 57 Eels, boiled ... ... 57 ,, Eels, collared... ... 59 Eels, en matelote ... 59 Eels, fried 58 „ Eels, stewed 57 Gudgeon, fried ... 60 ,, Haddock, baked ... 40 Herrings, baked ... 41 Herrings, broiled ... 40 John Dory, boiled ... 41 Mackerel, a la maitre d'h6tel 41 „ Mackerel, boiled ... 42 „ Mullet 42 ,, Mullet, red 43 ,, Perch 60 ,, Pike, roasted ... ... 60 „ Plaice, filleted 43 ,, Salmon, baked ... 45 „ Salmon, boiled, English way,., ... 43INDEX. PAGE PAGE Fish— -Salmon, boiled, French Fowl, croquettes 167 way 45 ,, curried... 166 >> Salmon, pickled 44 „ fricass6ed 160 if Salmon scallops 46 „ stewed, en daube 158 Salmon steaks 44 ,, with rice 157 V Scalloped, cold fish ... 61 to warm up cold 166 Shad 46 ,, receipt for making 11 Shad, way to carve ... 47 tender 150 11 Skate, au beurre noir... Skate, crimped, boiled 48 French beans, to keep 218 11 47 „ „ or kidney n Skate, fried ... 47 beans 217 M Smelts 47 „ „ a r^tuvee 219 It ,, (invalid) 463 „ a la m a 1 tre 11 Soles, au gratin 50 d'hdtel 219 11 Soles, boiled 48 „ „ a la poulette... 218 >1 Soles, filleted ... 50 „ „ sautes 215 11 Soles, fried, English French gateau 329 way 49 Fritters, apple, French re- ft Soles, fried, French ceipt 309 way 49 „ batter for ... 309 11 Soles (invalid) 463 cream 334 tl Sprats, broiled 51 Fruit, to bottle 423 ti Tench ... 61 Fruit turnovers 311 11 Trout, boiled ... 61 tl Trout, stewed... 61 tt Turbot, a la HoUan- Gingerbread 373 daise 52 ,, nuts 373 tt Turbot, au gratin 53 Gnocchi, Italian receipt 428 tt Turbot, boiled 51 Golden fingers 319 11 Turbot (invalid) 463 Goose, to truss ^74 It Whitebait, fried 53 roasted 175 tt Whitebait, Greenwich „ potted, French re- style 53 ceipt 175 tt Whiting, au gratin ... 54 Gooseberry fool (!.)••• 316 tt Whiting, fried 54 M (11.) 405 11 Whiting (invalid) 463 Gravy, to clarify 270 Forcemeat, or stuffing for Green peas, boiled ... 220 veal 284 ,, ,, a la Fran9aise ... 221 tt sage and onion ... 285 ,, French way 220 tt balls for jugged „ „ puree of... 222 hare ... 286 „ ,, stewed with tin- tt calfs liver 287 ned meat 222 tt for chickens 285 „ „ with bacon 222 tt 11 for game pie turnovers 296 425 Grouse 202 Fowl, to truss 156 Ham, boiled (I.) 147 tl boiled ... 158 „ „ (11.) ... 155 tl roast 157 Hare, to truss 185 It a la Montmorency 165 „ en civet 186 It cold, en blanquette ... 167 „ hashed 187INDEX. V PAGE Hare, jugged i86 „ roasted 185 Haricot beans, boiled ... 224 PAGE Kedgeree ... ••. .•■ 64. Lamb, blanquette of... 142 breast of, en fricassee n8 ,, chops ... 140 chops (invaUd) 4.6^ ,, cutlets, French receipt I AO ,, cutlets, with French beans 140 cutlets (invalid) ,, forequarter of, roasted * 0^ ,, leg, boiled n8 ,, leg, roasted ... 137 ,, loin, roasted ... ,, quarter, boned ... ragout of saddle, roasted I ^7 ,, shoulder, glazed ,, shoulder, with green peas I ,, target, roasted 11'? Lamb's fry 141 Landrail ... ... ... 20^ Lard, to melt... ... ... I Larks, a la minute ... 205 roasted 204 Leeks ... 22t; Lemonade 454 (invalid) 462 Lentils, a la maitre d hotel ... 224 ,, puree of ... Lobster cutlets Lobster cutlets another re~ A Id Lobsters, to dress 64 Macaroons 6iy Macaroni, au gratin ... .,, 4.2 Q cheese 430 ,, en timbale p timbales, another Italian way 4.20 „ with tomato sauce 430 Macedoine of fruit ... 404 ,, of vegetables 243 Meat rolls 302 ,, to curry 271 Meringues Milk pancakes 308 Mincemeat 305 Jam, black currant 423 ,, cherry ... ... ... 407 damson cheese... ... 423 ,, gooseberry ... ... 409 „ greengage 410 ,, mulberry ... ... 411 raspberry ... ... 423 red currant ... ... 408 ,, rhubarb ... ... 412 „ strawberry (I.) ... 413 ,, strawberry (II.) ... 413 Jam sandwiches ... ... 306 Jaune mange... ... ... 361 ,, ,, (invahd) ... 462 Jelly, aspic, for cold meat ... 290 ,, aspic, for poultry ... 360 M apple 357 „ apricot 356 arrowroot ... ... 460 ,j black currant 355 black currant, another 409 „ calf's foot 353 ,, calf's foot (invalid) ... 460 „ claret ... _ 362 currant, French receipt 408 „ fish 460 for cold meats ... ... 359 M fruit 354 „ fruit in 355 M gi^ape 410 „ isinglass ... ... 354 meat ... ... ... 459 ,, meat, another ... ... 460 ,, medlar ... ... ... 356 M orange 353 ,, port wine ... ... 358 ,, port wine (invalid) ... 460 punch ... ... ... 359 V quince 357 raspberry ... ... 412 red currant ... ... 355 „ to clarify 360 „ white currant 409 ,, white wine ... ... 358 ,, wine, another ... ... 358VI INDEX. PAGE iVllilLC IJICS att iViutton, neck, -Doiied... ... 118 Mouldj caramel ... ... p neck, roasted ... V puuuiiig ... ... 118 Charlotte Russe IC? T 2A chocolate Ot^ saddle, roasted 116 cornflour shoulder, braised 117 ff chocolate, with corn- shoulder, roasted 116 flour sliced ... I jaune mange... sliced, a la bour- Mont Blanc geoise 130 OCT rice ... ... 222 Negus ^lushrooms broiled ... 226 Normandy pippins 2A2 on toast 227 Nougat sautes ... 226 Nouilles au jambon ... ... 4j)* ,, stewed... ... 226 to preserve 422 tnf--!/''f' an Tvr^mQO"/* V/JLllCICL, «.U ilVJllJCtgC ... .■• 2i;8 Mutton, breast, broiled ,, au lard 2K7 breast stewed 122 au pain ... ... 2";8 boulettes . •. ... 120 ,, au rhum ... ... ,, chop, boiled (invalid) A62 aux anchois... ... 2t:8 chops, broiled T TO „ aux fines herbes ... chop, grilled (invalid) Afi2 souflflee .. . • ^jv chops, w^ith bread with asparagus ... crumbs > .. 120 ^^ith mushrooms ... J, crocjuettcs ••• T 21 with onions... ... 1, cutlets, a la jardi— Omelets remarks on ... Onions, glaces .■• ... 260 121 227 cutlets a la Main" Orangeade ... ... ... A<.A 122 Orange flowers, candied 418 cutlets sautees . >. 120 Orange flower souffles 418 cutlets, with rice ... 122 Orange marmalade 411 cutlets, with vege~ 402 tables ... ... A\*1 cutlets (invalid) •«. Ortolans, roasted ... 20 ,, emince of ..• ... 1 on Oyster loaves... AAQ haricot ... 124 v_/ji'otcio, ocetmj^cvj ... ... 66 haricot economical... \22 p Scotch ... A2(i stewed ... 66 TIT stewedj another re- hashed another ceipt ff Irish stew .t* ••• 124 Ox brains en matelote ... 82 J, palate, k la mfenagerc ... 82 lie tail, en hochepot... ... 81 80 If leg, braised TIC * *5 tongue, en daube ... leg, roasted ... 114 „ tongue, boiled ... 89 „ loin, roasted,.. 117 „ loin, stewed like Parsnips, boiled 229 venison ... 118 Partridges, to truss „ loin, stuffed 117 „ au chasseur 200 „ minced ,, aux choux 198INDEX. vii PAGE Partridges, braised 199 „ broiled ... ... 198 „ ragout of ... 201 „ roasted 197 „ souffle of ... 201 Pancakes ... ... ... 264 „ milk 308 Paste, American puff ... 292 „ crisp, for tarts ... 291 „ dripping 292 „ French puff 292 „ for custards ... ... 294 „ for game pies 297 „ for meat pies ... ... 292 „ German, for fruit tarts 293 „ German, without yeast 294 „ light, for tarts ... 291 „ plain yeast 294 f, puff 311 „ rich puff 291 „ to glaze 294 to ice ... ... ... 294 Pasties, Cornish meat ... 301 Pastry, on making 291 V fried 310 n Swiss 331 Windsor ... ... 307 Patties, bread 424 „ cheese, German re- ceipt 425 „ oyster 302 Pears, stewed "... ... 402 „ stewed (invalid) ,,. 462 Pheasant, to truss 196 „ roasted ... ... 196 „ salmis of 197 Pickle for boiled beef ... 441 „ for beef 441 „ for beef, ham, and tongues ... ... 442 „ Hamburg ... ... 442 ,, sweet, for bacon ... 443 Pickled beetroot ^ ... ... 443 „ cabbage ... ... 444 „ eschalots 444 „ gherkins 445 „ lemons 445 „ mushrooms ... ... 446 „ nasturtiums 447 „ onions ... ... 447 PAGE Pickled walnuts ... ... 448 Pickles, Archard ... ... 449 „ chutney 452 Indian ... ... 451 „ mixed 449 sweet melon ... 452 Pickhng, remarks on ... 453 Pie, chicken ... ... ... 298 M fish 63 „ forcemeat 427 »» game 295 M giblet 312 „ paste, for game 297 „ lark 298 „ mutton 300 „ pigeon 297 M pork 300 „ rabbit ... ... ... 298 „ rump steak 299 „ savoury 434 „ veal and ham ... ... 299 Pigeons, to truss 178 a la crapaudine ... 180 „ en compote .... 179 „ roasted 178 „ stewed, with maca- roni ... ... 179 „ stuffed, a la cra- paudine 181 Pig's cheek, a la bourgeoise 148 „ cheek, English fashion 148 „ cheek, stuffed 148 „ feet, a la sainte Mene- hould 150 „ feet, French receipt ... 149 Pig's head, roasted 146 kidneys ... ... 150 Pilau ... 432 Pippins, Normandy ... ... 342 Pork cheese ... ... ... 152 chine, boiled ... ... 145 ,, chine, roasted ... ... 145 ,, chops, French receipt... 146 cutlets ... ... ... 151 „ cutlets, vdth vegetables 146 „ hashed 152 „ hochepot 150 „ leg, boiled 144 „ leg, roasted ... ... 144 „ loin, roasted 145INDEX. viii Pork, roast, French receipt ... PAGE 145 11 sparerib, roasted 144 Posset treacle 458 Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel 230 1* baked, with meat... 249 baked in their skins 250 If boiled 229 It fried 230 11 mashed 232 ti new, boiled 229 f} new, French way... 229 11 soufflees ... 233 M with bacon 231 M with parsley, Ger- man receipt 232 Potato boulettes 231 11 croquettes 250 11 loaves 250 11 ribbons 232 11 souffle 328 Poultry and game for invalids 463 Preserve, apricot 406 i> vegetable marrow 414 Preserved apricots, v^hole ... 407 It fruit in bottles ... 421 tt Morella cherries in brandy 419 tt plums in brandy 420 If nuts and walnuts 415 Ptarmigan, Blackcock 202 Puddings 313 Pudding, amber 327 M baked apple 315 tt baked plum 314 11 baked raisin 339 11 batter 333 It batter, baked 336 11 batter (invalid) ... 462 11 beefsteak... 313 It biscuit 330 ft Bombay ... 318 It bread 315 11 bread and butter ... 317 If bread and butter (invalid) 462 11 bread and cheese... 317 11 cabinet 328 11 cabinet, another ... 337 t* Christmas plum ... 335 cornflour 340 PAGE Pudding, cornflour (invalid) 462 „ cornflour and jam... 341 ,, custard, baked ... 333 custard, baked (in- valid) 462 „ date 326 11 fig 326 ,, Frankfort 341 11 fruit 315 ,, German bread ... 320 lemon ... ... 326 ,, lemon, baked ... 333 marmalade, rizine... 342 „ marmalade (I.) ... 325 „ marmalade (II.) ... 325 „ new hasty 332 „ peas 340 „ plain rizine, baked 342 1, plum 314 „ potato ... ... 329 „ prune 326 „ raisin, cornflour ... 339 „ rice (I.) 321 „ rice (II.) 321 „ rice (III.) 322 „ rice (invalid) ... 462 „ rice milk (invalid) 462 „ rizine (invalid) ... 462 „ roly-poly 316 ,, roly-poly, baked ... 317 Roman ... ... 331 sago and macaroni biscuit 325 „ semolina 324 „ semolina (invalid) 462 fi suet 339 „ tapioca 324 „ tapioca (invalid) ... 462 „ tapioca and custard 338 vermicelli ... ... 324 ,, Yorkshire ... ... 313 Punch 457 Puree of dried peas 223 Quails, to truss 203 „ au chasseur 204 „ broiled 203 roasted 203 Quenelles, forcemeat balls ... 286INDEX, PAGE Rabbit, a la Bourguignonne 189 Sauce a la maitre d'hotel, a la Proven^ale ... another au chasseur IQO a la bechamel 21A boiled 192 iq6 a la moutarde... 272 ,j curried ... .., au beurre noir 278 en civet 191 au pauvre homme en gibelotte ... blanquette 27Q ff roasted 188 blanche, or melted roasted, French re- butter 265 ceipt IQI braise 280 stewed with vege- bread ... 260 tables IQ^ bread, with onions ... 269 with herbs ... ... >> brown J to serve with Ramequins 426 cutlets, &c.... 289 Raspberry vinegar ... t caper ... Rhubarb charlotte ... 336 egg 268 fool ... ... ... Espagnole 211 Rice croquets for all purposes 272 ,, croquets, another receipt 337 Hollandaise ... 270 milk horseradish ... 281 water ... 461 horseradish, another... 288 Turkish way ... Italienne 27^ Riosso, Italian receipt 433 lobster ... 268 Rizine, as thickening 290 mayonnaise ... 28^ pudding 342 melted butter, another 288 Rolls, made with German mint ... 266 yeast 392 onion ... 266 made with baking onion, another 288 powder 392 oyster... 267 Roux, coloured 271 parsley and butter ... 288 ,, white ... 271 piquante 278 piquante, another 278 Sage and onion stuffing ... piquante, another 289 Salads... ... ... ... poivrade 281 Salad, method of preparing... M red currant jelly 28^ „ dressing for ... 244 remolade 276 „ dressing prepared Robert 276 beforehand... 11 savoury 271; „ beef 87 shrimp 267 „ fish 247 Soubise, French onion 267 ff fish, another way 2d7 to serve with roast „ French beans... 246 rabbit 192 ,, lobster... 65 M to take the fat off 270 „ plain ... 245 to thicken 270 „ potato 245 V to thicken with egg ... 270 tomato 246 Tartare 281 Salsify, stewed 233 11 tomato 277 284 ,, fried 234 wine, for puddings ... Sauce, apple 266 clear wine 284 „ a la maitre d'hotel ... 274 Sausage meat 154INDEX. X PAGE PAGE Sausage rolls ,.. ... 301 Soup, mutton broth ... 5 Scones, made with baking ,, onion ... 11 powder 392 ,, onion, with cheese 12 bea-kale, boiled 235 ,, oyster ... 32 ,, stewed in gravy ... 235 ,, ox-cheek 27 Sheep's hearts 135 ,, partridge 29 kidneys 125 potato and sorrel 14 kidneys, another re- pumpkin 15 ceipt 135 ,, rice (I.) 15 kidneys, broiled 125 rice (II.) 19 ,, kidneys, sautes 126 ,, rice (III.), simpler 19 liver, a la menagere 120 rice milk 20 tongues, en papillotes 128 rice and tomato 26 trotters, a la poulette 127 sago 21 Snipe, &c., to truss ... 206 ,, sago milk 21 or woodcock, roasted 206 ,, semolina 22 ,, salmis of 206 ,, semolina (invalid) 459 Smelts, fried (invalid) 463 „ semolina milk ... 22 Soles, ifried (invalid).. 463 ,, shrimps... 36 Sorrel, French receipt 235 sorrel, with cream IS Souffle, bread and butter ... 31^ spinach 12 bournes, savoury 435 ,, split pea 13 Soup, almond 26 stock, made in hour ... 2 ,, bouillabaisse ... 30 ,, stock, Pot-au-feu 2 bourgeoise 25 „ stock, Pot-au-feu, an- bread, or panada 24 other ... 4 cabbage 10 stock, quickly made ... I cabbage, without meat 17 stock, quickly made, „ chicken broth... 4 another I „ chicken broth, another 5 strong fish stock 29 method „ tapioca (I.) 23 „ crawfish, bisque 33 „ tapioca (II.) 23 „ fish 32 „ vegetable 7 „ fish (invalid) 459 „ vegetable, without meat 10 „ fish, with herbs 31 „ vegetable, a puree 8 „ flour ... 10 vegetable, thick Q „ forcemeat ball 24 vermicelli 22 „ green pea 9 water Souchy ... 33 „ hare 25 boups, to clear 34 „ haricot bean ... II Spanish onions, a I'etuvee ... 228 „ Italian pasjte ... 25 Spinach, au jus 236 „ lentils ... 10 ,, an entree ... 240 „ macaroni 21 „ boiled 236 „ maigre, without meat 16 bponge sandwiches ... 327 maize . . 20 Stock economical ... ... „ meat broth, or Con- „ ' fish ... ... 36 somme 6 Sucking pig, roast ... 143 „ milk 23 Suet crust 292 f., mock turtle 27 Sugar, to boil for syrups 415 „ mock turtle, another... 35 „ to clarify 415XI INDEX. 3" Turnovers, fruit 458 „ mulled PAGE PAGE Talmouses 435 Veal, blanquette of 109 Tapioca and custard 338 breast, roasted 100 Tart, apple 304 breast, with white sauce lOI apple, German receipt 306 cake III „ cranberry 304 ,, croquettes 110 French ... 307 „ cutlets 95 „ fruit 303 ,, cutlets a la bourgeoise 95 „ rhubarb 304 cutlets, glazed ... 97 Tartlets 305 ,, cutlets, sautees 96 Teal, Widgeon 209 cutlets, with sorrel 97 Tim bales of macaroni, „ fillet, roasted 98 other receipt 440 fricandeau of ... 102 Toast, water ... 461 „ shoulder, roasted 99 Tomatoes and mushrooms 248 ,, shoulder, stewed 99 puree of ... 238 „ galantine of 112 preserved... 413 ,, knuckle of, boiled lOI roasted 239 loin, roasted ... 99 „ stewed 238 ,, minced ... 109 „ stuffed 237 458 Vegetable marrow, aT^tuvee „ „ baked ... 242 Treacle posset 242 Turbot, boiled (invalid) 463 168 boiled ... 241 Turkey, to truss a ... Venison, collops 184 „ boiled 170 Venison cutlets 184 giblets, a la bour- „ haunch, roasted ... 182 geoise 171 „ hashed 183 „ roasted 169 „ neck and shoulder... 182 salmis of ... 173 stewed 183 stewed, en daube 171 Vinegar, raspberry ... 454 to warm up, a Va Vols-au-vent, small ... 303 bonne Femme 172 to warm up. en Wild duck, to truss 207 capitolade 172 „ „ to carve 208 „ to warm up, a la roasted ... 207 chipolata... 173 M M ragout of 209 Turnips, boiled 239 „ „ salmis of 208 „ French way 239 Windbags, German receipt 320 ,f a la poulette 240 Wine, white, aromatic 456 ,^ minced 240 „ elderberry 455 „ with mustard sauce 241 M ginger 455HEALTH AND PERSONAL ATTENTION. (See Myra's Answers in Myra's Journal.") EXTRACT FROM :E=>c^s>rrj^x^ toilet PHILIP H. MASON3 LIST Pharmaceutical Chemist, Bank Plain, Norwich. The entire list (containing some 80 preparations) will he sent hy return post on the rece^pt of stamped address. NOTICE. articles in this List adn.it of Postal Transit, and will be delivered Iree per Post at the prices .ar.ed, secure from observation and carefully packed. MYUA'S " esteemed notices of a few The immense number of Postal app^^^^^^^^^ of Mr. MASON'S Preparations show that there are ^^^^ ^j^^.^ immediate neighbours for ^'?.t^aratTaf?'BL^^^^^ '''' thousand-and-one toilette 'rSiS and medicinal remedies in daily use. RTOOM OF STEPHANOTIS.-An exquisite cremny whiteSkinandComplex onPp^^^^^^^ It imparts a beautiful natura whiteness aud youthful softness and delicacy to the skin The painful " flushing of the face, brownness of the neck or arms, undue red- ness of the face and hands, are obviated by one application. For personal appearance at court, the ball, or concert it is indispen- sable it represses the unpleasantness of perfp ration audits disagreeableaccompani- Sients. Travellers and residents m warm f^iimntps will find it invaluable. it so entirely prevents the discolouring ^ction o? the sun on the skin, that freckles are almost unknown to those who use it It is absolutely harmless and }nnocent ^^ I^^ polished apple-wood case, with toilet-puff, A ONE ^"^LOTION (Steachan's). - Specially adapted to remove blackheads, and that V greasy appearance of the skin which is a A fZmon symptom in some varieties of Aone 3s. 3d. per case. DANDRIFFINB.-Anexquisitepreparationfor tii n^^^^^^ removal of Scurf or Dandnff and for preventing its re-appearance. It is a most invariably successful, and though it contains no grease, the hair needs no other drpssinff during its use. 3s. bd. per case. GLYCERoiB of TANNIN.-This elegant preparationiscalculatedtoremovewrmkles and to tighten the skin and restore its tonicity when loose and flabby. It is also the mo^t effective appUcation to that cause of so much annoyance-a red nose. Is. 6d., 3s. 6d. per case. ^ xs kt^\ ThP SULPHUR SOAP (FOE the natural colour of the Hair is due to an organic pigment into the composition ot which sulphur and iron largely enter. It is believed that in many cases grey hair is due solely to a deficiency of this natural secret on of sulphur. In such cases the sulphur may be supplied to the hair glands bJ occasionally washing the hair and scalp with the above soap. It is most particularly recommended that in cases of incipient greyness this should be tried before artificial colour restorers are resorted to. It is also the best Soap for cleansing the hair before applying any dye or colour restorer, as it greatly quickens and enhances their action. It is also of great service for washingthe skin in many cases of eruption and skin disease Is. 3d. post free. _ EXTRACT OF SEA WRACK (Fucus Vesi- CULOSUS).—The new remedy for obesity. XThis preparation has met with a wondertul demand. Its effects in some cases seem magical. It is perfectly safe for the most delicate constitutions. Price 3s. 3d. per case. EXTRACT OF SEA WRACK PILLS Are prepared for those who prefer it in this form —each pill containing one dose of the ex- tract-at the same price. 3s. 3d. per case. JABORANDI HAIR TONIC-Prepare^ from selected South American Jaborandi Leaves containing the newly discovered alkaloid Pilocarpine. Highly recommended by medical authority as a hitherto unapproach- able stimulant to rapid growth of hair. Used not only to prevent the hair falling, but to stop advance of greyness and induce vigorous secretion of the natural colouring pigment. 3s. 6d., 10s. 6d. DEPILATORY (Powdee).—Mr. Mason is con- tinually asked by Ladies for a Depilatory which will, in one application, not only remove existing superfluous hair, but also prevent its re-appearance. He wishes clearly to state that it is impossible to do this. All that can be done is to remove the hair; after which an occasional subsequent application on the surface of the skin will prevent it from attaining a visible growth. The above preparation will do this without injury to the skin—more Science cannot achieve. With directions, 2s.; 3s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. THE GARRISON HAIR DYE.—An absolutely harmless hair dye in one solution. Easy in appUcation, rapid, cleanly, and almost infallibly certain in effect. This is the hair dye par excellence for those who prefer a dye in one solution. Black or Brown, 3s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. For other Hair Dyes and Colour Bestojers, see the EntireTHE "DDCPSS" Corset (THOMAS'S patent) Is constructed on a graceful model for the present style of dress, the shape being per- manently retained by a series of narrow whalebones placed diagonally across the front, gradually curving in and contracting the Corset at the bottom of the busk, whereby the size of the figure is reduced, the outline improved, a permanent support afforded, and a fashionable and elegant appearance secured. The Corsets are made in Black, White, Cardinal and Grey. Prices—10s. 6d. and 14s. 6d.; Satin, los. 6d. and 21 s. The Celebrated Taper Busk nsed in these Corsets is the most supple and com- fortable of all Busks. On purchasing it is necessary to see that the name " W. TKOIMCAS " is stamped on the Corset. YOUNG, CARTER & OVEHALL, 117 118, WOOD STREBT, Sole Proprietors and Successors to W. THOMAS Queen Victoria Street and Cheapside. May he vwchased of all Drapers and Ladies* Outfitters. YGANDO "GOOD SENSE" Patent CORDED Corset Waists (AxGLo-American Manufacture) BEST for KEiiliTH, Comfort, Wear, and Flnisb. EVERYBODY RECOMMENDS THEM. * * * PERFECT IN FIT. For Ladies, Misse?, and Children. Fitted witli Patent Tape-fastened Buttons; can't pull off; also Patent Cord-edged Button-hole, will not wear out. ilsk your DRAPER or OUTFITTER for them. On account of Inferior Imitations, see each pair stamped YCANDO GOOD SENSE." WHITE AKTD BRAB. Child's. Girl's. Young Lady's. Lady's. Quality A 3/- 3/6 4/3 & 5/- 6/6 \ Also made in Scarlet Quality B 4/- 4/3 4/9 & 5/3 8/9 f and Natural Wool Lasting. YOUNG, CARTER &*6viRALL*ll7*& llVwOOD STREET, LONDON.SILKS, DpSSES, COSTUpS, MANTLES, DRAPERY, LACE, GLOVES, HOSIEItY, OUTFITTING, i BOOTS, SHOES. : < j Oxford St. Peter RoMi|soD, COURT 1 and i GENERAL \ PURNING. i Regent St." A mine of wealth to Ladies."—Sfa/7c/arc/. Yearly Subscription, Post Free, 9/- to England, Europe, and North America ; Elsewhere, 11/-