358 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. (2) TREATMENT OF RUPTURED (DIFFUSE) FEMORAL ANEURYSM.—Should the sac of the aneurysm have ruptured, the best treatment will be the old operation (just described) of cutting down upon the tumour, turning out the clot from the sac and the tissues around, ligaturing both ends of the vessel, and, if possible, excising the sac wall. In former times rupture of a femoral aneurysm was regarded as an accident which necessitated amputation, partly on account of the great risk of gangrene if the artery were ligatured, owing to the collateral circulation being inter- fered with by the clots infiltrating the tissues around, and partly on account of the risk of suppuration in the limb which resulted from septic infection of the clot. At the present time this latter risk is of course entirely avoided by adequate antiseptic precautions, and the clots which occur as the result of rupture of the aneurysm may therefore be safely turned out; the pressure upon the collateral circulation is thereby relieved, and the risk of gangrene from this cause avoided. Hence amputation should not be performed in these cases unless it is evident that gangrene has set in. It will often be found that, in spite of ligature of the main artery above and below the aneurysm, oozing still takes place into the sac; this generally comes from small branches given off from the aneurysm which must be isolated and tied, as otherwise very considerable bleeding into the cavity caused by the extravasation of blood may occur, and serious pressure upon the collateral circulation may result. Any clots present in the tissues around are turned out, a drainage tube or tubes (No. 14-18) are inserted and the wound is stitched up. The usual antiseptic dressings are applied, the limb is put up on a splint in the elevated position and watched carefully for signs of gangrene (see p. 356). It is necessary to employ a drainage tube in these cases because of the oozing that must necessarily occur into the large cavity left. This latter cannot be obliterated by sponge pressure in the ordinary way, as that would entail too much interference with the collateral circulation and a serious risk of gangrene. POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. The popliteal artery is one of the most common seats of aneurysm, and it is most prone to occur in men whose occupations lead to frequent, rapid, and violent flexion of the knee. In former times it was very common in conductors of coaches, and it is also not at all infrequent in soldiers and sailors. The aneurysm gives rise to difficulty in using the knee, and pain along the course of the nerves, especially the internal popliteal; it is particularly liable to become ruptured and diffuse from the forcible flexions of the knee. The posterior ligaments of the knee joint may be eroded and the aneurysm may burst into the articulation, or it may become diffused into the popliteal space itself, or may make its way through the skin over it.