CLUB-FOOT. 58 and the back of the leg. The position of the tendon is made much more evident by putting the foot upon the stretch whilst the puncture in the skin is being made; as soon, however, as this is done the tendon should be relaxed as much as possible by depressing the toes, in order to enable the surgeon to insinuate his knife more readily between it and the skin. The foot should be in the charge of an assistant, so that the surgeon is free to employ the fore-finger of his left hand to ascertain the progress of his knife as he insinuates it between the skin and the back of the tendon, and to make sure that no tendinous fibres are left between the knife and the skin (see Fig. 27, B). When the point of the knife has been passed well across to the opposite border of the tendon, the cutting edge is turned towards the latter, and then the assistant puts the tendon firmly upon the stretch whilst the surgeon presses the knife against it and divides it with a steady, slight sawing movement; when the division is complete the tendon suddenly gives way and a gap appears between the divided ends. Before withdrawing his knife the surgeon should ascertain with the fore-finger of his left hand that there are no other tight structures requiring division; sometimes the sheath of the tendon is also contracted and requires to be nicked. The principal reason for dividing the tendo Achillis at the spot recommended, namely an inch above its insertion into the os calcis, is that division at a lower point is not always satisfactory, because a series of tendinous slips are often given off at about that spot, to be inserted into the upper part of the OS calcis, and should they escape division the proper relaxation of the tendon will not occur. When the tendon has been divided, the foot should be forcibly flexed two or three times, so as to stretch or tear through any other tight bands. It is very rarely that any accidents happen during the performance of this small operation. Sometimes, however, there is bleeding from divided veins, the one most likely to be damaged being the short saphena, but this soon stops with very slight pressure. The puncture of a large arterial trunk like the posterior tibial artery is a matter of extreme rarity, and we ourselves have never met with such an accident; should it occur, the best plan would probably be to enlarge the skin incision, cutting directly down to the artery and tying the divided ends, in preference to running the risk of the formation of a false aneurysm, which might occur, especially if the artery were only partially divided. Some surgeons, however, suggest that it is best in the first instance merely to apply firm pressure by means of a pad over the bleeding vessel, and then, should a false aneurysm form, to adopt the appropriate treatment for it later. At the same time one need not to be too ready to cut down, merely because arterial blood spouts from the wound; it may be from some much smaller vessel than the posterior tibial, and if this be completely divided, the application of a small pad and bandage will arrest the bleeding immediately. Should the wound in the skin be made too large from an accidental slip of the knife, its edges