66 CLUB-FOOT. astragalus by incisions similar to those just described for its complete resection, and then by means of a chisel or a gouge to chip off enough bone from its upper and anterior surfaces to enable the articular surface to pass easily beneath the malleolar arch, and then, after division of the tendo Achillis, to bring the foot into the rectangular position. This opera- tion, when it is feasible, is in some ways perhaps the best for adult cases, but in children excision of the astragalus, if carefully attended to afterwards, gives such perfect results that it is much the best procedure. If this method of removing a portion of the astragalus be adopted, particular care must be taken subsequently to preserve the movements of the ankle joint by frequent passive and active movements and massage. The movements should be begun within a day or two of the operation, and in the intervals between them the foot should be kept on a posterior splint with a hinged foot- piece which can be pushed up so as to over-correct the deformity. (7) Amputation.—Amputation is of course extremely rarely called for in these cases, but sometimes,—when the condition is due to infantile paralysis, when there is extreme wasting of the parts, when the nutrition of the foot is markedly interfered with, when the latter is constantly subject to ulcera- tion, and when in fact the foot would be useless even were it restored to its proper position,—Syme's or Pirogoff's operation (preferably Syme's) will yield a far more satisfactory result than any attempt to retain the foot and restore its functions by apparatus. (l>) In the second class of these severe cases of talipes equinus, those, namely, in which there is also marked talipes cavus and where the foot cannot be unfolded by the mere employment of tenotomy and splints, some more serious operation may be necessary. In these cases the patient is generally much crippled, and suffers great pain, when the weight is borne upon the sole, from stretching of the plantar fascia and the ligaments; at the same time callosities and corns form over the metatarsal bones, and cause the greatest suffering. Excision of a wedge from the tarsus.—Should tenotomy and wrenching fail to restore the proper shape of the foot, it may become necessary to remove a portion of the tarsus, in order to bring the sole of the foot flat upon the ground, and this should be done and the foot brought straight Fig. 31.—Boot for Use after Excision of Astragalus. This is merely a boot fitted with stout lateral leg-irons which are fastened into the heel below and furnished with an ordinary hinge- joint opposite the ankle. The chief object of the apparatus is to prevent inversion of the foot.