286 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. the limb ligature and removal of the veins is often of value after the ulcer has healed, as it tends to prevent recurrence (see Part I., Chap. III.). Excision of the inflamed veins during the acute stage is also indicated in phlebitis associated with varicose veins (see p. 281). Non-operative measures are indicated when the patient objects to an operation, when the varicosity is slight, is not extending, or is easily controlled by supporting bandages, or when the condition is extremely extensive and when the cutaneous veins are essentially the seat of the enlargement. Radical Treatment.—We shall discuss first the operative treatment of varicose veins, in which the object is to shut off the downward blood pressure as far as possible and to obliterate the main vessels affected. When the disease is not limited to the leg, but extends into the thigh and affects the internal saphenous vein up to the groin, radical measures are especially advisable, because in these cases the valves are incom- petent, and offer no support at all to the column of blood, and there is a tendency for the varicosity to extend to all the superficial veins of the limb. Under such circumstances the important point is first to block the internal saphena close to its junction with the femoral vein. At first sight this would seem likely to increase the varicosity by interfering with the return of the venous blood, but, as a matter of fact, the blood pressure from below is so slight, and there are so many communications with the deeper veins, that the application of the ligature does not do anything like the harm done by the weight of the column of blood after the valves have become incompetent. Some surgeons advocate the removal of a portion of the internal saphena high up in all cases of varicose veins of the leg, but that seems hardly necessary when the vein is not dilated in the thigh and the valves are still competent. But when the vein is affected in this situation it should certainly be obliterated as high up as possible. Some surgeons, in Germany especially, are content with the removal of the saphena at the groin, and leave the other enlarged veins untouched; it must, however, be borne in mind that the superficial and deep veins communicate at other points, especially behind and at the inner side of the knee, and in the upper part of the leg, and that therefore the downward pressure upon the veins of the leg is not entirely cut off by the obliteration of the saphena alone. It is a good rule, therefore, not only to excise a portion of the saphena as high up as possible, but also to look for and remove any masses of enlarged veins about the knee or popliteal space, and also any similar groups in the leg, more particularly when they are much dilated and threaten to burst through the skin ; any dilatations at the points of junction of a number of veins should also be taken away. Hence, in an ordinary case, besides the removal of the internal saphena, there may be five or six other places in which the veins should be excised. Excision of Veins.—As a preliminary to operation in all cases the veins