TUBERCULOSIS. irregular papillomatous elevations, and between the bases of the papillae fissures are very often found. As a rule they are indolent, the surrounding skin is normal, they are benign and slow in their course, and the glands do not usually enlarge. In some cases of lupus anatomicus, however, the course of events may be much more acute, and there may be enlargement of the glands, disease of subjacent joints, or even phthisis. Treatment.—This is practically the same as that of lupus, and where the disease is not too extensive the best plan is to completely excise the group of warts. TUBERCULOUS LUPUS.—This disease is characterized by the presence of nodules which, under the microscope, are found to consist of a collection of tubercles. These nodules tend to spread at the margin of the patch while healing often occurs at its centre. In some cases the epidermis remains unbroken, and the nodules present a yellowish translucent apple-jelly-like appearance, or the epidermis is slightly thickened and scaly, the nodules are dull, and there is a slight congestion of the skin around; in other cases there is ulceration. Lupus may be met with in any part of the body, but it is most frequent about the cheek, the nose, and the back of the hands. There are two great clinical groups of tuberculous lupus, termed lupus non-exedens and lupus exedens respectively. (a) Lupus non-exedens.—In this form of the affection the tubercles tend to dwindle after a time, leaving a soft violet-coloured cicatrix. The tubercles are often very small and form brown or apple-jelly-like nodules, usually with a considerable amount of inflammation around them. In other cases, however, the nodules may be much more numerous, and may run together and form patches with a prominent edge, while at the centre they disappear, so that there is a cicatricial centre surrounded by an elevated nodular mass. This condition is spoken of as hypertrophic lupus. ip) Lupus exedens.—Here the tubercles are soft and red and soon ulcerate, and thus give rise to large ulcers which fungate and are covered by granulations bathed in pus. The ulceration tends to heal, and when it does so the scar often causes very considerable contraction and deformity; in the cheek, for example, the scar pulls on the lower eyelid, causing great eversion or ectropion of the lower eyelid. This form of lupus is especially destructive; when it occurs on the nose it spreads first from the skin to the cartilage and destroys it, then it spreads on to the mucous membrane, and may thus completely destroy the soft parts of the nose, leaving, however, the bones intact. The course of the disease is, as a rule, exceedingly slow, and years may elapse before •any marked destruction is caused. Lupus exedens may, however, suddenly spread with great rapidity, and it is then termed "lupus vorax." This form may destroy the nose and a large portion of the face in a very few weeks; in reality a rapidly growing epithelioma has become grafted upon the lupus, and the case is really one of true epithelioma. Treatment.—It is necessary to consider the treatment of these