GENU VALGUM. "In cutting on these lines, there is no fear of injuring the femoral artery. The bone may be divided without paying heed to this order of procedure, but it is better that the operator should have a definite plan in his mind, so that he may be certain as to what has been divided, and what remains to be done. The writer is persuaded that accidents have happened by not paying attention to this. In using the osteotome, the left hand, in which it is grasped, ought to give, after each impulse supplied by the mallet, a slight movement to the blade—not transversely to its axis, but longitudinally—so as to prevent any disposition to fixity which it might assume. "After the inner portion of the bone is divided, a finer instrument may be slipped over the first, which is then withdrawn; and even a third, if necessary, may take the place of the second, when the outer portion of the bone comes to be divided. Whether one or more osteotomes be used, depends much on the resistance met with. If the tissue is yielding, one may suffice; if hard or brittle, two or three will effect the division more easily, and with less risk of breaking or splitting the bones longitudinally. In the adult, the dense circumferential layer of bone resists the entrance of the osteotome at the outset, but several strokes cause the instrument to penetrate this superficial dense portion, when it will pass easily through the cancellated tissue. "After a little experience, the surgeon recognises, by touch and sound, when the osteotome meets the hard layer on the outer aspect of the bone. If it be considered desirable to notch or penetrate this outer dense part of the bone, in doing so the osteotome ought to be grasped firmly by the left hand, the inner border of the hand resting on the limb, so as to check instantly any impetus which may be considered too great. It is better to snap or bend this layer than to cut it. " When the instrument is to be altered in position, it ought not to be pulled out in the ordinary way, as it is then liable to be removed from the wound in the soft parts, as well as from the bone. Instead, let the left hand, with its inner border resting on the limb, grasp the instrument, while the thumb is pressed under the ridge afforded by the rounded head, and gently lever the osteotome outwards by an extension movement of the thumb (see Fig. 50). In this way the movement may be regulated with precision. It is desirable to complete all the work intended by the osteotome before removing it from the wound. " When the operator thinks that the bone has been sufficiently divided, the osteotome is laid aside and a sponge saturated in 1-40 carbolized watery solution is placed over the wound. While the surgeon holds the sponge, he, at the same time, employs that hand as a fulcrum; with the other he grasps the limb lower down, using it as a lever, and jerks if the bone be hard, or bends slowly if the bone be soft, in an inward direction, when the bone will snap or bend as the case may be." An Esmarch's bandage is not necessary during the operation, and no