156 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. Hence excision should be employed as far as is consistent with the appearance of the part, and the surgeon should not refuse to excise a patch of lupus, because it is impossible to bring the edges of the skin together afterwards. Immediate skin-grafting produces an excellent result. The grafts usually adhere readily and completely, and as there has been no granulation before their application the subsequent contraction is very slight, and as time goes on they gradually assume the appearance of more or less normal skin. The method of applying these grafts has been described in Part I., p. 50. Grafts as large and as broad as possible should be employed, because, although the body of the graft itself very soon resembles normal skin, the lines along which the different grafts come into contact are very apt to remain raised for a considerable time, and to assume a sort of keloid condition, which may produce a very ugly deformity. The broader the graft, therefore, and the fewer the lines of junction, the better is the appearance of the scar. It is possible in this way to excise a patch covering the greater part of the cheek, and the small amount of subsequent contraction makes it all the more advisable to do this, in spite of the somewhat pale and scarred appearance which the cheek retains for some months after the operation. With any other method of treatment, the contraction that almost inevitably results if the wound be allowed to heal by itself, often leads to very grave deformity, especially when it pulls on the lower eyelid, and leads to ectropion. In other cases, however, where either the face is covered with lupus, and the surgeon is not prepared to remove the skin of the whole face, or where, for example, the nose is affected, excision is not advisable. In such cases, if the salicylic plasters be not employed, the best treatment is to scrape the lupus, and subsequently to cauterize the surface with nitric acid. In scraping lupus, the scabs should first be cleared off, and the parts disinfected as thoroughly as possible, and then, with a fairly large spoon, the whole surface of the lupus is carefully gone over, and all the soft tissue scraped away. The indication that the lupoid tissue has been entirely removed is that it is not possible to scrape away anything more. By means of a sharp spoon the dermis may be pared off to some extent, and it is also possible to scrape some of the fat away; but it does not come away in the same manner as the soft lupus tissue does. Hence the scraping is carried on until resistant tissues are met with, and until it is certain that no soft tissue remains. It is well to go over the part with a smaller spoon after- wards, such as is used for clearing out Meibomian cysts, for example, in case any small lupus nodules have escaped. Having in this way got rid of all the tubercular tissues, the bleeding is next arrested. This is best done by pressure and cold douching, the pressure being applied by sponges outside protective as has been described for arresting hsemorrhage in skin-grafting (see Part I., p. 51). When the bleeding has stopped, the whole of the raw surface should be thoroughly cauterized by means of a glass brush dipped in pure nitric acid.