INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. the constitutional disturbance is often severe, and patients are very liable to become a prey to one of the various septic diseases. Carbuncles occur most frequently in males over forty, and usually in parts where the skin is thick, as on the back. They are due to the same organism as boils, and often originate in connection with some local irritation, such as friction by the clothes, or want of cleanliness. In carbuncles the general condition plays a greater part in their production and course than in the case of boils, and they occur chiefly in cachectic or half-starved people, in drunkards, and notably in those suffering from diabetes. As regards the latter affection, it may be mentioned that during the course of a carbuncle sugar may appear in the urine, and may subsequently disappear when con- valescence takes place. It is important, therefore, not to mistake this temporary glycosuria for true diabetes. The carbuncle in the diabetic is most often situated on the back of the neck, and is a very grave disease, as the patient often dies from diabetic coma, and is also especially liable to septic infection elsewhere. This form of the disease is sometimes slow and insidious in the early stages, and there is not the violent swelling seen in the ordinary form, the pain and the fever being only moderate in degree. If the case be left to itself, and the patient live, it usually takes at least two months before the wound heals. The prognosis of a case of carbuncle depends on the size of the local affection, and the complications which co-exist with it. In large carbuncles the prognosis is, on the whole, exceedingly bad; from 8% to 30% of those attacked generally die. Treatment.—(a) General treatment.—This consists, in the first place, in the use of opiates. The object of their use is partly to enable the patient to obtain sleep, and partly also, where diabetes is present, to diminish the amount of sugar. In the latter case, codeine is better than opium, and it may be given in doses of a quarter to half a grain every four or six hours. In addition to opium or codeine, tonics should be administered, especially a large quantity of iron, either in the form of reduced iron in pills of about three grains, or the tincture of the perchloride of iron, in doses of fifteen to twenty-five drops, three or four times a day in half a tumbler of water. Every care must be taken to keep up the strength of the patient by the free admistration of liquid food;. from three to four pints of milk should be given daily (if sugar be absent from the urine), along with raw meat juice, Bovril, Carnrick's beef peptonoids, etc. When the patient is passing into a typhoid state, as is very often the case, the free use of stimulants is indicated. The greatest attention must be paid to the state of the urine, and, if sugar be present, not only should codeine be given, but the patient should be dieted as far as is consistent with keeping up the strength. Perhaps in the severe cases, when there is very great weakness, it will not be judicious to restrict the diet materially, but as far as possible the use of sugar and starchy substances should be limited, and, as time goes on and the patient improves,