138 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. methods are entirely useless, and the only chance of benefit lies in the performance of an open operation; considerable benefit at least will be obtained, if the extreme flexion and adduction of the limb which is often present can be overcome, and proper fixation of the head of the bone effected. The operation is done as follows. The patient is put under an anaesthetic, the limb is purified with the most scrupulous care, and any tight structures which resist the reposition of the head of the femur in the acetabulum are first of all divided subcutaneously; those generally requiring division are the adductors close to their origin, the fascia lata of the thigh, and sometimes the muscles attached to the anterior superior iliac spine, and even, in bad cases, the ham-string muscles at their origin from the tuber ischii. When these various structures have been divided, manipulations designed to stretch the parts and get the limb into proper position are vigorously carried out. An incision is next made, so as to freely expose the Fig. 65.—Incision for the Operative Treatment of Congenital Dislocation OF the Hip. The line n6 runs in the interval between the sartorius and the tensor vaginae femoris muscles, from which there is easy access to the hip-joint. The dotted line cd shows the second incision, if more room be required. joint and its capsule; this may be the ordinary anterior incision employed for excision of the hip, which runs downwards and slightly inwards from just beneath the anterior superior iliac spine over the interval between the sartorius and the tensor vagina femoris and to which may be added a horizontal one running outwards from about the centre of the first incision, so as to facilitate access to the deeper structures (see Fig. 65). This horizontal incision divides nothing of importance except the fascia lata and the tensor vaginae femoris. Some surgeons prefer a posterior incision, but the one described will usually give satisfactory access to the joint. The head and neck of the bone are exposed through the incision, the attachment of the capsule to the neck of the femur is divided, and all the tense parts of it are cut through. In bad cases the capsule may be so much shortened that it is necessary to strip off the periosteum around the trochanter, along with the muscles attached to it, in order to effect reduction of the dislocation. The femur is next rotated inwards, so that the head of the bone is turned well backwards out of the way, and the acetabulum is enlarged by scraping and cutting away the soft tissues and portions of the cartilage with a sharp spoon or a suitable gouge until an acetabulum of suitable size has been made; it is necessary not only to deepen the cavity, but to enlarge it sufficiently for the head of the bone to enter it easily, as