107 GENU VALGUM. the knee outwards; the best is an external splint furnished with a band around the knee so applied as to pull the latter outwards. The chief disadvantage of a splint of this kind is that the child generally manages to rotate the leg outwards, and thus the band which should bring the knee against the splint is rendered ineffectual. Directly any outward rotation occurs, the band ceases to act upon the deformity, and simply bends the knee. Care should therefore be taken to see that whatever splint be applied this rotation is impossible. In young children the modification of Thomas's splint just described answers very well, and its action may be still further increased by prolonging the lower end of the iron bar downwards for three to four ' inches beyond the foot so as to present an effectual bar to walking. Another splint which answers extremely well and which is more suitable perhaps for rather older children, is one in which there is an outside iron running from a pelvic band above to a slot in the heel of the boot below and which therefore prevents rotation. It, of course, necessi- tates the wearing of a boot both day and night, but this may be specially designed and is no great objection. When the outside iron is hinged to the heel and fastened in position by means of the pelvic band, the knee is drawn outwards against the splint by means of a broad elastic sling (see Fig. 48). Children are very often allowed to walk about wearing various forms of apparatus which allow the knee joint to be bent and which, at the same time, are supposed to pull the knee outwards, but these are usually extremely inefficient; they are much too heavy for the weakly children who have to carry them, they are very expensive and they do not exert much influence deformity. Indeed, considering the extremely satisfactory operative interference and the infinitesimal risks attaching to it much better to operate at once when it is essential for the child's comfort that he should walk about and when he cannot do so without an apparatus of this kind. The mechanical treatment of genu valgum, whether in the child or the adult, must be persisted in for a long time. It must not be given up until the active stage of rickets has entirely passed off and the softening Fig. 48.—Splint for use in Genu Valgum. As this necessitates the wearing of a boot, it is more suitable for older children. It is more powerful and effectually prevents either flexion of the knee or rotation of the limb. (Modified from Hoffa.) upon the results of it is very