296 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. FALSE ANEURYSM. CAUSES.—-A false or traumatic aneurysm may arise in one of two- ways; in the first there is a wound in the wall of an artery (it must be simply a hole and not complete division of the vessel), and the blood passing out through the aperture clots in the surrounding tissues and leads to condensation of the structures around; the result is that a sac is formed which prevents the further escape of blood into the planes of cellular tissue. The wall of this sac is composed of dense cellular tissue and organized blood-clot. In the second, the wound in the wall of the artery may heal and leave a cicatrix. Dilatation of this cicatrix then occurs, with secondary condensa- tion of the tissues around, and thus again a sac is formed, the wall of which is never composed of any portion of the original coat of the vessel. This mode of formation of a false aneurysm is, however, rare. A false aneurysm may also result from a subcutaneous rupture of an artery, provided that the rupture be small. Usually, however, in such cases the rupture is of considerable size, and blood is poured out into the tissues very rapidly and in large amount; indeed, the bleeding may go on to such an extent that the patient may die directly from haemorrhage into the cellular tissue, or, at a later date, from gangrene as the result of the pressure of the effused blood upon the collateral circulation. This con- dition has received the name of diffuse aneurysmal hsematoma. False aneurysm most frequently occurs when the wound in the artery is very small, and when the injured vessel is in the neighbourhood of structures that offer considerable resistance to the outflow of blood; it generally follows small punctured wounds of an artery. The blood which escapes clots in the tissues, and temporarily, at any rate, arrests the haemorr- hage ; if, however, the wounded vessel be of any size, the blood pressure prevents proper cicatrization and as the result of fresh blood escaping during the systole of the heart the original cavity is gradually dilated, while at the same time the surrounding tissues become inflamed and thickened, and form a mass of dense fibrous tissue which constitutes the wall of the sac. This false aneurysm has all the ordinary clinical features of the true variety, with the important difference that the walls of the artery are healthy quite up to the point of communication with the aneurysm. Its further history is practically the same as that of true aneurysm. It gradually increases in size, fresh tissue becomes inflamed and condensed around it, bones and other structures become absorbed as the result of the pressure and inflammation it causes, until finally the aneurysm reaches the skin or some internal cavity, when the wall gives way and fatal haemorrhage results. Formerly, when venesection was much practised, false aneurysm was common, and it usually occurred in connection with the brachial artery