CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. lOO sary to divide the fibula as well as the tibia. This is a matter of great simplicity; the bone can be exposed at the requisite spot by a suitable small incision over its outer side, and nipped across by a pair of cutting pliers after the periosteum has been separated by a rugine. This is generally all that is necessary. Removal of portions of the fibula is rarely called for except in some few cases when the curve is very extreme and the bones will not come straight until the ends of the fibula overlap one another; enough must then be removed to bring the ends into contact without overlapping. The main factor determining the choice between a Hnear osteotomy and the removal of a wedge from the tibia is to a great extent the amount A B Fig. 45.—Vakious Forms of Osteotomy of the Tibia. A. Simple Transverse Linear Osteotomv. The thick lines show the original position of the bone .^nd the line of bone section. The dotted ones show the position of the fragments when the bone is straightened. It will be seen that a large gap, which may lead to non-union is left when the curve is marked. B. Cuneiform Osteotomy. It will be seen from the figure how the triangular gap is converted into a linear division when the bone is straightened. C. Obliqlie Osteotomy. The first figure shows the oblique method applied to a lateral bending of the bone—in this case a curvature outwards—while the second shows it applied to an antero-posterior curve, the upper border of the figure being the crest of the tibia. The figures also show the method of rotation after the section has been made. of curvature present. When this is not very marked, a linear osteotomy will meet all the requirements of the case; when the curvature is extreme, and more especially when it is so acute as to form almost an angle, it is advisable to remove a wedge. This is particularly the case with the antero-posterior curve at the lower end of the bone, to which we have referred, and in which mere transverse division of the tibia will not allow the deformity to be rectified; the only procedure which makes this feasible is the removal of a wedge with the base directed forwards. In the ordinary bow-legged deformity the base of the wedge removed should of course look outwards. Cuneiform osteotomy of the tibia.—The operation is a simple one, and is performed by making an incision down to the bone along the crest of the tibia over the point of greatest curvature for a distance that will