l6l SEBACEOUS CYSTS. solution ; this is rubbed in until the hair is thoroughly impregnated with it. A narrow-bladed knife is then inserted through the skin on one side of the cyst and pushed right through its centre until the point emerges at the corresponding spot on the opposite side, when the surgeon cuts upwards, dividing everything and bringing the knife right out (see Fig. 67). In this manner the upper half of the sebaceous cyst is cut through, and on pushing aside the skin the divided wall can be readily seen after its contents have been squeezed out. By catching hold of this wall and gently pulling upon it, it is generally easy to enucleate the whole cyst. The only difificulty in the scalp is when inflammation has occurred and the cyst is adherent to the skin; if this be the case it is necessary to cut away the adherent Fig. 67.—Methods of removal of Sebaceous Cysts. In A and B are shown the stages of the removal when the cyst wall is thick and firm, e.g. on the scalp. The cyst is first cut across by transfixion, and its contents squeezed out; then, as shown in B, the wall is laid hold of by catch-forceps and traction exerted. The wall pulls out and only a mere touch of the knife is required. In C the cyst is dissected down upon from outside, a portion of the thinned skin being included in the elliptical incision; this method is most suited to the thin-walled cysts on the face. portion of the skin as well as the cyst. It is not uncommon to get con- siderable inflammation in sebaceous cysts of the scalp owing to the friction of the hat or to other forms of irritation. After the bleeding has been stopped, the wound is stitched up, gauze dressings, so arranged as to form a pad which presses the superficial and deeper parts together applied, and a mass of salicylic wool and a firm bandage put on over them. These should be removed in about three days, the stitches taken out, and the surface of the wound and the hair around covered with fresh cyanide paste. No other dressing is necessary, and the hair can be combed over the wound and the patient allowed to go about without anything being noticeable. Sebaceous cysts of the Face.—In the case of sebaceous cysts on the face and other parts where the skin is thin, it is better to proceed differently, dissecting down upon the tumour from without inwards, and enclosing in the incision an oval piece of skin corresponding to the thinnest part. If this be not done, too much skin will be left, and the portion that is dissected off may lose its vitality; besides this, to dissect off the skin from the top of the sebaceous cyst is a very difficult matter. After making this oval incision, it is generally easy to shell the tumour out of its PT. II. L