200 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. by this means the divided ends of the muscle may be approximated (see Fig. 72). Before the stitches are tied the muscle should be fully relaxed by placing the Hmb in a position of flexion or extension according to the muscle affected; more than one suture may be required, the number being regulated by the breadth of the particular muscle. When these fixation stitches have been tied, the approximated muscular edges may be united by means of a continuous catgut suture, the button-hole stitch (see Part I., p. 158) being the best. For suturing muscles catgut is on the Fig. 72.—Method of Suturing a Divided Muscle. The method of introducing and tying the sutures is shown diagrammatically. The smaller figure shows the detail of the individual sutures. In the larger one four such stitches have been inserted and are ready for tying. When they have been tied and the cut edges of the muscle thus approximated, a continuous buttonhole suture is put in along the line of junction. whole the best material; silk may be used, but in accidental wounds of muscles it is impossible to be certain of securing asepsis, and should the wound be septic, the silk will almost certainly work its way out, and a sinus will remain for a considerable time. After the muscle has been sutured, a drainage tube should be inserted and the skin wound stitched up. The limb should be placed upon a splint in the position that ensures the greatest relaxation of the muscle. After-treatment.—The further treatment of the wound will follow the lines already laid down for accidental incised wounds (see Part I., p. 184). The position of full muscular relaxation should be kept up for about a couple of days, and then, day by day, the limb may be sHghtly extended or flexed as the case may be, until, in the course of two to three weeks, the muscle is put fully upon the stretch. It is important not to keep the muscle too long in the fully relaxed position because a certain amount of adhesion is likely to form between the line of suture and the tissues around, and this should, as far as possible, be made to occur in the position in which the muscle is fully extended; the muscular