THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 65 above the tip of the external malleolus, and carried downwards and forwards parallel with the inner incision to a point opposite the termination Of the latter (see Fig. 30). The structures over the front of the ankle joint are raised by a periosteum detacher, and a copper spatula is passed in beneath the bridge of soft tissues thus raised, which contains all the tendons, vessels, nerves, etc. These are then pulled well forwards and protected by the spatula against any chance of injury. The lateral and anterior ligaments of the ankle joint are now easily divided and the astragalo-scaphoid articulation is opened. The strong calcaneo-astragaloid ligament is next divided, and then the astragalus can generally be seized by strong forceps and gradually pulled forwards and outwards or inwards and any resisting structures divided. At the posterior part of the bone the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis must be carefully separated from its groove by a periosteum detacher. After the astragalus has been removed, the bleeding is arrested, the wound stitched up, and the foot put up at a right angle upon a suitable splint. It is only in the most extreme cases that it becomes necessary to divide the tendo Achillis at the same time; if necessary, this, of course, must be done. In putting up the foot special Fig. 30.—Excision of Astragalus. A shows the incision on the inner, B on the outer side of the front of the ankle. care must be taken to prevent inversion, and the best arrangement is Croft's plaster of Paris splint, which will be fully described in Part III. in dealing with fractures. Other useful splints are lateral poroplastic ones moulded to the foot while it is held at right angles to the leg in its proper position. The chief point to remember in the after-treatment of excision of the astragalus is that there is a tendency to inversion of the foot, and this must be carefully and persistently guarded against. The splint should be kept on for about six weeks, at the end of which time the patient, furnished with a suitable apparatus, may be allowed to walk. This apparatus should consist of a boot to which are attached lateral irons fastened to a band around the upper part of the leg and furnished with hinges opposite the ankle joint (see Fig. 31). The boot should be worn for eight months or a year, when it will generally be found that the foot has accommodated itself to its new position. {ji) Partial resection of the Astragalus.—In some cases, where the deformity is not so great, it may suffice to expose the front of the PT. II. E