232 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. divided ends is bridged by a number of catgut strands; while this is being done, the parts are relaxed and the wound is then closed. The result is that lymph and blood are poured out amongst the catgut threads, the lymph and the catgut itself become organized, and in some cases a fairly satisfactory tendon has resulted. In these cases, as in the others, it is well to gradually reduce the flexion of the limb, and after two or three weeks active and passive move- ments may be commenced. There is no likelihood of the stitches cutting through at all quickly. Possibly the small tag of tendon on either side will ultimately die, but the separation of the piece, if it occur at all, is a matter of a very long time, provided that the wound be aseptic. {c) Transplantatio7t.—Again, transplantation of tendons has been attempted. A piece is completely split off from a neighbouring tendon and stitched to each end of the one divided ; or the tendon of one of the lower animals may be employed in a similar manner. In tendons, however, the blood vessels are too few for the new piece to become quickly vascularized in the same manner as a skin-graft, and thus the plan really acts in very much the same way as the strands of catgut just described. It is hardly likely that the detached portion of tendon will retain its vitality; it probably only serves as a guide for the new tissue and as pabulum for the cells to eat away. Further, on account of its thickness and size, it is less likely to be quickly eaten up and replaced than is catgut, and it is therefore very apt to act as a foreign body. Where transplantation is employed, lateral stitches holding the two ends of the original tendon in position, and also giving support when the period of passive motion arrives, must, of course, be inserted. {d) Implantation.—When it is impossible to reconstruct the tendon by one of these methods, a certain amount of restoration of function may sometimes be obtained by attaching the distal end of the divided tendon to a neighbouring sound one. For example, when one of the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum has been divided and a considerable portion of it has been lost by sloughing or otherwise, the remaining portion of its lower end should be defined and refreshed; the side of the neighbouring uninjured tendon of the same muscle should then be made raw, and the two tendons are united laterally by fine catgut stitches (see Fig. 83). Another way of carrying out the same procedure is to split the healthy tendon, and, after paring the distal end of the divided one, to insert the latter between the two halves of the split tendon and stitch it in place (see Fig. 84); this is a rather more certain method than the pre- ceding one. The fingers must of course be fully flexed so as to relax all tension during union. If successful, the result of the operation is that when the muscle contracts it pulls not only on the uninjured tendons, but also on the newly attached one, and as the function of all four tendons is the same, a uniform flexion of all the fingers is obtained; the power of flexing the affected finger independently of the others is, however, of course lost.