SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 146 If the boil is not going to abort, and is extending, as will become evident about the fourth or fifth day, and if it is causing much pain, the use of antiseptic compresses (such as boracic lint dipped in hot boracic lotion, and covered by a large piece of guttapercha tissue) applied warm and frequently changed, often gives great relief; but if the pain continues, and is very severe, early crucial incisions^ dividing the brawny tissues completely across, will give more relief than any other plan. It must not be supposed, however, that much quicker healing will be obtained by early incision, unless means be taken to get rid of the slough at the same time. Whether incisions be made or not, the slough will not separate and be cast off before about the eighth day, but the advantage of the incision is that it ensures relief of the pain and a diminution of the inflammatory trouble. When a boil is bad enough to call for incision, the best plan, if the slough be at all loose, is to scrape it out by means of a sharp spoon, and then to apply a little undiluted carbolic acid to the cavity left. After-treatment.—If the slough be got away completely, the best dress- ings afterwards are antiseptic ointments, such as the eucalyptus, or strong boracic ointment, changed twice a day, the wound and the parts around being thoroughly washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution each time the dressing is renewed. If portions of the slough still remain adherent, boracic fomentations should be employed till they have entirely separated. At the same time, the methods already spoken of under prophylaxis should be employed for the skin round about, so as to prevent the appear- ance of fresh crops of boils. The general treatment must also be attended to. The urifte must be tested for sugar or albumen, and, if either be present, suitable constitutional treatment must be adopted. The bowels should be kept freely open by one of the usual saline aperients, such as Hunyadi or Friedrichshall water or a seidlitz powder, and iron should be given frequently. The tincture of perchloride of iron in doses of 15 to 25 minims in a considerable quantity of water every six hours, or Blaud's iron in lo-grain capsules three or four times a day, are the best forms in which to administer it. A CARBUNCLE is a gangrenous inflammation of the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues affecting a considerable area, and is essentially a number of boils aggregated together. In the initial stage there is a large brawny rusty-coloured swelling in the skin, looking just like an exceedingly large boil, but on the third or fourth day small pustules begin to appear in numerous places on the surface of the carbuncle, and in two or three days more the pustules burst and leave openings exuding pus; at the bottom of each of these a white slough is seen. If the case be left to itself and the patient survive, the skin between these various openings sloughs to a greater or less extent, and a sufficiently large aperture is obtained to allow of the escape of the deeper-seated slough. During this process, however,