222 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. This is usually comparatively easily done; the chief essential for success is to isolate the whole of the affected area from the healthy tissues before opening and clipping the sheath away. By means of a blunt periosteum detacher or a gland separator (see Fig. 77), the tendon sheath is easily isolated, and the deeper part especially so freed that it can be lifted up from the subjacent tissues. The tendon sheath is then divided by two circular incisions, one well above and the other well below the limits of the disease, and the affected portion is incised vertically from one circular incision to the other; this lays the sheath fully open, and the whole of the dis- eased portion of the sheath can then be removed in one piece (see Fig. 78). After removal of the sheath the tendon should be ex- amined to see whether it be affected, and if any soft points be found, they should be thoroughly scraped out. The skin flap is then laid down and stitched in place, and, if the operation has been done antiseptically, the wound heals by first intention, and the result is remarkably satisfactory. After-treatment.—After the opera- tion the hand is placed on a splint with the fingers somewhat flexed and kept at rest until the wound has healed. The first dressings may generally be removed and the stitches taken out in ten days, when a collodion dressing is fixed on, the splint left off, and the patient encouraged to practise active movements; passive motion is employed once or twice a week for several weeks. We have had the opportunity of treating several cases of this kind, and have been very much surprised at the ease with which movement is regained. There is not nearly the same difificulty in obtaining free move- ment, nor is there the same tendency to adhesion to surrounding parts as there is in cases where the tendon sheath is intact, and where the surgeon has to do with plastic teno-synovitis; indeed the difference is so great that it has occurred to us that in cases of plastic teno-synovitis limited to a few tendons removal of the sheath might also be the best practice. The tendon moves freely in the cellular tissue, and very soon a sort of sheath is re-formed around it. If recurrence of the tuberculous affection take place, the operation should be repeated; as a rule the recurrence is Fig. 78.—Method of Excision of a Tendon Shkath. To illustrate the description of the operation in the text. A flap is thrown back, and after the sheath has been isolated from the surrounding structures, it is divided circularly well beyond the limits of the disease. A longitudinal incision joining the two circular ones then allows the whole of the affected portion to be re- moved as a flat ribbon-like mass.