SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 152 due to external inoculation. The tuberculous ulcers are often multiple, and form sores of various sizes with sharply cut and undermined edges. The base is usually not indurated, the granulations are greyish and imperfect, and a sort of sero-pus, which has a great tendency to form crusts, is secreted from the surface. As a rule the ulcers are not painful, except when they are situated on the lip, or about the anus, etc., when they may cause very considerable pain. Treatment.—Excision.—Tuberculous ulcerations of course require local treatment; the best is wherever it be possible to excise the sore as soon as its tuberculous nature is determined. The wound left is generally quite small, and it will be found feasible, by a little undermining of the skin in the vicinity, to bring the edges together, or, if this be impossible, skin-grafting may be employed. Excision is the best of all methods of treatment for local tuberculosis; it should of course be done with full antiseptic precautions. Scraping and cauterization.—Where excision is not feasible, scraping and thorough cauterization of the raw surface with nitric acid (see Part I., p. 80), is indicated. In tuberculous ulcerations of mucous membranes, excision is seldom practicable, and here it will be necessary to be content either with scraping the ulcer, with the application of various substances to its surface, or with a combination of the two methods. Perhaps the most useful application is a 1% solution of chromic acid in water, brushed over the part daily or every other day, and at less frequent intervals later if there be delay in the healing. A single application of pure chromic acid melted on a probe may also be used. Pure lactic acid is also much used in ulceration about the throat and larynx. For relief of pain, dusting with orthoform powder two or three times a week is the best treatment. Division of undermined edges.—When the skin or mucous membrane is undermined, and the patient will not agree either to excision or scraping, the thin undermined edges must be divided; they are stretched and thin and will never develop into healthy tissue. They need not necessarily be cut away, but several incisions should be made through them radiating from the centre of the ulcer well into the healthy skin beyond. As a result of this, the skin between the incisions contracts, and a number of tags are left which will readily adhere and form new centres for epithelial growth. As a rule, however, if a presentable scar be desired, it is better to clip away all these tags at their junction with the sound skin. This can be done under cocaine or after freezing. The treatment of tuberculous ulcers of the skin, secondary to tuberculous abscesses, depends of course on the treatment of these abscesses, and will be referred to in speaking of tuberculous sinuses in connection with joints, etc. TUBERCULOUS WARTS or LUPUS ANATOMICUS have been already referred to in Part I., p. 192. They occur in post- mortem porters, or those who do much post-mortem work. They form