no GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. surgeons prefer to divide the bone partly across from the outer side, and then to convert this incision into an open angle by producing a green-stick fracture on the inner side; this is certainly the easier operation, and the one that gives the better rectification at the time. In order to perform Macewen's operation, the patient, after he has been fully anaesthetised, should lie upon the back, with the limb abducted and rotated outwards, and supported on a firm sandbag of suitable size. The hip and knee joint should both be flexed. The following is a description of the operation in Macewen's own words : " A sharp-pointed scalpel is introduced on the inside of the thigh at the point where the two following lines meet, one drawn transversely a finger's breadth above the superior tip of the external condyle, and a longitudinal one drawn half an inch in front of the adductor magnus tendon. The scalpel here penetrates at once to the bone, and a longitudinal incision A B CD Fig. 49.—Various Forms of Osteotomy for Genu Valgum. A. Macewen's operation. B. A similar operation, the section being made from the outer side instead of the inner. C. Division of the tibia below its upper epiphysis; this may either be linear or cuneiform. D. Division of both femur and tibia. (Modified from//o^.) is made, sufficient to admit the largest osteotome and the finger should the surgeon deem it necessary. Before withdrawing the scalpel, the largest osteotome is slipped by its side until it reaches the bone. "The scalpel is withdrawn, and the osteotome, which was introduced longitudinally, is now turned transversely in the direction required for the osseous incision. In turning the osteotome, too much pressure must not be exerted, lest the periosteum be scraped off. It is then convenient to pass the edge of the osteotome over the bone until it reaches the posterior internal border, when the entire cutting edge of the osteotome is applied, and the instrument is made to penetrate from behind forwards, and towards the outer side. " After completing the incision in that direction, the osteotome is made to traverse the inner side of the bone, cutting it as it proceeds, until it has divided the uppermost portion of the internal border, when it is directed from before backwards, towards the outer posterior angle of the femur.