251 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. Recent Cases.—When the nerve has been divided completely, steps should be taken to bring the divided ends together and secure them in position with as little delay as possible. Hence, in any wound where there is loss of nerve function, no time should be lost, after rendering the wound aseptic, in searching for the divided ends of the injured nerve. More than this, care must always be taken, in cases of wounds in the neigh- bourhood of important nerve trunks, to see whether the functions of those nerves are intact; should one be found to be divided, nerve-suture may be done immediately after the accident, and simultaneously with the treatment of the original wound. The operation is then much easier and much more likely to be successful than if it were delayed until the wound has healed and extensive changes have taken place in the nerve. Primary nerve-suhire.—When the divided ends of the nerve have been exposed in the wound they should be carefully examined to see whether the cut surfaces are cleanly cut or are torn; in the latter case it will be necessary to shave off a small portion of the ends on either side with a very sharp knife so as to have them quite smooth and sharply cut where they oppose one another. The best material for the approximation of the divided ends is the finest chromic catgut, and an ordinary round sewing needle should be employed for introducing the sutures instead of the usual triangular surgical needle, the sharp edges of which are very apt to divide the nerve fibrils. If the divided ends cannot be easily brought together, as may be the case when a portion of the nerve has to be removed, the limb should be so bent as to bring the cut surfaces into accurate contact without any tension upon the stitches. The next step is to insert the sutures, which is done as follows. The needle, threaded with the finest catgut, is passed from before back- wards through the whole thickness of the proximal portion of the nerve about its centre, and at least a quarter of an inch from the cut surface; it is then passed through the distal portion from behind forwards in a similar manner. Great care must be taken that this stitch be not tied too tightly, as it may cut its way through the nerve, or may compress its fibres unduly; it should be tied so that, while the cut ends lie in accurate contact, there is no tension at all upon it. When this supporting stitch has been secured, three or four fine interrupted catgut stitches, merely traversing its sheath, are introduced around the periphery of the nerve so as to prevent lateral displacement of the cut ends. The divided ends can thus be kept in close and accurate contact (see Fig. 89). A Fig. 89.—Nerve-Suture. In A is shown tne method of inserting the central lix.ition suture which tr.-iverses the fniire thickness of tlie nerve. In B the ends of the nerve are brought together by tying this suture, and, in addition, the liner coaptation sutures, which only pass through the nerve slicath, are inserted.