TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 239 therefore, to consider what may be done to reUeve the patient when the dislocation has remained unreduced for some time. This condition causes considerable disability as there is pain on walking, and the patient is unable to evert the foot properly; in some cases he is completely crippled. It will be found that, when the tendon has been dislocated for some weeks, it is extremely difficult both to return it to the groove, and to keep it in position afterwards. The groove becomes filled up with new tissue, remains of the sheath, etc., and, therefore, even when the tendon is got into position, there is a constant tendency for it to slip out at once, because there is no proper groove for it to lie in. When, therefore, it is possible to get the tendon into position, it will be necessary to deepen the groove in the external malleolus in order to keep it there. This is done as follows. After making the curved incision above mentioned, the soft tissue which fills up the groove is first dissected away, and then, by means of a fine gouge and hammer, a channel may be gradually hollowed out of the bone corresponding in width to the original groove, but of sufficient depth to make it difficult for the tendon to slip out when it has once been replaced. The tendon is then replaced, any soft fascial tissue present stitched over it to form a sheath, the incision closed, and the foot put up flexed and inverted as in the previous case. Passive motion should be begun quite early, as otherwise the tendon is likely to become adherent to the bone; certainly not more than a week should be allowed to elapse before active and passive motions are commenced, and they should be carried out daily for about three or four weeks after the operation, the splint being continued in the intervals. At the end of that time the splint can, as a rule, be left off, and the patient encouraged to move the foot often and to walk about a little, the foot being kept carefully inverted while he does so. Passive motion is required for about eight weeks after the operation, and the case may then be left to nature. When a lofiger period has elapsed since the injury it may be impossible to replace the tendon in the groove on account of the retraction of the belly of the muscle. In such cases the following procedure has been adopted successfully. The groove in the bone is in the first place thoroughly cleared, and then deepened in the manner just described. The tendon is divided very obliquely, and the two ends are brought over into the groove prepared for them and stitched together. If the incision in the tendon be made sufficiently oblique the two parts do not become actually separated as they lie in the groove but slightly overlap one another. The portions which overlap are then stitched together laterally by fine catgut stitches (see Fig. 87). This lengthening of the tendon may also be carried out in another manner. The tendon is split vertically in the middle line for a distance rather more than half an inch longer than the interval required. At each end of the vertical incision a transverse cut, in opposite directions at the two ends (see Fig. 88), is made dividing half the tendon across. This gives a ~|_-shaped incision through the tendon, the two ends of which are