SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. 202 it become more pronounced when the muscle is voluntarily thrown into contraction. Treatment.—(i) Recent Cases.—In these cases we may either operate with the object of stitching the torn fibres together, or else attempt to get healing without an operation. The decision depends upon whether the rupture is complete or incomplete, whether the muscle is healthy or diseased, and also whether the ruptured muscle is an important one. When a large portion or the whole of an important and healthy muscle is torn through, and there is no contra-indication, the best treatment is immediate operation. It must, however, be borne in mind that this should only be done by those who are quite sure of the asepsis of their wounds. If an operation of this kind be performed, and the wound become septic, very disastrous suppuration may occur; this may lead, not only to a permanent impairment of the usefulness of the limb from adhesions be- tween neighbouring muscles of far greater severity than would have been the case had it been treated without operation, but even to actual loss of life. If, however, the surgeon has confidence in his asepsis, he is doing the best thing for his patient by suturing the muscle at once, and he will get a far better result by this means than by attempting to treat the case by position and relaxation of the muscle. (a) Operative.—The operation should be performed as follows. After the skin has been thoroughly shaved and disinfected, a curved incision, with its convexity upwards, is made across the limb at the seat of rupture, and the flap thus marked out containing skin and fascia is turned down. The convexity of the incision should run well above the actual seat of rupture; its upper limit should be on the proximal end of the divided muscle, while the lower limits of the incision will be on either side of the distal end. By this means the torn ends are completely exposed. This curved incision is much better than a vertical or transverse one, not only because it gives a better access to the parts, but also because the line of union in the muscle nowhere corresponds to the scar in the skin, and therefore adhesions between the scar and the rent in the muscle cannot occur. As soon as the deep fascia is divided, the mass of blood lying between the divided ends of the muscle comes into view. This should be thoroughly cleared out, all adherent clots carefully sponged away, and then the ends of the muscle are united together by means of the stitch just described (see Fig. 72), as many stitches being inserted as are rendered necessary by the size of the muscle. In these cases silk is better than catgut for the deep sutures, for here, of course, the wound is through unbroken skin, and is not expected to become septic; the silk will retain its hold better and longer than catgut, and thus the patient may be allowed to move the limb rather sooner than if catgut were used. The union is completed by a fine continuous catgut suture. Afier-ireaimeftt.—The limb should be put on a splint, with the muscle completely relaxed. In the course of two or three days the latter is gradually