64 CLUB-FOOT. that the sole is sufficiently stretched (this is usually in from a month to six weeks after the treatment has been begun), the tendo Achillis may be divided in the ordinary manner, and the subsequent treatment carried out as already described in speaking of the first stage of the affection (see p. 59). (3) In the most severe group of talipes equinus two conditions are met with; either simple talipes equinus, in which the heel is drawn up and the sole of the foot is fairly straight, or very marked equinus combined with a certain amount of talipes cavus. We shall take the consideration of the former group first. (a) It is well to commence the treatment with a free division of the plantar fascia, even although it may not be markedly contracted. In these bad cases simple division of the tendo Achillis is not sufficient to allow the foot to be brought into its proper position. This is due partly to contraction of the ligaments about the ankle joint, but mainly to the alterations which have occurred in the anterior part of the upper articular surface of the astragalus. In most cases the surgeon has to make a choice of some severe operative procedure, but, if the patient be young, a few weeks may with advantage be devoted to ascertaining whether, after a preliminary division of the plantar fascia, with a subsequent tenotomy of the tendo Achillis and the posterior ligaments of the ankle joint, continuous upward pressure upon the front of the foot by means of a splint will not lead to a cure of the deformity. If, however, it be found after a fair trial of these means (which are those described for the treatment of the second group of cases) that the deformity is not overcome, further procedures, directed more especially to the change in the shape of the astragalus, must be had recourse to. The operations at our disposal are excision of the astragalus, removal of a portion of the upper surface of that bone, excision of the ankle joint, or finally, amputation. (a) Excision of the Astragalus.—In ordinary cases, where the circulation and nutrition of the parts are good, excision of the astragalus yields an excellent result, and is probably the best of the procedures above mentioned. The foot left after this operation is a very useful one, and the ankle joint is freely movable; the os calcis rises to some extent between the malleoli, and, if the operation be performed in young subjects, it is almost impossible to tell, when they reach adult life, that anything has been done. The operation for excision of the astragalus will be fully described in Part III. in speaking of excisions; we may here, however, say that many lines of incision are used for the purpose. We prefer two vertical incisions, one on either side of the front of the ankle joint; that on the inner side commences about two inches above the internal malleolus, over the anterior border of the tibia, and runs downwards over the ankle to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid. This incision is carried directly down to the bone, care being taken to avoid dividing the tibialis anticus tendon, which is easily seen and hooked out of the way. The second incision is very similar and is made on the outer side, commencing about two inches