SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. 170 portions are apt to be left behind. In order to make sure of a successful result, the following simple operation is the best. The patient being under an anaesthetic, a lateral flap (see Fig. 68) is cut at the side of the toe by entering the knife vertically at the base of the nail just outside the ulcerated area. The point of the knife as it comes against the ungual phalanx is carried around it, immediately outside the bone and in contact with it, and, finally, the point may be protruded on the plantar surface of the toe Fig. 68.—Operation for Ingrowing Toe-Nail. In A is shown the method of cutting the lateral flap. In B the flap has been cut, the portion of the nail removed and the matrix beneath cut away. In C is shown the second method of performing the operation without forming a flap; a deep wedge-shaped gap is produced. D shows the final result in both cases, when the parts are brought together. at the point opposite to the one at which it was entered. A lateral flap is then made by carrying the knife straight forward and bringing it it out beyond the nail. It is not always necessary to make a wound on the plantar surface. If the cut be carried well downwards in front the flap can generally be turned aside without making any incision on the under surface of the toe. The nail is now split down by scissors from the free edge to the base a little to the outer side of the centre, and the portion on the affected side is pulled away by forceps. The matrix beneath the portion thus removed is then completely dissected away. Care must be taken to remove it right back to its extreme limit, for it must be remembered that the matrix extends backwards beneath the skin for about a quarter of an inch; if any portion be left behind it will give rise to fresh growth of nail. When this has been done, there is a flap at the side of the toe and a raw surface corresponding to what was previously the outer portion of the nail. The flap is then made to cover this raw surface, and is fixed in position by two or three stitches. The result of this operation is that no nail grows on the side operated upon, and, as the edge of the remaining portion of the nail is on a higher level than the skin, the soft parts cannot be pressed up against it, and no recurrence can therefore take place, even though tight boots be worn, or even though the affected toe be on the top of the one next to it. The wound usually heals by first intention, and after a fortnight no further dressings are necessary, and the patient may be allowed to walk about. The disinfection of the toe before operation must be carried out with the