TRUE ANEURYSM. In all cases of traumatic aneurysm where the affection is situated in the extremities, and where the circulation can be controlled by an Esmarch's bandage, it is by far the most satisfactory procedure. Even for a traumatic aneurysm of vessels which cannot be controlled satisfactorily by an Esmarch's bandage, the operation should be performed wherever it is possible to ligature the vessel upon the proximal side before the sac is opened, as by this means the risk of haemorrhage on opening the sac is largely avoided. In order to perform the operation, an incision extending for some distance above and below the sac is made over the aneurysm, the sac wall is exposed at the upper part, the artery is defined as near to the aneurysm as possible and a ligature applied. The sac may then be laid freely open and the clots turned out. If any blood escapes it will come from the lower end or from some branch opening into the sac, and should this happen, the finger should be placed over the aperture from which it comes, whilst the lower end of the vessel or any of the branches emerging from the sac are sought for and tied. Should there be any difificulty in defining the artery below the sac, valuable aid may be gained by passing a sound or bougie into its orifice through the sac. When the bleeding has been arrested the sac should be dissected out as completely as possible; should, however, any portion of the latter be adherent to the main vein or to important nerves in the neighbourhood, it should be left behind. A wound is thus left which will heal by first intention, the aneurysm is entirely got rid of, and the pressure it exerted on the collateral circulation (which sometimes increases con- siderably as consolidation occurs) is entirely done away with. It is well in all these cases to insert a drainage tube (about No. 14) into the wound ; this may be removed in about four or five days. After-treatmetit.—After all operations for ligature of arteries in the extremities every precaution should be taken to diminish the risk of gan- grene. The whole limb should be thoroughly disinfected by scrubbing with strong mixture (see Part I., p. 161), wrapped up in a thick mass of salicylic wool and kept slightly elevated on a pillow, especial care being taken to avoid pressure over any bony points, notably the heel. The nurse in charge of the case should be specially warned against applying hot bottles to the feet. When the old operation has been performed the patient may be allowed to get up in about three weeks. When however the Hunterian ligature has been employed, as for example in popliteal aneurysm, it is well to- keep the patient in bed for six weeks or two months. (2) Compression.—The artery may be compressed either by the fingers or by special instruments. This method of treatment is now rarely resorted to, but at one time it was much in favour, because in it all risks of secondary haemorrhage, pyaemia, etc., were avoided. The method consists in applying pressure to the artery, if possible upon the proximal side of the aneurysm and at some distance from it, and maintaining that pressure either continuously or intermittently for from 24 to 36 hours or even