158 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN, cystic tumours, without opening them; if fresh ones form they should also be excised. These nodules are very chronic in their course as a rule, and incision and scraping are not nearly so rapid or certain in their results as excision. ELEPHANTIASIS. DEFINITION.—Elephantiasis is an affection characterized by an en- largement of parts due to inflammatory oedema, especially connected with the lymphatic vessels. It differs from the common oedema, in which a simple serous fluid is poured out into the tissues, because in elephantiasis, the fluid is fibrinous and coagulable. In addition to the distention of the tissues with this fluid, there is hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and not uncommonly of the other structures of the limb as well. CAUSES.—Elephantiasis, as a rule, is due to some form of lymphatic obstruction. For example, tuberculosis of the lymphatic vessels and glands will sometimes bring about the condition. It seems probable that the con- dition is not due merely to lymphatic obstruction, but that a local inflam- matory state of the tissues must also co-exist. The most usual cause of the endemic form of elephantiasis, or, as it is called, "elephantiasis arabum," is the filaria sanguinis hominis. Here the parent filarise are deposited in some large lymphatic, vessel, and lead to its permanent blockage, and there results from this a varicosity of the lymphatics below, and subsequent elephantiasis of the part. The parts usually thus affected are the legs and the external genitals in both sexes. COURSE.—The endemic form is generally characterized by an acute onset, which often takes place after fatigue or injury, with the occurrence of lymphangitis, a certain amount of fever, headache, vomiting, redness and swelling of the parts, etc. This subsides, and after an interval further attacks may occur, and so it goes on until the condition of elephantiasis is established. In the leg, the condition is generally unilateral, and the foot is usually most markedly affected, but it may reach up the limb as far as the groin. It does not cause much inconvenience, except from the weight of the enlarged part, which, however, may in time reach an enormous size. In the external genitals, the parts chiefly affected in men are the prepuce or the scrotum : chylous hydrocele may sometimes be present. In women the labia majora, and more rarely the clitoris are the chief parts involved. TREATMENT.—Very little can be done in the way of a cure for the disease. There is no way of reopening the lymphatic vessels, and thus getting rid of the obstruction to the lymphatic flow. Hence the treatment consists either in an attempt to reduce the swelling and hypertrophy of the parts, or in undertaking their actual removal. As regards the attempt to reduce the swelling, the most obvious methods, and those which do best, are compression and massage. Pressure is best employed by means of an elastic bandage applied fairly firmly, and should be supplemented by