220 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. now known to be of a tuberculous nature. In addition to the presence of a small quantity of turbid fluid, which is sometimes indeed sero-purulent, and the presence of these rice-like bodies, the sheath itself is thickened and irregular, with fibrinous or cheesy material and "rice bodies" adherent to its surface. The latter vary in size from the head of a pin to a pea, they are smooth and flattened, and are usually somewhat ovoid in shape. The condition may co-exist with disease of a neighbouring joint, but it more often occurs alone. The most usual situation for the aff"ection is in the common flexor sheath in front of the wrist; it may also occur on the front of the fingers or at the back of the wrist, in the sheath of the peronei tendons and the extensors of the foot. Active work seems to predispose to the condition. Symptoms.—The most noticeable signs of this condition are the rubbing of these bodies against each other, the presence of a certain amount of dull pain, increased by pressure, and an indistinct sense of fluctuation. The presence of the rice bodies is very noticeable where there is a con- striction in the sac, as for example on the palmar surface of the fingers, where one part of the distended sheath is in front of the phalanx, and the other part is in front of the metacarpal bone. On pressing the contents from one part into the other the crepitant feeling of the rice bodies as they pass through the constricted portion is quite evident; this is also well marked in the case of the hygroma in front of the wrist. The prognosis is very grave. The disease is apt to extend from the sheath to the tendons themselves and destroy them, and, apart from local troubles such as adhesion and suppuration, the disease is likely to become general or to extend to neighbouring bones or joints. Treatment.—The best method of treatment is to make a free incision into the tendon sheath, and to evacuate all the rice bodies. The cavity should then be scraped with a sharp spoon and washed out with a 1-4000 sublimate solution, and a small quantity of a 10% emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see p. 184) injected. The cavity is filled up with the emulsion, and while it is welling out, the incision in the skin is stitched up by a continuous suture; no drainage tube is required. In a good many cases the trouble subsides after this treatment, but if there should be recurrence the operation must be repeated; in fact the treatment is the same as that recommended for tuberculous chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 249). In the case of hygroma of the wrist extending into the forearm, two incisions should be made, one above and one below the annular ligament. The contents of the sac should then be completely evacuated, the cavity filled up with iodoform and glycerine and the skin wound stitched up. Of course all these operations must be done with strict antiseptic precautions. The hand should be kept on a splint for several weeks, passive movement being carried out once or twice a week. When this method does not succeed, the sheath must be dissected out as completely as possible in the manner described below for the treatment