273 OPERATIONS FOR EXPOSURE OF NERVES. brachialis amicus muscles. Just above the bend of the elbow it divides into the radial and the posterior inter-osseous nerves. The nerve may require exposure either on account of rupture, or from pressure upon it by callus after fractures, or for some neuritis from injury, and it is most commonly exposed about the middle of the upper arm, at which point it lies behind the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove close to the bone. {a) In the Middle of the Arm.—The best guide to the nerve in this situation is that given by Kochcr, namely a line drawn along the posterior surface of the upper arm from a point a finger's breadth behind the posterior border of the deltoid, close to the long head of the triceps, down to the tip of the olecranon. The incision should begin immediately below the axillary fold, and the interval between the long and outer heads of the triceps is identified and the two separated down to the bone. The nerve will then be found close to the humerus, between the inner and outer heads of the triceps; in front of it is the superior profunda artery which accompanies it. {i) In the Lower Third of the Arm.—Here the nerve is found in the interval between the supinator longus externally and the brachialis anticus internally, and in that situation it is in front of the humerus. An incision is made over this sulcus and the muscles are displaced outwards and inwards, when the nerve will be seen lying on the bone just before it divides into the two terminal branches—the radial and the posterior inter- osseous. OPERATIONS FOR EXPOSING THE MAIN NERVE TRUNKS IN THE LOWER EXTREMITY. THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE.—This is the largest nerve in the body, and it runs vertically down the thigh to a little below its centre, where it divides into the internal and external popliteal trunks. It lies first beneath the gluteus maximus and the biceps muscles, and it is generally exposed below the lower edge of the former. Its course is represented by a line drawn from the centre of the interval between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter to the middle of the ham. It is exposed by a free incision about four or five inches in length, commencing just above the fold of the buttock, the patient being turned almost completely over upon the face, and the thigh fully extended. After the skin and the fascia are divided, the lower border of the gluteus maximus must be defined, and the fibres will be found running obliquely downwards and outwards. The edge of the muscle is firmly retracted by means of a broad retractor, and the finger is introduced into the wound in order to identify the hamstring muscles just below their origin from the tuber ischii. These are drawn inwards by another retractor, when the nerve can readily be exposed and brought into view. Details as to stretching the nerve have already been given (see p. 263). THE INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE.—This nerve runs downwards in the centre of the popliteal space considerably behind the artery and the vein, i.e. between them and the skin, and may be readily exposed by a vertical incision over the centre of the ham. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the finger is passed in amongst the fat between the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, and will feel the internal popliteal nerve, which lies to the outer side of the popliteal vein. THE EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE.—This nerve may be exposed by a similar incision to the last, but it is still more readily felt at a point lower down its course, where it passes round behind the head of the fibula to reach the front of the leg. In order to expose it here, an incision is made along the posterior edge of the tendon of the biceps, which will expose the nerve immediately below the fascia, as it lies along the outer edge of the gastrocnemius muscle. Below the head of the fibula the nerve pierces the peroneus longus muscle. PT. II. S