337 ANEURYSM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. the upper with the middle third of a vertical line between the two folds of the axilla, when the arm is fully abducted), and if necessary the pectoralis major may be divided so as to obtain better access to the aneurysm. When the sac has been exposed, a small opening is made into it, and this is immediately plugged with the finger, which is introduced through it, and which feels for the opening in the artery. When this is identified, the finger is thrust into it and plugs it, and the sac is laid freely open, the clots turned out, the artery defined, cleared, and tied above and below the opening. If possible, it is well to dissect out the sac, but as a rule, owing to the situation of the vessel and its close relation to the brachial plexus and the axillary vein, it is advisable to leave the sac alone after the clots have been removed. A drainage tube (No. 14) should be inserted well into the cavity left, the pectoralis major muscle, if divided, should be sewn together in the manner described for suture of muscles (see p. 199), the wound stitched up and antiseptic dressings applied. The arm is then wrapped in salicylic wool and lightly fastened to the side. The drainage tube may be left out after three or four days. ANEURYSMS OF THE UPPER ARM AND FORE-ARM. Spontaneous aneurysms of the upper extremity below the axilla are of very rare occurrence. As a rule they result from injuries, usually from puncture of the vessel, and belong to the class of traumatic aneurysms. TREATMENT.—Whenever it is possible the treatment consists in opening the sac, turning out the clots, tying the vessel above and below, and excising the sac completely. This can usually be done without any risk, because the brachial artery can be easily controlled either by the fingers or by an Esmarch's bandage. The actual steps of the procedure depend, of course, upon the particular vessel involved. We shall here shortly describe the operations for ligature of the chief arteries of the upper extremity. Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—(a) Of Tbird Part.—The old operation for ligature of the axillary has already been described (see above); the ordinaiy operation for ligature of the third part of the vessel is sometimes called for in cases of aneurysm of the brachial artery high up in the arm, and is done as follows. The patient lies with the arm abducted to a right angle and the shoulders somewhat raised upon a pillow. An incision is made along the line of the artery, which corresponds to the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle, for about three inches. After the deep fascia has been divided, the inner margin of the coraco-brachialis comes into view and is pulled aside with a retractor. The axillary artery with its vein and the median nerve are at once exposed, and the vessel can be cleared and tied. The median nerve lies on the outer side, the ulnar nerve and the vein on the inner ; sometimes there are two wense comites in place of the large axillary vein (see Fig. 112). The ligature is passed from within outwards, the vein being pulled downwards and the median nerve upwards. {/>) Of First Part.—In some cases this is necessary either because the vessel has been injured lower down or more generally because there is an aneurysm situated on the lower part of it. In its first part the vessel may be reached cither by a transverse incision below the clavicle, which divides a portion of the clavicular origin of the FT. II. V