201 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. contractions will then pull upon the adhesions, and gradually stretch them. In the course of about four weeks the patient should be encouraged to move the muscle voluntarily, but up till then only passive movement should be resorted to. If any firm adhesions should form between the line of union in the muscle and the soft parts, massage and faradism are of the greatest use in breaking them up; if necessary, they may be divided transversely by a tenotomy knife. The uniting material in these cases is composed of fibrous tissue; but if the parts have been well approximated by stitches, and care taken in the course of the treatment not to allow separation to take place afterwards, the line of union is quite narrow and firm, and the muscle is as good as ever. Rupture of muscles may occur independently of an external wound, and results from violent, irregular, or inco-ordinated contraction, though an actual rupture of muscle is much less common than is rupture of a tendon; it generally occurs in men, and is usually only partial, but certain muscles may be torn completely across. The muscle which ruptures may previously have been the seat of disease, or it may be quite healthy; for instance, it occurs more commonly in old than in young men, the muscles in the old taking part in the general atrophy of the body. In other cases, the muscle is found to have been the seat of waxy or fatty degeneration, such as occurs, for example, after typhoid or any other acute infective fever. The muscles most frequently ruptured after infective diseases are the rectus abdominis, below the umbilicus, and the psoas; in both cases rupture generally occurs when the patient sits up in bed too suddenly. Rupture of healthy muscles generally results from violent exertion, especially some sudden and unexpected movement, such as recovering the balance. The muscles which most commonly rupture in this way are the plantaris in playing tennis, the rectus femoris in recovering the balance, the pectoral or the deltoid in throwing, the biceps in pulling, or the sacro-lumbalis in twisting the body rapidly. The long muscles are most exposed to this injury, and it generally occurs at or near the point of junction of the muscular fibres with the tendon ; the rupture may be either complete or partial. Effusion of blood occurs between the divided ends, and the ultimate result, if the case be left alone, is the formation of a fibrous cicatrix between the torn ends with possibly some slight regeneration of muscular fibres; as time goes on, this cicatrix, which is at first broad and resisting, tends to stretch considerably, and under these circumstances the patient never regains the full use of the muscle. Great care must therefore be exercised in the treatment of a ruptured muscle. The symptoms which lead one to suspect this accident are sudden pain in the part, accompanied by a sensation of tearing, followed by loss of power in the affected muscle. There is a characteristic depression over the seat of rupture, and a swelling immediately above it, due to the retraction of the upper part of the divided muscle; the gap and the swelling above