324 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. threaded aneurysm needle is insinuated between the sheath and the vessel. The needle is then threaded and passed around the vessel, from before backwards and from below upwards so as to avoid the possibility of puncturing the vein with the point of the needle. In order to do this, however, a specially constructed needle with a double bend, the second one corresponding to the bend of the clavicle (see Fig. 104) is necessary; otherwise, the needle must be passed from above downwards. Some authorities recommend that the needle should alwa3's be passed in the latter direction in order to avoid inclusion of the lowest cord of the brachial plexus. It should, however, be easy to avoid doing this if ordinary care be exercised in clearing the vessel. Fig. 104.—Dupuytren's Aneurysm Needle. After having tied the ligature, which should consist of a single thread of silk or stout catgut, the wound is stitched up without the intervention of a drainage tube. Sponge pressure (see Part I., p. 170) is applied over the base of the posterior triangle so as to obliterate any cavity left, and the ordinary antiseptic dressings put on. The arm should be well wrapped up m cotton wool and bound lightly to the side for the first week or ten days; it should not be flexed at the elbow, but should lie on a pillow parallel with the trunk. The patient must of course remain in bed,, and any pressure symptoms which may arise during consolidation of the aneurysm must be relieved by appropriate measures. Difficulties and Dafigers.—The operation of ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery is one which is by no means easy even in the dissecting room, and may in actual practice be one of excessive difficult)v The following are the chief difficulties. In the first place there is nearly always very considerable engorgement of the veins, and this may be com- plicated with marked oedema of the cellular tissue, so that, unless the surgeon be very careful, he may be confronted with a wound from which blood wells up copiously, and in which the normal structures of the part cannot be at all easily identified. It is of the greatest importance to have as