SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. 2/2 (6) In the Upper Third of the Forearm.—Here the nerve lies on the inner side of the radial artery, and dips between the two heads of the pronator radii teres muscle. An incision similar to that for ligature of the radial artery in the upper third is made and the pronator radii teres is exposed where it crosses the nerve. If a few fibres of the muscle be then incised internal to the artery or if the muscle be pulled sufficiently forcibly inwards, the nerve is at once rendered accessible. {c) On the Front of the Wrist.—The nerve is here quite superficial and is readily exposed by making an incision about an inch and a half in length, parallel to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis and somewhat to its inner side. The deep fascia is divided and the tendons pulled aside, when the median nerve will at once come into view, lying between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. The former tendons will require to be pulled out of the way. THE ULNAR NERVE.—In the upper third of the arm this nerve passes down between the axillary artery and the vein, after which it leaves the vessel and pierces the internal inter-muscular septum to reach the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna; in this part of its course it is accompanied by the inferior profiinda artery. Subsequently it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and running down beneath that muscle and upon the flexor profundus digitorum it reaches the wrist. At the junction of the upper with the middle third of the forearm it approaches the inner side of the ulnar artery very closely and runs down with it to the wrist. At the front of the wrist it lies close to the radial border of the pisiform bone, where it divides into two terminal branches. (a) In the Arm.—The best place to expose the ulnar nerve in the upper arm is about the centre, where the nerve is just passing through the internal inter-muscular sep- tum. This is easily done by an incision about two inches long situated about half an inch more internally than that employed for the ligature of the brachial artery (see Chap. XXL). The internal inter-muscular septum is exposed and divided, and the triceps is pulled well backwards whilst the brachial artery and the septum are pulled forward, when the nerve will be found lying upon the inner side of the triceps accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. (6) At the Elbow.—Here the ulnar nerve lies immediately behind the internal condyle in the interval between it and the olecranon process, and can be readily felt by the finger and exposed by an incision over it; it is best to make a somewhat curved incision over the olecranon and to turn a flap inwards. This operation is not very frequently required, but it is sometimes called for from the presence of a neuroma upon the nerve or some inflammatory change about the internal condyle giving rise to neuritis, or to dis- location of the nerve forward over the condyle. In the latter case, of course, the nerve after it has been exposed should be replaced in its proper position and the fascia stitched together over it so as to form a sort of sheath to prevent the dislocation recurring. Should the nerve require stretching, it is best exposed just above the condyle, where it is easily accessible, as the nerve can be felt immediately behind the condyle and traced upwards until it passes towards the front of the arm. Here it may be cut down upon and found behind the internal inter-muscular septum. (<:) On the Front of the Wrist.—The nerve is here very superficial and can be exposed by a small incision parallel to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and on its ulnar side. After the skin and fascia have been divided the nerve is at once seen, with the ulnar artery lying on its outer side. THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE.—This is the largest branch of the brachial plexus, and is at first situated behind the third part of the axillary artery. Lower down in the arm it is behind the upper part of the brachial artery, but it soon leaves the latter to run, along with the superior profunda artery, in the groove between the inner and outer heads of the triceps; in this groove it runs round the humerus and pierces the external inter-muscular septum, passing downwards between the supinator longus and the