253 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. often be facilitated by pulling upon the proximal portion, which by the medium of the intervening fibrous tissue pulls more or less directly upon the distal portion and so leads to its identification. It is, however, a difficult matter to find the nerve {e.g. the median in front of the wrist) when it has been divided just before it splits up into a number of terminal branches. After the nerve has been identified above and below the point of division, the next step is to dissect out cleanly and thoroughly all the fibrous connective tissue intervening between the two divided ends. The bulbous end of the proximal portion must then be shaved off until healthy nerve fibres are exposed. This must be done with a very sharp knife, the section being kept strictly at right angles to the long axis of the nerve, and it is well, in order to avoid tearing or other damage to the nerve, to introduce some firm structure, such as a copper spatula, beneath it, and to cut down upon it in making the section. The upper end of the distal portion must next be prepared for suture, and this is best done by cutting off as much of the narrow tapering end as is necessary to get a sufficiently wide surface to suture to the proximal portion. There is no object in cutting off a large portion in order to look for healthy nerve fibres; the degeneration will have progressed a long way down, and resection of the cut end only serves to increase the gap and to make it more difficult to obtain proper approximation. The Esmarch's bandage should only be kept on until the ends of the nerve have been identified and isolated, and should then be removed, so that the oozing which so com- monly follows may have time to cease spontaneously before the wound is sewn up. The method employed for the union of the divided ends will depend largely upon the amount of separation between them. To a great extent the latter may be diminished by gently grasping the proximal end of the nerve, and pulling upon it so as to stretch it. In doing this, care must be taken not to rupture any of the nerve fibres. In the case of a long nerve, a quarter or half an inch, or even more, may be gained in this manner without doing any damage to the nerve itself. If the divided ends now come fairly easily into apposition, they may be united by direct suture in the manner just described (see p. 251), and while this is being done the parts must be relaxed as much as possible by flexing the joints, so as to prevent any undue tension upon the stitches. The limb is put up in the flexed position upon a suitably moulded splint. Plastic operations tipon nerves.—When, in spite of nerve stretching and attention to the position of the limb, the ends will not come into proper contact, the surgeon has the choice of a number of different procedures, amongst which we may enumerate the following, (i) The interval between the ends may be bridged over with strands of fine catgut, which serve as a guide along which the new fibres can spread from the proximal to the distal portion.