CHAPTER IV. CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. Curvature of the bones of the leg is one of the commonest results of rickets. A certain amount of curvature of these bones may also occur in syphilis, osteitis deformans, osteo-malacia, and some other diseases. In the ricketty cases the degree and situation of the curve vary considerably. The most usual condition is a uniform curvature of the entire shaft of the bone with the convexity outwards and somewhat forwards, whilst the shaft becomes flattened from side to side, and there is a tendency to an increased production of bone which acts as a support in the concavity. In other cases the bend, which is somewhat more acute, occurs either just above the lower epiphysis or, more rarely, a little below the upper. This may be met with either alone or in combination with the uniform outward curvature. It is also not uncommon to find a very acute curvature forwards immediately above the lower extremity of the bone. In some quite rare cases the tibia may be convex inwards instead of outwards. The conditions met with most frequently, however, are an outward bowing of the limb or an acute anterior curve immediately above the ankle, or a combination of the two. TREATMENT.—This should be partly general and partly local. The general treatment should be that appropriate for rickets, since this disease is the primary cause of the deformity. The whole subject of rickets will be discussed fully in Part III. Here we need only say that its treatment is partly dietetic and partly hygienic. It may be well to append here the table of directions given to the mothers of ricketty children at Paddington Green Children's Hospital. These rules embrace both dietetic and hygienic instruction, and although mainly designed for the use of hospital out-patients may, with a little modification, be applied to private practice. FOOD. I. Between 9 and 12 months. Give cow's milk warmed and slightly sweetened. Not Siuiss or any form of condensed milk. If diarrhoea or sickness