254 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. (2) Both ends of the nerve may be included within a tube of de- calcified bone of suitable size. (3) Nerve-grafting may be employed. In this procedure a portion of nerve taken from one of the lower animals, or from the amputated limb of another patient, is introduced between the two ends of the nerve, and fixed there by sutures. (4) In some cases, when the affection is in the extremities, the interval between the cut ends may be diminished by resecting portions of bones, and thereby shortening the limb and enabling the cut ends of the nerve to come into position. (5) One or other or both of the divided ends of the nerve may be implanted into another which is intact. The great desideratum in all these cases is a suitable guide along which the nerve fibres developing from the upper portion of the nerve may find their way downwards to the lower portion, and the object of these plans, with the exception of the two last, is to provide a guide of this sort. In our opinion the best plan for cases in which the interval between the cut ends does not exceed two inches, is a combination of the first two methods above mentioned ; that is to say, the ends of the nerves are brought as closely together as possible, the interval between them bridged by means of threads of catgut, and the whole of the defective portion then enclosed in a tube of decalcified bone. This combined procedure has the great advantage that while the decalcified bone tube provides a free and unimpeded channel, down which the new nerve fibres can spread, the threads of catgut ensure that the ends shall not be displaced should the bone tube become absorbed before the regenerated portion has reached the distal end. The combined 7nethod of bridging with catgut and enclosure in a decalcified bone tube.—The technique of the operation is as follows. After the ends have been freed and pared and the parts relaxed as much as possible, a decalcified bone tube of suitable size is slipped over one end of the nerve and pushed either up- wards or downwards according to circum- stances, so a* to leave the cut end protruding for some little distance beyond the end of the tube. The divided ends are now sutured with fine catgut much in Fig. 90. — The Combined method of Nerve-Suture by bridging with Catgut and enclosure in a decalcified bone Tube. In A is shown the first stage of the procedure. The bone tube T has been slipped over one end, well out of the way. A central fixation stitch ab has been inserted, and then all around the periphery of the nerve a series of fine catgut stitches x have been inserted through the nerve sheath. In B the bone tube is shown after it has been slipped up into place over the interval between the divided nerve «nds.