322 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. rent be too large for the application of a lateral ligature or should the latter not hold properly, there is no objection to tying the internal jugular above and below the opening and dividing it between. A single ligature is quite sufficient to occlude the common carotid, and the method of tying it has already been referred to. Difficulties and Dangers.—This operation is, as a rule, quite a simple one; the chief trouble met with is that bleeding sometimes occurs from the branches of the superior or middle thyroid veins, which are dilated by the pressure of the aneurysm, and this may considerably obscure the view while the omo-hyoid muscle is being defined. It is, however, usually perfectly easy to either avoid the veins or to clamp them between two pairs of pressure forceps before they are divided. Another difficulty sometimes met with is that, as a result of the interference with the venous return by the pressure of the aneurysm, the internal jugular may be so much distended as to overlap the artery almost completely; this complication is best met by opening the sheath well towards the inner side. Wound of the vein and inclusion of nerves in the ligature are avoided by care in clearing the artery. When the thyroid gland is enlarged it may get in the way, but it can easily be pulled downwards or inwards. Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery.—This operation is done as follows. The patient should lie on the back, with the shoulders supported on a suitable sand-bag, the head being turned towards the opposite side, and the arm firmly drawn down by an assistant or by a bandage fastened to the foot of the operating table. The clavicle is thus depressed, the posterior triangle enlarged, and the artery rendered much more accessible. After disinfection of the skin, the soft parts are pulled down over the clavicle, and a transverse incision is made immediately over that bone, from the inner margin of the trapezius muscle to the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid. This incision should go directly down to the clavicle and divides the skin, platysma, and superficial and deep fasciae; as soon as it is made, the skin is released, when the incision will be found to occupy the lower part of the posterior triangle, and in most cases to give sufficiently good access to the vessel. Should it be found during the course of the operation that more room is required, a vertical incision may be made upwards along the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid, taking care in doing this not to injure the external jugular vein; a triangular flap is thus formed, which is turned upwards, and stitched or hooked out of the way. The tissues at the base of the posterior triangle are separated with the handle of the knife, when the omo-hyoid muscle will be seen crossing the space obliquely above the clavicle; the fascia along its lower edge must be divided in a direction parallel with the muscular fibres. The supra- scapular and transversalis colli veins and the termination of the external jugular vein will be seen running inwards beneath the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. These vessels are usually very distended, and some