86 CLUB-FOOT. pressure. When this stage has been reached, the tendo Achillis is divided and the equinus is treated on the lines already laid down (see p. 56). About three weeks later the patient may be allowed to walk about wearing a suitable apparatus; for poor people the most convenient is Sayre's (see Fig. 38). It can be renewed every week, and by means of it the foot is kept in good position. As the child walks on the flat sole-piece he everts the foot more and more, whilst the extra length of the splint tends to correct in a marked degree the talipes equinus as the patient vigorously bends the foot upwards on walking. If the patient can afford a suitable apparatus, it is best to abandon the use of plaster of Paris about three weeks after the tenotomy, and to employ a suitable shoe or splint, with the use of which should be combined thorough massage of the limb and the occasional application of electricity. In young infants the splint with the copper band joining the leg- and foot-pieces, already described (see p. 49), is the best. It should be applied with the foot in the false position, and the varus deformity subsequently over- corrected. This splint should be taken off night and morning and the muscles thoroughly massaged and galvanized. When the child grows old enough to learn to walk, or when treatment is not begun until the child is in the habit of walking, a Scarpa's shoe may be applied, and this should be worn continuously for many months and sometimes for years. It must always be remembered that, although the deformity may seem to be perfectly corrected, it takes a very considerable time for the shape of the bones to be materially influenced, and, if the apparatus be left off" too soon, the deformity will inevitably be reproduced and often in a form which is more severe than it was originally. Scarpa's shoe (see Fig. 41) consists of a leg-piece applied to the calf; on the outer side of this leg-piece is attached an iron bar connected with a foot-piece. Opposite the ankle there are two hinges, the upper one corresponding to the ankle joint proper, from which flexion and extension of the foot-piece is made, whilst the lower one raises or depresses the side of the foot so as to bring it into a position of eversion or inversion. Fixed to the outer side of the front of the foot-piece is a strong spring bent considerably outwards, and from this a band is carried around the anterior part of the foot which can thus be, by the outward pull of the spring, brought into a position of abduction. In some forms of the appar- atus this movement is reinforced by a joint in the foot-piece beneath the instep, which, by means of a screw, is made to carry the front half outwards, and thus abduction of the front of the foot is more powerfully effected. In applying a Scarpa's shoe the apparatus is first screwed into a position corresponding with the deformity, and the heel is then carefully fixed down to the foot-piece by the appropriate straps. When this has been done, the apparatus is fastened to the leg, and then the various racks are turned by keys and the deformity reduced as much as possible with- out giving pain. The reduction should not be carried so far as to cause