314 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. quite soft and frothy, and of no use, and besides this a considerable amount of heat may be generated, should the points of the needles come into contact. The clot formed at the positive pole is firm, and is of great use in the cure of the aneurysm, whilst the amount of gas disengaged is com- paratively small. Only the finest needles should be employed, and they should be carefully insulated to within a very short distance of their points, and the uninsulated portion should be thrust entirely into the interior of the aneurysm, so that only the insulated part is in contact with the skin and the wall of the sac. Unless this be done, the naked portion of the needle as it passes through the skin and the wall of the aneurysm may burn a whole in the sac, and the aneurysm may thus become diffuse. The needles of course should be thoroughly disinfected by boiling, before they are introduced; they should not be immersed in the strong carbolic solution, as that is likely to destroy the insulating material. If more needles than one are introduced, they should be kept parallel to one another, as they thus produce the greatest effect. The strength of the current employed may be varied, but it should not be stronger tlian about 50 milliamperes to begin with, and it should be continued until the sac is felt to become firm under the finger. Usually, this occurs in about a quarter to half an hour; the needles may be then withdrawn and the punctures painted over with collodion. The operation may be repeated once a week if necessary, and no anaesthetic is required. (4) The Introduction of foreign bodies into the Sac.—This method was at one time largely employed. The materials introduced were generally either fine iron or silver wire or horsehair, and the object of the procedure was to produce clotting in the aneurysm around these foreign bodies. In a certain number of cases, no doubt, success followed this method, but in others no cure was effected, although large quantities of the foreign body were introduced. In some cases the latter has been known to pass from the aneurysm into the general arterial system, and to have caused serious results. Maceivetis Method.—In place of the introduction of foreign bodies into the sac of the aneurysm and leaving them in situ, Macewen has recently suggested the insertion of fine steel needles through the wall of the sac in such a manner as to scratch or scarify the wall on the opposite side over a considerable area, and thus to produce a rough surface upon which clot will be deposited. The pins should be of tempered steel as fine as possible, and should taper to a point like the ordinary sewing needle; on the opposite extremity is a rounded head. Before performing the operation the skin and the pins are thoroughly disinfected; the pin or pins are then made to penetrate the sac and pass right through its cavity until the point is felt to come into contact with the opposite side, which it should be made to touch but not to penetrate. The point of the pin is then moved over the surface of the wall upon which it has impinged so as to scratch it freely, and this should be done over as large an area as possible. Sometimes the blood current can be felt to move the pin about, and in that case it may be left in situ so that