I06 GENU VALGUM : GENU VARUM : GENU RECURVATUM. and the limbs should be rubbed, and the manipulations above indicated for the rectification of the deformity carried out. When the child is allowed to run about during the day in the open air, the limb should be confined on a splmt at night. In young children the best form of splint is a Thomas's hip splint, in which an outside bar of iron connects the bands surrounding the thigh and leg (see Fig. 47). The splint is fixed on in the usual manner, the band around the thorax is fastened in position, and the trunk secured to the upper part of the splint by means of a flannel bandage. The thigh and leg are then fastened to the splint, and a broad piece of elastic webbing, well padded opposite the internal condyle, is passed around the knee and fastened to the out- side iron band so as to draw the knee outwards. The knee must not be Fig. 47.—Thomas's Hip Splint, adapted for use in Genu Valgum. This is an ordin.-iry Thomas's hip splint to which is added an outside iron bar joining the lateral wings above and below the knee. This iron may be prolonged below the foot so as to prevent the patient from walking. (Modified from Hoffa.) allowed to become flexed, or else the pressure is of no avail in remedying the deformity; care must, likewise, be taken to prevent rotation of the limb at the hip joint, which would render the outward pull upon the knee nugatory. If, however, the leg and thigh be carefully bandaged to the splint before the elastic pressure is brought to bear on the knee, and if the bands of the splint be closely applied to the limb, this is not likely to occur. The splint should be removed in the morning, the limb washed and rubbed, the knee manipulated as before, and then, when the day is warm, the child may be allowed out in the sunshine, to crawl or play about. (2) The cases in ■which there is a separation of from three to four inches bet-wreen the malleoli. Here the child should be kept entirely off his feet, and should wear both day and night a spliftt designed to puU