26 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. the head of the first phalanx. This can easily be done by a lateral incision upon the inner side of the little finger, so as to expose the neck of the bone, which is divided by cutting pliers, and the head removed. The wound is stitched up, the finger brought straight and fixed to a splint, and kept upon it from four to six weeks. At the end of that time passive movement is begun and the finger may be left free. DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. This affection is essentially due to a contraction of the digital processes of the palmar fascia, the main body of that structure usually being only secondarily affected. In typical cases the course of the affection is extremely slow. It is generally symmetrical and usually first affects the ring finger on each side; the next to be affected is generally the little finger, and in bad cases the remaining fingers may become attacked one after another, but in any case the ring finger is the most markedly contracted. The condition is more frequently met with in men than in women, and generally attacks those over fifty years of age. It is not uncommonly associated with gout, rheumatism, or osteo-arthritis. In some cases it is said to be hereditary, but whether it is that the tendency to this particular deformity is hereditary, or whether it is due to the associated hereditary gouty condition, it is hard to say. It is a noteworthy fact that the contraction is particularly prone to occur in persons, such as carpenters and the like, whose occupations entail considerable and repeated pressure by tools and instruments against the palm of the hand. PATHOLOGY.—The essential alteration is a thickening and shortening of the palmar fascia and the various processes of fibrous tissue given off by it. These changes are mainly confined, in the early stages at any rate, to the digital processes, the result of their shortening being a flexion of the finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Later on, as the contraction gets more marked, there is flexion of the first interphalangeal joint as well; the second generally remains unaffected, the two terminal phalanges being nearly in the same straight line. Still later in the disease, the thickening affects the body of the palmar fascia, which then shows irregular masses of fibrous tissue upon it. In addition to the palmar fascia and its digital pro- cesses, the thickening also affects the small fibrous bands which pass from the surface of the fascia to the skin. The result of this is that the skin becomes bound down to the palmar fascia and much puckered, so that there are often hard horny ridges and irregular thickenings in the palm, which are found to be due to the thickened fibrous slips with the adherent skin over them. This point is one that it is important to bear in mind when treating the condition. There is no primary contraction of the flexor tendons, and it is almost invariably found that, after all the fascial structures have been divided, the tendons offer no bar to the re-position of the finger. When, however, the affection has lasted