CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. 98 the ankle, the articular end of the bone being carried backwards. Very little purchase can be got upon the lower portion of the bent bone by the application of a splint, and, moreover, as any apparatus of this kind must obviously be applied either to the anterior or posterior surface, it is some- what difficult to employ one that is quite suitable. Probably the best form is the anterior splint known as Syme's horse-shoe splint (see Fig. 44), which will be dealt with more fully when we come to describe Pott's fracture. It consists of a straight piece of wood which is about the width of the transverse diameter of the limb, running down over the crest of the tibia and expanded below, where it is hollowed out so as to form a horse- shoe into which the instep is received. Owing to the fact that the splint lies along the crest of the tibia, it requires extremely careful padding to prevent the development of pressure sores. The best plan is to apply two long firm pads, one on either side of the crest and projecting well above Fig. 44.—Syme's Horse-Shoe Splint. The sling embracing the heel may be made of elastic webbing. The smaller figure shows the method of rolling up lint to make the padding. it, or else to take a large sheet of lint and roll up the two opposite sides until they meet in the centre, and thus form two rolls of padding connected across the middle; these are applied one on either side of the crest of the tibia. The splint is firmly fastened to the leg opposite the tubercle of the tibia, and an extra large soft pad is placed over the crest of the tibia opposite the point of greatest curvature. The heel is then enveloped in an elastic band, or a suitable piece of elastic webbing, the ends of which are attached to the prongs of the splint, and by which, therefore, a steady pressure, which can be increased or diminished at will, is exercised upon and tends to pull forward the heel. This arrangement is better than a posterior splint, by means of which an attempt is made to push forward the heel whilst backward pressure against the splint is made over the point of greatest convexity. The result of that generally is that too much pressure is exerted upon the heel, and a sore results.