176 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. should be thoroughly cleansed and well sponged with undiluted carbolic acid ; if a localized inflammation, such as a boil, it should be freely incised and scraped out, and the raw surface thus left swabbed over with the acid in a similar manner. The local affection itself is best treated in the early stages by fomentations (see Part I., p. 12). Sometimes, when the lymphangitis is very acute, it is advantageous to use fomentations of a warm watery solution of carbolic acid (1-40). Cyanide gauze soaked in this solution and not squeezed very dry is placed over the affected area, and outside it is laid a large piece of mackintosh cloth or gutta-percha tissue overlapping it in all directions. In this way heat and moisture are obtained, while at the same time the carbolic acid may be absorbed by the skin, and, passing along the same lymphatic trunks as the poison itself, may produce a direct action upon the organisms. This can hardly effect a true disinfection, but by its means an attenuation of the virulence of the organisms may possibly be brought about. If carbolic fomentations be employed, care must be taken not to cover too large an area with them, as otherwise a poisonous amount of the drug may be absorbed. It is further important to remember that carbolic acid should not be used when kidney disease is present. In any case, the urine should be examined for carboluria, and if this or any other sign of carbolic acid poisoning be detected, the fomentations should be changed for those of boracic acid. When abscesses form or diffuse cellulitis occurs along the course of a lymphatic vessel, incisions must be made at once, and the treatment proper for acute abscess and diffuse cellulitis adopted; this has been already described (Part I., Chap. II.). In the gangrenous form of lymphangitis free incisions should also be made. They should extend through the whole length of the gangrenous patch and well into the tissues on either side of it; as in diffuse cellulitis, they cannot be too free. They should also be sufficiently numerous to allow of the escape of all exuded material as far as possible. Unfortunately, in these cases of gangrenous lymphangitis the probability of saving the patient is comparatively slight. Amputation is not of any use. The constitutional treatment must also be carefully attended to. The strength of the patient must be kept up, and stimulants should be freely given, with quinine in doses of five grains every four hours until symptoms of quinism set in. The patient should have plenty of nourishing food, and the bowels should be attended to. The general treatment in fact is that already described for acute inflammation (see Part I., p. 13). It is well also to mention the antistreptococcic serum as a means that may be employed in treating these cases. Its use is more especially indicated if it can be demonstrated by examination of the blood or of the discharges from the wound that the streptococcus pyogenes is the actual causal agent at work; if this be the case the serum should be used with- out delay. In its present strength (as supplied by the Jenner Institute of