INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 283 Treatment of the resulting oedema.—As a sequel to phlebitis of the main vein of a limb there will be oedema of the parts below the block, which is often very marked and may take a long time to subside completely. The amount and duration of the oedema depend mainly upon the extent of the thrombosis and upon whether or not vessels able to carry on the circulation open into the main vein above the seat of the disease ; they depend also to some degree upon the general condition of the patient, the nutrition of the tissues, the presence of anaemia, etc. Hence the treatment does not by any means necessarily come to an end when the phlebitis passes off. The oedema of the limb which follows must be treated by the ordinary methods, namely, pressure and massage. The employment of massage in oedema resulting from phlebitis must be very carefully resorted to. It should not be begun too early or carried out too vigorously, as otherwise fresh phlebitis may be set up. In any case it is well not to commence it for at least a couple of months after an attack. Should no fresh attacks occur during that time, the risk of lighting up fresh inflammation is much less, and the chance of detachment of the clot will be reduced quite to a minimum; even then, however, the massage should be very gently employed in the immediate neighbourhood of the vein. At first it should be done once a day, in the morning, for about twenty minutes, the frequency and length of the sittings being gradually increased; in the intervals, the limb should be firmly bandaged from below upwards, and should be kept elevated on every possible occasion so as to promote the circulation. When the patient is allowed to walk about, an elastic bandage should be applied from the foot to above the seat of the oedema, and this should be put on before he leaves his bed and after the employment of the massage. This will be referred to again presently in speaking of the treatment of varicose veins. The patient's general health must also be very carefully attended to. Plenty of nourishing food must be given, whilst amongst drugs iron and arsenic are the most useful. VARICOSE VEINS. By varix or varicose veins is meant a condition in which the venous trunks are both dilated and elongated. The lower extremity is the most usual seat of the disease, but varicose veins are also common in the htemor- rhoidal plexus,—where they are known as piles,—and in the pampiniform plexus,—where the affection is termed varicocele. When they occur elsewhere, particularly in the upper arm, they are usually due to some congenital mal- formation, though they may also be due to pressure on the veins, aneurysmal varix, etc. We shall only deal here with varicose veins in the leg; varix elsewhere will be treated of in connection with the regions in which it occurs. CAUSES.—Varicose veins in the leg may be met with at almost any period of life, but they most frequently commence between the ages of twenty and thirty. They are much more common in men than in women—a fact