GENU VARUM. This apparatus can be made of quite light material, and should be worn for two or three months after the operation. Those forms of genu valgum arising in connection with diseases other than rickets must be treated on the lines laid down for the treatment of the particular disease to which they are due. Should genu valgum occur after excision of the knee, the choice will lie between a fresh excision, or Macewen's operation; in most cases the latter is a less severe and an equally satisfactory method. Should genu valgum occur in connection with infantile paralysis, the usefulness of the limb will have to be taken into consideration; in some cases it may be found best to perform excision of the knee joint, so as to give the patient a firm and fixed point of sup- port, whilst in others where the muscles are fairly healthy, a Macewen's operation, or any of the other operative procedures which we have mentioned, may be employed. GENU VARUM. This condition is the converse of the one just described, the lower part of the thigh and leg being bowed outwards to a greater or less extent, so that when the feet are placed together the two limbs form an ellipse, or, in very severe cases, almost a complete circle. The affection is essentially due to rickets, although a somewhat similar deformity may occur after excision of the knee, from damage done to the inner side of the epiphyseal line; it is also found in those who have constantly to assume certain positions, such as, grooms, etc., who are constantly riding. If the patient be quite young, the deformity when once started may attain a very marked degree; when it originates in adult life, however, it is seldom serious enough to call for any active treatment. The patient usually walks with the toes turned in, and in bad cases the patella is dislocated inwards; flat-foot is not uncommonly associated with it, but the functional troubles in genu varum are usually much less marked than in genu valgum. The condition is generally bilateral, although sometimes children are met with suffering from genu valgum on the one side, and genu varum on the other, in which case the deformity has been supposed to be due to the child always being carried upon one arm so that the legs are pressed towards each other; one limb is thus forced into a condition of varus, and the other into a condition of valgus. TREATMENT.—This should be carried out on lines similar to that for genu valgum. In the milder cases splints should be applied to the inner side of the leg and the patient kept off his feet, while at the same time the general treatment suitable for rickets should be employed. In the severer cases, and in those in which the bones have become con- solidated, osteotomy is necessary. The orthopsedic apparatus consists essentially of an internal splint which should extend on the inner side of