ARTERITIS. 295 to bear directly upon the inflammation of the arterial coat. The chief attention must be directed to the general septic condition. The question of ligaturing the vessel above the seat of inflammation, in cases where acute arteritis affects the extremities, is one which must be carefully con- sidered ; the object of the procedure is to prevent the displacement of the breaking-down clot and to clear out clots already present, on principles similar to those that guide us in the treatment of septic phlebitis. When the case is one of peri-arteritis, the treatment of the inflammation in the vicinity of the vessel is of course the chief point; here there may be not only thrombosis and septic embolism, but softening of the vessel wall with rupture, and haemorrhage into the tissues or through an open wound may ensue. Such an accident is, however, of extreme rarity. The general treatment must be that of pyeemia (see Part I., Chap. X.). (b) Chronic Arteritis.—The chronic forms of arteritis are often associated with -the various constitutional conditions already mentioned; when the arteries are becoming thick and hard, and when other signs, such as cold extremities, perverted sensations, etc., which betoken the occurrence of atheroma, are present, any constitutional affection which might lead to chronic arteritis must be sought for and, if possible, removed. Iodide of potassium should be given in the case of syphilis; suitable diet, drugs, and exercise in the case of gout; and the ordinary treatment must be employed for diabetes. The patient should also be specially warned against doing anything which might precipitate the onset of any of the ordinary sequelse of the disease. One of the most common of these is gangrene, which may result either from thrombosis in the vessel, or from the gradual narrowing of its lumen without thrombosis; this has been already dealt with under the heading of gangrene (see Part I., p. 68). The other common sequela of chronic arteritis is aneurysm, with which we shall deal immediately. Anything, therefore, which injures parts already imperfectly supplied with blood, or which throws an extra strain on the walls of the vessel, must be rigorously avoided, ANEURYSM. By the term aneurysm in its widest sense is understood a cavity con- taining blood communicating by an opening of variable size with the lumen of an artery. According to this definition, two conditions are met with which are spoken of respectively as true and false aneurysm. By a true aneurysm is meant one in which the sac was originally formed by dilata- tion of one or more of the coats of the _artery; in other words, its forma- tion was preceded by a weakened or diseased condition of the vessel wall. By a false aneurysm, on the other hand, is meant one in which the wall of the sac was never constituted by any part of the original vessel wall; in other words, there must have been solution of continuity of the wall of the artery in the first instance. A true aneurysm is thus of pathological, a false aneurysm of traumatic, origin.