32 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. The preliminary treatment of the palm, in order to render it supple, is the same as before, and the after-treatment is identical with that for the sub- cutaneous operation (see p. 28). The immediate result of this operation is usually satisfactory, but here, as in the former case, the contraction tends to recur. The after-treatment is the same as that already described for the other method (see p. 28). We shall now briefly consider the points that would lead the surgeon to prefer any one of these operations to the others in particular cases. (1) In early cases, where the fingers are not bent beyond a right angle, subcutane- ous tenotomy is usually as satisfactory a method as any other, and is the one that should be chosen. (2) Where there are only one or two tight bands, where the skin is not markedly puckered, and where the fingers are not greatly contracted, the best method is to remove the fascia by careful dissection,—the second procedure described. (3) In very advanced cases, where the fingers are tightly bound down to the palm, this latter operation oannot be performed, because it is impossible, on account of the con- traction of the fingers, to get proper access to the palm so as to make the requisite incisions. Under these circumstances the best treatment is to perform tenotomy in the first instance, and to get the finger as straight as possible by this means. As a rule, however, tenotomy will not allow the finger to come quite straight because the skin itself is contracted, and therefore the result is incomplete. The third operation described, namely, that by the V-shaped incision, may be very usefully combined with tenotomy so as to complete the straightening of the finger, which the former method has commenced. The two operations should, however, be done at different times. The result of the tenotomy is to endanger the vitality of the skin at various points; this, however, very rarely sloughs, unless too great pressure be brought to bear on it; but if a V-shaped incision were made immediately after the tenotomy was completed the damaged portions of the skin would almost certainly die. Hence a sufficient time must be allowed to elapse between the tenotomy and the open operation to allow these damaged portions of skin to properly recover, and during this time the fingers should be kept somewhat extended on a splint; three weeks' interval is usually enough. It is quite useless to attempt to perform the operation of dissecting out the contracted fascia immediately after tenotomy has been done, because all the tense bands have been divided, and they cannot be properly recognized. This is the reason why the V-shaped operation is to be preferred to the other in these cases. CONTRACTIONS AFTER BURNS. It is not at all uncommon, especially in young children, to get con- traction of the fingers as a result of the cicatricial contraction following upon burns, and this is of the greatest importance because of the resulting