CHAPTER III. CLUB-FOOT. Bv the term Club-foot or Talipes is understood a permanent deformity of such a nature that the foot is inclined at an angle to the leg, so that the sole no longer rests upon the ground in the normal position when the patient bears his weight upon it. The directions in which the foot may be dis- placed are various, and the displacements may be either simple or compound. Of the simple forms of club-foot we may enumerate Talipes Equinus, where the heel is drawn up and the toes are pointed, the patient walking upon the extremities of the metatarsal bones; Talipes Calcaneus, where the reverse condition exists, the front part of the foot being drawn up and the patient walking upon the heel; Talipes Varus, in which the foot is inverted, and the patient walks upon its outer border; and Talipes Valgus, where the foot is everted, and the patient walks upon the inner border. In the great majority of cases, however, the deformity is a mixed one, the most frequent being Talipes Equino-varus, which is a combination of talipes equinus with talipes varus. Talipes Equino-valgus, Talipes Calcaneo-valgus, and various other less important forms are also met with; there is also the affection known as Fes Cavus, or hollow club-foot, where the plantar fascia is much shortened and the arch of the instep greatly exaggerated. The cases of club-foot may be divided into two great classes, namely, the congenital form, in which the condition is present at birth, and the acquired one, in which the affection develops at some later period. CAUSES AND PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES—Congenital talipes is probably due in the main to some arrest of development in the foetus, more particularly to some cause which leads to failure of the rotation of the foot from its foetal into its post-natal condition. During early intra- uterine life, the feet commonly lie in a position closely resembling talipes equino-varus, but shortly before birth the lower extremity becomes rotated in such a manner that the foot assumes its normal position; if from any cause this rotation does not take place, congenital talipes equino-varus is the result. Congenital club-foot may also be associated with imperfect