50 CLUB-FOOT. with the other, and then gradually brings the splint, and with it the foot, into its normal position; after a few days the limb may be brought into a position of over-correction. In bringing the foot into position, the stout copper wire connecting the two portions of the splint is gradually bent, but it is sufficiently stout to retain its new position when the pressure is relaxed, and thus resists the tendency of the muscles to reproduce the deformity. The splint should be taken off two or three times a day to permit of the manipulations referred to above, and before being reapplied it should be bent back into the false position; it is then fixed on the leg and foot, and the limb afterwards brought into the over-corrected position. Besides manipulations and the use of retentive apparatus, special im- portance attaches to the employment of suitable massage designed to maintain B A c Fig. 26.—Metal Talipes Si'Lint. A shows the splint before application. B illus- trates the splint applied to the foot while still in its faulty position. The splint is easily made to fit the foot by bending the stout copper connecting wire a. C shows the faulty position of the foot rectified by bending the splint back into the position shown in A, while the foot is firmly fixed to it. the full power of the muscles of the lower extremity, which of course tend to be somewhat interfered with while the limb is kept on the splint. In some cases benefit may be obtained from the use of a galvanic current, especially when the muscular action is feeble. It should be applied for ten minutes every day to the muscles both at the back and in front of the limb; and massage, with or without douchi?ig with hot and cold water, may be used every day for about the same length of time. When the child is old enough to learn to walk, the metal splint just described or a Scarpa's shoe (see Fig. 41) may be employed; and, in addition, exercises, such as tiptoe exercises, rising on the outside of the foot, etc., varying according to the nature of the deformity, should be employed.