149 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. carbuncle, there is a certain risk that the organisms may be pressed into the cellular tissue and the lymph spaces around, and thus set up fresh trouble. The skin around the affected area should be disinfected both before the operation is commenced and also after the part has been scraped out, because the sloughs and pus from the interior are otherwise certain to re-infect the skin. When the slough has been got rid of, and the raw surface remaining thoroughly swabbed with pure carbolic acid, the wound should be packed with moist cyanide gauze sprinkled with a small quantity of iodoform. Care must be taken not to use too much of this drug, because it is readily absorbed and may give rise to toxic symptoms; curiously enough, surfaces which have been impregnated with undiluted carbolic acid absorb iodoform more readily than those which have not been so treated. Sulphur (flowers of sulphur) is also a good application, and may be dusted over the wound before it is packed with the gauze. If this method be employed, the dressings should be changed in 24 or 48 hours, and, if there should be any signs of the disease spreading, fresh sulphur may be applied. The sulphur forms a slough smelling strongly of sul- phuretted hydrogen, and varying in depth with the length of time it is allowed to act; its action is perfectly painless. Of these two methods we prefer the former. The after-treatment will consist in renewing the gauze packing as often as may be necessary, probably in most cases every 24 hours, until the wound is healthily granulating. When this has occurred, skin-grafting (see Part I., p. 50) should be employed. If the surface be not skin- grafted it will take a very long time to heal, especially if the carbuncle be situated on the back of the neck; in the latter situation the destruction of tissue may lead to inconvenient contraction if ungrafted. Where sulphur is used the dressing is changed every 24 hours, and if there be any sign of recrudescence of the affection—as shown by brawny swelling about the edges, or throbbing pain—either more sulphur is dusted thickly on, or the gauze packing is impregnated with it. If the process has come to an end, hot boracic fomentations are applied until the sloughs have completely separated, when ordinary gauze dressings may be used till granu- lation is complete, after which the area may be skin-grafted. (3) Free incision alone without scraping, such as it is possible to do without an ansesthetic, is not nearly so good a practice as either of the methods just described, and while great relief is no doubt given to the patient by promoting the escape of discharge and the relief of tension, the septic process is not arrested, and the length of time occupied in healing will be very considerable, during all which time the patient remains liable to an attack of general septic disease. On the other hand, if the carbuncle be got rid of in one of the ways described, and skin-grafting be subsequently employed, the duration of the affection is very much reduced.