12 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The ligaments of the first inter- phalangeal joint, in particular the lateral ligaments and the anterior or glenoid ligament, are very markedly shortened when the deformity is once established. This is accompanied by secondary contraction of the flexors of the toes (which, however, does not occur until a late period), and by alterations in the articular surfaces. In bad cases the second phalanx is actually drawn up under the first, leaving the articular surface of the latter entirely uncovered. Hence, if attempts are made to forcibly straighten the joint, even after tenotomy of the flexor tendons, the re.sult is simply a dislocation of the second phalanx beneath the first (see Fig. 9). The articular surface of the first phalanx becomes rapidly denuded of cartilage and covered with fibrous tissue, so that an imperfect joint must result, even if the joint surfaces are restored to their relative position. Fig. g.—Diagram to show how Forcible Straightening of a Hammer Toe MAY RESULT IN DISLOCATION. The lateral ligaments, which are not shown in the figure, are attached on each bone at a point somewhat below the centre of the lateral aspect. Any attempt at forcible straightening with the ligaments intact must therefore result in the dislocation of the base ot the second phalanx beneath the head of the first, as shown in the left-hand figure. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this deformity is somewhat trouble- some; it may be carried out in three ways: (i) by means of mechanical appliances designed to prevent the flexion of the second phalanx; this in acquired cases should be combined with treatment directed to the cure of the co existing hallux valgus and also with tenotomy of the contracted ligaments or other structures around the joint; (2) by removal of the head of the first phalanx, so as to allow the joints to be easily brought straight; and (3) by amputation. (i) Appliances.—Before employing mechanical appliances it is best, particularly in the more advanced cases, to commence by dividing the lateral and anterior ligaments of the first inter-phalangeal joint and (in the rarer cases calling for it) the flexor tendon ; a tenotome with a very small cutting blade should be used for the purpose. The line of the joint is carefully defined by the finger nail, and the point of the knife made to penetrate the skin at right angles to the long axis of the toe, at the junction of its dorsal with the lateral aspects, and pushed directly down into the joint, the lateral ligament to be divided being rendered tense by lateral pressure on the point of the toe. Very slight movement of the knife generally divides the ligament immediately, when the process is repeated on the opposite side. The toe is then forcibly straightened and