TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 205 long-standing cases of rupture of the rectus femoris, we have ourselves operated more than once with very great benefit. The operation is conducted much in the same way as that just described. A curved incision, with the convexity upwards, is carried across the limb, well above the seat of rupture, the flap being turned down, the fascia divided, and the fibrous tissue between the divided ends exposed. This is cut away, and an attempt is made to bring the ends of the muscle together. We have noticed a point of great practical importance in cases of rupture of the rectus femoris, namely, that the divided upper end curls up underneath, and becomes adherent to the back of the belly of the muscle at a little distance from the free end. If, therefore, one were to cut across the muscular fibres at the point where they apparently join the fibrous tissue, with a view of refreshing them, a considerable portion of the length of A B Fig. 75.—Method of Lengthening a Muscle. In A is shown the method of dividing the whole width of the muscle by means of a zig-zag incision. This gives rise to a series of blunt serrations on either side of the incision when the lower part of the muscle is pulled down. This has been done in B which represents diagrammatically how the sides of the gaps left by the incision are first sewn together so as to leave a blunt conical end to the muscle above and below the gap left by pulling down the lower portion, and how these blimt conical ends are then sutured to each other by the stitch shown in Fig. 72. This allows the edges of the original defect in the muscle below (which has been shown in error in the tendon) to be approximated and sutured. the muscle would be lost. Hence, after dividing and removing the fibrous tissue, which connects the separated ends, the belly of the muscle should be turned up, and the spot where the latter has actually been divided should be looked for. The cicatrix at that part is then dissected out, and the muscular fibres unfolded. After the ends of the muscle have been prepared in this way, the stitches are passed in the manner already described (see p. 199); as they are tightened, the muscle is relaxed to its fullest extent, and the suture completed.