SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. MALIGNANT PUSTULE OR ANTHRAX. Anthrax is a disease of the lower animals, especially of sheep and cattle, but it sometimes affects man, and comes under the notice of the surgeon in the form known as malignant pustule. The disease is due to the bacillus anthracis, which grows in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues, but has a great tendency to pass into the blood-vessels and cause general infection. It occurs especially in those, such as tanners, mattress- makers, butchers, etc., who are brought in contact with the skins and hair of infected animals, and it is caused probably in all cases by direct inocu- lation through lesions of the skin or mucous membrane. Inoculation is followed by a period of incubation, then by the appearance of a red spot, and subsequently of a vesicle. When the condition is fully developed there is a central black area which is a slough, and outside this there are one or more circles of small vesicles, and outside that again there is an oedematous and erythematous condition of the skin. In advanced cases there is enormous swelling and brawniness of the parts, and wide extension of the oedema, which, in certain situations, as in the neighbourhood of the upper air passages, may in itself be a very serious danger. This is accompanied by enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands, and, if the case be left to itself, it usually goes on to extension of the gangrene, phlebitis, lymphangitis, internal complications, and death. As regards the general symptoms there is from the first a very small feeble pulse, a dry skin, a temperature up to 104° F., and subsequently bloody urine, the patient passing into a typhoid condition in which death occurs. TREATMENT.—(a) Prophylaxis.—In the first place, if there be any suspicion that the animal or the hair is contaminated with the anthrax bacillus, precautions must be taken at once to disinfect any accidental cut or scratch that may occur in those that work in contact with it. Any wound should be thoroughly cauterized, first of all with a red-hot iron, and then with undiluted carbolic acid. The skin around should be dis- infected with the strong mixture, and antiseptic dressings applied. When the pustule has developed, very few patients recover unless the local treatment be early and vigorous. (b) Local.—In the milder cases the best treatment is to completely excise the swelling whenever the size and situation of the pustule is such that it can be done safely, and then to thoroughly cauterize the wound left with a red-hot iron and afterwards to apply ufidihited carbolic acid to the cauterized area. The application of chloride of zinc paste (see p. 164) to the raw surface left by the excision is often practised. It is, however, not so reliable as the application of the actual cautery, and gives rise to much more pain afterwards. The progress of the affection is so rapid that if the whole of the disease be not destroyed at the first sitting there is not much chance of the somewhat tardy action of the chloride of zinc