352 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. In employing compression the assistant first feels for the pulsation of the artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis at a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and when this is found he exerts pressure directly backwards. When the superficial femoral is compressed in Scarpa's triangle, the pressure should be directed backwards and outwards against the shaft of the femur. The simplest way to employ compression is for an assistant to sit in a chair upon the affected side and to place two or three fingers of the right hand directly over the line of the artery, and make pressure with them against the brim of the pelvis until pulsation in the aneurysm ceases. The pres- sure may be reinforced by two or three fingers of the left hand applied over those of the right (see Fig. 128). Upon the fingers may be laid a bag containing two or three pounds of shot, or a leaden weight of suitable size and shape, so as to diminish the amount of muscular effort required ; with this aid it may be possible to maintain compression for a longer Fig. 128.—Digital Compression of the Common Femoral Artery. The pressure of the fingers may be reinforced by a leaden weight or a bag of shot. The method illustrated is better than compression by encircling the limb with the two hands and making pressure with the thumbs, as less muscular effort is required. period than fifteen minutes. When the assistant becomes tired, a second should apply pressure higher up or lower down over the vessel, and should control the circulation before the first assistant relaxes his pressure. Pressure may thus be kept up by a relay of men until either coagulation in the aneurysm is complete or the patient can tolerate the pressure no longer. It is difficult to say exactly how long pressure should be kept up, as so much depends upon the individual patient; cases are known in which a cure has resulted after the application of pressure for as short a time as four hours, whilst in others the duration of the treatment has had to be measured by days. Speaking generally perhaps we might say that pressure should be maintained for from four to eight hours in the first instance, and then the patient may be left alone for a day or two, so as to give the skin and soft tissues time to recover from the pressure to which they have been subjected. It not infrequently happens under these cir-