THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 87 pain, and there should be no undue pressure upon the straps which pass across the instep and fasten the heel to the splint, as otherwise sores may form beneath them. Much more will be done by gentleness and the gradual reduction of the deformity than by any violent attempt to over- correct it at once; the correction should be gradually increased from time to time until at last the deformity is over-corrected (see Fig. 41), but at no time should this cause any pain. Fig. 41.—Scarpa's Shoe. On the right-hand side is seen the apparatus before use. The two ratchets (turned by the key shown below the figure), the upper one for flexing and extending the ankle, and the lower for inverting or everting the foot, are seen near the junction of the outside leg-iron with the foot-piece. The broad sling used to pull outwards the front part of the foot is also seen in front attached to a button on the end of the stout spring attached to the outer side of the sole and exerting a forcible outward pull. In the left-hand figure the apparatus is applied to a case of equino-varus. The foot is firmly everted, the toes raised, the heel depressed, and the front half of the foot pulled outwards. The shoe is put on when the foot is in the corrected or almost corrected position, and the over-correction obtained by turning the ratchets with the key. The apparatus is likely to be of most service in children who can walk and who are over the age of three years; in younger children the foot is so small that the shoe cannot get proper purchase, and therefore the lighter metal splint is preferable. The shoe should be worn night and day, and should only be taken off for renewal and for the practice of massage and manipulations. Its use should be continued for several years—at the very least for three or four. The child may walk while wearing the apparatus. At the end of three or four years, when it is found that the foot retains its proper position when the child stands or walks, the splint may be dis- pensed with, but even then it is well to see that the boots are properly