36o SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. three to four inches in length is made in the line of the artery over the middle third of the thigh in the situation of Hunter's canal. After the skin and fascia have been divided the sartorius will be exposed as it crosses the space obliquely from without inwards (see Fig. 132). It is usually most convenient to draw this muscle to the inner side, but should the surgeon be operating at the upper part of the canal he will find it more easy to pull it outwards. This exposes the fibrous connec- tion between the adductor longus and the vastus externus which forms the roof of the canal. A portion of this should be picked up in dissect- ing forceps and nicked, and the canal then laid open throughout the whole length of the incision upon a director or by means of the finger guiding a probe-pointed bistoury. This will expose the artery which runs along the floor of the space, with the saphenous nerve on its outer side and the femoral vein behind it. At the lower part of the canal the latter passes somewhat to the outer side of the artery. In this situation also the saphenous nerve crosses the front of the vessel from the outer to the inner side, close to the spot at which the artery passes through the opening in the adductor magnus. Here also the anastomotica magna comes off and runs downward towards the knee. The artery in Hunter's canal is always tied above the origin of this branch. To do this the sheath of the artery is opened, the vessel cleaned, and the needle passed from the outer side just above the origin of the anastomotic branch. The after-treatment is that already described for the other ligatures of this vessel. (b) Of the Popliteal Artery.—As the anastomotica magna is one of the main factors in carrying on the collateral circulation, it is a better plan to Fig. 133.—Ligature of thf. First Part of the Left Popliteal.— A.M. Adductor magnus tendon. A. Popliteal artery. S. S.-»rtorius muscle. N. Long saphenous nerve. F. Fascia lata. tie the artery below the origin of that vessel wherever it is possible. This means that when the aneurysm is situated at the lower part of the popliteal space the popliteal artery should be tied above its centre. The best way to reach the upper part of the popliteal is to dissect down upon it from the inner side of the thigh. The limb is placed in the same position as for ligature of the femoral, and the surgeon feels for