95 CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. comes on, or curds appear in the motions, boil the milk and add one part of lime, barley, or rice-water to two parts of milk. Give twice a day a meal of milk, thickened with Robb's biscuit or wheat flour, or Mellin's, Ridge's, Savory and Moore's Food. Nestle's Food, which does not require milk, may also be given. All infants' foods should be g^ven in small quantities at first. 2. At 12 months. Besides milk, thickened as above, eggs with milk, gravy with bread-crumb, or well-mashed potato may be given; also rice, sago, arrowroot, semolina with milk ; gruel and oatmeal porridge. 3. At 18 months. Give once a day a little fresh fish, such as plaice, or in addition, finely minced mutton. Food should still be almost entirely milk and all things made with milk. Do not give cheese, pastry, shellfish, salt fish, unripe fruit, nuts, sweets, tea, wine, beer or spirits. Feed at regular times—not every time the child cries. 4. Between 9 and 15 months. Feed, by day, every three hours, and once during the night. Give one and a half to two pints of milk daily—plain, thickened and in puddings. 5. After that age feed every four hours by day, and give one pint of milk to drink during the day. Do not feed at night. On no account keep the child at the breast after it is nine months old. Mother^s milk is useless to the child after that age : and suckling is most injurious to the mother. It is a mistake to suppose that suckling after this time prevents pregnancy. CLOTHING. They should always wear flannel next the skin. By Night: A long flannel night-gown, fastened below the feet and at the wrists and throat. Let them sleep in cots by themselves—never in a draught, or between the window or fireplace and the door. Bed-clothes should be warm and light. Keep the window open all night in warm weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. By Day {a) a flannel vest fitting closely round the neck—loosely elsewhere. All other clothing about the chest should be loose and warm. {b) A well-fitting flannel binder round the belly reaching from just below the hips to the lowest part of the breast bone. {c) Flannel Drawers should always be v/orn. They may be buttoned on to the binder, to which shoulder-straps should be added. The binder will then not slip up or down. {d) In cold weather warm stockings or woollen gaiters reaching to the top of the legs should be worn. All under-clothing as well as bed-clothes should be well aired before use. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 1. Keep them out of doors most of the day in fine weather. Do not let them be carried by other children not much bigger than themselves. Get a perambulator in which they can lie down. Wrap them up well, and use as a foot-warmer in cold weather a strong wine-bottle filled with hot water and placed in a thick stocking. 2. Keep them clean. Wash them all over night and morning with soap and warm water. Dry carefully with a soft warm towel. Then with the open hand chafe and rub the limbs from below upwards until the skin is rosy. The limbs should be