CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. is pressed against the acetabulum, and the more the child stands upon the leg the longer is this pressure maintained, and the more quickly is the acetabulum increased in depth. Hence the child should never be dis- couraged from walking, and, in order to facilitate it the plaster should not be continued below the knee at the second sitting if the abduction can be sufficiently diminished to permit of walking. The leg is thus left free for movement, which both helps to maintain its nutrition, and also greatly facilitates walking. At first probably the child will only be able to walk with the aid of crutches or some mechanical support, but he soon learns to do without them, and can get about freely. It is always possible to take note of recurrence of the displacement by observing whether or not lordosis is present; should it appear, it may be inferred that the dislocation has recurred, and the apparatus should at once be taken off and the limb put into the proper position. After the second plaster case has been removed, that is to say, at the end of six months from the commencement of treatment, no further apparatus is necessary, the soft parts having become sufficiently shortened through their prolonged rest in the abducted position to keep the head of the bone in place. Indeed, it is common to find that attempts to fully adduct the limb cause pain, and the patient naturally keeps the limb some- what abducted. The head of the bone will usually remain in position without the assistance of any apparatus. Treatment must now be directed to strengthening the muscles about the hip joint, especially the abductors, so that they may prevent the head of the bone from slipping out of position again. This is done by massage, and by the use of suitable exercises and passive movements. The exercises best calculated to do good are those in which abduction is carried out against resistance. The patient should lie down and attempt to abduct the limb, whilst the attendant gently opposes the movements; this serves to strengthen the abductors, which are the main factors in keeping the parts in position. Adduction can be guarded against by raising the heel of the boot on the sound side. At first an increase of about one inch will be sufficient; as time goes on this may be reduced, and ultimately it may be done away with. In cases of bilateral dislocation the outlook is not nearly so favourable, but the treatment is carried out simultaneously and in a similar manner in the two legs. At the end of about twelve weeks abduction may be so far reduced that the patient can use both legs in walking. The results, how- ever, in these bi-lateral cases have so far not been particularly satisfactory. Lorepz'S operative method.—The other method consists in some form of open operation, and, so far, the results obtained have been disappoint- ing, even in the hands of Lorenz and Hoffa, who have done the largest number of these cases; on the whole they do not seem to be superior to, if, indeed, they are as good as those obtained by the bloodless method just described. When, however, children have reached the age of seven years and upwards before they come under observation, the manipulative