52 CLUB-FOOT. notice. For example, in the paralytic form, in which the deformity is in the first instance due not so much to contraction of muscles or alterations in the bones, as to paralysis of one group of muscles, with unbalanced action of the opposing groups, the treatment must be directed to maintaining the foot in its proper position, and to attempts to restore the functions of the paralysed muscles, or to replace them by suitable apparatus. It is always easy in the early stages of this form to correct the deformity with- out the employment of any force and without putting any muscles, tendons, or fibrous structures on the stretch. When, however, the deformity has been allowed to persist for a considerable time, shortening of the muscles and fibrous structures takes place, and their division becomes necessary before the foot can be brought into proper position. In the early stage, therefore, the treatment embraces the means, already indicated (see p. 50), for maintaining and improving the nutrition of the paralysed muscles; besides these it will be necessary to employ some apparatus to prevent recurrence of the deformity. When contraction of tendons, fasciae, or ligaments has taken place secondarily, tenotomy will be called for, and then the treatment is much the same as in the second group of congenital cases to which we have already referred (see p. 51). In the spastic cases the treatment is directed first of all to the cure of the spasm of the muscles, and this is unfortunately not by any means easy. Tenotomy is often of considerable benefit, even at an early stage; the very presence of a tight tendon seems to act as a stimulus in keeping up the spastic contraction, while its division not only enables the foot to be restored to its proper position, but may actually have a curative effect upon the spasmodic condition itself. When the deformity is due to cicatricial contraction, as for example after ulcers or burns, various plastic operations may be necessary to remove the contraction. The nature of the operation depends so much upon the amount and position of the contracting material that it is extremely difficult to lay down any special rules. In these cases prevention is the only really satisfactory treatment, and therefore in all ulcers or burns of any size about the lower third of the leg, skin-grafting should be employed quite early, and a suitable apparatus applied so as to obviate the contraction which is otherwise almost certain to follow cicatrization. When contraction has actually occurred and has lasted some time, the muscles and tendons beneath the scar become shortened and the fascia tense, and even although the cicatrix which was the original cause of the trouble be dissected away, the mal-position of the foot is not as a rule relieved thereby, and some more radical operation will have to be undertaken for its rectification. Sometimes it is possible to dissect away the scar along with the deep fascia, and to bring the foot into position either by manipulations or wrenching or after tenotomy of tendons or fasciee, and then, by employing skin-grafting, to prevent recurrence of the deformity; this is more likely to be the case if the foot, during the