364 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. In order to ligature the vessel the parts are rendered aseptic, the patient rolled over upon the unaffected side and a free incision from three to four inches in length, with its centre corresponding to the point of emergence of the artery is made along the line of the vessel. This incision will run more or less parallel to the fibres of the gluteus maximus, which must be separated and pulled apart with retractors. The interval between the pyriformis muscle below and the gluteus medius above is sought for, and these muscles are separated and held apart. The finger then seeks for the upper edge of the sacro-sciatic notch, upon which the gluteal artery will be found beating (see Fig. 135). The vessel is isolated and a ligature applied; care should be taken to tie it as far back as possible, because the artery divides into two main branches very soon after its exit from the pelvis. After the vessel has been ligatured the aneurysmal sac should be opened, the clots turned out, and the wall dissected away as completely as possible. The Old Operation.—Sometimes, however, when the aneurysm is situated outside the pelvis, there is no room to get proper access to the artery in order to tie it, and in those cases an incision should be first made into the aneurysm sufficiently large to admit one finger. As the knife is withdrawn the finger is rapidly introduced through the opening so as to plug the hole, and gradually pushed on through the clots until it identifies the communication with the artery. This can generally be recognized by feeling the warm stream of blood impinging upon the finger or by actually feeling the ragged orifice of the vessel. The tip of the finger is pressed over this opening so as to command the circulation, and the sac is then slit upwards and downwards from the finger by a probe-pointed knife. The clots are turned out and the vessel tied above and below, the sac being subsequently dissected away. Ligature of the Internal Iliac.—When the aneurysm encroaches upon the pelvis, ligature of the internal iliac artery must be employed. This can be done either by a trans-peritoneal incision or by Abernethy^s extra-peritoneal operation. The steps of these operations are the same as those described (see p. 344) for ligature of the external or common iliac trunk. In either case the ureter must be carefully avoided and the needle passed from above downwards so as to avoid the internal iliac vein which lies behind and to the inner side of the artery. In the trans-peritoneal operation special care must be taken in passing the ligature to avoid including the ureter, which crosses the vessel in front, but which is, how- ever, usually turned forwards with the peritoneum. The internal iliac vein is on the inner side of and behind the artery and the external iliac vein on its outer side. A good light is essential for success as the separation of the artery from the large internal iliac vein has to be very carefully done. ; The operations for ligature of the two following arteries are much less frequently called for.