204 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. In the case of rupture of the quadriceps extensor femoris the leg is placed on a back splint which is elevated on an inclined plane, so as to relax the muscle as far as possible. The skin of the thigh is first shaved, and then a large piece of adhesive plaster, cut as shown in Fig. 74 with an end left free at each side, is appUed over the upper portion of the ruptured Fig. 74. — Treatment of Rupture of Quadriceps Extensor Femoris bv Position. The details are given in full in the text. For the sake of clearness the bandages securing the limb to the splint have been omitted. muscle, and firmly bandaged to the limb. To each free end is attached a piece of elastic tubing, which is fastened to an upright on the bottom of the splint; as the elastic is tightened, the upper portion of the muscle is pulled down by the traction upon the skin. This method, how- ever, is very imperfect, as the actual pulling down of the muscle is very small indeed. The splint must be kept in the elevated position for at least three weeks after the accident. It is then gradually lowered until, after four or five weeks, the Umb is lying flat on the bed. The patient should not be allowed to use the muscle till eight or ten weeks have elapsed since the injury. Subsequently, careful passive and active movements, massage, and electricity should be employed. In rupture of the rectus abdominis muscle, the divided ends are approxi- mated as much as possible by diminishing the distance between the ensiform cartilage and the symphysis pubis; this is best done by propping the thorax well up by a suitable bed-rest and pillows, and flexing the hip-joint by means of a large firm pillow placed beneath the knees. This pillow should be fastened to the head of the bed by a length of bandage on each side so as to prevent it from slipping, and it is well to have a firm foot-rest fixed to the bed-frame, so that the patient can brace himself against it. (2) Long-standing cases.—Cases may also be met with where rupture of a muscle has occurred some considerable time before the patient is seen, and the result may be great loss of power. Much good may often be done by operating with the object of uniting the separated ends, even though as much as a year or two may have elapsed since the rupture. In