42 FLAT FOOT. man's spring is used in these more severe cases. At the same time it must be confessed that the apparatus is cumbrous and expensive, and we do not advise its use where the metal spring answers its purpose. It is, however, the best method to employ where there is much spasm, and, as a result, considerable pain. The other accessory methods of treatment will be the same as those already described for the preceding cases. (4) In the still more advanced cases, where it is impossible to restore the arch of the instep by manipulation, and where the deformity is due principally to the shortening of the ligamentous structures on the outer side of the foot, as well as in some cases to shortening of the peroneal tendons, steps must be taken to stretch the tense structures. The patient should be placed fully under an anaesthetic, and the foot should then be manipulated in all directions, so as to break down any adhesions that may be present. Should any tendon or ligament be found unduly tight, it should be divided by a tenotome. If mere manipulation of this kind should not enable the surgeon to restore the arch of the instep satisfactorily, still greater force must be employed to stretch or break through the resisting structures. This is best carried out by means of a Thomas's wrench (see Fig. 40), which is adjusted to the anterior part of the foot, and by means of which the parts may be forcibly brought into position. After this has been done the foot should be put up in plaster of Paris, with the deformity over-corrected, and kept in it for from four to six weeks. It is well to renew the casing about once every ten days, as it is apt to get loose and somewhat inefificient. In the intervals, when the case is removed, the limb should be massaged, and passive movements in all directions should be carried out. After the lapse of about six weeks from the time of the operation, the tip-toe exercises, referred to on p. 38, should be commenced, and these should be combined with the use of douching and massage, as there recommended. It will also be essential to support the arch of the instep, and in the first place this is best done by Golding Bird's apparatus, for which Whitman's spring may be substituted later on as the parts become more consolidated. The general treatment is the same as that already described. (5) In the worst cases, where even the forcible application of a Thomas's wrench fails to bring the parts into proper position, the treatment is most difficult. The bony deformity is extreme, and the pain and disability from which the patient suffers are sometimes so great that some form of operative procedure becomes necessary. Some surgeons advocate excision of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, some remove a wedge from the neck of the astragalus, whilst others excise a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus, without regard to the structures removed. The operations most generally useful are the removal of the head of the astragalus, or a partial excision of the astragalo-scaphoid joint as described by Ogston. Ogston's Operation has for its object the production of bony anchylosis between the scaphoid and the astragalus, after the foot has been got