l8 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. wards beneath the ball of the great toe. The spring runs nearly to the tip of the great toe, and to its extremity a band is attached which passes around the point of the toe, the other extremity of the apparatus being fastened by means of an elastic band to the ankle. Opposite the arch of the instep the spring articulates, by means of a movable joint, with a small vertical plate, which takes purchase from the instep and acts as a fulcrum. An elastic band runs from the posterior end of the splint around the outer side of the foot, over the ankle, and is brought down and fastened to a hook on the vertical piece or fulcrum on the inner side. The result Fig. 15.—Bunion Spring. Tlie spring is applied to the foot as shown in A and the great toe secured to it. The fulcrum of the lever n rests immediately behind the enlarged head of the metatarsal. The band at the posterior end of the spring is then carried outwards across the sole at right angles, across the front of the instep, round behind the ankle and downwards again across the front of the instep to the inner border of the foot, where it is attached to the fulcrum a ; this is shown in B. Sufficient traction must be exerted on the band to pull the toe into position ; if this cause pain, as much traction must be employed as can be borne with comtort, and this can be gradually increased. The boots in which these springs are worn should have specially stout soles so as to avoid all risk of breakage. (Krohnc and Sesemann.) of this is of course to draw the posterior end of the splint outwards towards the heel. The front portion, and with it the great toe, is carried inwards, and the faulty position thereby rectified. The apparatus is made light enough to go inside a boot of fair size, and most patients can wear it without any marked inconvenience. A very important point in con- nection with the wearing of apparatus for the correction of this deformity is that, whatever be the form employed, it must be worn by night as well as by day, for if its use be discontinued at night, the toe tends to assume the faulty position again, and the process of cure is greatly retarded. In these milder cases, should there be any tenderness of the joint or inflam- mation of the bursa over it, the application of lead or lead and opium lotion, with the foot in the elevated position, will usually sufifice to reduce it •very rapidly. (2) Where the deformity is more severe, and the patient suffers consider- able pain, it is best to proceed' at once to operative measures, for A B