277 WOUNDS. to pinch up the opening in the vein with a pair of forceps, and then to apply a ligature to the pinched-up part—in other words, a lateral ligature is put on. This may act very well if the operation be completed and the ligature be applied immediately before the closure of the wound, but if it be applied early in the operation it is very apt to slip or be pulled off during the subsequent manipulations, when of course the bleeding will recur and the opening in the vein will probably be larger than before. The simplest plan in these cases is to sew up the opening in the vein. This is done by a fine Hagedorn needle threaded with the finest catgut. The circulation through the vein must be arrested by pressure above and below the point of puncture while the rent in its wall is being closed. By using a fine Hagedorn the puncture made by the needle is closed as the stitch is tightened and this form of vein suture is not followed by thrombosis. This method is especially useful in cases of injury to the renal vein during operations on the kidney. Hsemorrhage from veins in bones as a rule stops on pressure, but if it be at all persistent or profuse, the use of Horsley's aseptic wax,i which has been referred to in Part I., p. 133, will readily arrest it. A small piece of the wax is pinched off and kneaded in the hand until sufficiently soft, and it is then firmly pressed into the hole from which the bleeding is taking place and the wound is closed. Where there is continuous oozing from a vein as it passes through dense fibrous tissue or lies in the periosteum, so that it cannot be picked up and tied, the best plan is to pass a curved needle threaded with catgut under the bleeding point, and then to tie the ligature, thus including in it both the vein and a portion of the surrounding fibrous tissue. As a rule, however, in venous bleeding there is not much trouble, and, with the exception of the axillary, the femoral or the renal veins, there need be no hesitation in tying ^nd dividing them. Even in the case of the veins of the extremities, the swelling of the limb, resulting from their ligature, is often very much less than one would expect. Of entry of air.—This has been already referred to in Part I.; it is •comparatively rare nowadays, but seems most likely to occur in connection with the veins about the root of the neck, and hence in operating in that region every care must be taken to apply pressure immediately at or below any wound or puncture that may be inflicted upon any of the larger veins; while the pressure on the proximal side is kept up, the bleeding point should be clamped as quickly as possible. This dangerous complication can be still further guarded against, partly by always operating upon tumours, etc., of the neck through a sufficiently large incision, so that the mass has not to be pulled up forcibly to get proper access to it (a pro- ceeding which puts the veins on the stretch, and so renders any opening into them unduly patent), partly by taking care to clamp veins, especially ^ Beeswax 7 parts, almond oil i part, and salicylic acid i part. It should be kept in a vessel of 1-20 carbolic acid solution.