267 NEURITIS. by dividing the ligaments connecting it with the vertebrae immediately above and below it, and then it is quite easy to detach the remaining laminae by means of cutting pliers bent at a suitable angle, and thus to open the vertebral canal fully. Should it be decided to retain the laminte, they may be turned back in one piece, after the removal of the spinous processes, by first of all carefully dividing the requisite number of laminas on each side by a chisel,, Hey's saw, or cutting pliers, and then dividing the ligaments connecting the lowest lamina of the block with the one below it, and turning up the laminae in one mass on a hinge which is formed by the ligaments con- necting the uppermost lamina divided with the one immediately above it. In order to facilitate the turning back of the laminse, it is well to cut away the spinous process of the vertebra immediately above the uppermost, of the detached laminae. After the vertebral canal has been opened, a quantity of fat con- taining a large plexus of veins is found lying immediately over the dura mater. This should be carefully divided in the middle line with as little damage to the veins as possible; probably in any case there will be very free oozing, which should be stopped before the operation is further proceeded with. One of the best methods of arresting the oozing is to- apply a soft sponge wrung out of lotion as hot as the hand can bear. After the htemorrhage has been arrested, the dura mater is slit up in the middle line throughout the whole extent of the wound, and the edges carefully held apart either by fine toothed forceps or by one or two fine silk sutures passed through it. The next point is the identification of the nerve roots that are to be resected. The desired posterior nerve roots are then divided close to the spinal cord, turned outwards, and as much as possible of them removed. The dura mater is then pulled in towards the middle line, and the ganglion upon the posterior nerve root is broken up and dissected out. When the operation is completed, all bleeding is arrested, and the incision in the dura mater is closed by one or two fine catgut sutures. If the laminag have been merely turned back they are replaced, and the skin wound is sutured. There is no need to fasten the laminae in place by stitches or other contrivances. It is well as a rule to insert a small drainage tube at the lower end of the wound, because there may be a good deal of oozing from the plexus of veins over the dura mater, which, if it could not escape, might lead to injurious pressure upon the cord. Acupuncture.^—At one time the plan of puncturing an inflamed nerve by a long needle was much in vogue; it was especially used in cases of inflammation of the sciatic nerve. The patient is not anaesthetised. The position of the nerve is first marked out partly by anatomical data and partly by the pain experienced on pressure. A long round needle is then thrust rapidly through the skin down into the nerve. The only way of performing this operation successfully is to use a very sharp needle and