FLAT FOOT. 37 formity or anchylosis, in wliich reduction is impossible even with great force. (i) Acute Flat Foot.—The treatment must be directed firstly to the arrest of the inflammatory condition which is the primary cause of the affection, and, secondly, to the support of the arch of the instep until the parts have had time to become consolidated. The main essential is rest; the patient must be prohibited from standing or bearing any weight at all upon the foot. Another essential is to arrest the inflammatory condition causing the trouble. The means at our command for this purpose are numerous and the choice of any particular form will to a large extent depend upon the cause of the affection. In gonorrheal cases, for example, the treatment must be directed to the general condition as well as to the local disease. This will involve the use of the methods appropriate for the treatment of gonorrhoeal diseases of joints and ligaments, which we shall describe in detail in the following volume. It will suffice here to say that in the early stages the application of leeches and hot fomentations are of the greatest value; as the acuter symptoms subside, the use of iodine may be substituted, and later still the employment of massage and passive move- ment. In all cases the patient should lie with the knee bent, and the leg resting upon the outer side of the foot—a position somewhat closely resembling that of the tailor when at work. The general treatment most suitable for the condition will consist mainly in the internal administration of quinine and iron, whilst locally, injections, or still better local applica- tions to the urethra by the urethroscope should be employed to arrest the gonorrhoeal discharge. This question will be dealt with more fully under the heading of gonorrhcea. It is absolutely essential for the successful treatment of these cases to remember the great tendency there is to the production of anchylosis after gonorrhoeal arthritis. Whilst rest is essential in the earlier stages, the use of fixation apparatus, such as plaster of Paris, must be very cautiously employed, and should not be continued for too long a time. Wherever it is found that the arch of the instep is sufficiently maintained by making the patient lie in bed with the knee flexed and the weight of the leg bearing upon the outer border of the foot, it is better to avoid any form of fixation apparatus entirely, and, as soon as the condition of the parts will allow, to employ massage and active and passive movements. In the cases associated with the ordinary rheumatic condition, salicylates should be administered, while, if the pain be at all acute, hot fomentations locally are of considerable value. The patient should also be confined to bed, and, for the first few days, should be encouraged, as in the example just described, to lie with the knee bent and the foot resting upon its outer side in tailor-fashion. In these cases this position alone will almost entirely restore the arch of the instep. Fixation,—In all cases of acute flat foot, except those due to gonorrhoea.