POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. 36r the adductor tubercle and the tendon of the adductor magnus which is attached to it. He then makes an incision about four inches in length from the adductor tubercle upwards, parallel with the tendon of the adductor magnus, and slightly behind it. After the fascia is divided the sar- torius will be found running downwards on the inner side of the thigh, and overlapping the tendon of the adductor. When this is pulled inwards and backwards, the tendon of the adductor will be evident, with the hamstring tendons lying behind it. The space between the tendon of the adductor and the hamstrings must be opened, the latter pulled inwards and backwards, whilst the tendon of the adductor is pulled outwards towards the bone. The finger introduced along the posterior surface of the adductor magnus will feel the popliteal artery as it passes through the opening in the muscle (see Fig. 133). The vessel then comes into view with the vein lying to its outer side, the popliteal nerve being separated from it by some distance. The sheath of the vessel is opened and the needle is passed from without inwards. The operation is a very simple one, and has the advantage we have already mentioned, that it gives a better collateral circulation than is the case when the artery is tied higher up, and the risk of gangrene is therefore to a considerable extent diminished. It occasionally happens, especially after proximal ligature at some distance above the sac, that after a few days pulsation returns and the aneurysm continues to increase. It used to be recommended under such circumstances that amputation should be performed, but now that sup- puration in the deep tissues can be readily avoided the best procedure is to perform the old operation (see below). Similarly, should the aneurysm become inflamed and threaten to suppurate, or should suppura- tion actually occur around the aneurysm, or should the latter threaten to burst through the skin, the old operation should always be performed in preference to amputation. (c) The Old Operation.—The old operation as applied to popliteal aneurysm is somewhat difficult of performance, chiefly on account of the relation of the popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve to the artery, and the adhesions which are apt to occur between these structures and the sac. The former are often very considerably displaced by the enlarge- ment of the sac, so that their exact position is difficult to gauge; hence the old operation for this affection is generally restricted to those cases in which the aneurysm has become diffuse. To perform it, a tourniquet is applied around the thigh, and after the skin has been disinfected, the limb is abducted and rotated outwards with the knee flexed upon a suitable sandbag; a free incision is then made over the centre of the popliteal space behind and the internal popliteal nerve is looked for and pulled aside (see I"ig. 134). The next structure which should be identified is the popliteal vein,, which should also be displaced to one side; should it be difficult to clearly define the vein, an opening should be made into the sac wall towards-