68 CLUB-FOOT. form, the front part of the foot is drawn up by the unbalanced action of the muscles in front of the leg; the heel is depressed, so that in bad cases the upper part of the instep may lie in actual contact with the anterior surface of the leg, whilst the patient walks upon the extreme point of the heel. In all these cases there is generally a tendency to some valgus deformity as well. TREATMENT.—As in all the other paralytic cases, it is quite easy to replace the foot in its normal position without the exercise of any force, as long as the affection is in its earlier stages; under these circum- stances the treatment must be directed on the one hand to retaining the foot in proper position, whilst, on the other, efforts are made to maintain or restore the functions of the paralysed muscles as much as possible. To meet the first indication a suitable splint should be applied; in children the one which we prefer is the simple metal splint with the connecting stout copper wire, which has already been described (see Fig. 26), and which can be readily applied by the nurse. As in the other cases, the splint should be taken off several times a day to allow of the employment of manipulations designed to stretch the muscles on the front of the leg, and to apply massage to those on the posterior surface. Besides the employment of massage to the calf muscles, the use of the Faradic current is very beneficial, whilst at night, and in the intervals between the application of the massage and galvanism, the splint should be re-applied. If these measures be carefully carried out in the early stages, there will seldom be any neces- sity for division of tendons. As the child grows up and learns to walk, a suitable splint adapted for that purpose should be employed. This should con- sist of the usual leg-irons taking a grasp from the upper part of the leg just below the knee, the irons running down on each side of the leg, and being fastened below into the heel of the boot. It should also be pro- vided with a hinge-joint opposite the ankle; this latter should have a stop so as to prevent the foot being bent upwards beyond a right angle, and it is well also, where there is considerable loss of power, to have some sort of artificial tendo AchilHs adapted to the apparatus (see Fig. 32). The most convenient arrangement is an elastic spring attached to the heel of the boot below, and to the posterior aspect of the band around the Fig. 32.—Boot for Use ik Talipes Cal- caneus. The india-rubber spring behind takes the place of the faulty calf muscles. The boot is often fitted with a stop at the hinge joint opposite the ankle so as to prevent the toes being raised unduly. {Hqffii.)