TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 243 nerve compressed is generally the musculo-spiral; the patient falls asleep or becomes insensible with the back of the upper arm resting against or hanging over the edge of a chair or table, and the result is that the sharp edge presses the musculo-spiral nerve against the shaft of the humerus, and produces a more or less temporary paralysis of that nerve. Some- times under similar circumstances other branches of the brachial plexus may be affected, as for example, when the patient sleeps with his hands behind his head, and the head of the humerus presses on the nerves in the axilla. This, however, is much more uncommon than compression of the musculo-spiral. Another example of rapid compression is seen in certain cases of fracture, in which a nerve trunk may be suddenly com- pressed against one of the fragments without being actually torn; this leads to temporary paralysis of the parts supplied by the affected nerve. Again, during parturitioti, temporary paralysis may be met with in the lower extremities of the mother, as the result of the pressure of the foetal head upon the sacral plexus; in the child there may be paralysis of the facial nerve from pressure of the forceps. (b) Gradual Traumatic Compression of Nerve Trunks.— Perhaps the best example of this form of compression is seen in what is known as crutch palsy; this is due to the long-continued use of ill-fitting crutches, and comes on slowly. It-occurs chiefly when the arm-pieces of the crutches are insufficiently padded, and particularly when the crutch is too long for the patient. The cause of the affection is probably a slowly develop- ing neuritis, leading to degeneration and atrophy of the nerve filaments. (c) Pathological Compression of Nerve Trunks.—When the compression of nerves is the result of morbid processes, the symptoms come on slowly. Perhaps the commonest example of this is compression of a nerve by the contraction of fibrous tissue during the healing of a wound, or by the callus surrounding a fracture, which may either stretch the nerve running over it, or may surround and press upon it. Similarly, tumours may compress nerves, and malignant tumours may actually destroy them. In pathological compression the result produced is due either to interference with the blood supply of the nerve (as occurs when the latter is stretched over some firm structure), resulting in fatty degeneration and disorganization of the nerve fibres; or it may be due to a neuritis set up by the pressure. 2. Compression of the Terminal Filaments of Nerves.— This generally results from some pathological process, and is most commonly due to involvement of the terminations of the nerves in cicatrices, or, more rarely, in malignant tumours of the skin. The sensory nerves are the ones essentially affected, and, as will be mentioned later, the entanglement of nerves in scars and the pressure thereby produced on them usually ends in the production of a neuritis spreading up to the trunk of the nerve. Symptoms.—However produced, compression of a large trunk nerve gives rise to symptoms which vary according as the nerve is sensory, motor, or mixed; in the latter case the sensory filaments are usually the first