INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. are pressed up against the nail; hence as a rule the affection occurs near the free end of the nail. It begins with slight pain and swelling, which impede walking, and then abrasion and ulceration soon occur and spread backwards along the lateral groove. In bad cases the suppuration is abundant and foetid, there is a good deal of swelling, and the granulations are exuberant. The condition is often a serious one, on account of the pain and lameness it induces, and also on account of the risk of lymphangitis. Treatment.—This will vary according to the stage of the disease, but in all cases what may be termed the hygiene of the foot, should be carefully attended to. The nails should be cut square, and their edges should project slightly beyond the soft parts; the feet should be kept thoroughly clean, the socks changed frequently, and the patient should wear well-fitting shoes or boots. If the case be seen before any ulceration has occurred, it sometimes suffices to introduce a minute pad of boracic lint beneath the nail so as to take off the pressure of its edge, the other points as to the hygiene of the foot being carefully attended to. This procedure is most likely to succeed when the nail is thick and well- developed ; when it is thin and papery it is of little use. If, however, ulceration has taken place, this plan will not suffice. In the later stages, various other methods are resorted to, but all, with one exception, are more or less ineffectual. Some surgeons content themselves with cauterizing the prominent granulations, either by the application of nitrate of silver or by dusting them over with crystals of nitrate of lead, and inter- posing a pad of dressing, a piece of tin-foil, etc., beneath the edge of the nail; others clip away the portion of the nail which is pressing on the skin—an exceedingly bad plan, as it really aggravates the trouble in the end—and others again remove half or the whole of the nail. If it be desired to remove the whole or one half of the nail, the patient is put under an anaesthetic— gas is generally sufficient—and then if one half of the nail is to be removed, one blade of a pair of sharp-pointed scissors is passed down in the middle line between the nail and the matrix right to the root, the nail is split down the centre, and the half on the side affected torn away by forceps. If the whole nail is to be removed, it is detached and torn off by forcible traction with a special pair of forceps termed " onychia forceps," one blade of which is thrust down between the nail and the matrix, well to the root of the nail in the middle line, and then on closing the blades the nail is firmly grasped between the blades and wrenched from its bed after being loosened by turning the forceps forcibly, first to one side and then to the other. None of these methods, however, are quite satisfactory. After removal of half or the whole of the nail recurrence of the trouble is very apt to take place as the fresh nail grows, and nothing short of the destruction of the matrix on the affected side of the toe is sufficient to prevent it. In some cases this may be done effectually after removal of the nail by care- fully paring away the matrix with a knife, but it is very uncertain, as