TRUE ANEURYSM. will be indicated when describing the treatment of special aneurysms. When instrumental pressure is employed, the tourniquet should not be kept on for more than five or six hours at a time, and the position of the instrument should be varied during that period. If it be kept on longer than this there is a considerable risk of injuring the soft parts, or even the artery itself, and cases are known in which aneurysms have formed later on at the seat of pressure, owing to the bruising of the artery caused by the instrument. In the abdomen also the pressure on the intestine has led to sloughing and perforation of the bowel. Should the femoral artery require instrumental compression, it is well to have two instruments—one which exerts pressure over the brim of the pelvis, and another which com- presses the vessel against the shaft of the bone ; after the first instrument has been in position for an hour or so, the second one may be screwed down and the first relaxed. In order to relieve the pain, it is well in all cases in which there is no renal affection to put the patient well under opium, and in some cases where instrumental pressure is used and the pain is excessive the patient may have to be kept lightly under the influence of chloroform. The preliminary preparation of the skin at the seat of compression is the same as for digital compression (vide supra). When, in cases such as the femoral artery, the compression, either digital or instrumental, is given up, a bag containing sand or shot may be laid over the artery so as to diminish the flow of blood through it, and thus to prolong the effect of the compression. If coagulation does not take place the compression may be renewed daily for two or three days, for, as we have already said, experience shows that an aneurysm may be completely cured by pressure which is very intermittent. It is not, however, necessary to say more about this question of compression, because, with the exception of pressure on the distal side of aneurysms, such as those of the abdo- minal aorta, the method cannot be recommended in comparison with the safe and satisfactory methods of ligature which are practised at the present ■day. (3) Galvano-puncture.—This method is only resorted to when there is no chance of employing one of the others already mentioned. Hence its use is generally confined to cases of sacculated aortic aneurysms which project externally, or for large innominate aneurysms. The object of the procedure is to cause the deposition of clot in the sac by the •direct action of the galvanic current on the blood, and in order to carry it out several needles connected with the positive pole of a constant battery •are introduced into the sac. The negative pole is connected with a large wet pad, which should be applied to the skin in the vicinity of the aneurysm. The skin of course must be scrupulously purified before the needles are introduced. It is best not to introduce both poles into the sac; a large amount of .gas is disengaged at the negative pole, and the clot which forms there is