GENU VALGUM. inches or more, provided that consoh'dation has occurred in the bones. It is, however, not so necessary to wait for complete consolidation in adults as it is in children. Generally this will occur while the patient is lying in bed after the operation, and if care be taken not to allow the entire weight to be borne upon the limb too soon and if suitable hygienic and other measures be employed, there is litde risk of the deformity recurring. Osteotomy.—Various forms of operative procedure have been employed in these cases. Those in which the bone is broken without producing an external wound may be at once dismissed as unsuitable ; it is impossible to gauge the amount of injury done, or the exact seat of the fracture produced, while, considering the great safety of the ordinary operation, there is not the least advantage in its use. Amongst the open operations, the following are most frequently performed: division of the shaft of the femur; division of the bone just above the epiphyseal line (known as Macewen's operation); an oblique section through the internal condyle of the femur which is then made to slip upwards (or Ogston's operation); division of the tibia below the upper epiphysis; or division of both femur and tibia. Of these, two, viz., division of the shaft of the femur itself, and Ogston's operation, may at the present time be excluded. Formerly Ogston's operation was a good deal practised, but it is based upon the theory that the essential factor in the production of the disease is an elongation of the internal condyle; this we now know to be wrong, and, as the operation interferes with the knee joint, which is necessarily opened in performing it, it has been found much less satisfactory than the division of the femur introduced by Macewen. We shall therefore here only consider three operations, namely, division of the femur just above the epiphysis, or Macewen's operation; division of the tibia below its upper epiphysis; and the combined operation of division of both tibia and femur (see Fig. 49). From a consideration of the pathological changes present, it is evident that correction of the deformity in bad cases can only be obtained by the combined operation, and it may be laid down as a general rule that when the interval between the malleoli is as much as six inches or more, this is the procedure that should be adopted. In the less severe cases, however, good results may be obtained by dividing either of the bones alone, and as a matter of practice it is found that it is immaterial whether the femur or the tibia be selected for division. Pro- bably a neater result is obtained by division of the tibia. The femur is, however, the bone most usually divided, but the result of this operation (Macewen's) is often to produce a very unsightly bowing outwards and forwards in the lower third of the bone. (a) Macewen's osteotomy.— In dividing the femur by Macewen's method, the section is made from the inner side, and the deformity is rectified, partly by squeezing together the bone on the inner side of the femur, and partly by opening out an angle on the outer side. Some