164 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. an ulcer with a reddish base devoid of granulations, indolent, and with very little thickening, either about the base or the edges. Sometimes the latter are sharply cut and occasionally the epithelium makes an attempt to spread over the surface of the ulcer. The condition is a true cancer, the cells, however, not being squamous epithelium but smaller elongated cells, and the tumour tends to break down and ulcerate almost as fast as it grows. The disease goes on steadily if left to itself, and gradually destroys all the tissues that it encounters in its spread; its rate of growth is exceed- ingly slow. It may occur on any part of the body, but its most common seat is the face. The glands do not become affected. Treatment.—The best treatment of rodent ulcer wherever feasible is excision of the growth. This should be particularly free; it is remarkable with what readiness the disease recurs. The incision for its removal should not, unless in quite small ulcers, be less than an inch beyond its margin in every direction, and should also extend well beneath the under surface of the growth. When it is possible to excise a rodent ulcer at quite an early period, the result is very satisfactory. In the later stages, however, especially when the ulcer is about the eye, it may be impossible to excise it completely, or to get far enough beyond it, and then recurrence takes place immediately. When complete excision is impossible, it is best to remove as much as is feasible and to destroy the rest with caustics, such as chloride of zinc paste or sulphuric acid. The chloride of zinc is made into a paste by mixing one part of the drug, four parts of flour, and a twentieth part of extract of opium with sufficient water to make a stiff paste; the opium is added to relieve pain. The paste is then rolled out into a cake of suitable size to cover the raw surface to which it is to be applied, and about a quarter of an inch in thickness. It should be left on for from twenty-four to forty- eight hours if the patient can tolerate it; in that time it will destroy the soft parts over the area to which it is applied for a depth varying from half an inch to an inch and a half. After the caustic action has ceased, hot boracic fomentations are applied until the slough has separated; boracic ointment of full strength is then employed until granulation is com- plete, when the quarter-strength ointment should be substituted until cicatrization has taken place. If the sore left be large, it may be skin- grafted after granulation is complete. Should any points have escaped the action of the chloride paste, they may be attacked by packing firmly over them small pieces of moist gauze covered with the solid chloride. Although this caustic is most efficacious in its action, the pain it gives rise to is often almost intolerable, and the patient frequently requires to be kept fully under the influence of morphine. Sulphuric acid is also a rapid and efficient caustic, and is valuable in the smaller and more superficial varieties of rodent ulcer that cannot be satisfactorily excised; its action is more rapid and more localized than that of the chloride of zinc, and the pain is not so intense. It can either