FLAT FOOT. 3« it is well, when the pain begins to subside, to put the foot up in plaster of Paris with the deformity rather over-corrected; that is to say, with the arch of the instep somewhat exaggerated. The foot should be kept in the plaster for about three weeks, or at any rate until the acute inflammatory condition has subsided. As soon as the acuter symptoms have passed off, complete rest may be given up, and massage and douching substituted for it, so as to strengthen the muscles of the foot. Exercises.—Suitable exercises are also of considerable importance. It will be found that when the patient raises himself upon the toes, the short muscles of the foot are brought into action, and the arch of the foot is markedly increased; exercise of this sort is of the greatest value. The patient should stand with the feet together, and the toes pointing directly forward, and should then gently and slowly raise himself upon tiptoe, bending the knees sHghtly at the same time. This exercise repeated for a certain number of times—at first from ten to twenty twice daily, and later on for from five to ten minutes at a time two or Fig. 23.—Whitman's Spring for Flat Foot._ A. The splint is seen from the inner side applied to the foot; it shows the prolongation upwards. In B the splint is seen from below, and shows the extent of the spring in front, behind, and externally. three times a day—will do much to restore the arch of the foot. Another exercise of considerable value is the following. After the patient has raised himself upon tiptoe in the manner just mentioned, the knees are separated, while the feet remain in their original position, so that the lower extremity forms a letter O; in other words, a sort of artificial genu varum is formed. This throws the weight of the body upon the outer border of the foot, and so tends to increase the arch of the instep. A third exercise, somewhat similar to the above, consists in standing upon the outer border of the foot with the feet together, the soles being directed inwards towards one another. These exercises should not be carried to the extent of tiring the patient. They should be begun very gradually, and steadily and slowly increased, and it is better to practise them several times a day for a very short time than to have them carried out for too long at a single sitting. For a week or two after the plaster casing has been left off the patient should be content with these exercises, which should be combined with massage and rest with the limb in the tailor-position; no attempts should be made at walking.