299 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURYSM. untouched. This is a matter of considerable importance in a vein such as the femoral, as ligature of it might cause oedema of the limb, and lead to a long and tedious convalesence. Varicose Aneurysm.—The treat- ment here is practically the same as for aneurysmal varix, with the excep- tion that in all cases it is well to open the sac and to turn out the clots. When the vein is large, as for instance the femoral, the proper treatment is to control the circulation, expose the sac, lay it open, turn out the clots, tie the artery above and below, and any arterial branches which may be connected with the aneurysm (see Fig. 96, jB), and then to sew up the opening in the sac with a Hagedorn needle and fine catgut. In this way the vein is left undisturbed, blood escapes from it into the aneurysmal sac but quickly coagulates and leads to obliteration of the sac, while at the same time there is as a rule no interference with the flow of blood through the vein; if the vein be a small and unimportant one, it also should be ligatured; in fact, the whole aneurysm may then be dissected out. Of course, even in the case of the femoral vein, there need be no hesitation should it be absolutely essential to tie it. If the wound be kept aseptic, gangrene will not occur, but nevertheless a very marked and prolonged oedema of the leg may result and therefore ligature of the vein should, if possible, be avoided. It is not always necessary to open the sac, but if there be any reason to believe that branches come off from the artery between the points at which the ligatures are applied (as in the case of the femoral opposite the origin of the profunda), this is more conveniently ascertained, and the branches are more easily got at if the sac be opened than if an attempt be made to tie them without disturbing it. Such an attempt is very difficult on account of the matting together of the tissues, and may very likely end in injury to the vein elsewhere, or, in the example before us, in injury to the profunda vein. On the other hand, if the sac be opened the orifices of the branches can be seen, and by introducing a bougie or a probe into them they can be readily isolated with a dissector, and a ligature passed round them without including or injuring other structures. Quite apart from the question of branches, it is best when the aneurysmal sac is large to open the sac, and introduce a bougie into the ends of the artery, so as to render its separation from the vein and surrounding structures easier and safer. a V a V Fig. 96.—Diagram showing methods of TREATMENT FOR ANEURYSMAL VaKIX AND Varicose Aneurysm.—A, Treatment of aneur- ysmal varix by ligature of artery n above and below communication with the vein v. B, Treatment of varicose aneurysm by ligature of artery above and below, and incision of aneurysm. In neither case need the vein be tied as a rule, except when the vein is small.