261 NEURITIS. the seat of pain as possible, or higher up along the course of the nerve, is most likely to be uniformly successful. The drug should not all be injected at one spot, but should be distributed, a drop or two at a time, over the tissues around the nerve. The cocaine acts locally upon the nerve affected, and thus often produces immediate, though temporary relief; eucaine may also be used in somewhat larger doses (|-^rd grains). When the pain is very severe, and the affection comparatively widespread, it may be necessary to have recourse to subcutaneous injections of morphine, and these are likely to be more certain and more lasting in their effect than cocaine. Great care, however, must always be taken in employing a remedy of this kind to avoid the possibility of setting up a morphine habit; nothing is worse than to allow a patient to practise the injection for himself, or to have the drug injected whenever he feels the inclination for it. Phenacetin and atttipyrin, in doses of from five to ten grains every four or six hours, are also of use in some cases. Exalgine, in 2-3 grain doses, is especially useful in neuritis affecting the face or head. Apart from this necessity for relieving the acute pain, the treatment is precisely the same as that for other forms of acute inflammation (see Part I., Chap. I.). 2. In chronic neuritis, which either follows an acute attack or has been chronic from the first, the treatment consists partly in the employment of constitutional refnedies, according to the diathesis of the patient—a point already dwelt upon on page 260—and partly in the employment of local measures which principally take the form of counter-irritation, followed, as the case improves, by massage, friction, and particularly galvanism. The best form of counter-irritation is either a blister or, still better, the actual cautery (Corrigan's) applied over the course of the nerve. If a blister be employed it should be long and narrow, and should be applied with its long axis corresponding to that of the nerve. It should be repeated once a week if necessary, and it is well to prolong the effect by the application of savin or resin ointment to the blistered surface. The method of applying blisters or the actual cautery has been fully described in Part I., p. 18. Galvanism is also of considerable value in the more chronic cases. It is best to employ an ascending current, that is to say, the negative pole of the battery is applied to the spine or some indifferent point, whilst the positive electrode is placed over the nerve; no interruptions should be made in the circuit. The current should at first be very weak, and should only be increased very gradually; if it aggravate the pain it should be at once discontinued. When benefit seems to be accruing from its employment, the current may be applied daily for from twenty minutes to half an hour at a time, its strength being gradually increased. After the pain has disappeared, massage should be employed, and this may also with advantage be carried out in the direction of the affected nerve trunk. A good way of combining these various procedures is to order the patient to take frequently a bath as hot as he can bear it, and