HAMMER TOE. 13 Fig. io. — T-Shaped Splint for Hammer Toe. A greater amount of pressure over the first interphalangeal joint may be obtained if necessary by inserting a pad of lint or wool between is secured to an apparatus designed to prevent a recurrence of the flexion. A convenient form is a T-shaped splint (see Fig. 10), the horizontal limb passing transversely beneath the sole of the foot, at about the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and being secured there by means of a strap or band, while the vertical part passes underneath the toe and extends as far as its tip; the splint should be v/ell padded, and the toe strapped down to it. This procedure is only of use in the milder forms; in the more severe ones, particularly those that are congenital in origin, the toe will not come straight, even after division of the ligaments and tendons, for the skin and all the other structures the tip ^f thi toe and the splint, are permanently shortened, and the result of attempts to straighten the joint is simply to dislocate the base of the second phalanx below the head of the first. In severe cases also the articular surfaces are so much altered that, even if they were brought properly into contact, an imperfect result would be obtained. In the slighter cases, however, especially in the earlier stages of the acquired forms, tenotomy of the lateral ligaments and extension may suffice to bring the ends of the bones into good position. The treatment for the co- existing hallux valgus (see p. 16) should never be neglected, as it is most important to prevent the pressure of the first toe on the second. No permanent good is Hkely to accrue where the hammer toe is straightened and the hallux valgus left untreated. When there is a tendency to flexion in all the toes, a special splint with bands passing over the dorsal surface of each toe will be required (see Fig. 11). Later on, when the tendency to flexion has been greatly reduced, a simple and efficient splint may be made by attaching a stout glove-finger of suitable size to a piece of whalebone or flexible steel, covered with chamois leather; this lies on the dorsum of the foot beneath the stocking, and is fastened by a broad tape round the instep. The toe goes into the glove-finger (see Fig. 12). Some form of splint must be worn for a long time, in fact, it can probably never be entirely dispensed with, and the question arises whether it is really worth the patient's while to submit to such a method of treatment. Without long-continued splinting, treatment by tenotomy and extension is i J Fig. II.—Splint for all the Toes. This is used when there is contraction of several toes.