THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 75 either resulting from rickets or from injury, the treatment must, of course, be first of all directed to remedying the osseous deformity as much as possible. Thus, in ricketty cases, should the deformity be extreme, it may be necessary to divide the bones of the leg so as to bring them straight (see Chap. IV.). In traumatic valgus occurring after Pott's fracture, it will be necessary to perform an operation to restore the proper position of the bones of the leg, if such be found feasible. This matter, however, will be much better discussed in Part III. in speaking of Pott's fracture. TALIPES EQUINO-VALGUS. It is not uncommon for a certain amount of equinus to be combined with talipes valgus—a condition which is known by the term talipes equino- valgus. It is perhaps more frequently met with as a congenital than as an acquired deformity. It does not, however, require any special description here, because the remarks that we shall make immediately about equino- varus may be applied equally to talipes equino-valgus. As in the treatment of equino-varus, the valgus deformity should be corrected before the tendo Achillis is divided. TALIPES VARUS. Pure talipes varus is exceedingly rare, the great majority of the cases being combined with equinus, the condition then being spoken of as talipes equino-varus. True varus may, however, result from infantile paralysis, affecting only the peronei muscles and leaving the tibiales and the anterior muscles of the leg unaffected. It may also result from cicatricial contraction, or from badly united fractures of the leg. The treatment of this affection is the same as that of the varus deformity in talipes equino-varus, which we shall now consider. TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS. This form of club-foot is the most common and the most important of all those with which the surgeon has to deal. The foot is in a position of adduction, the inner side being shortened and drawn up, whilst there is a marked lateral flexion of the mid-tarsal joint, the anterior part of the foot being drawn inwards. Sometimes the displacement of the front of the foot is so marked that its inner border forms an acute angle at the mid-tarsal joint. Besides this deformity the heel is drawn up as the result of the shortening of the calf muscles. The vertical plane of the whole of the foot is altered, the under surface of the os calcis looking somewhat inwards instead of directly downwards. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The condition may be congenital or acquired. The acquired form may be due to infantile paralysis; to some spastic condition of the muscles, as in spastic paraplegia; to