229 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. before they are united; if there be any doubt, the muscle in question can be made to contract by applying the Faradic current to it; the tendon thus acted upon is then easily identified. After the tendon has been united, the wound should be stitched up care- fully so as to get union by first intention over the spot at which the division has occurred. If necessary, a catgut drain may be placed in one corner of the wound so as to avoid the possibility of its becoming dis- tended with serum or blood, which would materially interfere with union. When the wound is very dirty when first seen, a drainage tube should, however, be employed. The ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied, and the limb is fixed on a splint in such a position as to keep the tendons fully relaxed. In the case of a wound on the front of the wrist, the upper arm, forearm and hand may be fixed in a trough of poroplastic material or gutta-percha, which is moulded to fit the limb, whilst the elbow, fingers, and wrist are kept fully flexed. After-treatment.—This position of extreme flexion may be gradually relaxed by taking off" the splint every two or three days, and increasing its angles slightly each time. In about a fortnight the patient should be encouraged to move the fingers, and gentle passive movement may also be begun. By that time it will be found that, on stretching the fingers, some adhesions have formed, but they are soft, and readily give way. It is of course essential not to use force enough to tear through the union in the tendon, but where the stitching has been done according to the plan recommended above, there is not much fear of such an accident. From this time onward, constant movement of the fingers by the patient himself, and the employment of passive movement once or twice a day, gradually increasing in range and length of time, must be regularly employed. Very considerable movement and sometimes complete restoration of function will result if this treatment be carefully and assiduously carried out. (b) Old injuries.—When a considerable time has elapsed after the receipt of the injury and union has not occurred, it is often extremely difficult to secure a satisfactory result, whether there was in the first instance an open wound or a subcutaneous rupture. The only possible chance of doing so here lies in operation, but even then there is often great difficulty in finding and bringing the divided ends properly into apposition. Secondary tendon suture.—The following is the best method for these cases; for purposes of illustration we shall take division of a tendon in front of the wrist, where no union has resulted, and where the ends of the tendon are not even adherent to the scar. An incision should be made directly in the line of the tendon; if there be no scar tissue, it is well to make it curved, so that the incision in the skin and fascia does not corre- spond to the point in the tendon at which suture is to be practised (see Fig. 80); there will then be no adhesion between the line of suture and the scar. Very extensive dissection is often required to expose the divided ends. In the example we are considering, the lower portion of the tendon will be