23 METATARSALGIA, OR MORTON'S DISEASE. The operation usually done is removal of the head of the metatarsal; the great objection to it, however, is that this structure is one of the most important factors in proper progression, and its removal will there- fore be likely to seriously interfere with the usefulness of the foot. A perfectly good result, as far as position is concerned, is obtained by removing the base of the first phalanx, and this is the procedure that we would recommend in those advanced cases in which one of the severer methods of operative treatment is called for. The operation is readily done through an incision about an inch in length, parallel and a little internal to the inner border of the extensor tendon. The periosteum is detached from the first phalanx by a suit- able rugine, and the base of the bone is then nipped off with a strong pair of cutting pliers. This at once allows the toe to be brought straight without any tension. The wound should be stitched up without a drainage tube, the usual antiseptic dressings applied, and the toe fixed by means of a plantar splint so padded that the toe is somewhat extended. When the wound has healed, the great toe and front part of the foot should be put up in a silicate bandage, and while this is being applied the arch of the foot should be restored as much as possible by bending the metatarsal bones downwards, so that while the parts are being kept at rest for proper consolidation to occur, the arch of the foot is also well supported. After about six weeks the apparatus may be left off, and the patient, provided with a Whitman's spring (see Fig. 23), is allowed to walk about. The results are usually very good; there is no pain on walking, and locomotion is perfectly satisfactory. METATARSALGIA, OR MORTON'S DISEASE. This is an important condition, presenting many points of interest^ and was first fully described by Morton, of Philadelphia, after whom the disease is named. It consists essentially of a painful affection of the foot, the seat of the pain being usually in the neighbourhood of the heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The pain, which is of a neuralgic character, is referred to the plantar aspect; it may be so severe that the patient is entirely unable to walk, or to bear any pressure upon the sole at that point. Besides this, it is generally impossible for the patient to wear narrow shoes, and in some cases boots or shoes of any kind cannot be tolerated. It is generally noticed that as soon as the shoes are taken off and the foot elevated, the pain diminishes or ceases entirely. A further characteristic of the disease is that callosities form upon the sole beneath the head of the fourth metatarsal; sometimes they also form beneath the head of the third, or even the second, and then, to avoid pain, the patient bears his weight upon the inner border of the foot, and avoids putting any pressure upon the outer side at all. These callosities, besides adding considerably to the pain, aie liable to attacks of inflammation, which