44 FLAT FOOT. be obtained by mechanical means in cases which have reached this degree of severity. Excision of the Head of the Astragalus.—Perhaps the best operation on the whole is the removal of the head of the astragalus alone, and in most cases we prefer either this or Ogston's operation. It can be readily done by the same incision as that just described for Ogston's operation, and it is not necessarily followed by anchylosis. The disadvantage of the operation is that, as a result of the absence of anchylosis, there is a tendency for depression of the arch to recur, and, therefore, after the operation a Whitman's spring must be constantly worn. Stokes' Operation.—In order to overcome the objection entailed by the rigidity of the transverse tarsal joint left after Ogston's operation. Stokes has devised an operation in which a wedge-shaped piece of bone is removed from the side of the neck of the astragalus. The foot is then forcibly rectified and kept in position until union has occurred. The operation is, however, not a particularly successful one, for in long-standing cases, where there has been some amount of dislocation at the transverse tarsal joint, the mal-position is not rectified, and the operation gives practically no increase in the mobility of the joint. Eemoval of a wedge-shaped piece of the Tarsus.—In cases of the most severe type the only chance of a successful result is by removal of a wedge-shaped piece of the tarsus, the base of the wedge being on the inner side of the foot, and the apex at the outer. This operation is performed in a precisely similar manner to that which will be described for bad cases of talipes varus, except that in the latter case the base of the wedge is on the outer side of the foot, and we may therefore refer to the description there given (see p. 91). As a result of this operation the bones become anchy- losed, but, as has already been said, in speaking of Ogston's operation, the patient is really very much more comfortable if the foot has been brought into accurate position, notwithstanding the anchylosis. Other operations, such as excision of the astragalus, or of various tarsal bones, have been performed, but they have nothing to recommend them in preference to the procedures already described.