INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. , i8l course of a few days, and the swelling gradually goes down, though it may be some weeks before it entirely disappears. Should suppuration occur, the glands become fixed, the skin reddened over them, and fluctuation is evident. As a rule, suppuration does not take place till the sixth or the seventh day; it usually results in a circumscribed abscess, but sometimes, especially in the neck, a diffuse cellulitis may be set up. Treatment.—The treatment, in the early stage before suppuration has commenced, is that of acute inflammation (see Part I., Chap. I.), and in addition to this, any primary focus which is giving rise to irritation of the glands should be treated. Inflamed ulcers should be disinfected, boils should be freely opened, and so on. Warm fomentations (see Part I., p. 12) should be applied over the gland, the parts kept at rest, if necessary on a splint, and the general treatment carefully attended to. When an abscess forms in connection with the gland it should be opened like any other acute abscess (see Part I., p. 26). Besides simply incising the abscess, however, it is well to scrape away the remains of the gland, because there may originally have been several foci of suppuration in it, and although the main one is opened, the others may subsequently enlarge and keep up the suppuration. Hence an incision large enough to admit the finger should be made, and if any portions of the gland be felt at the bottom of the wound, they can easily be enucleated either by the finger alone or by the aid of a sharp spoon; it is not necessary to make an elaborate dissection for the purpose. Having thoroughly opened the abscess and removed the remains of the gland, the cavity should be drained in the usual manner and the ordinary dressings applied. As a rule, healing will occur in the course of a few days. This does not apply to the acute form of adenitis due to venereal causes, which will be described presently. CHRONIC ADENITIS may follow on the acute form, and it is not uncommonly associated with uncleanliness, lice, eczema, ulcers, etc. If the enlargement persist for some time, or increase in size, it will frequently be found, on excising the affected gland, that the condition is a tuberculous one; secondary tuberculous infection is very prone to occur in these chronic cases. Treatment.—If a primary source of irritation can be found, it should at once be removed. For example, if there be an eczema, steps should be taken to cure it; if there be an open ulcer, it should be treated by appropriate methods; should the condition arise from lice or uncleanliness, the removal of the cause is all that is called for. If the glandular enlarge- ment be simple it will then subside without anything special in the way of local treatment; at most some placebo^ such as belladonna ointment, may be applied, the part of course being meanwhile placed at rest. The use of iodine should be avoided. Where, however, the enlargement of the glands continues or increases after the removal of all primary sources of irritation, there will be strong grounds for suspicion that the condition is tuberculous, and special treatment (see p. 185) must be adopted accordingly.