340 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. nerve will be seen crossing the vessel in front, and when this is drawn upwards the artery accompanied by a vein on each side will be brought into view (see Fig. 114). It must be remembered that it is not at all uncommon for the brachial artery to divide into its radial and ulnar branches at this point, or even higher up the arm, and cases have happened in which one of these two branches has been mistaken for the main trunk, with a disappointing result. Hence, if the artery appear to be very small, or, if the bleeding or pulsation do not stop when the vessel is tied, the surgeon should always suspect the possibility of the artery having bifurcated higher up and should look for the other branch of the vessel towards the inner side. (6) At the Bend of the Elbow.—The brachial artery may also require ligature at the bend of the elbow ; this is generally done for aneurysmal varix or punctured wounds. The vessel here lies about the middle of the front of the elbow, being crossed in front by the bicipital fascia, which in its turn supports the median basilic vein. Externally to the vessel lies the tendon of the biceps, whilst a little to its inner side is the median nerve. The vessel is tied through a longitudinal incision or one slightly oblique from above downwards and outwards over the course of the artery, and having its centre opposite the middle of the bend of the elbow. The median basilic vein with the branches of the Fig. 115.—Ligature of the Left Brachial at the Bend of the Elbow.— F. Bicipital fascia. A. Brachial artery. B. Biceps tendon. N. Median nerve. B.V. Median basilic vein. V. Venas comites. internal cutaneous nerve will generally be seen when the skin is divided ; these should be pulled inwards and the bicipital fascia running downwards and inwards then comes into view. The upper part of this structure should be divided by a vertical incision, but it is usually not necessary to divide it completely. Immediately beneath will be found the brachial artery along with its vente comites, somewhat overlapped by the biceps, muscle (see Fig. 115). Ligature of the Hadial Artery.—This artery runs a superficial course down the outer side of the forearm, being overlapped above by the supinator longus muscle. The line of the vessel is from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the prominent part of the trapezium. The vessel may be ligatured at any part of its course, the most frequent situation being, however, the upper third. In that situation the artery lies Upon tlie supinator brevis, and lower down upon the pronator radii tcres^ and. is