39 FLAT FOOT. Whitman's Spring.—When, however, the tenderness in the sole has almost completely disappeared the patient may be allowed to walk about with a suitable support in the boot. The best form of this is Whitman's spring, the so-called "artificial instep" (see Fig. 23), which should be made of steel or aluminium; the latter is preferable because there is often considerable sweating in flat foot, and aluminium does not rust as steel does. The apparatus consists of a spring moulded to the arch of the instep, whilst the foot is held in its proper position. It fits the arch of the foot accurately, extending forwards almost to the balls of the toes, outwards to the outer border of the foot, and backwards to just in front of the tuberosity of the os calcis. On the inner side it is enlarged upwards and extends well on to the inner side of the foot. With a properly made spring, the weight of the foot is not borne upon the A B c Fig. 24.—Boots for Flat Foot. In A is shown the obliquity of the Iieel as seen from the back. In B the boot is seen from below and both the obliquity of the heel and the filling up of the waist or arch of the instep by carrying the heel right forward to meet the sole are shown. This prolongation of the heel forwards is oblique in the same direc- tion as the heel; it is represented by the unshaded area in front of the heel in C, which is a view of the inner side of the boot. (Modified from Hoffa.) apparatus at all until the arch begins to sink; the foot rests upon its normal bases of support, namely, the under surfaces of the heads of the metatarsal bones and the tuberosities of the os calcis, and the spring only comes into action when the arch of the foot sinks unduly. These springs should be accurately fitted, and each one should be carefully made and fitted to the individual who has to wear it. Instrument makers generally keep a number in stock and sell them to patients without ascertaining whether they fit properly or not. With a badly fitting apparatus the spring either extends too far forwards or backwards, and causes considerable pain, so that the patient is often entirely unable to wear it. When, however, they fit properly the patient soon becomes accustomed to them and cannot do without them. Sometimes they cause a little discomfort at first, and, until the patient has become