CONTRACTIONS OF THE FINGERS. 25 bone which is unduly depressed; in most cases this is the fourth, but sometimes it is necessary to remove the head of the third as well. The operation is a simple one, and is performed by making a longi- tudinal incision upon the dorsal aspect of the foot, over the head of the affected metatarsal bone, parallel to but rather on one side of the extensor tendon. The edges of the incision are held aside, the tendon hooked out of the way, and the soft parts are separated from the head of the bone by means of a suitable periosteum detacher. The neck of the metatarsal is then cut through by cutting pliers or a saw, and after division of the ligaments attaching it to the neighbouring bones, the head is removed. The patient will require to lie up for about three weeks after the operation, and it is essential that subsequently he shall wear properly constructed boots—boots, as has just been said, made to fit a plaster cast of the foot, so as to give it support in every direction. Should flat foot be present he must also be fitted with an artificial support to the instep. CONTRACTIONS OF THE FINGERS. The majority of contractions that are met with in the fingers are acquired. A not very uncommon condition, which is congenital or hereditary, is one in which the Httle finger is flexed, and is in a position very similar to that assumed by a hammer toe. The finger is flexed at the first interphalangeal joint whilst the second and third phalanges are in the same straight line, or the terminal phalanx joint may be somewhat hyper-extended. TREATMENT.—The conditions may or may not call for treatment, according to the degree of deformity present. In slight cases it passes practically unnoticed, and does not cause any inconvenience. When, however, the deformity is extreme, or when it is necessary to remedy it in order to enable the patient to carry out some particular form of manual labour, and especially when the right hand is affected, the treatment should be conducted practically on lines identical with that recommended for hammer toe (see p. 12). In the slighter cases division of the anterior and lateral ligaments may be performed, and the finger afterwards kept on a splint for a considerable time. The latter should at first be worn both night and day, and then, after the lapse of from four to six weeks, it may be left off during the day, and a narrow posterior splint applied during the night. The results, however, are generally very unsatisfactory; the deformity being congenital, unless treatment be commenced at a very early age, the joint surfaces are so altered that restoration of function is rarely perfect, and it is quite a question whether it is worth the patient's while to go through a prolonged course of treatment by splints when there is a great chance of the deformity recurring. The simplest plan in these cases is to perform an operation similar to that employed for the cure of hammer toe, namely, the removal of