INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 221 of the second form of tuberculous teno-synovitis. Formerly various other methods, such as compression or the injection of iodine, were employed, or in some cases of hygroma of the wrist the cavity was drained antiseptically after splitting the annular ligament; but none of them are as satisfactory as the one just mentioned. (b) Teno-synovitis without "rice bodies."—In the second form of tuberculous teno-synovitis the synovial membrane is much thickened and pulpy, and this condition is often secondary to diseases of bones or joints in the neighbourhood, or to chronic abscesses, though sometimes it is a primary affection. The patients are usually young adults from i8 to 25 years of age, and the tendon sheaths chiefly affected are those about the hand and instep. In the hand the common sheath of the flexors, or those of the fingers or thumb are most often affected; the sheaths of the extensors are also frequently attacked. The disease generally begins in the tendon sheath, and may be confined to it for a considerable time, but the tendon often becomes affected eventually, and may ultimately be completely eaten through by the granulation tissue. Abscesses frequently form, make their way to the skin and burst; in other cases the disease may extend to the joint over which the tendon passes. The condition may follow upon some previous inflammation, or may come on insidiously, and in the latter case the first thing that the patient usually notices is difficulty in movement and the presence of a diffuse, ill-defined, soft swelling parallel with the tendon; in some situations, as for example at the front of the wrist, this swelling may be hour-glass in shape. The mass is movable laterally along with the tendon, but not longitudinally. It is elastic and semi-fluctuating, but unless there be actual suppuration true fluctuation is absent. The movements of the tendons are impeded, and later on there will be contraction of the fingers, or even solution of continuity of the tendons. Treatment.—Operative.—Excision of the affected sheath or sheaths is by far the best treatment. This of course must be done strictly anti- septically, and the operation required is usually an extensive one. The treatment must be as thorough as in the case of an arthrectomy for tuberculous joint mischief. The incisions must be so planned that the sheath or sheaths are fully exposed over the whole of the affected area. In the case of the extensor tendons, for instance, a flap with its convexity tMiiiii'iSfflMntinTiiii Fig. 77.—Gland Separator or Fine Dissector. One end is a very fine dissector with which delicate worlt, such as the separation of the tendon sheath from the sur- rounding parts, can be e.isily done ; the other is bent and is probe pointed and serves to pull aside the structures thus isolated. to one side is raised from the back of the hand so as to expose the whole swelling. The tendon sheath is then carefully isolated from the surrounding parts, and the whole of the disease is cut away with scissors or the knife.