304 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. (a) Ligature of the artery in close proximity to the sac; this is com- monly known as " Anel's operation " (see Fig. 97, A). {/)) Ligature of the artery at such a distance from the sac that at least one branch intervenes between it and the ligature; this is usually- known as the " Hunterian operation " (see Fig. 97, B). (c) Ligature of the artery or its maiti branches on the distal side of the aneurysm; this is known as " Brasdor's or Wardrop's operation " (see Fig. 97, C). (d) Incision of the sac, evacuation of the clots and ligature of the artery above and below the orifice of comniunicatioti with the anairysm ; this is often spoken of as the "old operation" (see Fig. 97, D). Fig. 97.—Methods of applying a Ligature to an Aneurysm.— A. Anel's operation. B. Hunterian ligature. C. Distal ligature—Brasdor's and Wardrop's operation. D. The "old" operation; the portion between the ligatures (including the aneurysm) is dissected away. The arrows show the direction of the blood stream. (2) Compression of the arterial trunk, which may be either digital or instruinental, and may be applied either on the proximal or the distal side of the aneurysm. (3) Galvano-puncture by means of needles introduced into the sac and connected with the poles of a constant current battery. (4) The introduction of foreign bodies into the sac. (1) Ligature of the Artery.—In applying a ligature to an artery for aneurysm various points must be carefully attended to if success is to be obtained. The essential points are, firstly, the determination of the exact situation at which the ligature should be applied; secondly, the method of applying it; and thirdly, the material of which the ligature should be composed. Special reference must also be made to the risks of secondary haemorrhage and gangrene. After discussing these we shall pro- ceed to describe the various operations for ligature in the order given above; we shall then describe the other three methods of treatment. The Point at which the Ligature should be applied.—Apart from the old operation of opening the sac, turning out the clots and tying the artery