362 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. the inner side, so as to avoid it if possible. Tiie sac is then freely incised, the clots turned out, and the artery tied above and below. This can readily be done if a bougie be introduced through the orifice of the vessel so as to distend it; it can then be easily felt, and there is less likelihood of injury to the vein. A full-sized bougie, about No. 12, fits the lumen of the artery fairly well, and it should be pushed up through the opening in the sac until it is felt in the vessel above it, which is then cleared and tied ; the bougie is next introduced into the distal portion of the vessel, which is similarly treated. When this has been done the vein is easily identified above and below, and with a little care it can be peeled off the sac, after which the whole of the latter should be removed en Hoc. Some of the articular branches of the knee will probably open into the sac, and if these can be recognized they should be tied before the tourniquet is removed, as otherwise the collateral circulation through them may be very free, and considerable bleeding will occur. Fig. 134.—Ligature of the Right Popliteai, through the Ham.— I.G. Inner head of gastrocnemius. B. Tendon of Biceps. V. Popliteal vein. O.G. Outer head of gastrocnemius. S.S. Short saphena vein. N. Internal popliteal nerve. A. Popliteal artery. F. F'ascia lata. After the tourniquet is taken off, five to ten minutes should be allowed to elapse before the wound is closed, so as to make sure that there is no bleeding from any of these branches. The clots must also be turned out of the tissues around; sometimes it may be necessary to clear them out of the knee joint should the aneurysm have ruptured into it. Even in these cases amputation is not necessary, because if the operation be performed aseptically the articulation will probably recover perfectly. A drainage tube must be inserted into the popliteal space and left in for about ten days on account of the free oozing which often occurs. The leg should be put on a straight back splint and somewhat elevated, and the same precautions should be taken with the lower extremity AS are requisite after ligature of the common femoral (see p. 356).