SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. the prevention of secondary haemorrhage was too small. Nowadays this is a point of no importance, because, as has just been said, sepsis does not occur, the ligature does not separate, and consequently there is no need for a protecting clot. The Hunterian Operation.—In this operation the artery is ligatured at some distance above the aneurysm. In the earlier operations done by John Hunter popliteal aneurysm was the affection treated, and the femoral artery was ligatured in Hunter's canal. At the present time the usual situation for the appHcation of the Hunterian ligature for popliteal aneurysm is the apex of Scarpa's triangle, where the artery is quite superficial and readily accessible. After the vessel has been ligatured, pulsation in the aneurysm ceases, the blood comes to a standstill in the sac, and, being in contact with a foreign body in the shape of clot, it undergoes coagu- lation. Changes then take place in the coagulum which lead to the entire obliteration of the aneurysm and its conversion into a fibrous mass, which ultimately shrinks and almost entirely disappears. While this is the usual result, it occasionally happens that the Hunterian operation fails to cure the aneurysm, and this is most likely to occur where the collateral circulation has developed to too great an extent before operation, and where consequently blood freely re-enters the artery below the ligature and the circulation through the aneurysm is thus rapidly restored. It is not uncommon in popliteal aneurysm treated by the Hunterian ligature to find that pulsation recurs in the sac after two or three days, from the establish- ment of the collateral circulation, but this as a rule gradually ceases, and the aneurysm ultimately consolidates. In some cases, however, the amount of blood which passes into the sac is excessive, and the cure fails. Distal Ligature.—The application of a distal ligature, that is to say, one applied to the trunk of the vessel or its main branches on the distal side of the aneurysm, is useful in cases in which neither the old operation nor the proximal ligature can be employed. It is, for example, specially suitable for aneurysms at the root of the neck, particularly when the innominate artery or the first part of the subclavian or the carotid arteries are implicated, and it has been used in some cases of aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. The object of the procedure is either to arrest the current of blood circulating through the aneurysm entirely by cutting off the branches which emerge from it, or at any rate to retard it to such an extent that the deposition of laminated clot can go on more rapidly and thus bring about a cure. The "Old Operation."—In this operation the sac is opened, the clots cleared out, and the wall of the aneurysm dissected away as completely as possible after the vessel has been ligatured above and below the orifice of communication. This operation has come into favour of recent years for two principal reasons : in the first place it absolutely cures the aneurysm ; in the second, it is less likely to be followed by gangrene than any other procedure in the case of a large aneurysm or one which has become diffuse.