312 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. longer. It has been found in practice that a number of aneurysms are cured by pressure, even when appHed intermittently. The objections to the procedure are first of all that it is difificult to satisfactorily compress the vessel, in the second place it causes great pain to the patient, and in the third place there is risk of injury to the vessel itself at the seat of compression; aneurysms have developed later on at the point of pressure. (a) Digital Compression.—Wherever it can be employed digital com- pression is far preferable to that exerted by instruments. By its means the assistant can gauge the amount of pressure which is necessary to arrest the circulation much better than can be done by screwing down an instru- ment, and, as the fingers soon get tired, there is not the same risk of applying too much pressure; the result is that the pain is considerably less. Besides this, it is necessary to frequently change the assistant who is applying the pressure, and as a result, the compression is not applied continuously to the same part of the artery, and thus less damage is done. Finally, there is not the risk of the artery escaping pressure for a considerable time as would be the case should the instrument slip. If digital compression is to be employed, a relay of assistants is neces- sary, for, as a rule, it will be found that one cannot keep up satisfactory compression for more than from fifteen to twenty minutes at a time. It is well to reinforce the compression exerted by the fingers by means of a bag of shot or a suitable leaden weight laid upon them, so that there is not so much muscular exertion required, and the compression can therefore be persevered with longer. The point at which the artery is compressed should be varied so as to relieve the pain, and each fresh assistant should compress the artery either above or below the point at which the compression is being applied, before the fingers of his predecessor are removed. If pos- sible, the pressure should be maintained continuously for from 12 to 24 hours ; when this is impossible, it may be employed for from four to six hours daily for two or three days. Before commencing the compression, the skin over the part should be shaved, washed with alcohol, and powdered with equal parts of boracic acid and starch, and a piece of boracic lint should always be interposed between the fingers and the skin. It is generally necessary to keep the patient under the influence of morphine when compression is employed ; sometimes it is even necessary to resort to the administration of a general anaesthetic when the pain is intense. This is not, however, generally called for when digital compression is employed. ip) Instrumental Compression.—In some cases it is absolutely neces- sary to employ instrumental pressure, notwithstanding the greater pain that it causes, and notwithstanding that the tourniquet must be screwed down so tightly in order to prevent it from slipping, that there is greater pressure on and risk of damage to the tissues and the vessel itself, and notwith- standing also that there is less chance of cure, because the pressure cannot be maintained for so long as in the digital method. These cases