85 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. the first two or three days the best arrangement is an internal splint, applied to the foot and leg. When the equinus is well marked it will be found that, after correcting the varus deformity, the foot lies almost in the same straight line with the leg, and that therefore the adduction of the foot and the inward bend at the tranverse tarsal joint can be remedied by a straight internal splint applied from the knee down to the toes. In three or four days' time, when the wounds have healed, it is well to put up the foot temporarily in a Sayre's apparatus, around which plaster of Paris is applied in the manner already described (see p. 80). The subsequent treatment will depend to a large extent upon the patient's surroundings. In hospital patients who cannot afford any elaborate apparatus and who are unable to give proper attention to the care of the Fig. 4c.—Thomas's Wrench.—A shows the wrench, B, C, and Z> the methods of using it in a case of talipes equino-varus. (Robert yoiies.) foot, it is best to continue with the plaster of Paris bandages, which should be renewed about once a week, for from three to six months. Every time they are renewed the leg should be thoroughly rubbed and chafed, and the galvanic current applied to the muscles. At the end of about six weeks or in some cases even earlier, it will generally be possible to carry out the second stage of the treatment, namely the correction of the talipes equinus. Before doing this, however, the foot must be very carefully examined in order to see whether any fresh shrinking of the ligaments or the plantar fascia has occurred. Should contraction have recurred, the tenotomy and wrenching must be repeated before the tendo Achillis is divided. The best indication of the proper time for the correction of the talipes equinus is that, when the apparatus is taken off, the foot should retain its corrected position, or, at any rate, it should be possible to at once make it resume it by the very gentlest