TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 249 Changes that occur in a Nerve after division. — These differ in the proximal and distal portions. In the distal end they are very marked and occur within a short period after receipt of the injury. I'he ultimate result is that the whole of the distal portion becomes shrunken and thin, and loses its characteristic white shining appearance, while the cut end is usually tapering, although in some cases it may become somewhat bulbous. In the latter case, however, the bulb is usually comparatively small, and does not at all equal in size that which forms in connection with the proximal end. If the nerve be examined microscopically, it will be found that the earliest changes are the breaking up of the myelin, which, in the course of three or four days, becomes converted into a collection of oil globules; the axis cylinders also split up and undergo rapid degeneration. The result is that before long the sheath of the nerve contains a mass of degenerated products quite incapable of transmitting impulses, and as time goes on these are absorbed, and only the empty shrunken fibrous sheath is left. These changes are quite evident in from four to six days after the injury, and are usually complete throughout the whole of the distal portion of the nerve in from six weeks to two months. On examining the proximal end of a divided nerve some time after the receipt of the injury, it will be found markedly bulbous; the bulb results from the formation of a considerable quantity of new connective tissue, and also of a large number of nerve fibrils of new formation, which represent an attempt at regeneration of the nerve. The degenerative changes which are so marked in the distal end are comparatively slight in the proximal portion, and, while disintegration of the myelin does take place, it seldom extends above the first, or at the very most the second, node of Ranvier. The interval between the divided ends is usually filled up with fibrous tissue. Changes that occur when union takes place between the divided ends.—Restoration of function occurs by growth downwards from the proximal end of new nerve fibrils which gradually extend through the distal portion until they reach the terminal organs. The primitive axis cylinders usually send out small filaments (generally two or three from each ■cylinder), which enter the nerve sheaths in the distal portion, grow down them, and give rise to fresh nerves. In the sensory branches, the degenera- tion of the distal portion is not so rapid, and when immediate suture is performed, the restoration of sensation may occur very quickly. Usually, however, a long time elapses before normal sensation is restored, the pro- bability being that a certain amount of conduction goes on, until ultimately the fresh fibres have completely restored the nerve. The restoration of the motor fibres always takes a considerable time, and, as a rule, it is not materially influenced by the period of time which elapses between the injury and the nerve-suture; even when this is performed two or three days after the receipt of the injury, the time that elapses before the