224 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. operation such as amputation is necessary. Further, it must be remembered that in these cases of tendon sheath disease, there seems /.o be a special Hability to the occurrence of phthisis, and unless something radical be done, the patient is very apt indeed to develop lung trouble. SYPHILITIC TENO-SYNOVITIS.—Syphilis affects the sheaths of tendons in the same way as it attacks the synovial membrane of joints. In the secondary period of the disease the tendon sheaths, especially in the neighbourhood of the joints, are apt to be affected with a form of serous synovitis. The condition is chronic, but it yields very readily to anti-syphilitic treatment (see Part I., Chap. XII.). In the tertiary stage gum- mata may form in connection with the tendon sheaths, but they are very rare. The treatment is, of course, that appropriate for tertiary syphilis. NEW GROWTHS. New growths in connection with the tendons and tendon sheaths are very rare. Myxoma, fibroma, and sarcoma may occur as primary growths, and their treatment is removal according to the circumstances of the case. GANGLION. The only other condition which need be referred to in connection with tendon sheaths is that known as ganglion. By this term is under- stood a sac, usually comparatively small and containing a glairy fluid, whose wall resembles in structure the tendon sheath to which it is attached. They generally occur in connection with tendons which are over-used. In pianists they are very common on the back of the wrist; in needle-women, about the thumb and the wrist. They form hard tumours which move laterally with the tendon and vertically also when the fingers are moved. Ganglia may also occur in connection with joints; this variety is most often seen about the wrist, where they communicate directly with the synovial cavity. In this form the sac is very often multiple, whilst in those connected with the finger tendons it is usually single. TREATMENT.—The simplest method of treatment is to burst the ganglion by pressure, and so disperse its contents into the cellular tissue, and by subsequent pressure to effect an obliteration of the cavity. This may sometimes be readily done when the wall of the sac is thin, and good pressure can be made against the subjacent bone. Forcible pressure is applied to the swelling by one or both thumbs, which squeeze the ganglion against the bone; if sufficient pressure be exerted, the ganglion is suddenly felt to give way. The compression is maintained, and the part kneaded until the whole of the contents of the sac have been pressed out into the cellular tissue. A pad in the form of a graduated compress is then applied, a piece of lint about the size of the ganglion being first placed over the spot, a somewhat larger piece outside, and then one larger still, until a sufficient amount has been put on to enable the bandage to get