67 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. before the tendo Achillis is divided. The operation is readily performed by means of straight incisions along the inner and outer sides of the foot, at about the level of the scaphoid bone; the incisions are carried down to the bone, the tendons and other structures on the front of the tarsus are peeled off with a periosteum detacher, and the structures in the sole of the foot are similarly treated. The soft parts are held aside by copper spatulas introduced between them and the bones, and a wedge-shaped cut is made in the tarsus by means of a saw insinuated between the spatulae and the bone. The portion of bone removed should have its base directed towards the dorsum of the foot, and the apex towards the sole. The bones should be removed without any regard to their articulations, and the block excised generally consists of the head of the astragalus, a portion of the scaphoid, and a portion of the cuboid. When this has been done, the foot can usually be brought satisfactorily into position; should there be any difficulty, further portions of the bones may be removed by a chisel. It is of course necessary to employ, as preliminaries to this operation, ■division of the plantar fascia and thorough wrenching of the foot, and these should be done immediately before the soft parts are separated from the bones; it would be impossible to carry them out after the bones have been •divided, and, therefore, a larger amount of bone would have to be taken away than is actually necessary. The size of the wedge should be such as to allow the patient to walk upon the under surfaces of the metatarsal bones instead of upon the ends. It should not be so great as to entirely obliterate the arch of the foot, and it is well to make the wedge rather small in the first place, and then, if necessary, to remove a second slice, the thickness ■of which can be readily estimated after the first wedge has been removed. The bleeding is arrested, the wound stitched up without a drainage tube, antiseptic dressings applied, and the foot put into proper position. A splint is applied to the back of the leg and the sole of the foot, and retained for about six weeks, until bony union has occurred. By that time the tendo Achillis may be divided, and, if necessary, the posterior ligaments of the ankle joint also may be cut, so as to enable the foot to be brought up to a right angle in the first instance, and, subsequently, to an acute angle. After about three weeks longer, the patient may be allowed to walk about, and the treatment recommended for the first class of cases of talipes equinus is then carried out. TALIPES CALCANEUS. As a congenital deformity this is comparatively a rare affection. When it occurs, it is usually the result of infantile paralysis affecting the muscles of the calf. When present at birth, it is often associated with an absence of the fibula, or some similar arrest of development of the leg. In the cases in which the fibula is absent, there is usually a compound form of the ■deformity which takes the shape of talipes calcaneo-valgus. In the paralytic