CLUB-FOOT. 72 employed is not to divide the tendon at all on account of the danger of the union subsequently stretching, but to alter the bony attachment of the tendo Achillis to the os calcis. When, owing to the paralysis, the nutrition of the leg is faulty, and when, therefore, the union in such a slightly vascular structure as tendon will very probably be extremely imperfect, there is no doubt that a more satisfactory result will be obtained by altering the point of insertion of the tendo Achillis into the os calcis. The great objection to this plan is, however, that the amount of shorten- ing obtained by its means is comparatively limited, and the method is only of real value when the amount of talipes calcaneus is very moderate. Two operations have been recommended (see Fig. 36); in the first a flap with its convexity upwards is raised over the heel, and dissected down- wards so as to expose the whole of the posterior part of the os calcis. A saw is then applied to the upper surface of the bone immediately in front tendon is very long, it has been advised that the upper part of the bone thus sawn off should be turned round at a right angle and applied to a raw surface made by cutting off sufficient of the under surface of the os calcis ; this is done to bring down the insertion of the tendon to the very lowest possible point. The results of attempts to produce great shortening in this manner do not, however, seem to be very satisfactory. After-treatment.—After the operation the wound is stitched up without a drainage tube, the usual antiseptic dressings are applied, and the foot is put up on a splint so that the toes are markedly pointed, and ic kept in that position for about six weeks, until bony union is complete. After that time, the patient may be allowed to walk about with the boot already described (see p. 68). Fig. 36.—Transplantation of Tendo Achillis. This is a diagrammatic representation of the two operations described in the text. In A the slice of the os calcis is drawn down as low as possible and fixed in position with screws ; the portion below the dotted line ai is then sawn off. In B further shortening is obtained by turning the slice of bone round at right angles, making a raw surface with a chisel or saw on the under aspect of the os calcis and screw- ing the slice of bone down to it. A 3 of the tendon, and, by a vertical cut, a thin slice of the bone, with the attachment of the tendo Achillis to it, is sawn off. This slice of bone is pulled down until the insertion of the tendon is at a point as low as may be necessary, or as low as possible, and the bone is fixed into its new position by two or three small screws or nails. The projecting lower portion of the slice of bone is then cut off so as to make it level with the under surface of the os calcis. In some cases where the