WEBBED DIGITS. 7 Even then, however, a considerable amount of contraction may still take place. (b) The V-shaped flap.—A more satisfactory method is to turn a flap into the cleft after the web has been divided. The best way of doing this is to make a triangular flap with its apex downwards upon the dorsal surface of the base of the web (see Fig. 5). A triangular flap, the apex of which is in the centre of the web sufficiently low down to enable the flap when cut to fold into the cleft and be readily stitched to the skin of the palm, is marked out by carrying an incision upwards on each side from this point to one a little to the side of the corresponding phalanx and opposite the base of the web. This flap, consisting of skin and fat, is turned upwards, and then the web is split down the centre. The flap is now folded downwards between the fingers, its apex is stitched Fig. 5.—The V-Shapeu Opkration for Webiied Fingers.—The three stages of tile operation are here depicted. In the centre is shown the flap marl<ed out upon the web ; on the right, the flap has been dissected up, and the web split to its free margin ; while on the left is sliown the flap sutured in position in the cleft between the fingers, the redundant portion of the web only requiring removal before the operation is complete. to the palmar edge of the cleft, and its sides to the adjacent skin edges. "J'he result is that immediate union takes place and no contraction occurs. The raw surface on each finger left by splitting the web is then trimmed so that all redundant tissue is removed, and the edges stitched accurately together so as to obtain union by first intention. It will usually be found that the granular fat projects between the edges of the skin, and prevents their accurate apposition; where this is the case, it is well, before putting in the stitches, to press the skin edges together and clip away all the projecting fat. This operation may be employed not only for a web that is partial, but also for one that is complete, provided always that it is sufficiently broad to leave plenty of room between the fingers; in these cases it is the best procedure that can be adopted. (2) Where the web is narrow.—This is a much more difficult condition to deal with successfully. Under these circumstances the operation