CLUB-FOOT. 54 The limb should be put up with the foot at a right angle, and any lateral displacement remedied as far as possible by side splints; these may be replaced at the end of from ten to fourteen days by a suitable plaster of Paris casing which will require to be kept on for at least eight weeks. Owing to the slowness with which union occurs under these circumstances it is impossible to dispense with the apparatus earlier, and, owing to the liability to non-union after an operation of this kind, it is useless to attempt to promote the movement of the ankle joint until the union of the bones of the leg is complete. As soon as this has occurred, passive movement must be begun, and it will usually be found that the degree of mobility present in the ankle before the operation will still remain. Of course, by careful movement and massage, and later on by forced move- ments under an anaesthetic, it may be possible to largely increase it. When the ulceration, or the burn, is situated upon the foot itself, the bone calling for removal will generally be the astragalus, but the actual operation required will depend entirely upon the nature of the deformity and the situation of the cicatrix. In some cases, no doubt, amputation will be the better practice, but no definite rules can be laid down, on account of the great variety of conditions that may be met with. C—THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. TALIPES EQUINUS. In this form of club-foot the heel is drawn up and the toes are pointed. The condition is very rarely congenital; it usually results from some inflammation in the calf muscles or in their vicinity, which leads to their contraction. It may also occur from loss of power in the anterior group of leg muscles as the result of infantile paralysis, from cicatricial contraction of ulcers or wounds in the calf of the leg, or from long-continued point- ing of the foot during a prolonged illness, when care has not been taken to keep the pressure of the bed-clothes off the toes by a cradle. It may also occur in connection with disease of the ankle or the tarsal joints in which a secondary contraction of the muscles of the calf has occurred. Talipes equinus varies in degree in different cases. Sometimes the heel may be drawn up to such an extent that the sole of the foot is almost in the same plane as the back of the leg; sometimes the chief trouble is that the ankle cannot be flexed beyond a right angle. In the severe cases the patient walks upon the balls of the toes, which are generally hyper-extended upon the metatarsals by the pull of the extensor tendons which have also become contracted; the main trouble is caused partly by the increased length of the lower extremity and the small basis upon which the patient stands, and partly by the formation of callosities and bursae over the ends of the metatarsal bones, and the frequent attacks of inflammation and suppuration which their presence almost necessarily entails.