CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. '30 two or three years of life, to bring the head of the bone nearly, if not quite, into its normal position by steady extension, and it is often possible while doing this to feel a definite slight click as the head comes down over the edge of the imperfect acetabulum. On the other hand, it is also generally possible to push the head of the bone up to a higher level than it usually occupies. As the patient grows older the tissues around the joint become firmer and less yielding, so that, by the time adult life is reached, this mobility of the head of the bone in the vertical direction is not nearly so free. The gait is marked by a peculiar waddling move- ment which is due to the sliding of the head of the femur over the surface of the innominate bone, and in addition to this there is the lordosis and adduction to which reference has already been made. The condition is, of course, one of considerable gravity on account of the increasing difficulty in progression as age advances. It is commonly found that a patient who was able to run about easily as a child becomes quite unable to walk or even stand as adult life is reached. TREATMENT.—Many different methods of treatment have been employed for the cure of this deformity, but up till recently very few have met with any success. Some have treated the affection by dividing all the tight structures around the joint (more particularly the adductors and the fascia lata on the front of the thigh), and have then confined the patient to bed or to a couch for a considerable time—two years or more. Extension is applied to the limb during the whole of this period with a view of keeping the head of the bone in proper position whilst the soft parts around it are being allowed time to contract and to become sufficiently firm to prevent recurrence of the sliding movement of the head of the bone. These attempts, however, almost invariably end in disappointment and are not at all to be recommended. Other surgeons have contented them- selves with employing some form of apparatus designed to enable the patient to walk; this consists essentially of a band around the pelvis con- nected by an iron rod with a leather splint tightly grasping the thigh, and supposed to prevent the upward thrust of the femur in walking. It is, however, quite futile. At the present time there are two methods of treatment which seem to offer good results, and for which we are chiefly indebted to the work of foreign surgeons, mainly to that of Lorenz, Hoffa, and Paci. Their object is to replace the head of the bone in the rudimentary acetabulum and, with or without an open operation, to form a new one. Although these methods show a distinct improvement in many ways upon the older ones, they are, nevertheless, frequently unsatisfactory to a certain extent. We shall describe first the treatment for cases in early infancy before the ■child has reached the age when walking is attempted. After this will come the non-operative method which is now carried out chiefly by Lorenz, and which is based upon the work of Paci; it is most suitable for children who are three or four years old and who have learnt to walk. Finally, we