HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. dressing applied. The plantar splint already referred to (see p. 13) is then put on, and in applying it care should be taken to have an extra amount of padding beneath the tip of the toe; this ensures the latter being kept straight when the bandage is applied. As soon as the wound has healed, the toe and the front part of the foot should be put up in a silicate bandage, and the patient may be then allowed to walk about. After from six to eight weeks, the bandage can be dispensed with and the patient may be regarded as well. After-treatment.—Special attention must be paid to the socks and to the fit of the boots ; the latter should not be too short, as otherwise the end of the toe will be pressed upon and flexion will recur. The socks should be furnished with a separate compartment for the great toe. When hallux valgus is present and was originally the exciting cause of the deformity, the measures detailed below for the treatment of that condition must be adopted simultaneously. HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. By the term Hallux Valgus is understood a condition in which there is abduction of the great toe to a more or less marked extent. As a consequence of this abduction, the inner side of the head of the first metatarsal bone becomes more or less uncovered and, consequently, is directly subjected to pressure against the boot; inflammation therefore takes place in the exposed bone and the periosteum over it, and this leads to considerable thickening of these structures. There is subsequently developed in the subcutaneous tissues over the enlarged bone a bursa which is subject to repeated attacks of inflammation. This condition is commonly designated by the term bunion; by an inflamed bunion is meant one in which the bursa over the enlarged bone has become inflamed. The inflammatory attacks in the bursa may pass off", leaving additional thickening of the surrounding structures, or they may go on to suppuration, which may be followed by extensive cellulitis of the foot, perforation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, septic arthritis, necrosis, etc. The great toe may be deflected outwards so as to lie under or over the second; in the latter case (which is the usual one) the toe is also rotated so that its upper surface looks somewhat inwards, and its inner border is directed towards the sole. Thus, there is here a compound deformity, namely, abduction of the toe combined with rotation, and it is very important to bear this in mind when attempting to remedy the condition. The affection is essentially produced by the use of ill-fitting boots, those in which the toe of the boot comes to a sharp point opposite the middle of the foot, being the chief offenders. Bootmakers are apt to forget that a boot pointed in this way can only be worn by crowding the toes together, and that if the boot must be brought to a point, the latter should be