ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 325 bloodless a wound as possible; otherwise the difficulties in finding the artery are enormously increased. This is best assured by taking care that every vessel is clamped in two places, and, if necessary, ligatured before it is cut. Careful sponging and the sparing use of the point of the knife also greatly facilitate matters. The lower edge of the dilated external jugular vein may project well into the field of operation. As a rule, division of this should be avoided; it can generally be drawn inwards by a retractor, but should it get in the way, it must be divided between two ligatures. Care should be taken not to cut into it before it has been ligatured, as the cardiac end of the vein usually stands rigid and widely open as it passes through the fascia, and air may therefore be sucked into it. The arteries do not as a rule give rise to any trouble. The transverse cervical is generally well above the incision, and the supra- scapular usually lies behind the clavicle, well out of the way; should they come into the field of operation, they can be easily drawn aside with retractors, and should not be divided unless it is absolutely necessary, as they are important agents in carrying on the collateral circulation. Perhaps the most important point in the operation is not to mistake the lowest cord of the brachial plexus for the vessel, as a ligature placed upon it would entail the most serious and painful consequences. This cord lies in close connection with the artery and is a good guide to it \ in an oedematous and blood-infiltrated wound there is some danger of mistaking the one for the other, more particularly as the artery may com- municate a spurious pulsation to the nerve. As long as the possibility of confounding the two is recognized, it should be easy to avoid such a mis- take, as the firm rounded nerve cord is quite different to the feel of the flat, ribbon-like artery; besides which, the pulsation should be felt in the vessel and digital pressure applied to it should at once stop the pulse in the artery below. The only other point that need be mentioned is the necessity for keeping the needle close to the iiessel as the ligature is passed, and it is always best where possible to pass the needle round the artery from below upwards and from before backwards; the lowest cord of the plexus can be kept out of the way of the needle by a finger introduced as a guide into the wound. Wound of the pleura, which is usually described as a complication of the operation, need hardly be mentioned; it should never occur where ordinary care is employed, and even should it happen no serious harm results. ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. This affection is not at all frequent. It may be met with in any portion of the vessel, but is most common at the upper extremity close to its bifurcation, or at the lower end immediately above the origin of the