FEMORAL ANEURYSM. the femoral vein. It also gives rise to considerable pain, especially referred to the inner side of the thigh and upper part of the leg, which is due to pressure upon the long saphenous nerve. Aneurysms of the femoral artery either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal not infrequently become diffuse, and it will therefore be necessary to consider the treatment of aneurysm in this situation according as the affection is circumscribed or diffuse. (1) TREATMENT OF CIRCUMSCRIBED FEMORAL AN- EURYSM.—Here there is a choice between two methods of treatment, namely, compression (either continuous or intermittent, digital or instru- mental) and ligature. The relative value of these two methods has already been discussed on page 31 t, and what is there said is meant to refer to this particular form of aneurysm. (a) Compression.—We are of opinion that treatment by compression is not nearly so satisfactory as that by ligature, and that it can be but rarely called for. In fact it should only be employed when the patient refuses operation, or when he is suffering from some grave constitutional affection, such as cardiac disease, diabetes, etc. The vessel compressed is generally the common femoral at the groin; or, should there be sufficient space above the aneurysm, the superficial femoral may be controlled in Scarpa's triangle. Digital Compression.—This should always be chosen in preference to the use of instruments, because the compression can be kept up much more satisfactorily and intelligently, and with less pain to the patient. The great disadvantage of digital compression is that a number of assistants are required; it is impossible for any individual to keep up satisfactory pressure upon a vessel for much longer than fifteen minutes at a time, and in some cases the aneurysm may require continuous pressure for many hours before a cure is effected. For some days before the compression is carried out the patient should be confined to bed, the bowels freely cleared out, and a preliminary course of medical treatment, having for its object the lowering of the blood pressure and the promotion of the coagulability of the blood, employed (see p. 302). The skin of the groin should be carefully shaved, and for several days before the compression it should be sponged over with spirits of wine or whisky three or four times a day so as to increase its resisting power. The shaving is of importance, as it minimizes the danger of pustular eruptions, which are otherwise likely to result from the friction of the compression, and which might interfere considerably with its proper performance. To still further aid this, the skin should also be disinfected, so as to remove organisms which might possibly be rubbed into the hair follicles. Immedi- ately before the compression is commenced, the skin should be thickly dusted with a powder consisting of equal parts of oxide of zinc and boracic acid, and a large piece of boric lint should be applied just over the part of the vessel to which the pressure is to be applied.