lOI CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. vary with the amount of bone requiring removal. The periosteum is separated on each side by a rugine, and then the bone is either cut directly through with a chisel, or a wedge is taken out of it. The wedge may be easily removed by means of a chisel, though some surgeons prefer to use a saw, at any rate for marking out the portion of bone to be removed, the division being then completed with a few strokes of the chisel. This is preferable to using the saw throughout, as there is some danger of injuring the structures of the calf when the posterior surface of the tibia is divided. After enough bone has been removed to allow the limb to be brought straight, the wound is stitched up and the usual antiseptic dressings are applied. It is seldom necessary to wire the fragments together, but, in cases of marked antero-posterior bending just above the ankle, it is sometimes of considerable Fig. 46.—Method of putting up the Limb after Osteotomy of the Tibia. For the sake of clearness no dressings are shown appHed to the limb. There is one fairly long pad (c) applied over the convexity of the curve, and two small thick ones (a and i) on the opposite side of the limb, between the splint and the inner condyle of the femur above, and the inner malleolus below. advantage to do this in order to prevent the foot falling back. In these cases also it is sometimes as well to divide the tendo Achillis, which would otherwise have a great tendency to pull the heel back into its faulty position. Where linear osteotomy is preferred to the cuneiform variety, it is well, if possible, to make the section of the bone as oblique as possible, so as to get a broader surface for union, and in Fig. 45 C is illus- trated a method by which this oblique section can be so adapted to different curvatures as to allow the deformity to be reduced with the least separation of the bony surfaces. After-treatment.—The limb should be put up on a splint, and for this purpose we generally employ a trough of Gooch's splinting (see Fig. 46) for the first few days until the wound has healed and the stitches are removed. This trough is cut of sufficient breadth to surround rather more than half the limb, and to extend from the fold of the buttock, where it is cut away obliquely from within outwards and upwards, to ■well below the foot. A portion of the splint should be cut out opposite the heel so that no injurious pressure shall be exerted, but in quite small ■children this need not be done; instead, the padding may be so arranged that the heel is pushed somewhat forward and at the same time does