355 FEMORAL ANEURYSM. aside, or removed if unduly large. A few superficial veins may also require ligature. The deep fascia is then incised along the incision, and the pulsa- tion of the artery felt for. When this is made out, a small incision is made in the sheath of the vessel, and an aneurysm needle inserted around it. The ligature should be passed from the inner side so as to avoid the vein ; as a rule, a single ligature suffices for tying the femoral artery and any of the vessels lower down in the limb, and there is no particular objection to division of the internal and middle coats, provided always the wound be kept aseptic. Care must be taken not to include in the ligature the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, which descends upon the front of the artery, otherwise excruciating pain may result. The skin wound is closed without a drainage tube, the usual antiseptic dressings applied, the limb disinfected and wrapped up in cotton wool, and placed in a slightly elevated position. Of the Superficial Femoral.—The seat of election for ligature of this vessel is the apex of Scarpa's triangle, but when the aneurysm occurs in that situation it may be necessary to tie the vessel higher up, that is to say about the middle or even the upper part of the triangle. The line of the vessel is the same as that of the common femoral. Fig. 131.—Ligature of the Left Superficial Femoral at the Apex ok Scarpa's Triangle.— 8. Sanorius. A. Femoral artery. V. Femoral vein. F. Fascia. N. Internal saphenous nerve. It will be seen that the nerve here lies rather internal to the artery; it is usually in front and to its outer side. In ligaturing it at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, an incision is made in the line of the vessel with its centre about the apex of the triangle, dividing skin, superficial and deep fascia. The inner border of the sartorius should then come into view, but care must be taken not to mistake the adductor longus for this muscle, as it may be exposed should the incision be made rather too far inwards. The identification should be quite easy, as the fibres of the sartorius run downwards and inwards, whilst