143 CORNS. CORNS. Corns are small localized hypertrophies of the epidermis, the peripheral part consisting of a number of layers of parallel epidermic cells, and the central portion being formed by a dense mass which presses on the papillae and the dermis, and causes more or less atrophy of these structures. Not infrequently a small bursa forms beneath the centre of the corn, and if the irritation persist, inflammation and suppuration may occur in it, and the condition thus produced is known as a suppurating corn. Corns are met with where there is long-continued pressure, and are frequently found between the toes. TREATMENT.—Absolute cleanliness must be insisted upon. The part must be kept dry, and pressure on any prominent points avoided. Pointed shoes must be especially eschewed as they compress the feet, and constantly lead to the occurrence of corns both between the toes and over the more prominent points, especially the outer side of the little toes. When a corn has formed, all pressure should be taken off from it, and not infrequently the mere avoidance of pressure alone is sufficient to lead to the separation of the dense core and to a complete disappearance of the trouble. Pressure may be avoided in various ways; when the corn is situated between two adjacent toes, a piece of boracic lint inserted between their tips so as to prevent the two sides pressing on one another, will relieve the pressure and so bring about a cure. In the sole, pressure is best relieved by a hollow rifig-pad, the corn being made to occupy the centre of the ring. The disappearance of the corn may be much accelerated by shaving down the dense core with a razor, after the toe has had a prolonged soaking in hot water. In paring down the thickened epidermis care must be taken not to go deep enough to injure the living tissues, because the epidermis of a corn often contains much septic material which may be introduced through the incision in the skin and lead to very serious infection. As a rule, after the source of pressure has been removed and the corn has been shaved down several times, it is not difficult to pick out its core with a needle, when, if pressure be carefully avoided, the skin of the part will very soon resume its normal appearance. When the corn is large, it is well after shaving it to apply the salicylic collodion {vide supra) once a day, repeating the shaving if necessary about once a week; if the corn be situated between the toes care must be taken to keep the latter well apart until the collodion is thoroughly dry. Some arrangement for pre- venting pressure subsequently must, of course, be also employed. When the case is one of a suppurating com the patient should be made to lie up, and the abscess opened. The best method of opening it is to make an incision through the centre of the corn by means of a Syme's abscess knife. The pus usually forms in the bursa beneath the base of the corn, and though only small in amount may, from the tension of the