GENU VALGUM. 113 bone. The line which the osteotome should follow should run somewhat obliquely downwards and inwards; care must of course be taken not to direct it so far downwards as to injure the epiphyseal line. It is generally best to make the osteotome first of all cut through about half of the cancellous bone in the centre of the diaphysis; it should then be with- drawn and reinserted so as to divide the dense anterior surface, and finally it may be again withdrawn and reinserted so as to divide the dense bone on the posterior aspect. All these incisions should be carried about half way through the bone, when the osteotome may be finally withdrawn, a sponge placed over the wound and the remainder of the bone fractured by bending the leg inwards. {c) Of the tibia.—In dividing the tibia the best plan is to make a vertical incision commencing at the tubercle and running down- wards along the crest for about an inch. This incision should be carried down to the bone, and it is as well , to separate the periosteum on each side'of it with a rugine. The bone is then divided transversely by an osteotome, special care being taken to see that the inner side is completely cut through. The leg is then brought forcibly inwards, and if sufficient rectification be not obtained in this way the limb may be bent outwards again so as to fracture the outer side com- pletely, when, on bringing the limb inwards once more, rectification can easily be obtained. {d) Of femur and tibia combined.—The best rectifica- tion is obtained by dividing both the tibia and the femur, and in bad cases this is necessary if the most satisfactory result be desired. It is a matter of con- siderable difference of opinion as to whether the two bones should be divided simultaneously or at intervals. We are rather inclined to think that it is better to fig. 51.—Macewkn's Osteotome. perform the operation in two stages; in the first place the tibia should be divided, and, subsequently, after the lapse of about six weeks, the femur if necessary. There is less danger of re-fracturing at the second operation the bone divided at the first if they be performed in this order, whilst a more perfect rectification can be obtained if one bone be allowed to undergo consolidation before the second is divided. After-treatment.—After the completion of the operation one or two sutures should be inserted, an antiseptic dressing applied, the limb brought straight and put up on a suitable splint, which we are accustomed to make from a roll of Gooch's splinting properly padded; the method of cutting it has already been referred to (see p. loi), but in the cases under con- sideration it is well to cut away a space for the heel so as to obviate all fear of pressure upon the os calcis. In applying the padding special care must be taken to have a large pad over the internal condyle, and others PT. II, H