loS GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. of the bones has disappeared. When the rickets is cured, there is not much chance of further increase in the deformity, and this is an additional argument against the view that the softening of the bones is not a necessary part of the deformity. In young children the active period of rickets generally lasts until they are about four or five years of age, and up to this period the deformity will certainly recur if the apparatus be left off, even though it may have entirely disappeared under treatment. Hence, we may say that in all cases of knock-knee treated by rest and mechanical means, the treatment must be persevered with very carefully until the child is at least four or five years of age. At that age the bones will generally be firm enough to prevent any further increase in the deformity. (3) Cases in wMch tlie separation between the malleoli is greater than four inches, or where, in spite of splints, a marked separation exists after consolidation of the bones is complete.—In either of these groups comparatively little benefit can be expected from mechanical treatment. As a rule it is found that, in spite of prolonged mechanical treatment and much expenditure of time and money, the deformity will remain imperfectly corrected, and something further will have to be done if the limbs are to be restored to their normal condition. At the same time it has to be remembered that there is no advantage in performing osteotomy while the bones are still soft, because the deformity will almost certainly recur after the operation, when the patient is allowed to walk about. Hence, if for any reason osteotomy should be done before the bones are quite firm, the patient must be kept off his feet afterwards, and the other treatment men- tioned above must be adopted, just as if no operation had been employed. We are accustomed to make the rule that, even when there is marked deformity which brings the case within the group we are now considering, the operation should be deferred until the child has attained the age of four or five, or indeed longer if the soft condition of the bones has not then completely disappeared. In the meanwhile, of course, treatment by splints, etc., described above, is carried out, partly with the view of correcting the deformity to some extent, but mainly in order to prevent it from becoming exaggerated. When, however, the child has reached the age of four or five, and there is evidence that the bones are becoming firm, and when there is still a separation of more than three inches between the malleoli, it is quite useless to persevere with mechanical treatment, whilst operation furnishes a satisfactory and rapid cure. In young adults the mechanical measures which are so frequently employed seldom produce a satisfactory result, and it is a sad thing to see these patients going about wearing a cumbrous apparatus, and spending a con- siderable amount of time and money in attempts to rectify a deformity that can readily be put right by a comparatively simple operation. In young adults suffering from genu valgum, therefore, we would advise operation in all cases in which the distance between the malleoli is two