HAMMER TOE. II HAMMER TOE. By the term 'hammer toe' is understood a deformity of which the essential element is flexion of the first inter-phalangeal joint of the toe, accompanied, secondarily, by hyper-extension of the first phalanx on the metacarpal bone. The terminal phalanx usually retains its normal position, but in bad cases it may be in the same straight line with the second, so that the last two phalanges have their long axes directed vertically downwards, and the tip of the toe comes into contact with the ground. In acquired cases, on the other hand, this flexion of the terminal phalanx may not be present, the result being that the toe resembles the letter Z (see Fig. 8). This deformity usually affects the second toe, but it may affect others. The condition is a very troublesome one on account of the develop- ment of corns upon the points exposed to pressure. There is generally a large and tender corn over the first inter-phalangeal joint where it rubs Fig. 8.—Hammer Toe. The figure illustrates the two varieties of the affection. On the left-hand side is the Z-shaped deformity, in which there is, besides hyper-extension at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, flexion at the first and hyper-extension at the second interphalangeal articulation. In the other figure the deformity is similar, except that the terminal phalanx, instead of being hyper-extended upon the second, is in the same straight line with it. against the boot, and also on the free end of the toe, especially when the terminal phalanx looks straight downwards; the corn is then very often situated just behind the free edge of the nail, which is somewhat recurved, and causes intense pain when the patient walks. Corns also form on the inner aspect of the toe at the point where the great toe comes into contact with it. Another trouble in the cases in which the terminal phalanx is directed vertically downwards and the patient walks upon the tip of it, is that, unless the nail be kept very closely cut, there is a tendency for it to be separated from the matrix in walking, and great pain is thus occasioned. Hammer toe may be congenital and is often hereditary; in the latter case it is not usually marked until the patient begins to walk. In most cases it is acquired, and the chief cause is the presence of the condition known as hallux valgus; the great toe is abducted, over-rides tl^e second toe, and causes flexion of the second phalanx of the latter and the typical deformity just mentioned.