NEURITIS. 257 mance of nerve-suture does not seem to matter, at any rate to the same extent. A certain amount of restoration of sensation, although to a very imperfect degree, is often evident in the course of a day or two after the operation, whilst the restoration of the motor functions is generally delayed for a very considerable time, twelve months or even two years often elapsing before the first appearance of signs of recovery. Since the success of nerve-suture depends largely upon the condition of the muscles at the time when regeneration occurs, it is obvious that it is of great importance that the nutrition of the muscles should be kept up as much as possible by massage and electricity, as otherwise, when union of the nerve has taken place the muscles may be so atrophied as to be incapable of work. NEURITIS. Neuritis or inflammation of nerve trunks may be either acute or chronic. The acute form generally occurs in connection with a septic wound, or more rarely from some constitutional cause; in most cases neuritis is a chronic affection. VARIETIES.—Two forms of the disease are met with; one in which it is limited to a single nerve or branch of a nerve, a condition termed local or peripheral neuritis, and the other in which many nerves are simultaneously affected, a condition known as multiple neuritis. The surgeon has only to deal with the local form, which may be due to either a local or a general cause. CAUSES {a) Local.—Neuritis may occur in connection with a wound, more particularly should this be septic. When it follows upon an injury it is most frequently due to incomplete division, or to laceration or contusion of a nerve, rather than to a complete division by a clean cut. The presence of a foreign body, such as a piece of glass, in a wound may also frequently set up neuritis, or may aggravate the con- dition should it have already occurred as a result of sepsis in the wound. The disease may also be caused by the extension of inflammation to a nerve from some focus in the neighbourhood. For example, in tuberculous spinal disease the inflammatory process may extend to the nerves as they emerge from the inter-vertebral foramina. Similarly it may follow such an affection as a carious tooth, in which case the inflammation spreads up the nerve and reaches several of its branches. One of the most common local causes of neuritis is pressure, as is seen in a marked degree when an aneurysm presses upon some of the large nerve trunks. The pressure of new growths acts in a similar manner. Exposure to cold is a common cause of neuritis, as has already been mentioned in speaking of frost-bite (see Vol. I., p. 201); the indolence of the ulcers that often follow upon a mild degree of frost-bite has been attributed by some to neuritis set up by the action of the cold.