COXA VARA. 127 comparatively little shortening of the limb at the time of the operation, the trochanters on both sides being about on a level with N^laton's line, or only very slightly raised above it. At the present time, two and a half years after the operation in one case, and more than four years after the other, the trochanter, on the side operated upon, still remains practically on a level with Nekton's line, whilst, on the side not operated upon, this part of the deformity has progressed until there is shortening of half an inch or more from elevation of the trochanter. Thus, not only has the operation brought the limb into good position and thus enabled the patient to walk with ease, but it has also apparently led to the consolid- ation of the neck of the bone, and thus to a complete arrest of the progress of the deformity. The reason for this improvement is not at all clear, but two explanations seem probable: in the first place, the con- solidation occurring about the fracture produced by the operation may have extended upwards into the neck; or else the process of consolidation of the neck may be to some extent associated with the diminution in the vascular supply brought about by the operation, the upper branches of the nutrient artery being of necessity divided. However that may be, our experience is that division of the bone below the trochanter, during the active progress of the disease, has led to its com- plete arrest, to great diminution in the outward rotation of the other leg, and to complete restoration of the patient's power of walking. (2) In youngr adults the treatment should at first be carried out on similar lines until the bones become firm ; massage and manipulations, rest in bed with extension of the limb, as above described, being employed. There is, however, very little chance of obtaining much reduction of the deformity by these means, and in the early stages the treatment aims rather at preventing the deformity from getting worse until such time as the bones have become consolidated, and operative measures may be undertaken with advantage. In addition to these local measures, it is well, therefore, to employ general treatment with the design of building up the patient's strength and facilitating solidification of the bones; careful massage of the limb, good hygienic conditions, plenty of nourishing food, and the adminis- tration of cod liver oil, phosphorus, etc., are valuable auxiliaries. Excision of a wedge from the neck of the femur.—When the patient's general condition has undergone improvement and sufficient time has elapsed from the commencement of the disease, an operation may be advantageously employed if the degree of deformity be such as to render the patient unable to walk without it. In young adults where ossification is complete and the size of the parts is considerable, the best results will be obtained by the removal of a wedge from the neck of the femur (see Fig. 6r); it is probable also that the sub-trochanteric division of the femur described above would be useful, but we have not tried it in these cases. The operation, which has been specially recommended by Kraske, may be performed as follows: an incision is made commencing above and a little in front of