57 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. the point of the knife, so that it is very seldom that an accident of this kind occurs. We therefore prefer to divide tendons from the skin surface downwards. It is a method by which one can be perfectly certain of not leaving any fibres undivided, whilst the accidental enlargement of the skin opening is certainly avoided. With regard to the latter point, however, it must be confessed that at the present time, with the operation conducted perfectly aseptically, enlargement of the skin wound is, from the antiseptic point of view, a matter of no consequence whatever; at the same time it Fh;. 27.—The Methods of dividing thf. Tendo Achillis Suiicin ANEOuSLV. A. Division of the tendon from its deep surface to^uards the skin. The tenotomy knife is here introduced on the outer side at right angles to the skin, and is thrust across just in front of the anterior surface of the tendon until its point is just beneath the skin on the inner side, where the surgeon notes its position with the forefinger of the left hand- In the drawing the assistant is in the act of making the tendon tense for the surgeon to divide it. It is more usual to introduce the knife from the inner side. B. Division 0/ the tendon from its superficial snr/ace towards the Iwne. This is the method we prefer and have described in detail in the text. In the drawing the point of the tenotome is shown as it is being insinuated between the skin and the tendon ; the surgeon notes its progress beneath the skin by means of the left thumb or forefinger. The parts are represented as being fully relaxed by the assistant in order to facilitate the passage of the tenotome across the back of the tendon. In both drawings the surgeon's hands are denoted by the letters o, o, while those of the assistant are marked a, a. (Hoffa.) is best avoided, because of the possibility of the scar in the skin becoming adherent to the cicatricial tissue between the divided ends of the tendon, and thus hampering the movements of the latter. In division of the tendo Achillis, the knife should be introduced on the inner side of the tendon, about half an inch beyond its margin and about an inch above its insertion into the os calcis; the blade should lie flatwise on the tendon. In fat children it is not always easy to define the edge of the tendon, and in them it is best to make the puncture about midway between the inner border of the tibia, which can always be felt,