112 GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. bleeding points require ligature. The line of section is everywhere above the ligaments of the joint, and no damage is likely to be done to the popliteal or femoral vessels, which are carried well out of the way of the osteotome, partly by the flexion of the knee, and partly by observing the directions given for the division of the bone. The only artery at all likely to be divided is the anastamotica magna, but that generally lies above and behind the incision. The superior internal articular artery is also avoided if the above directions be carefully observed. It is very rarely necessary to enlarge the wound in order to tie bleeding points; should a vessel spout, it will generally stop partly from its own contraction and partly as the result of pressure. There are one or two points in the operations to which we may call special attention. In the first place it is well to employ Macewen's special osteotome (see Fig. 51), which differs from the ordinary chisel in that its cutting edge is bevelled on both sides instead of only on one; an ordinary chisel is apt to crush the bone upon one side instead of dividing it evenly. In children the osseous section may be completed by one osteotome, but in adults it is advisable to have two instru- ments of different size for the purpose, as, should the larger instrument become locked, it can be withdrawn and a smaller one slipped into its place and the section com- pleted ; the former should be about two- thirds to three-quarters of an inch in width, whilst the latter should be about half an inch wide. When dividing the bone from the inner side, it must be remembered that the line of section must run more or less parallel with that of the epiphysis, and should not therefore be transverse to the long axis of the lower extremity. As a result of the displacement of the epiphyseal line, which is an essential factor in the production of genu valgum, the chisel may become buried in the external condyle if it be held transversely to the long axis of the limb, and thus serious damage to the epiphyseal line may occur. (d) Through an incision on outer surface of thigh.—Some surgeons prefer to divide the bone from an incision on the outer side of the limb, and this is the operation that we have ourselves most frequently done; it somewhat facilitates the rectification Df the deformity. The incision should be made just above the external condyle, and, after all the structures down to the bone have been divided, the osteotome is slipped in along the blade of the knife and then turned transversely to the long axis of the Fig. 50.—Method of Holding Mac- ewen's Osteotome. The instrument, grasped in the hand, is steadied by resting the ulnar border of the hand upon the thigh and the thumb pressed beneath the head of the chisel serves to lever it gently out when it is desired to disengage it.