178 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. tuberculous lesions of lymphatic vessels, especially of the so-called scrofulous gummata, has already been alluded to (see p. 157). It consists essentially in excision of the tuberculous nodules wherever possible. Apart from the removal of the cause, the various methods suitable for chronic inflammation may be used, especially counter-irritation and pressure. In the extremities massage, bandaging and elevation of the limb should be vigorously employed, with the view of combating the cedema (see Part I., Chap. I.). LYMPHANGIECTASIS. This is a varicose condition of the lymphatic vessels. It may follow upon inflammations which obliterate or strangulate the main vessel, or upon pressure from bandages, cicatrices, etc., but in these cases the vessels seldom attain any great size, and do not become markedly varicose. The most common cause of the typical varix of the lymphatic vessels is the presence of the filaria sanguinis hominis, and this condition is most usually met with in the scrotum, where it is known as lymph, scrotum, and in the groin, where it is termed Ijrmphadenocele. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—In lymphangiectasis there are dis- tended tortuous tubes which may be both felt and seen, and the' affected area becomes swollen and somewhat oedematous. When the lymphatics of the skin are attacked, vesicles may appear over the course of vessels, and these often burst and lead to an exudation of lymph, sometimes in very large quantity. Lymphadenocele is generally bilateral, and is characterized by the presence of a soft fluctuating swelling in the groin. TREATMENT—(a) Lymphatic varix.—This is extremely unsatis- factory. Excision of the varicose trunks, as is done in the case of varicose veins, is not at all to be recommended. The varicosity is due, not to the pressure of a column of fluid or to inflammation of the vessels, but to actual obstruction, and the removal of the lymphatic trunks will not remedy this; on the contrary, it is very apt to lead to lymphorrhagia. Hence the treatment must be more or less palliative, and should consist in careful support and compression of the part by the use of elastic bandages or strapping, the method depending of course entirely upon the seat of the trouble. (b) Ljanphorrhagria.—In cases where there is lymphorrhagia, and the loss of fluid is great,—a condition which is injurious from its tendency to produce anaemia,—it may be permissible to excise the affected area if it be limited, and thus to aim at obtaining healing by first intention. Where this is successfully done, enlargement of the subcutaneous lymphatic vessels generally occurs. If the operation be undertaken, the great point is to ensure rigid asepsis of the wound, because, if septic material gain access to the vessels, acute and very often fatal lymphangitis is very likely to ensue.