55 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. In the milder cases it will be found that when the patient stands the sole is applied normally to the ground, but on any attempt to walk, the weight is borne mainly upon the front half of the foot, the heel being drawn up off the ground, although not nearly to such an extent as in the more severe cases. This leads to limping, and causes a certain amount of pain, which is felt chiefly in the back of the leg and about the heel and is due to the stretching of the tendo Achillis. In the slighter cases, and in those in which the deformity has lasted only a short time, the essential obstacle to the reduction of the deformity is the contraction of the calf muscles which gives rise to undue tension of the tendo Achillis. When the deformity is more marked, and particularly when it has lasted for a considerable time, certain secondary alterations take place about the foot. The chief of these is contraction of the plantar fascia which leads to an exaggeration of the arch of the instep, and ultimately produces the condition known as talipes cavus, or hollow club- foot. This exaggeration of the instep causes pain in walking, which is mainly complained of in the sole, and is due to stretching of the shortened plantar fascia; callosities also generally develop, particularly over the head of the first metatarsal bone, and give rise to considerable additional pain. In some cases also, permanent shortening of the long flexors of the toes and of the peroneus longus takes place, whilst, in addition, inversion of the foot at the mid-tarsal joint may occur, producing the condition of talipes equino-varus. In very long-standing cases, especially those in which the deformity is extreme, the posterior ligament of the ankle joint becomes shortened, and, more important still, the upper articular surface of the astragalus becomes altered both in shape and structure. The chief change takes place in its anterior part where the cartilage which normally covers it becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and that portion of the articular surface which, owing to the new position of the foot, is now out of contact with the lower end of the tibia, becomes considerably enlarged, so that it is impossible for the astragalus to pass back into its proper position, even when all the other causes producing the deformity have been removed. TREATMENT.—From the point of view of treatment we may divide talipes equinus into three classes, (i) The mild cases, in which the foot cannot be flexed beyond a right angle, but in which there is no contraction of any other structures than the calf muscles. (2) The more severe cases, in which the heel is considerably drawn up and in which at the same time there is secondary contraction of other structures, such as the plantar fascia, the posterior ligament of the ankle joint, and possibly also some of the tendons already mentioned. (3) The most severe cases of all, in which the elevation of the heel is extreme, and in which the affection has lasted long enough for profound alterations to have occurred in the bones and in the articular surfaces, and where, therefore, the re-position of the foot is a matter of extreme difficulty.