350 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. the vessels are fully exposed (see Fig. 127). The wound is then retracted by broad copper spatulas, the sheath of the artery opened in front by ■a small incision, and the aneurysm needle gradually insinuated around it from within outwards. In Astley Cooper's operation the cord and the vas are displaced upwards and inwards along with the transversalis fascia, and the only structure requiring special attention is the genito-crural nerve. After the vessel has been ligatured the peritoneum is replaced and the muscles stitched up in layers by means of mattrass stitches of silk (see Figs. 124 and 125), -and the skin brought together by a continuous suture. No drainage tube is required. After-treatment.—After the operation the whole lower extremity should be carefully disinfected with turpentine and strong mixture in the usual manner (see Part I., p. 161), wrapped up in a large mass of salicylic wool and somewhat elevated upon a pillow; sandbags are applied along the side of the trunk to keep the patient still, while great care is taken to see that there is no constriction anywhere in the limb and no undue pressure, especially about the heel. The object of this is of course to obviate or delay the occurrence of sepsis should gangrene result from the ligature of the main vessel. The time at which the patient may be allowed to move about and sit up will be mentioned when we speak of popliteal aneurysm. The collateral cirailatiofi after ligature of the external iliac artery is ■carried on essentially by means of the internal ihac trunk, the branches of which anastomose below with branches of the common femoral, the pro- funda femoris, and the popliteal. The circulation is still further aided by the deep epigastric and the circumflex iliac arteries which communicate with the internal mammary and the lumbar vessels. When the common iliac trunk is ligatured, the anastomosis is particularly bad, and it depends essentially upon anastomosis between the internal mammary artery above with the deep epigastric below, on that of the lumbar arteries with the circumflex iliac, and on the communications between the two internal iliac vessels. FEMORAL ANEURYSM. This may be situated upon the common or the superficial femoral artery, but as a rule when the term "femoral aneurysm" is used an aneurysm of the superficial femoral artery is implied, the term generally applied to aneurysm of the external iliac trunk or the adjacent part of the common 'femoral artery being " inguinal aneurysm." Aneurysm of the profunda branch of the femoral artery is extremely rare. Aneurysm of the superficial femoral may occur either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal; it is perhaps more frequent in the former situation. In either case, when it attains any large size, it may cause serious pressure symptoms and may produce marked oedema of the limb from pressure on