246 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. as quickly as possible; in the instance before us an incision should be made over the fracture, the nerve exposed above and below the callus, and traced over or through it. In any case, the new bone that is exerting the pressure must be chipped away, but in doing this special care must of course be taken not to divide the nerve as it runs through the callus. Not only should the main trunk be freed from the pressure, but any of its branches which may have become involved should be followed out and similarly set free. After the nerve has been cleared by the removal of the callus it is well to grasp it above and below the seat of compression and stretch it in situ so as to rupture any new connective tissue which may surround it. If the cause of compression be a new growth, the treatment must natur- ally be directed to the removal of the growth. When a simple tumour presses upon a nerve trunk it must be removed without dividing the nerve. When the nerve is in the interior of the growth, the former must be shelled out in a manner similar to that adopted for nerves involved in callus; when this is done the growth is removed. Should, however, the growth be malignant, the portion of the nerve implicated in it must be cut away, and if the condition of the parts permits, immediate suture of the divided ends by one of the methods to be described immediately (see p. 251) should be practised. When a cicatrix is causing compression of a main nerve trunk, the latter, together with any branches that may be involved, must be freed in the same manner as when the compression is caused by callus. This should be followed, as in the case of compression by callus, by nerve stretching so as to tear through any bands of fibrous tissue which may have been overlooked. When only the terminal filaments of the nerve are involved in cicatricial tissue, the best plan is to dissect out the scar freely; this of course removes the ends of the nerves that are pressed upon. The wound is then closed either by means of a plastic operation or by immediate skin-grafting; by this means union by first intention and a correspondingly small amount of fresh cicatricial tissue are obtained. This must be done early in the case, before the neuritis has become established in the nerve trunk; if not, the operation will be quite useless. The plan described in some text books of dividing the filaments of the nerve going to the scar, by means of a tenotomy knife introduced beneath it, is very inefficient, because in the first place one very often fails to divide all the involved filaments, and in the second the divided nerves are likely to re-unite, when the patient's troubles will recur. (d) Where the Cause cannot be removed.—When it is impossible to remove the cause of compression, the treatment will depend upon whether a motor or a sensory nerve is involved. If it be a motor nerve alone, no interference is called for, but if a sensory or a mixed nerve be affected, the compression may lead to such severe pain and hyperaesthesia, and is also so prone to set up an ascending neuritis, that something must be done