28 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. interphalangeal. This can be done quite easily by slipping the tenotomy knife into the joint and dividing the ligaments. After all the tense fascial bands have been divided, the finger is put firmly upon the stretch and the palm kneaded, so as to rupture any fibres that may have escaped division. In doing this it is often found necessary to re-introduce the tenotomy knife, and to divide some tight band that has not previously been noticed. A pad of antiseptic gauze is then placed in the palm, and the hand put up on a palmar splint (see Fig. i8) which is padded especially thickly beneath the fingers, so as to produce good extension when the hand is bandaged down to it. Care must, however, be taken not to extend the fingers unduly when the contraction is great and the skin much thickened, partly because considerable pain would be caused and Fig. i8.—Dupuytren's Contraction. Splint for use immediately after Sub- cutaneous Division of the Fascia. This is a very useful form, as it is made of light metal well padded, and can therefore be bent somewhat should it be difficult to get the finger straight immediately after the operation ; it can then be straightened out gradually later on as the finger stretches. (After Adams.) partly because the skin may be tightly stretched and slough, since its vitality has been considerably interfered with by the operation. In bad cases it is better, therefore, to leave the fingers somewhat flexed for the first 24 or 48 hours, and then gradually to increase the extension. This can easily be done by readjusting the splint and increasing the padding, or by fastening the metacarpals to the splint by an elastic bandage, so as gradually to press the palm down flat upon the splint, the fingers being separated from it by the padding. In the course of a week or so the fingers should have become so stretched as to be rather over- extended. At first the splint must be worn night and day for three or four weeks; at the end of that time a dorsal splint may be substituted for it. The best form of dorsal splint is one which takes purchase from the lower part of the forearm about three or four inches above the wrist, and is fastened round the latter with suitable straps. From this point the splint should extend over the inner side of the dorsum of the hand as far down as the knuckles, and from this main piece separate prolongations, one for each of the affected fingers, arise. These prolongations are bent somewhat backwards from the main portion of the splint, so that when the fingers