TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. to give the patient relief. If the case be left alone, not only is the pain intolerable, but the neuritis set up by the compression is very apt to spread up the trunk and involve other branches of the nerve, and thus to extend the painful area widely. Under these circumstances the advisability of dividing the nerve above the area of compression must always be considered, and if this be decided upon, it is found by experience better to cut out a portion of the nerve than to be content with a simple division—in other words, tieurectomy rather than neurotomy is the better operation. In a mixed nerve this pro- cedure of course abolishes completely the motor as well as the sensory functions, but, when the nerve is badly compressed, paralysis of motion is probably already present, and the abolition of sensation is only what is desired by the patient. Wherever possible, therefore, the nerve should be exposed above the seat of compression, and a portion removed; but in some cases this is not possible. For example, when an inoperable intra-pelvic tumour presses upon the sacral plexus, the latter cannot be exposed above the seat of pressure. Under those circumstances, however, and also in cases where the pain has recurred after a previous neurectomy, it may be quite legitimate, if the patient be suffering intense agony, to open the spinal canal and divide the posterior nerve roots. If this be done, it has been found as a matter of experience that it is well not merely to divide the posterior nerve root, but also to remove a portion of it including the ganglion. This operation will be described later (see p. 265). Lastly, when operative interference is not possible or desirable, the surgeon must be content to relieve the pain by means of anodynes, such as injections of morphine or cocaine. When the compression is caused by a malignant tumour, which before long will cause the patient's death, there need be no hesitation in resorting early and freely to the use of these remedies, but when the cause of compression is a simple one and is not likely to destroy life, they should only be employed with great reluctance,, on account of the risk of setting up a morphia or cocaine habit; their use is only permissible when it is quite certain that the symptoms cannot be relieved by any form of operation. As a preliminary to the more powerful anodynes, a trial may be made of antipyrine (5 to 20-grain doses), methylene blue (3 grains in pill form), quinine (3 to 5-grain doses), Fowler's solution of arsenic (3 to 12 minim doses), or salicylate of soda (5 to lo-grain doses), either alone or in various combinations. CONTUSION OR RUPTURE OF NERVES. —A nerve may be contused or ruptured by the sudden application of a force which either compresses it violently against a bone or else stretches it so as to lead to partial or complete rupture. Actual rupture of a nerve is extremely difficult to produce, and usually the most that happens is that the nerve is violently stretched, and some of the fibres only are torn. Pathological Changes.—The changes which take place when a nerve is contused or stretched are rupture of some of the fibres, effusion of blood