SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. restoration of the motor function is practically as long as if several months had intervened. The reason is that degeneration of the filaments in the distal end takes place more or less simultaneously throughout, and restora- tion of function must occur by growth downwards of new fibres from the proximal end. This is naturally a slow process, and as much as two years has been known to elapse after nerve-suture before complete restoration of the motor functions; the time required will vary according to the length of the distal portion; the longer the latter, the slower the restoration. In any case the process will take some months, and the patient need not abandon hope, nor should the use of electricity and massage to the muscles be given up, until at least two years have elapsed from the time of the operation. When a nerve has been only partially divided it must be remembered that, as healing occurs, the compression of the cicatricial tissue may lead to complete loss of function of the entire nerve, owing to the fact that the contraction of the new fibrous tissue may cause pressure upon and finally atrophy of the portion undamaged at the time of injury. This is a point of some medico-legal importance in cases where complete loss of function has occurred, but where at the time of the injury the nerve did not appear to be divided. Under these circumstances, of course, the restora- tion of function may be obtained by the removal of the newly formed cicatricial tissue. Treatment.— In all cases where nerves are divided strict asepsis must be aimed at; this is of the highest importance, both with the view of obviating the occurrence of neuritis, and also of reducing to a minimum the amount of cicatricial tissue which must form between the divided ends, and which if large in quantity might lead to severe compression of the nerve trunk. Further, any foreign body present in the wound must, of course, be removed. (1) Partial Division.—When on examination it is found that the nerve is only partially divided, the best plan is to bring the two divided portions into direct contact and secure them by means of one or two fine catgut sutures introduced through the sheath of the nerve. No doubt it is some- times tempting in these cases to leave the divided portion unsutured, and to hope that union will progress satisfactorily because a portion of the nerve remains intact. Unless, however, the divided portion be brought into accurate contact and secured by sutures, the downward growth of new nerve fibrils, by means of which regeneration of function has to take place, is apt to be very irregular, and, owing to the curling up of the divided portion, the new nerve fibrils may entirely miss' the sheath of the distal portion. (2) Complete Division.—Wherever a nerve is completely divided^ suture of the two ends is the only possible treatment. The steps of the operation, however, differ according to the period at which the operation is done, and we shall therefore discuss separately the treatment of recent cases and those in which some time has elapsed since division.