TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 233 Lastly, in some cases where attempts at union of the divided ends have proved fruitless, both ends of the divided tendon have been attached to the scar, so that when the muscle contracts it pulls upon the scar and, Fig. 83.—Ten DON Grafting; Lateral Fig. 84.—Tendon Grafting ; I m plan- Attachment. The distal end of the tation Method. Here the distal end of divided tendon 5 is refreshed and .ittached the divided tendon ^ has been made raw to a previously prepared raw surface made on all its surfaces, and is implanted into on the lateral aspect of the sound tendon the sound tendon A which has been split A. to receive it. through this, upon the distal end of the tendon. This method is of course very inefficient and should only be adopted where nothing else can be done. In all cases any scar tissue present should be dissected out as completely as possible; as a matter of fact, it is usually found that the uninjured tendons act better after an operation has been performed to unite the divided one, because the former are generally to a certain extent interfered with in their action by adhesions to the scar tissue, and these are of course removed by dissection. RUPTURE OF TENDONS.—Solution of continuity in a tendon without any breach of the skin may occur as a result of irregular and violent muscular contraction. For example, when a person in falling tries to retain his balance, he sometimes ruptures the ligamentum patellse; indeed, this is more common than rupture of the quadriceps extensor muscle itself. Other tendons which are frequently ruptured are the tendo Achillis, about an inch and a half from its insertion into the os calcis, and the long head of the biceps cubiti. Treatment.—This may be either by means of position, in which the object is to bring the ends into as good apposition as possible, or by operation, in which the ends of the tendon are stitched together. In deciding upon the method to adopt, a good deal will depend upon the tendon ruptured, and the exact point at which the rupture has occurred. For example, rupture of the tendo Achillis is very readily followed by union without any need for operative interference; this is explained by the fact that the tendon runs in loose cellular tissue. On the