2 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. or without a proper articulation. In some cases there is no trace of a joint at all, the union between the surplus digit and the metacarpal bone being simply by means of fibrous tissue; in others there is a distinct well-formed joint on the lateral surface of the metacarpal bone, furnished with articular cartilage, ligaments, etc. In other cases again the condition is apparently that of bilid finger, and this is more especially the case in the thumb; the terminal phalanx may then be split and two phalanges may be present, each possessing a separate nail (see Fig. i). Frequently, however, the division in the terminal phalanx does not extend completely through its whole length, but only affects the tip; the base of the phalanx is then single and undivided. Fig. I.—Diagrams to illustrate the different Forms of Superfluous Digits. A, The simplest form, in which the connection between the digit and the rest of the hand is of skin and fibrous tissue only. B, The form in which there is a distinct articular surface on the lateral aspect of the metacarpal bone. C, The one in which there is a snpernnmerary metacarpal bone as well as the phalanges. D, One form of bifid terminal phalanx. Here the bone is only partially clelt, and it will be noticed that neither of its component parts is in a straight line with the first phalanx. TREATMENT.—The removal of the surplus digit is of course the only remedy for this condition. In the case of the toes it is not usually a matter of any great consequence if the offending member be retained, but in the hand the additional finger is very unsightly and ought, if possible, to be taken away. The operation should be carried out in early life, as otherwise the ultimate result will not be nearly so satisfactory. {a) When the digit is quite separate from its neighbour and is only connected with the side of the metacarpal bone by fibrous tissue (see Fig. I, A) the result of amputation is quite perfect; it is only necessary to make an elliptical incision around the digit where it springs from the metacarpal bone, and then to remove it and the fibrous band connecting it with the bone. With a nicely planned incision and primary union, a perfectly level surface will be left, showing no trace of the additional finger.