DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. 31 This is largely due to the fact that the skin is shortened by the disease both in the transverse and the longitudinal directions. It is, however, necessary to stitch the skin together as closely as possible, and immediate skin-grafting should be employed for any raw surface left. It is imperative that no granulating surface should remain, as otherwise the scar which forms will materially hamper the progress of the case. The after-treat- ment is exactly the same as that described for subcutaneous tenotomy. {d) In the other operation, a V-shaped incision is made in the palm and carried through both skin and fascia. The apex of the V should Fig. 21.—Thk V-Shaped Oferation for Dupuytren's Contraction. A shows the hand after the incision has been made through the fascia and the finger straightened. The raw surface thus left is closed by employing sutures in the manner shown in B, There is often a small raw surface left at the junction of the three limbs of the Y ; this should be covered by a skin graft. be opposite the centre of the base of the finger which is most con- tracted, and from this point incisions are carried upwards into the palm on each side, diverging from each other and ending about the transverse crease (see Fig. 21, A). The incisions are carried down through skin and fascia, the latter being completely divided, and no attempt is made to separate the former from the latter. The finger can then be stretched out without tearing through or dividing any tight bands. After the finger is brought straight a large triangular wound is left in the palm, but this can generally be stitched together if the skin be at all supple, so that little or no raw surface is left. The sides of the wound are brought together by stitches, and the apex of the V fits in between them where they diverge higher up (see Fig. 21, B), so that there is complete closure of the wound. In some cases the skin is not sufficiently elastic and a certain amount of raw surface is left, which should be immediately covered with a skin graft.