84 CLUB-FOOT. usually escapes tearing when the foot is wrenched, and may materially interfere with the reposition of the os calcis. Parker also lays great stress on what he terms the " astragalo-scaphoid capsule," which is made up, above and internally, of the superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament reinforced by fibres from the anterior ligament of the ankle joint and the anterior portion of the deltoid ligament, and, below, of fibres from the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Syndesmotomy.—Under this name, Parker has described an operation by which both tendons and ligaments may be divided through one. incision. He makes a puncture a little below and in front of the tip of the internal malleolus, noting at the same time the position of the tibial arteries, and the direction of the tibial tendons as they curve towards the internal cuneiform bone. As the tenotomy knife is entered, the parts are fully relaxed, and it is pushed inwards over the dorsum just above the posterior tibial artery, and in front of the tendons, to a point just short of the anterior tibial vessel. Parker employs at first a sharp-pointed tenotome to make the track along which he then introduces a curved one until its tip can be felt in front of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The cutting edge is then turned downwards, the parts fully put on the stretch, and the tibialis anticus tendon divided; as the knife cuts down on the subjacent bones and cartilage, the ligaments yield, while, on withdrawing the knife, the tendon of the tibialis posticus is divided. The essential point in this operation is, of course, the division of the liga- ments, and this must be carried out very thoroughly. Should the tibialis posticus not be satisfactorily divided on the withdrawal of the knife, it can readily be done afterwards by a separate incision in the manner already described (see p. 82). Wreiiching.—After these structures have been divided, the foot should be thoroughly wrenched into position, and the deformity over-corrected; that is to say, the foot should be brought into a position of full abduction and eversion. If this can be effected by the hand, it is best, because the surgeon is then enabled to judge how much force he is employing, and at the same time there is not that bruising of the anterior part of the foot, which is almost a necessary accompaniment of the use of wrenches. On the other hand, when the foot is very small, it is difficult to get a proper hold of it, and, therefore, it may be necessary to employ come instrument to take its place, the best of these being Thomas's wrench (see Fig. 40). It is composed of two parallel metal bars covered with a thick india-rubber casing, and the bars can be approximated or separated by means of a screw in the handle of the wrench. One bar is placed transversely beneath the sole of the foot, just behind the ball of the great toe, whilst the other lies parallel to it over the dorsum. The bars are then approximated until the foot is well grasped, and it is then possible to manipulate the foot with the greatest ease. After-treatment.—When all the resisting structures (except, of course, the tendo Achillis) have been divided, a collodion dressing should be applied over the tenotomy puncture, and the foot temporarily fixed on a splint. For