330 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. been injured during the operation, it is unnecessary to remove the sac unless it be of considerable size, and has caused much pain from pressure. In the latter case it is well to open it and clear out the contents, and to ligature the external carotid beyond the sac and any branches given off from it. (b) Distal.—When the aneurysm is situated at the commencement of the carotid trunk, distal ligature (above the omo-hyoid muscle) is the only operation that can be performed. The success of this procedure is of course not nearly so certain as when the proximal ligature is employed. In it also there are the same risks of subsequent cerebral disturbance. ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The external carotid is very rarely affected except as the result of extension of an aneurysm of the common trunk; when therefore aneurysm is met with in this vessel, it is usually situated in its lower part, just above the bifurcation. In other cases it may be situated somewhat higher up, and then shows itself as a swelling about the angle of the jaw. The pressure effects produced by it are not so severe as in the case of aneurysm of the common carotid, the most striking being those due to pressure upon the hypoglossal nerve. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection should if possible be ligature of the artery below the aneurysm; if the aneurysm be small, the artery may be tied at its origin, the aneurysmal sac opened, and a ligature applied to any branches given off from it. Wherever it can be avoided the surgeon should not ligature the common carotid trunk, but sometimes this will be absolutely necessary. When it is possible to get at the external carotid and apply a ligature to it, this should be done between the bifurcation of the common trunk and the origin of the first branch of the external. On account of the free collateral circulation it is also generally advisable to tie the more accessible branches of the external carotid, more particularly the superior thyroid and the lingual vessels at the same time; if possible the facial should also be included. Ligature of the External Carotid.—The operation for ligature of the artery is done as follows. The neck should be thrown well back over a sandbag and the head turned towards the opposite side. An incision is made over the line of the artery which runs from the angle of the jaw downwards and forwards to join the line of the common carotid trunk opposite the upper part of the thyroid cartilage. The incision divides the skin, platysma, and superficial fascia. A few superficial veins are secured, the deep fascia opened, and the guides to the artery felt for. The first guide is the great cornu of the hyoid bone, above which the surgeon should make out the posterior belly of the digastric muscle (see Fig. io8). The cellular tissue is then separated with a blunt dissector, so as to expose the vessel, which can generally be readily traced from its point of origin upwards and inwards