47 CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT. cases, the usual deformity seen is talipes equinus, which is due to the natural pointing of the toes, aided in many cases by the weight of the bed-clothes. Again, in cases of marked ricketty curvatures of the lower extremity, there is often some form of talipes present, particularly talipes valgus. The affection may also occur as the result of ostitis, and this is most frequendy seen in cases of acute osteo-myelitis affecting only one of the bones of the leg. Here the disease may cause the destruction of the epiphyseal line in the affected bone, so that there is arrest of growth in it; the result is that, as the other bone grows, the foot will be displaced and talipes mil ensue. TREATMENT.—General Indications.—From the point of view of treatment the causation of the affection is of the first importance. If the affection be of congenital origin, the treatment in the earlier stages need not be directed so much against contraction of the tendons as against the alterations which have occurred in the shape of the bones, and its aim must be to rectify by suitable position the altered direction of the bones whilst they are still soft and capable of being influenced. If, however, the condition remains untreated until later life, a satisfactory result may only be obtainable by means of some operation dealing directly with the bones. In the case of the acquired variety on the other hand, the primary lesions are usually situated in the muscles and soft parts, and the alteration in the shape and structure of the bones only occurs when the deformity has been allowed to continue for a considerable time; hence, the chief attention in the early stage must be directed to the condition of the muscles and ligaments. In the spastic cases, means must be taken to relieve the spasm, while at the same time division of some of the tendons may be necessary. Where the club-foot is of paralytic origin, the chief point in the treatment is to restore the power of the muscles by such means as massage, electricity, and the use of suitable apparatus to prevent over-stretching of the weak muscles and undue contraction of the sound ones. Where the affection is caused by cicatrices, the source of contraction must be removed or neutralized; similarly with other forms of the affection. In all cases, the earlier the treatment is begun, the better is the prospect of a good result, for, as has already been said, if treatment be neglected in the early stages, whatever may have been the primary lesion causing the mischief, the final result is alteration in the shape of the bones and the direction of the articular surfaces, shortening of ligaments, tendons, etc.,—a condition in which simple division of tendons or ligaments, manipulations, and the use of apparatus fail to restore the foot to its proper position, and in which some much more severe measures must be had recourse to. A.—CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT. General Points in the Treatment.—These cases fall into three distinct groups. (i) Those in which the deformity can be completely