TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 245 the nerve has been very markedly disorganized. In some cases, however, weeks or even months may elapse before recovery is complete. Usually in such accidents as pressure on the musculo-spiral nerve from the edge of a table, etc., recovery begins in about three weeks, and is complete in five or six; but, on the other hand, where the compression has been very severe, months, or even a year or two, may elapse before the nerve regains its normal condition. During the interval preceding recovery it is extremely important to maintain the nutrition both of the nerve itself and of the parts supplied by it. The nutrition of the nerve trunk itself is improved and the restoration of its functions expedited by the use of the galvanic current, using in the first place a mild current of not more than five milliamperes for about ten minutes, and gradually increasing it in strength up to ten as is found desirable. The current should flow downwards in the course of the nerve : i.e. the positive electrode is applied to the spine while the negative is on the affected nerve near its termination. It is also well to have a key in the circuit so that the current can be opened or closed at intervals; this produces muscular action, and thus helps to keep up the tone of the muscles. The nutrition of the muscles supplied by the nerve must also be maintained by suitable massage, and steps must be taken to prevent contracture, which is very apt to occur in consequence of the loss of the nerve supply; unless proper steps be taken to prevent it, this may be permanent even after the nerve has completely recovered its functions. The use of massage to a paralyzed muscle is of the very highest value, as it improves its circulation, gets rid of waste products, and thus promotes its nutrition. The Faradic current, used in a strength sufficient to keep the muscle gently in action, but not strong enough to exhaust it, is also very useful. Should, however, the muscle begin to show signs of "the reaction of degeneration" {i.e. loss of contractility to the Faradic current with coincident increase of contractility to the galvanic current), the gal- vanic current ought to be employed; under these circumstances the circuit should be furnished with a key for opening and closing the current fre- quently {vide supra). At the same time active and passive movements of the affected limb should be encouraged, passive motion especially being diligently practised with the view of preventing contractures and adhesions in the neighbouring joints. It is well also to place the limb on a splint, during the night, in such a position as to oppose the tendency to con- tracture. Careful treatment on these lines should be persevered in until the functions of the nerve have been restored, however long a time may elapse before the restoration occurs; if not, it may be found that by the time the nerve has regained its functions the parts on which it acts have become irretriev- ably damaged. (c) Where the Compression still continues.—When, for example, the nerve is involved in callus, steps must be taken to relieve the compression