TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 255 the manner described for primary nerve-suture (see p. 251). An ordinary round sewing needle is employed, one stitch is passed through the centre of the two portions of the nerve so as to steady them, and then a number of strands of catgut are passed through the sheaths of the two ends and tied. When the interval has been thus more or less completely bridged over, the bone tube is slipped down into position over the catgut and left there (see Fig. 90); the wound is stitched up without a drainage tube, which is unnecessary if the haemorrhage be properly arrested. The limb is then put in a poroplastic splint moulded so as to relax the parts as much as possible, and after a lapse of ten days the sutures are taken out of the skin wound, which by this time should have healed; the limb may gradually be extended, the splint being finally left off at about the end of six weeks. As in cases of primary nerve-suture, massage, galvanism, and passive motion should then be employed until either the functions of the nerve are restored, or until it is obvious that no good results will accrue. In any case many months will have to elapse before the final result can be ascertained. Nerve-grafting.—The method of grafting a portion of nerve from one of the lower animals into the gap between the divided ends is very uncertain in its results, and in no way better than that just described. As a matter of fact, the graft itself does not live; it merely acts as a connecting medium along which the new nerve fibres from the upper end are enabled to reach the distal portion—a result equally well produced by the method we have just described. Excision of bone.—In some cases when the interval between the cut ends is more than two inches, and when the condition of the part allows of it, a portion of the bone may be excised and the limb shortened so as to bring the divided ends of the nerve together. For instance, when one of the nerves in the upper arm has been divided and there is a large gap between the divided ends, a portion of the humerus can be excised so as to allow the divided ends to come properly together. The union of the nerve is of such great importance to the usefulness of the limb that no hesitation need be felt about undertaking an operation of this kind in suitable cases. The incisions in the bone should be oblique, and the divided ends of the bone are wired or screwed together afterwards. Nerve implantatio7i.—The method of implanting one nerve into another has been tried in several cases, but the results attending it are very disheartening. The operation may be carried out in one of two ways. For example, a case in which the median nerve has been divided and the ulnar nerve is intact may be taken as an illustration. In the first method the upper end of the median is refreshed in the ordinary manner, and is then implanted into the ulnar by making an incision into the sheath of the latter at one side, inserting the end of the median into the opening thus made and attaching the two nerves together by fine catgut sutures passed through the adjacent portions of the sheath. The lower end is then