VARICOSE VEINS. 287 should be marked out before the patient is placed ur\der the anajsthetic; this is best done by a solution of nitrate of silver. The best plan is to draw a line over the portions of the veins to be removed, with a camel's hair brush dipped in a solution of nitrate of silver (30 to 60 grains to the ounce) the day before the operation, when the patient is in the upright position, and then to leave the part exposed to the light. In this way a sufficient staining of the skin is obtained, which will not be efifaced by the most energetic disinfection. If an ordinary flesh pencil or aniline dye be used, the stain is almost sure to be rubbed off, especially by the turpentine, while the skin is being disinfected. On no account should a stronger solution be employed than the one recommended above, or blistering or even deep-seated sloughing of the skin may result. This definition of the veins to be excised is a most important point; much time is saved, and bleeding often avoided by its use. The operation consists in the removal of a portion of the veins at the various points thus marked out. The larger the portions removed at any one point, and the more branches that can be included in the area of the operation the better. Strict asepsis is imperative, for the slightest amount of suppuration occurring along the stitch tracks may entirely vitiate the success of the operation, either from septic thrombosis or by leading to a septic condition of the wound, which, owing to the varicose condition of the parts, will be very slow in healing. The limb should first be shaved and most thoroughly disinfected in the manner already described (see Part I., p. 161). After the patient has been anaesthetised, the limb is raised, rotated outwards, the knee flexed and steadied upon a suitable sandbag, and an incision two or three inches in length made over the portion of the vein to be removed. The group of veins highest up the limb should be first removed; for example, the first operation should be the removal of the internal saphena close to the groin, those about the knee and leg being excised after this is done. If it be intended to remove a mass of tortuous and dilated veins completely, the incision may be a semicircular one, but care must be taken not to raise too large a flap, as the skin is usually so extremely thin over the vein that there is danger of its sloughing from want of proper blood supply. When a long straight portion of the vein is to be removed (as in the case of the internal saphena), the incision should lie directly over the long axis of the vein. When only small portions of a vein are to be excised, the incision may either be made directly over the portions to be removed, or it may run somewhat obliquely to the long axis of the vessel. The skin incision must be made cleanly with a very sharp scalpel, and at right angles to the surface of the skin, and care must be taken not to go so deep as to wound the vein. The difficulty of the operation is greatly increased if any accidental puncture of the vein should occur; as long as this is avoided the operation, though somewhat tedious, is fairly simple. After the skin and fat have been divided, the vein is seen to stand out,