CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 139 the head itself is usually considerably altered in shape. The main enlarge- ment of the cavity should be made at its posterior and upper part, and, should the head of the femur be markedly flattened and mushroom-shaped, enough of it should be pared away with a chisel or gouge to make it of a more convenient shape and size for reception into the new acetabulum. This is a much better plan than making the acetabulum sufficiently large to receive the enlarged head. The head of the bone is next got into position by extending and rotating the limb outwards; the latter is kept abducted and fully extended with a moderate degree of outward rotation. In sewing up the wound it is well to attempt to stitch together the remains of the fascial tissues over the head and neck of the bone so as to lay the foundation of a new capsular ligament. After the wound has been sutured and the usual cyanide dressings applied, the limb is put up in a plaster of Paris spica in the position above mentioned, and it should be kept in this for about six weeks, at the end of which time the stitches are taken out and careful passive movement is commenced, the patient being kept in bed meanwhile. After the lapse of a week or ten days, a second plaster of Paris casing may be applied, with the limb in a position of slightly less abduction than before, and the case may now be treated on lines exactly similar to those for the second stage of the bloodless method (see p. 136). Eesults.—The results of these operations are not very good; there is some improvement no doubt, and a much more stable limb is obtained, but, although at first promising, the final result is by no means perfect, and there is often a gradual increase in the deformity. Mr. Arbuthnot Lane tries to replace an insecure joint by a firmer one which is fashioned from beneath the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium. A preliminary tenotomy of any tight structures should be practised, and the shortened tissues stretched by suitable manipulations. A free vertical incision is made over the great trochanter, and if more room be required it is obtained by a cut carried horizontally backwards from the first at about the level of its upper border. The soft parts are retracted, the capsule opened, and a cavity gouged out from the innominate bone immediately beneath the anterior inferior spine. The head of the bone, trimmed, if necessary, to a better shape, is placed in this, and the anterior portion of the capsule, which has been previously separated from the acetabulum, is sewn to the fibrous structures around the anterior inferior spine and the origin of the short head of the rectus femoris. The results of this operation are, however, so far as we have seen, in no way superior to those of the other operations; it is perhaps more likely to be successful in bi-Iateral cases than in unilateral ones, as its principal aim is to remedy the lordosis by carrying the axis of rotation of the pelvis horizontally forwards. Summary of Treatment.—We recommend, therefore, that when the case is seen in infancy the treatment by manipulation (see p. 131) should