CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. 99 Should the leg be bowed outwards as well as forwards, a second splint must be applied to the inner side of the limb, and these splints may either be fastened together or, better, should be put on indepen- dently. The mechanical treatment of this particular form of deformity is, however, very unsatisfactory, and in most cases operation will be called for after the acute stage of the rickets has passed off. Should the concavity of the curve be outwards, a straight splint should be applied with the same precautions to the outer side of the limb and the bones drawn outwards to it. In any case the use of the splints must be continued for a very prolonged period. The reduction of the deformity can only be carried out extremely gradually, owing to the risk of producing pressure sores, and several months must elapse before the patient can be allowed to stand or walk; indeed, the splints should not be abandoned until the child is four or five years of age—not, in fact, until all signs of active rickets have disappeared, and the bones have undergone consolidation. 3. In cases of marked curvature where the bones have imdergone solidification (as is usually the case in children over the age of four or five), and generally in most cases where the curve is an antero-posterior one, some form of operative procedure is advisable. The chance of bringing the limb straight by splints is extremely shght under these conditions, and, generally speaking, it is a waste of time and money to persevere with them. The exact nature of the operation will be determined of course by the precise form and extent of the curve; the seat of the operation will also to some extent be determined by the same factors. When there is a general concavity of the tibia inwards, division of the bones should be practised about the centre of the curve. When the latter is distinctly limited to either the upper or lower part of the bone, the point of division should be opposite the point of greatest curvature. In the cases of acute antero-posterior curvature at the lower end, the bone should be divided at the acute angle formed by the curve. Several points require consideration in connection with the operation. Thus the surgeon may be content either with simply dividing the bone, that is to say, performing a linear osteotomy, or he may remove a wedge- shaped portion from it. It is also important to consider whether the fibula requires division or not. As regards the latter point, it may be said at once that sometimes the fibula is so soft that it is quite unneces- sary to divide it; frequently it can be bent without being broken, and at most a greenstick fracture may be produced by bringing the limb into proper position. When either of these procedures can be carried out it is of course of considerable advantage, as there is only a single wound, and a fairly strong bone is left to act as a splint to the other. When, however, the ricketty condition has passed off and the bones have under- gone complete consolidation, and more particularly in the case of the antero-posterior curvatures at the lower end of the bone, it may be neces-