DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. 27 for a long time, there is marked secondary contraction of the ligaments of the various articulations that have been kept flexed, and these structures will require division before the fingers can be brought into proper position. TREATMENT.—Nothing but operative interference is likely to be successful. Attempts to prevent or overcome the deformity by stretching the fascia by splints, elastic traction, and the like, merely cause great pain, irritate the fascia, and lead to a rapid increase in the contraction. At the same time it must be admitted that the operative treatment of this condition is not so satisfactory in its results as could be wished, because there is always a marked tendency to the reproduction of the deformity. The operative treatment may be carried out subcutaneously or by means of open incisions. (i) Subcutaneous division of the palmar fascia and the processes connected with it is the method most commonly employed, but it is not always the most satisfactory. Before performing this, or indeed any operation upon the palm, certain preliminary steps should be taken to soften the skin as much as possible. They should be persevered with for several days beforehand, and should take the form of frequent soaking of the palm in water as hot as can be borne, washing with soft soda-soap, and frequent inunctions of glycerine, vaseline, or lanoline. The inunction should be done by a process analogous to the kneading process of massage (see Part I., p. 22). The operation itself must he carried out with scrupulous regard to antiseptic precautions, the skin being purified in the manner described for the disinfection of the skin in general (see Part I., p. 161). A tenotomy knife with a very small cutting blade is cautiously insinuated into the fat between the skin and the fascia with its blade parallel to the surface of the latter; the cutting edge is then turned towards the fascia, and the contracted bands (which are rendered evident by traction upon the finger) are divided one after the other, the knife being pushed in various directions according to their situation. As a rule a good many punctures are required, and the fascia must be scored in all directions. The principal seat of division will be in the digital processes, so that the punctures are generally made between the transverse crease of the palm and the line of the first interphalangeal joint. Where there is also puckering of the skin, the knife should be swept between the skin and the fascia, with the blade parallel to the surface of the latter, so as to free the adherent portions. The operation should be carried out with the greatest care and thoroughness, and considerable time has usually to be spent over it; from half to three-quarters of an hour is not at all infrequently required to find and divide all the tight bands of fascia present. It is no good whatever to attempt to cure the affection by simply dividing the fascia by one or two transverse divisions of the main contracted mass. In bad cases it will be necessary, in addition to the division of the fascia, to cut the ligaments of the affected joints, particularly the first