332 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. toms of these two forms of aneurysm are very similar. When the aneurysm occurs in the third portion of the artery it spreads downwards towards the axillary trunk, and gives rise to pressure symptoms upon the brachial plexus and severe pain about the shoulder; there is also engorge- ment of the veins in the arm, with very considerable oedema from pressure upon the veins in the vicinity. TREATMENT.—The treatment of aneurysm of the third part of the subclavian has up to the present been very unsuccessful. Of the measures employed, we may mention ligature of the innominate, the first part of the subclavian artery or of the axillary; amputation of the upper extremity; and various palliative measures, such as galvano-puncture, the introduction of needles, etc., which are employed when ligature in con- tinuity is not feasible. Ligature of the innominate artery or the first part of the subclavian has proved almost invariably fatal from secondary haemorrhage, but there seems reason to believe that, with the more recent advances in surgery, this risk will not be so great in future, and, as a matter of fact, the first part of the subclavian has now been tied with success. Ligature of the innominate artery is much more easily done in these cases than ligature of the first part of the subclavian, on account of the proximity of the aneurysm; if the innominate be tied it is well also to tie the common carotid at the same time. Unless this be done,, blood passes down the carotid into the subclavian and so on to the aneurysm, while the risk of haemorrhage from the seat of ligature of the innominate is also greater. Ligature of the Innominate Artery, combined with a similar operation on the common carotid, is performed as follows. The shoulders are raised by a sandbag of suitable size which throws the head and neck well back and brings the innominate artery to some extent up into the neck. It is essential for the success of the operation that the light should be good, and a powerful electric light will be required in the later stages to illuminate the depths of the wound. It is most convenient for the surgeon to stand on the patient's left side, as a better view of the wound will be thus obtained. The incision should be made in the middle line, the advantage of this being that the muscles are then merely pulled aside; after the operation they resume their place and leave no cavity behind, so that drainage is not necessary and primary union occurs rapidly—a point of very considerable importance in these cases. The median incision also gives better access to the vessel than any other, and it is quite easy to tie the carotid artery through it as well. The incision should commence at the cricoid cartilage, and extend downwards in the middle line to a little below the sternal notch. The skin, the cervical fascia, and often the communicating branch between the anterior jugular veins, are divided and the handle of the knife is sunk into the division between the laryngeal muscles. Some of the inferior thyroid veins which lie upon the front of the trachea, and run downwards