SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 292 Elastic Bandages.—Some patients cannot bear Martin's bandage for any length of time, even over a stocking, and in that case an elastic webbing bandage will suit them better. This has the advantage that it is much more porous and much more comfortable to the limb, but it is less easy to apply owing to its greater rigidity, it very quickly wears out, and will not stand much washing; as it requires frequent washing, because it readily becomes foul from the absorption of the sweat, it is a much more expensive bandage than Martin's. Elastic Stockings.—Woven elastic stockings, made for each individual patient, are very largely worn, and no doubt, for those who have no one at hand to bandage the limb, they are the most satisfactory method of treatment. They do not, however, give nearly such good support as Martin's bandage. They are seldom made to fit the limb quite accurately, and instrument makers constantly make them somewhat narrower above, so as to prevent them from slipping down, and in this way they act practically as a garter. This is a very serious fault, and in ordering an elastic stocking special stress must be laid on the point that the upper part shall not be smaller and more elastic than the rest; if the stocking tend to shp down, it must be suspended from the waist. The best form is that known as the spiral silk elastic stocking, which practically consists of a long strip of elastic webbing encircling the limb spirally, the adjacent edges of the bandage being sewn together. These stockings have the advantage over the elastic bandage in being porous, and they are on the whole more comfortable. They are, however, more costly, less durable, more difficult to keep clean, and, as has just been said, are very seldom properly fitted to the limb. The elastic stocking should extend to the upper limit of the disease ; when the saphena vein is affected it must extend right up to the groin. Many patients, however, refuse to wear them as high as the groin, for they find that they constantly slip down and are extremely uncomfortable, while the thigh portion is apt to be inefficient. It is with the view of meeting the wants of these patients that in very bad cases of varicose veins of the leg, where there is no chance of curing the disease by operation, one never- theless feels justified in obliterating the saphena vein, so as to avoid the necessity for a thigh-piece, and at the same time to relieve the pressure on the veins below.