302 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. burrows between the external and middle coats of the artery for some distance, and then again finds its way back into the general blood stream at a point lower down in the wall of the vessel. VARIETIES.^—Two forms of aneurysm are generally met with, viz. (i) sacculated aneurysm, in which the dilatation occurs on one side only of the artery, and in which the sac communicates with the artery by a comparatively narrow opening; or (2) fusiform aneurysm, in which there is a general dilatation of the whole circumference of the artery, giving rise to a fusiform swelling. In this form of aneurysm there is not, at first at any rate, any formation of the laminated clot described in connection with sacculated aneurysm. The fusiform variety enlarges more slowly than the sacculated, although it follows the same course in the main; towards the end of its existence it may become more or less sacculated owing to greater dilatation of one part of the wall than of another, or from a localized rupture. SYMPTOMS.—^Aneurysm gives rise to various more or less serious symptoms. Apart from the presence of an expansile tumour, pulsating synchronously with the heart and associated with a bruit, much pain may be caused from pressure on sensory nerves surrounding it, paralysis from pressure on motor nerves, and marked oedema of the limb if the main vein of the limb be pressed upon. TREATMENT.~The treatment of true aneurysm may be divided into medical and surgical. Medical treatment is of course the only possible form when the aneurysm is internal, that is to say, in one or other of the great cavities of the body; surgical treatment is employed wherever possible in external aneurysm. Surgeons have, however, occasionally to do with aneurysms which are on the border line between internal and external, for example, aneurysm of the innominate artery. In these cases, whether surgical treatment be carried out or not, medical treatment must always be employed. It will, therefore, be well to indicate very briefly the chief points in the medical treatment of aneurysm. (a) Medical Treatment of Aneurysm.—This has for its object the production of a condition of affairs which will favour the occurrence of coagulation in the sac and spontaneous cure of the aneurysm. This end is of course most likely to be obtained when the aneurysm is of the sacculated variety ; it is hardly likely to occur when it is fusiform. The first point of importance is to diminish the force and rapidity of the circulation, and for this object the amount of food taken, and more par- ticularly the fluid part of it, are much restricted; a second point which is also of great importance is to increase the coagulability of the blood. Tufnell's Method.-—The plan originally described by Tufnell is that most commonly employed, but its stringency is such that it can seldom be strictly adhered to for any length of time. According to this method the patient is confined strictly to bed in the horizontal position and is forbidden to make the slightest movement. He is put on a very limited