192 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BURS^. mation. It may follow contusions, especially if there has already been some chronic inflammation, or it may be secondary to some inflammation in its vicinity, e.g. erysipelas of the skin or inflammation of a neighbouring joint. In some cases it is due to a direct wound. Acute bursitis also occurs in rheumatism, and a gouty form of the affection is described. Treatment.—In cases of acute suppurative bursitis, the bursa must be laid freely open, a drainage tube or tubes inserted at the most dependent points, and the parts kept aseptic. It is often necessary for efficient drainage in a large bursa like the pre-patellar, to make two, or even more, counter- openings at its lowest points. In the pre-patellar bursa this is best done by a small median incision, through which the finger explores the cavity and directs a probe or pair of sinus forceps, which are made to project beneath the skin at the most dependent points, and are cut down upon for counter-openings. The neighbouring joint should be fixed with splints until the inflammation has subsided. When suppuration has not occurred, the ordinary treatment of inflam- mation (see Part I., Chap. I.) should be employed; this will be rest and cold in the early stages, hot fomentations, leeches, etc., later on. If there be any rheumatic tendency, salicin or salicylate of soda (20 grains three times daily) should be given. The majority of cases of acute bursitis, however, go on to suppuration, and, provided that the wound can be kept aseptic, time is saved and a better result obtained by early incision and drainage, even though no pus has formed. When there is no pus, a fine drainage tube (No. 5) inserted between the edges of the wound will suffice; its use can generally be dispensed with after the third day, and the wound allowed to close. Here there is no need for counter-openings; drainage through a median vertical incision, carried out as above, will suffice. If the pre-patellar bursa be affected, the patient may be allowed to walk about with the knee fixed in a suitable casing. CHRONIC BURSITIS.—Chronic inflammation of a bursa may follow upon the acute form, or it may be chronic from the commencement; it is usually the result of slight contusions or injuries to the part. The most common seat of chronic bursitis is the pre-patellar bursa, and here it usually results from prolonged kneeling. Sometimes at an early stage of the disease there is considerable pain and some redness of the skin—a subacute inflamma- tion in fact—but there is not the acute oedema and the violent symptoms characteristic of an acute suppurative inflammation. The pain soon sub- sides and leaves the wall of the bursa dilated and thickened; the subacute inflammation is, however, very liable to recur on the slightest provocation. In other cases again, adventitious bursse may develop over parts subjected to pressure, and these may subsequently inflame; common examples of these are the bursae which develop over the side of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, as a result of pressure in cases of hallux valgus, and which are known as bunions. Pathology.—As the result of the chronic inflammation, various changes