TUBERCULOSIS. tissues are particularly susceptible to irritation, it may merely mean that healing will not occur while a plaster of that strength is used. If, there- fore, after about a week or ten days, there be no sign of healing under the weaker plaster, it should be left'off, and some non-irritating ointment, such as the quarter-strength boracic ointment, substituted for it. If cicatrization still does not occur, it must be inferred that lupus tissue is still present and the strong plaster must be re-applied, or some other method of treatment adopted. If there be any doubt as to the freedom of the scar from the presence of nodules after healing has occurred, the strong plaster can be again applied, and if any lupus nodules be present, the salicylic acid very quickly finds them out, and causes their destruction. If, on the other hand, after using the strong plaster for a few days, it is found to cause no ulceration, it may be safely inferred that there is no lupus present in the scar. A 10% pyrogallic acid ointment, used in a very similar manner, is highly spoken of by several leading dermatologists; it is, however, a very painful application. It must be borne in mind that neither of these methods should be employed where excision is feasible. (2) In lupus hypertrophicus, especially when there is a thick ridge all around a more or less completely cicatrized area, and when the patch is too large for complete excision, the best treatment is to excise this ridge of lupus. An incision is made well beyond it—half an inch to an inch— and another is made through the cicatrical tissue about the same distance on the opposite side of the ridge. The whole of the tissues between these incisions, along with a considerable amount of subcutaneous fat, are then dissected away; in most cases it is advisable to place a number of skin-grafts on the raw surface. Should there be any question as to whether the scar tissue left has again become infected by lupus it can subsequently be tested with a strong salicylic plaster in the manner described above. (3) Lupus exedens may also be treated on the same principles, but as a rule, a considerable amount of time is saved if other measures be adopted from the first. The most thorough of all methods of treatment for lupus is excision, and where there is only a small patch, this is the one to be recommended in preference to all others. The excision is, of course, carried out antiseptically. The affected part is enclosed in an incision of the necessary shape, which, if possible, should be oval, and which is carried through the skin for quite half an inch beyond any visible lupus nodules. The skin with the subcutaneous tissue is then dissected out, and the edges of the incision brought together—if necessary, after undermining,—and the resulting scar will, after a few months, be hardly visible. If the lupus be situated on the face, buried stitches, as described in Part I., p. 154, may be used. This plan of excision is the only one in which there is anything like permanent freedom from recurrence; all the other plans, whether by the use of salicylic plasters, scraping, etc., are usually followed by a certain amount of local recurrence.