230 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. behind the annular ligament, possibly in the palm, and the upper one will be some considerable distance up the sheath; both ends will be firmly adherent to the structures in their immediate neigh- bourhood. Hence it is evident that the ends can only be found by a fi-ee dissection. The search for the upper end is greatly facilitated by prolonging the skin incision upwards, so as to expose the lower end of the belly of the muscle; by following this down, the tendon may be found. The sheath is next opened, the tendon freed from any adhesions it may have con- tracted, and enough of the free end removed to provide a freshly-cut surface. The distal portion of the tendon must next be sought for and treated in a similar manner. In the example before us it is very difficult to find the end behind the annular ligament, but if the end of the tendon cannot be got at, a better plan than dividing the ligament is to cut into the palm and expose the tendon well on the distal side of the division; then, by pushing a probe up the sheath, the point at which adhesion has taken place may be found and an attempt made, by pushing the probe upwards through the adhesions, to make it wound and form a guide along which the tissues can be turned aside until the end is got at. When this is secured and the adhesions freed, it is always possible to pull the tendon up into the wound, because the distal end has not undergone shrinking; the interval between the divided ends is due to contraction of the muscular fibres, and therefore the shortening only affects the proximal portion. (a) The flap-7nethod.—When the free end of the distal portion has been brought into the wound, it must be prepared in a manner similar to ihat employed for the proximal portion, and the next point is how to bring the two ends properly into apposition. As a rule this cannot be done by the method recommended for recent cases, as the shortening of the muscle does not allow of the ends being brought into apposition without danger of the stitches cutting out. Various plans have been suggested to overcome this difficulty. The simplest is to split the proximal end of the tendon and turn a piece down so as to make it sufficiently long to meet the distal portion without undue tension. This may be done by making a transverse incision at a distance of from one to two inches above the free end of the proximal portion of the divided tendon, according to the amount of shortening present. This incision only goes half way across the tendon, and from this point the latter is split vertically downwards along the middle line as far as can be done without completely detaching the flap; in other words the incision is carried to within a quarter of an inch of the divided end (see Fig. 8i. A). A flap is thus turned down, Fig. 8o. — Flap for operations upon rup- TURED Tendons. The incision ab marks out a flap which, when turned back, exposes the cicatri- cial tissue between the ends of the tendon (shaded in the diagram) well away from the line of division of the skin. protrude into the