SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. 244 affected. In the case of a sensory nerve the patient first complains of neuralgia in the part supplied by the nerve, followed by sensations of heat and cold, numbness, hyperaesthesia, and subsequently complete ansesthesia. In a mixed nerve the sensory disturbance is followed at a somewhat later period by motor paralysis; this is at first slight, but it gradually increases in degree as the compression advances. If the compression and its effects— that is to say, neuritis—still continue, trophic changes, such as the formation of bullae, ulcerations of the skin, wasting of muscles and so forth, may take place in the parts supplied by the nerve. When nerve-endings are implicated in cicatrices or malignant growths of the skin, the symptoms are generally great pain, hyperaesthesia, excessive tenderness on pressure, reflex pain in distant parts, convulsive twitching of muscles or even of the whole limb, or in some rare cases epileptiform con- vulsions. Treatment.—(a) Prophylaxis.—The dangers resulting from the com- pression of nerves must of course always be present to the mind of the surgeon, and must be guarded against wherever possible. In applying compression to a limb the possibility of injury to the nerve must always be remembered; for example, in operations on the forearm by the bloodless method, it must not be forgotten that if a narrow tourniquet or elastic tube be too tightly applied to the upper arm, the nerves are apt to suffer injurious pressure because of their exposed situations. Hence, under those circum- stances the tubing should not be used as a tourniquet, but a broad piece of elastic webbing should be employed in its place; this, while exercising sufficiently firm pressure, will not do harm, since, owing to its breadth, such pressure as it exerts is diffused, and is not concentrated on any one point in the nerve. Again, when a patient is compelled to use crutches, the possibility of crutch palsy must be borne in mind, and special care must be taken to see that the crutches are not too long for the patient, and that the arms are sufficiently padded. In cases of fracture also, the possi- bility of the inclusion of a nerve between the broken ends of the bones, or the possibility of subsequent inclusion of the nerve in the callus must not be lost sight of. Care must be taken in reducing the fracture to see that no soft tissues are left between the bones, and directly symptoms pointing to compression of a nerve make their appearance, steps should be taken to remedy it, even should this involve operative interference. When the terminations of a nerve may be involved in a cicatrix and lead to a painful scar, every possible means of promoting rapid healing, more especially the avoidance of sepsis, must be had recourse to. Wher- ever the edges of a wound can be brought together, healing by first intention should be aimed at; where this cannot be done, the employment of immediate skin-grafting, in order to diminish the subsequent contraction, is of the greatest importance. (b) Where Compression has already produced its Effect.—After the compression has been relieved, recovery will almost certainly occur unless