ANEURYSM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 333 to the innominate, may require ligature and division. If a thyroidea ima artery be present it will also require to be tied. If the muscles on the right side of the neck be now retracted very firmly by a large retractor, the lower part of the carotid sheath will come into view; if this be traced downwards the bifurcation of the innominate into the carotid and subclavian immediately above the upper border of the sternal extremity of the clavicle will be felt. About half an inch, or sometimes more, of the innominate artery can thus be exposed in the sternal notch at the lowest part of the wound. (See Fig. 109.) Fig. 109.—Ligature of the Innominate Artery through a Median Incision. The soft parts are forcibly pulled to the right after the interval between the sterno-thyroids has been opened up. The process of deep cervical fascia F. covering in the vessels is .seen pulled over to the left side in front of the trachea T. This brings into view the Innominate artery bifurcating into the Common Carotid C. and the Subclavian S. The sheath of the vessel is next opened carefully, as far down as possible, over the front, or rather towards the left side of the artery; an aneurysm needle is carefully insinuated around it in the manner already described (see p. 321), and finally passed around the vessel from the outer side. Great care must be taken to avoid puncture of the innominate vein which lies to the outer side and somewhat in front of the vessel, and aneurysm needles of varying curves and lengths should always be at hand when this operation is performed. Wound of the pleura is avoided by keeping close to the vessel. The materials used for ligature of the innominate artery should be silk (either floss silk or the ordinary Chinese twist, both of which are better than the plaited variety) or kangaroo tendon which has been kept in a i-iooo solution of perchloride of mercury in glycerine. Two ligatures should be applied side by side, and tightened up and tied in the manner described on page 306, care being taken in doing so not to divide the coats of the vessel. In order to tie these ligatures so as to insure