ANEURYSMS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 365 Ligature of the Internal Pudic Artery in the Buttock.—This artery emerges from the abdomen through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, winds around the spine of the ischium and passes to the front of the innominate bone through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. The artery is tied as it lies on the posterior surface of the spine of the ischium, and this point corresponds to the junction of the lower with the middle third of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the ischial tuberosity. An incision is made somewhat obliquely to this line parallel to the fibres of the gluteus maximus and with its centre corresponding to the ischial spine. After the skin and fascia are divided the fibres of the gluteus maximus are separated and held apart. This shows the lower border of the pyriformis muscle with the tendon of the obturator internus below it. The vessel will be found as it passes around the spine with the nerve lying to its inner side. Ligature of the Obturator Artery.—This vessel may require ligature as it passes out of the abdomen at the upper and outer part of the obturator foramen. The obturator nerve lies above the artery. A vertical incision is made from a point a finger's breadth internal to the centre of Poupart's ligament downwards for about four inches. The N. Fig. 136.—Ligature of the Right Obturator Artery.— P. Pectineus. A. Obturator artery. N. Obturator nerve. O. Obturator externus. S. Internal saphena vein. The branches of the vessel .ire drawn much too large. •skin, superficial and deep fascia are divided, the internal saphena vein drawn out- wards, and the pectineal fascia divided just internal to the femoral vein. The outer border of the pectineus muscle is defined and drawn inwards, the fascia over the obturator externus is divided, and the under surface of the horizontal ramus of the pubis is felt for with the finger. At the upper border of the obturator externus muscle the artery will be found passing through the obturator foramen with the obturator nerve above it (see Fig. 136). ANEURYSMS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. These, ahhough not at all common, do occasionally occur. They are generally situated on the posterior tibial artery, but sometimes they may be met with on the peroneal or the anterior tibial. In the foot, it is true, aneurysms are exceedingly rare, and when they do occur they are generally traumatic, the most common situation being on the dorsalis pedis. The treatment of these aneurysms is as a rule the old operation; the methods of exposing the arteries concerned are given below.