CHAPTER XVII. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. The injuries of tendons which require consideration are division through an open wound, subcutaneous rupture, and dislocation. The treatment of these will vary according as the case comes under notice directly the injury has occurred or as it is seen only after the lapse of considerable time. DIVISION OF TENDONS.—The effects of injuries of the tendon sheaths have been described in the preceding chapter, and we shall only consider here the question of division of tendons. Injuries accompanied by divisions of tendons usually occur about the hand or the forearm, and the tendon may be divided transversely or obliquely. (a) Recent injuries.—Symptoms.—^The immediate results of division of a tendon are loss of movement in the parts to which the tendon is attached and separation of the divided ends. This separation is entirely due to the retraction of the upper end caused by the contraction of the muscle from which the tendon takes its origin. The degree of separation depends partly on the anatomical arrangement of the tendon and partly on the length of the muscle; the longer the muscle, the greater will be the retraction. As regards the lirst point, some tendons have accessory con- nections with bones, or junctions with other tendons, and cannot therefore be drawn up even though completely divided. For instance, in the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, there are fibrous bands passing between the three inner tendons which prevent any marked degree of retraction of the divided ends. In the tendo Achillis there are bands running from the tendon to the bone above its main point of insertion, and these serve to keep the tendon more or less in position, if the wound be close to its inser- tion ; on the other hand, if the division occur more than an inch above that point there are no restraining bands of this kind, and there may be very marked separation, a gap of as much as an inch and a half being some- times left between the divided ends.