71 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. tube, and the usual antiseptic dressings are applied. By means of this operation, a broad surface for union is obtained, and, if care be taken not to put any tension upon the tendon for some weeks afterwards, the result is usually fairly satisfactory. {/>) "L-shaped section of the tendo Achillis. The second plan is that of dividing the tendon by means of a "L-shaped incision. After turning up a flap as before, an incision is made in the tendon, commencing on one side, and running transversely across it as far as its centre. The knife is then turned downwards at a right angle to this incision, and the tendon is split vertically along the middle line for about a couple of inches. At the lower end of this incision the knife is turned transversely across the tendon, and directed towards the opposite side to that originally divided, and is made to divide the remaining half of the tendon (see Fig. 35). In this way, two long flaps of tendon are made, which lie side by side, and all that is necessary is to cut off a sufficient portion from each flap, so that when the divided surfaces are brought accurately into contact the necessary amount of shortening is obtained. A good practical rule is to make the vertical part of the incision just double the length of the portion of tendon that will require to be removed in order to bring the foot into proper position. After having cut away the requisite amount, the ends are brought into accurate apposition, and are carefully stitched with silk.^ In some ways, this is the more satisfactory method; in it the union is a combination of a transverse with a vertical one, which is very strong, whereas in the other the union is oblique, and there is a possibility of its yielding. A further advantage of this particular method is that the division can be practised lower down, and need not involve the muscular fibres at all. Various other plans have been devised, none of which are entirely satisfactory; we have contented ourselves with describing those that we have found of most practical value. After-treatment.—Whichever method be adopted, care must be taken to keep the foot in a position of somewhat marked equinus for at least six or eight weeks, so as to allow of sound union between the divided ends; even after this time great care has to be exercised not to put strain on it for fear of stretching the uniting material. The patient should not be allowed to walk about to any extent for at least six months after the operation. When walking is permitted he should be furnished with the apparatus already mentioned (see p. 68), consisting of the lateral irons fitted into a surgical boot with a stop which prevents the joint being flexed beyond a right angle. From six weeks after the operation the calf should be thoroughly massaged and douched once or twice daily, and the Faradic current applied to the muscles. 2. Transplantation of tendo Achillis.—The other plan sometimes ' For the method of suturing a tendon, see Chap. XVII.