DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. 29 are fastened to them, which is best done by means of elastic bands, they are pulled well back into a position of slight hyper-extension (see Fig. 19). By this arrangement the thumb and any of the fingers that are not affected are left free, so that the patient can use the hand to a certain extent. It should be worn night and day until at least six weeks have elapsed from the tipie of operation, but it should be taken off two or three times daily so as to allow the fingers to be exercised, and massage and passive movement to the palm and finger to be employed; at the end of six weeks it may be left off during the day and worn only at night. The use of the splint at night should not be given up for at least six months after the operation; at the end of that time it can generally be abandoned Fig. ig.—Dupuytren's Contraction. Splint for maintaining full extension AFTER Subcutaneous Division of the Fascia. 1 his splint is somewhat similar lo that shown in Fig. i8, except that it is applied on the dorsal surface of the hand, and takes purchase from the wrist. Hence more powerful extension of the fingers can be got. The finger prolongations (which will vary in number according to the fingers affected) can be bent backwards if necessary, as the splint is made of malleable metal. entirely. Where there is much stiffness of the joints, and considerable rigidity of the skin with hard horny thickenings, a course of treatment by the superheated air apparatus (Tallerman's) is very useful in getting the part supple; the fingers should be repeatedly moved, the palm kneaded, and glycerine or lanoline rubbed into it, so as to soften the skin as much as possible. The usual result of subcutaneous division of the fascia carried out in this manner is that the patient remains well for three or four years, and then the contraction recurs, and a second operation is required, the results of which may be as satisfactory as those of the former one. No per- manent cure can, however, be looked for by this, or indeed, unfortunately, by any other method. (2) The open operations of any value for the treatment of Dupuytren's contraction are two in number—(a) dissection out of the whole of the contracted fascia, and (i) division of the fascia and the skin by a V-shaped incision, so as to enable the finger to be extended, without removal of any portion of the fascia. Each method has its own particular value, and the indications for each will be considered immediately; mean- while we shall describe the two operations. (a) Excision of the contracted Fascia.—After the skin has been softened