344 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. greater part of its course, and the latter is crossed by the ureter and the inferior mesenteric vessels, whilst in front of it also lie the sigmoid flexure and the commencement of the rectum. The external iliac artery on the right side has the vein behind it above, while below the vein passes to its inner side. On the left side the vein lies to the inner side throughout. In front of the artery on both sides below are the spermatic artery, the vas deferens, and the genital branch of the genito- crural nerve. On the right side the ureter may cross the upper part of the external iliac artery instead of the lower part of the common trunk. Proximal Ligature.—There are two principal methods by which the iliac arteries may be tied, which are termed respectively the trans-peritoneal and the extra-peritoneal methods. The trans-peritoneal, or direct ligature of the artery, is performed by opening the abdominal cavity either in the linea semilunaris or in the middle line, and reaching the artery through the posterior layer of the peritoneum after pushing the intestines out of the way. In the extra-peritoneal method, on the other hand, the peritoneum is stripped up from the iliac fossa, and the vessel is thus exposed without opening the abdominal cavity. There can be no doubt that with proper antiseptic precautions the trans-peritoneal method is the better and simpler of the two methods in the majority of cases. In aneurysm of the ex- ternal iliac artery there is considerable risk of rupturing the sac when the peritoneum is stripped up from the iliac fossa in the extra-peritoneal operation, and in order to avoid this risk it is necessary to make a very extensive incision through the abdominal walls, which may of course lead to considerable weakening of them subsequently. (a) Trans-peritoneal Method.—To reach the vessel by the trans- peritoneal method an incision should either be made in the middle line or through the linea semilunaris on the affected side. Unless the patient be very fat it is always better to make the incision in the middle line. With a median incision of suitable length it is quite easy to pull the margins of the wound to one side so as to bring it over the brim of the pelvis. The skin is thoroughly disinfected in the usual manner, the pelvis well raised so that the intestines are displaced upwards, and then an incision is made four to five inches in length, beginning a little below the umbilicus and extending vertically downwards. The skin, super- ficial fascia, and the front layer of the sheath of the rectus are divided, the latter muscle is pulled aside and the posterior layer of its sheath is opened. After division of the transversalis fascia the peritoneum is slit up throughout the whole extent of the skin wound (see Fig. 121). In stout subjects, and in cases in which the external iliac artery is to be tied, it is better to make the incision through the linea semilunaris. The great objection to doing this is, however, that the nerves supplying the rectus muscle are necessarily divided. A slightly curved incision of about four inches in length is made through the linea semilunaris, com- mencing about half an inch below the level of the umbilicus. The skin,