ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 329 the internal carotid, and it has the still further advantage that, should the sac be ruptured during the manipulations necessary for ligature of the internal trunk, it will not be a matter of such great importance, as the sac can then be excised and the branches of the external carotid also tied. Ligature of the Internal Carotid.—The line of this artery is the same as that of the common trunk, and the vessel should be tied near its origin, as it passes beneath the posterior belly of the digastric. The position of the patient is the same as for the operation just described {vide supra). The incision is made parallel with and just over the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and should be about three inches in length, extending as low as the middle of the thyroid cartilage. The platysma and the deep fascia of the neck are divided, the anterior margin of the Fig. 107.—Ligature of the Left Internal Carotid.— S.M. Sterno-mastoid. I. Internal carotid. E. External carotid. V. Internal jugular vein. D.N. Descendens noni nerve. Sterno-mastoid muscle defined, and the band of fascia running from it to the angle of the jaw is cut through. The muscle can then be drawn out- wards by a blunt hook, and the tissues cleared with the handle of the knife or a blunt dissector. This exposes the digastric muscle above, with the parotid gland overlapping it, the sterno-mastoid muscle on the outer side, with the spinal accessory nerve entering it above, whilst the vessels are seen at the bottom of the wound, the external carotid lying in front of and to the inner side of the internal (see Fig. 107). The former vessel must then be drawn inwards. The sheath of the internal carotid is opened towards the inner side and cleared in the usual manner, care being taken not to injure the jugular vein which overlaps the artery. The needle is passed from without inwards so as to avoid the vein, and again care must be taken not to include the vagus nerve. Should the aneurysm not have