ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 321 process, ffhe centre of this incision should be opposite the cricoid cartilage. The skin, platysma, superficial and deep fascia are divided, and the sterno- mastoid muscle is pulled outwards. On dividing the deep layer of the deep cervical fascia the omo-hyoid will be brought into view crossing the wound obliquely from above downwards and outwards. With regard to its effect upon the aneurysm it is a matter of no importance where the ligature is applied to the carotid, and as it is easier to tie the vessel above the omo- hyoid that is the point which is usually chosen. The omo-hyoid is, therefore, defined, the fascia enveloping it being divided in a direction parallel to its muscular fibres, and care is taken not to divide the descendens noni nerve which supplies it. The muscle is then pulled downwards and inwards by a retractor; at this stage branches of the dilated superior and middle thyroid veins may require ligature. This exposes the sheath of the carotid vessels, in front and towards the outer side of which is seen the descendens noni. The artery lies in the inner compartment of the sheath, being usually over- lapped by the jugular vein to a greater or less extent, according to the distension of the latter (see Fig. 102). The exact position of the carotid can be readily determined by the pulsation; when this is weakened by the pressure of the aneurysm, its characteristic glistening white appearance and its flat ribbon-like feel will serve to identify it. The general sheath is opened well to the inner side, so as to avoid the compartment containing the vein; this is done by picking up a small portion of it with forceps and incising it with the blade of the knife held on the flat, so as to avoid puncturing the vessel. The sheath of the artery is opened in a similar manner, and the two edges of the opening are picked up with catch forceps. The sheath is then gradually detached from the artery by insinuating between them an unthreaded aneurysm needle or a suitable bent probe. The best way to do this is to detach the sheath first on one side, whilst the corresponding edge of the incision in the sheath is steadied by the catch forceps, and then to treat the sheath on its other side in a similar manner, until gradually the needle is able to shp right round the vessel and its point emerges again through the opening. These manipulations must be most gently and carefully carried out, for it is very easy to puncture the sheath and to wound the vein if too much force be used. Moreover, carelessness in this particular may result in the in- clusion of the vagus in the ligature. The general rule is to pass the aneurysm needle from without inwards so as to avoid the possibility of puncturing the vein with the point of the instrument. The needle should be passed unthreaded, and after it has been made to encircle the artery it is threaded with stout catgut or silk and withdrawn. Before the ligature is tied care should be taken to see that nothing but the artery is included in it and that no injury has been done to the vein. Should by any chance the latter be punctured, the vessel should be somewhat cleared by enlarging the opening in the sheath, and the puncture in the vein may then be picked up with a pair of forceps and a lateral ligature applied. Should the PT. II. X