74 CLUB-FOOT. and should be removed as soon as the patient complains of being tired, or of the apparatus causing pain. When it is taken off, the limb should be massaged and douched, and the lighter metal splint put on in its place. In very advanced cases in which there is marked shortening of the peronei tendons, it will be necessary to divide them and in some cases also to divide the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The division of the peronei tendons is best carried out at a point about an inch and a half above the tip of the external malleolus, and in most cases the tendons of both the peroneus longus and brevis should be cut. The tenotomy knife is inserted between the tendons and the bone; the edge of the peroneus longus can be easily made out, and, as soon as it is divided, the peroneus brevis comes into relief and can also be divided. No important structures are endangered by the operation. The short saphena vein may sometimes be divided, but this is a matter of no con- sequence. After the tendons have been cut, the foot should be put up in a position of slight adduction. Whether the deformity should be completely remedied at once or not, depends, of course, on the amount of separation of the divided ends of the tendon that this will entail. If it be comparatively slight, there is no objection to completely correcting or over-correcting the deformity directly after the operation; if, on the other hand, it be considerable, it is better to allow the deformity to remain uncorrected or only partially corrected for about a week, and then gradually to complete it. In some cases, especially in hospital out- patients, it is best to put up the foot in plaster of Paris. In doing this, any flat foot that co-exists must also be corrected; the toes should be pressed downwards, backwards and inwards, so as to raise the arch of the instep. When there is sufficient union between the divided ends of the tendons, namely, after the lapse of about three weeks, treatment on the lines already detailed for the milder degrees of the deformity should be carried out {vide supra). In the case of a child not able to walk, massage of the weak muscles with proper manipulations and fixation of the foot on splints in the intervals should be employed; when the child can walk, the apparatus above recommended should be used in addition to massage and electricity. When the deformity is associated with some deflection of the bones, Fig. 37. — Boots for Use in Talipes Valgus. These are in all respects similar to those for use in flat foot, with the addition of lateral leg-irons, the outer one being especially stout. The drawing is a view of the boot from the inner side, and shows the obliquity of the heel and the filling up of the arch of the instep. Compare Fig. 24.