24 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. still further cripple the patient. If the foot be examined, it is found that, when the toes are flexed towards the sole and the metatarsal bones are looked at from the dorsal surface, the heads of those in the neighbourhood of which the pain is most marked are on a lower level than the rest. This is apparently due to some relaxation of the ligaments that bind the heads of the metatarsal bones together. The pain is supposed by Morton to be due to a lateral compression of the foot, so that the head of the fifth metatarsal compresses branches of the external plantar nerve against the head of the fourth. Although doubtless in some cases this explanation may be the correct one, in others the pain is probably to a great extent due to the increased pressure exerted upon the sole by the head of the bone which has become displaced downwards from its normal position. The affection not infrequently follows upon injury, but cases un- doubtedly occur in which there is no history of injury of any kind: these are generally the ones in which narrow boots are worn, and in which there is a lateral compression of the metatarsal bones. The condition is also often associated with flat foot, and sometimes, when the depression of the arch is corrected, the whole trouble disappears. It occurs more frequently in women than in men. TREATMENT. This may be divided into palliative and operative, the majority of cases, except those of long standing, yielding as a rule to the former. (1) Palliative Treatment. The first essential is that the patient should wear properly fitting boots. It is of the greatest importance that they should be sufficiently wide and should everywhere afford proper support to the foot. They should be made to a plaster cast of the foot, as it is otherwise very difficult to combine proper support with avoidance of undue pressure. In addition to properly fitting boots, a Whitman^s spring (see p. 39) should be worn to support the arch of the instep, and the tiptoe exercises, which will be fully described in the treatment of flat foot (see p. 38), may with advantage be combined with this so as to strengthen the structures in the sole. Massage is of considerable value, while douch- ing of the foot is also useful. If there be much pain an anodyne linament, such as belladonna, or the application of belladonna plasters to the sole of the foot, may be called for. If belladonna plasters are used, and there are callosities present, a hole should be cut in the plaster opposite the callosity, much in the same way as the central hole is made in a corn plaster. The majority of cases which in the early stage are treated in this manner will yield perfectly satisfactory results. (2) Operative Treatment. In bad cases, however, more particularly those in which the affection has lasted for a considerable time, no great benefit results from any of these procedures, and it is necessary to have recourse to operative interference. The procedure which has yielded the best results up to the present time is removal of the head of the metatarsal