POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. 359 TREATMENT.—The procedures employed for the treatment of popliteal aneurysm may be either compression or ligature. We have already discussed the relative merits of these two plans, and have described in detail the method of carrying out compression, which should be applied to the upper part of the femoral artery (see pp. 351-4). Amongst operative procedures for the cure of popliteal aneurysm, the surgeon has the choice between the old operation of incising the sac and tying the vessel above and below, ligature of the popliteal artery at its commence- ment, or ligature of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal or Scarpa's triangle. Ligature.—(a) Of the Superficial Femoral Artery.—In the ordinary cases of popliteal aneurysm proximal ligature is perhaps the safest plan, as it does not involve any risk of injury to the nerves or the vein. At the same time surgeons are beginning to consider the question as to whether the old operation may not be applicable not only to cases of diffuse aneurysm in the popliteal space but to all cases of aneurysm in that region, and this is a point which will probably have a good deal more attention paid to it in the near future. At the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle.—^When proximal ligature is determined upon, the point at which the artery is tied will depend to some extent upon the situation of the aneurysm. It is generally done at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, an operation which we have already described (see p. 355)- John Hunter, in introducing his operation, tied the artery in what is known as Hunter's canal, and some surgeons, with whom we are inclined to agree, tie the vessel whenever it is possible at the upper part of the popliteal space. In Hunter's Canal.—Ligature of the artery in Hunter's canal is per- FiG. 13a.—Ligature OF THE Right Superficial Femoral in Hunter's Canal.— 8. Sartorius. A. Femoral artery giving off anaslomotica magna. F. Fascia covering canal. N. Long siiphenoiis nerve. formed as follows. After the limb has been rendered aseptic, the knee is somewhat flexed, the thigh rotated outwards, and an incision from