VARICOSE VEINS. 285 COMPLICATIONS.—When the condition is marked, there is often more or less ivdetna of the extremities, which results in part from the embarrassment of the circulation produced by long standing and by the absence of sufficient muscular movement to force on the blood in the limb, and in part from the general enfeeblement of the tissues as the result of this imperfect nutrition. In the earlier stages the oedema is only noticeable towards the end of a long day's standing and hard work, and is most marked about and just above the instep and ankle; this oedema quickly disappears when the patient lies down. Again, varicose veins are especially prone to inflammation, and phlebitis is therefore a common occurrence. Varicose veins in the legs are also fertile sources of eczema and ulceration of the skin : this point has been referred to in connection with ulcers (see Part I., Chap. III.). They also cause a good deal of pain and aching in the limb, in the early period especially, and this is chiefly noticeable when the patient first gets up in the morning, when it is often accompanied by cramp; later on it is chiefly marked in the evening if the patient has been standing much during the day. TREATMENT.—The treatment of varicose veins in the leg may be either palliative or radical. In no case can a cure of the affection be correctly spoken of, although by operative means a very marked improve- ment in the condition of the patient may be effected—quite sufficient to warrant the operation being done in suitable cases. Even in the case of a small localised mass of veins, where it is possible to eradicate the affected vessels entirely by operation, it is not strictly accurate to speak of this as curative, as is so often done. The tendency to varix remains, and there can be no guarantee that other veins will not become affected. The essential object of the treatment, whether palliative or radical, is to support the column of blood and take off the downward pressure from the weakened venous walls. An operation is advisable as a radical measure in cases where the varicosity is not very extensive, and more especially where the enlarge- ment is limited to one vein or set of veins. The operation is also neces- sary in cases of young men entering the public services or going abroad to hot climates, where they are likely to have much standing or exertion. As a palliative means it is to be recommended in cases of extensive varix, when it is employed with the view of rendering the patient more comfort- able, of diminishing or arresting the spread of the condition, and of enabling him to wear an elastic stocking with comfort even when large venous areas are affected. Whenever the enlargement affects the veins above the knee, operation is indicated, both in order to cut off the blood-column and also to obviate the necessity of wearing a bandage above the knee—a most irksome thing. It is also advisable in cases in which there have been frequent attacks of phlebitis, or in which, even without actual phlebitis, the veins are the cause of much pain or aching. Where there is ulceration of