303 TRUE ANEURYSM. diet with the object not only of diminishing the force of the circulation, but of rendering the blood more fibrinous and thereby favouring the deposition of clot. The diet Tufnell recommended consists of ten ounces of solid food in the 24 hours, and about eight ounces of fluid. This is given in three meals a day, which are ordered as follows:—For breakfast, two ounces of bread and butter and two ounces of milk or tea; for dinner, three ounces of mutton and three of potatoes or bread with four ounces of claret or water; two ounces of bread and butter and two of milk or tea are given for supper. The confinement to bed upon the strictly limited diet should be kept up for at least two or three months; should improvement occur it should be persisted in as long as the patient can tolerate it. This plan can seldom be strictly adhered to, and some relaxation of it, particularly with regard to the amount of fluids administered, soon becomes necessary. The thirst rapidly becomes intolerable, and in many cases it is found that all that can be done is to restrict the diet as much as possible without running the risk of depressing the patient unduly and thus exciting the irritability of the heart. Drugs. — In addition to the restriction of the diet, various drugs are administered which have for their main object the increase of the coagula- bility of the blood. The chief of these is iodide of potassium, which is best administered in large doses, commencing with fifteen grains three times a day and increasing rapidly to thirty or forty if no marked effect is produced. Chloride of calcium in cachets or pills of from five to ten grains may also be given twice daily with the same object. The fluidity of the blood may be markedly diminished, and therefore its coagulability increased, by the administration twice or three times a week of twenty grains of compoimd jalap powder so as to produce copious watery evacuations. Valsalva's Method.—In stout plethoric patients the method named after Valsalva, namely, the withdrawal of blood by frequent venesection (see Part I., p. 4) is recommended; eight or ten ounces of blood are withdrawn daily for about the first ten days of the treatment, but this method is one which must be very carefully used, as it is not to be recommended for the majority of patients, especially those who are old or ansemic. In these latter iron is beneficial, and the administration of opium for the relief of pain produces a markedly good effect. For further details as to the more strictly medical part of this treatment we would refer the reader to text-books on medicine. (b) Surg-ical Treatment of Aneurysm.—The selection of the line of treatment to be followed in any particular case will depend largely upon the character and seat of the aneurysm. The following are the chief methods of treatment. (1) Ligature of the Artery Affected.—This procedure may be divided into four different groups according to the site at which the ligature is applied, and the treatment of the sac of the aneurysm. They are :