174 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. in the course of an extensive second operation for malignant glands in the posterior triangle, where, as the result of a previous operation and the subsequent contraction of the scar, the thoracic duct had been pulled quite out of place. In both cases there was a free flow of chylous fluid which could be seen welling up into the wound. In the first case no attempt was made to close the wound in the vessel; in the second the incision into it was oblique, and the tissues were stitched together over it. In both cases the skin wound was tightly sutured, and firm pressure applied outside. On removal of the dressing ten days later, there was little or no swelling in either case, and the wounds had healed, but, after the pressure was left off, swelling very rapidly occurred, and a large soft fluctuating tumour formed in the lower part of the neck. In the first case the swelling increased greatly in size, until ultimately it reached the dimensions of the closed fist, and at one time looked as though it would burst through the scar. After some weeks, however, it suddenly subsided and entirely disappeared, and the patient had no further trouble. In the second case the swelling did not increase in size to such a marked degree, and after about a couple of months it also had entirely disappeared; so that, from these cases, it may be seen that even the dreaded injury to the thoracic duct did not in these two instances cause any permanent trouble. The conclusion to be drawn from these and other similar pubHshed cases is that, if a large lymphatic trunk be injured, the skin should be closely stitched up, and healing by first intention aimed at, a large sponge or sponges being incorporated with the dressing, so as to maintain pressure upon the part; this pressure should be reinforced by an elastic bandage applied outside the dressing. The thoracic duct has also been tied in cases where it has been completely divided, and the patient has recovered. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. ACUTE LYMPHANGITIS.~The acute form of lymphangitis is practically always a septic disease, and represents the reaction of the walls of the lymphatic vessels to contact with irritants absorbed by them from some seat of primary infection. Generally, the affection is due to the organisms themselves; sometimes, however, inflammation may arise from the irritating products of the organisms alone. Acute lymphangitis is never a primary disease; it is always secondary to some focus of infection, which may be either an external wound, or some inflammatory condition such as a boil. Among external wounds, the most serious are those inflicted during post-mortem examinations, especially of septicaemic cases; here the infection is often of extreme virulence, and the condition very soon passes beyond a mere lymphangitis. Conditions of ill health, such as alcoholism, starvation, diabetes, and so forth, especially predispose to the more severe forms of lymphangitis.