CLUB-FOOT. 46 ■development of the bones of the leg; for instance, absence of the fibula may give rise to a talipes valgus, and in the same way, though more rarely, absence of the tibia may give rise to a talipes varus. In most cases of congenital talipes there is imperfect development of some of the bones of the foot. This is most marked in the astragalus and takes the form of an actual alteration in the axes of the bones; at first, at any rate, the muscles are not altered in length. In addition to the alteration in the shape of the bones, shortening of some of the ligaments very rapidly occurs, and as time goes on, if the deformity be uncorrected, the shortening of the ligaments becomes still more marked, whilst the muscles, accommodating themselves to the altered position of the limb, may also become permanently altered in length. It is of great importance in the treat- ment to remember that, while in the early stage we have only to do with a faulty shape and position of the bones, in later life there is, in addition, a permanent shortening of the tendons, fasciae, and ligaments. The bony deformity increases and becomes permanent as life goes on, and, if the patient be allowed to attain adult life with the foot in its faulty position, it will be found that the shape of the bones and the position of their articular surfaces are so completely altered that some very radical operation is required to rectify the condition. Of acQLuired club foot there are numerous causes. The most frequent form is the paralytic, resulting from the paralysis of certain groups of muscles, generally due to infantile paralysis; the muscles most frequently affected are those of the front and outer aspect of the leg. As a sequel to the loss of power in the muscles, the foot, by its mere weight, assumes a faulty position. Later on, the unaffected muscles become shortened, their action being unbalanced by the paralysed ones, and the condition present is then one of permanent contraction of the active muscles, and paralysis and degeneration of the affected ones. As the case progresses, the structure and direction of the articular surfaces may actually become altered if steps be not taken to keep the foot in proper position. Another cause of the paralytic form of the deformity may be a direct injury to a nerve trunk, such as a gun-shot or other wound, or a fracture involving the nerve. In other cases, the deformity may result from spastic contraction of certain muscles, due to various causes, such as affections of the central nervous system, local nerve irritation, and so forth. Again, the deformity may be caused by myositis due to the presence of some inflammatory focus in the affected muscles or their vicinity which leads to their contraction, or it may result from inflammation in the neighbourhood of tendons which gives rise to adhesions while the foot is in a faulty position. There are also many other less frequent causes of talipes. For example, it may result from the contraction of cicatrices after wounds, ulcers of the leg, burns, etc., or as the result of joint diseases where proper attention has not been paid to the position of the foot. In these