WEBBED DIGITS. 5 The cases of webbed finger vary considerably, both as to the extent of the web in the downward direction, and the closeness with which the fingers are bound together. In some cases (Fig. 3, A) there is merely a slight extension downwards of the natural web between the fingers, which may only reach as low as the first inter-phalangeal joint. This web is usually quite loose and does not really inconvenience the patient, whose chief reason for seeking surgical advice is rather to have an unsightly deformity removed than to have the usefulness of the hand increased. In others, again, the web extends right down to the terminal phalanges and these cases may be divided into three groups: (i) those in which the web is quite broad and allows considerable play to the fingers (Fig. 3, B); (2) those in which the fingers are closely bound together by a very narrow web, but without any actual fusion of adjacent bones (Fig. 3, C); and (3) those in which the bones of the adjacent fingers are more or less completely welded together (Fig. 3, D). A £ CD Fig. 3.—Diagrams to illustrate the various Degrees of Webbed Fingers. A and £ show the two forms of the broad and extensile web; in A it is merely a slight prolongation downwards of the normal web, while in B it reaches almost to the finger- tips. C shows a common form of the afTection ; the fingers are boimd together throughout their whole length so closely that there is practically no proper web between them. In D is shown the most exaggerated type of the deformity ; here the bones of the adjacent fingers are actually fused together. TREATMENT-(i). Where the web is broad.—A great many operations have been introduced for the separation of webbed fingers, but it must be confessed that none of them are completely satisfactory for cases other than those in which the web is broad and quite extensile. The chief difficulties in the operative treatment are, on the one hand, the constant tendency to the re-formation of the web after division, and, on the other, the tendency to contraction of the finger or fingers (especially in the direction of flexion) after they have been separated. If, for example, the web be simply divided down the centre it will be found that, as the wound heals, the web re-forms, and no sort of mechanical arrangement seems to be able to prevent this. Various methods have been employed for the purpose of preventing this re-formation of the web. Thus by some an elastic tube or band is stretched across the cleft between the fingers after the web has been divided, and attached to a band around the wrist, in the hope that the continuous pressure of the elastic will prevent reunion at the roots of the