307 TRUE ANEURYSM. by side, and the first loop of a reef or surgical knot is made in each separately in the same direction without constricting the vessel. The two ends of the ligatures on each side are then seized together and tightened simultaneously. In an artery such as the innominate it will be found that with the ligatures so applied and tightened simultaneously instead of inde- pendently, it is as much as the surgeon can do to rupture the coats. Hence, if they be tied firmly until as far as can be judged the coats are well pressed together, the lumen of the artery will be obliterated without any risk of rupturing the coats. The knot is then completed by tying the two ends on each side together in the second half instead of separately as is done in the first half (see Fig. 99). There is no risk of a knot of this kind—which Ballance and Edmunds call a " stay knot"—undergoing relaxa- tion as the second half of the knot is tied, and therefore no channel is left in the artery through which blood can find its way. The Material for the Ligature.—This should be very pliable, soft, and slowly absorbable. Absorption should take place in from three to six months. Of the various materials recommended we need only mention silk, catgut, and kangaroo tendon. Of these, silk is the most certain as regards the firmness of the knot and the slow absorption of the ligature, but at the same time it sometimes happens that this material causes more irritation than is quite desirable, and the majority of surgeons therefore employ either catgut or kangaroo tendon for ligature of arteries in continuity. In the ordinary twisted or plaited silk a hard knot is formed, which is undoubtedly a source of irritation, and therefore if silk is to be employed, the soft floss silk ligature is the best, as it overcomes these objections very largely. Unless catgut be specially prepared, it is apt to be too quickly absorbed, but with the firm, thick, chromic catgut which is at present on the market, three months or more may elapse before absorption is complete, and this material is sufficiently pliable and much less irritating than silk; it can therefore be safely used for arteries of moderate size. Kangaroo tendon, which has come much into favour with many surgeons, has the disadvantage of being extremely slippery, and the first half of the knot is much more likely to relax during the tying of the second than when other materials are used. At the same time the tendon has the advantage of being a flat instead of a round ligature, and is probably therefore more suitable when it is desired to avoid division of the internal coats of the artery, for example, in the ligature of such vessels as the innominate; a double liga- ture must always be used here in order to avoid relaxation. It is of course of the utmost importance to remember that, whatever material be employed, it must be rendered absolutely aseptic, as asepsis is the great point to be aimed at in avoiding any risk of separation of the ligature, and therefore of secondary haemorrhage. Risks of Ligature.—The chief of these are (a) the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage, and (fi) the risk of gangrene in the parts supplied by the ligatured artery.