26o SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. it as quickly as possible. Should the neuritis occur in connection with a cicatrix, the scar must be excised; should it occur in connection with amputation flaps, a fresh amputation must be performed higher up, or the flaps must be freely opened up, and the ends of the nerves freed from the scar and cut short, so as to avoid the possibility of their implication a second time. In addition, any constitutional causes should be treated; if the patient be alcoholic, the alcohol should be cut off; should there be a distinct rheumatic tendency, treatment by salicylate of soda or salicin should be adopted; while, if the patient be gouty, a course of colchicum and iodide of potassium should be administered and the diet regulated. Similarly in syphilitic cases much good may be done by the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium, either alone or in combination with mercury (see Part I., p. 235). The general health should in any case be attended to. If there be anemia, the administration of iron and arsenic will often give great relief to the pain, while quinine is also a very valuable drug. I. In acute neuritis a mercurial or saline purge should be at once administered, five to ten grains of calomel being the best for the purpose. The patient should be confined to bed if the neuritis affect the lower extremity, or to a warm room if it be situated elsewhere. Should there be a septic wotmd, this should be treated energetically, carefully washed out and properly drained (see Part I., p. 185). The local treatment will be one of the methods already recommended for the treatment of acute inflam- mation (Part I., Chap. I.). Hot fomentations along the course of the nerve are often of considerable value, and to them a few drops of tincture of belladonna may be added with advantage; their action may be still further enhanced by applying an india-rubber hot-water bottle of suitable size outside them. The frequent use of baths as hot as they can be borne, or douching the part with hot water, will generally ameliorate the symptoms, and the employment of a Turkish bath may in some cases be followed by considerable relief. If, however, a Turkish bath be employed it must be one of the small portable baths which can be used in the patient's own room. It is of course impossible to allow anyone suffering from acute neuritis, to go out of doors for the purpose of taking a bath, because there would be a very considerable risk of catching cold afterwards, and, therefore, the affection might be considerably aggravated. The superheated air apparatus (Tallerman's) often gives good results, particularly when the neuritis affects the upper extremity. Local blood-letting, especially in the form of the application of leeches, along the course of the nerve, is very useful, and should be used when the fomentations do not give sufficiently prompt reUef. After the leeches have detached themselves, the hot fomentations should be continued. When the pain is very acute it will also be necessary to have resort to general anodynes, and those on which the chief reliance is to be placed are morphine and cocaine or eucaine. Of these, cocaine in doses of about a sixth of a grain injected hypodermically in the form of a 2 per cent, solution as near