SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. 3i6 those cases in which the aneurysm involves a short extent of the artery and is situated in the extremities, when of course it can be dissected completely out. Fusiform aneurysm, however, is comparatively rare in the extremities, and, as has been said, there is little or no tendency in it to the deposit of clots upon the wall. In cases of diffuse aneurysm the old operation is the one which should be employed wherever it is possible, on account of the great risk of the compression exerted by the effused blood upon the collateral circulation producing gangrene of the limb should the pressure not be relieved by the removal of the clots. CIRSOID ANEURYSM. By the term cirsoid aneurysm, or aneurysm by anastomosis, is meant a condition in which an artery or group of arteries is much enlarged, dilated, and tortuous; this forms a vascular mass consisting of numerous anastomosing branches, which may in fact be roughly described as an arterial naevus. The veins and capillaries in the neighbourhood are also enlarged in a similar manner. The affection may occur in almost any situation, but it is generally met with about the head and face, especially in the area of the tem- poral artery and its branches or upon the hand and lower part of the forearm. There is generally very free communication between the arteries and veins; the skin may become adherent to the tumour, and ulceration may ultimately occur, and repeated and even fatal haemorrhage ensue. Owing to the free communication with the veins, it may happen when the aneurysm is situated in the extremity that there is considerable interference with the return of blood. TREATMENT.—This is often a matter of considerable difficulty. Ligature of the main arterial trunk leading to the aneurysm has been tried in many cases, but has proved almost uniformly futile. The only method that offers any prospect of success is complete excision of the whole tumour. The aneurysm is cut down upon, the vessels entering and leaving it are clamped and tied, and the tumour is then carefully isolated from its blood supply, and dissected completely out. This operation is comparatively simple when the mass is small, but even then the number of large vessels requiring ligature may be very considerable. When the tumour is large the difficulties are enormously increased, and in some cases removal by operation is quite impossible. Recourse may then be had to electrolysis (see Part I., p. 266), which should be applied whilst the circulation through the aneurysm is controlled by pressure upon the main artery leading to it. The results, however, are seldom entirely satisfactory. In some cases of aneurysm by anastomosis about the wrist and palm of the hand, where the tumour threatens to rupture, it has actually proved necessary to perform amputation of the limb.