241 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. side; the bicipital groove can then be readily felt, especially if the elbow be pushed backwards. The tendon and its groove are exposed ; the former is readily replaced and the rent in the sheath stitched up over it by means of a continuous catgut suture. After the wound has been closed the arm should be put up in the position usually employed for fracture of the clavicle. The hand rests on the opposite shoulder, and the elbow is raised, while the arm is fixed to the chest with a bandage, over which starch solution is applied. As soon as the wound has healed the patient should be encouraged to move the arm, which may be left loose for the greater part of the day. At night, however, it should be firmly bound to the side in the position mentioned, because during sleep the patient might execute some sudden movement, which would lead to the escape of the tendon from its sheath once more. TENDON GRAFTING. An operation which may be referred to here is that of tendon grafting, which is chiefly employed for cases of deformity after infantile paralysis ; the principle of the operation is that, when a group of muscles is completely paralyzed and the limb rendered useless, one or more of their tendons should be attached to one belonging to a group which has its nerve supply intact. For example, when the tibialis anticus is paralyzed and the extensor longus digitorum is not, the tendon of the tibialis muscle may be attached to one of the tendons of the extensor, the result being that a certain amount of movement is obtained in a part previously incapable of it. This may be done by exposing the tendons of the sound and the paralyzed muscle at the same level. The tendon of the paralyzed muscle is then divided obliquely, the lateral surface of the sound one is pared, and the distal end of the tendon of the paralyzed muscle is applied to the raw surface thus made and stitched to it by fine catgut sutures (see Fig. 83). Or the tendon of the healthy muscle may be spHt, and the end of the other pared, inserted into it and stitched in position (see Fig. 84). Both these operations have been already described and illustrated (see p. 232). After either of these operations the limb should be put up in plaster of Paris, in the proper position, and movement should not be attempted for about three weeks, when the splints may be left off during the day but retained during the night. If either of these operations be done, it should be performed early in the progress of the case ; if some years have elapsed after the occurrence of the paralysis the tendon is imperfectly developed and shrunken, and very little good will result. OTHER AFFECTIONS. Inflammatory, syphilitic and tuberculous affections of tendons are secondary to similar affections of their sheaths ; as we have already dis- cussed these in the previous chapter, they need no further mention here. PT. II. o