354 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. of the thigh. The first tourniquet is screwed down very gradually so as to just compress the artery, and when the patient finds that the pain is becoming unbearable the second is tightened up and the first relaxed. In this way the pressure may be alternated, and may be rendered bearable for a considerable period. After-treatment.—When the compression is over, the limb should be disinfected, wrapped up in cotton wool, and elevated as after digital com- pression. The contact of anything hot (particularly hot-water-bottles) with the leg or foot should be studiously avoided in all cases, either of compression or ligature. It is not at all uncommon for the patient to complain of the feet being cold and to beg for a hot-water-bottle, but this should be absolutely prohibited, as a slough is very apt to form from the application of even a very moderate degree of heat. (b) Ligature.—^In the large majority of cases, as we have already said, the surgeon will resort to ligature of the femoral artery in preference to either digital or instrumental compression, and wherever it is feasible the superficial femoral should be the vessel tied. Should, however, the aneurysm happen to affect the upper part of the superficial femoral or the profunda femoris, it will be necessary to ligature the common femoral artery, and we shall describe this operation first. Of the Common Femoral Artery.—After the skin has been shaved and rendered thoroughly aseptic, the thigh is somewhat abducted and Fig. 130.—Ligature of the Left Common Femokal.— A. Femoral artery. N. Crural branch of genito-crural nerve. V. Femoral vein. F. Fascia lata. rotated outwards with the knee in the semi-flexed position supported by a suitable sandbag. The line of the artery is from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle of the femur. An incision two or three inches long, with its centre about half an inch below Poupart's ligament is made along this line (see Fig. 130); this divides the skin and superficial fascia, in which lymphatic glands are often met with; they should be pulled