CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 131 shall describe Lorenz's operative method which may either be employed when the non-operative one has failed or when the child is too old for it to be Hkely to succeed. These methods are chiefly applicable to children between the ages of two and seven years. Before and after that time little can be done beyond the employment of apparatus. It may be possible to obtain a good result by operative means in children over seven years of age, but it is rare. Treatment in early infancy.—A point of some practical import- ance in connection with the treatment of congenital dislocation is that at the present day the existence of the deformity has become so well known that it is very often recognized in earliest infancy; the nurse calls the doctor's attention to something wrong with the hip joint, and most practitioners are easily able to recognize the existence of a congenital dislo- cation. The question then arises as to what immediate steps are to be taken. An essential point in the method to be described immediately consists in the patient being able to walk, and therefore it is seldom advisable, or indeed possible, to practise it until the child is from two and a half to three years old. The patient's parents may, however, insist on something being done at this early period, and, indeed, it is advisable that some sort of treatment should be undertaken from the time the case is recognized. Probably the best plan is to employ suitable massage and manipulations during the time that must elapse before the child is of a fit age for the treatment recommended below. In early infancy there is, as a rule, no difficulty in bringing the head of the bone down into proper position, and this can be done several times daily by the nurse, and will serve to prevent shortening of the muscles. When the head of the bone has been pushed down completely, the other manipulations practised by Lorenz, namely, outward rotation with abduction and hyper-extension of the limb may be carried out; extreme care must be taken to perform all these movements with the utmost gentleness, and none of them should cause pain or provoke resistance. If treatment of this kind be persisted in steadily two or three times daily, there is no fear of the occurrence of any contraction sufficient to interfere with the subsequent reduction of the deformity. Some surgeons prefer to put the child up in an extension apparatus for the same purpose, but this is not nearly so satisfactory as the method we have described; because, in the first place, it is impossible to fix an infant up properly, and, in the second place, extension does not stretch the muscles jn the various directions that are necessary; the movements of abduction, over-extension, and outward rotation, modelled on those of Lorenz, must be carried out regularly, and should be employed until the child arrives at an age at which the more radical treatment can be undertaken. Lorenz's non-operative method.—The object of Lorenz's procedure is to bring the head of the femur down into position over the rudimentary acetabulum, to keep it there and then to cause it, by its constant pressure and friction as the child walks, to enlarge and deepen the rudimentary cavity