136 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. pelvis are then put up in a plaster of Paris spica, so as to fix the parts firmly. Extreme care has to be taken while doing this to see that the head of the bone remains in place, for should it slip out the whole pro- cedure would be futile. The knee should be flexed and included in the plaster (see Fig. 64). When the plaster has set, the patient is allowed to come round from the anaesthetic, and is put back to bed. At first the child generally cries a good deal, and complains of much pain, but this usually wears off in two or three days, and there are no further complaints. At this stage it is well as a matter of routine to have a skiagram taken (through the plaster casing) so as to ascertain whether the head of the bone remains in place. Should it have slipped out of position, as will also be shown by the re-appearance of lordosis, the deformity should be rectified and the limb put up as before. The plaster case is removed in from ten to twelve weeks; should it become sodden with urine or faeces, as not infrequently happens in young female children, the apparatus must be re-applied, but otherwise no further change in the position of the limb should be made till after the lapse of that time. If there be any doubt as to the recur- rence of the deformity, a skiagram will settle the question. During the time that the limb is in the first plaster casing, the parts are becoming con- solidated after the rough usage to which they have been subjected, the abductors become gradually shortened, and the tissues around the joint contract, so that when the plaster is removed it will often be found that the limb retains its abducted position for some little time. (4) Formation of tlie joint by pressure.—After the lapse of ten or twelve weeks the degree of abduction required to keep the head of the bone in place will generally not be nearly so great, and therefore the limb can be got into a position in which it is possible for the patient to put the foot to the ground; in fact, the object now is to bring the limb into a position suitable for carrying out the second part of the treatment, namely, the formation of a stable joint by the pressure exerted by the head of the bone in movement against the acetabulum. After the plaster is taken off, the abduction is gently and gradually diminished, as long as the head of the bone does not slip out of position. Directly a point is reached when the head of the bone is obviously becoming unstable, the limb is slightly more abducted, and a plaster of Paris spica again applied as before. The limb should be still somewhat over-extended and rotated outwards, the main difference between the new position and the old one being that the degree of abduction is now less. This position should be maintained for another ten or twelve weeks, and, if the position obtained at this second sitting be one in which the patient can put the foot to the ground, walking may commence immediately. A pad or patten about one inch in height is fixed to the boot of the sound limb, and the patient is taught to walk with the limb abducted. Every time the weight is borne upon the affected limb the head of the bone