265 NEURITIS. the form either of neurotomy or neurectomy. It is essential for the success of either of these operations that the portion of nerve divided or excised should be well above the seat of the inflammation, as otherwise the affection spreads upwards in spite of it. The nerve should be exposed as near its central origin as possible before it is divided. Of the two operations neurectomy is much more likely to be efficient than simple neurotomy; when the latter is employed for neuritis of sensory nerves the transmission of impulses is often very rapidly restored, and the relief given by the operation is but temporary. Neurectomy.—We are therefore forced to the conclusion that the best practice is to perform neurectomy when it is possible, and to excise a large portion of the nerve—two inches or more—so as to completely prevent the transmission of impulses along it. Moreover, after the nerve has been divided it is well to turn the divided ends to opposite sides of the wound, so that they do not lie in a straight line; there is thus a further obstacle to the possibility of subsequent union. The operation should, of course, be confined to purely sensory nerves, except in cases of inoperable malig- nant tumours, where loss of motion is of no consequence. When a sensory nerve cannot be exposed above the inflammatory area, the question of the removal of the posterior nerve roots of the affected trunk and the ganglion upon them must be entertained. The mere division of the nerve root, without the destruction of the ganglion upon it, does not seem to be nearly so effectual as complete excision of this structure, together with that part of the posterior nerve root upon which it lies. If this procedure is to be adopted at all, it should not be too long delayed, as otherwise the neuritis will have extended so far upwards as to have actually reached the spinal cord, and the patient will then be only very imperfectly relieved by operation. Excision of the posterior nerve roots.— In order to remove portions of the posterior nerve roots the spinal canal must be opened, and the spinal ■dura mater divided; the particular nerve roots can then be cut off close to their origin from the cord, and as much removed as can be reached. At the same time, the ganglion on each root thus excised should be taken away as completely as possible, either by cutting or tearing it away. Great care must be taken to avoid injuring the anterior roots, so as to obviate the motor paralysis that would otherwise ensue. The operation is done as follows. The patient is turned over upon the face, and, as the operation usually involves a very considerable amount of shock, all the measures re- commended for its prevention (see Part I., p. 138) should be carried out. The spinous processes of the vertebrte are carefully counted, and those which require removal are noted. In order to avoid mistake in the latter part of the operation, these processes may be marked out by driving a needle or some similar instrument into one of them, so as to act as a guide for identification later on. The early stages of the operation are •exactly the same as those for laminectomy for any other object. A I