306 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. firmly in contact by the ligature, and proliferation of the endothelium occurs, and leads to union between the opposed surfaces. While this is going on, the entire wall of the artery remains as a firm obstacle to the escape of blood, instead of only the external coat, as is the case when the two inner ones have been divided. Extensive experiments have been carried out by Ballance and Edmunds^ as to the amount of force required to constrict a vessel without rupturing the internal coats, and also as to the exact method in which a ligature should be applied so as to effectually occlude the lumen without rupturing the coats. Naturally the amount of force varies according to the particular artery in question; and there is also a very marked difference between that necessary to bring the walls into contact and that required to rupture the coats. The exact degree of force required under these circumstances in the large arteries has been accurately estimated by these authors, but in actual practice it can of course only be gauged by experience. As a matter of fact it is almost always possible to tell when the internal and middle coats rupture, as they can be distinctly felt to give way. In large vessels such as the innominate it is very difficult to avoid a ■certain amount of relaxation of the first half of the reef or surgical knot Fig. 98.—Occlusion of an Artery with- out DIVISION of its walls. ^ is a vertical section of a large artery thus tied, showing the pleating up of its walls. B shows the appear- ances presented on looking down upon the oc- clusion from above. {BallanceandEd»in7ids.) Fig. gg.—Method of tying a "Stay-Knot." In A the first loop of two ligatures lying side by side on the vessel has been tied. B shows the mode of finishing the knot. The two ends on each side are seized together as one and tied into the second loop of the knot. {Ballance and Edmunds.) 3l the moment of tying the second half when a single round ligature is used, and Ballance and Edmunds have therefore recommended that in its place two at least should be used, and should be appHed in the following manner. The two ligatures are first of all passed around the vessel side ^Ligation in Continuity, London 1891, Macmillan & Co.