ANEURYSMS OF THE UPPER ARM AND FORE-ARM. 339 length is made down to the bone, running inwards from the level of the coracoid process, The skin is then relaxed and the shoulder pushed up, when the wound in the skin and fascia is found to lie from a quarter to half an inch below the level of the clavicle. This exposes to view the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major, which is divided in the line of the wound and to the same extent as the skin. The lower portion of the muscle is then pulled well downwards by a retractor, and the costo-coracoid membrane (which is perforated by the cephalic vein, the branches of the acromio-thoracic artery and the anterior thoracic nerves) comes into view. These structures should be pulled to one side, generally outwards and upwards, and special care must be taken to avoid injury to the cephalic vein and the anterior thoracic nerves. A small incision is made into the costo-coracoid membrane, which is slit up in the direction of the external wound. This brings into view the edge of the pectoralis minor, which is pulled downwards, whilst the costo-coracoid membrane, and the vessels perforating it are pulled upwards and out- wards. After clearing away some fat the axillary vein appears as a large distended vessel at the lower part of the wound, whilst above the artery are the cords of the brachial plexus. The first of these cords which runs alongside the vein is the outer head of the median nerve, and in order to bring the artery into view this should be freed along its lower border and pulled well outwards while the vein is pushed inwards. The artery can now be seen and cleared. The aneurysm needle should be passed from within outwards so as to avoid the vein. The divided pectoralis major should then be stitched together in the manner already described for wounds of muscles (see p. 199); as a rule no drainage tube is required unless the patient be very fat. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—(«) in the Middle of the Arm the brachial artery is usually tied in its middle third as it lies over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis B. Fig. 114.—Ligature of the Right Brachial in the Middle of the Arm.— B. Biceps muscle. M. Median nerve. A. Brachial artery. U. Ulnar nerve. V. Venae comites. muscle. The line of this artery is from the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of a line connecting the two folds of the axilla downwards and forwards to the middle of the bend of the elbow. The vessel is overlapped to some extent by the inner edge of the biceps, and is generally crossed about its centre by the median nerve. The incision for ligature of the vessel should be about three inches in length and situated about the centre of the arm over the inner border of the biceps; the arm should be at right angles to the trunk. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the edge of the biceps usually comes into view, particularly if it be at all well developed. This muscle should be freed and pulled upwards, when the artery will be felt beating immediately beneath the finger. After the fascia over it has been divided, the median