CHAPTER XIX. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. WOUNDS. Wounds of veins are of importance both on account of the immediate and the remote effects that they produce. The immediate troubles which have to be dealt with when veins are wounded are (a) dangerous haemorrhage and {l>) entry of air into the vein. The remote troubles are chiefly thrombosis, embolism, pyaemia, and oedema of the part corresponding to the distribution of the vein. The immediate troubles are more common in connection with operation wounds; the remote troubles in accidental ones. VARIETIES.—Wounds of veins are usually described as punctured^ incised^ and contused, but, having regard to the question of treatment, it is better to speak of them as operation and accidental wounds. As a rule the bleeding from a wounded vein is comparatively slight and readily stops on light pressure, but in the case of the large trunks, such as the internal jugular or the femoral, the haemorrhage may at first be profuse, and, unless the bleeding point be compressed at once, the loss of blood may be very serious. The blood which flows from a wounded vein is of course dark in colour and escapes in a steady stream, but in a large vein, like the internal jugular at the root of the neck, the jet varies in height with inspiration and expiration. Wounds of veins heal readily, and complete occlusion of the lumen of the vessel by a thrombus does not necessarily occur; should it take place, the thrombus frequently becomes channelled at a later period by the formation of new vessels, and the circulation through the vein is eventually restored. TREATMENT—Of Haemorrhage,—This has already been referred to in Part I., p. 129. In the smaller veins temporary pressure alone, exerted either by means of a sponge or a pair of pressure forceps, is usually sufficient to arrest the haemorrhage, and in a short time the wound in the vein becomes closed by adhesion, and no further bleeding occurs. In the large veins some means of permanently closing the wound in the vessel should be adopted; unless this be done, pressure will have to be kept up for at