63 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. point of the instrument is introduced through the skin, the pressure upon the sole is relaxed, and the knife, with the blade held parallel to the surface, is then carefully insinuated between the skin and the fascia. The surgeon should bear in mind that the latter comes very close to the skin, and is often in intimate connection with it. After the blade of the knife has been pushed well beyond the tight band, the fascia is once more put firmly upon the stretch, the cutting edge of the knife turned towards it, and it is at once divided by a few downward strokes. After division of the first tense band it will generally be found that others start into prom- inence, and these must be methodically divided, either from the same puncture or from another more conveniently situated. After all bands that are felt to be tense have been divided, the foot should be forcibly stretched, either with the hand alone or aided by the wrench. If it be possible to stretch the foot sufficiently to get it quite straight, or rather into the over-corrected position, by the hand alone, it is far better to do so, as less damage is done to the tissues. In many cases, however, more particularly in the small feet of young children, it is difficult to stretch the sole adequately with the hand alone, and in these cases Thomas's wrench is usefully employed. This will be described presently when speaking of the treatment of talipes equino-varus (see p. 84). After-treatment.—After the foot has been thoroughly stretched in this manner, it should be brought into the over-corrected position, the small punctures dressed with cyanide gauze and collodion, and the metal splint already described (see p. 49) applied. Care must be taken in arranging the padding of the splint that no undue pressure is exerted upon the heads of the metatarsals; the padding should be somewhat thicker in front of and behind the balls of the toes, so as to leave a certain amount of depression into which they may sink. The foot is then firmly bound to the splint. Should the tendo Achillis not be too tight to allow the foot to come to a right angle, the patient may be allowed to stand, wearing the splint, within a week after the operation; the standing position helps still further to promote the stretching of the sole. Should, however, the contraction of the tendo Achillis be very marked, this will not be possible. If there be much pain complained of after the operation, the splint should be taken off and the padding readjusted. This is an important matter, for, should a slough form on the balls of the toes, very considerable trouble may result, and a permanently tender scar may be left behind. In many cases it is necessary to repeat the tenotomy of the plantar fascia some three or four weeks after the first operation. In no case should the tendo Achillis be divided until the foot has been thoroughly unfolded, and the sole restored to its normal condition. The second tenotomy should be practised further forward than the first, so as to divide the individual slips of fascia which escaped division in the first operation, and which have become tense subsequently. After the surgeon is satisfied