SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. 266 median vertical incision is made over the spinous processes right down to the bone; this should be at least four or five inches in length, and cor- responds of course to the vertebrae opposite which the affected nerve roots are given off from the spinal cord. The soft parts in the vertebral groove on each side are then rapidly stripped off the spinous processes and laminae by a suitable periosteum detacher well back to the transverse processes. This is much facilitated by a long incision; if the patient be very muscular or fat, a small transverse incision may be made at each end of the vertical one. At this stage of the operation there will generally be very free bleeding, but it is not advisable to waste time in attempting to pick up the bleeding vessels, as the haemorrhage is merely in the nature of very free oozing. The dissection should be carried out rapidly, and then a sponge as hot as the hand can bear should be firmly packed into the wound on the one side while the opposite vertebral groove is being cleared; when both sides have been cleared, any bleeding point that still continues to spout may be clamped. After retracting the soft parts thoroughly, the spinous processes should be identified so as to avoid the possibility of dividing the wrong nerves, and the spines should then be clipped off with a pair of cutting pliers bent at a suit- able angle (see Fig. 95). The Fig. 9s.—Laminectomy Pliers. number of SpinoUS prOCeSSeS removed should correspond to the number of laminse that will require division. The next step in the operation is to open the spinal canal by dividing the laminae; there are two methods of doing this. On the one hand, the lamina may be removed entirely; on the other, they may be simply divided, turned back, and subsequently replaced in position. Of the two operations the latter is of course undoubtedly the better, because after the operation the bony covering to the cord is restored, and all chance of adhesion between the cicatrix and the dura mater is avoided. On the other hand it considerably prolongs the operation, adds to the shock, and is not always easy to perform. We shall describe both methods, it being of course understood that the laminae should be retained whenever the condition of the patient renders it feasible. When it is decided to remove the laminae entirely, the lamina of one vertebra—it is immaterial which, but generally the one at the upper or lower limit of the incision is selected—is carefully cut through first on one side and then on the other, as far out as possible, either by a suitable bone forceps or by careful strokes with a hammer and chisel. This removal of the first neural arch is the most difiicult part of the operation. Great care has to be taken to prevent the point of the instrument penetrating through the dura mater and doing damage to the cord or to the nerve roots. When the section of the bone is completed, the lamina is removedl