TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 227 When a tendon has been divided, and the ends remain in fairly close apposition, the interval between them becomes filled up with clot, and, provided that there be no suppuration, young fibrous tissue forms between the ends in about a fortnight; in five or six weeks this will be dense and able to bear considerable strain, and ultimately it comes to closely resemble the normal tendon in structure. Apart from asepsis, the probability that a divided tendon will unite without surgical assistance depends to a great extent upon the particular tendon involved. For instance, the tendo Achillis unites much more readily than the flexors of the fingers, when they are divided within their synovial sheaths. In the latter case, if the ends of the tendon be not brought close together, they very quickly contract adhesions to the sheath, and their action is much interfered with, and may be entirely lost. Treatment.—When a tendon has been divided in an open wound, the patient should be placed under an anaesthetic as soon as possible, and steps taken (see Part I., p. 184) to render the wound aseptic, because proper union will not take place should suppuration occur, even though the divided ends be brought into apposition. If the soft parts only be injured, it is better not to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the wound, unless the latter be extremely dirty, because necrosis of the ends of the tendons might result, and thus interfere with satisfactory union. Primary tendon suture.—The next point is to stitch the divided ends together; if they be merely approximated, and not directly united, the result is seldom satisfactory. The ends of the tendon will almost certainly unite with the scar tissue, and, even if this do not occur, the lymph thrown out between the ends will not organize properly, and the function of the tendon will be more or less completely destroyed. The first important point is to find the divided ends; it is usually fairly easy to find the distal end, but the proximal one often offers considerable difficulty. The description of the various steps of the operation for tendon suture will be much facili- tated if we take as an example a case of transverse division across the front of the wrist. If the lower end of the divided tendon be not lying exposed in the wound, it will readily come into view on flexing the fingers and the wrist. When the cut end appears in the wound, it should be seized with a pair of tenaculum forceps, which are left on, so as to make sure that it does not again escape. The upper end is, however, difficult to find, because at the time of the accident the muscle usually retracts very markedly, and the tendon is often drawn up a long way within its sheath. The simplest way to expose it is to squeeze the belly of the muscle forcibly downwards after flexing the elbow joint fully ; in many cases it is thus possible to bring the tendon gradually into reach, so that it can be seized with a pair of catch forceps and pulled well down into the wound. If this plan be unsuccessful, the tendon may sometimes be brought into view by extending the other fingers; in other cases, it may be necessary to extend the incision upwards, and lay open the sheath until the divided end