279 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. the piece so detached is large enough to block the pulmonary artery, immediate death may result. The later history of the primary thrombus depends upon whether or not sepsis be present; in aseptic cases the clot becomes firmly adherent to the internal coat, remains solid, and sub- sequently becomes partly absorbed and partly converted into new tissue- In the process of organization, new venous spaces are very often formed, and extend through the clot from one end to the other ; the result of the organisation of the thrombus is that the lumen of the vein may either be restored from this channelling of the new tissue, or the vein may be converted into a fibrous cord. Not infrequently earthy salts are deposited in the thrombus in cases of long-standing phlebitis, so that Httle hard calcareous masses are formed in the interior of the vein, which are adherent to the walls and are usually found in the neighbourhood of the valves ; these are often spoken of as phleboliths. When the clot is septic, pyasmia is very apt to occur; this has already been described in connection with that disease. (See Part I., Chap. X.) Symptoms.—The disease may run an acute, sub-acute, or chronic course. Acute phlebitis is generally a septic affection. It is accompanied by high temperature, diffuse redness of the skin over the vein, and oedema of the tissues in its vicinity; later on, when the thrombus breaks down, septic emboli are formed and pyaemia develops. Between the acute and the chronic forms there are all sorts of gradations. In a typical case of phlebitis^ it is usual to find pain and tenderness in the part, and the formation of a hard cord in the course of the vein, with redness or dusky discoloration of the skin over it; the patient is otherwise well and there may be little or no pyrexia. These are the cases in which the greatest care should be taken in the treatment, because the patient is apt to under-rate the dangers, and there is often much difficulty in persuading him to lie up. The great danger in these sub-acute and chronic cases is the detachment of a portion of clot, and immediate death from pulmonary embolism. Another danger is that constant movement may lead to the gradual spread of the thrombus, and, as a result, to serious interference with the venous return and possibly pulmonary embolism later. CEdema is also a frequent sequel of phlebitis and thrombosis in the larger veins. How far it is merely a mechanical effect of the interference with the flow of the blood, and how far it is due to an altered and leaky condition of the capillaries, or to increased lymph formation or diminished lymph removal, are points which are still under discussion. In any case it can hardly be a purely mechanical effect. Treatment.—In the treatment of phlebitis and thrombosis it is, in the first instance, important to determine whether the case is one of true septic phlebitis or one in which there is no risk of the clot breaking down. In the first case the danger is pyaemia; in the second, pulmonary embolism or extension of the inflammation to the main veins and subsequent severe oedema of the limb below.