198 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. the muscle, and to stimulate the muscle-fibres themselves, so that by contracting they may regain a certain amount of power. Attempts to improve the circulation are best made by rubbing and kneading the muscle, especially in the upward direction, and spontaneous contractions of the muscular fibres are induced by repeated tappings and vibrations applied to the muscle itself, not so severe, however, as to paralyze it. Electricity.—In employing electricity, the Faradic current should be used, except where there is some joint lesion, and where, therefore, the contractions of the muscles which its action produces might aggravate the mischief. A large electrode, about three inches square, covered with chamois leather or thick flannel and well soaked with warm water or salt solution is applied to the spine, while another electrode, not less than two inches square, is applied to the skin over the affected muscle and moved slowly all over it, keeping in close contact with the skin. A current of about five milliamp^res or less is generally sufficient; the patient's sensations are, however, the best guide to this point; the current should never be strong enough to cause pain. If preferred, the two electrodes may be placed side by side on the skin and moved about. Each sitting should last from ten to twenty minutes, and should be repeated every other day or oftener for a considerable period. Manipulations.—At the same time that massage and electricity are employed frequent manipulations should be practised, except in cases of joint disease, with the view of stretching the muscles and preventing the occurrence of contractures. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. Injuries of muscles may vary in degree from a simple blow or con- tusion to complete rupture of the muscular fibres. CONTUSION of muscles sometimes gives rise to very considerable mischief. In the first place it leads to infiltration of blood among the muscular fibres, and this interferes with their action; in the second place it very often causes a temporary paralysis. As the result of a blow the muscle contracts, and this is followed by fibrillary twitchings, after which the muscle relaxes and may not recover its power for two or three days. When permanent paralysis of a muscle occurs after a blow it is usually due to damage to its nerve supply rather than to injury of the muscular fibres themselves. Haemorrhage into a muscle may be followed by a variety of troubles; it may lead to adhesion of the muscular fibres to each other, or to fibrosis and consequent impairment of function. In some cases calcareous salts are deposited in the muscle and calcification occurs; in others a true ossification may take place. Occasionally the effused blood is neither absorbed nor organized, but becomes encysted and forms a blood cyst in the substance of the muscle.