6 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. fingers (see Fig. 4, A). These attempts, however, always fail; the power of contraction of the granulations is so great that any elastic pressure that the patient can tolerate is powerless to prevent it. It is quite clear that if re-formation of the web is to be prevented, rapid healing of the wound must be obtained at the cleft between the fingers. The re-formation of the web is then less likely to occur. Two methods are employed with this end in view : in the one a perforation is made at the cleft of the fingers through the base of the web, and this is allowed to cicatrise completely before the latter is divided; in the other a flap is turned into the cleft so as to get immediate union there. Fig. 4.—Operations for Webbed Fingers bv Splitting the Web. A. The employment of the Elastic Band after Simple Splitting. After the web has been split from its free edge to its base, a piece of india-rubber {e.^. a drainage tube) is fastened by one end to a bandage round the wrist, put on the stretch and then carried across the cleft, and its other end fastened to the wrist bandage on the opposite side. The dotted line in the figure indicates the elastic band in front of the palm. B. The Ear-Ring Perforation. The figure shows the three stages of the operation. On the left is the ring of stout silver wire in situ ; in the centre is shown the method of splitting the web by a tenotome introduced through the perforation which has been allowed to cicatrize previously, whilst on the right the splitting is complete and the redundant edges of the split web are ready to be trimmed off. {a) The ear-ring perforation.—In the perforation method the plan adopted is practically identical with that employed in perforating the ear for ear-rings (see Fig. 4, B). A hole is made through the base of the web and a piece of stout silver wire is inserted through it, bent loosely round one of the fingers into a ring, and kept in position until cicatrization is complete. This requires some two or three weeks, at the end of which time a knife is introduced into the hole and the web split down to the free edge. Should the flaps left by splitting the web be at all redundant, the requisite amount may be removed on each side and the cutaneous edges united by suture, so as to get union by first intention throughout A B