6o CLUB-FOOT. exercises designed to develop the muscles that are at fault. By this time the uniting material will be sufficiently firm to connect the ends of the tendons; it is, however, not yet very strong, but the patient may be allowed to walk about, provided he walks largely flat-footed, and does not put much strain upon the tendon. At this stage the following arrangement will be found of great practical value. A piece of wood of suitable size and thickness, such as the lid of a cigar-box, long enough to extend from the heel to at least three inches beyond the tips of the toes, is taken and cut to the shape of the foot. A piece of strapping between two and three inches broad, and 4 Fig. aS.—Sayre's Apparatcjs for use aptek Tenotomv of the Tendo Achillis. The method of application is given sufficiently in detail in the text. The smaller sketch above is to illustrate the method of fastening the strapping to the foot-piece of the splint; it will be seen that it commences on the upper surface of the splint near its anterior margin, runs backwards along the upper surface, down round the posterior edge and finally runs forward along the under surface and round the anterior margin of the splint, where it terminates in a long free end which is shown applied to the thigh in the larger drawing. The length of the foot-piece varies ; the more lever.ige it is desired to exert the further should it project beyond the toes. sufficiently long to reach from the middle of the thigh to the toes and then twice the length of the splint, is applied first to the upper surface of the splint, beginning near its anterior extremity, carried along the upper surface, round the posterior edge, and then along the lower surface and over the anterior edge again. This part of the strapping is then firmly incorporated with the splint by means of two or three transverse pieces of strapping (see Fig. 28). Upon the splint thus prepared are laid two or three thicknesses of boracic lint so as to form a padding, and the splint is then fastened at the heel, sandalwise, by a broad strip of strapping passing around the instep and the posterior part of the splint to the front of the foot; the splint is then secured to the foot by an ordinary bandage. The