SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. 256 similarly refreshed and attached in like manner lower down upon the ulnar (see Fig. 91). The principle of this method is that new nerve fibres will grow downwards within the sheath of the ulnar nerve, and reach and enter the lower end of the median again; or, failing this, that impulses will be conducted through the intervening portion of the ulnar, and will pass downwards along the distal portion of the divided median. Fig. gx.—Nerve-Grafting by Double Lateral Im- plantation. In 5 is shown the method described in the text. The divided ends of the median nerve tn are refreshed and sutured to two raw surfaces made ready to receive them on the lateral surface of the ulnar nerve it. ^ is a similar method designed for use when both of two parallel nerves are divided. The proximal end of one nerve is united end- to-end with the distal end of the other, and the two remain- ing free ends, a and rf, are implanted laterally on to the single trunk thus formed. Fig. 92.—Nerve-Grafting BY Single Lateral Implan- tation. This is the second method described in the text. The dibtal end of the median nerve «/ is implanted laterally upon the ulnar ii while the proximal bulbous end of ihe median m is left untouched. The second method is to attach only the distal end of the divided nerve to the sound one (see Fig. 92), by a lateral implantation similar to that just described, in the hope that new nerve fibrils will grow outwards from the ulnar nerve into the lower end of the divided median, and thus provide a fresh nerve supply for the muscles supplied by that portion of the median. This, however, is a method that cannot be at all recommended, as practically it invariably fails. Results.—The success likely to attend cases of nerve-suture depends upon three main factors; firstly, the accurate approximation of the divided ends; secondly, the length of nerve which has to be regenerated; and thirdly, the condition of the muscles at the time regeneration occurs. The length of time which elapses between the division of the nerve and the perfor-