SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 278 on the proximal side, before they are divided, and partly by avoiding all muscular movement on the part of the patient. When air is sucked in—an occurrence often indicated by the characteristic hissing sound—pressure should be at once applied to the proximal end of the vein, and the wound flooded with lotion so as to prevent more air entering. The treatment in cases where air has entered will be found in Part I., p. 143. Among the remote complications of wounds of veins are inflammation or phlebitis, and, associated with this condition, thrombosis, and possibly subsequent embolism. If the thrombosis be septic, the clot may break down, and portions of it may become detached and lead to abscesses, in various parts of the body (see Pyaemia, Vol. I., Chap. X.). Secondary hsemowhage may also occur from a wound in a vein, but this is very rare nowadays, and generally only takes place in septic wounds in which the clot breaks down and the blood escapes from the end of the vein that is thus allowed to re-open. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. PHLEBITIS AND THROMBOSIS.—By phlebitis is meant in- flammation of a vein, and by thrombosis, the formation of a coagulum,. either white or red, or both, within the lumen of a blood-vessel, most often a vein; thrombosis is a constant result of phlebitis. Inflammation may affect the lining membrane of the vein, when it is termed endo-phlebitis ;. or all the coats of the vein, when it is known as phlebitis proper; or the sheath of the vein and the tissues in which it lies, in which case it is called peri-phlebitis. The term phlebitis is, however, usually employed in the widest sense, and includes both endo- and peri-phlebitis. Causes.—The condition may arise from a variety of causes. For example, it may follow an injury which causes bruising of the wall of the vein and the subsequent formation of a thrombus in its interior; it may originate in connection with a septic wound; it may be associated with gout or rheumatism, or with general poisons, such as alcohol or lead, cir- culating in the blood ; or it may follow debilitating diseases, such as typhoid fever, when it is probably of an infective character. It most frequently attacks veins which are already unhealthy, notably those that are varicose and those in which the circulation is unduly slow, or in which there are eddies in the blood stream. Pathological Changes.—The changes which occur in the vein are thickening of its wall, proliferation of its endothelial lining, swelling of the internal coat, and early formation of white clot, with ultimate blocking of the lumen of the vessel. The clot thus formed may extend upwards to- the nearest branch ; or, if a branch only be affected, the clot may reach the main vein itself, and may there project into its lumen. As a result of any sudden movement this projecting portion may become detached and carried on by the blood stream, and give rise to an embolus; whea