206 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. If, in spite of full relaxation of the limb, it should be found quite impossible to bring the ends of the muscle into apposition, it may be necessary to divide the muscle higher up, in a zig-zag manner, so as to lengthen it. Beginning at one side of the proximal portion of the muscle, and three or four inches above the rupture, an incision is carried obliquely upwards for about two inches, then obliquely downwards again to the original level, then upwards, and so on to the other side, until a zig-zag incision giving rise to a series of serrations or V's has been carried across the muscle. The portion below this incision is then pulled down until only the apices of the serrations or V's remain in contact; the adjacent sides of the serrations are then stitched together, so that the muscular fibres terminate in blunt cones, one above and one below the original zig-zag incision. The apices of these cones are then stitched together (see Fig. 75). After-treatment.—During the subsequent treatment, the gradual stretching of the muscle must be carried out more slowly and carefully than after a recent rupture, but usually after about six or eight weeks the limb can be extended to its fullest extent, and the splint can then be left off; the patient may be allowed to commence walking in about ten weeks after the operation. In all these cases it is particularly important to divide all adhesions between the muscle and the surrounding tissues at the time of the operation, as otherwise proper movement will not be obtained afterwards; if it be done at the time of the operation, the gradual stretching of the muscle and the subsequent move- ment will prevent these firm adhesions from re-forming. Union of muscles with fractures.—An accident which sometimes happens in connection with fractures, is that the torn muscular fibres become united to the fractured ends of the bone; or, in other cases, the bones are displaced, and, although the muscular fibres are not markedly damaged, the muscle becomes adherent to the displaced bones. Treatment.—In the early stages of this condition, namely, within a few ■weeks after the injury, a good deal may be done in the way of getting rid of these adhesions by massage; this is especially the case where the muscles have not been ruptured. When a muscle has been ruptured, or when a considerable time has elapsed before the patient comes under observation, it is usually necessary to have recourse to operative interference. Operation.—The usual curved incision (see p. 202) is made, the fracture exposed, and the muscle carefully detached from the bone. It may also be necessary, if the ends of the bones be much displaced, to chisel away pro- jecting portions, or, if there be considerable deformity, to divide the union and bring the bones into proper position. Where there has been no rupture of the muscular fibres the wound is then closed, and, as soon as healing is complete, massage is begun and full movements encouraged. Where, however, the muscle has been ruptured, and the ruptured ends have become adherent to the broken bones, the former must be carefully detached and all fibrous tissiie cut away from between the divided ends, which are then ■united in the manner already described (see p. 199). Should this condition