COXA VARA. 125 an aluminium plate secured in position by tin-tacks. A piece of sheet aluminium about half an inch wide, long enough to encircle about three- quarters of the femur, and sufficiently thick to be firm though flexible, is drilled with holes in several places, curved so as to embrace the femur, and applied to the bones half above and half below the point of division (see Fig. 59); it is then nailed to the two fragments by ordinary tin- tacks which have previously been nickeled. The plate when thus fastened holds the bone securely in its new position until union is complete. After it has been fixed, the wound is closed without a drainage tube, the usual antiseptic dressings applied, and the limb put up upon a back splint which is best made of a trough of Gooch's splinting (see p. loi); this is then laid upon an inclined plane at an angle of about 45° with the bed. Splint and limb should be rotated inwards so as to maintain the leg in a position of internal rotation. The body is fixed by a sheet passed over it and kept in position by sandbags on either side of the trunk. The dressing need not, as a rule, be changed until bony union is complete, which will be in about six weeks' time; the bandages, will, how- ever, require tightening from time to time, and it is well to rub them over with a starch solution in order to prevent them from slipping. After six weeks the stitches are removed and the limb may be taken out of the splint, but it is well to keep the patient in bed for two or three months, because in these ricketty subjects, although union readily takes place, a considerable time is often required for thorough consolidation, and should the patient be allowed to bear weight upon the limb too soon, bending may occur. After two or three months the patient may begin to walk, and it will be found that in a very short time he is able to do so quite well. The rationale of this proceeding is that the hip joint is left undisturbed, whilst the rotation of the foot, as far as walking is concerned, is completely corrected, for, although the trochanter does not rotate as far forwards as it should, the foot is in its normal position when it is rotated inwards as far as it can go. On the other hand, when the trochanter is rotated out- wards to its extreme limit, the foot is usually in the position of normal external rotation. The results of these operations are, as far as our experience goes, extremely satisfactory, and surprising benefit has followed in two directions. In the first place, when only one leg has been operated upon, we have found that very marked improvement has taken place in the rotation of the other limb, in fact, in both the cases mentioned in the British Medical Jourtial, although we intended to operate upon the second limb after a due interval, we found that the spontaneous improvement in it was so marked, after the patient had walked about for some months, that the second operation did not appear necessary (see Fig. 60). Why this improve- ment in rotation should occur is somewhat diflficult to explain, but it seems probable that when the patient begins to walk with one leg in a good