TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 235 Sometimes non-union is met with after rupture of the tendo Achillis, either because the case has not been treated, or because for some reason satisfactory union has not occurred. Hence it may be necessary to operate in order to obtain restoration of function. The operation should be done on the lines already laid down for the operations for uniting tendons after division in open wounds (see p. 227). As there is here no scar tissue it is well in operating to use a curved incision so that the skin incision is as far away as possible from the line of union in the tendon. In the case of the tendo Achillis, a curved incision is made with the convexity extending well over towards the outer side of the limb, the centre of the curve being at a point opposite that at which it is hoped to unite the tendon, and the ends being well over the inner border of the tendon. A flap consisting of skin, superficial and deep fascia, is raised and turned inwards, and then the divided ends of the tendon are sought for, the fibrous tissue removed, and the ends united. {/)) Rupture of the ligamentum patellae.—In the case of rupture of the ligamentum patelte, on the other hand, the mere employment of position seldom yields a satisfactory result, and it is therefore well, whenever possible, to employ immediate suture of the tendon. As a rule the tendon is torn off close to or at the patella, and the operation is apt to involve opening the knee joint. The incision made should be a curved one with the convexity downwards, and the lower limit of the incision should run below the tuberosity of the tibia. The flap should be turned up and the torn ligament exposed. Any loose tags of tendon are clipped away, and the latter is united in the manner already described (see p. 228). In the case of a broad tendon like the ligamentum patellae, it is advisable not merely to have a thread at each side of it, but also to have one or two in the central part; in the intervals between these a continuous catgut suture should be inserted. After the tendon has been stitched, the wound is closed, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the leg placed on a back splint which is considerably raised on a suitable pillow or rest in order to relax the quadriceps extensor fully. The splint is gradually lowered during the first fortnight until, at the end of that time, it lies flat on the bed. In about three weeks after the operation the splint may be left off, and the patient encouraged to move the limb in bed, but he should not be allowed to get about until six weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury. This method of treatment is the best in most cases, particularly when the patient is healthy and vigorous, and the asepsis of the wound can be depended upon. But when the surgeon has not sufficient confidence in his asepsis, when the patient objects, or when his health is such that operation is deemed inadvisable, the case should be treated by position, which is carried out in the following manner. The limb is shaved, and a broad piece of strapping, extending about half-way up the limb and reaching down to the tubercle of the tibia, is fixed over the front of the thigh. The