SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 142 the separated epithelium may remain in contact with the raw surface beneath and protect it against external sources of irritation. If possible, rest should be enforced, and some simple antiseptic application, such as dilute boracic ointment (one-fourth of the B.P. ointment), should be employed. Where the patient is compelled to get about, some form of hollow pad designed to keep the pressure off the blister should be pro- vided. Where it is merely necessary to prevent the surface of the blister from being irritated by the clothes, etc., a very useful method in parts other than the feet is to protect the raw area by means of a perforated convex Fig. 66.—Celluloid Shields. The shield is inserted in the centre of a sheet of adhesive plaster, by means of which it is applied to the limb. In the figures two holes are represented in each shield; these aie to permit of evaporation. celluloid shield (see Fig. 66) fastened over the part by strapping. These shields are of various shapes and sizes; the dressing to the blister lies in the shield and is kept in place by it. CALLOSITIES. These are more or less indurated, prominent yellowish portions of skin, shading off at their edges, and consisting essentially of thickening of the horny layer of the epidermis. They are due to repeated friction and they may or may not be preceded by blisters. Cessation of the pressure will lead to disappearance of the callosity, but while it lasts it is often extremely painful, and a bursa may form beneath it and become inflamed or suppurate. TREATMENT.—When the callosity is causing pain, it is well to shave off as much of the thickened epidermis as possible, after softening it by prolonged soaking in water as hot as can be borne, and then to apply salicylic collodion (100 grains of salicylic acid to the ounce of flexile collodion) and to repeat this application night and morning. This should be combined with the use of a hollow pad to prevent pressure, which may consist of a corn-plaster or of the thick so-called "elephant plaster"; the plaster, which is spread on thick felt, should be of sufficient size to overlap the thickened area in all directions for three-quarters of an inch, and a hole corresponding in size to the callosity should be cut in its centre. This treatment will usually lead to the disappearance of the affection.