TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 237 short upper portion had curled up and become so matted to the tissues around that it was impossible to define it properly, or to get any satisfactory approximation. As the patient was completely disabled, a hole was bored transversely through the tubercle of the tibia and another transversely through the lower end of the patella, and a loop of strong silver wire was passed through these holes, and twisted up as tightly as possible. The remains of the ligamentum patellae were then united by sutures and the wound closed. Healing took place by first intention, and the patient was allowed to walk about from the third week onwards, reliance being placed on the silver wire to act as a ligamentum patellae. A year has now elapsed since the operation ; the wire is still in position ; the patient can bend his knee almost to a right angle, and has complete use of the limb. (<r) Rupture of the long head of the biceps cubiti.—We may also here refer to rupture of the long head of the biceps cubiti muscle. This is generally torn from its scapular attachment, and no method of treatment by position is completely satisfactory. The plan in general use is to fix the arm across the chest, the shoulder and the elbow being fully flexed, but, as may be readily imagined, union is not satisfactory, because the end of the tendon is pulled away from its attachment to the glenoid cavity. The only way in which a completely satisfactory result can be looked for is by operation. This is, however, very difficult. It involves opening the shoulder joint, and it is very doubtful whether the disability of the limb caused by rupture of this tendon is so great as to make such an elaborate operation worth while. We, therefore, recommend treatment by position in these cases. In order to fix the arm in the position alluded to above (which is a very irksome one) strapping is used. The axilla, arm and chest are shaved, and a broad strip of strapping is applied to the back of the upper arm, beginning near the shoulder joint; this is brought down over the back of the elbow, the forearm and the hand, and the limb is fixed in a position of full flexion. The elbow must be flexed before the strapping is applied. The strapping is carried over the opposite shoulder and across the back, and is pulled tight enough to produce a sufficient degree of flexion. A second strip is then carried horizontally across the lower part of the arm just above the elbow, and then across the chest, so as to fix the arm to the side, this latter turn being repeated two or three times. A bandage is finally applied over' all, and it is well to rub a starch solution into this, so as to form a firm dressing which will not stretch or slip. This apparatus must be kept on for about four weeks. DISLOCATION OF TENDONS.—The tendons most liable to dis- placement from violence are the peroneus longus at the outer ankle and the long head of the biceps cubiti, which may become dislocated from the bicipital groove. Dislocation of the peroneus longus tendon is the more common accident, and it usually results from the patient trying to regain his balance;