73 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. TALIPES VALGUS. As a congenital affection, this condition is comparatively rare; when it does occur it is most frequently associated with absence of the fibula. Even as an acquired affection, the deformity is not very common ; it then most commonly results from infantile paralysis, and the deformity is produced by the unbalanced actions of the peronei muscles, the tibiales and extensors of the foot being more or less completely paralysed. It may also occur in connection with ricketty deformities of the leg, or faulty union of fractures of the tibia and fibula. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The principal alterations in the foot are stretching of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint with a corresponding amount of contraction of the external lateral ligament, and to a lesser degree, stretching of some of the other ligaments on the inner side of the foot. In the early stage it is quite easy to bring the foot into its normal position by manipulations alone, but in the later stages, as in all other cases of club-foot, the ligaments and the muscles (more especially the peronei) become contracted, and will require division before the foot can be restored to its normal position. In very severe or long-standing cases a certain amount of alteration in the shape of the bones also occurs, and this will form a still further obstacle to the reduction of the deformity. TREATMENT.—In the early cases, in which the position of the foot can be readily rectified by the hand alone, the treatment will consist in preventing the occurrence of the deformity, and in trying to increase the strength of the weakened muscles, so as to enable them to pull up the inner border of the foot. This should be done, as in the other forms of paralytic talipes, by manipulations carried out by the nurse (who gradually inverts the foot, and brings it inwards at the mid-tarsal joint), aided by massage and douchi?tg of the muscles, (particularly the tibiales and extensors of the toes), and the employment of the galvafiic current. In the intervals between the massage and passive movements, the foot should be kept in the corrected position by means of a suitable apparatus. In the early stage, before the patient learns to walk, the metal splint, which we have already frequently mentioned (see p. 49), is the most satisfactory, but when the patient is able to get about, he should be encouraged to do so with an apparatus designed to prevent eversion of the foot. This consists of the usual leg irons, the outside one being particularly strong, jointed at the ankle, and hinged to the heel of the boot, which should be constructed of thick leather, and should have the inner side of the sole and heel slightly thicker than the outer (see Fig. 37). The heel should also extend further forwards than is usually the case; in fact, the boot should be made much on the same lines as those recommended for flat foot (see p. 40), for in these cases of talipes valgus a certain amount of flat foot is generally present, and must be corrected. In many cases it is well also to employ Whitman's springs (see p. 39). The boot should only be worn while walking,