122 CURVATURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. that the movements of the hip-joint are restricted and abnormal. It is this condition of pain, restriction of movement and limping that usually makes him resort to the surgeon. If the case be left to itself the ultimate result is that the bone under- goes consolidation in the faulty position and the deformity is thus per- manent ; the patient is compelled to limp about with the feet turned out and suffers considerably from interference with the free movement of the hip-joint. TREATMENT—(i) In young children.—This is a question of the greatest difficulty, and we shall here only describe the treatment which we ourselves are accustomed to carry out. While the child is quite young and the bones are very soft, it is worth while to make an attempt to rectify the abnormal curves by means of extension and manipulations. (a) Mechanical.—It is not easy to devise an apparatus to maintain steady pressure upon the bone in a direction such as to restore the normal curvature of its neck, but the following arrangement (see Fig. 57) is Fig. 57.—Extension Apparatus for Coxa Vara. The anterior ends of the foot- pieces are approximated by the india-rubber spring attached to the hooks a. The amount of abduction is regulated by the transverse bar ; the limbs can be approximated or separated by passing the pivots i through the different holes in the transverse bar f. These holes are made large enough to allow the limb to rotate Inwards easily when in the abducted position. Extension is made from the hook in the centre of the trans- verse bar. worthy of a careful trial. Two strips of malleable iron of suitable length are applied along the back of each lower limb. They should reach from the centre of the thigh above and should be accurately adapted to the middle line of the back of the thigh and the calf, being bent round behind the heel and up along the centre of the sole, pro- jecting for several inches beyond the tips of the toes and ending there in a hook (a). Opposite the under surface of each heel there is a pivot (l>) over which passes the perforated end of a transverse bar (<r) which can be lengthened or shortened at will, and from the centre of which extension of both limbs can be made simultaneously by a weight and pulley at the end of the bed. This transverse bar is designed to keep the limbs in the requisite position of abduction during extension, while its extremities provide fixed points about which the limbs can