SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 280 (a) Acute Septic Phlebitis.—The treatment of acute septic phlebitis has already been referred to in speaking of the treatment of pya;mia (see Part I., Chap. X.); the vein must be exposed well on the proximal side of the thrombus, as far from the affected spot as is judicious, tied in two places and divided between the ligatures. An incision must then be made over the seat of the inflammation, the pus around the vein evacuated and the part containing the thrombus excised; if that be impossible, the vein should be opened and the clot thoroughly removed by scraping and irrigation. Any branch that is patent should also be cut off by ligature and division. It is very important not to be content with simply tying the main vein, because the septic clot may spread to other veins and may thus get into the circulation again in a somewhat roundabout way. We need not go further into the treatment of septic thrombosis; the reader should refer to the chapter on pyaemia (Part I., Chap. X.). (b) Sub-acute and Chronic Phlebitis.—In sub-acute or chronic phlebitis, occurring, for example, in varicose veins, the first essential is to avoid the risk of the clot becoming detached and being carried into the general circulation. The patient should be rigidly confiiied to bed, and the affected limb put on a suitable splint and somewhat elevated; the dangers of the affection should be clearly explained so as to ensure tliat the patient shall keep quiet and avoid any muscular exertion which would tell on the inflamed vein. For the relief of the pain and in order to try to arrest the inflammation, wld should be apphed in the first instance; this may be in the form either of an ice-bag, or, in old and feeble people, of lead and opium lotion.^ When the pain is very intense and cold does not relieve it, and particularly if the patient be weakly, warm fomentations should be substituted. Of these two applications, warm fomentations used soon after the commencement of the disease are, as a rule, more eff"ectual both in reUeving the pain and arresting the inflammation. When the pain is severe, the administration of opium may be called for; digitalis is also useful in the acute stage when there are no symptoms to contra-indicate it. After the acute pain has subsided, glycerinujn belladonnce (B.P.) should be smeared thickly but very gently over the part, and a layer of cotton wool applied outside. Care must be taken in applying this merely to spread it over the surface of the skin without employing friction; otherwise there is a risk of disturbing the clot. The limb should be kept at rest for three weeks at the very least. It takes about that time for a clot to become organised and adherent to the wall of the vessel in which it lies, and before this time has elapsed there is always a risk that movement may lead to its detachment. In the clinical history of phlebitis, especially when it is associated with gout or with varicose veins, it is not infrequently found that after the lapse of a week or ten days, when the patient is apparently getting better, there is a fresh ^Tinct. Opii m.x-xx, Liq. plumb, subacet. dil. ad 3j.