TRUE ANEURYSM. its oscillations will mechanically lead to the necessary scarifications of the wall (see Fig. 100). Macewen recommends that the scarification should be carried out for about ten minutes at one spot, and then the position of the point of the pin should be shifted so as to do the same at another point; in this way the greater part of the sac wall should be gone over. To do this the pin need not be withdrawn from the puncture in the skin; it may be left in the aneurysmal sac for some hours, but the longest time that Macewen recom- mends is 48 hours. While in siiu the pin should be surrounded with a piece of antiseptic gauze, and when it is with- drawn a small antiseptic dressing is applied, fixed on with collodion and kept in place for several days. Should the aneurysm be very large, several pins may be introduced at different points, a suitable interval being left between each so as not to do too much damage to the wall at any one point. The action of this procedure is slow; some- times it may be weeks before any noticeable thickening of the coats is made out; sometimes, on the other hand, it may be much more rapid. The pins may be introduced on several occasions; it is well to leave an interval of a week to a fortnight between each introduction.- In several cases this plan has resulted in marked improvement; in one or two it has even produced an apparent cure of the aneurysm. In all cases, however, where either galvano-puncture or the introduction of needles is to be employed, it should be used at an early period in the disease before the sac has become too large and its coverings too much thinned. Summary.—It will be evident from what has gone before that in a sacculated aneurysm any of the above methods are applicable according to the circumstances of the case and the anatomical relations of the part. The precise indications for the choice of any one particular method in individual cases will be discussed in detail when we deal with the various aneurysms. It is here sufficient to say that, wherever it can be employed, the best method is the old operation of removing the sac, and ligaturing the vessel above and below; failing that, the ne.xt best is Anel's or the Hunterian ligature. Where these are not apphcable, distal ligature should be resorted to, and failing any of these we can only fall back upon galvano- puncture, or the use of Macewen's needles, and the employment of general medicinal treatment. In cases of fusiform aneurysm the Hunterian operation is practically the only method which offers a reasonable prospect of success, except in Fig. 100.—Macewen's Method of treat- ing LARGE Aneurysms. The method is ex- plained fully in the text. The dotted lines show the position of the steel pin as it is made to scarify fresh portions of the sac wall.