89 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. of the deformed bones. Nothing further need be said here concern- ing this method; it is only a somewhat more extended application of that already described for the second group of cases. In carrying it out it will often be found that the subcutaneous division of the tight structures must be repeated after an interval of from three to six weeks, and that the wrenching will also require repetition more than once. If, after a fair trial of this method of treatment, say for six months or a year, it be found that success is not likely to be attained, the surgeon must then proceed to some more severe operation, either Phelps' or some modification of it. (/S) Phelps' operation is performed as follows. After the foot has been rendered thoroughly aseptic, it is placed with its outer side upon a firm sand- bag, and an incision is made, commencing about half an inch in front of the tip of the internal malleolus, and extending downwards, and slightly forwards, to the sole. It is important not to carry this incision further down than the middle point of the sole, as otherwise trouble may afterwards ensue from pressure upon the scar in walking. The incision commences above, in close proximity to the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and it should divide all the structures down to the bone, and should run parallel to, and slightly in front of, the marked transverse crease in the foot, which corresponds roughly to the mid-tarsal articukaon. The tendons of the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles, the plantar fascia and the muscles of the great toe are divided in this incision. As it is deepened in its progress to the bone, a portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and the ligaments about the mid-tarsal joint, are divided, and thus the head of the astragalus is exposed. When this has been done, the foot is forcibly wrenched into proper position, and any tight structures remaining undivided, and resisting the straightening of the foot, are thereby torn through. After this forcible straightening a deep triangular gap is left in the position of the incision, and this may either be left to heal by granulation, which is, of course, a very tardy process, or it may be covered in by skin-grafts, either immediately or, better still, after the lapse of about ten days. The method of skin-grafting has already been detailed in Part. I., p. 50. The foot is secured to a metal splint in the corrected position. Should the tendo Achillis require division, as is generally the case, this is better done after an interval of from six to eight weeks, for the reasons which have already been mentioned (see p. 81). When the wound has healed, (which usually takes several weeks), the foot may be put up in plaster of Paris, and the after- treatment requires very careful attention. In these bad cases there is a very strong tendency to recurrence of the deformity, which is greatly aided by the contraction of the large scar left on the inner side of the foot; care must therefore be taken to counteract this tendency, and special precau- tions must be adopted for many months; in fact, the after treatment of these cases, when the wound has healed, is practically the same as that suitable for those in which a less severe operation has been done. This operation has in many cases been very successful, although it is a