CLUB-FOOT. 56 (i) In the first grroup, all that is necessary is to divide the tendo Achillis, and then to maintain the foot in proper position by means of suit- able apparatus; this may advantageously be combined with exercises. Some authorities recommend that exercises alone should be employed so as to stretch the calf muscles gradually, and advise that tenotomy should not be done. It may be possible in some cases to overcome the trouble in this way, but as a general rule it is neither a satisfactory nor a safe pro- cedure. The constant pulling upon a tight tendon is extremely apt to set up spastic contraction in the calf muscles, and also to lead to a fibroid thickening in the muscles, both conditions being likely to increase the contraction. On the other hand, division of the tendo Achillis is followed by such satisfactory results that there is no reason whatever for adopting a longer, more painful, and less certain method. The operation is per- formed as follows. After the patient has been anaesthetised, and the part thoroughly disinfected, the limb is turned over upon its side, steadied upon a sandbag, and the surgeon then introduces a tenotomy knife on one side of the tendo Achillis—for choice on the inner side. The tenotomy knife should be very sharp, with a cutting edge of not more than a quarter of an inch in length; the rest of the blade should be rounded, narrow, and blunt, so as to lie in the small puncture in the skin made by the cutting portion without increasing the opening. Much difference of opinion exists as to whether this or any other tendon should be divided by introducing the knife along the deeper surface of the tendon and cutting towards the skin, or vice versa, by insinuating the knife between the skin and the tendon, and dividing the latter by cutting towards the deeper structures (see Fig. 27). The objections urged against the former procedure, which is the one more often adopted, are of considerable import- ance. In the first place it is very easy to include between the knife and the skin vessels or nerves, which must then be inevitably divided along with the tendon; in the second place the surgeon is very apt, in his anxiety to avoid the inclusion of these structures between the knife and the tendon, to puncture the latter, and to leave some fibres undivided,—an occurrence which would render the whole operation nugatory; finally, when the last fibres are divided, and the tendon suddenly gives way under the knife, the latter is very apt to be thrust through the skin, and thus to convert a subcutaneous operation into an open one. As a matter of fact, many surgeons, with the view of avoiding the latter accident, employ two knives, the first, a sharp-pointed one for making the track, and the other, a blunt- pointed one which is introduced along the track, after withdrawal of the first, and made to divide the tendon. This is, however, a quite unnecessary complication, the more so as it is not easy to push the blunt instrument along the track made by the sharp one. The objection urged against division of the tendon from without inwards is chiefly that, as the tendon gives way, the knife may divide important structures beneath; as a matter of fact most of these structures lie in soft mobile tissues, and yield before