2l8 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. villous outgrowths. This condition resembles that sometimes found in rheumatoid joints, where the synovial fringes become hypertrophied, a con- dition which is known as " lipoma arborescens." In these cases the chances of getting a good result without an extensive operation are com- paratively slight. Many cases of chronic teno-synovitis are, however, tuberculous in nature, and in these the fluid is scanty and turbid, and very often contains rice-like bodies, and there is thickening of the wall of the sac. There is then much more pain and stiffness, less marked fluctuation, tendency to the formation of abscesses, and other signs of tuberculosis. We shall describe this affection separately. Treatment.—(a) Simple chronic teno-synovitis.—Where there is limpid fluid and the wall of the sheath is not thickened, the best treatment is to open the sac antiseptically and drain it; this will usually suffice to effect a cure. An incision is made into the sac above the annular ligament, and a drainage tube is introduced, and pushed beneath the ligament into the palm. In a simple teno-synovitis it is not necessary to make an opening into the palm as well. Of course an operation of this kind must be con- ducted with careful antiseptic precautions; unless this can be done, drainage should not be adopted, for, as has been said, tendon sheaths are essentially liable to septic inflammation of an exceedingly dangerous character, leading not only to sloughing of the tendon and abscesses along its sheath, but often to general septic poisoning. If, however, the surgeon be sure of his asepsis, drainage is by far the most satisfactory method of treatment. The question as to the length of time during which drainage should be employed is a little difficult to answer; it is necessary to be guided by the amount of discharge present. In most cases the tube may be removed in from ten to fourteen days, but, if the discharge be considerable, that is to say if there be several drops of fluid in the course of twenty- four hours and the dressing be stained over the area of a two-shilling piece or more, the drainage should be continued. As soon as the stain on the dressing does not exceed the size of the orifice of the drainage tube, and does not extend deeply through the layers of the dressing, it may be considered that the tube has done its work. While drainage is being carried out, the arm should be supported in a sling; a splint is not usually called for. It is of course necessary to put on a large dressing, which is applied not only around the forearm and wrist, but also made to fill up the whole hollow of the hand, so that by means of the dressing alone the limb is really kept quite at rest; if it then be carried in a sling there will not be enough movement to interfere with healing. The fingers must not, however, be confined for too long, and, whether drainage is being continued or not, they should be left free for active move- ments after ten days, and should be moved passively at intervals. If there be no adhesions the patient may move them himself, but if adhesions have formed they should be broken down by means of passive movement, which should be employed, if necessary under a general anaesthetic, every