INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 177 Preventive Medicine) 20 c.c. should be injected under the skin of the abdomen as a first dose; within the next twelve hours another 20 c.c. should be given, and then two or three further injections of 10 c.c. each should be made at intervals of twelve hours. The method of injecting these antitoxic serums is quite simple, the point of primary importance being to ensure that everything used is aseptic. A special syringe is sold for the purpose, consisting of a glass tube which can be unscrewed and in which works a piston made of metal and asbestos, so that it can be safely disinfected by heat. The syringe is boiled for at least a quarter of an hour and then rinsed out with a 1-20 carbolic acid solution, and the skin at the proposed seat of injection is also thoroughly scrubbed with the same solution. After the injection has been made, the syringe should be washed out with water, boiled, and subsequently allowed to lie in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution until it is again required. CHRONIC LYMPHANGITIS occurs in the course of various other diseases, the lymphatic vessels being the principal channels by which infection enters the body. In simple lymphangitis the cause of irritation is not of a suppurative character, as in want of cleanliness about the genital organs. Lymphangitis may occur in gonorrhcea when it is supposed to be due to the gonococcus, but in this form there are none of the symptoms char- acteristic of the acute form of the disease. In soft chancres, lymphangitis sometimes though rarely occurs. It commences about the eighth day, and is characterized by red lines along the dorsum of the penis and the presence of a hard knotted cord, accompanied by oedema of the prepuce; an abscess may form in the course of the lymphatic vessels, and may lead to an obstinate ulcer with inoculable pus. Again, in syphilis we may have affections of the lymphatic vessels in any of the three stages. In the primary stage it occurs in a considerable proportion of cases; the lymphatic vessels of the dorsum of the penis may be felt as indurated moniliform cords without any pain or redness of the skin. In secondary syphilis thickened lymphatics may be found in various parts of the body, and they may also be met with in the tertiary stage. In tuberculosis also there is a tuberculous lymphangitis, in which the vessels leading from the tuberculous lesion, especially if in the skin, are thickened and nodular, and these nodules may develop into scrofulous gummata (see p. 157). This condition may also extend to the thoracic duct, and it then leads to general tuberculosis. Chronic lymphangitis plays an important part in the development of elephantiasis, chronic oedema of the limbs, etc. Treatment.—The treatment of all these conditions is essentially that of the primary disease that induces them; in syphilis, the only treatment necessary is to administer remedies appropriate to the syphilis itself; in the gonorrhceal or chancrous form, fomentations may be used, and the condition treated on the lines of acute inflammation, but the main con- sideration is the treatment of the primary disease. The treatment of PT. II. M