336 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. will be found the sterno-thyroid muscle at the inner side, and the internal jugular vein towards the outer (see Fig. iii). In dividing this fascia, great care must be taken not to puncture the internal jugular vein, which is very large, and which lies immediately underneath it; hence, the division of the fascia and muscle should only be carried out during inspiration, when the vein is not so full. The latter is pulled to the outer side, whilst the sterno-thyroid is retracted towards the middle line, and then the first part of the artery can readily be seen and cleared, and a double ligature of floss silk or stout catgut passed around it; the coats should not be divided. The vessel should if possible be tied on the proximal side of the thyroid axis, and that vessel should also be ligatured. ANEURYSM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This may be either spontaneous or traumatic; the latter variety is some- times met with in connection with dislocation of the shoulder joint. It may occur at any part of the vessel; generally it is either in the first or the third part. Treatment.—For axillary aneurysm affecting the first part of the vessel, the best treatment is ligature of the first part of the subclavian. When it affects the third part of the vessel the sac enlarges downwards into the loose cellular tissue of the axilla and only rarely extends upwards towards the clavicle, so that the third part of the subclavian can then be ligatured without any real risk of rupturing the aneurysm. Ligature of the third part of the subclavian has already been described (see p. 322), but it is usually much more difficult of performance under these circumstances than when it is tied for aneurysm of the innominate, because if the axillary aneurysm be large the shoulder is pushed up, and there may be great difficulty in exposing the artery; indeed, in some cases it may be absolutely necessary to divide the clavicle and to pull the two ends aside in order to get at the artery as it crosses the first rib. If this has to be done the two fragments of the clavicle should, of course, be wired together after the ligature has been applied. If an aneurysm of the third part of the axillary has resulted from injury, or has become diffuse, it may be advisable to perform the old operation of opening the sac, turning out the clots, and tying the vessel above and below. To do this an incision should be first made into the lower part of the posterior triangle so as to expose the subclavian artery (see p. 322) and to enable the assistant to compress it against the first rib either with the finger or by means of an instrument called a key. This is a J.-shaped piece of wood, the cross piece being short, and covered with india-rubber; this is the part which compresses the vessel against the first rib; before use it should, of course, be disinfected by boiling. After the subclavian has been controlled, an incision is made along the line of the axillary artery (which is from the centre of the clavicle to the junction of