8l THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. as far as the middle of the thigh. The splint, which is padded with boracic lint, is then applied to the sole of the foot and, in order to prevent it slipping backwards, a broad piece of strapping is carried sandal- wise around its posterior end and over the instep, whilst the rest of the foot is firmly fixed to the splint by a suitable bandage. The foot can then easily be got into a flexed and everted position by traction upon the free ends of the two pieces of strapping. The ends of these are pulled taut on the front and outer sides of the thigh respectively, and a bandage is firmly applied around the limb outside them. The redun- dant ends of the strapping are turned down over the upper edge of the bandage, and covered in by a few turns carried from above downwards over them. Thus the strapping, the thigh and the bandage are all firmly fixed together, and the foot retained in the corrected position. A plaster of Paris bandage is then applied to the foot and leg, and when this has properly set, the strapping may be cut through above and below the casing, and it and the bandage around the thigh removed; the foot is thus kept in position whilst the plaster of Paris is applied, without the necessity of holding it by the hand. Each time the plaster is removed and renewed the leg should be thoroughly rubbed and the galvanic current applied to the muscles. When the child is old enough to walk it is better to substitute some form of apparatus for the plaster of Paris, and in poor patients, of whom we are at present speaking, probably the most suitable arrangement is the Sayre's apparatus, just described, without the plaster of Paris. The child walking on the flat piece of wood tends to evert the foot more and more, whilst the extra length of the splint fully corrects the equinus. The chief objection to the apparatus is that the strapping very soon slips, but this can easily be rectified by continuing the bandage below the knee so as to bring the strips of strapping in contact with the leg, and so to tighten the apparatus. In any case, however, it requires renewal every week. (2) In the second g:roup of cases there are one or more tight structures which oppose the reposition of the foot, and these must be divided before any other treatment can be adopted. In the earlier stages these structures are essentially tendons, fascia, or ligaments. The tendons chiefly affected are the tendo Achillis and those of the tibiales muscles. The fascia is the plantar fascia, whilst the ligaments are those around the astragalo-scaphoid joint, and also in some cases the anterior part of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Although all these structures may require division before the foot can be got into proper position, it is advisable to carry out the rectification in two stages; in the first place, the various structures which prevent the reduction of the adduction and inversion of the foot should be divided, whilst the equinus is left uncorrected for a time ; afterwards, when these deformities have been satisfactorily overcome, division of the tendo Achillis may be undertaken. This is a matter of great importance, because PT. II. K