TRUE ANEURYSM. 309 accidents so much as to a mechanical rupture of the vessel wall, and special precautions must be taken to avoid it. These have already been outlined in speaking of the method of application of the ligature (see p. 305), and will be referred to again in dealing with ligature of the individual vessels. Gangrene.—The chances of gangrene after ligature of an artery in its continuity depend upon the rapidity with which the collateral circula- tion is developed; this in its turn is influenced by two points. The first is whether the collateral circulation has been established before the ligature is applied: the second is whether it is possible for collateral circulation to be properly established; it may fail from the presence of a diseased con- dition of the smaller arteries which prevents their proper dilatation or from some pressure which is exerted upon the collateral vessels as they arise from the main trunk or from pressure from oedema, etc., of the limb, which offers a physical obstacle to the circulation. Bearing this in mind, the Hunterian operation is not the best in those cases in which the aneurysm is very large, where there is extensive disease of the arteries or where the aneurysm has become diffuse. Under these circumstances, and especially in the latter case, the clot may seriously interfere with the secondary circulation, and therefore the old operation of opening the sac, clearing out the clots, tying the vessel above and below, and extirpating the sac itself is less likely to lead to gangrene than is the Hunterian operation. In the old operation the clots which are infiltrating the tissues when the aneurysm has become diffuse can be removed at the same time. Anel's Operation.—Upon the question of applying the ligature in the immediate vicinity of the aneurysm or at some distance from it, our views have lately undergone considerable alteration. It is now found that the opinion formerly held as to the diseased condition of the artery in the neighbourhood of the sac was not absolutely correct, and in a large number of cases the artery is quite as healthy close to the aneurysmal sac as it is at some distance from it; moreover, the risk of secondary hfemorrhage and suppuration in the sac is now known to be the result of sepsis and not of the irritation of the ligature. Hence the exact point at which the ligature should be applied depends more upon the anatomy of the part (particularly of the branches arising from the artery), and on the size and condition of the aneurysm, than on any other consideration; we now apply the ligature at the point which will interfere least with the blood-supply to the parts below. The rules formerly laid down as to avoiding ligature of an artery in the immediate vicinity of a collateral branch, and the exact position at which it should be applied from the aneurysm, are also of very little consequence. Formerly it was found that when a ligature was applied in the immediate neighbourhood of a branch the clot in the interior of the ves.sel did not extend further up than that branch, and consequently if the latter were too close to the ligature, the amount of clot available for