22 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. and is strongly advocated by some; we cannot recommend it at all. Removal of the head of the first metatarsal very considerably impairs the walking power of the foot, and, in view of the satisfactory results obtained by the procedures already described, we are inclined to think that such an operation is entirely unnecessary. (3) The surgeon is sometimes called upon to treat a bunion in which, suppuration has occurred. These cases should be first of all treated upon the general principles applying to suppurative bursitis (see Chap. XIV.). The cavity should be laid freely open and drained, and dressings suitable to the degree and character of the inflammation, such as cyanide gauze or warm boracic fomentations, etc., should be applied. It is out of the question to adopt any of the operative procedures just described for the radical cure of the bunion, until the wound has been soundly healed for some weeks; its cure should then be undertaken upon the lines already laid down. HALLUX FLEXUS—HALLUX RIGIDUS. In this condition the great toe is somewhat bent downwards towards the plantar surface, and any attempt to extend it gives rise to considerable pain. The result is that the patient cannot walk with the foot in the normal position owing to the necessity of avoiding movement of the toe; generally he walks upon the inner border of the foot, which is kept in the abducted position. The deformity is essentially associated with flat foot, and indeed in many cases it appears to be the direct result of it. The condition of hallux rigidus is described as existing alone; un- doubtedly cases are met with in which the great toe is painful and stiff but not flexed. The condition of flexion will however invariably develop later if the affection be left untreated. Hence we shall describe the treatment of the two affections under one head. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this affection is mainly that of flat foot. The use of a Whitman's sprmg combined with the various exercises recommended in the treatment of flat foot (see p. 38) will often, especially in the earlier cases, cause the patient to lose his pain very rapidly; the stiffness of the joint then rapidly disappears, and loco- motion is no longer painful. In the more severe cases, however, it may be necessary to combine with the treatment of the flat foot, division of the lateral ligajnents of the joint and possibly also of the plantar fascia. Moreover, in neglected cases of very long standing marked alterations take place in the joint and the ligaments, so that, although the flat foot may be remedied, no real improvement is effected in the toe, which remains stiff and painful. These cases therefore call for some more radical operation for their cure, and this may take the form either of removal of the base of the first phalanx or of the head of the metatarsal bone, the aim of the operation being to allow the joint to be brought straight by removing one of the articular surfaces which enter into it.