281 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. extension of the disease; therefore the period for which the patient is kept in bed must be reckoned from the appearance of the last extension of this kind and not from the first onset of the disease. Hence, it is not uncommonly necessary in cases of inflamed varicose veins to keep a patient at rest for six weeks or longer. Apart from the risk of detachment of the clot, it is commonly found that, if the patient be allowed to get up too soon, the result is immediate extension of the phlebitis, and the only effect of attempting to hasten matters is thus to cause very considerable delay. In phlebitis occurring in varicose veins the process may often be cut short by tying the vein well above the thrombosed area and then excising the thrombosed portion; this is the best treatment to adopt under the circumstances. Gouty Phlebitis.—When there is any gouty tendency, the appropriate constitutional treatment for gout must be adopted. A very good local application to inflamed and thrombosed veins is that recommended by Dr. Burney Yeo for inflamed gouty joints, viz. a lotion containing half an ounce of bi carbonate of soda (in crystals) and two drachms of laudanum to ten ounces of water. A portion of this should be mixed with an equal quantity of hot water, and pieces of lint or soft linen thoroughly wetted with it should be freely applied to the affected part and some of the hot lotion poured over the dressing, which should then be covered with oiled silk over- lapping it in all directions, and enveloped in cotton wool. If the phlebitis be associated with an acute attack of gout, it is a good plan to combine the administration of colchicum with a saline aperient, such as sulphate of magnesia. Dr. Burney Yeo gives the following useful formula : ^. Magnesii sulphatis, oz. Magnesise levis, 2 drachms. Potassii citratis, - - - - - - 4 Tinct. sem. colchici, - - - - - - 2 ,, Aq. carui, ad 8 oz. M. ft. mist. Two tablespoonfuls, with two of hot water, every three hours until the bowels have been freely relieved. The sulphate of magnesia may be omitted after the bowels have been well relieved, and when the pain has to a great extent subsided the mixture may be taken thrice daily, but it is well to give each morning a dose of the original mixture to ensure the proper evacuation of the bowels. The same authority gives the following formula for use when there is reason to avoid the use of colchicum and when no aperient action is called for: ^. Sodii salicylatis, 2 drachms. Lithii salicylatis, 40 grains. Potassii citratis, 4 drachms. Tinct. zingib., 20 minims. Aq. cinnam., ad 8 oz. M. ft. mist. Two tablespoonfuls every two or three hours until the pain is relieved, then •every five or six hours.