TUBERCULOSIS. the bursa is left, and that, therefore, the skin might be presumed to move more freely over the subjacent bone. As a matter of fact, however, this is a purely fallacious reason, since the point aimed at in incision and drainage is to obtain complete obliteration of the bursal cavity, so that the bursa is removed as effectually as if it were excised ; in the latter case {i.e. complete excision) it is found by experience that patients never complain of any adhesion of the skin due to loss of the bursa. Hence we recommend in these cases—(i) the performance of excision of the enlarged bursa; (2) should the patient refuse excision draitiage may be employed; and (3) only where this is refused, or the surgeon is not sufficiently sure of his asepsis, should injection, etc. be practised. TUBERCULOSIS. This is not very uncommon, and the disease runs the ordinary course of tuberculosis elsewhere. The wall of the bursa becomes thickened, and effusion occurs into its cavity. The fluid very often contains rice bodies., and subse- quently pus is developed, which gradually finds its way to the surface. These bursse may or may not be connected with and secondary to disease of the joint; those most commonly affected are the bursae over the great trochanter, and that beneath the deltoid muscle. TREATMENT.—The treatment is essen- tially that of chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 247). If possible, the affected bursa and its contents should be dissected out, and where this cannot be done the wall should be clipped away as far as possible, after the cavity has been laid freely open, and then, if any portion has to be left behind, its surface should be thoroughly scraped and sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. Where the entire bursal wall is not easily accessible, for example in the psoas bursa, the pus should be evacuated, the walls scraped, the cavity injected with a 10% emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see p. 184), and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. In the case of the bursa over the great trochanter of the femur, an incision should be made with the convexity forwards, and a flap turned back so as to completely expose the swelling. The bursal wall is then ex- posed and peeled off carefully from the surrounding tissues, and the whole structure removed, the surface of the bone being carefully examined for evidence of tuberculous infection; if any deposit of Fig. 71.—Incision for removal of A DEi.TOm Bursa. This should corre- spond mainly to the anterior edge of the deltoid muscle, and should curve round well on to the outer aspect of the arm at its lower end.