FEMORAL ANEURYSM. 353 -cumstances that altliough inilsation returns in the vessels when the pressure is first relaxed, coagulation still continues in the sac, and the aneurysm may be cured without any second compression being required; should this not happen, however, and should the patient be able to bear it, the compression may be resumed the following day for four or five hours. It is well to keep the patient fully under the influence of morphine by repeated hypodermic injections so as to diminish the pain which accompanies the treatment and which is often very severe; this must not be used, however, when there is renal disease. If, in spite of morphine, the pain becomes intolerable, ligature had better be employed. It has been suggested that •chloroform should be administered in place of morphine, but if this is to be done the chief objection to operation is done away with, and it is then much better to tie the artery. Instrumental Compression.—When it is deemed advisable to employ •compression and a relay of assistants cannot be obtained, the pressure A Fig. 129.—Tourniquets for Comfression of the Femoral Artery. A, Carte's, for use in the thigh. B, SignorinCs, for use at the groin. may be applied by a suitable tourniquet. For this purpose Carte's or Signorims (see Fig. 129) is the best. Before the instrument is applied the same preliminary measures should be adopted as in the case of digital •compression: namely, the limb should be shaved, disinfected, dusted over with a drying powder, and a piece of lint applied over the point of com- pression. It is also well to get the patient fully under the influence of morphine. When instrumental compression is employed great care must be exercised, because it is easy to use more force than is absolutely necessary without the surgeon being aware of it, and thus very serious damage may be inflicted upon the vessel. In order to avoid this as much as possible it is best, wherever suflicient space is obtainable, to employ two tourniquets; in the example before us, one may be used to •compress the vessel at the groin and the other in the upper part PT. II. z.