105 GENU VALGUM. softening of the bones, and as, in the great majority of cases, this is rickets, the general treatment is essentially that of this affection; this has already been referred to more fully in speaking of bow legs (see p. 94), and we need not return to the subject here. Local Treatment.—This will depend primarily on the degree of the deformity. Up to a certain point, divergence of the legs is a condition that may be comparatively easily remedied by manipulations or apparatus. When it gets beyond that point operative interference will be necessary. It is essential first of all to estimate the amount of deformity present, and this is best done by putting the patient flat upon the back upon a table (not a yielding bed), and bringing the femora parallel with one another with the patellse looking directly upwards, and the internal condyles separated by about half an inch. The distance between the internal malleoli is then measured, and those cases are reckoned as mild ones which can probably be put right by manipulations, etc., in which the distance between these two points is not greater than three, or, at the very outside, four inches. When the separation is greater the case may be reckoned as bad, and when it reaches as much as six inches and upwards it is almost certain that operative interference will be required before the deformity can be remedied. In these bad cases it will also be noted that the patella is very frequently displaced outwards, and no longer lies in the inter-condyloid notch. (i) Cases in which the separation between the malleoli does not exceed an inch and a half. Here there is every probability that the limbs will become straight without any special local treatment, if the child merely be kept from walking, and if proper attention be paid to the general treatment. It is, however, often necessary, in deference to the wishes of friends, to employ some local treatment which may possibly do a certain amount of good, and which should take the form of matiipiilatiotis and massage. The limb should be rubbed and massaged twice or thrice daily, and, during the process, the mother or the nurse should fix the thigh, and keep the knee extended with the patella directed forwards, and should then gently and gradually press the leg and foot inwards, and hold it in this position for a few minutes at a time. If this be carefully done, and the child entirely prevented from walking meanwhile, the deformity is most likely to disappear completely without any further treatment, but the restriction as to walking must not be removed until the active period of rickets has passed, until in fact the child is from five to six years old. It is often, however, a matter of extreme difficulty to prevent children from walking or crawling about, and in some cases, doubtless, the general health may even suffer from the constant confinement to the recumbent position. Under these circumstances the rule may be relaxed to the following extent. The child may be allowed to go out into the sunshine and run about in the fresh air, but all walking or crawling about the house is absolutely pro- hibited. As soon as he comes indoors he should be made to lie down