SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 282 If the gout be of the chronic form, the following formula given by Whitla is useful: Potassii iodidi, 2 drachms. Potassii bicarbonatis, - 6 „ Vini colchici, - 2 Aq. camphorte, - - - - - - ad 12 oz. M. ft. mist. A tablespoonful three times a day in a wineglassful of water after meals. The diet of these patients will require careful attention. Fat, starch,, and sugar should be reduced to a minimum, and all meals should be light, simple, and easily digestible. For fuller details upon this complex subject, and also for information regarding the question of alcoholic liquors, we would refer the reader to some special treatise on the subject; he may with advantage consult the section on Gout in Dr. Burney Yeo's Manual of Medical Treatment} Rheumatic Phlebitis.—Should the phlebitis occur as a complication or sequela of acute rheumatism, or in a person of a very pronounced rheumatic tendency, the combined administration of salicylate of soda and iodide of potassium, as in the subjoined formula, will be useful: Potass, iodidi, - - 2 drachms. Sodii saHcylatis, - - - - - - - I ,, Syrupi simp., - - - - - - - l oz. Aq. menth. pip., - - - - - ad 6 ,, M. ft. mist. A tablespoonful thrice daily. In the very chronic forms the following prescription recommended by Whitla is useful and pleasant to take : Sodii iodidi, 2 drachms. Sodii bicarb., - - - - - - - 4 ,, Potassii bicarb., - - - - - - - I oz. Liq. arsenicalis, - - - - - - - drachms. Dec. sarsK comp. - - - - - ad 20 oz. M. ft. mist. A small tablespoonful in a claretglassful of effervescing potash water three times a day after meals. Post-typhoid Phlebitis, etc.—In cases occurring after typhoid fever or debilitating illnesses, the administration of tonics, especially iron and arsenic, are advisable; after the acute inflammation has subsided, change of air is beneficial. When the affection is sub-acute, as for instance in gonon-hoeal rheumatism, of which phlebitis is a not uncommon complication^ salicylate of soda, quinine, and iron are often of great value. The patient, who is generally in a very feeble condition, requires judicious feeding, and the state of the bowels should be attended to, saline purges being given as often as may be necessary, especially at the commencement of the illness. The general condition must of course be carefully watched; should repeated rigors occur, the septic character of the phlebitis becomes apparent^ and the treatment appropriate to it should be adopted {vide supra'). ^ Cassell & Company, London, 1893.