228 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. is reached. Where, however, the slitting-up of the sheath would be likely to involve danger to important structures, an alternative procedure that answers equally well may be employed. A second incision is made over the tendon, well above the wound, and the sheath opened; from this incision the tendon is pushed down until its divided end appears in the original wound. In one or other of these ways it is generally possible to get hold of the two ends, which, in a recent wound, may be brought into apposition without any undue tension by relaxing the parts (in the example before us, by fully flexing the fingers, the wrist, and the elbow). The next point is to see that the divided ends are clean cut; if they be ragged, a clean section should be made with a sharp knife through each of them. The ends are then stitched together. If an ordinary interrupted suture be passed between the ends, the thread (as in the case of muscles) simply separates the fibres of the tendon as it is tightened and cuts its way out directly. The best plan is to pass the needle across from front to back through the whole thickness of the tendon quite to one edge of it and close to the line of division, and then to tie the thread over the small piece of tendon included in the loop (see Fig. 79. A). Although the piece of tendon below the ligature may possibly die, a secure hold is thus obtained, which may be pulled upon firmly without fear of the thread cutting its way out. The same procedure should be adopted also on the opposite side of the tendon, and both the upper and lower ends should be prepared in this way, care being taken that the stitches are inserted at exactly corresponding points in the two ends, so that the tendon is not twisted when they are tied together. The ends of the corresponding threads on either side of the division are then tied together sufficiently closely to bring the two cut surfaces into apposition (see Fig. 79. B). It is well in addition to put in one or two stitches in the centre to reinforce the lateral ones; these will prevent the cut surfaces from becoming displaced laterally or curled up, and as they do not bear any strain they may be inserted in the ordinary manner. The best material for uniting tendons is fine fishing gut. This should not be the ordinary salmon gut, which is used for stitching the skin, but specially fine threads which are prepared by some instrument makers for stitching up wounds in the coats of the intestine. It is better, however, to use the finest chromic catgut for the centre stitches, as it is naturally desirable that they should be absorbed after a time. When several tendons are divided in the same wound it is necessary to make sure that the two divided ends belong to the same muscle Fig. 79.—Tendon Siituke. In A are shown the stout lateral stitches upon which the strain is thrown. In A' the cut ends are approximated by tying the lateral stitches, and in addition, the finer coap- tation stitches are put in.