TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. 203 put upon the stretch until, after a week or ten days, it is fully extended. After a fortnight the splint should be left off, and the patient allowed to move the limb to a limited extent. The movement at this time may be safely left to the patient himself as he is sure not to do too much. This movement, however slight, is of advantage in preventing any firm adhesions between the divided ends of the muscles and the surrounding tissues. In about five weeks the limb may be used actively, and by that time massage and passive movements may also be employed. The above description apphes more particularly to a rupture of the quadriceps femoris muscle, but it is equally applicable to a rupture of any other muscle. In cases of rupture of a muscle of the upper extremity, such as the biceps, it is of course unnecessary to confine the patient to bed for any length of time. {b) Non-operative.—Thx?, will be the line of treatment to follow when the patient himself objects to operation, when the muscle is only partially ruptured, or is small and unim- portant, when the rupture is only one of several serious injuries, or when the surgeon does not deem it advisable to operate, either because he is afraid of suppuration or be- cause he thinks the patient too old or too feeble. With regard to the last point, however, the operation is not as a rule accompanied by shock, and it is seldom that this would form in itself a sufficient reason for refusing operative treatment. In rupture of degenerated muscles, as after typhoid and other infective diseases, opera- tion is not expedient, because the patient is not in a condition for operation, and also because the de- generated muscles would not unite satisfactorily. The non-operative treatment consists in putting the part at rest, and fixing the joint in such a position that the muscles are relaxed as com- pletely as possible, so as to allow the torn muscular fibres to come close together. For example, in the case of a rupture of the pla?itaris, the knee is flexed and the heel is drawn up and fastened to the thigh; this is usually done by means of a slipper which has an elastic band attached to the heel and fastened to a band around the middle of the thigh (see Fig. 73). This apparatus must be worn night and day for three or four weeks, in order to allow the union which is taking place to be- come fairly firm before it is subjected to stretching. Later on massage or electricity may be employed if there be any signs of adhesions. Fig. 73.—Apparatus for use after Rupture OF THE Plantaris.—This is sufficiently clear from the figure. Should the thigh-band tend to slip, as it often will from wasting of the muscles, it may be kept in position by fastening it to a band round the waist.