356 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. those of the adductor longus run directly downwards, or downwards and slightly outwards. The sartorius should be drawn outwards with a retractor, and should the adductor longus be at all prominent it should be drawn to the inner side (see Fig. 131). The fascia over the femoral artery is then divided, the sheath opened, the vessel cleared, and the artery ligatured, the needle being passed from the inner side. No drainage tube is required, and the limb is treated in a similar manner to that after ligature of the common trunk. The artery usually lies somewhat in front of the vein, with the long saphenous nerve on its outer side. After-effects.—The first subjective result of ligature of either of these vessels is a feeling of coldness with considerable pain and painful cramp in the lower extremity. These sensations usually pass off during the first twenty-four hours, and are due to deficiency in the circulation of the limb; sometimes also there is pain about the seat of the aneurysm as a result of its distension by clot when coagulation takes place. Should this pain be excessive, there is no objection to the administration of full doses of morphine unless there should be other features in the case which specially contra-indicate the use of the drug. After the lapse of twenty-four hours the toes should be examined to see whether the cir- culation is maintained or not. As a rule the toes will be warm and of good colour by that time. The simplest way to ascertain whether the circulation is maintained is by pressing upon the point of the nail and forcing the blood out of the matrix; on relieving the pressure the blood ought to flow back again immediately, and should it be slow in doing so it is a sign that the circulation is much impaired. Should impairment of the collateral circulation last for forty-eight hours, it is highly probable that gangrene has occurred, and as soon as this happens there is no object in waiting for a line of demarcation; the surgeon knows where the obstruction is, and also knows that amputation must be performed within the area of distribution of the branches of the profunda femoris and their anastomoses, that is to say, at the knee joint. When gangrene does not take place, the consolidation and shrinking of the aneurysm go on rapidly. Consolidation is usually accompanied by a good deal of pain radiating from the seat of the aneurysm down the leg; this may continue for months, or until the aneurysm has completely disappeared. In any case the patient should be kept in bed for from four to six weeks after the operation, so as to allow a certain amount of consolidation of the clot to take place, and it is well to restrict the movements of the knee afterwards until such time as the aneurysm has almost disappeared. With this object the patient should go about upon crutches, and the knee should be fitted with a suitable casing which may be prolonged upwards so as to protect the aneurysm from contusion. This fixation of the knee joint is more especially important in cases of popliteal aneurysm. Complications.— Should the surgeon happen to puncture the vein during