SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. 2IO The localized form may be seen in the neighbourhood of fractures, where spicules of bone radiate from the fracture into the muscles which are attached in its neighbourhood; the ossification usually commences in the tendons and extends thence into the muscle. A similar condition also occurs around joints which are the seat of rheumatoid arthritis. Apart from these conditions, however, ossification is sometimes met with in the bellies of muscles. The most common seat is in the adductors of the thigh, more especially the adductor longus, and the name given to this condition is "rider's bone." Here ossification occurs in the substance of the muscle, and may extend through it from end to end, rendering it entirely rigid, and, of course, interfering very considerably with the move- ment of the limb. Among other muscles which may be affected are the deltoid or the biceps cubiti in soldiers as a result of musketry drill. The pathology of the condition is not clear. Some look on it as due at first to a hsematoma in the muscle, followed by partial absorption of the blood, and a deposit of calcareous salts in the remainder, but in many cases true bone is actually formed. Treatment.—When the condition is limited to a single muscle, the treatment clearly is to excise the new bone formed in it. There is no other possible method of getting rid of the trouble or of arresting its progress, and the loss of the rigid muscle does not make the patient any worse off; on the contrary, its removal allows the others to act freely once more. When the entire muscle is not involved, it is only necessary to remove the ossified portion; if sufficient healthy muscle be left the divided ends may be reunited. The generalized form of ossifying myositis is fortunately not very common; it usually begins in children, especially in males. It is probably a form of neurosis resembling pseudo-hypertrophic muscular paralysis, and it probably affects the connective tissue of the muscle. It generally begins in the muscles about the spine. Whether or not the affection is a true inflammation is a matter of great doubt. For the present, however, it is more convenient to refer to it here. Treatment.—Unfortunately there is nothing known that will arrest the condition. Iodide of potassium is given in 5-10-grain doses three times a day, but it is practically useless; the condition progresses in spite of treatment, affecting whole groups of muscles, and ultimately, it may be, the entire muscular system, so that the patient finally dies from exhaus- tion or from difficulty in breathing, repeated bronchitis, and broncho- pneumonia. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis of muscles is usually secondary to tuberculosis in the vicinity: for example, tuberculous ulcers on the tongue may lead to tuber- culous disease in its muscles; tuberculous abscesses in the neck very often