CHAPTER XVI. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. ACUTE TENO-SYNOVITIS.—The most important diseases of the tendon sheaths are the various inflammatory conditions commonly grouped together under the name of teno-synovitis. As in the analogous case of the pleura, a suppurative and an acute non-suppurative teno-synovitis are met with. The acute non-suppurative form may be further subdivided into the dry and the serous forms. Some authors again divide the dry form into two groups, namely, the dry crepitating teno-synovitis, and the plastic teno-synovitis. Thus we shall describe: (i) dry crepitating teno- synovitis ; (2) plastic teno-synovitis; (3) acute serous teno-synovitis; and (4) suppurative teno-synovitis. (1) Dry crepitating teno-synovitis manifests itself chiefly by crepi- tation on manipulation. Pain on movement is complained of, but it is not usually very acute; there may also be a certain amount of pain on pressure, and some diminution in the freedom of the muscular movements. Sometimes there is slight swelling along the course of the tendon; often there is none. Whenever the muscles contract, a characteristic soft rub- bing sensation is felt, which is very similar to that experienced when two pieces of silk are rubbed one over the other; this crepitation commences on the second or third day of the affection. The condition may be symmetrical, which is more commonly the case when it affects the tendons on the back of the wrist. The disease usually runs a favourable course, disappearing spontaneously in from ten to fifteen days, but it is an affec- tion which is very prone to recur. Adhesion of the tendon to its sheath and consequent more or less imperfect movement may occur if suitable treatment be not adopted early. Causes.—The condition may result from extensive and repeated play of the tendon in its sheath, as, for example, in certain occupations. It is perhaps most common in washerwomen, in whom it occurs about the back of the wrist, the tendon sheaths chiefly affected being those of the