262 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. on emerging from it to have the limb vigorously massaged until the skin is thoroughly glowing. The limb is then wrapped up in flannel or cotton wool, and the patient rests either in bed or upon the sofa for some time. Various anodyne linaments may be useful when the pain is severe, and their use should always be resorted to in preference to the employment of morphine or cocaine as long as they are of any value in arresting the pain. The best of these are linimentum belladonna^ linimentum terebinth, aceticum, or the following liniment: !^ Menthol, .... one drachm. Liniment, camph. CO., - - half an ounce. Liniment, belladonnse, - - half an ounce. The employments of these liniments after a hot bath at night is valuable,, as the pain is apt to increase when the patient goes to bed. The constitutional treatment must be on the lines already mentioned, namely, the administration of tonics, of which quinine and strychnine, iron and arsenic are of the greatest value, whilst at the same time the patient must have plenty of fresh air, and be under good hygienic conditions; any constitutional condition which may have any bearing upon the affection should also receive appropriate medical treatment. Should these palliative measures fail to relieve the patient, and to arrest the neuritis, the question of operative interference will arise. Palliative measures should not be persisted in too long, and should be abandoned at once in favour of operative procedures, should the symptoms indicate that the neuritis is spreading in spite of careful treatment; in any event bad cases should be operated upon if no improvement takes place in six weeks or two months. The operative measures suitable for neuritis are— (i) nerve-stretching; (2) neurotomy; and (3) neurectomy. Nerve-stretching.—Nerve-stretching was first used by Nussbaum, about 25 years ago, and has since been much employed in cases of obstinate neuritis, more particularly in the form affecting the sciatic nerve (sciatica). The results of the operation vary very considerably, but in some cases the benefit is most marked. The precise manner in which the effect is produced,, however, is by no means clear, but in part the explanation may be that the new fibrous tissue which is forming in the nerve in consequence of the inflammation, and which exerts injurious pressure upon the nerve fibrils, is torn through by the stretching, and thus the pressure upon the nervous elements is relieved. Nerve-stretching also produces some alteration in the transmission of the nerve currents, and thus leads to temporary diminu- tion in the transmission of sensory impulses and considerable relief of the pain that is a constant accompaniment of the affection. In the majority of cases of bad neuritis the immediate effect of nerve-stretching properly performed is very marked indeed; the pain may disappear entirely, and is almost invariably much improved, while for a time at least the patient may be apparently well. In some cases this improvement is permanent and a.