INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 209 CHRONIC MYOSITIS is a very serious condition, because it leads to great impairment of the function of the muscle, and also because it is very difficult to arrest. It occurs in two forms—the sclerosing and the ossifying myositis. (a) Sclerosing myositis. In sclerosing myositis the muscles gradually become converted into fibrous tissue, which contracts and leads to permanent shortening; in some cases the entire muscle may not be affected, but still, if fibrous bands form in its course, movement must necessarily be materially interfered with. The condition may follow upon an acute suppurative or non-suppurative myositis; it also occurs in muscles around inflam- matory foci of long standing, such as suppurating joints, or where hydatid cysts, gummata, foreign bodies, etc., are present in the muscle. It is also supposed to occur as the result of rheumatism. It leads to shortening and to imperfect action of the muscles and to various deformities. Treatment.—In treating this affection it is necessary first of all to ascertain and remove if possible the cause of the disease, and secondly to attempt to arrest the inflammatory process and to prevent subsequent contraction. The general treatment is usually very difficult and ineffectual; when no definite local cause is found it should be directed against any rheumatic or gouty tendency that may possibly be present. The admin- istration of mercury is sometimes of service. The important point in the local treatment is to fix the part in such a position that the muscle is put as much upon the stretch as the patient can bear; counter-irritants should then be applied over the affected area. All possible steps should be taken, by means of splints, extension apparatus, etc., to prevent con- traction of the muscle during the progress of the case. This is a very difficult matter to accomplish, for, as the case goes on, the contraction leads to such pressure on the apparatus that it must occasionally be altered and thus the contraction is very apt to increase. After the inflammation has subsided, however, matters may be improved a good deal either by dividing the tense bands in the muscle itself, or by tenotomy. In order to divide the fibrous bands which run in the muscle, it is best to make a free incision down on to the latter in order to see the exact condition of affairs; if a large muscle be affected it is well to turn down a flap of suitable size. With a fine tenotomy knife everything is cut through that appears to be infiltrated or fibrous, and the healthy muscular bundles are left intact. The various incisions should be made at different levels. In many cases, however, it is better to divide the tendon instead of the muscle, because satisfactory union is more likely to take place in tendon than in the muscle. After the muscle or tendon has been divided, suitable appara- ratus is applied to retain the position and to guard against subsequent contraction. (b) Ossifying myositis.—The ossifying form of chronic myositis occurs either as an affection limited to one muscle or group of muscles, or as an ossification of the entire muscular system. PT. II. o