I86 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. symptoms. Local applications are on the whole best avoided. Iodine paint is very commonly employed, but it is doubtful whether it ever does any good at all, whilst certainly, when peri-adenitis is present, it seems to precipitate the suppuration. The various ointments commonly employed can only be regarded as placebos, and cannot be recommended. When the glands are situated in parts of the body subject to movement, as in the groin, rest must be enjoined, and, if necessary, the part may be fixed with splints and bandages. In some cases where the glands are large, and cause deformity, and are increasing in size and number, it is advisable to excise them, even though they are not actually breaking down. (2) Wlien peri-adenitis is present.—When the glands are becom- ing matted together into a large nodular mass, suppuration is very apt to occur in some portion of it; therefore, if after a comparatively short period devoted to a trial of change of air and general treatment, the condition persists or increases, much subsequent trouble and considerable unsightly scarring will be avoided, by proceeding without further delay to excise the glands. It is true that, under good hygienic conditions, a certain proportion of these cases recover perfectly without operative interference; but, in the large majority, suppuration will occur, and then the operation becomes very difficult. If, however, it be performed before an abscess of noticeable size is present, no skin need be taken away, and a delicate linear cicatrix is left which in process of time will become practically unnoticeable. The operation must be done very thoroughly; not only should all the enlarged glands be removed, but with them should also be taken all the smaller ones in the neighbourhood, even though they may not be visibly tuberculous. In order to get the most successful result, the whole of the fat and glands in the vicinity should be removed, as far as possible, in one mass. For example, in the case of the anterior triangle of the neck, all the fat and glands under the sterno-mastoid muscle and along the course of the jugular vein should be most carefully dissected out. Moreover, if the mass be adherent to the vein, it is best to ligature the latter above and below, and remove the adherent portion. The precise steps of the operation in these cases (especially for tuberculous glands in the neck) will be described when we come to deal with the regions in which they occur. (3) When there is an unopened abscess.—Provided that the abscess be of moderate size, and do not involve any extensive area of the skin, the best plan is still excision. Any skin that is thin or adherent to the glandular mass should be enclosed in an elliptical incision and removed, and the greatest care should be taken to avoid puncture of the abscess during the dissection. Free removal of the whole lymphatic area must also be practised as in the previous case. Partial excision, that is to say removal of those glands only which are visibly diseased, is very apt indeed to end in disappointment; there is almost always enlargement of other glands subsequently, and this is especially likely to be the case if