78 CLUB-FOOT. these cases should, therefore, in the first place consist of manipulations designed to prevent the contraction of the muscles, and also to stretch any structures which are unduly tight; besides this, some form of retentive apparatus will be required to keep the foot in good position in the intervals between the manipulations. Both these measures tend to gradually restore the bones to their proper shape. Massage, and, in some cases, electricity should also be employed with the view of increasing the nutrition of the defective muscles. If the treatment be not begun at the earliest possible period, operative measures must precede it, since tight structures will have to be divided. Hence the treatment cannot be begun too soon; it should be commenced immediately the condition is noticed, which is usually within a very few days after birth. (a) Manipulations.—The necessary manipulations are quite simple, but they should be carried out regularly and frequently and persevered with for a long time. They consist essentially in abduction and eversion of the foot at the medio-tarsal joint, and flexion of the foot upon the leg. It is of the greatest importance that these manipulations should be carried out quite gently, so as not to frighten the child or to produce pain; if pain be caused, spasm of the muscles on the inner side of the leg and foot is set up, and this offers an obstacle to the manipulations, so that the condition will be aggravated rather than improved. If, on the other hand, the manipulations be carried out gently and in a coaxing manner, the child becomes accustomed to them, does not resent them, and no spasm of the muscles occurs. The front part of the foot should be grasped with the right hand while the leg is steadied with the left which embraces it just above the ankle joint. The metatarsus is then gradually carried outwards, until the inner border of the foot is quite straight. The right hand should next be slipped up a little more towards the heel, so as to grasp the whole foot, the toes lying between the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The entire foot is then gradually and steadily everted until the sole looks rather outwards, and while eversion is maintained the foot is gradually flexed at the ankle joint. The essential points in this procedure are firstly the unfolding of the anterior part of the foot, secondly, the overcoming of the inversion of the foot as a whole, and thirdly, the flexion of the foot at the ankle joint. It is of extreme importance to remember that it is not enough to produce eversion of the anterior half of the foot alone—that part, 'namely, in front of the mid-tarsal joint. This is a point often overlooked, not only in these early cases, but in those of every description, and the result is that after prolonged treatment, while the equinus and the faulty position of the front half of the foot have been overcome, the under surface of the os calcis looks inwards instead of directly downwards. It is of the utmost importance, therefore, that when the foot is everted the os calcis as well as the anterior part of the foot should be everted too.