THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. condition than before operation, or than could be obtained by any form of tarsectomy. 27/1? osteo-plastic operations practised for the cure of club-foot are very numerous, but for all practical purposes they may be divided into two groups. In the first are those in which one or more of the tarsal bones are excised, and in the second are the operations involving the removal of wedge-shaped portions of the tarsus without any regard to the articulations of the portion removed. The operations included in the first group are numerous. Various tarsal bones, more particularly the astragalus and the cuboid, have been removed, but the results do not appear to be particularly good; the removal of the astragalus does not seem to influence the varus part of the deformity to any extent, while, on the other hand^ it is of some value as a cure for the equinus. The removal of wedge-shaped portions of the tarsus without regard to the articulation of the portion removed is, on the other hand, a valuable method. The operation, which is generally spoken of as "cuneiform tar- sectomy," consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus at the transverse tarsal joint by means of a saw or chisel, the portion thus excised having its base directed outwards and slightly upwards, whilst its apex lies at the inner border of the sole. The amount of bone taken away will of course vary with the degree of deformity present, the object being to remove sufficient to permit the outer border of the foot to be shortened to the degree requisite to bring the concave inner border into its proper line. The parts included in this excision generally comprise portions of the os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, and scaphoid. Ctmeiform tarsectomy is performed as follows. The limb is thoroughly purified and steadied upon a sandbag, and the surgeon commences by dividing with a tenotomy knife all the shortened tendons, fascia and ligaments that can be reached on the inner side of the foot. This is similar to Parker's operation of syndesmotomy already described (see p. 84). It is important that this should be done before proceeding to divide bone, as otherwise an unnecessarily large amount of the tarsus will have to be removed in order to get the foot into proper position. One of the most important features in this preliminary procedure is the free division of the front part of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, which will allow the os calcis to be pressed outwards towards its normal position, for in these bad cases the patient generally walks upon the outer side of the os calcis as well as upon the outer aspect of the dorsum of the foot. It is also advantageous to amplify the freedom of movement obtained after tenotomy by the use of Thomas's wrench (see p. 84). After all the tight structures on the inner side of the foot have thus been relaxed to their utmost extent, the surgeon makes an incision along the outer border of the foot commencing a,t the base of the fifth metatarsal and terminating just in front of and about an inch above the