HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. 19 instmments are not likely to do much good when the affection has reached an advanced stage; they merely act as an additional impediment to locomotion, while the permanent enlargement of the bone, which is the chief cause of the trouble, cannot be diminished by anything short of operation. In addition to this also, the bursa over the joint will probably have undergone a series of attacks of inflammation and its walls will be permanently thickened, so that no palliative method is likely to give more than mere temporary relief. Various operative procedures have been employed, of which we shall describe two. The one which we prefer was described in the Illustrated Medical Journal, Vol. iii., 1889, page 271, and is performed as follows. After a very thorough disinfection of the part, an incision is made along the inner border of the dorsum of the toe, extending from just beyond the articular surface of the head of the metatarsal bone backwards to a point half an inch behind that at which the enlargement of the bone ceases. Fig. 16.—Bunion. Resection of the Enlarged Portion of the Head of the First Metatarsal. The operation is fully described in the text. The dotted line shows the skin incision, the continuous one that of the bone section. The great toe in the rectified position is represented in Fig. 14. The incision should be curved towards the sole at each end, but it should not be carried too far on to the plantar surface for fear of subsequent pain in the scar (see Fig. i6). The incision is carried down to the bone both at its anterior and posterior extremities, and a flap is then turned downwards so as to expose the whole of the enlarged end of the bone. While turning down the flap it is as well to take the oppor- tunity to dissect out the bursa; the periosteum should not be taken up with the flap. After the whole of the enlargement has been completely exposed, the thickened portion is removed by means of a chisel and hammer, the bone being divided from behind forwards, the line of the incision corresponding to that of the shaft of the metatarsal bone. The whole of the enlarged inner surface of the head of the metatarsal is removed, and with it a small portion of the articular surface is generally taken away. The operation upon the bone is completed by rounding off the upper and lower margins of the cut surface with a chisel so as to avoid sharp edges which might exert injurious pressure subsequently; the surface of the bone should be left absolutely smooth and without any sharp edge at all. This is a point of particular importance, as failure to properly observe it may lead not only to considerable pain afterwards,