300 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. When the vessels involved are the subclavian artery in its first part, or the lower part of. the common carotid, with their accompanying veins, it is in most cases advisable to leave matters alone. In the case of an arterio-venous aneurysm in these regions, the chances of rupture are com- paratively slight, and it will usually suffice to protect the parts from violence and to treat any symptoms of cardiac irregularity by suitable medicinal means. TRUE ANEURYSM. CAUSES.—By a true aneurysm is meant a sac communicating with the lumen of the vessel, the wall of the sac having in the first instance been formed by one or more of the arterial coats. We say "in the first instance," because when the aneurysm becomes very large the remains of the original coats of the artery are practically unrecognizable, and, as a matter of fact, the sac of the aneurysm is then formed solely of the condensed cellular tissue around. Before a true aneurysm can be pro- duced, some disease or injury must weaken the wall of the vessel at the spot where the dilatation is to occur; this generally takes the form of chronic end-arteritis or atheroma. When an atheromatous patch bursts into an artery the blood finds its way into the little ulcer thus formed, and, by its impact on the middle coat, leads to inflammation and loss of elasticity of the tunica media, and gradual expansion of the arterial wall. In other cases, the atheromatous process extends to the middle coat, weakens it, and causes dilatation of that part of the artery without any rupture of the internal coat; dilatation does not occur as a rule until the middle coat becomes weak. A similar weakening of the middle coat may result from contusions or sudden strains of the coats of the artery which cause rupture of some of the fibres of the middle coat and consequent loss of strength; as the result of the rupture cellular infiltration of the coat in the vicinity occurs, followed by the formation of cicatricial tissue and dilatation of the weakened part. In whichever way the damage be done, the weakened part of the wall gradually dilates, until ultimately there is a cavity communicating with the vessel by an orifice of variable size; this is known as a sacculated aneurysm. The lining membrane of this cavity loses its smooth healthy character, and the blood stream in it is more sluggish than in the vessel itself; the result is that a white clot forms on the wall, and as time goes on becomes more or less completely decolourized, firmly adherent to the wall, and in part organized. After a time the clot in the interior of the sac presents a laminated appearance; this often results from tearing up either of the connection between the original layer of clot and the sac wall or of the substance of the white clot by the blood current and simple coagulation of blood there. Thus an aneurysm which has existed for any