20 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. but also to a recurrence of the trouble. The internal lateral ligament is of course necessarily detached from its insertion into the metatarsal bone. After the removal of the bone it is well to introduce a tenotomy knife into the joint and to divide the external lateral ligament so as to properly remedy the abduction. In very bad cases also, where the deflection is extreme, it may sometimes be necessary to divide some of the tendons (more particularly the long extensor), but in the majority of cases this is not called for. After division of the ligaments the toe is forcibly brought inwards, and the deformity is somewhat over-corrected, that is to say, the great toe is brought into a position of slight adduction. In doing this it may be necessary to divide, by means of a tenotomy knife, any structures which are tight enough to resist the adduction of the toe. Care must be taken to see that the rotation of the phalanges upon the metatarsal bone, to which reference has already been made (see p. 15), is also care- fully corrected; in order to do this it is generally necessary to divide the outer part of the dorsal ligament. When the toe has been brought straight, an attempt should be made to shorten the internal lateral liga- ment so that it may form an obstacle to recurrence of the deformity. It is not very easy to do this accurately; the best plan is to pass two or three catgut stitches through the remains of the ligament, and fasten it back to the periosteum behind the point of section of the bone. The wound should then be stitched up without the use of a drainage tube, the usual cyanide dressings put on, and an internal wooden sphnt applied extending along the inner border of the foot from the heel to beyond the toe. The splint should be especially thickly padded immediately behind the area of operation. When the posterior part of the splint has been fastened to the heel and the instep, a considerable deflection inwards of the toe can be obtained by drawing it to the extremity of the splint by a separate bandage. The deformity will then be over-corrected, the toe being in a position of slight adduction and fully extended. After ten days the dressings are removed, the stitches taken out, and the toe carefully moved by the surgeon himself, who takes care to keep it in its proper position. Then, while the toe is held in a position of slight adduction and extension with the rotation corrected, a narrow boracic lint bandage is wound around it and carried up over the foot and instep, and bandages soaked in a solution of silicate of potash are applied outside this. After this it is well to re-apply the wooden splint already mentioned, and it should be kept on for two or three days, at the end of which time the silicate bandage will have firmly set. The wooden splint may then be taken off and the patient allowed to walk about with the foot in a gout- shoe. The bandage should be kept on for six weeks, when it will be found that the toe retains its position fairly well. Passive movements should next