132 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. until a more or less normal acetabulum is formed. The first essential for success is that the patient should be quite young; at the same time it is of primary importance that the child should be old enough to have learnt to walk. After the age of seven years the chances of bringing the head of the femur successfully down over the acetabulum without an open operation are very slight, because of the shortening of the muscles, ligaments, and soft tissues generally, and therefore, if non-operative treatment is to succeed, it must be employed before this age. In young children it is generally fairly easy to bring the head of the bone down into position without even dividing the capsule, but, when attempts are made to push it into the small cleft that represents the acetabulum, this is found to be a very difficult matter, partly because of the tension on the front part of the capsule, and partly because the flattened head of the femur is too large to be received into the cleft. If, however, the anterior part of the capsule be stretched or divided, it is not uncommon to find that the head of the bone will go into the rudimentary acetabulum, and, if the limb be then strongly abducted, the head hitches against the under side of the upper margin and remains in place. Directly, however, the limb is adducted, the head slips out at once and the deformity recurs. The following are the stages of the pro- cedure as described by Lorenz. First of all, the head must be brought down to the level of the acetabulum; this manoeuvre is called reduction. Secondly, the rudimentary acetabulum must be enlarged; this Lorenz calls the formation of an acetabulum. The next step is to implant the head of the bone in this enlarged cavity, termed reposition, and lastly, the joint thus artificially formed must be made sufficiently stable to enable the patient to walk without danger of the head of the bone slipping out of place. We shall here describe the treatment suitable for a case in which the dislocation is unilateral; although the steps of the treatment are the same both for the unilateral and bilateral forms, the former condition is much the more easy to treat because the patient possesses one sound limb on which to support himself at a later stage when walking is necessary. (i) The reduction of tlie head of the bone.—This is much more difficult of accomplishment without operation than where there is an open wound, because in the latter case the portions of the capsule opposing reduction can be readily divided and removed. Extension is useful in the first instance; although the head of the bone cannot be brought into position by it alone, it serves to stretch the tightened structures, and thus the necessary manipulations can be carried out afterwards with greater freedom. When the child is over four years old, preliminary extension may be em- ployed for two or three weeks in order to stretch the resistant structures, and the weights used for extending the limb should be as heavy as the patient can bear; it is well to begin with four or five pounds, which are afterwards added to. In many cases, however, more particularly in younger children, it is better to attempt reduction at one sitting in the following manner.