CLUB-FOOT. 70 half an inch to one side of the tendon, and at a similar distance above the proposed point of division, downwards, across the tendon, the lowest point being half an inch to an inch below the point of division, and then bringing it up to a point on the opposite side of the tendon correspond- ing to its starting point (see Fig. 33). The flap thus marked out is raised and hooked upwards so as to expose the tendon, the result of this being that the line of union of the flap will not correspond anywhere to the line of division of the tendon, and therefore there will be no risk of adhesion between the incision in the tendon and that in the skin. The actual method of shortening the tendon varies; there are two principal plans : (a) to divide the tendon obliquely, so as to have a broad surface for union, and to divide it in a "L-shaped manner. (a) Oblique section of the tendo Achillis.—The best way of carrying out the first plan, is to turn up a flap and expose the tendon in the manner just indicated, and then to divide the latter obliquely from above downwards ^ and forwards (see Fig. 34). This oblique incision through the tendon 2 3 Fig. 35.— L-Shaped Section for Lengthening Tendons. In A the tendon is seen exposed by raising a flap ; the dark line shows the incision in the tendon, the dotted ones indicating the amount of tendon removed after ihe latter has been thus divided. In B the tendon has been shortened and sewn together; the toes are a little depressed as in the preceding Fig. C shows diagrammatically the steps of the division of the tendon and the methods of suture. In (i) the line of incision in the tendon is c, a,l>,d', when the two ends are separated, incisions along the dotied lines n'd' and b' c' are made to cut otl the portions ac d b' and d! a! b d (shaded in the diagram). This gives the tendon the shape and length represented in (2). The divided ends are tlien brought together and sutured as in (3). It is important to remember in cutting off the portions of tendon that dd' must be equal in length to c (f. should be nearly two inches in length, and should commence close to, or even actually through, some of the muscular fibres. After the tendon has been divided in this manner, a sufficient portion of the lower part is removed by a second incision which is parallel to the first; the amount removed should be such that when the oblique surfaces are brought into accurate apposition, the foot shall either be at or slightly beyond a right angle to the leg. The foot is then brought into position, the cut surfaces of the tendon are carefully approximated and sewn together, preferably by a continuous suture. The flap is replaced in position and all haemorrhage arrested, the wound is sewn up without the intervention of a drainage