THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 77 The muscles and tendons are not contracted in the early stage of the disease, and in an infant a few weeks old there is usually little or no difficulty in reducing the deformity as far as the tendons are concerned; if, however, the deformity be allowed to continue they become tight, and the reposition of the foot cannot be carried out until after their division. The tendons chiefly affected in this way are those of the tibialis anticus and posticus, the tendo Achillis, and in some cases the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; those requiring division are as a rule the two tibiales and the tendo Achillis. TREATMENT.—In considering the treatment we have to take into consideration the alterations in the bones, the ligaments and the muscles, the last producing contraction of the tendons; the shortening of the plantar fascia; and finally, the tightness of the skin itself upon the inner border of the foot. The contraction of the plantar fascia and the tightness of the skin are points of special importance, for, unless means be taken to rectify these, the shortening of the inner border of the foot and the increase of the arch will not be remedied. In advanced cases also we find, in addition, that changes have occurred in parts subjected to pressure, which are normally not intended to bear any pressure at all. These changes consist essentially in the formation of callosities on the outer surface of the foot, and, in some severe cases, on the outer side of the dorsum. Beneath the callosities bursas develop, and these latter are specially liable to attacks of inflammation and suppuration, which may cause considerable pain and give rise to further thickening and matting together of the soft parts in their neighbourhood. The cases of equino-varus coming under the notice of the surgeon may be divided from the point of view of treatment into two main groups : (i) those in which the deformity can be readily reduced by manipulation, that is to say, those in which there are no resisting structures requiring division; and (2) those in' which there are one or more resisting structures, and where, therefore, some form of operative procedure is required to restore the foot to its proper position. This second group may be further sub-divided into two great classes, namely {a) those in which the obstacle to reduction is formed by shortened tendons, fasciee, or ligaments, and {d) those in which the obstacle is essentially due to some permanent alteration in the shape of the bones. (1) Treatment of cases where the deformity can be reduced by manipulation alone.—It is mainly the very early congenital cases seen within the first few weeks after birth which come under this heading, and in them, if careful treatment be begun at once and carried out perseveringly, the deformity may be cured without the neces- sity for any operative procedure. In this early stage the deformity is essentially due to weakness of the muscles and to alterations in the shape of the bones, which, in their turn, are very possibly the result of some defect in the rotation of the foot during late foetal life. The treatment of