248 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. into the sheath (generally in the form of minute haemorrhages), and rupture of the nutrient vessels, followed by disintegration of the nerve structures at the point of injury. These accidents usually occur as complications of fractures or dislocations; more rarely they result from severe blows on the nerve as it runs over some bony prominence. Symptoms.—In the case of a motor nerve there will, of course, be paralysis of the muscles it supplies. In the case of a sensory nerve there will be complete loss of sensation when the injury is severe; when it is less severe the patient usually complains of tinglings and various perverted sensations. In either case neuritis is apt to supervene after a time. Treatment.—The treatment is practically the same as that already described for compression of nerves (see p.- 244) and need not be repeated here. The same careful precautions must be taken, while waiting for recovery, to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve itself and the parts it supplies. When a portion of the nerve has been converted into a pulp, and the continuity of nerve transmission completely destroyed, the question of excising the irreparably damaged portion and uniting the two healthy ends may arise. This no doubt is the best treatment should a considerable length of the nerve be completely destroyed, and it should be carried out in the manner to be described immediately for wounds of nerves (see p. 251). It is, however, very difficult to diagnose this condition with certainty, because the complete loss of function might result from a temporary and comparatively trifling injury; where, however, several weeks elapse without any sign of recovery, and where the loss of both sensation and motion is complete, the surgeon is justified in exposing the nerve opposite the seat of injury. Should a portion be found soft and pulpy, sufficient should be removed to allow healthy fibres to be made out above and below; the remaining steps of the operation are those for nerve suture (see p. 251). Unless, however, the nerve has undergone complete destruction there is no special advantage in excising the injured portion, because the nerve fibrils will spread down from above the seat of damage through the injured portion just as readily as they will across the interval bridged over by catgut or by the other methods employed, while the nerve sheath, being intact, will guide the fibrils in the proper direction. Hence, in these cases, we only advise excision of a portion of the nerve when complete destruction has taken place. WOUNDS OF NERVES. — Wounds of nerves may be either simple punctures, as by a needle; clean-cut divisions ; or lacerated wounds, such as are met with in machinery accidents and gun-shot wounds. It is, however, only necessary to discuss here the treatment of a more or less complete division of the nerve, the injury caused by a mere puncture not being usually such as to call for any special treatment. Before proceeding to deal with the treatment of divided nerves, it will be well to mention the changes that take place in a nerve after division, and the mode in which regeneration occurs.