40 FLAT FOOT. accustomed to them, they should only be worn for a short period, the length of time being gradually increased as tolerance is established. They should ultimately be worn in the house-shoes as well as in the boots, as long as there is any tendency to sinking in the arch of the foot. Boots.—In addition to the use of these springs, the sole of the booc should be strengthened beneath the instep, for, if this be not done, the arch tends to sink in spite of the spring. This is best effected by con- tinuing the heel forwards on the inner side of the boot until it meets the front part of the sole; it is also of advantage to make the sole and heel thicker on the inner side than on the outer, so as to raise the inner border of the foot (see Fig. 24). Besides this, the patient should be cautioned not to turn the toes out whilst walking; they should be directed straight forwards, and the knees rotated slightly inwards. When walking also, it is well to direct the patient to raise himself on tip-toe from time to time, and to walk rather upon the toes than fiat upon the sole. Care should be taken not to allow the patient to walk too far at first, and in no case should he be allowed to continue walking until the foot feels tired; the amount of exercise can soon be gradually pro- longed. (2) Where the condition is chronic, where there is but little pain, and where the arch can be readily restored to its normal condition, it is not necessary to employ absolute rest in bed with fixation in plaster of Paris. From the very first the exercises above described should be carried out, friction, massage, and douching should be employed, and gentle exercise while wearing a suitable Whitman's spring encouraged; the other details, which are fully described above, must also be attended to. In these cases treatment must be continued for a very long time; indeed, in many patients the use of a spring becomes a necessity for the rest of their life, and it must be placed both in the walking boots and the house-shoes. Careful attention should also be given to any co- existing causes of the flat foot. Should the patient be weak or ansemic, the general condition will require attention, and iron, principally in the form of Blaud's capsules, may- with advantage be administered. Should there be any deformity, such as genu valgum, which may be the cause of the affection, appropriate means should be employed for its removal. It is of course quite futile to attempt to treat a case of flat foot depending upon genu valgum, unless the primary cause be corrected. (3) Where there is marked obliteration of the arch, accom- panied by considerable deformity, and where, in addition, there is some difficulty in restoring the arch by manipulation, it may be necessary to have recourse to some form of elastic traction in order to properly support the instep. The same method may also be called for in the cases in which Whitman's spring gives rise to so much pain that it is borne only with great difficulty. The best apparatus for this purpose is Mr. Golding Bird's modification of Barwell's spring, which is essentially