CHAPTER II. FLAT FOOT. Flat foot is essentially an affection of adolescence; it may however occur in comparatively young children, and it is also met with after growth has ceased. It is sometimes spoken of as "spurious valgus," but in reality it has nothing in common with true valgus, as it is primarily due to the giving way of the arch of the foot. CAUSES.—The primary cause of this affection has been variously described by different authors, but it consists essentially of an inability of the instep to support the weight of the body which is thrown upon it. The affection may develop either acutely or gradually. Acute flat foot is generally the result of some inflammatory condition affecting the structures in the sole, more particularly the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments; it is common after gonorrhoea as one form of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, after rheumatism itself, and after any inflammatory conditions about the foot which soften and weaken the ligaments. In most cases the condition develops slowly, and this is most marked in weakly subjects and in those whose occupations entail prolonged standing, such as barmaids, shop-assistants, and the like. It is also met with in association with rickets and with various ricketty deformities of the extremities, particularly genu valgum, where the weight of the body is thrown more upon the inner border of the foot than upon the sole ; in fact, any condition which leads to abnormal eversion of the foot tends to throw the weight upon its inner border and favours the production of this deformity. The condition seems to be more common in males than in females. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—As the result of the yielding of the arch of the foot, the head of the astragalus becomes partially dislocated inwards and downwards from the scaphoid bone, and in bad cases it may only articulate with the latter at its extreme outer part. As a consequence, the head of the astragalus forms a marked prominence beneath the skin on the inner border of the foot, the arch of the foot disappears, and the whole sole is applied flat to the ground. There is also a tendency for