92 CLUB-FOOT. tip of the external malleolus. This incision is carried directly down to the bone, and the soft parts are carefully raised in one mass from both dorsal and plantar surfaces of the tarsus by means of a suitable periosteum detacher. Although it is not absolutely necessary, the operation is greatly facilitated by making a second incision along the inner border of the foot, commencing just below and in front of the tip of the internal malleolus and terminating about a finger's breadth behind the base of the first metatarsal. This enables the soft structures to be raised from the bone on the inner side and thus the tarsus can be entirely denuded ■of all the soft structures, above and below, opposite the two incisions. It will be necessary to divide a portion of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle at its origin, and the insertion of the tibialis 'posticus tendon into the scaphoid will, in all probability, be cut through. After the soft parts have thus been thoroughly separated, they are retracted and pro- tected from injury by the introduction beneath them of flexible copper spatulae of suitable breadth, by which they can be forcibly pulled away from the bone. The next stage consists in the removal of the wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus. As we have already said, the amount of bone to be removed will depend on the degree of the deformity, only sufficient being taken away to enable the foot to come straight. The section through the bone is best effected by a broad chisel (by means of which the surgeon is enabled to vary the amount removed at different parts), but as a preliminary measure it is well to mark out the intended dimensions of the wedge with a narrow saw. As mentioned above, the wedge should be so planned that its base is directed to the upper and outer surfaces of the tarsus, while its apex lies at the inner border of the sole. A section of this kind not only allows the front part of the foot to be raised but brings it also into a position of abduction. All bleeding is arrested and the foot brought into position. The surgeon then examines to see if enough bone has been removed; if not, the requisite amount may be sawn off. The bleeding is arrested and the incisions are stitched up without the intervention of a drainage tube; with regard to the suturing there is a point of considerable importance that should be borne in mind. As a result of the long continuance of the foot in the faulty position, it will often be found that when the limb is brought straight the skin over the instep is very tight; if both the incisions be stitched up longitudinally a deep transverse groove forms between them over the dorsum of the foot, and the tension may be so great as to cause a partial sloughing of the skin. We are, therefore, accustomed to first of all stitch up the wound on the inner side in the ordinary way, and then, after having brought the foot straight, to suture the external one in any manner that will give rise to the least tension of the skin over the instep. As a rule this incision takes a somewhat ±-shape; that is to say, a certain portion of it at either end is stitched up longitudinally, but the central portion of the