l6 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. towards the inner side of the foot so as not to deflect the great toe from the straight line of the inner border of the foot (see Fig. 13). Bunion is especially marked in those who suffer from gout or rheumatoid arthritis; indeed it is probable that one of these conditions is necessary for the full development of the trouble. Cases of hallux valgus may come under observation: (i) at an early stage, when the divergence of the toe and the enlargement of the end of the bone are comparatively slight; (2) when the condition is well developed, with considerable enlargement of the bone, and the formation of a bursa over it; and (3) when the bursa has suppurated and a sinus is left. TREATMENT.—(i) In the early stage a good deal may be done to render the patient comfortable and to prevent further development of the A s c FtG. 13.—Bunion. Diagram illustrating the Principles to ue observed in MAKING Boots. C shows the deflection of the great toe and the cramped position of the others entailed by wearing the ordinary pointed-toed boots; it will be seen that the point of the boot lies along the middle line of the sole. £ shows the outline of the sole of a boot constructed on sound anatomical principles. The inner border of the front part of the sole is nearly parallel to the long axis of the foot, the boot comes to a point opposite the great toe, and is sloped away from that point to the outer border in accord- ance with the length of the other toes, which are thus not cramped at all. A, a very usual form of so-called anatomical boot which, while it is free from the most flagnuit faults of the usual pointed-toed variety, is not so good as B. The inner border of the sole is not quite straight, and so tends to deflect the great toe somewhat, while the squareness of the end of the boot both leaves a lot of unnecessary space between it and the toes and detracts considerably from the appearance of the foot. (After Meyer.) deformity by the use of properly constructed i/oo^s combined with some mechanical arrangement designed to counteract the abduction of the great toe. The boots must not be too narrow, and the inner border of the sole, as far as the extremity of the great toe, must be almost straight. Care must be taken to see that they are long enough; short boots, as has already been mentioned, are an important factor in the production of the deformity. The most suitable boots, on the whole, are those which go by the name of anatomical boots (see Fig. 13); in them the inner border is straight, and passes well beyond the tip of the great toe, and the outer border is rounded to correspond to the curve of the other toes. The boots cannot be said to be very comely to look at, but nevertheless they must be worn in these cases.