225 GANGLION. firm hold, and thus to apply effectual pressure; outside the last layer of lint may be placed a penny, or a piece of metal or wood of about that size. The object of this is to press the walls of the sac together, in the hope that they will adhere. The bandage is left on for about a week, and then nothing further is necessary. If the ganglion be cured, there will be no further trouble ; if not, it will re-fill. This treatment is successful in a considerable number of cases, and it should be tried as a first measure. If the ganglion re-fill after rupture, or if the sac be too firm to give way on pressure, the best procedure is to take a small tenotomy knife, and, after purifying it and the skin, to puncture the latter at a little distance from the ganglion, make the knife penetrate right across the sac to the wall on the opposite side, and then to cut horizontally to one side so as to divide the ganglion. The tenotomy knife is then withdrawn, and the contents of the sac are squeezed out; a small quantity often oozes through the tenotomy wound whilst the rest is dispersed into the cellular tissue. Of course the anatomical distribution of vessels and nerves in the vicinity must be borne in mind whilst performing this small operation, and in some situations, for this reason, the method cannot be employed. It is important to remember that if the sac wall be merely punctured, the ganglion will re-fill; a mde opening must be made so that the contents are freely evacuated into the cellular tissue around. After the knife is with- drawn, collodion is painted over the skin puncture, and a pad and bandage are firmly applied over the seat of the ganglion in the manner just described, and this is left on for about a week. In some cases the ganglion persistently re-fills after rupture or tenotomy, or in others it may be so situated that it can neither be ruptured nor safely divided with a tenotome, on account of the relation of the vessels, etc. Apart from these, the case may be one of compound ganglion, in which one compartment has been evacuated, but others remain, and afterwards increase in size. In all these cases it is best to- dissect out the sac. A curved incision is made over the swelling, of course with careful antiseptic precautions, a flap turned aside, the ganglion exposed, and its wall isolated with a dissector and cut away. In doing this the sheath of the tendon is naturally opened, and, when the ganglion communicates with a joint, the articular cavity also; but if the operation be done antiseptically, no trouble results. The wound is then stitched up and antiseptic dressings are applied; as a rule it is not necessary to put on a splint. After a few days active and passive motion is begun, but there is very little tendency for the tendon to adhere to its sheath. Summary of treatmetit.—The treatment, then, of ganglion in the order of severity of the procedures is rupture by simple pressure, division by means of the tenotomy knife, and excision. The choice must depend on the circumstances of the case, more especially on the situation of the ganglion, the firmness of its walls, and the question whether it is compound or not; those connected with joints are usually compound, pr. II. p