SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. 240 then separated sufficiently, and the overlapping parts stitched together laterally. The further treatment as regards movement, splint and so forth, is the same as has just been described; the results of these operations are said to be very satisfactory. When no operation is thought desirable, or when the patient will not consent to one, the surgeon must content himself with the use of apparatus. The tendon is readily replaced in the early stage by flexing and everting the foot and pressing the tendon into the groove; the foot is then strongly inverted and brought nearly to a right angle. A pad is firmly fixed over the line of the groove so as to prevent the tendon from escaping, and an external poro-plastic splint applied so as to fix the ankle joint. The splint should not be left off for about six weeks, except for passive motion, which is carried out in the same way as after operation, and then the foot and ankle should be bandaged for some time, and the patient cautioned to walk about with the foot inverted. Dislocation of the long head of the biceps gives rise to a very considerable amount of pain and disability, and the tendon cannot satis- factorily be replaced and kept in position except by means of an operation. Treatment.—In order to obtain access to the spot where the tendon has slipped out of its groove (which is usually above the insertion of the latissimus dorsi and the pectoralis major) a long incision should be made from the coracoid process downwards along the anterior border of the deltoid, the deep fascia divided, and the muscle pulled to the outer A B A \ B Fig. 87. — Oblique method of LENGTHENING TeNDONS. In A is shown the line of incision in the tendon, whilst in B one end has been made to slide upon the other until sufficient lengthening has been obtained; the opposing surfaces are then sutured. Fig. 88.— T_ Shaped incision for LKNUTHENING TENDONS. A shows the incision for lengthening the tendon, B the manner in which the tendon is united when the lengthening is eflected. The incision be should be a good deal longer than the amount of lengthening required.