PREFACE. viii We have not mentioned all the exceptional conditions that may be met with, but we have endeavoured to include all the circumstances with which the surgeon is most commonly called upon to deal. The task has been one of some difificulty, the more so as we have had, to a certain extent, to break new ground. This must serve as our excuse for the many shortcomings in the work. PREFACE TO PART II. In the reviews of the volume that has already appeared, some exception has been taken to what has been erroneously regarded as an attempt to deal with the subject of treatment independently of those of symptoms and pathology. We desire to take this opportunity of refuting this mistake; treatment, to be sound and scientific, must obviously be based upon pathology, and, to be intelligible, the pathological points on which it is based must be stated. We have attempted to give all the symptoms of each particular affection that seem needful to render the character and course of the disease intelligible, and we have introduced all the points in pathology which bear directly upon the treatment we recommend. In the ordinary text-books for students, symptoms and pathology are gone into most fully, and only the most salient points in the treatment are indicated; we, on the other hand, have endeavoured to give only the salient points in the symptoms and pathology, and have gone fully into the question of treatment. We venture to think that this is what the man in actual practice wants. It will be noticed that no mention is made of Scoliosis in the section dealing with Deformities. We are of opinion that it will be better discussed in all its bearings in connection with the other affections of the Spine, and it will therefore appear in Part V. Our best thanks are again due to Dr. J. Fredk. Silk for much help in seeing this volume through the press. For the majority of the illustrations of surgical instruments we are again indebted to Messrs. Down Brothers; for Fig. 15 we are indebted to Messrs. Krohne & Sesemann. Figs. 98 and 99 we owe to the kindness of Mr. C. A. Ballance, while to Messrs. Ferd. Enke & Co., of Stuttgart, are due our thanks for leave to copy or modify various illustrations (acknowledged in the text) from Prof. Hoffa's well-known Lehrbuch der Orthopddischen Chirurgie. Mr. Robert Jones has kindly given us permission to use Fig. 40, while Figs. 39 and 53 are, with the permission of Messrs. Longmans, taken from Erichsen's Stirgery. With the above exceptions, the whole of the drawings in this volume have been made by Mr. T. P. Collings, from original sketches or actual preparations; to him our thanks are due for the care he has bestowed upon the work and the skill with which he has interpreted our ideas. London, 1899.