238 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. a sudden forcible movement when the foot is everted, such as a fall where the foot suddenly reaches the ground in an everted position, is very apt to dislocate the tendon from its groove. As the accident occurs there is a sensation of tearing, accompanied by sudden pain and a certain amount of loss of power in the foot. Very often, too, there is a good deal of subfascial haemorrhage and considerable swelling, so that, unless the case be seen very early, the exact injury cannot be diagnosed until two or three weeks have elapsed; it is then found that on the outer side of the malleolus a tendon which ought not to be there rolls about under the finger. Treatment.—The treatment consists in replacing the tendon in its groove and keeping it there by artificial means until the rent in the sheath has united. This may be done either by replacing it by manipulation, and afterwards fixing the foot in the inverted position, or by means of operation. Without operation it is a very difficult matter to get the tendon satis- factorily into place, and more particularly to keep it there afterwards; and, as considerable swelling generally follows the injury, it may readily slip out again and the displacement not be recognized until the swelling subsides some weeks subsequently. Hence immediate operation is the better pro- cedure, and we shall, therefore, describe it first. After the skin has been purified, a curved incision is made with the convexity forwards, and a flap is turned back, so as to expose the groove behind the external malleolus. The tendon is then readily replaced in position after everting and extending the foot; care should be taken, while doing this, to see that the edge of the torn sheath does not roll up between the tendon and the bone. The edges of the sheath are then brought together over the tendon by a continuous stitch of fine catgut. The wound is closed, ordinary dressings are applied, and the foot is brought to a right angle and strongly inverted. This position is maintained by a poro-plastic splint moulded to the outer side of the leg and foot, and padded with salicylic wool. The foot, put up in this manner, is not touched for ten days, when the stitches are removed and active and passive movements are begun. Whilst movement is being practised, the thumb should be firmly pressed over the tendon, and the foot kept well inverted; afterwards, the splint is re-applied. This passive movement should be practised daily, and the patient should at the same time move the foot in various directions himself. It is advisable not to allow walking, or to leave the foot out of the splint permanently, until about six weeks after the operation, so as to give time for the union of the sheath to become quite firm. Adhesion of the tendon to its sheath is avoided by the use of this regular daily active and passive motion carried out while the surgeon keeps the tendon in its groove, and sees that the patient keeps the foot well inverted. As has already been said, there is often so much swelling about the part that when the surgeon first sees the case it is impossible to diagnose the condition, and some time may elapse before the swelling has sufficiently subsided for the displacement of the tendon to be made out. It is necessary.