SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 284 explained by the more laborious occupations of the male sex; heredity- seems to play an important part in the occurrence of the condition; anything which interferes with the circulation, such as pregnancy, may also lead to their production. Occupations involving long-continued standing, especially if associated at the same time with considerable exertion, are very liable to lead to varicosity, and hence it is extremely frequent among shopmen, barmaids, porters, washerwomen, etc. Habitual constipation, the use of tight bands, such as garters around the limb, etc., are also very common accessory causes. Gout is also said to predispose to this condition. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—Obstruction to the circulation alone, however, though it usually predisposes to, or aggravates existing varix, is not necessarily the direct cause of the trouble. Before the actual develop- ment of varicosity, the walls of the veins become weakened as the result of some chronic inflammatory condition of the coats of the vessels. The first changes which occur in the veins are swelling and thickening of the walls, which lose their elasticity and become so weak that they cannot resist the pressure of the blood from above; the result is distension of the wall of the vein and incompetence of the valves. The veins also elongate, and after a time stand out as dilated and coiled tubes. The distension is usually irregular, being greater about the valves; when the veins are much convoluted, neighbouring coils may open into one another, and thus large blood sacs may be formed. The most dilated portions may distend the thin skin over them, and, indeed, may sometimes burst through it. It must be carefully borne in mind that the chief agent in bringing about the dilatation of the veins is the pressure due to the weight of the column of blood from above, which is unsupported by the incompetent valves ; the venous pressure from below is trivial. The subcutaneous tissue affords no real support to the veins, and when the valves have become incompetent there is nothing to help them to sustain the weight of the column of blood. In the deeper veins, on the other hand, the contraction of the muscles drives on the blood, and also gives support to the walls of the veins lying beneath and among them; the reason that prolonged standing leads to varicosity is that the muscles are not then in action, and do not give this support at a time when, the patient being erect, the full weight of the blood column tells on the wall of the veins. It is extremely important to remember the importance of this downward pressure, as it bears directly on treatment. VARIETIES.—From the point of view of treatment we may divide varicose veins into two distinct classes. In the first are the cases in which only the larger subcutaneous venous trunks are dilated, and in the second are those in which there is a markedly varicose condition of the small veins in the skin itself, with or without dilatation of the main veins; the skin of the affected part is then mottled with numerous small dilated venous radicals. This latter condition is the one most likely to be asso- ciated with ulceration, and the most difficult to relieve.