14 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. very unsatisfactory ; in severe cases, even with the splint, the results are very poor. We are, therefore, of the opinion that it is best, except in the very slightest cases, to substitute for tenotomy an operation which Fig. 12.—Splint for use in Akter-Treatment of Hammer Toe. This is one that can be easily improvised, and is suitable for use where it is merely desired to prevent the recurrence of flexion. It is made of whalebone or light flexible steel, which can be bent to fit the outline of the foot. If preferred, it can be made to lie along the sole of the foot. ■obviates all necessity for the subsequent employment of a splint, and which, while it does not lay the patient up for any length of time, gives an extremely satisfactory result. (2) Excision of the head of the first phalanx.—The operative procedures which may be adopted are removal of the head of the first phalanx, excision of the joint or amputation ; the latter method is not at all to be recommended. To remove the toe, in acquired cases, is simply to favour the increase of the hallux valgus. With the possible exception of working men, who wish to get to work as quickly as possible, and who there- fore insist on amputation, we strongly advise the removal of the head of the first phalanx in all but the very slightest cases. If enough bone be removed, the toe can be straightened without the least tension, and there is no necessity to divide any ligaments or tendons. After a few weeks the patient has a movable joint which has little tendency to become flexed again; the result is much better than that of excision. The operation is done as follows. An incision is made along the dorsum of the first phalanx parallel to and a little to one side of the extensor tendon; it should extend from an inch above the line of the first inter-phalangeal joint and run well beyond it, and should be carried directly down to the bone. The soft structures are then separated from the end of the first phalanx by a periosteum detacher and a few strokes of the knife, the head of the bone is made to project into the wound and is nipped off by cutting pliers. The bone is generally divided about a quarter of an inch above the articular surface, but enough must be removed to allow the tip of the toe to be brought straight without any tension. After the bleeding has been arrested, the corn over the first inter-phalangeal joint is pared away, the wound united by one or two fine sutures and a cyanide