TUBERCULOSIS. 157 The acid very often starts the bleeding again, and this interferes with its caustic action. Should this occur it is necessary to take great care that the blood does not flow over the skin and carry the nitric acid with it, lest the skin should be burned. Any bleeding points should therefore be tem- porarily compressed, and, in the meanwhile, the application of the nitric acid should be made to any other parts which are free from blood. In this manner it is generally possible to soak the whole surface of the wound with the acid, and there should be no undue hurry in neutralizing its action, as it does not penetrate deeply into the tissues, and there is no need to fear any excessive destruction from its use. After five to ten minutes the acid should be neutralized by pouring a solution of carbonate of soda over the wound. A handful of washing soda, which can usually be obtained in any house, is placed in a tumbler of water, and the solution is poured over the raw surface. The first effect is to cause the liberation of carbonic acid, and con- sequently ebulHtion, and this goes on as long as any free nitric acid is left. When the latter is all neutralized, the ebullition stops, so that in this we have a definite test as to how long it is necessary to con- tinue pouring on the soda solution. When the action has ceased, a piece of boracic lint dipped into a 1-2000 sublimate solution is the best application. After about twelve hours, when the bleeding has quite stopped, this may be left off, and half- or quarter-strength boracic ointment substituted for it. If the wound be large, and subsequent contraction prob- able, it is well, as soon as granulation has occurred, to employ skin-grafting (see Part I., p. 50). When there are only isolated nodules and small ulcers, the treatment is more difficult, but here a small sharp spoon should be used to scrape out the little nodules thoroughly, and the cavities thus made should be filled up with nitric acid, and this subsequently neutralized with carbonate of soda. The thermo-cautery or galvano-cautery may also be employed to destroy very small nodules. (4) In the case of lupus vorax, complete excision is essential, whatever be the part affected; where the resulting wound is large, immediate skin- grafting may be resorted to. SCROFULOUS GUMMATA.—The fourth form of tuberculosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissues is that spoken of by the French as "gommes scrofuleuses" or scrofulous gummata. Here nodules form in the skin or subcutaneous tissue, which are at first hard, but which in time tend to soften and break down, and lead to the formation of abscesses. Thus there are multiple chronic abscesses about the body which burst and give rise to tuberculous ulceration of the skin, with a sinus extending into the deeper tissues. This condition occurs chiefly in infants, in whom the nodules are subcutaneous; in adults it is rarer, and the nodules are in the skin. On examination, the nodules are found to be tuberculous tumours. Treatment.—The nodules should be excised as one would excise