FEMORAL ANEURYSM. 357 the operation for ligature, the best plan is to api)ly two ligatures to the artery, and divide it completely across between them, and in this way the puncture in the vein is easily exposed. It is impossible to employ pressure to stop the bleeding from the vein, as would be done under ordinary circumstances, on account of the risk of gangrene from interference with the collateral circulation. The surgeon has choice of two methods in which he will be influenced by the size of the aperture in the vein; should it be quite small, a lateral ligature will suffice to close it; should the wound be too large for this, the vein may be stitched up in the manner described for the treatment of wounds of veins (see p. 277). The entire lumen of the vessel should never be occluded if it be possible to avoid it, as such a procedure would offer a markedly increased difficulty to the return of blood, and where the tissues are feeble this might just turn the scale in favour of gangrene. In vigorous, healthy individuals, however, complete transverse ligature of the vein does not seem to materially complicate matters. The Old Operation.—The old operation in this situation is performed as follows. After the limb has been disinfected and prepared in the ordinary manner it is placed in the position for ligature of the femoral vessel, and the circulation is controlled by the fingers of an assistant who compresses the common femoral as it passes over the brim of the pelvis. The surgeon then makes a free incision of sufficient length, according to the size of the aneurysm, along the course of the superficial femoral artery, and if there be sufficient room between the aneurysm and the assistant's finger it is well before opening the sac to tie the femoral artery above it. The assistant may then be allowed to relax the pressure, the aneurysmal sac is laid freely open throughout its whole length, all the clots are turned out with the finger or a spoon, and the bleeding from the lower end is arrested at first temporarily by digital pressure, and sub- sequently by clearing the vessel and applying a ligature on the distal side of the opening. When all the clots have been turned out, it is well to isolate as much of the sac as possible, and this should be clipped away. The posterior part of it, however, is best left behind, as the dissection needed to separate it from the vein might easily injure the latter. When it is impossible to secure the artery on the proximal side of the aneurysm before opening the sac, a small incision must be made into the sac and plugged at once by introducing the finger into it. The finger feels for the opening of the vessel, occludes it by pressure, and the artery on the proximal side is rapidly cleared and a ligature applied to it. The finger is then withdrawn, the sac laid freely open, and the operation is finished as above described. It is sometimes possible, when the aneurysm is small and well-defined, to cut down upon the femoral immediately above the sac, and ligature it before incising the aneurysm. This simplifies the operation. The old operation is most suited for cir- cumscribed aneurysms of small size or those that have become diffuse.