l88 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. scraped, and then a small fragment of sponge or wool dipped in undiluted carbolic acid introduced into it, and left in as a plug. The skin is next thoroughly purified, the sinus enclosed in an elliptical incision, and care is taken not to button-hole it in excising the mass. As even then it is impossible to be quite sure that perfect asepsis has been secured, a drainage tube should be introduced into the wound, as otherwise suppuration might occur and lead to the failure of healing by first intention. After-treatment.—Of course in all cases the patient should be placed under the best hygienic conditions, and after the wound has healed should be sent to the country for some weeks so as to thoroughly re-establish the general health. TUMOURS. The neoplasms occurring in lymphatic glands may be either primary or secondary. The primary tumours of lymphatic glands are rare, the chief being lymphadenoma, a condition already fully described in Part I., p. 262. The secondary tumours of lymphatic glands are either sarcomata or carcinomata, and as they have been referred to under tumours (see Part I., Chap. XV.), and will be referred to again in speaking of these diseases as they affect various organs and parts of the body, we need not enlarge upon them here. Treatment.—In all cases of cancerous disease the glandular tumours should be removed, if possible, and great care should be taken, as in the case of tuberculosis, not only to remove the visibly enlarged glands, but also the whole glandular area, which can only be done by making a com- plete dissection, embracing all the glands and fat, and removing them in one mass. This is most important, and is most easily carried out in the axilla and the neck, where glandular infection after disease of the breast or mouth is very likely to occur. Further, in cases of degenerating malignant glands, the greatest care must be taken not to rupture them, as otherwise the whole wound may become a diffuse malignant sore.