10 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. of the fingers undoubtedly seems to interfere with their growth ; a finger which has been freed grows much faster than one that is still webbed. At the same time, the hand in infants is so small and so difficult to fix that it will generally be found best to wait until the child is a year or two old, and the fingers have attained a length and size more suited for the application of splints. (3) Where the bones are united together.—The cases in which the neighbouring phalanges are more or less completely welded together by bony union are very much more difficult to deal with, and in many Fig. 7.—Splint for use after Didot's Operation for Werbed Fingers. This is only shown applied to one linger, as generally after Didot's operation the result in one finger is so good that a splint is not required for it, and is only called for in the one where the residt is not so satisfactory ; it can however be made with two finger pro- longations if desired. The splint is made of well padded metal, and the dorsal finger part can if necessary be bent backwards to any extent that may be thought desirable, in order to counteract any tendency to flexion. instances it is doubtful whether it is advisable to interfere with them at all. Where the deformity is very marked, and the finger is not so useful as it might be were the deformity overcome, an attempt may be made to remedy it. The only proceeding which offers any prospect of success is, however, not to attempt to separate the fingers, for then there would be no covering for the opposed surfaces, but to remove a portion of the welded bones so as to obtain one good finger instead of two bad ones. The skin cover- ing the portion of the finger taken away will be sufficient to cover over the raw surface left, and a satisfactory result, not only in the way of less deformity but also of greater mobility, may be obtained. The precise steps to be adopted in operating must, however, depend on the condition present, and cannot be described here.