SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. 258 {b) General.—Among these may be mentioned alcoholism, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, and anaemia. When neuritis is due to a constitutional cause it is very apt to be of the multiple variety. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES—In acute neuritis the nerve becomes distended, swollen, and softer than usual. Its vessels are much enlarged and full of blood, and extravasation takes place into the nerve; later on, marked degeneration of the nerve fibres occurs. In the more chronic cases the changes in the nerve consist mainly of those characteristic of chronic inflammation. The nerve becomes enlarged and harder than usual; under the microscope the appearances of interstitial inflammation are seen, i.e. proliferation of the nerve sheath, and the formation of new fibrous tissue along the course of the nerve, which, as it contracts, presses upon the fibres, causing them to atrophy and degenerate. SYMPTOMS.—The nerve functions soon become impaired ; in severe cases the parts supplied may permanently lose both sensation and motion, but such cases are exceptionally rare. In sensory or mixed nerves the earliest effect of the inflammation is neuralgic pain, which is more or less intense in ■character, and is accompanied by hypereesthesia of the skin supplied by the nerve; in some rare cases epileptiform convulsions may occur as an early symptom. The neuralgic pains are at first more or less limited to the affected nerve and its branches, but in the later stages of the affection they may spread to nerves other than that primarily affected. For example, in cases of neuralgia in one division of the trigeminal nerve the pain is very apt to spread to the other divisions, and may even cross over to the opposite side and affect the corresponding nerves there. Accompanying the hyperaesthesia are usually perversions of sensation, such as tinglings; these are generally worse at night. It is also very common for trophic changes to be met with in the part supplied by the aff"ected nerve. The temperature of the limb may at first be considerably raised, whilst the cutaneous circulation is increased, and the limb looks flushed and hot. Various eruptions, such as bullae on the skin and subsequently indolent ulcers, may also occur. The nails become rough and corrugated, whilst bullae are common about the tips of the fingers and toes. After a time sensation becomes less and less acute, and the anaesthesia may gradually increase until complete loss of sensation is established. The muscles supplied by the motor fibres waste, but complete paralysis rarely or never occurs. It generally only affects two or three of the muscles supplied by the nerve, and is seldom present except where the inflammatory process has been very acute, or has lasted so long as to completely disorganize the aff"ected nerve. When neuritis has once become established, there is a great tendency for the disease to extend along the nerve in both directions; that is to say, it may ascend from the branches to the trunk or vice versd. Under these circumstances a condition that was at first one of local or peripheral neuritis, readily develops into the more diff"use or multiple variety.