214 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. thumb and the radial extensor tendons. It also occurs in the sheaths of the extensor tendons in pianists. It is sometimes met with also in the lower extremity after prolonged swimming or bicycling, when it usually affects the tibials, the long extensors of the toes, or sometimes the peronei. It may occur in connection with the tendo Achillis in soldiers as a result of over-marching. Rheumatism is supposed to be a predisposing cause, and, in the case of washerwomen, many attribute the occurrence more to the hands being repeatedly alternately plunged into warm water and then exposed to cold air, than to excessive use. Treatment.—Rest to the affected limb for a week or two is usually advisable; it must not be continued longer than this, lest adhesions form and interfere with movement. In the case of the hand, the forearm and hand should be placed on an anterior splint, reaching almost as low as the knuckles, and should be carried in a sling; the thumb should be allowed to hang down by the edge of the splint, and the metacarpus should be thrown well back. Blisters are often of considerable value; an elongated blister (see Part I., p. i8) should be applied over the region of crepitation, and this may be repeated in three or four days; generally two applica- tions are sufficient. When the blister has risen, it should be punctured, the fluid allowed to escape, and boracic ointment applied, while outside this light compression may be applied by means of a mass of wool bandaged on moderately firmly until the blister has quite healed. When this has occurred, benefit may be obtained from the use of mercurial ointment rubbed into the part night and morning for two or three days. As soon as the splint is left off, the patient is encouraged to move the fingers and wrist, and if there be any tendency to stiffness, passive movement should also be em- ployed. These are the three essential points in the treatment during the active stage—rest, blistering, and light compression followed by early active and passive movement. If there be a rheumatic tendency, salicylate of soda should be administered in doses of five to ten grains three times a day. (2) Plastic teno-synovitis.—This form of the affection is much more serious than the one just described; the effusion is greater and the tendency to the formation of adhesions is much more marked. In it a considerable quantity of fibrinous material is thrown out on the surface of the sheath, and this afterwards tends to organize and give rise to firm adhesions between the tendon and its sheath, whereby movement is seriously impeded. The origin of this condition is generally traumatic; it follows contusions, fractures about the joints, sprains, or dislocations, or it occurs after wounds and suppurations in the vicinity of the tendon sheaths. It may also, however, occur without any previous injury, in which case it is supposed to be of rheumatic or gouty origin. The plastic form is the one so common after diffuse cellulitis of the hand, whitlow, and similar affections, and here the inflammation of the tendon sheaths is secondary to the other conditions, and is not necessarily due to infective organisms. Symptoms.—Pain, especially on movement or pressure, is very acute,