268 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. to plunge it rapidly through the soft parts, as otherwise the point of the needle glances off the nerve and does not penetrate it. After the first needle has been introduced it is left in situ so as to fix the nerve, along the course of which some six or eight needles are then introduced at other points. A good guide as to whether the nerve has been punctured or not is the pain experienced by the patient. The pain on puncturing a nerve is sharp and characteristic and is referred to the particular nerve itself, whereas there is no particular pain attached to a puncture rapidly performed through the soft parts; if, therefore, any of the needles fail to elicit this characteristic symptom, they should be removed and re- introduced. The mode in which this procedure acts is very difficult to understand, but it undoubtedly gives relief in not a few cases, and as it is perfectly harmless, it might, in the case of a large nerve like the sciatic, precede the performance of such an operation as nerve-stretching. Summary of treatment.—We may summarize the treatment of neuritis in the order in which it should be employed as follows. In acute neuritis the first indication is to remove the cause; besides this, rest, hot fomenta- tions, mustard leaves, and the use of anodyne liniments, antipyrin, etc., or the injection of morphine and cocaine should be resorted to in order to relieve the pain. The patient's diathesis should also be considered, and if there be gout, rheumatism, syphilis, etc., constitutional remedies such as colchicum, salicylate of soda, iodide of potassium, and so forth should be administered. In chronic neuritis rest and counter-irritation (which is best carried out by the use of Corrigan's cautery, blisters and galvanism) are the chief agents. Any constitutional affection that may be present should be treated on the lines just detailed for the acute forms. Anodyne applications, chiefly in the form of liniments, should be employed at night, and, if the pain be severe, occasional injections of morphine may be used. As the neuritis improves, the employment of hot baths and the use of douches and mild massage are very useful. In the more refractory cases operative procedures have to be considered. Where the nerve is a large one, such as the sciatic, it is well perhaps to commence by employing acupuncture. Should this fail, or should the nerve be one of the smaller ones not likely to be hit off by the needle, nerve-stretching is the best procedure; should that fail neurectomy may have to be resorted to in the case of a sensory or mixed nerve. Should the neuritis occur in connection with malignant disease, or any other incurable malady, neurectomy may be at once per- formed without wasting time by trying nerve-stretching. Under these circumstances, and even in certain cases where the pain is intolerable but the cause is not the pressure of a malignant tumour, the question of the division of posterior nerve roots, in any case in which the nerve cannot be clearly exposed above the limit of the inflammation, must be con- sidered. The operation is of course a very much more severe one, and should only be undertaken when the patient suffers such intense agony as