328 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. two places, divided between them, and secured by catgut ligatures. Sometimes the inferior thyroid vein may get in the way and may be considerably dilated; if so, it must be divided between two ligatures. The inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle is then defined, the deep cervical fascia incised parallel with it, and the muscle pulled outwards with retractors. The lower part of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will then come into view, and should be drawn inwards towards the middle line, the cervical fascia being incised sufficiently for the purpose. The omo-hyoid muscle is also seen and drawn upwards. By this means a triangular space is left which is bounded by the omo-hyoid muscle above and externally, the sterno-hyoid muscle internally, and the sterno- mastoid muscle below and externally (see Fig. io6); in it the carotid sheath is exposed. Should the lateral lobe of the thyroid overlap the sheath it must be freed and drawn inwards into a retractor. The artery is then cleared and ligatured in an exactly similar manner to that already de- scribed for ligature of the vessel above the omo-hyoid. Should the situation of the aneurysm necessitate more room, it can be obtained by detaching the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid by means of a trans- verse incision running outwards from the lower end of the vertical one. The muscle is pulled outwards, and after the operation is stitched in position by one or two- catgut stitches. Difficulties and Dangers.—Ligature of the common carotid, whether done above or below the omo-hyoid muscle, is always a very serious procedure from the frequency with which it is followed by cerebral com- plications. When the artery is ligatured, the collateral circulation through the middle cerebral artery is very often imperfect, and portions of the brain supplied by it may undergo softening; the consequence is that hemi- plegia occurs, frequently with a fatal result. The percentage of cases in which this occurs is something like io%; it is still greater if branches of the external carotid or the trunk of the internal carotid are also ligatured simultaneously. Under these circumstances, something like 25% of the cases suffer from hemiplegia, and of these nearly one half are fatal. These cerebral complications may occur immediately after the application of a ligature, or they may not appear until after the lapse of 24 to 36 hours, or even longer. Usually they begin in about twelve hours, the patient complaining of a feeling of giddiness and weakness on one side. This gradually increases, and is generally accompanied by a considerable mental disturbance, which finally ends in coma and death. The treatment of an afieurysm situated at the bifurcation of the common carotid by simultaneous ligature of the common and internal trunks may be an operation of the greatest difficulty, owing to the small space available above the aneurysm. The first step is of course to tie the common trunk on the proximal side of the aneurysm; this has the advantage that, unless there are many clots in the sac, the tumour will collapse sufficiently to enable the surgeon to get satisfactory access to