I04 GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. the tibia. Considerable difference of opinion also exists as to the causation of the disease. By some it is held to be always due to rickets^ whilst by others it is attributed (particularly the form occurring during adolesence) to laxity of the internal lateral ligament, which tends to throw increased pressure on the outer side of the joint and so to produce an arrest of development there, whilst increased growth occurs on the inner side. Recent researches, however, in particular the work of Mickulicz, appear to throw considerable light on the true pathology of the affection. It has been shown that neither in the child nor in the young adult is there any change in the epiphyses of the femur or the tibia. In the femur there is no increased length in the internal condyle, and no diminution in the external; the whole change apparently occurs in the diaphysis in the immediate neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line. It has also been shown that these changes are not limited to the femur, but affect the tibia to a corresponding degree, so that in all cases of marked genu valgum the bones of the leg show a curvature as well as the femur. This is a point of the greatest importance to remember in determining the treatment. In young children, as well as in adolescents, the condition is essentially due to a softening of the bones; in the former, the disease seems to be invariably of a ricketty nature, whilst in young adults it is not improbable that this is also the case, although it is frequently impossible to lind any ricketty change, except the softening of the bone. Whether the disease in adolescence be due to rickets or not, the facts remain that, before it can occur, the bones must be soft enough to undergo bending, and, further, that the curvature occurs in the diaphysis immediately above the epiphyseal line. The changes in the femur consist of an outward bending at the lower end of the shaft, and an extension downwards of the diaphysis on the inner side, so that the epiphyseal line is altered in position and runs obliquely from without, downwards and inwards. In the tibia the change occurs in the diaphysis immediately below the epiphyseal line, and results in an outward curvature of the bone at that spot. In addition to the alterations in the immediate neighbourhood of the knee joint, certain other changes are also met with in this condition. In young children, especially, there is a tendency to hyper-extension of the joint itself, whilst the femur becomes rotated outwards, so that in walking the foot may be markedly everted. Flat foot is also very frequently an accompaniment of the affection, and in some cases it may probably be the actual exciting cause of the defor- mity, the alteration in the foot throwing the line of transmission of the weight of the body somewhat outwards. This diminishes the pressure on the inner part of the lower end of the femur, increases it on the outer side, and thus produces the curvature. The condition is generally bilateral, especially in young children, although it is generally worse in one leg than in the other. TREATMENT.—This is partly general and partly local. The g^eneral treatment must be directed to the removal of the cause which produces