THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 59 should be brought together carefully by a stitch or two and a gauze dressing applied in the usual manner. The real disadvantage of a large skin incision nowadays is not the risk of sepsis, as was formerly the case, but the possi- bility of adhesion of the scar to the new material thrown out between the ends of the tendon. Afier-treattnent.—The next point that arises is the question as to whether the deformity should be at once over-corrected and the foot put up in that position, or whether it should be left for a few days in its faulty position until a certain amount of reparative material has been thrown out between the divided ends of the tendon. The answer to this question depends very largely upon the degree of deformity present. If, when the foot is fully flexed, there be an interval of two inches or more between the divided ends of the tendon (a condition, however, which is unusual in the milder forms of talipes we are now considering), there would certainly be some risk of imperfect union, and the uniting material between the cut ends would probably be thin and soft, instead of broad and firm; in other words, a condition of talipes calcaneus may be substituted for that of equinus. Hence, under these circumstances it is better to apply a small pad of cyanide gauze over the puncture, to place the limb on a splint without any attempt to rectify the deformity, and to leave it for about a week, so as to allow plastic material to be poured out between the divided ends of the tendon before they are markedly separated. On the other hand, in the milder cases which we are now considering, the foot may almost invariably be put up at once at right angles upon a suitable splint, the one we prefer being the metal splint with a stout copper wire connection, which has already been described (see Fig. 26). The dressing (a piece of cyanide gauze or salicylic wool) applied to the puncture should be quite small and should be fixed on with collodion, and care must be taken to see that the bandage which fastens the limb to the splint does not press upon the gap between the divided ends; should it do so, the formation of plastic material between the ends may be greatly interfered with. After about a week the deformity should be over-corrected. In the cases first mentioned, where the separation between the ends of the tendon is considerable, it will be sufficient by the end of that time to bring the foot up to a right angle with the leg, and subsequently to increase the flexion every two or three days, until, at the end of another week or ten days, the foot should be at the extreme limit of flexion. In the milder cases, however, to which we have been referring, this limit of flexion can usually be reached within a week after the operation, when the foot should be fixed in plaster of Paris in this over-corrected position for another fort- night. After three weeks from the operation the continued use of splints or plaster of Paris casings may be abandoned, and the limb care- fully and regularly massaged, while the patient is encouraged to carry out