117 GENU RECURVATUM. in several places at the same time, there is a risk of the fragments not uniting properly, or if they do, it is difficult to insure that they unite in perfect position. GENU RECURVATUM. This condition is usually congenital and is comparatively rare; in it the leg is hyper-extended at the knee joint. It is met with in connection with congenital dislocations of the knee, and also in some cases of con- genital dislocation of the hip. Sometimes, however, it occurs without any other deformity, apparently as the result of weakening or stretching of the ligaments of the joint, particularly the posterior. It is occasion- ally met with as the result of infantile paralysis, and it may also occur in connection with diseases of joints; for instance, it is not uncommon after longstanding tuberculous hip-joint disease, where the posterior ligaments of the knee have yielded during extension as a result of the deficient nutrition of the limb. In Charcot's disease also it is not at all uncommon. TREATMENT.—The congenital cases are usually the only ones which call for vigorous treatment; the deformity is very seldom excessive in the others and can generally be rectified by putting up the limb for a pro- longed period in a slightly flexed position and then employing an apparatus furnished with a hinge opposite the knee joint, fitted with a stop to prevent hyper-extension. In the congenital cases, however, it is often very difficult to obtain a satisfactory result. In them it is not uncommon for the patella to be absent; in any case it is usually very small. The treatment should be directed in the first place to straightening the knee and afterwards an attempt should be made to obtain flexion by the use of apparatus. The following procedure may be adopted. A posterior splint which runs down as far as the popliteal space is fixed to the thigh, and the limb is laid upon an inclined plane which terminates just above the knee. Extension by weight and pulley is then applied to the limb; at first this should be in the line of the thigh, so as to merely stretch the ligaments. After two or three weeks the pulley may be gradually lowered so as to produce an increasing amount of flexion, the thigh remaining fixed in the elevated position. In very bad cases, however, these attempts to obtain flexion may fail, while if they be made too energetically a true anterior dislocation of the leg may occur. As a rule, when the muscles and ligaments are shortened, only operative interference will overcome the trouble. The operative measures consist in the division of the quadriceps extensor, which should be done through an open incision about four inches above the knee joint. A curved incision with the convexity upwards is made, a flap turned down, and the muscle divided in a V-shaped or zig-zag manner, by the method described in Chap. XV.