FIBROMATA. situation, and the edges of the skin brought together. The hard fibromata are simply shelled out of the skin by means of a suitable incision parallel to the long axis of the tumour. MOLES.—A mole is a soft fibromatous thickening of the skin, with or without hypertrophy of the hair follicles and the pigmentary layer; it may or may not be pigmented. Treatment.—The danger of pigmented moles is that they may become the starting point of melanotic sarcomata as the patient gets older, and, there- fore, if there are only one or two isolated pigmented' moles present it is best to excise them whether they are causing disfigurement or not. Hairy pigmented moles on the face are very unsightly, and should be cleanly and completely excised wherever possible. Even in the most extensive cases, excision followed by immediate skin-grafting will give a very good result. When grafting in these cases it is important to try to cut one single graft broad enough to completely cover the raw surface, as otherwise the lines of junction of different grafts may be a source of subsequent disfigure- ment. When there is a very large hairy mole, whose size forbids excision, for instance on the forehead, the plan suggested by Mr. Horsley may be put into practice \vith great benefit. A flap containing the mole is turned downwards, and then the deeper part is shaved away until the hair follicles are completely removed. The flap can then be replaced and no further growth of hair will occur ; the pigmentation of course remains. PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS TUMOUR.—This is a form of fibrous tumour involving a nerve trunk or one of its branches. It is generally very small, intensely tender to the slightest touch, and sometimes, apart from pressure, gives rise to neuralgic pain, which radiates from the point where the tumour is situated towards the periphery of the limb, and may be accompanied by muscular spasm. Treatment.—Where it is diagnosed and localized, the treatment is to extirpate the tumour; but usually these patients become highly neurotic, and it is necessary in addition to employ treatment suitable for hysteria. Various other tumours of the skin such as angiomata, lymphan- giomata, etc., have already been referred to (see Part I., p. 264). CANCEROUS TUMOURS. These may occur under three forms, namely, Sarcoma, Rodent Ulcer and Epithelioma. SARCOMATA of the skin, with the exception of the melanotic form, are not common, and when met with must be treated on general princi- ples, viz. : complete excision, and the removal of recurrent nodules should they occur (see Part I., p. 262). RODENT ULCER begins insidiously, very often on some pre- existing lesion, such as a mole, or a scar, and leads to the formation of