231 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. but, as it would easily become completely separated if any strain were put upon it, it is well to insert one or two catgut stitches between the sides of the vertical incision at its lower end where the tendon might split, and tie them tightly, thus giving strength to the now elongated structure. If now the tendon be long enough, the flap which has been turned down should be stitched to the distal portion in the manner already de- scribed (see p. 228), the various joints of the hand and fingers being fully flexed to obviate tension. In long- standing cases it is often necessary to turn up a similar flap from the distal portion also; if this has been done it is well to make the two flaps longer than necessary so that one overlaps the other. One or two fine cat- gut stitches between the ad- jacent sides will then give an extremely satisfactory union (see Fig. 81. C). After-treatment.—This will be much the same as that already described for cases of recent injury. The wound is stitched up and healing by first intention is aimed at. The parts at first are kept fully flexed, and then the joints are gradually extended \ at the end of a fortnight active and passive movements are begun with a view of pre- venting adhesions. Greater care must of course be taken when the tendons have been lengthened, lest the flap of tendon should be torn away altogether; but that danger is to a great extent minimized by putting in lateral stitches below in the manner already described. {b) Bridging zvith catgut.-—Cases, however, occur in which this method is insufficient, and various others may be adopted. A plan which occasionally yields fairly good results when there is a long tendon en- closed in a sheath, is the following (see Fig. 82). After the ends of the tendon have been freed, they are ap- proximated as much as possible by the lateral stitches already described (see p. 228). A long piece of catgut is then taken and the needle passed backwards and forwards from one end of the tendon to the other several times, so that the gap between the Fig. 81.—Methods of approximating the divided ends OF A Tendon. The splitting off of the flap is shown in W ; in B the flap has been turned down into the interval and sutured in position. C shows a method that may be used when the gap between the divided ends is too wide to admit of the first metliod. Fig. 82.—Method of Bridging a gap be- tween THE ENDS OF A Tendon nv catgut. The lateral stitches which draw the ends together as near as possible are seen on either side. The gap between is then bridged in liycatgnt suturesasshown in the diagram; the arrows showthedirection inwhich the needle is passed.