4 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. Immediately after the operation a narrow wooden splint may be applied along the side of the finger opposite to that on which the deflection is, and the phalanx drawn outwards towards it, but as soon as the wound has healed it is best to fix the digit and the wrist in a silicate bandage, which, while very efficient, is smaller and interferes less with the movement of the rest of the hand than the wooden splint does. This casing may be split along one side and should be removed from time to time and massage Fig. 2.—Splint for Apter-Treatment of Bifid Finger. This is applied after the redundant portion of the phalanx has been removed, and is employed to bring the tip of the finger straight. The splint, which takes its purchase from the wrist, is made of metal padded, and the finger prolongation can be bent out to any required degree, so as to get a good pull upon the tip of the finger after the first phalanx has been firmly secured ; the method of applying it is shown in the figure. Additional traction on the tip of the finger can be got, if required, by inserting a thick pad between the first phalanx and the splint. and passive movement practised. This should be done at first about once a week, and oftener later, until finally it is done every day; the joint may otherwise become very stiff. About six weeks after the operation the silicate case may be left off entirely, and a suitable moulded metal splint, nicely padded, adapted to the wrist and forearm, and prolonged down to one side of the digit; to this the terminal phalanx is strapped so as to keep it in proper position (see Fig. 2). This condition affects both toes and fingers, but in the former case it does not usually cause any inconvenience, and no treatment is necessary. The presence of a web between the fingers, however, is a great disadvantage; it is unsightly, it prevents the proper separation of the digits, and it thus interferes greatly with the usefulness of the hand; moreover, fingers so united do not develop nearly so well as those which are free. In almost all cases, therefore, it is necessary to take steps to get rid of the deformity. WEBBED DIGITS.