271 TUMOURS. MALIGNANT TUMOURS.—Malignant tumours are also not un- commonly met with in connection with a nerve, but they usually involve it secondarily, either by pressing directly upon it and stretching it as they grow, or by actually invading and destroying it, as is generally the case in a carcinomatous tumour. Treatment.—For tumours that can be removed, this will be early and free removal, with the portion of the nerve implicated, followed if possible by immediate nerve-suture (see p. 251). In cases in which the tumour cannot be removed the treatment can only be directed towards the symptoms, and surgical treatment is only necessary when a sensory nerve is involved and unbearable pain is caused. Should this be the case, a portion of the nerve should be excised well above the tumour so as to prevent the trans- mission of impulses upwards. In a mixed nerve this operation, of course, entails motor paralysis of the parts supplied by the nerve, but this is of no moment, since the case must eventually end fatally; the important point is to secure a moderate amount of comfort for the patient by the relief of pain. When the tumour is situated in regions where it is difficult to expose the nerve above the seat of pressure, as for example in pelvic tumours, division of the posterior nerve roots may be carried out with advantage, the pain being thereby abolished and the patient much relieved. The operation is performed in the manner already described for the treatment of obstinate neuritis (see p. 265). OPERATIONS FOR EXPOSING THE MAIN NERVE TRUNKS IN THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The operations on the nerves of the head, neck, and trunk, will be referred to when we come to deal with the affections of those regions. In all cases where it is desired to expose a nerve, it is best if possible to make a flap, and turn it upwards, downwards, or to one side, so that the scar shall not lie over the line of the nerve itself; thus there will be no risk of entanglement of the nerve in the scar tissue. This is of course not always possible where there is already a cicatrix present. We may here give shortly the steps of the operations required for the exposure of the different main nerve trunks of the extremities. THE MEDIAN NERVE.—It may be necessary to expose this nerve, either for the purpose of stretching it or suturing it after division. In the upper arm the nerve is readily accessible from its close relation to the brachial artery, being on its outer side in the upper third of the arm, and crossing in front of the artery about the centre to its inner side, along which it runs in the lower third. In the forearm it is rarely necessary to expose the nerve, as it there lies very deep between the superficial and deep flexor muscles, and as a rule escapes injury. The commonest situation in which operations upon this nerve are required is the lower third of the forearm or the front of the wrist, where the nerve lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and the palmaris longus muscles. (a) In the Upper Arm.—In this situation the nerve is most conveniently exposed by an incision in all respects similar to that required for ligature of the brachial artery. The steps of the operation are the same and will be found described in Chap. XXI.