SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. 298 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURYSM. In connection with false or traumatic aneurysm must be considered another condition sometimes met with in which there is a communication between an artery and a vein—that known as arterio-venous aneurysm. This is also, in the great majority of cases, the result of direct injury, although instances have been met with where the communication has formed without any traumatism. There are two forms of arterio-venous aneurysm, namely, Varicose Aneurysm, in which an aneurysm (usually a false one) communicates with a neighbouring vein; and Aneurysmal Varix, in which there is a communication between an artery and a vein without any inter- mediate aneurysmal sac. The result of the communication in both cases (but most markedly in aneurysmal varix) is that arterial blood passes into the vein ; this on the one hand interferes with the return of the venous blood, and on the other renders the latter partially arterial. As a consequence of the interference with the venous return the veins below the point of communication with the artery become dilated and elongated, and practically varicose; the result of the arterialization of the venous blood, if excessive, is manifested by irregularity of the heart's action. Aneurysmal varix, beyond causing inconvenience to the patient, is not a source of any special danger, and may persist throughout Hfe without any serious results. The veins below the communication become varicose, the limb is more or less swollen, the patient experiences a disagreeable thrill in the part, and the nutrition of the limb is interfered with; there is, however, no tendency for the affection to follow the ordinary course of an aneurysm, and to end in rupture on a free surface. In varicose aneurysm, however, this tendency undoubtedly exists, although not to the same extent as in true aneurysm; the aneurysm increases in size very slowly, and may ultimately burst and lead to fatal haemorrhage. Hence, it is essential to do something for varicose aneurysm if possible, and it is advisable to treat aneurysmal varix, but in the latter case oper- ation cannot be urged as being a matter of life and death. TREATMENT. —Aneurysmal Varix. —When the communication between the artery and the vein is in an accessible region, the treatment, if a cure be desired, must be operative; the exact procedure will depend very much on the particular vessels involved. In the most usual case, namely, a communication between the brachial artery and the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, the best treatment is to ligature both the artery and vein immediately above and below the point of com- munication (see Fig. 96, A). In this way, even without opening and dis- secting out the communicating part, the disease is completely cured. When a large vein, such as the femoral, is involved, it is sufificient to tie the artery above and below the communication, and to tie also any arterial branches which may come off between the ligatures ; the vein may be left