1 14 GENU VALGUM : GENU VARUM : GENU RECURVATUM. over the outer side of the foot and ankle, so as to press the leg inwards and keep it in good position. Another special pad must be placed in front of the knee so as to prevent flexion of the joint (see Fig. 52). After the splint has been applied the limb should be laid upon an inclined plane. Fig. 52.—Limb put up in Splint after Osteotomy for Genu Valgum. The large pad (a) over the inner condyle on the one side, and the two thick ones (6 and c) over the outer malleolus and the great trochanter respectively, on the other side, are shown. The large pad over the front of the knee to prevent flexion is not shown, while, for the sake of clearness, the dressing to the osteotomy wound has been omitted. In about a week or ten days the dressing may be taken off, the stitches removed, a collodion dressing applied, and the limb put up in a plaster of Paris or silicate bandage. In small children, and in any case where there is much curvature of the femur, it is well to continue the bandage up around the pelvis, as otherwise the casing may fail to get a sufficient hold upon the thigh. After about six weeks, union will generally be firm and the splint rriay be left off, but the child should be kept in bed for two or three weeks longer, and allowed gradually to recover the full range of movement in the knee. During this time the leg should be massaged and rubbed, so as to improve the circulation and the tone of the muscles. Walking may be per- mitted in about ten weeks, and, should the ricketty condition of the bone have completely passed off, no further apparatus will be required. When the osteotomy has been done upon a young adult in whom there is some doubt as to whether or not the bones have become firmly consolidated, it is well for the patient after the operation to wear one or other of the forms of apparatus which are usually employed to exert mechanical pressure upon the deformity ; Fig. 53.—Outside Irons for use this generally consists of an outside iron AFTER Operation for Genu Val- - j 1 • u „J ..u_ u„„l „f GUM IN Adults. {Erichsen). fastened to the pelvis above and the heel ot the boot below, and furnished with hinges opposite the hip, knee, and ankle joints (see Fig. 53); there is also generally a band or sling which tends to draw the knee outwards against the iron.