CHAPTER XV. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. ATROPHY. Atrophy of muscles arises from a variety of causes, and is usually due to defective innervation, such as occurs after division of a motor nerve, central paralysis or peripheral neuritis. Atrophy is also a common sequel to disuse of muscles, and this condition may result from direct injuries, such as blows, when the atrophy is due to haemorrhage into the substance of the muscle, or to damage to the nerve supplying it. It also occurs in the muscles in the neighbourhood of joints which are the seat of either tuberculous or rheumatic disease, and in these cases it proceeds more rapidly and completely than can be accounted for by mere disuse of the articulation. After atrophy has gone on for some time, the muscle tends to shrink, and thus the tendons become tight, and may require division before proper restoration of movement can be obtained. TREATMENT.—This will of course depend upon the cause of the atrophy. When it is due to some central nervous derangement very little can be done, except to promote the nutrition of the muscles; when it results from division of the nerves supplying the muscles, nerve suture must be practised. When it occurs in connection with joint disease, the atrophy will persist until the condition of the joint so far improves that its move- ments can be freely carried out. If it occur after an injury causing haemorrhage into the muscles, the sooner the effused blood is got rid of the better will the functions of the muscle be restored. Massage.—Although the first point in the treatment of this condition is to find out the cause of the atrophy, and, if possible, to remedy it, a good deal may often be done in the way of preventing it, or at any rate of checking its spread and hindering the shrinking of the muscle whilst the cause is being treated; the most useful methods for this purpose are manipulations, massage, and electricity. The principles of massage have already been mentioned (see Part I., p. 22); the object of the massage here is not to remove effused materials, but to improve the circulation in