289 VARICOSE VEINS. saphena vein is apt to become detached by the movements of the patient, and, therefore, after the gauze dressing has been applied, the skin around is dried, and a piece of dry gauze one layer thick is laid over the dressing and the skin around and fixed down by collodion. Outside this some more dressing is applied in the ordinary manner. After-treaiment.—The dressings are left unchanged for about ten days. At the end of that time the stitches may be removed, collodion dressings applied, and the limb replaced on the splint, which should be kept on for about three weeks. The patient should not be allowed to get up until about three weeks have elapsed, in case thrombosis should have occurred above the ligatures, when there will be a risk of detachment of clots if he begins to move about too soon. If both legs be affected, it is exceedingly irksome to the patient to have the two limbs put upon splints at the same time; therefore, if the aftection be very marked in both limbs, it is best to operate upon one at a time, the second operation being done about ten days or a fortnight after the first. This has the additional advantage that if many veins have to be excised, the length of time occupied by the operation is materially shortened. The operation is generally tedious, and it is not uncommon for it to last upwards of an hour upon each leg. If, on the other hand, the affection be only slight, and very few veins have to be removed, or if it be severe in one limb and very slight in the other, both may be operated upon at once,, and if the affection be very limited no splint need be applied, the Hmb being merely enveloped in a thick mass of cotton wool, which will hinder the move- ment of the knee; the limb may be kept steady, if necessary, by being placed between sandbags with a sheet or towel over it. If one limb be affected badly and the other only slightly, a splint may be put upon the bad limb, and the other treated as above. When the patient gets up it is well to apply a bandage from the foot upwards to support the veins, but this should, in the first instance, be simply an ordinary cotton or flannel bandage, and not an elastic one; it should be put on before getting up in the morning. When the varicosity has not been very marked, and the affected veins have been almost completely extirpated, this bandage may be left off after three or four weeks and no further apparatus is necessary; where, on the other hand, the operation has only been to a certain extent palliative, that is to say, where the varicosity is very extensive and all the veins have not been dealt with, it is advisable to order a light elastic stocking or bandage to be worn in the manner to be described below. After these operations, massage and exercises designed to improve the nutrition of the muscles should be practised, and the patient should be strongly warned against prolonged standing, lifting heavy weights, and so forth; active exercise, walking, bicycling, etc., should not be prohibited, however, provided it be not carried to excess. The bowels should be kept ' well opened. Numerous other methods of dealing with varicose veins by operation have PT. II. T