2l6 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS. (3) Acute serous teno-synovitis may follow the dry form, or may be synovitis with effusion from the first. It is, perhaps, most commonly met with in gonorrhoeal arthritis, and also in cases of ordinary rheumatism, and it more epecially affects the extensor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor of the thumb, the peronei, and the tibial tendons. Symptoms.—The disease is characterized, as a rule, by pain, by interfer- ence with movement, and (especially in the gonorrhoeal form) by redness and cedema of the skin. It usually gets well, but, as the fluid becomes absorbed, there is a tendency to the formation of adhesions, although not to the same extent as in the plastic form. Treatment.—The treatment consists of rest and fomentations^ followed by the employment of massage and movement. If the extensor tendons of the fingers be affected, the hand should be placed on a splint, with a pad in the hollow of the palm, and the fingers not quite fully extended. In the first place, the splint may extend as far as the tips of the fingers, but, as soon as the effusion begins to disappear, the splint should be shortened down to the transverse crease of the palm, so as to allow a certain amount of play to the fingers. During the acute stages, warm fomentations should be employed with a little laudanum sprinkled over them if there be much pain (see Part I., p. 12). As the fluid becomes absorbed and the acute stage passes off, compression by means of a mass of cotton wool (see Part I., p. 21) should be used. As soon as the effusion has disappeared, active and passive move- metit of the fingers must be employed and massage carefully carried out. Even with massage it is necessary to be careful, because if it be too vigorous, it may lead to a recurrence of the trouble; it should at any rate be tried, and may do a great deal of good. (4) Suppurative teno-synovitis.—This condition is usually traumatic, and follows upon wounds involving tendon sheaths, or tenotomies that have become septic. It may also occur in scarlet fever, in pyaemia, etc., but it is most often secondary to inflammation of the surrounding parts, as in the case of a whitlow, especially one affecting the thumb or the little finger, where there is direct extension of the septic material along the sheath of the tendon. In these cases the inflammation is usually very violent, and suppuration occurs early. When the condition is very acute the tendon generally sloughs, while in less acute cases the tendon sheath and the tendon itself become covered with granulations, which subsequently lead to the formation of firm adhesions. After a time the sheath gives way, an abscess forms outside it, and the inflammation may spread to neighbouring bones or joints. Treatment.—In a case of suppurative teno-synovitis the sooner the sheath is laid freely open the better; in fact, in the very acute form early incisioti presents the only chance of preserving the vitality of the tendon. If the opening of the abscess be delayed, the tendon will certainly slough, and irretrievable damage will result; as soon, therefore, as the condition is recognized, free incisions should be made into the tendon sheath, the pus washed out with a 1-4000 sublimate solution, and a drainage tube intro-