INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 215 but crepitation is not marked. From a very early stage there is consider able interference with the free movements of the tendons in their sheaths; even when the disease has lasted only two or three days it may be found that, on attempting to move the fingers, numerous soft adhesions give way, even though very slight force be employed. Later on these become organized, and increased force is required to break them down, while the power of spontaneous movement is lost. Treatment.—The treatment requires great patience and endurance both on the part of the patient and the surgeon, while the ultimate result is not always as satisfactory as could be wished. From the earliest stage care must be taken to prevent the formation of adhesions, and to put the limb in such a position that if adhesions do form they can be readily broken down. For example, when the flexor tendons of the hand are affected, the hand must be in a condition of semi-flexion, because if the fingers be kept extended on a splint, passive flexion of the fingers would not help to break down the adhesions. In dealing with the hand, the best plan is to keep it in a sling, or, if the patient be confined to bed, to lay it on a pillow with the metacarpus well thrown back, and to leave the position of the fingers, at first at any rate, to nature; they will be found to assume a position of semi-flexion. At the same time, during the acute stage of the inflammation, warm fomentations should be applied. Important as rest is in acute inflammatory conditions, it must not be persevered with too long in these cases. At the end of a week at latest, passive movement of the fingers should be practised at least once a day, so as to break up the adhesions which are in process of formation; the patient should also be encouraged to move the fingers for himself Unfortunately both active and passive motion cause intense pain, but despite this they must be vigorously persevered with. As soon as the acuteness of the inflammation has passed off" (as evidenced by the disappearance of tenderness on pressure) massage should be employed to promote absorption of the plastic material, while the passive and active motions should be continued. At this stage the patient can do a great deal for himself by moving the affected fingers to their fullest extent with the unaffected hand, and by trying to carry out active movement. The surgeon himself should also move the fingers completely in all directions once a day, and in this way the formation of adhesions can generally be kept under. Where the patient is seen at a later period, and firm adhesions have formed, they should be broken down under an anaesthetic (nitrous oxide is generally sufficient) once, or even twice a week if the procedure does not produce very strong reaction; in the interval, massage, passive movement, and faradism to the muscle should be employed every day. In this way, a fairly satisfactory result may be obtained in some cases if the adhesions are not numerous. In the majority, however, whilst a certain amount of im- provement will result, it is, unfortunately, by no means complete.