252 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. After-treatment.—The wound is then closed, and, if necessary, a drainage tube may be inserted, while the limb is fixed in a position that ensures the least possible tension upon the stitches. For instance, when a nerve has been divided on the front of the wrist, the fingers, the wrist, and the elbow should be fully flexed, and kept steady in that position by a suitably moulded posterior splint. This position should be maintained for about ten days, at the end of which time the dressings may be removed, the stitches taken out, and a small collodion dressing applied. In addition to this, active and passive movements of the finger joints should be practised, care being taken not to carry them to such an extent as to pull upon the divided ends of the nerve; the flexion of the fingers and wrists may then be somewhat relaxed. During the following week the fingers may be still further extended, and they may be left out of the splint so that the patient can move them for himself. In about six weeks' time the splint may be left off altogether, and massage and electricity to the muscles should then be vigorously employed. The patient must be warned that the recovery of function after division of a nerve is often slow, but, as we have already said, there is no need to despair of a successful result even when as long as two years have elapsed after the operation. Cases in wMch Cicatrization of the Wound has taken place.—Here a considerable time must necessarily have elapsed since the occurrence of the injury, and the treatment appropriate for the condition consists in what is known as "secondary nerve-suture," in contradistinction to the method of "primary nerve-suture" that we have just described. Secondary nerve-suture.—The first part of the operation consists in finding and preparing the divided ends, a task which is not always easy. The dissection is greatly facilitated if the part be rendered completely bloodless, and therefore, whenever the operation is being performed upon one of the nerves of the extremities, an Esmarch's bandage should be employed (see Part I., p. 129). After the bandage has been applied, an incision is made directly over the line of the nerve. Should the scar of the old wound lie in the position of this incision, the cicatricial tissue must be divided as the incision is deepened; should it, however, lie well to one side of the line of the nerve, it is a good plan to make a curved incision with the convexity to one side, and thus to raise a flap, as this gives better access than does a simple straight incision immediately over the nerve trunk. The most satisfactory method for exposing the divided ends is in the first place to identify the sound nerve above the proximal end. This, of course, can be cut down upon and found by means of the ordinary anatomical guides, and when the nerve trunk is thus identified it is easily traced down until the bulbous divided end is reached. The identification of the distal portion is, however, a more difficult matter. An attempt should in the first place be made to expose the nerve below the point of section by using the ordinary anatomical guides, and this may