165 CANCEROUS TUMOURS. be applied by means of a glass brush to the surface, but, used in this way, its action is very slight and a much better method is to convert the pure acid into a paste by mixing it with one-third of its weight of powdered asbestos and spreading this with a glass rod or spatula over the sore. The after-treatment is the same as when chloride of zinc is used. EPITHELIOMA.—Two forms of this affection are met with in the skin, namely, the flat superficial form and the tuberous variety. The flat epithelioma is a superficial hardness of the skin, a kind of parchment induration usually beginning in an old sebaceous nodule or a small mole, and generally occurring in old people. It is not particularly malignant, and may exist for a considerable time before enlargement of the glands takes place. Treatment.—This is particularly satisfactory; by excising the in- durated area, the disease is generally put a stop to, and, as the incision thus made is quite small, a few stitches generally suffice to bring the cut edges together. As a matter of fact, excision should be at once practised in old people who come with any enlarging nodule about the face, especially an old sebaceous patch or a mole that has existed for many years and has recently begun to increase in size. It will generally be found, under the microscope, that the nodule is epitheliomatous, but that the epithelioma is limited to the surface of the skin. The tuberous epitheliomata are much more malignant, and give rise, at a comparatively early stage, to infection of the glands. They must, of course, be excised, and the extent of the operation will depend on the situation of the growth; a description of the operations will therefore be left until we come to deal with the regions in which they occur. The glands, if enlarged, should also be excised. The question of interest is whether the nearest lymphatic glands should be removed at the first operation. The condition here is different from that of the axilla, where we have only to do with a single group of glands; with the cases under consideration, it is not always easy to be sure which glands will enlarge first, and therefore, unless the glands be obviously enlarged, the best treatment is for the surgeon to content himself with excising the primary growth. The glands should be subsequently cleared out as soon as any enlargement is noticed. One other point is also of importance, namely, whether it is necessary to excise the lymphatic vessels and fat, lying between the primary tumour and the glands, as is so strongly to be recommended in breast cancer. It seems, however, that in most cases of the kind which we are now considering, it is not necessary. The lymphatic vessels very seldom become infected in their course from the primary tumour to the glands. Why this should be so is not very clear, but it is a clinical fact and the condition differs from that in breast cancer, where the lymphatic vessels become infected very early.