SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 276 least twenty-four hours, in order to prevent the occurrence of haemorrhage. When the vein is divided completely or almost completely across, a ligature should be put around it above and below the seat of injury. If only the distal end, from which the blood comes, be tied, it is frequently found that coughing or some sudden movement will force out blood from the proximal end; in the case of the larger veins in the neck, another reason for tying the proximal end of the vein is to prevent the risk of entrance of air into it. This would otherwise be very likely to occur, as there is considerable aspiration during each act of inspiration, and the veins are rigid where they pass through the openings in the deep cervical fascia and do not collapse properly. An additional reason for tying large veins when they are divided, is that the pressure which may be exerted upon the vein between the wound and the heart by the bandage put on to retain the dressings in position may interfere with the return of the blood and lead to serious haemorrhage from the open distal end; as soon as the bandage is removed this bleeding will cease. This point should be borne in mind in cases of secondary or reactionary haemorrhage, because it is very seldom nowadays that bleeding of this kind is arterial; as a rule it will be found that when the dressing is removed the bleeding stops, and it is well therefore not to be in too great a hurry to open up a bleeding wound after the dressing has been taken off, unless it be quite certain that active arterial haemorrhage persists in spite of its removal. In some cases, when the vein is deeply seated and it is impossible to get a ligature around it, a pair of pressure forceps applied and left ifi situ for from 24 to 36 hours will satisfactorily arrest the bleeding without causing any material disturbance in the healing of the wound. The latter should be stitched up, except immediately around the forceps, and at this spot a stitch is passed through the edges of the wound, but is left untied. The whole wound, including the handles of the forceps, is then enclosed in an antiseptic dressing, and at the end of from 24 to 36 hours, according to the size of the vein, the dressing is removed and the forceps taken off. The removal of the forceps must be effected most carefully; otherwise the vein may be torn open again. The catch of the forceps should be undone without any lateral movement, the blades then gently separated and with- drawn from the wound. The stitch previously passed and left loose should then be tied, and there will not be any further trouble. When a large vein has only been punctured, or when a branch has been torn off at its junction with the main vessel, it is often a question as to what is the best thing to do. In the case of one of the large veins of the neck, such as the internal jugular, the simplest plan is to tie the vein above and below the puncture and divide the vessel between the ligatures; this causes no embarrassment to the circulation. When, however, the vein is one, such as the femoral, the axillary high up, or the renal vein, which it is not desirable to occlude owing to the great interference with the circulation which would result, some other procedure must be adopted. The favourite method is