SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. to permit of the introduction of one blade of a pair of sharp-pointed scissors. The operation is quite painless; a small antiseptic dressing should be applied to prevent the occurrence of suppuration beneath the nail. FOREIGN BODIES lodged beneath the nail should be removed at once, because they not only cause much pain at the time, but are very apt to lead to suppuration, and possibly irregular destruction of the matrix and consequent deformity of the nail. After extraction of the foreign body it is always a good plan to snip away the portion of the nail beneath which it lay by means of a sharp-pointed pair of scissors, and then to apply a small boracic fomentation for 24 hours. Unless this be done there is considerable danger of septic trouble, as, should the wound suppurate, there is little chance of the septic products escaping freely. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. ONYCHIA.—The most important affections of the nails are those which are grouped together under the name onychia. This term is applied to infiammations of the soft parts around the nail, or of the matrix beneath it; there are several forms of onychia. Acute traumatic onychia is the ordinary inflammatory condition under, or at the side of, a nail, which is usually caused by the presence of a foreign body, as for example a splinter of wood. This is followed by suppuration, and small collections of pus form under the nail and open in front or at the side of it, and the result may be that the nail is lost. Treatment.—The foreign body must, of course, be removed at once if it can be recognized, but if not, the pus should be evacuated by gently detaching the nail from the matrix until the abscess is reached, and then clipping away the detached portion. This can sometimes be done by freezing with a local anaesthetic such as anestile, but when the affection is too painful for this, a general anaesthetic, such as nitrous oxide, should be employed. When the small drop of pus is evacuated, and the nail over it cut away, the inflammation quickly ceases under the application of wet boracic dressings (see Part I., p. 48). The affected portion of the matrix will recover, and the nail will grow quite well afterwards. Ingrowing Toe-nail.—A second form of onychia which gives rise to a great deal of trouble is that known as lateral onychia, or as it is com- monly called, from the fact that it exclusively affects the toe, "ingrowing toe-nail." In this condition there is inflammation of the matrix and skin at the side of the nail, generally on the outer side of the great toe. It usually occurs in young male adults of the working class, who have much walking to do, who do not keep the feet clean, who wear badly-fitting boots, and cut the great toe nail so short that it does not project beyond the soft parts. The result is that the nail is pressed down and irritates the lateral fissure or, what comes to the same thing, the soft parts of the toe