WEBBED DIGITS. 9 fingers is of course complete, and there is then a flap attached to each of the separated fingers, formed partly by the skin of the front or back of the corresponding fingers respectively, and partly by half the thickness of the web between them; the base of these flaps is on the palmar surface of one finger, and on the dorsal of the other. The flaps are then wrapped round the side of the finger and stitched in place, the one along the back, the other along the front. It is but seldom, however, that the flaps can be made of sufficient length to actually meet the line of incision in front or behind, and generally an interval, sometimes even a considerable one, is left between the edge of the flap and the edge of the skin to which theoretically it should be stitched. In these intervals the fat protrudes, and ultimately a narrow line of granulation tissue forms; this contracts, and may give rise to considerable deformity. In order to obtain as rapid healing of the raw surface as possible, skin-grafts, cut by Thiersch's method (see Part I., p. 50), should be laid on it at the time of the operation, but in this operation, as in the one referred to in the Jast paragraph, the grafts do not prevent the occurrence of a certain, and in some cases a considerable, amount of contraction. The final outcome of the operation is generally that in one finger the result is perfect, while in the other it is not so good. The one that has the palmar flap is usually quite satisfactory, as the narrow scar which forms along the dorsum of the finger does not interfere with movement; the patient can always flex the finger, and thus any undue contraction is prevented. On the other hand, the finger which has the dorsal flap, and in which the line of the cicatrix lies along the palmar surface, generally becomes contracted, the narrow scar causing flexion of the finger, and consequently an imperfect result. This tendency of the finger which has the dorsal flap to become contracted must be carefully borne in mind, and in order to remedy it as far as possible, skin-grafting should be employed over any portion that is left raw, and besides this, a splint must be worn for a long time, so as to keep the finger extended and prevent contraction. The best splint (see Fig. 7) is one applied to the dorsal surface, taking purchase from the lower part of the forearm and back of the hand; opposite the knuckles there is a single prolongation extending downwards along the back of the finger, and to this the latter is strapped. This splint should be worn day and night, being only left off at intervals to permit of passive movement; at the end of a couple of months it may be left off during the day, but it should be worn at night for at least six months, and generally for about a year. In spite of the splint there is a strong tendency to the formation of a cicatricial ridge along the palmar surface of one finger and consequent contraction. * When several fingers are united it is well to separate only two fingers at a time, and to allow some weeks, or even months, to elapse before proceeding to separate a second pair. There is a distinct advantage in doing the operation at as early an age as possible, because the webbing I