CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. got below Ndlaton's line, an attempt is made at the same sitting to introduce the head of the bone into the acetabulum. The obstacles to this procedure have already been indicated; they are mainly, that the acetabulum is only represented by a mere cleft of the bone, that the head of the femur is flattened and too large to enter it, and that the anterior part of the capsule covers in the acetabulum, and is very often adherent to it. It is, of course, impossible to enlarge the acetabulum or to alter the shape of the head of the femur at the first sitting, but it is possible to peel off the capsule from the front of the former, and thus to a certain extent to enlarge the acetabular cavity anteriorly. The object of the second series of manipulations (which should be carried out immediately after the first) is, therefore, to open up the acetabulum as much as possible, by detaching the anterior part of the capsule from its surface, and to place the head of the femur in such a position that the portion which is not flattened shall be applied to the cleft Fig. 63.—LoiJENz's Non-oi'ERative Method for Congenital Dislocation of THE Hip. Second Stage. The limb is rotated outwards and abducted to its fullest degree after the head has been brought down over the acetabulum. The adductors require much kneading by the surgeon's fingers, as is shown in the drawing. The hip joint is also fully extended. in the innominate bone. The perineal bands and the pulleys are therefore removed, and first of all the hip joint should be thoroughly fle.xed when, by pushing the limb downwards, the head of the bone can generally be brought down opposite the acetabulum; this procedure serves to relax the front part of the capsule, and thereby to increase the opening into the acetabulum. Next, the limb, which is still in the state of full flexion, should be rotated outwards so as to direct the head of the femur almost directly forwards. In order to get the head of the bone into the acetabulum it is clear that the limb must be in a position such that the head and neck are directed towards the middle line, and this can only be done by abducting the limb to its fullest possible extent. The abduction