207 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. be recognized in recent fractures, there is the further advantage in early operation that the bones can be placed in good position, and fixed by pegs or screws. This question will be dealt with more fully under the treatment of Fractures (Part III.). Hernia of muscles.—This is a rare accident; in it the fascia surrounding the muscle is torn, and the belly of the muscle protrudes through the opening, and becomes adherent to its edges. The affection is recognized by the presence, in the course of the muscle, of a localized lump of a soft character which moves when the muscle contracts; the hole in the fascia can also be felt. The condition sometimes gives rise to pain and a certain difficulty in the action of the muscle; in some cases the disability is so great that the patient is compelled to seek surgical advice. Treatment.—Under these circumstances the clear indication is to cut down upon and reduce the hernia of the muscle by separating the adhesions between it and the hole in the fascia, and to attempt to bring the torn portion of the fascia together again. If the slit be vertical the result is very satisfactory; when it is a transverse tear, however, union is not so easily effected. The usual curved incision should be made over the herniated portion and a flap turned aside. The muscular fibres and the fascia are de- fined, and the latter separated from the muscle. The herniated portion is then pushed back, and if the fascia be sufficiently loose, an attempt should be made to close the opening with stitches. In any case it should be sewn together as closely as possible with a con- tinuous catgut suture, and, if the edges do not come quite closely together, the bands of catgut crossing the space will probably be sufficient to retain the belly of the muscle in position till new connective tissue has formed (see Fig. 76). Active movements should be practised as soon as possible, and if necessary the faradic current should be used in order to cause contraction of the muscle, and thus prevent it from adhering to the edge of the opening in the fascia. Fig. 76.—Method of treating A Herniated Muscle. The figure shows diagrammatically the manner in which, when the torn edges of the fascia cannot be ac- curately sutured together, the gap can be closed by bridging it with catgut after the hernia of the muscle has been reduced. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Myositis or inflammation of muscle may be either acute or chronic; the acute form may be circumscribed or diffuse, suppurative or non- suppurative. ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED MYOSITIS may be primary or