INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. ■83 Treatment.—This is somewhat difficult, and has already been referred to (see Part I., p. 240). In the early stages when the inflammation is not very acute, compressioti is the best means to employ. A large pad of cotton wool is laid over the inflamed glands, and kept in place by a firm spica bandage, outside which a piece of elastic webbing is applied so as to exercise gentle pressure. The patient should of course be kept in bed or in the recumbent position on a couch, and the primary sore should be treated on the lines laid down in Part I., Chapter XIII. In some cases the condition will subside entirely under this treatment. When the affection is progressive, however, the question as to what further procedure is the best is somewhat hard to answer. Bearing in mind the obstinacy of the ulcer which follows free incision of these abscesses, and also the fact that fresh glands are apt to enlarge, and thus lead to the formation of ulcerating cavities in the groin, it is advisable, as soon as it is evident that softening of the glands is about to occur, to excise the affected gland, and, with it, any others in its vicinity that may be enlarged. If, in excising the mass, great care be taken not to come too near to the infected gland, and more especially to avoid puncturing it, it is not uncommon for the wound to heal by first intention, and thus the patient is saved a prolonged and tedious illness. When the glands are not adherent to the skin, a semi-lunar flap, consist- ing of skin and fascia, may be raised, but if the skin be at all thinned, or even reddened, the affected portion should be included in an oval incision and removed, care being taken to keep wide of the glands. The incision should be carried through the fat in the groin above and below the affected area, and the whole mass of fat and glands is removed without the latter being exposed. It is generally well to insert a drainage tube for two or three days. Injections of carbolic acid, or similar antiseptic substances, into the glands at an early stage are not to be recommended. On the other hand, if there be a large abscess when the case is first seen, excision of the glands is not advisable; firstly, because the affection is wide-spread, and a very extensive dissection would be required; and, secondly, because there is a great probability of the abscess bursting during the operation, and thus infecting the whole of the large wound. It is best, under these circumstances, to open up the bubo, and this should be done by as small an incision as possible. Experiments on the organism that causes soft chancre show that it is essentially aerobic : climcally also, so long as the skin is unbroken over one of the glandular abscesses, the condition progresses comparatively slowly; but as soon as the interior is freely exposed to the air, there is very rapid formation of a large chancroid ulcer. Hence, in dealing with these abscesses, the access of the air to the interior should be hindered as far as possible. Two methods may be employed, the first being more to be recommended in the early stages. In both, the operation must be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions, the area of operation, the hands, instru- ments, etc., being rigidly sterilized. (i) A small incision should be made into the abscess, sufficient to admit