208 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. secondary. As a primary affection it is usually met with in young people, chiefly in males, and is attributed principally to over-work of the muscles or to cold; most probably, however, it is either of traumatic or infective origin. When it occurs secondarily it may be an extension from a wound, or may follow inflammation in the vicinity. Acute myositis may be either hyperplastic or suppurative. (a) The acute hyperplastic form.—In the hyperplastic form, which is much the more common, the muscle becomes hard and friable, the fibres gradually disappearing and fibrous tissue taking their place; the final result of the condition is sclerosis of the muscle. The affection occurs very often in the neighbourhood of suppurative inflammations, for example near glandular abscesses; it may also be the result of rheumatism. Treatment.—The treatment of the hyperplastic form is first of all to remove the cause if possible. If it occur secondarily to abscesses or inflammations in the vicinity, the abscesses should be opened and treated appropriately, and the necessary measures taken for the treatment of the adjacent inflammatory condition. In cases where there is primary non- suppurative inflammation of the muscle itself, a rheumatic tendency may generally be suspected, and salicylate of soda in lo-grain doses every four or six hours may be administered; given in milk it is quite a palatable drug. At the same time hot fomentations or india-rubber hot-water bottles should be applied over the part, and this will usually very soon relieve the pain; more rarely, the pain may be acute enough to call for the administration of morphine. As soon as the acuter symptoms have passed off, and the patient can bear it, massage should be employed to get rid of the exuded material as quickly as possible, and so to avoid a permanent sclerosis of the muscle. (b) The acute suppurative form.—The suppurative form very rarely occurs as a primary condition; it is usually due to the extension of sup- puration from the neighbourhood. When multiple abscesses occur in muscles we have generally to do with pyaemia or glanders, and the suppuration is due to the deposit of micro-organisms. If it be a diffuse myositis,—a condition corresponding to diffuse cellulitis,—it generally arises in connection with a septic wound. Apart from pyagmia the affection is said to occur idiopathically in certain muscles, the most common of which is the psoas. This condition is very rare, and its pathology, that is to say, the reason why the inflammation should locate itself in the psoas muscle, is obscure; but, quite apart from suppuration in glands, or from disease of the vertebrae and so forth, acute suppuration is sometimes met with in connection with the psoas in which no extraneous origin can be traced, and which may be spoken of as acute psoitis. Treatment.—The treatment of acute suppurative myositis consists in free incision into the abscess, and thorough drainage of the cavity in the manner already described for the treatment of acute abscess (see Part I., Chap. I.).