CLUB-FOOT. 82 the tendo Achillis is of great value as forming a point (Tappui^ which fixes the posterior half of the foot and permits the proper unfolding of the anterior part. If the tendo Achillis be divided at the same time as the other structures, the greatest difficulty will be found in unfolding the anterior part of the foot from the want of such a fixed point. Tenotomy.—The first stage in the treatment therefore consists in dividing all the various tight structures, with the exception of the tendo Achillis. In the first place, the tibiales tendons which interfere with the proper reposition of the foot must be divided, and in bad cases the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum will also require division. Division of the tibialis anticus tendon.—The tibialis anticus tendon is usually divided just below the point where it crosses the ankle joint, and a little above its insertion into the internal cuneiform bone; at this point there is no risk of dividing any other structure. The position of the tendon can usually be defined by making it tense, which is done by abducting and everting the foot. A tenotomy knife is inserted on one side, close to the tendon, which should be relaxed so as to allow the knife to be insinuated between it and the skin. The cutting edge is then turned towards the tendon, which is again put upon the stretch by abducting and everting the foot, and is divided. Division of the tibialis posticus tendon.—The tibialis posticus tendon is best divided through an open incision from one and a half to two inches above the internal malleolus, and immediately behind it. It is well, instead of cutting directly downwards on to the tendon, to turn aside a con- vex flap so as to avoid any risk of adhesion of the tendon to the cicatrix m the skin. A slightly curved incision is therefore made along the internal border of the tibia, with its convexity forwards, and the flap, con- taining skin and fascia, is turned back until the edge of the tibia is exposed; just behind it will be found the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum. The former tendon lies next the bone and a blunt pointed tenotomy knife can be readily insinuated between it and that of the flexor longus digitorum. The knife is then turned towards the bone and the tendon of the tibialis divided. Should it be found that there is still some obstacle to abducting the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum may also be cut across; this, however, should be done on a different level to the division of the tibialis posticus. The wound is stitched up without a drainage tube and antiseptic dressings applied. Division of the plantar fascia.—The plantar fascia if contracted must next be divided. This is necessary in many cases, and should be done just in front of the origin of the fascia from the os calcis. A tenotomy knife is introduced from the inner side of the foot, and carried across the sole between the skin and the fascia; it is important to remember that the skin is very close to the fascia, and that all resisting bands must be divided. As soon as one band is cut across, extension made upon the sole causes others to