SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. bed. The edges of the skin can then be brought together by two or three fine horsehair stitches, care being taken not to allow the thin edges of the skin to become inverted. DERMOID CYSTS. These tumours have already been referred to (Part I., p. 272). They are very frequently met with in the subcutaneous tissues about the angles of the orbits or in the neck, in connection with imperfectly obliterated branchial clefts. The lining wall of the cyst closely resembles normal skin in structure, and is furnished with sebaceous glands, and often with distinct follicles bearing hairs. The contents of the cyst is generally a thick pultaceous material often containing masses of hair and sometimes teeth or even bone. They are not adherent to the skin unless they have been subjected to irritation, and they often extend deeply between muscles and other structures. Treatment.—Complete excision is the only method likely to be successful; unless the entire wall be removed the cyst will invariably re-form, or a persistent sinus will result. When they are adherent to the skin a portion of this structure must also be excised. Dermoids are usually quite easily separated from the surrounding structures, but when they run deeply amongst muscles, etc., the dissection required for their complete removal is often tedious and difficult; this point will be referred to again when we deal with cysts of the neck. In these latter cases especially the most strict regard must be paid to asepsis; any failure in that respect may entail the most serious results. FIBROMATA. These tumours of the skin may occur either in the form of dense, hard fibromata, or, more commonly, as the soft pedunculated variety on the surface of the skin. The soft fibromata may be solitary, but are usually multiple—the condition known as moUuscum fibrosum. MOLLUSCUM FIBROSUM.—In this there are soft pedunculated pendulous tumours, which form small tags or large masses. Sometimes the whole body may be more or less covered with these growths; some- times only a few large pendulous masses may be present. They are not dangerous to life, but they are often unsightly; sometimes they get abraded and become the starting point of some septic trouble, and give rise to a great deal of pain. Treatment.^—When the pendulous masses are solitary they may be simply snipped off, and a collodion dressing put over the small wound left. When the body is more or less covered with them, it is obviously inadvisable to remove them all; only those which are situated where they cause inconvenience should be snipped off. When pendulous masses are present, a wedge-shaped portion may be cut out, or even the whole mass may be excised, according to its size and