187 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. asepsis be not rigidly enforced. Where it is neglected, irritation and rapid enlargement of the smaller glands already infected take place. The surgeon should never be content with merely shelling tuberculous glands out of their capsules. When the glandular abscess is very large, or when, as sometimes happens, there is a mixed infection with pyogenic organisms, an excision, practised when the case first comes under notice, would mean the removal of a large portion of the skin and would entail a very difficult dissection. In these cases it is probably best first of all to open the abscess anti- septically, to introduce a drainage tube, and to wait for the subsidence of the swelling and inflammation. It will then be found after a week or two that the greater part of the swelling has gone down and a sinus is left leading to the mass of tuberculous glands. At this stage excision of the glands may be practised with advantage, care of course being taken that the sinus is carefully dissected out at the same time (vide vifra). There is not much to be said in favour of such partial operations for tuberculous glands, as scraping with a sharp spoon. In this plan, a small incision is made over the gland, whether it be suppurating or not, and a sharp spoon is bored into it, and the cheesy material or the pus evacuated. The result is generally unsatisfactory; a certain number of cases do extremely well, and recover with a very small scar, but in the greater pro- portion a sinus is left, fresh glands enlarge, abscesses form in connection with them, and ultimately the surgeon is compelled to excise the whole of the affected area. In scraping out these tubercular glands, there is also a risk that acute tuberculosis may occur after the operation. If it be decided to employ scraping, it is well to leave the glands unopened as long as possible, so that they may become completely broken down. The surgeon may then possibly succeed in scraping away all the disease, and is not so likely to leave behind tissue that may infect the wound. In fact, most of the cases in which a good result is obtained by scraping are those in which the glands have become completely broken down by the chronic suppurative process, before operative measures are resorted to. After the glands have been scraped out, the cavity is generally filled with the glycerine and iodoform emulsion, and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Strict asepsis must be employed, and if the wound gives way, antiseptic dressings will have to be continued until healing is complete. (4) When a sinus is present.—A fourth condition is when the patient comes under notice with sinuses leading down to diseased glands. In this case also excision of the mass is the best treatment. The operation is of course rather a difficult one, but still if proper lines be followed, such as will be laid down for dealing with cases of glands in the neck, the operation can usually be completed with comparatively little trouble. It is necessary, however, to remember that there is already a septic sinus present, and, therefore, the outer end of the latter should first be thoroughly