199 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. Treatment.—Efforts should always be made to get rid of the blood as quickly as possible, and this is best done in the first place by placing the part completely at rest and afterwards by the employment of suitable massage. Massage should be begun on the second or third day after the injury, and should at first consist of gentle rubbing in the upward direc- tion twice a day, continued for about twenty minutes at a time. In a few days the other methods for breaking up the exudation (see Part I., p. 22) may also be employed. The duration of each sitting should be gradually increased up to half or three-quarters of an hour at a time, and the massage should be persisted in for at least two or three weeks. When the effusion is large and does not readily become absorbed, the best plan is to make a curved incision towards one side of the swelling, expose the muscle, turn out the clots and put in a drainage tube for two or three days. Such an operation must of course be done strictly antisep- tically on account of the danger of septic infection. As soon as the wound has healed, massage and manipulations should be employed. WOUNDS OF MUSCLES—Incised wounds of muscles are of no particular moment unless the incision runs transversely to the direction of the muscular fibres. Before the antiseptic era, however, wounds of muscles were specially dreaded, as being apt to lead to general septic infection. Punctured wounds over muscles very often do not injure the muscle at all, as it contracts, and slides out of the way, but, in some cases, the muscle is punctured and some of its fibres may be divided. Should this occur, the divided fibres retract, and may leave a large irregular gap in the muscle (see Punctured Wounds, Part I., Chap. IX.). When the incision is of considerable size and, particularly, when it is trans- verse to the direction of the muscular fibres, very considerable retraction takes place, and, unless means be taken to restore the continuity of the muscle, very serious functional disability may result. Treatment.—In the case of an incised wound involving a muscle and dividing it transversely, an attempt must be made, after thoroughly disin- fecting the wound, to bring the divided ends of the muscle together, and this is especially necessary when the wound involves the greater part of the width of the muscle. The approximation is effected by means of sutures, but this is a somewhat difficult task. If the sutures be inserted in the manner employed for interrupted stitches in the skin, it will be found that as soon as the thread is tightened, it simply separates the muscular fibres and cuts its way out. In order to avoid this, the stitch must be passed transversely across the muscle at some distance from the divided edge, and the two ends tied together in front so as to surround a mass of the muscular fibre. The suture should not be tied so tightly as to unduly constrict the included portion of muscle, but sufficiently so to prevent the portion included in the ligature from slipping through the loop. A similar stitch is then put in the other divided end, and tied in a like manner. The ends of these two stitches are then tied together firmly, and