88 CLUB-FOOT. made to a cast of the foot in its corrected position, and in some cases a suitable spring or an artificial sole to raise the outer border of the foot is requisite. Even after the lapse of this length of time it is well to put on the shoe at night for another year or so in order to prevent the possibility of the foot resuming its deformed position whilst the patient is asleep. (3) The most severe cases of deformity.—It is in the treatment of the third group of cases of talipes equino-varus that the greatest difficulty arises in practice. Here the obstacle to reduction is not merely the shortening of various soft structures about the foot, but also the more or less permanent alterations in the bones themselves. From the point of view of treatment we may divide these cases into two main groups: (A) those in which the patient is still young and the bones are soft and capable of being moulded to a certain extent, although the deformity in the osseous structures of the foot may be considerable; and (B) those in which the condition has remained untreated into adult life, and in which, therefore, the bones are fully ossified and have become firm and unyielding. In young subjects in whom the bones are still soft it is sometimes possible, even when there is marked deformity, to alter their shape and gradually to re-adjust the foot to its proper position by keeping up continuous pressure in the desired direction; this treat- ment, of course, is carried out in combination with free division of the resisting soft structures. In the more advanced cases, however, it is necessary to undertake some operative interference directly aimed at remedying the deformity of the bones. (A) The treatment of the first group of cases consists either (a) in dividing all the resisting structures subcutaneously, and forcibly restoring the foot to its proper position by wrenches,—an apparatus, designed to keep up constant pressure on the bones, being subsequently applied, so as to mould them to their natural shape; or {f3) in the performance of an open cutting operation by which all the soft structures causing the faulty position of the foot are divided, and the subsequent application of pressure in such a direction as to produce the required alteration in the shape of the bones. This latter operation is commonly known as " Phelps' operation." (a) Of these methods, the milder is, of course, i/ie forcible restoration of the foot with wrenches after all the resisting soft structures have been divided subcutaneously. This is done in the manner already described (see p. 84), and consists of tenotomy of any tight tendons, and division of the astragalo- scaphoid capsule, the plantar fascia and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, (especially the front portion), followed by forcible wrenching of the foot, so as to tear through any ligamentous structures that may have escaped division. The later treatment consists in division of the tendo Achillis and the employment of various forms of apparatus, plaster of Paris, Scarpa's shoe, etc., so as to keep up constant pressure on the foot in the right direction, and thus gradually to alter the axes