CLUB-FOOT. 90 somewhat drastic one; in order to mitigate its severity some surgeons have attempted to perform it subcutaneously by introducing the knife between the skin and the deeper parts, and then cutting everything right down to the bone. The objection to this is that the skin itself is always markedly shortened, and will not stretch; sloughing has also not infrequently occurred from the pressure of the extravasated blood beneath the skin, which is rendered unduly tense both by it and by the pressure brought to bear when the foot is forcibly straightened. The operation is more especially suitable for young children in whom the bones are still soft, and where the soft parts have contracted to such an extent that the deformity cannot be remedied by an ordinary subcutaneous division. It is not likely to be so successful in adults, or in those in whom the bone changes are extensive and permanent. (B) The operation required for the most severe cases, such, for instance, as those where the patient has been allowed to grow up with the deformity uncorrected, will necessarily be more radical, and must involve resection of some portion of the tarsus. It will depend very much on the condition of the foot whether or not operative interference should be undertaken; some of these patients become so accustomed to use the limb with the foot in the deformed position that they can walk perfectly well, and hence, consider- ing the severity of the operation, and the more or less imperfect result which may follow it, it is inadvisable to suggest operation to them. In other instances, however, there is so much pain and difficulty in walking from the formation on the outer side and dorsum of the foot of bursse, which are constantly liable to repeated attacks of inflammation, that the patient urgently demands some operative interference which is then fully justified. Amputation.—In those cases of this group, in which the exaggerated deformity is the result of infantile paralysis, and where there is almost complete uselessness of the foot, the question of amputation will arise. The answer mainly depends upon the vitaHty of the parts. In the paralytic forms the tissues are often very imperfectly nourished, ulcers are liable to form from the most trivial causes, chilblains are common, and consequently the result of extensive operations upon the skeletal structures of the foot is not at all satisfactory. It is therefore very much better under these circumstances to perform a Syme's amputation, and to fit the patient with an artificial foot, as he is then more likely to have a useful limb and to be free from trophic troubles, than after any partial operation which involves the retention of the foot. On the other hand again, in the con- genital cases in which the nutrition of the foot is good, the question of amputation will only very rarely arise; it is only called for when repeated attacks of inflammation and suppuration in the various bursas, possibly extending into the joints, have rendered the chance of remedying the condition by any form of tarsectomy very remote indeed. In such cases, however, Syme's amputation will leave the patient in a much better