269 NEURALGIA. to render life unbearable. Under these circumstances, however, it may quite legitimately be performed, and it should not be too long delayed. The ganglion should always be destroyed at the same time that the nerve root is resected. NEURALGIA. Neuralgia is a condition characterised by lancinating pain along the course of a nerve without any co-existing pathological change in the nerve itself. The affection often begins in connection with inflammation or the presence of a foreign body in the neighbourhood of the nerve, or from direct pressure upon some portion of it. The condition differs from neuritis inasmuch as in the latter disease there is an inflammatory change in the structure of the nerve, whilst in neuralgia there are no pathological changes to be found. The affection is very common in anaemic and debilitated subjects, and is frequently met with in those who are neurotic. It is also said to be due to malaria, over-exertion, shock, exposure to cold, etc. The symptoms consist mainly of paroxysmal attacks of pain of great severity, which start from one point in the distribution of the nerve and extend along its course. In the intervals between the paroxysms there may be entire absence of pain. As a rule there is no pain on pressure over the course of the nerve except when the points pressed upon are those at which the nerve passes through an opening in fascia or bone. The pain often interferes with sleep, and in this way the patient's general nutrition is impaired, but there are no trophic changes occurring in con- nection with true neuralgia. TREATMENT—The treatment of neuralgia belongs in the first instance essentially to the physician, but when medical remedies fail the surgeon is not infrequently called in. Medical treatment.—This will consist in the use of various interfial remedies to improve the patient's general condition, foremost amongst which are those employed for the treatment of ansemia. Of these the most important drugs are arsenic in increasing doses, iron, quinine, strychnine, etc. At the same time careful search must be made for any constitutional tendency which may require rectification; for instance, gout will require treatment with colchicum and other appropriate remedies; rheumatism, with salicin or salicylate of soda; and iodide of potassium will be called for when there is a syphilitic history. For the relief of the pain various external remedies will be required, of which the most important are the anodyne liniments, especially belladonna liniment; menthol and aconite are also of considerable use. Another method of relieving the pain is by the hypodermic administration of such drugs as atropine, cocaine, and morphine. A weak galvanic current may be used daily, and often gives considerable relief. The positive pole should be applied near the seat of the pain, whilst the negative is connected