8 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. just described is unsuitable, for if it were done the result would be that, while healing would be obtained at the cleft (for it is usually easy to get enough skin to form the flap to fill the cleft), a large, raw surface would be left along the side of each finger, which, if allowed to heal by granu- lation, would contract and lead to lateral bending and flexion of the fingers; the patient would finally have the fingers flexed and bent to one side, with a strong rigid scar running along the front of the finger on that side. This contraction may, to some extent, be prevented by immediate skin-grafting, a single long skin-graft being applied to the raw surface on each side, with a piece of protective over it, and the fingers being bound together and left undisturbed for ten days. The results of skin-grafting in these cases are, however, as a rule, very far from satisfactory, as some contraction Fig. 6.—Didot's Oi'Eration for Webbed Fingers. A and B show the lines of incision on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the fingers respectively. In C the flaps are raised and the union between the fingers divided ; A' and B' show the method of effecting the separation between the webbed fingers, while C illustrates a section of the two fingers as they should be when the flaps are wound round them and sutured in place. occurs in spite of it. Simple splitting and skin-grafting is therefore not a method to be recommended. {c) Didot's operation.—The operation most commonly adopted for this particular form of the affection is that known as Didot's, and is illustrated in the accompanying figure (Fig. 6). It is performed as follows: two incisions are made, one along the middle line of the dorsum of one finger, and another along the middle line of the palmar surface of the other, from a point opposite the free end of the web down to the knuckle. At each end of these two vertical incisions a transverse one is carried across to the adjacent border of the other finger, and thus two flaps are marked out; these are carefully dissected up, and, when the interval between the bones is reached, the soft structures are split into two halves, one half forming part of the posterior flap, and the other, part of the anterior. When the flaps are turned aside, the separation between the