DIVISION I-DEFORMITIES. CHAPTER I. DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES. Various deformities are met with in the fingers and toes, some of which are congenital and some acquired. Some are remediable by surgical treatment, others are not; we shall, of course, only consider those for which something can be done. Among the congenital deformities of the fingers and toes may be mentioned superfluous digits, and webbing or fusion of them. Another that is sometimes congenital and hereditary, but which is still oftener acquired, is hammer toe and the analogous condition in the little finger. Among the acquired deformities requiring mention are the various displacements of the great toe, such as hallux flexus, and more especially hallux valgus, bunion, Morton's disease or metatarsalgia, contraction of the fascia, especially of the palmar fascia (known as Dupuytren's contraction), and the deformities from cicatricial contractions after injuries, burns, etc. SUPERFLUOUS DIGITS. This is a congenital deformity which is not at all uncommon. The super- numerary digits may vary considerably in number; in some cases ten in all have been met with. The condition is usually more or less symmetrical and very frequently also it affects both hands and feet. In the foot it is commonest to find a supernumerary toe on the outer side, forming an accessory little toe. In the hand the most usual deformity is an accessory little finger, but the presence of an additional thumb is not at all infrequent. The degree of development of the supernumerary member varies very much; sometimes a complete digit is met with, that is to say, there are three distinct phalanges (or, in the case of the thumb, two) perfectly developed. It is very rarely that reduplication of a metacarpal bone also occurs, but if it does, the additional digit then articulates with the carpus or tarsus as the case may be. Generally the first phalanx of the super- numerary digit is attached to the side of the metacarpal bone, either with I'W II. A