288 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. usually irregularly, as it is tied down by bands of fibrous tissue running across it from the deep surface of the skin. These bands must be divided, and then by means of a few touches with the point of the knife the skin is raised from the dilated vein. In doing this, care must be taken not to bruise the edges of the delicate skin by holding them tightly with strong forceps ; the latter should only be used for just raising the edges of the skin, and as soon as sufficient has been liberated, the skin should be grasped between the finger and thumb, so as to avoid any undue compression of it. When the skin has thus been raised from the veins, the separation of the latter from the cellular tissue in which they lie is readily effected by means of a suitable blunt-pointed, fine dissector, (see Fig. 77). Care must be taken not to include any branches of nerves in the ligature along with the vein, or great pain may result. When the vein and all its branches have been isolated throughout the whole length of the incision, a pair of pressure forceps should be put on the upper end, another on the lower portion, and others on all the branches, the veins being pulled out of their bed, so that as much as possible is removed. The vein is then cut away between the various clamps, each separate branch tied with fine catgut and the forceps removed. A piece of gauze dripping with a 1-2000 sublimate solution is thrown over the wound, and then the next group of veins is dissected out; by proceeding to excise the remaining veins before sewing up the first wound, time is allowed for all bleeding to become permanently arrested—a very important element of success in attaining primary union in these cases. As a rule no tourniquet is used; the oozing which takes place after its removal more than counterbalances the advantages of the bloodless method by interfering with the proper union of the wound. There are, however, certain cases in which it may usefully be employed, as, for instance, when the operation is undertaken for the relief of varicose ulcer, in which the veins are adherent to the skin, and the latter is much thickened and extremely difficult to dissect off without damaging the veins. When a tourniquet is employed, a portion of the vein, with the skin lying immediately over it, may be freely excised, and the open ends of the vein picked up in the wound and secured by ligatures. When all the different masses of veins have been thus removed, the various wounds are carefully dried and their edges united with the finest silk threaded on a fine needle. If the operation be carefully done, there will be little or no blood lost, but in all cases it is important to let the wound become quite dry before it is sewn up. Care must be taken to see that the thin skin does not curl inwards during the suturing; the suture used should be the ordinary buttonhole one described in Part I., p. 158; no drainage tube is necessary. The usual cyanide gauze dressings are then applied and the limb put up on a light splint—preferably a Gooch's or Croft's splint—to prevent bending of the knee, and the whole limb should be slightly elevated. The dressing at the groin over the upper part of the