l84 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. a small flushing spoon (Barker's). The pus is allowed to escape, and the spoon (see Fig. 69) is introduced attached to an irrigator containing a 1-4000 sublimate solution. The interior of the abscess is then thoroughly flushed out, and the remains of the gland scraped away. After the cavity Fig. 69.—Barker's Flushing Spoon. This is a hollow sharp spoon which is con- nected with a reservoir of fluid by means of india-rubber tubing attached to the handle (the attachment is shown at the right-hand end of the figure). The passage of the fluid is regulated by the sliding valve seen on the upper surface. has been thoroughly cleansed, it should be emptied, and then filled with a 10% emulsion of iodoform and glycerine ^ (some use a 10% emulsion of iodoform and vaseline, liquified by heat); an antiseptic dressing is after- wards applied, no stitches at all being inserted. In some cases the wound heals without any further trouble. (2) A small incision is made, the pus evacuated, the interior scraped and washed out as before, and then sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. A small drainage tube is inserted, and antiseptic dressings are applied. The subsequent treatment, as regards dressings and drainage tube, is the same as in acute abscess. If the wound tend to enlarge and become chancrous, it must be laid freely open, all sinuses or diverticula slit up, the surface thoroughly scraped, nitric acid applied and its action neutralized after about five minutes by carbonate of soda solution (see Part I., p. 239), the cavity being stuffed afterwards with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform. At first the superficial dressings must be renewed daily, but the packing need not be taken out for some days if it adhere firmly to the wound; later on the dressings will need changing at less frequent intervals and, finally, weak boracic oint- ment may be substituted when the cavity has become completely filled up with granulation tissue. Syphilitic Adenitis.—Syphilitic affections of the glands may occur in any stage of the disease. In the primary stage the adenitis generally begins from the fourth to the tenth day after the appearance of the sore; it is usually bilateral, and several glands are affected, the one nearest the chancre being usually the largest. There is no tendency in these cases to suppuration. The secondary form of adenitis affects the glands elsewhere, the most common seat being the glandulae concatenatse, which become enlarged and firm. Small sclerosed glands are also sometimes found in the tertiary stage; a gummatous condition has been described, but is very rare. The treatment of these conditions is the general treatment of syphilis (see Part I., Chap. XII.), no local treatment being called for. ^ Made by adding i part of sterilized iodoform to 9 parts of a i-iooo solution of cor- rosive sublimate in glycerine. The iodoform is sterilized by keeping it submerged for some days in a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid.