8o CLUB-FOOT. of the muscles is to some extent interfered with. The plaster also tenda to be soiled by urine, and to get loose, and the skin beneath gets irritated and often ulcerated. In addition to these drawbacks, the foot of an infant is so small and yielding that it is very difficult to get a proper purchase upon it. If plaster of Paris be employed, it should be renewed at least once a week, and great care must be taken that the foot is held in the over-corrected position whilst the plaster is setting. This is difficult to do when the foot is held in position by the hands, because the bony points that have to be grasped in order to keep the foot in good position, are just those on which it is necessary that the plaster should get a good grip, and naturally, when the hand is removed, these parts are left unsupported, and must be subsequently covered. In order to avoid this difficulty the best plan, in our opinion, is first to put the foot up upon a splint (preferably Sayre's apparatus), and then to encase the whole arrangement in plaster of Paris. The following are Fig 38.—Savrk's Ai'I>arati:s for Equino-Varus. This is identical with th.-it shown in Fig. 28, except that here there is the addition of the long outside strip of strapping designed to produce a certain amount of eversion of the foot. the various steps in the procedure. First of all, the foot and leg, as high as the knee, are encircled by a boracic lint bandage. A piece of wood of suitable thickness, which may be cut from a cigar-box lid, is shaped to the sole of the foot, but made to extend about three inches beyond the tip of the toes (see Fig. 38). To this a long piece of strapping is attached in a manner identical with that described for talipes equinus; that is to say, the strapping begins on the upper surface of the splint in front, runs backwaras round its posterior edge, and then forwards along its under surface around the anterior border. From this point the strapping must be long enough to extend rather more than half way up the thigh. The object of the strapping is to overcome the equinus deformity, but a second piece should be added to the splint so as to produce eversion of the foot. This should be attached to its outer border, immediately opposite the instep, carried transversely over the upper surface of the splint, around the inner border, then across the under surface to the outer border, and from this point the strapping must likewise be long enough to reach