291 VARICOSE VEINS. The India-rubber Bandage {Mariin's).—Oi these two forms of compres- sion the better is the application of a bandage, for by its means the pressure can be varied at will, and can be so regulated that it is uniform and is always exerted in the right direction. An elastic stocking, on the other hand, unless it be made with extreme accuracy, is apt somewhere to press injuriously on the limb, and the compression does not vary according to the needs of the case; the stocking, as usually made, constricts the limb at the upper part, and so actually aggravates the mischief it is designed to alleviate. Of bandages, the best is Martin's para-rubber bandage, perforated with numerous holes so as to provide for the escape of the perspiration. It is certainly the cheapest and best form of bandage upon the market; it is not so soon destroyed by use as elastic webbing, and it can be kept much cleaner. It should be applied the first thing in the morning while the patient is still in the recumbent position, and should reach from the instep, just behind the root of the toes, to just above the upper limit of the affected veins. Before the bandage is put on, the limb should be washed, thoroughly dried and powdered either with starch powder or with equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch. Many patients cannot bear the elastic bandage applied directly to the skin; the perspiration is confined, and eczema or intolerable pruritus is very apt to be set up. A white silk or cotton stocking should therefore first be drawn smoothly over the limb; it is well to order that this shall be washed at home so as to avoid any risk of irritation from chemicals employed at the laundry. The bandage is best applied over the stocking in the ordinary spiral form, care being taken not to put it on too tightly, but simply to unroll it around the limb. A little swelling of the limb is sure to occur when the patient gets up, and this renders the bandage sufficiently tight, whereas, if it be put on tightly at first, the pressure would soon become intolerable. Indeed, even when put on loosely, many patients find it necessary towards the middle or latter part of the day to remove and readjust it because it becomes too tight. The final turn of the bandage either above or below the knee, as the case may be, must not be drawn tight, as otherwise it will act as a garter and will constrict the limb. The pressure must be uniform, and if it varies at all it must be greatest at the foot, gradually decreasing as the knee is reached. The cheapness, the durability, and tiie readiness with which it can be adjusted to alterations in the size of the limb make this form of rubber bandage the most widely popular one that we have at our command. It is especially suitable for hospital patients, and in private practice should always be employed where any great muscular exertion, such as walking, riding, shooting, or the like is being practised by the patient. At bedtime the bandage should be left off, and it is always well to sponge it thoroughly over so as to remove all traces of perspiration, and then to hang it up to dry. Used in this way it causes a minimum amount of irritation.