49 CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT. preventing any further development of it. The first two objects are fulfilled by the use of suitable manipulations and massage, whilst for the third some form of apparatus must be employed. When congenital club-foot is detected early enough to be remediable by the hand, the nurse must be carefully instructed to over-correct the position of the foot several times a day, and it is of great advantage that this correction be carried out, in the first instance at any rate, by the medical man himself. It should be done by grasping the anterior half of the foot with one hand and gently, firmly, and slowly bringing it into its proper position, whilst the posterior half is fixed by the other hand. It is essential that these manipulations should be carried out without the employment of any force at all, as, if roughly done, spasm of the muscles is at once set up; this interferes considerably with the proper replacement, and teaches the child very soon to resent the manipulations, so that after a few days no further progress is made. The foot should be, so to speak, rather coaxed than forced into its proper position. It will usually then be found that re-position can be very readily effected, and the child does not object to the renewal of the manipulations on subsequent occasions. After the foot has been brought into proper position it should be held there for from five to ten minutes. In the course of a few days it will generally be found possible to over-correct the deformity without exciting the least spasm of the muscles, and this should be aimed at in all cases. At the same time the nurse should gently rub and manipulate the leg, the muscles on the side opposite the deformity especially being firmly kneaded with the view of increasing their power, so that they may tend to keep the foot in proper position. These manipulations, however, are not in themselves sufficient to lead to a permanent cure, and in the intervals between their employment the foot should be fixed in its normal position, or, if possible, in a position in which the deformity is somewhat over-corrected; this exerts a constant gentle pressure and thus gradually the soft cartilaginous bones are moulded into their normal shape. In the early stages this is better done by a light splint than by any of the more complicated forms of apparatus, which, owing to the small size of the foot, are not likely to exert their proper influence. The splifit which we prefer (see Fig. 26), consists of a light metal leg-piece which is moulded to the back of the leg, extending from just above the os calcis to the upper part of the calf, and a flat foot- piece which is cut to the shape of the foot. The two are connected by a stout copper wire bent as shown in the figure, and this should be strong enough to resist the action of the muscles, but at the same time sufficiently pliable to be readily bent into different positions by the nurse. The splint should be carefully padded with chamois leather, and is bent so that it fits the foot whilst the limb is in the faulty position ; in this position both the foot and leg are firmly applied to the splint by suitable bandages. The nurse then grasps the foot-piece with one hand, and the leg-piece p