185 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. TUBERCULOUS ADENITIS.—Tuberculosis is a very frequent and important form of glandular disease. It most commonly occurs before twenty years of age, but is not uncommon at other ages, and is even met with at an advanced period of life. The glands most commonly affected are the cervical, the bronchial and mesenteric glands, but glandular tuberculosis frequently occurs in connection with disease of joints; for instance the supra-condyloid glands are often affected in cases of tuberculous disease of the wrist, those in the groin in disease of the knee, etc. The glands are also frequently affected secondarily to tuberculous ulcers on the skin. In the case of the cervical, bronchial, and mesenteric glands, however, there may be no lesion at the point of entrance of the bacillus, the virus passing straight on through the mucous membranes to the glands. Pathology.—In tuberculous gland disease in the earlier stages there are found small discrete tubercles which subsequently run together, undergo softening, and then lead to chronic abscess; they may, however, become caseous and gradually diminish in size, being finally impregnated with cal- careous salts. Although only one or two glands may appear from external examination to be enlarged, as a rule a large number are affected; this is an extremely important fact to bear in mind as regards operation. Symptoms.—The glands form ovoid, firm, indolent masses, which are often quite painless, and at first freely mobile. At a later stage peri-adenitis may occur, and then the glands become matted together and gradually form a large lobulated or nodular mass. This is perhaps the most usual condition, at any rate it is common where suppuration is about to occur. In a third stage the glands undergo softening, the capsule being broken through and the disease spreading in the cellular tissue and towards the skin in the manner described in speaking of chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 247). When these abscesses burst they .leave tuberculous ulcers with sinuses leading down to cheesy glands. They are slow in heaUng, and very unsightly scars are left when this finally takes place. Treatment.—The simplest plan is to consider the treatment appropriate to each of the clinical stages mentioned, namely, (i) when the glands are isolated and there is no peri-adenitis; (2) when they have become matted together; (3) when abscess is present; (4) when abscesses have burst, and have left sinuses and ulcers. (i) When peri-adenitis is absent.—When the glands are isolated, mobile and small, and there is no peri-adenitis or any tendency to softening, no surgical interference is at first necessary. The general treatment of tuber- culosis (see Part I., p. 245) should be attended to, residence at the sea-side, or in a part of the country which suits the patient, the use of cod-liver oil, sea-water baths, and plenty of fresh air being of the utmost importance. Arsenic is also of considerable value in some cases ; the ordinary dose of liquor arsenicalis (which will vary according to the age of the patient) should be given to begin with, and this should be increased gradually until the patient is taking a dose just short of that necessary to produce toxic