367 ANEURYSMS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. always seen in the operation, as it may reach the outer side of the artery somewhat lower down (see Fig. I37). The only difficulty in the operation is to choose the right inter-muscular septum (viz. the innermost), and not to separate the one between the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus longus. {6) In tlie Lower Third.—In the lower third the artery is reached by an incision along the outer edge of the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle, which is the first prominent tendon external to the anterior border of the tibia. The skin and fascia are divided and this tendon is drawn inwards, whilst the next, that of the extensor longus hallucis, is- drawn outwards ; the artery will then be seen with the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side and rather in front of it (see Fig. 138). Ligature of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery.—The dorsalis pedis may be tied either at the ankle joint or further down in its course. In the ordinary operation on the dorsum of the foot the latter is extended and an incision is made along a line midway between the two malleoli to the upper end of the first inter-osseous space. After division of the skin and fascia the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis will be seen internally with the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum running forwards and inwards on its outer side. The artery lies in the angle formed by these two tendons, and by pulling the latter inwards and outwards the artery is at once exposed with the anterior tibial nerve upon its outer side (see Fig. 139). Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—This vessel is usually tied either in its upper or lower third. {a) In the Upper Third it may be exposed either by an incision along the posterior border of the tibia through which the artery is reached from the side, or by a vertical incision through the middle of the calf which separates the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The former is the more usual operation. The limb is laid upon its outer side, with the knee flexed and supported upon a suitable sandbag, and a verti- cal incision about four inches long is made parallel to the inner border of the tibia and about a finger's breadth behind it. The long saphenous nerve and the internal saphena vein are generally exposed and must be pulled aside. After the deep fascia has been divided the inner border of the- gastrocnemius comes into view and is drawn aside with a retractor. The oblique fibres of the soleus arising from the tibia are then seen, and must be divided in the line of the incision until the glistening fascia upon the deep surface of the muscle is exposed. This is carefully divided in the same direction, when the muscular fibres of the flexor longus digitorum with the tibialis posticus to its outer side, and still more externally the flexor longus hallucis, are seen. The soleus is pulled aside, and the artery will be found lying between the flexor longus digitorum and the tibialis posticus, about an inch and a quarter beyond the inner border of the tibia. The posterior tibial nerve is on its outer side (see Fig. 140). Difficulties.—Two mistakes are often made. Either the soleus is divided too far outwards, and the finger passes outside the tibialis posticus muscle, or after dividing the soleus the flexor longus digitorum is separated from the tibia so that the finger passes inside that muscle and away from the artery. In the Lower Third the posterior tibial artery lies midway between the tendo Achillis and the posterior border of the tibia and as it curves behind the internal malleolus it keeps about the same distance from the edge of the bone. An incision, which is usually curved, with its concavity forwards, is made in the line of the artery behind the internal malleolus, when, after division of the deep fascia, the vessel is exposed. Between the malleolus and the artery lie the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum, whilst behind the vessel is the posterior tibial nerve, and behind that again the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis (see Fig. 141). The principal mistake made in tying this artery is to get too far back towards the tendo Achillis. Ligature of the Peroneal Artery.—The course of this vessel is sufficiently