270 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF NERVES. with a large, flat, moist electrode placed over the spine. The current should be passed for 10 to 15 minutes at a time; it should be sufficiently weak not to cause any pain, and it should only be very cautiously in- creased in strength; no interruptions should be employed in the circuit. Operative treatment.—Of the surgical operations that have already been described in the treatment of neuritis, there are only two applicable to cases of neuralgia : these are neurotomy and neurectomy, of which the latter opera- tion is far preferable. The portion of nerve excised should be as far away as possible from the seat of the pain. Indeed, in some cases it is advisable to perform the operation in the immediate neighbourhood of the central origin of the nerve, and in some cases one may go back to the spinal or cerebral regions for this purpose, as, for example, in the removal of the Gasserian ganglion for trigeminal neuralgia. CONVULSIVE TIC.—Another nerve affection which must also be shortly referred to, and which will be considered in detail when we deal with the affections of the head and neck, is that in which intermittent muscular spasms occur as a result of some affection of the nerves, more particularly in the facial and cervical regions. This condition is spoken of as convulsive tic, and consists of intermittent and involuntary contraction of various muscles or groups of muscles. The surgical treatment of this condition will be either nerve-stretching {which, however, is only likely to succeed in the milder cases) or neiirectomy, which may succeed in curing the disease if practised sufficiently early and freely. TUMOURS OF NERVES. NEUROMATA.—The ordinary tumours of nerves are spoken of as neuromata, but as a rule they are not strictly neuromata at all, that is to say, they do not consist of true nerve tissue. The ordinary neuroma is usually of the connective tissue type, being in structure either fibromatous or myxomatous; these tumours usually commence in connection with the connective tissue of the nerve sheath, and may be entirely outside the nerve, or may occur between the nerve bundles. They give rise to neuritis and neuralgic pain, which is sometimes quite insupportable. Later on they may cause paralysis both of motion and sensation (if they occur in a mixed nerve) from the pressure they mechanically exert. The tumours may be single, but when myxomatous they are frequently multiple. Treatment.—The treatment of a tumour of this kind should be early and complete removal. If it grow outside the nerve it can generally be dissected off" without interfering with the continuity of the nerve trunk. When, however, it grows in the substance of it, it will be necessary to excise a portion of the nerve containing the tumour, and then to perform immediate nerve suture. The method of performing this has already been "described (see p. 251).