CHAPTER VII. CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. The hip joint is the one most commonly the subject of congenital dislocation, and the affection is apparently more frequent in females than in males. It is also not unusually associated with some other con- genital defect, and in a considerable number of cases the children are congenital idiots. The deformity may be unilateral or bilateral; probably it is more often bilateral. PATHOLOGY.—The displacement commonly met with is dislocation upon the dorsum ilii, the head of the bone being situated higher up and further back than normal. The head of the bone also undergoes considerable alteration in shape, being enlarged and flattened, and in some cases assuming almost a mushroom-like form. The acetabulum is always imperfectly developed, and frequently consists of little else than a slit in the innominate bone; any such cavity as exists is almost entirely filled up with soft tissue, whilst the remains of the anterior ligament of the joint are adherent over it. The ligamentum teres is represented by a thin elongated cord or is entirely absent. When the dislocation has lasted for some time, contraction of the muscles and tendons surrounding the joint is very apt to occur, and this not only prevents the articular surfaces being brought into their normal positions but also interferes greatly with the power of walking. The muscles most affected are the adductors; by their action the affected limb is drawn inwards towards the middle line, and in some cases, where the contraction is extreme and at the same time bilateral, a condition of cross- legged deformity may be produced. There is also a considerable tendency to flexion of the hip joint which increases as the child grows older, and with this there is also a marked lordosis, most apparent on standing. The flexion may eventually become so great as to entirely prevent walking. If the affection be unilateral, there is generally some amount of lateral curvature. In the early stages it is generally possible, at any rate during the first PT. II. I