219 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. two or three days at first and more frequently later on. After the drainage tube has been removed, the small incision will heal in the course of a few days, and in most cases there will be no recurrence of the effusion. Whenever for any reason this method is deemed inadvisable, or when the patient objects to an incision, the next best method of treatment is to puncture the sac, withdraw the fluid, and inject tincture of iodine. The aspirating needle or trochar and cannula must be boiled for 15 to 20 minutes, or immersed in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution for a considerable time prior to use, and the syringe must also be thoroughly disinfected by the same solution. The cannula is inserted into the sac above the wrist, the fluid drawn off, and then tincture of iodine is injected, as in the case of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The best preparation of iodine to use is the Edinburgh tincture, which is stronger than that of the British Phar- macopoeia, the quantity employed being about half a drachm, which is left in the sac. It is not desirable to set up too much inflammation in the cavity, as otherwise adhesions would be very apt to form. The hand should be placed on a splint and kept at rest for about ten days, fomentations being applied if there be much swelling or pain. Afterwards massage and movement should be employed, as in the other cases. (b) Villous teno-synovitis,—In the other form of chronic teno-synovitis, where there is a villous condition of the sheath resembling " lipoma arbor- escens," it is seldom that anything short of excision of the tendon sheath will arrest the effusion. As a preliminary measure, removal of the fluid by a cannula and injection of iodine into the cavity may be resorted to ; in some cases the villous projections become adherent to the wall, and the surface to a considerable extent loses its roughness, but in most cases, as has been said, excision must be employed. In hygroma of the wrist this operation is one of considerable difiiculty. In order to perform it a free vertical median incision must be made from the lower third of the forearm, above the swelling, to the middle of the palm of the hand, the annular ligament divided, and the sheath carefully cut down upon. The parts are held aside with retractors, and the tendon sheath is clipped away wherever it shows the villous condition. The annular ligament is then stitched up with catgut and the wound closed, a drainage tube being used for some days. Subsequently massage and movement are commenced and carried out as already described. TUBERCULOUS TENO-SYNOVITIS.—This aff-ection is met with in two forms, one in which the tendon sheath is greatly distended and filled with loose bodies, the so-called " rice bodies," and the other in which the chief change is thickening of the wall of the sac without much effusion into the cavity, a condition corresponding to the thickening of the synovial membrane of joints. (a) Teno-synovitis with "rice bodies."—The first form, viz., that in which the synovial sheath is distended and filled with rice-like bodies, was at one time looked upon as simply a chronic teno-synovitis, but it is