51 CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT. (2) In the second group of cases in which there are structures definitely resisting re-position, means must be taken to overcome these obstacles. This is best done by dividing the structures (which are chiefly ligaments and tendons) by a tenotomy knife. The methods of performing tenotomy in various situations will be referred to in detail when we come to speak of the individual forms of club-foot. Here it is sufficient to say that the resisting structures must be divided freely, and the foot must then be put up on a suitable splint in the corrected position, which later on is exchanged for a position of over-correction. Whether complete correction should be carried out at once, or should be delayed for from two or three days to a week, depends upon the circumstances of the case. Where the tendons which have been divided are very contracted, immediate and complete correction is sometimes inadvisable, more especially when the tendon affected is the tendo Achillis, for if immediate correction be made there may be either no union at all or else that which occurs is long, imperfect, and weak, and may lead to a deformity of the opposite kind. In most of the other tendons, however, and in all cases where the contraction fs not very great, there is considerable advantage to be gained in putting up the foot immediately in the corrected position, and substituting for this in a few days a position of over-correction. After sufficient time has been allowed to elapse for union to occur between the divided ends,—which is usually from two to three weeks,—the other accessory methods already described should be begun; they are careful manipulations, massage, electricity, and the application of splints. When the patient is older and begins to walk, a suitable mechanical arrangement permitting the use of the joints within normal limits should be combined with the other forms of treatment. These will be referred to in detail when dealing with the individual forms ■of the deformity. (3) In the third and most severe class of cases the treatment to be adopted will vary with the amount of deformity present, but as a rule the division of tendons, fasciae, and ligaments, and the subsequent use of manipulations and retentive apparatus are not sufficient, and very extensive operations, involving the division of numerous ligaments and other structures about the foot, or in some cases even the removal of part or the whole of the affected bones may be called for. Here again, the precise indications for the various operations will be given when speaking of the different forms of club-foot. As a rule it is in the severe and long- standing cases of equino-varus that these procedures are most often called for, but they are also sometimes found necessary in other varieties of club-foot when the deformity has been allowed to remain uncorrected for a great length of time. B.—ACQUIRED CLUB-FOOT. General points in the Treatment. — In the acquired variety ■ the treatment will vary very considerably with the particular case under