151 MALIGNANT PUSTULE OR ANTHRAX. overtaking it. Before excision, the pustule and the portion of skin to be removed should be sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. The skin around should also be cleansed with the strong mixture, and the usual antiseptic dressings—cyanide gauze and salicylic wool—employed, the wound itself being packed with cyanide gauze. During the operation it is advisable to use swabs of salicylic wool instead of sponges. There would be consider- able difficulty in disinfecting the sponges afterwards, owing to the resistance of the spores of the bacillus anthracis to antiseptics. In more advanced cases the brawny swelling should be laid freely open, the slough cut away, and the raw surface thoroughly destroyed with the actual cautery, and subsequently soaked with undiluied carbolic acid. In place of or in addition to these measures, some recommend in severe cases, where there is much cedema, injections of carbolic acid into the tissues all around the pustule. For this purpose a 1% watery solution is employed and two or three drops are injected hypodermically at numerous points in a circle all around the area of redness. As a rule, however, unless it be possible to get well beyond the disease by excision, the best method of treatment is free incision and cauterization, although this is by no means certain in its action. If the treatment prove successful, a granulating wound is left which must be treated on the lines already laid down in speaking of carbuncle (see p. 149). (c) General.—The general treatment of the affection—by the adminis- tration of large quantities of nourishing and easily digested food—must be carefully attended to. Stimulants—alcohol, sal volatile, and even ether—will be called for, sometimes in large quantities, and quinine in 5 to lo-grain doses every four hours, or Warburg's tincture in doses of a drachm at similar intervals is also useful. Powdered ipecacuanha, in doses of 40-60 grains given every four hours as long as the patient can retain it, has been highly recommended; we have no personal knowledge of its use^ but in any case it should only be tried as an adjunct to vigorous operative treatment. TUBERCULOSIS. This affection occurs in four forms: (i) Tuberculous ulceration; (2) Tuberculous warts; {3) Lupus; and (4) Tuberculous nodules in the subcutaneous tissue, termed gommes scrofuleuses by the French. TUBERCULOUS ULCERS.—These occur on the skin or mucous mem- branes either primarily, as the result of direct inoculation from the outside, or secondarily from infection from beneath, as after rupture of tuberculous abscesses. In phthisis, tuberculous ulcers are comparatively common on various mucous membranes, especially in the intestine, the tongue, and the throat; they are probably due to direct inoculation of the part by the bacilli contained in the tuberculous sputum. Elsewhere, the ulceration generally results from the bursting of deeper seated abscesses, but it may also be