217 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. duced. The free exit of the pus is so important that the surgeon should not hesitate to lay the sheath very freely open. When the tendon sloughs, the part is irretrievably damaged, and the separation of the dead tendon is often extremely slow; when death of the whole tendon right up to the muscle occurs, the separation is more rapidly effected, but when only a portion sloughs it may be months before the dead part is got rid off, and, as there can be no hope of the tendon being of use subsequently, matters may be materially shortened by cutting it away as soon as the surgeon is sure that it has necrosed—as will be indicated by its ragged and greyish appearance; if a little too much be taken away, no particular harm is done. When the tendon of a finger is affected it may save time if amputation be performed at the same time. When sloughing does not occur, active and passive movement should be begun as soon as the wound begins to heal, and should be persevered with daily; it is not necessary to wait until the wound has quite healed before commencing it. It should be remembered that in these cases the tendency to adhesion is even greater and the resulting adhesions firmer than in the plastic form, and very great patience and self-denial must be exercised by the patient, if anything like a satisfactory result is to be obtained. The result of abandoning passive movement prematurely will certainly be that permanent and irremediable uselessness of the part will ensue. During the acute stage the patient suffers from severe inflammatory fever, and the appropriate treatment for this condition (see Part I., Chap. I.) must be employed. Stimulants should be given if necessary, and the patient put on liquid diet, and then, as the temperature falls, nourishing food and fresh air are the chief requisites. When the upper extremity is affected the patient need not be confined to bed after the acute inflammatory symptoms subside. CHRONIC TENO-SYNOVITIS.—This affection is generally serous, and may follow on the acute form, or it may occur as the result of rheu- matism or of excessive use, as, for example, in various trades. Chronic serous teno-synovitis is most often seen in the hand, where it chiefly affects the common palmar sheath; it also occurs in connection with the popliteus and certain other muscles. Symptoms.—The tendon sheath becomes slowly distended with serous fluid, without any marked pain or interference with movement at first, and the patient may only become conscious of the trouble when the distension has become considerable. In the case of hygroma of the common palmar sheath a swelling forms in the palm, and the fluid extends beneath the annular ligament into the forearm, where it forms a second swelling, and fluctuation between the two can generally be readily obtained. The fluid is limpid and straw-coloured, and the tendon sheath is smooth and not materially thickened. A second form however occurs, probably in connection with rheumatism, in which the tendon sheath becomes much thickened and covered with