69 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. knee above. Thus, when the patient lifts the foot from the ground, the heel is drawn up by the band, and when the foot is brought to the ground, the weight of the body stretches the elastic and allows the foot to come to a right angle, where it is stopped by the hinge arrangement. When the patient is not walking, it is well to take off this apparatus, which is apt, under any circumstances, to be somewhat heavy for the much-enfeebled limb, to employ massage, electricity and douching, and then to substitute the simpler splint already mentioned above. When electrical examination shows that there is still a considerable amount of healthy muscular tissue left in the calf muscles, something further may be done to promote the usefulness of the limb ; this takes the form of shortening the unduly elongated tendo Achillis. As a pre- liminary measure, however, it may be necessary to divide any tendons on the front of the ankle which are rendered unduly tense when the foot is Fig. 33.—Flap Method of Exposing theTp;nuo Achillis. The line of section for the plastic operation for shortening the tendon is also shown, and it can be seen that there is no likelihood of the cicatrix in the skin becoming united to that in the tendon. Fig. 34.—Oblique Section for Shortening Tendons. In .'I are shown the incisions, the upper one aa' com- mencing just upon the muscular fibres ; the portion a a' b'b between the two incisions is of course removed. In B this has been done, and the cut surfaces of the tendon sutured. Enough has been removed to raise the heel and point the toes somewhat. brought into its normal position. The operations for shortening the tendo Achillis are apt to be somewhat unsatisfactory, the principal reason for this being that the union between the divided ends tends to stretch some- what after a time and thus to allow the deformity to be reproduced. Simple transverse division of the tendo Achillis and resection of a portion sufficient to restore it to its proper length is always inefficient, as the uniting medium invariably stretches subsequently. In order to obtain a successful result, the operation must be of a somewhat more elaborate character; it may be designed with the view of getting a broader and firmer uniting surface, or the tendon need not be divided at all, but its point of insertion into the os calcis may be changed. 1. Plastic operations upon the tendo Achillis.—If it be desired to divide the tendo Achillis, this structure should be exposed by turning up a flap, which is made by carrying a curved incision from a point about