SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF VEINS. 290 been described, such as simple ligature, subcutaneous ligature, or the injection of irritants either into or around the vein, but none of them are in any way preferable as regards results to the methods which we have just described, and they all possess disadvantages which the excision method does not. Palliative Treatment.—The palliative treatment consists primarily in looking for, and, if possible, removing any local or constitutional cause which predisposes to the varix; and, secondly, in supporting the dilated veins by suitable apparatus. All constricting bands, such as garters, should be inter- dicted, the stockings being suspended instead of gartered. If constipation be present it must be remedied by appropriate means, such as the use of cascara, belladonna, strychnine, etc. When the trouble is due to pregnancy, the recumbent position should be assumed as much as possible, so as to diminish the pressure on the large veins. In fact, anything that is found to be causing pressure on the veins should be relieved or removed. In addition to the removal of pressure, steps must be taken to relieve the congestioti of the extremity, and to facilitate the flow of blood through the affected veins. While the patient is at rest the limb should be kept elevated so as to aid the return of blood, and to diminish any oedema present. It is unnecessary, except in very severe cases, to confine the patient to bed or even to the couch for this purpose, but whenever there is an opportunity of sitting down, the limb should be placed on a suitable rest at a higher level than the pelvis. If this can be done frequently during the day, it will do a good deal to prevent increase of the affection. The return of the blood may be still further facilitated by gentle massage of the limb from the foot to the groin. The rubbing should be very gently applied, otherwise it is apt to cause injury to the delicate walls of the veins, and may lead to phlebitis and thrombosis. All that is necessary is merely to rub the limb in the upward direction with the open hand, which should be well oiled. Active exercise in moderation is also of great value; moderate walking, bicycling, horse-riding, and golf may be indulged in without any fear of aggravating the disease, but the exercise should not be persisted in for too long at a time, and it should be varied as much as possible. The muscular contractions involved in these exercises help to force the blood onwards through the veins, while the exercise keeps the patient in better condition, makes him less flabby and prevents him from putting on too much fat. The point that should be specially provided against is continued standing, or sitting with the legs in the dependent position. These methods, however, are but accessories to the most important part of the palliative treatment, namely, mechanical support to the veins. The support usually employed takes the form of bandages or stockings containing elastic material, which aim at supporting the vein and exerting equable pressure from below upwards. Formerly, localized pressure was employed over isolated veins by means of pads and strapping, but this is now practically abandoned in favour of more uniform compression of the whole Hmb by bandages or stockings.