SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. 3o8 (a) Secondary hcemorrhage was of frequent occurrence after ligature of the larger arteries in former days, when it was attributed variously to a diseased condition of the artery at the seat of ligature, to the too fiee detachment of the sheath of the vessel at the point at which the ligature was applied, to too early separation of the ligature, or to too small an amount of clot within the vessel. As a matter of fact we now know that this accident depends essentially upon a septic condition of the wound which is necessarily followed by separation of the ligature. When the wound is absolutely aseptic it would appear that it is not a point of very great importance that the vessel should be perfectly healthy at the seat of ligature, nor does the freedom with which the sheath is detached from the artery seem to matter much. Formerly in all treatises upon ligature of arteries the greatest stress was laid upon the necessity of making a minute hole in the sheath of the vessel, and gradually insinuating a fine aneurysm needle around it so as to avoid any risk of raising the artery from its bed. While, of course, it is well to avoid denuding the artery of its sheath for a greater distance than is necessary, we have ample experience to show that the arterial sheath can be stripped off for a very considerable distance in an aseptic wound without the slightest risk of secondary haemorrhage occurring. As has been said, the real cause of secondary haemorrhage in former days was septic infection of the wound, which necessarily entailed the separation of the ligature; whenever silk ligatures become septic, they must be extruded from the wound like any other foreign body before healing can take place. The result of this is that the vessel in the immediate neighbourhood of this foreign body becomes inflamed and converted into granulation tissue, and suppuration ultimately occurs; when this has taken place, the ligature becomes loose and can be pulled out. The only obstacle to the escape of blood from the vessel at this period is the granulation tissue into which the vessel wall has become converted, and the blood-clot deposited in the interior of the artery. Should the granulation tissue be soft and weak and the plug of clot small in amount, secondary haemorrhage is very likely to occur. The amount of clot formed upon the distal side of the ligature is generally small, and, as a matter of fact, it is from this and not from the proximal side that secondary haemorrhage generally occurs. At the present day, when wounds are kept rigidly aseptic, ligatures do not separate at all; the wound heals rapidly, and there is very little formation of granu- lation tissue in the wall of the vessel, and consequently only slight softening of the coats. Further than this the ligature becomes buried in lymph which undergoes organization, and thus serves as material to strengthen the artery. Hence the fear of secondary haemorrhage after ligature of any artery, except the largest, such as the innominate, is not one which need trouble the surgeon. In the latter case, however, there still seems to be a distinct danger of such an occurrence. This is due not to septic