334 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. complete obliteration of the vessel, the surgeon may use a considerable amount of force when two ligatures are employed, without running the risk of rupturing the coats. The old incision used for ligature of the innominate artery consisted of a A-shaped cut, one limb being parallel with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, while the other ran outwards along the clavicle. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid was then divided, and the attach- ments of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles similarly treated. The result of this was to create a cavity which filled up with clot and required drainage; if this method be employed, a longer time will be required for the healing, and the ligature does not get support from the new cicatricial tissue so early as it does after the median incision when the whole wound heals by first intention. After the innominate trunk has been tied, a ligature should be applied to the common carotid, close to its origin, and this can be readily done through the same wound. Before the wound is closed, all haemorrhage should be absolutely arrested by pressure and ligature, and the muscles are then allowed to fall back into their proper position. If necessary, they may be secured by fine catgut stitches, but this is usually not required. In some cases it may be thought advisable to ligature the vertebral artery, but this is very difficult to do through a median incision unless the patient be very spare, and then it can only be done when the aneurysm does not bulge much towards the inner side. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery.—The artery enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra behind the sterno- mastoid muscle, which must be pulled well outwards so as to expose the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae. The carotid sheath should be pulled inwards, and the vertebral vein which lies over the vessel should be kept out of the way. Great care must be taken in clearing the artery to avoid including branches of the sympathetic nerve in the ligature. Ligature of the first part of the Subclavian Artery.—In aneurysms of the third part of the left subclavian artery the first part of the vessel may be reached by a median incision and a ligature applied to it immedi- ately after its origin from the aorta as it lies over the front of the trachea, and before it gives off any branches (see Fig. no). On the other hand, it can be reached further out by a vertical incision, between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and from this incision it may be tied either close to or beyond the origin of its branches. On the right side, the first part of the subclavian may be exposed and tied by a vertical incision between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The patient is placed upon his back with the shoulders raised by a sandbag, and the head turned to the opposite side. The interval between the clavicular and sternal heads of the sterno-mastoid is then identified, and an incision is made over it parallel with the long axis of that muscle, about four inches in length, and