144 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. parts, cause exquisite pain and suffering long before it gives rise to fluctuation or any other characteristic sign of an abscess. When the corn is cut through, and the drop or two of pus let out, the relief is immediate. The entire corn, which is undermined by the abscess, can then be clipped away with scissors, and warm boracic fomentations, which are changed as often as necessary, should be applied and continued until all acute symptoms have subsided, when dilute boracic ointment should be substituted. This small operation, which ends in the permanent cure of the corn, is best done under nitrous oxide; freezing the part is not to be recommended. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Of these, multiple acute abscesses, boils, and carbuncles demand con- sideration ; there are in addition various specific inflammatory conditions of the skin which must be noticed. The more diffuse inflammatory affec- tions, such as acne, lichen, etc., do not properly belong to this group of surgical affections of the skin. MULTIPLE ACUTE ABSCESSES OF THE SKIN AND SUB CUTANEOUS TISSUE are not uncommon in infants and young children. They probably occur in connection with the sebaceous glands, and are principally due to dirt, eczema, scratching, etc. In infants they are often the result of the clothes not being changed sufficiently often, so that dirty flannel is in constant contact with the skin, and, as the child wriggles, the dirt from it is rubbed into the orifices of the glands. In the infant the skin is thin and soft, and sloughing does not so readily occur as in the harder skin of the adult subject, and hence acute inflammation of the skin in them leads to the formation of acute abscesses, which take the place of boils in adults. The treatment follows the same lines as that of abscesses generally. Any abscesses present should be freely opened with full antiseptic precautions (see Part I., p. 26), and the further spread of the trouble should be provided against by thoroughly cleansing the skin generally, and disinfecting it with special care in the vicinity of the abscesses. The use of clean underlinen or flannel must of course be insisted on. BOILS are closely related, as far as their seat of origin is concerned, to acne and impetigo, the latter being a pustular eruption of the skin in connection with the hair follicles, and a boil being a circumscribed gan- grenous inflammation of the skin which probably occurs in connection with the sebaceous glands of the same structures. Boils are small conical tumours, hard and painful, which usually suppurate and give exit to a soft slough, in which are the remains of the hair and the sebaceous structures. They chiefly occur where the hairs are coarse and the sebaceous glands are numerous (with the exception of the hairy scalp), and they are