297 FALSE ANEURYSM. at the bend of the elbow. The lancet was apt to go too deep in dividing the vein, and the artery was punctured; the immediate rush of blood was arrested by the pressure of the pad, but when the wound healed and the pad was left off, blood escaped through the incision in the artery, and led to the formation of a false aneurysm. TREATMENT.—This will depend very largely upon the situation of the aneurysm. When it is in an extremity or an accessible part, the best treatment is—after controlling the circulation either by digital pressure or by a tourniquet (if there be room for one above the aneurysm)—to cut down and freely expose the sac, lay it open, turn out the clots, search for the opening in the vessel, and having cleared the artery above and below the sac, to tie it in both places. Any branch coming off between these ligatures must also be tied, as otherwise the collateral circulation will allow blood to escape into the remains of the sac. In fact, it is well, after ligaturing the vessel above and below the opening, to dissect out the intervening portion of the vessel and as much of the sac as possible. This operation for false aneurysm has also been practised in situations where the vessel cannot be controlled on the proximal side of the sac. In such a case, after the sac has been thoroughly exposed, an opening is made into the aneurysm barely large enough to admit the finger, and the moment this is done the latter is thrust through it into the sac so as to form an efficient plug to check the escape of blood; the finger is then gradually insinuated through the clots, and the opening in the vessel is felt. This can usually be made out by the sense of touch, or if not it may be discovered by the stream of blood impinging on the finger as it escapes from the vessel. After the situation of the opening has been ascertained, the latter is firmly compressed with the finger against the underlying bone, and, while the pressure is maintained, the sac of the aneurysm is laid freely open, the clots turned out, and the artery cleared and tied above and below. In cases of subcutaneous rupture of an artery, when the patient does not die at once, but a diffuse aneurysmal hsematoma forms, the treatment is to compress the artery above, cut down at once upon the htematoma, clear out the clots and tie the vessel above and below the seat of injury. The wound is then stitched up, but it is well to put in a drainage tube for the first few days, as there is generally a good deal of oozing; these operations must of course be conducted with strict aseptic precautions. When the main artery of a limb is affected, the parts below the seat of ligature should be kept warm and somewhat elevated, and the general treatment is exactly the same as that which will be presently described in connection with the ligature of vessels for true aneurysm.