36 FLAT FOOT. the anterior part of the foot to become abducted, so that in bad cases the inner border of the foot may be actually convex and the outer con- cave. The outer border of the foot subsequently becomes somewhat elevated, and the patient walks more on the inner, although not to the same extreme degree -as in cases of talipes valgus. As flat foot develops, a certain amount of pain is practically always present, although it varies considerably both in situation and degree. In the acute form of the disease, due to an inflammatory condition of the ligaments, the pain is usually so severe that the patient is entirely unable to walk. Here it is chiefly felt about the centre of the sole beneath the head of the astragalus, and there is also marked tenderness on upward pressure at that spot. This is no doubt due to the stretching of the ligaments about the mid-tarsal joint. In the more advanced cases, in addition to these symptoms, considerable pain is also experienced along the outer border of the foot, both on the outer side of the metatarsus and about the external malleolus. The pain in the latter situation is often due to actual pressure of the os calcis against the tip of the fibula. Except in very extreme cases, the tendons about the ankle are unaltered, but, in long standing ones, the peronei tendons get tense, and their division is necessary before the deformity can be overcome. In very severe cases indeed, the peronei tendons may be dislocated from their groove and lie upon or anterior to the external malleolus. In cases Of long standing, marked changes also occur in the bones; the uncovered portion of the head of the astragalus becomes deprived of its cartilage and somewhat enlarged, so that it cannot be replaced in its proper position. Sometimes actual bony anchylosis may take place. TREATMENT.—For the purposes of treatment flat foot may be divided into five more or less distinct stages, (i) A patient who has hitherto had a normal arch to the foot begins, comparatively suddenly, to complain of pain on standing referred to the centre of the sole. On examination there is considerable tenderness on upward pressure in the sole, and obliteration of the arch of the instep. This form of the affection is generally known as "acute flat foot," and is usually associated, as has already been said, with an inflammatory condition of the ligaments supporting the head of the astragalus. Here, in the early stage, there is no difficulty in bringing the foot into proper position and restoring the arch; no bony deformity has yet taken place, nor is there any shortening of the ligaments or tendons on the outer side of the foot. (2) Chronic cases characterized by very slight pain, in which the arch can be readily restored by manipulation. (3) Those in which there is considerable deformity, and in which the arch can only be restored with difficulty. (4) Bad cases, with marked deformity which cannot be reduced without the employment of considerable force. (5) The most severe cases of all, accompanied by much bony de-