l82 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. VENEREAL ADENITIS.—Under this term are included simple bubo, arising in connection with want of cleanliness, and also gonorrhoeal, chancrous, and syphilitic buboes. Simple Bubo.—This consists of enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the groin, and may occur as the result of some irritation, such as a slight abrasion, balanitis, or uncleanliness. The enlargement of the glands is not accompanied by any great pain or tenderness, and it does not usually end in suppuration. It very quickly subsides if the patient be kept at rest in bed, with fomentations applied to the enlarged glands, and appropriate treatment to the primary source of irritation. Gonorrhceal Bubo.—Enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the groin occasionally occurs in cases of gonorrhoea. It does not, however, usually end in suppuration unless septic organisms have gained access. When suppuration does occur, the probability is that in addition to the gono- coccus there is also infection by the pyogenic organisms. In these cases it is generally possible to detect an intra-urethral sore by means of the urethroscope. Treatment.—The treatment of gonorrhoeal bubo is practically the same as that of the simple variety. The patient should be kept in bed so as to ensure complete rest to the part, and the ordinary treatment suitable for inflammatory conditions generally, viz., fomentations, a purge, etc. (see Part. I., Chap. I.), should be carried out, and attention should be paid to the treatment of the primary condition. If irritating injections have been employed, these should for a time be discontinued, but the urethra may be washed out two or three times daily with tepid water, or very dilute Condy's fluid. Large quantities of diluents should be given by the mouth, and copaiba or sandalwood oil should be administered; in other words, the ordinary treatment for gonorrhoea must be adopted. ^Vhen suppuration occurs the treatment is the same as that for acute adenitis with abscess {vide supra). Chancrous Bubo is very common, a large number of cases of soft chancre being complicated by adenitis. Generally one or two glands at the inner end of the horizontal inguinal group are affected, and the trouble begins about 14 days after the appearance of the sore. The symptoms of a chancrous bubo are usually sub-acute. They may, however, be acute and, if the case be complicated by the entry of pyogenic organisms, suppuration ensues early. Indeed, in most cases, even though no pyogenic organisms be present, the chancrous virus is active enough to ensure the formation of an abscess. The suppuration begins in the substance of the gland, giving rise to an oval swelling parallel to Poupart's ligament; this swelling gradually softens and points. The pus, when evacuated, is somewhat thin and dark, and contains flakes or clots; it is quite unlike the ordinary yellow pus of an acute abscess. If the abscess be freely opened, it often happens that a chancrous ulcer forms in the groin, which may extend deeply and prove extremely obstinate in healing.