INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 175 Pathological Changes.—In acute lymphangitis the walls of the vessels become inflamed and thickened, and inflammation also occurs in the tissues around, giving rise to the condition known as peri-lymphangitis. When suppuration takes place, the pus is usually present outside the vessels as well as within them; this suppuration is localized and generally occurs at intervals along the lymphatics, more especially about the valves. The organism producing this condition is usually the streptococcus pyogenes, and lymphan- gitis plays a very important part in the multiplication of abscesses in diffuse cellulitis, and also in septicsemia and pyaemia. Symptoms.—The symptoms of lymphangitis may be very severe, and often commence within twenty-four hours after the injury, with shivering, headache, loss of appetite, high temperature, and the presence of red lines running from the wound or primary focus of inflammation, towards the nearest lymphatic glands. These red lines are generally broader than the lymphatic vessels beneath, and are accounted for by the presence of peri-lymphangitis; very often it is possible to ascertain the position of the valves by the red patches at intervals along these tracts. At these points, abscesses may form as the result of the escape of micro-organisms from the vessels into the tissues around. In all cases of lymphangitis, the character of the fever, though at first of the acute sthenic form, soon assumes the typhoid type, and in the severe forms the patient may die in from one to four days. Varieties.—There are various forms of acute lymphangitis. The simplest is where the organisms are not arrested in the course of the vessels, and there is merely a primary seat of inoculation or focus of inflammation, with red lines spreading from it, and swelling of the nearest lymphatic glands. When the virus is very potent, the lymphangitis may be only very slightly marked, and the organisms may pass on through the lymphatic vessels, and reach the blood stream, and set up rapid and very fatal septicaemia. Another particularly bad form of the affection is that known as gatigrenous lymphan- gitis; it occurs especially in diabetics. Here there are at first the ordinary symptoms of the severe acute form, and then, in the course of two or three days, bullae and gangrenous patches appear along the course of the vessels. The patient rapidly passes into the typhoid state, and usually dies. Among the complications of this condition may be mentioned diffuse cellulitis, phlebitis, erysipelas, abscesses, and purulent affections of bursae or joints, when the lymphatics pass over or are in the immediate neighbour- hood of these structures. Treatment.—(a) Prophylactic—Careful attention must be directed to cleansing wounds of all kinds. In post-mortem wounds more especially, thorough disinfection with undiluted carbolic acid, as recommended in Part I., p. 190, should be systematically carried out as soon as possible after infliction of the wound. (b) Curative.—When lymphangitis is established, it is necessary to treat the primary source, the local affection itself, and the constitutional condition. The primary source should be carefully looked for; if it be a wound this