HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. 21 be begun and carried out regularly for two or three weeks, so as to get rid of any adhesions that may have formed in the joint during the process of healing; these however very rarely give rise to any trouble. The patient should then wear a sock with a separate compartment for the great toe, and for two or three months it is well also to wear the spring apparatus just described for bunion (Fig. 15), so as to keep the member in its adducted position. Sometimes the result is so good that this is not called for, and the use of a boot with a toe-post is all that is necessary. Special attention will have to be paid to the boots, which must be constructed on the principles laid down on page 16. In about three or four months after the operation the patient is generally able to discard all apparatus, and if proper boots be worn there will be no fear of recurrence of the trouble. The results of the operation are extremely satisfactory, and it certainly merits a wider use than it apparently enjoys. It is important to remember with regard to it, however, that the joint is necessarily opened and that strict asepsis is therefore a matter of primary importance. Another operation has been proposed, in which the special aim is not so much the removal of the enlarged bone as the correction of the eversion. This is done by a wedge-shaped osteotomy just behind the enlarged head of the first metatarsal, through an incision somewhat internal to the one above described (see Fig. 17). After the removal of the wedge of bone the toe is brought straight and secured in position by splints until union has occurred. This operation no doubt overcomes the abduction, and in that respect has a certain amount of advantage over that just described, but it leaves untouched both the bursa over the prominent head of the metatarsal bone and the enlargement in the bone itself, which are essential parts of f,^. ,,._bun,on. Cune.porm Os- the disease. In our opinion such a partial ]^^:^r..ZJ"T^.^'^^^^^^^^^^ operation is seldom called for; in verv bad posit'onpf" the loe after the operation ^ _ ' ■' \s compleied. It shows well one great cases, however, accompanied by almost com- opei-'tion, viz., that the ' _ _ projection on the inner aspect of the bone plete anchylosis of the joint, it may be still remains exposed to pressure. performed, as there might be considerable difficulty in bringing the toe straight after the division of the ligaments, as carried out in the operation first mentioned. Even in these cases, however, we should be inclined to recommend that, in the first place, the bursa and the enlargement of the bone should be removed as described above (see p. 19), and that subsequently, if the toe will not readily come straight, an osteotomy of the metatarsal bone should be performed just behind the head, so as to rectify the lateral displacement. Excision of the great toe joint has also been employed for this affection