SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BURS^. 194 is applied, and the limb put upon a splint. If preferred, a splint need not be employed; a thick mass of dressing is sufficient to check the movements of the joint sufficiently to permit rapid healing. The wound will heal in a few days, the stitches may be taken out in a week, a collodion dressing applied, and the patient allowed to walk about on the eighth or the tenth day. By making a curved incision in this manner the scar does not lie over the lower part of the bone, so that there is no danger of pressure upon the scar and a recurrence of pain on kneeling. The skin over the patella very soon becomes loose and supple, and the patient experiences no inconvenience from the absence of the bursa. (b) Palliative.—This should only be employed when the patient declines radical treatment; it consists in rest and counter-irritation. The limb is placed upon a back splint, the patient being kept in bed or only allowed to walk about with the splint on, and iodine or blisters are applied over the bursa. A certain amount of time may be saved by drawing off the fluid with an aspirating needle before beginning the treatment, and then applying the counter-irritation. If the patient continue to walk about, only a slight diminution of the swelling as a rule results; if, however, she be confined to bed from the first, the swelling may disappear almost entirely, the fluid being all absorbed, and only a somewhat thickened wall left. In many cases it is then possible to feel cords or loose bodies moving under the finger in the interior of the bursa. As a rule, when the patient begins to kneel or resume her work, the effusion recurs, so that really nothing is gained by this palliative method of treatment. Other methods intermediate between complete excision and rest have been employed. For example, it is common to puncture the bursa and inject it with tincture of iodine or undiluted carbolic acid, as is done in the case of a hydrocele ; at least as much time, however, is taken up by this method of treatment as if excision were practised, and the result is not at all certain. A more certain method is drainage of the bursa, and this is dis- tinctly preferable to the palliative treatment just mentioned. Incisioti and drainage will often lead to a permanent cure of the trouble, even if loose bodies or tags be present in the bursal cavity, as they can be removed at the same time. But this plan does not seem to possess any particular advantage over excision. In the first place, it takes longer (as a rule, it is not possibe to leave out the tube in less than ten days, and then the wound has still to heal), and it is more dangerous on account of the risk of sepsis. If sepsis were to occur in the wound made for removal of the bursa (provided no communication had been made with the joint), the probability is that it would be a purely local accident; whereas, if sepsis occur in an open bursa, a most violent suppurative inflammation is set up, which not only causes local trouble, and leads to a long illness, but may cause very serious general septic infection. Cases are also known where recurrence of the original bursitis has taken place even after incision and drainage. The only conceivable advantage of these methods over excision is that in them