97 CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. ground. It is important that it should project several inches beyond the sole, and not just an inch or two as is usually recommended; it is quite possible, when the projection is not enough, for the child to point the toes and walk about on them. When the splint has been firmly fixed above and below, a broad piece of elastic webbing may be applied opposite the point of greatest convexity, so as to draw the limb gradually and gently outwards against the splint (see Fig. 43). When the curve is very marked, so that there is a considerable tendency for the splint to slip round, it is a good plan to have a light iron bar screwed to the lower end of the splint and fastened to the heel of the boot so as to prevent rotation. Although a great deal has been written about the influence of splints of this kind in straightening these cur- vatures, they are really of more use in preventing the deformity from becoming worse, and thus allowing nature to obliterate it as growth progresses, than in actively bending the bone back into its normal position. This point is of the highest importance in' practice, because, should the surgeon be under the impression that he is able to obliterate the curve by splints, he is apt to apply so much force as to produce ulceration at the points of greatest pressure, namely, over the convexity of the curve or opposite the knee and ankle. It may safely be said that unless the bones are so soft that they can almost be straightened by the hand, the application of splints can produce very little real alteration, and their usefulness lies entirely in the fact that they prevent the curve from increasing, and thus aid the obliteration of the deformity by the natural processes of growth. In addition to splints it is very advantageous to employ massage and electricity, to allow of which the splint should be removed night and morning. At the same time the limb may be douched and attempts made to reduce the curvature by steady manipulation; a great deal can actually be done by the nurse in this direction. The limb should be grasped at the extremities of the curve, the thumbs applied opposite the point of greatest convexity, and then by steady and gradual pressure—but not sufficient to cause the child pain—the bone may be gradually straightened. The cases that are most rebellious to the treatment by splints are those in which there is an acute anterior curvature immediately above PT. II. G Fig. 43.—Internal Splint for Bow Legs. The projection of the splint well beyond the toes is shown. The bandage over the convexity of the curve may be of elastic webbing if great care be taken not to exert too great a pressure.