CHAPTER XI. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. INJURIES. WOUNDS of the lymphatic vessels only come under notice when the larger trunks are injured. Should this happen in an open wound there is a free escape of lymph from the injured vessel, and the condition known as l3anphorrh.agia is produced. This may lead to the occurrence of a fistula from which lymph escapes, and which is very difficult to heal. As a rule, however, although in many operations a large number of lymphatic vessels are divided, there is very little trouble of this kind. The discharge of lymph may be copious at first, but, as it is mixed with discharge from the wound, it is usually looked upon as serum; it quickly diminishes, and in about eight days the vessels become sealed and the wound heals. In some cases where there has been extensive interference with the lymphatic return from a limb, as, for example, after removal of the contents of the axilla in extensive cases of cancer of the breast, the obstruction to the lymphatics which occurs during healing may be so great as to cause considerable and very obstinate oedema of the limb. Under these circumstances the best treatment is to elevate the limb on every possible occasion, and to employ gentle rubbing and upward squeezing so as to help onwards the flow of lymph, and to bring about dilatation of the collateral channels. As a rule, the oedema is found to subside gradually after two or three months, and ultimately it may com- pletely disappear. Wound of the Thoracic Duct.—It is only when the very largest trunks are injured that much trouble is met with. For example, in cases of injury to the thoracic duct, there may be a great deal of difficulty in getting the wound to heal and the lymphatic circulation restored. We ourselves have only had to do with two cases in which such an accident has happened. In one the wound was made during the excision of a mass of very adherent tuberculous lymphatic glands at the base of the posterior triangle of the neck. In the other case the vessel was injured