148 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. the diet may be made more strict. For a diet suitable for diabetics, see Part I., p. 76. (b) Local Treatment.—Before the appearance of the pustules on the surface of the carbuncle, and before the symptoms are very severe, warm fomentations may be employed in the hope that the inflammation may subside, or at any rate that its extent may be limited by their use. But where suppuration is evidently occurring, something in the way of operation must be done. The operative procedures are excision, incision combined with scraping, or free incision alone. (1) Excision.—The best treatment for carbuncles of moderate size, is to administer an anaesthetic, to make an incision completely encircling them, and to dissect them out cleanly, using the ordinary antiseptic precautions. No- thing is lost by excision, because the skin over the carbuncle is of little or no use in the subsequent healing, whilst the deeper parts and the subcutaneous tissues will certainly slough, so that there is no extra loss of tissue. On the other hand, by early removal the whole trouble may be cut short, and the patient freed on the one hand from the pain, and, on the other, from the danger of extension of the disease, and the risk of general septic infection. The excision must be quite clean, and must be well beyond the limit of the disease, or else local recrudescence is almost certain. In order to diminish the risk of infection of the wound it is well to sponge the surface of the skin to be removed with undiluted carbolic acid. The incision generally requires to be carried down to the deep fascia; the amount of blood lost is not great, the oozing that occurs being readily stopped by pressure. After removing the affected area and arresting the oozing, it is well to sponge the surface of the wound with undiluted carbolic acid, and then to apply the ordinary cyanide gauze dressings. As soon as it is certain that the raw surface has not become infected, and is granu- lating healthily, skin-grafting should be employed. (2) Incision and Scraping.—When the affection is very extensive, and when the patient is so enfeebled that the loss of blood entailed by excision would be serious, the foregoing method is not advisable, and free crucial incisions must be made into the carbuncle instead. These incisions should extend right across the affected area, from the healthy skin on one side to the healthy skin on- the other, and must divide the sloughs throughout their entire depth. These should then be clipped and dissected, or scraped away as thoroughly as possible, and if the whole slough can be removed in this manner, the chief risk of the disease will be at the same time disposed of. All the perforated and undermined skin should also be cut away: it can do no good, and only forms a possible source of fresh infection of the wound afterwards. When the slough has been got rid of as thoroughly as possible, the bleeding should be arrested, and the raw surface thoroughly impregnated with undiluted carbolic acid. The object of this is to disinfect any portion of the slough that may remain, and to kill any organisms that may have penetrated into the tissues beyond the sloughing area, for, in scraping a