INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 171 minuteness required for all operations in this situation; micro-organisms are very abundant in the folds about the toes and nails. Syphilitic Onychia may either develop in the nail itself, when it is called ungual onychia, or around it, in which case it is said to be of the peri-ungual variety. (a) Ungual onychia.—The first form of syphilitic onychia chiefly affects the nails of the hands, which become friable and often partially detached. It is a condition closely resembling psoriasis, and occurs about the same time as the squamous syphilides on the skin. Treatment.—This is mainly that for secondary syphilis (see Part I., p. 231). In addition, the finger should be wrapped up in mercurial plaster or unguentum hydrargyri, or a 5% oleate of mercury may be rubbed into and beneath the nail. (b) Peri-ungual onychia.-—The more common and troublesome form of syphilitic onychia is that in which the parts around the nail are attacked; the affection may be of two forms^—dry or ulcerating. The dry form is really a papular or papulo-squamous syphilide occurring at the fold of the nail. The inflammation is, however, pretty severe, and at first sight it may be thought to be of a suppurative character; no suppuration or ulcera- tion however takes place. This condition is treated similarly to the last. At a somewhat later period of secondary syphillis ulceration is met with, and this is chiefly due to the presence of condylomata about the base of the nail, and is most frequent on the toes. The result is that a fungating ulceration, with an abundant foetid sero-purulent secretion, occurs about the nail; it may entirely surround the latter, or it may only affect one side ; in the former case the nail falls off, and the condition is more tractable. In some cases it extends deeply, and may lead to disease of the bone. The treatment of this form of syphilitic onychia is essentially that of secondary syphilis. The application of mercurial ointment, a 5% oleate of mercury, or a dusting powder of calomel and starch (i to 3) to the part, are of considerable use, and, in addition, it is advisable to remove the whole nail; it is rare for the disease to be cured until this has been done. The unhealthy ulcerated surface should then be thoroughly cauterized with nitrate of silver or acid nitrate of mercury, and the mercurial preparations above-mentioned applied to it. As a rule, the affection subsides rapidly under this treatment, combined with that appropriate for secondary syphilis in general, and the new nail grows again without any particular deformity. Tuberculous onychia.—The fourth form of onychia is tuberculous onychia, which is more often termed onychia maligna. This is a disease which occurs in infancy or adolescence, and is probably always of a tuber- culous nature. In scrofulous people a traumatic onychia frequently develops into this form, instead of getting well, as would be the case were the patient healthy. The disease, which may involve several fingers, gives rise to a livid swelling, at first at the base of the nail and later on spreading around it. This swelling ulcerates and fungates, the nail becomes black and soft,