ANEURYSMS OF THE UPPER ARM AND FORE-ARM. 341 overlapped by the supinator longus muscle. Lower down still it lies to the outer side of the flexor carpi radialis. (rt) In tbe Upper Third of the Foreaxm.—To ligature the vessel in the upper third of its course, an incision should be made along the line of the artery, and, after division of the skin and fascia, the interval between the supinator longus and the pronator radii teres is identified. The elbow is then flexed, the two muscles separated and the supinator longus pulled firmly outwards by a retractor, when the artery will be at once exposed (see Fig. 116). The radial nerve here lies from a quarter to half an inch on the outer side of the vessel and should not come into view. Fig. 116.—Ligature of the Right Radial in the Upper Third.— P.T. Pronator radii teres. N. Radial nerve. S.B. Supinator brevis. S. Supinator longus. A. Radial artery. V. Venae comites. {d) In the Middle Third of the Forearm.—If the vessel is to be tied in the middle third of the forearm the incision should be made along the line of the artery in that situation ; the division between the supinator longus and the flexor carpi radialis is identified and the muscles separated, the former being pulled outwards and the latter inwards, when the vessel will be seen lying upon the radial origin of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor sublimis digitorum. The radial nerve is still to the outer side of the vessel, but in somewhat closer proximity to it (see Fig. 117). (c) In the Lower Third of the Forearm.—^Just above the vvrist joint the artery lies on the radial side of the flexor carpi radialis, and can usually be felt as it rests upon the pronator quadratus muscle. An incision is made over it along the outer border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and this will immediately expose the vessel which lies upon the pronator quadratus with a vein on each side of it (see Fig. 118). The radial nerve has left the artery and is here on the back of the forearm. (d) On the Back of the Wrist.—At the lower border of the pronator quadratus the artery dips down deeply to the back of the hand, and passes beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb. It then turns forward to pass through the first interosseous space into the palm of the hand, and may be reached by an incision on the back of the hand extending from the upper end of the first interosseous space along the ulnar side of the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. When this tendon is pulled outwards the artery will be found between the bases of the first and second metacarpal bones dipping down beneath the tendinous arch joining the two heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (see Fig. 119).