THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. 6l long piece of strapping which now hangs over from the front of the splint is next carried up along the anterior surface of the thigh, the foot mean- while being held at right angles, and the knee in the fully extended position. The strapping is applied to the limb, and fastened in position by a bandage, which commences just beneath- the patella and is carried up to about the centre of the thigh. The free upper end of the strapping is then turned down, and the bandage carried downwards over it; in this way the strapping is thoroughly incorporated with the bandage, and both are firmly fastened to the skin of the thigh. Should the strapping slip, as it generally does, after two or three days, it is not necessary to apply fresh strapping in order to tighten it, but a second bandage may be applied over the old one, and carried down rather further below the patella; this will keep the strapping taut. The patient should be encouraged to walk wearing this apparatus; the effect of this is that, as the splint is longer than the foot, considerable leverage is exerted upon the ankle joint, and the latter is well bent as the patient walks. The flexion is far more effectually carried out than if the foot were simply encased in a shoe. By the use of this apparatus, also, the calf muscles are left free, and massage can be applied to them. The apparatus will generally require renewal about once a week. About six weeks after the operation, more vigorous exercise should be commenced, and this may be carried out while the patient is wearing the splint just described. The following exercise is of considerable value. The patient stands upright, the heels together, and the soles flat on the ground, and he then gradually sinks downward, flexing the knees and hips until he is able to touch the ground with the tips of the fingers, when he again gradually resumes the upright position. This should be done from six to ten times in succession, and should be repeated several times during the day. At the same time massage and galvanism should be applied to the calf muscles, and for about six weeks after the operation the patient should wear either the apparatus just described, or some other form of artificial splint which is so arranged as to raise the toes when he walks. As a general rule it will be found best, after about eight weeks from the time of the operation, to employ a surgical boot, furnished on each side of the leg with irons attached to a band passing around the upper part of the leg, and made with a hinge opposite the ankle joint, fitted with a stop to prevent the foot being extended beyond the right angle. It is well to have this boot made somewhat longer than the foot, for it then acts in a manner similar to the splint we have described, and exerts a greater leverage than if it were the exact length of the foot. This boot is of course more sightly and convenient than the splint, and it may with advantage be fitted with a spring which tends to keep the toes raised and the heel depressed (see Fig. 29); this is especially necessary when the tendo Achillis was much contracted prior to its division.