PT. II. N BURSITIS. take place in the wall of the bursa. In the early stages the cavity is merely distended with fluid, and the inner surface of its wall becomes covered with a layer of lymph; this leads to thickening of the wall of the bursa, and, very often, to the formation of adhesions between its opposite surfaces. In this way are produced bands crossing the bursa, or tags hanging into it, and the latter may become detached, and form loose bodies in the interior. In fact the chief cause of the constant recurrence of chronic bursitis, after it has subsided under treatment by rest and counter-irritation, is the presence in the bursa of these loose bodies or tags. As time goes on, the wall becomes more and more thickened and fibrous, until, ultimately, it may practically become converted into a fibrous tumour with a very small cavity containing a little fluid. Often, as the result of a little extra irritation, the ca\-ity fills up with blood-stained fluid. Treatment.—(a) Radical.—The treatment of chronic bursitis should be radical wherever it is possible. Undoubtedly the best of all methods of treating the aff'ection is to excise the sac en- tirely, and thus in the long run a great deal of time is saved. This method of treatment moreover is absolutely essential when the bursal wall is much thickened, or when there are bands or loose bodies present in the in- terior. In any case, however, when once a chronic bursitis is established, it is best to excise the bursa completely. In dealing thus, for instance, with a prepatellar bursa, the skin about the front of the knee should be purified with scrupulous care. The pre-patellar region is one of the spots where, owing to the thick- ness of the skin, and its frequent exposure to pressure, septic material is apt to accumulate, and where it is only got rid of with difficulty. A curved incision should be made around the swelling with the convexity upwards, its upper border coming just above the upper limit of the bursa, and its ends terminating a little to each side, well below the centre of the tumour (see Fig. 70). The flap thus marked out, consisting of skin and subcutaneous tissue, is turned down until the anterior surface of the enlarged bursa is fully exposed, and it is then quite easy to see the limits of its wall, and with a few strokes of the knife to detach the connective tissue around, and peel the whole thing off unopened from the front of the bone and the ligamentum patellae. There is no danger of wounding the joint if ordinary care be taken to keep close to the sac. After the bursa has been removed the wound is stitched up, an antiseptic dressing Fig. 70.—Incision for removal of thePre-patellarBursa. The sketch is designed to show the relative positions of the incision, the enlarged bursa and the patella (the shape of which is some- what incorrectly represented by the dotted line). The flap should be made as shown above, and not with its con- vexity downwards, as is sometimes done, as then the scar would be directly ex- posed to pressure on kneeling.