3 SUPERFLUOUS DIGITS. {l>) Whefi there is an actual articulation between the digit and the metacarpal bone (see Fig. i, B) it is not sufficient merely to remove the finger. If the articular surface be allowed to remain, a very marked swelling is left upon the side of the metacarpal bone, and the deformity tends to increase as time goes on from growth taking place beneath the articular surface; so that, by the time adult age is reached, a very unsightly pro- jection is to be seen. Hence it is necessary to remove both the superfluous digit and the articular surface upon the metacarpal bone to which it is attached. Formerly, an operation of this kind was considered dangerous because of the risk of suppuration and osteomyelitis; nowadays, of course, this point need not be considered. The procedure to be adopted is quite simple. The flaps are so planned that there shall be no excess of tissue left when they are brought together; after the finger has been disarticulated and removed, the articular surface on the metacarpal is exposed, and enough bone is chiselled away to render the shaft of the bone uniform in thickness throughout. {c) When there is a supernumerary metacarpal bone articulating with the carpus (see Fig. i, C), the amputation must remove it as well as the finger; when that has been done, enough bone must be chipped off the side of the carpus by a chisel to make the outline of the hand resemble that of the opposite side. This, of course, involves opening the wrist joint, and therefore the most minute attention must be given to the antiseptic precautions; in fact, the operation is not one that ought to be undertaken unless the surgeon be quite certain of his ability to keep the wound aseptic. The results, however, from the point of view of the symmetry of the hand are very satisfactory, as, with a little care, it is easy to obliterate the unsightly projection at the side of the wrist and so to leave little or no trace of the deformity. {d) In the case of a bifid finger, especially a bifid terminal phalanx of the thumb (see Fig. i, D), the result of treatment is not nearly so satis- factory. Usually the two portions of the phalanx diverge from each other so that whichever be removed, the one remaining is out of line with the rest of the limb, and it is very difficult to bring it properly straight; that, however, must be the aim of the operation. In the first place, the phalanx which deviates most from the axis of the finger (usually the smaller of the two) should be amputated by an elliptical incision over the corresponding side of the digit. When the phalanx is not completely bifid it should be split down to its base with bone forceps and the desired half removed. After this has been done, the lateral ligaments on the opposite side of the joint will usually require division, so that the part of the phalanx left may be brought into line with the rest of the finger; any other structures that are tense and resist reposition must also be divided. Suitable dress- ings and splints should then be applied to keep the phalanx in its proper position, and the retentive apparatus must be worn for a considerable time; usually three or four months must elapse before it can be left off".