ANEURYSMS OF THE UPPER ARM AND FORE-ARM. 343 Ligature of the Ulnax Artery.—The ulnar artery lies deeply at the upper part of the forearm, and is usually only tied in the lower third. The incisions for ligature of the vessel are made along a line extending from the internal condyle of the humerus to the radial side of the pisiform bone. (a) In the Middle Third of the Forearm.—Should it be necessary to tie the artery in its middle third, an incision is made in the line of the vessel commencing at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm, and running downwards for about three inches. After the fascia has been divided, the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is identified, and the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum is opened up. The flexor carpi ulnaris is pulled inwards, and the flexor sublimis outwards, when the ulnar nerve will be seen lying upon the flexor profundus digitorum ; the ulnar artery lies somewhat external to it (see Fig. 120). {6) In the Lower Third of the Forearm.—^Just above the wrist the artery lies to the outer (or radial) side of the flexor carpi ulnaris with the flexor sublimis digitorum immediately external to it. An incision should be made along the outer border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the deep fascia divided, the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum and palmaris longus pulled outwards and that of the flexor carpi ulnaris pulled inwards, when the artery will be at once exposed (see Fig. 118). The ulnar nerve lies to the inner (or ulnar) side of the vessel and is not usually seen. ANEURYSMS OF THE LOWER PIXTREMITY. ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Aneurysm of the external iliac is generally met with in the lower part of the vessel and is of the sacculated variety, although rarely it may be fusiform; in the latter case it generally spreads downwards and affects the common femoral trunk. The symptoms and course are those usually met with in aneurysm elsewhere, the pressure symptoms being chiefly referred to the anterior crural and genito-crural nerves. TREATMENT.—Instrumental compression, by Lister's abdominal tourniquet, for example, has been employed in some cases, but this if persisted in for any length of time, is very apt to cause serious bruising of the intestines, and seldom succeeds in effecting a cure. Undoubtedly the best treatment is to apply a proximal ligature wherever it can be done. The exact spot at which the ligature is applied will depend upon the situation of the aneurysm. If possible the external iliac trunk should be tied, but where the aneurysm is situated so high up that there is no room for the application of a ligature between it and the bifurcation, the common iliac may be tied. The iliac vessels run along the brim of the pelvis; the right com- mon iliac artery crosses both the right and left common iliac veins above, while lower down the vein of the right side lies behind and some- what external to it. In front of the vessel is the peritoneum, the lower attachment of the mesentery being situated close to its origin, whilst the artery is crossed by the ureter at or near its bifurcation. On the left side the iliac vein lies internal to and behind the artery throughout the