48 CLUB-FOOT. rectified by manipulation alone; these are the cases in which there are no shortened structures to materially impede the re-position of the foot, and where the deformity in the bones is only slight. (2) Cases in which the condition has lasted for a longer time, and which are marked by shortening of the tendons and ligaments, resulting from the long-continued faulty position of the limb; when these contracted structures are divided the foot can still be replaced in its proper position with a little effort, the alterations in the bones not having yet reached such an extent as to offer any great impediment to its performance. (3) The third group consists of those cases in which the deformity has lasted for a very considerable time, and where the obstacles to reduction are not merely the presence of tight tendons, ligaments, and fasciae, but are caused by the alterations in the bones themselves (more especially in the direction and extent of the articular surfaces) which have reached such an extent that re-position by mechanical means is impossible. These alterations in the bones consist, as we have already said, partly in changes in their shape and direction, and partly in alterations in the articular car- tilages. Whenever, as the result of the faulty position of the foot, some portion of the articular cartilage has remained for a long time out of contact with the articular surface of the corresponding bone, fibroid changes occur in it converting it into fibro-cartilage; ultimately the whole of the uncovered portion of the articular surface becomes completely des- troyed. Thus, even when the bones are placed in proper position, the opposed surfaces are no longer covered with articular cartilage. Besides this, alterations in the shape of the bone beneath may also develop. This is generally in the direction of over-growth, so that it is no longer possible to bring the two joint surfaces into proper relation with each other, and before this can be done some alteration in their shape must be made mechanically. A very important point to remember in the treatment of all cases of club-foot is that the patient must not be regarded as cured as soon as the foot has been got into its proper position, or even after it has been maintained in its new position for some weeks. As a matter of fact, if the treatment be left off too soon, a relapse takes place almost at once and the subsequent condition may become almost as bad as or even worse than if no treatment at all had been employed. Hence, in all cases of club-foot, it must be impressed on the parents that the treatment should be continued for a long time, even after apparent complete recovery; several years at least should be devoted to it. (i) In the cases in which, it is possible without the exercise of any force to get the foot into its normal position, the treatment will consist in the methodical employment of manipulations so as to keep the parts stretched, and the adoption of means designed to strengthen the action of any muscles that may be deficient in power; and further, in overcoming the bony deformity which already exists, and a fortiori in