CONTENTS. Contusion or Rupture of Nerves—Pathological Changes—Symptoms—Treat- ment, ......... 247-248 Wounds of Nerves—Changes that occur in a Nerve after Division—Changes that occur when Union takes places between the divided ends—Treatment of Partial and Complete Division—Treatment of recent Cases: Primary Nerve Suture— After-Treatment.—Treatment where Cicatrization of the Wound has taken place : Secondary Nerve Suture.—Plastic Operations: Bridging with Catgut and Enclosure in a Decalcified Bone Tube—Nerve-Grafting—Excision of Bone—Nerve Implantation—Results of Nerve Suture, - . . . . 248-257 Inflammatory Affections : Neuritis—Varieties—Local and General Causes—Pathological Changes—Diagnosis from Neurarlgia—Treatment: Prophylactic—When Neuritis is established : Treat- ment of Acute Form—Treatment in Chronic Form : Operative Treatment: Nerve Stretching—Neurotomy—Neurectomy—Excision of Posterior Nerve Roots— Acupuncture—Summary of Treatment, ..... 257-269 "Neuralgia—Definition—Symptoms—Treatment: Medical—Operative, - 269-270 Convulsive Tic—Symptoms and Treatment, ..... 270 Tumours—Neuromata: Treatment—Malignant Tumours : Treatment, - 270-271 ■Operations for Exposure of the Main Nerve Trunks in the Upper Extremity—Median Nerve—Ulnar Nerve—Musculo-Spiral Nerve, - 271-273 •Operations for Exposing the Main Nerve Trunks in the Lower E.XTREMITY—Great Sciatic Nerve—Internal Popliteal Nerve—External Popliteal Nerve—Anterior Crural Nerve—Internal Saphenous Nerve, - - 273-274 Chapter XIX.—The Surgic.a.l Affections of Veins. Wounds—Operation and Accidental Wounds—Complications—Treatment: Of Hsemorrhage—Of Entry of Air, 275-278 Inflammatory Affections : Phlebitis and Thrombosis—Causes—Pathological Changes—Symptoms—Treat- ment : Acute Septic Phlebitis—Sub-acute and Chronic Phlebitis—Gouty Phlebitis Rheumatic Phlebitis—Post-Typhoid Phlebitis—Treatment of Resulting CEdema, 278-283 "Varicose Veins—Causes—Pathological Changes—Varieties—Complications: OLdema —Phlebitis—Eczema—Ulceration —Treatment: Question of Operative or Pallia- tive Measures—Radical Treatment: Excision and After-Treatment—Palliative Treatment: Removal of Cause—Relief of Congestion—Massage and Active Exercise—Mechanical Support—Martin's India-rubber Bandage—Elastic Band- ages—Elastic Stockings, 283-292 Chapter XX.—The Surgical Affections of Arteries. Traumatic Affections—Wounds—Injuries, ..... 293 Arteritis—Acute Arteritis—Chronic Arteritis : End-Arteritis Obliterans—Atheroma —Atheromatous Abscess—Treatment: Acute Arteritis—Chronic Arteritis, 294-295 Aneurysm—Definition of True and False Aneurysm, ----- 295 False Aneurysm—Causes—Diffuse Aneurysmal Ilcematoma—Treatment, 296-297 Arterio-Venous Aneurysm^—Varicose Aneurysm—Aneurysmal Varix—Treat- ment of the two forms, ....... 298-300 True Aneurysm—Causes—Results: Spontaneous Cure—Diffuse Aneurysm—Dis- secting Aneurysm.—Varieties : Sacculated Aneurysm—Fusiform Aneurysm— Symptoms. —Treatment: Medical—Tufnell's Method—Drugs—Valsalva's Method. —Surgical: Ligature of the Artery—Point at which the Ligature should be