CHAPTER VI. CURVATURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. (COXA VARA.) Of late years a good deal of attention has been paid to certain deformities which result from an alteration in the normal curvatures of the neck of the femur and which are now for the most part grouped together under the term Coxa Vara; this term is, however, misleading, since only a certain proportion of the cases show a deformity to which the term varus is strictly applicable. We prefer therefore to speak of them merely as curvatures of the neck of the femur. CAUSES.—These deformities are met with at two periods of life ; in infants or quite young children of about three or four years of age, and in young adults between the ages of thirteen and eighteen. It is said that the affection is sometimes congenital, and it is possible that some of the cases met with in early infancy are of this nature. There is still considerable uncertainty as to the exact etiology of the disease; it is possible that the deformity occurs in infants as the result of some mal- position in utero, as it is difificult to account for it on the ground of any faulty position assumed by the child while lying down or being carried in arms. There can, however, be no doubt that the deformity, as met with in young children, results in the great majority of cases from softening of the bones due to rickets. It is also highly probable that a large pro- portion of cases in young adults owe their origin to the condition that goes by the name of " rachitis adolescentium." In some of the adult cases, however, no signs of rickets are to be traced, and these have been attributed variously to rheumatoid arthritis, to osteitis, or to causes unknown; it is certainly the fact that the affection may supervene upon a mild attack of rheumatism. The deformity generally occurs in those whose occupations involve continuous and prolonged standing or carrying of heavy weights. By some it is held that the disease is more common in young adults than in infants, but this is very doubtful; certainly, since