CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA. 96 rubbed one by one, the rest kept covered meanwhile. The back, if weak, should also be rubbed. Children will not take cold if they are carefully dried, especially the head and ears, and are well warmed after the bath. 3. Children with bow legs or knock knees should not be allowed to stand, walk, or crawl. If their backs are growing out, they should be kept lying on their backs. A perusal of these rules will show that the dietetic treatment consists largely in the avoidance of too much farinaceous food, and—a point of particular importance—the withholding of it at an early period of hfe. The hygienic treatment is directed essentially to obtaining an unlimited supply of pure fresh air and sunshine. The children should, if possible, be sent away to the country, and of course any other measures for improving the general health that may be found appropriate to any individual case should be adopted. Amongst drugs, cod-liver oil is the most generally useful, and in these cases it may be combined with phosphorus, j^ih of a grain of the drug being combined with each dose of the oil. Viniim ferri (dose Si-iij)) or syrup of the hypo-phosphites (dose 3ss—3j) may also be given. The state of the digestive organs will require particular attention, and especial care has to be taken to prevent the occurrence of constipation. Local Treatment.— i. It is important to bear in mind that, in the early stages of the disease, there is a marked tendency to the spontaneous cure of the curvature, and to facilitate this the first essential is to prevent the patient walking, and thus to lake the weight of the body off the feet, and so to avoid increasing the curve mechanically. Appropriate general treatment must of course not be neglected. In many of the slighter cases, when the patient is properly dieted, put under suitable hygienic con- ditions, and prevented from bearing weight upon the limb or from lying with the limb on its outer side (which would increase the curve), the bones undergo solidification, and the curve not only ceases to extend, but may actually disappear entirely. 2. In the more advanced cases it is necessary to take some active steps to correct the deformity, and, when there is a distinct bending of bones which are still soft (as will be the case when the ricketty condition is active), the employment of suitable splints^ combined with taking the child off his feet and the administration of suitable internal remedies, will often ensure a perfectly satisfactory result. The best form of splint for this purpose is a straight internal one of wood, made slightly wider than the antero-posterior diameter of the leg. It should extend from just below the internal condyle of the femur to six or eight inches beyond the sole. It requires careful padding above and below opposite the tuberosity of the tibia and the malleolus, so as to avoid the possibility of ulceration from pressure. The splint is made to extend well beyond the foot in order to prevent the patient putting the toes to the