CYSTS. 211 perforate the sterno-mastoid and set up tuberculosis there. In psoas abscess, which is a tuberculous abscess extending down the sheath or in the substance of the psoas muscle, the psoas may be more or less com- pletely destroyed by the tuberculous growth. The treatment of tuberculosis of muscles is the same as that of local tuberculosis in other tissues; namely, excision if possible, or, if not, scrap- ing and general treatment. SYPHILIS. Syphilis of muscle may be met with both in the secondary and tertiary stage. In secondary syphilis, generalized muscular pains are not uncommon, as, for example, syphilitic lumbago, or syphilitic inflammation of the occipito- frontalis, giving rise to severe headache. In these cases the pain is more or less nocturnal, is increased on pressure, and is intermittent. These conditions yield readily to the treatment appropriate for secondary syphilis (see Part I., Chap. XII.). Tertiary lesions are rarer, and consist essentially of gummata in the muscles, which may be followed by sclerosis. The treatment called for here is identical with that necessary for gummata in other situations, and has been dealt with in Part I., Chap. XII. If much sclerosis sub- sequently occur, it must be dealt with on the lines laid down for the treatment of the similar condition resulting from chronic myositis (see p. 209). In congenital syphilis a painful mass is found in the sterno-mastoid muscle during the first few months of life, and this is generally looked upon as a gummatous condition. Sometimes, no doubt, these are simple h^matomata occurring during birth, but sometimes, undoubtedly, they are tertiary lesions, and yield very readily to mercurial inunction, which is best done over the sterno-mastoid itself. At the same time internal treatment with mercury and iodide of potassium is of benefit. CYSTS. HYDATID CYSTS are not at all uncommon; something like 2% of all cases occur in the muscles. Those most frequently affected are the adductors of the thigh, the trunk muscles (more especially those of the lumbar region), and the pectorals. The cyst is usually embedded in the substance of the muscle, and around it the muscular substance becomes thinned, degenerated, and fibrous. The treatment of hydatid cysts occurring in muscles should consist in opening and shelling out the whole cyst wall. It is not necessary to take away the fibrous wall surrounding the true cyst wall, but the latter, which lies within the fibrous capsule, should be thoroughly peeled off. If this be impossible, the cyst must be freely opened and drained, and it is well also to scrape the wall.