SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES. 294 ARTERITIS. Like other structures, arteries may be the seat of either acute or chronic inflammation. ACUTE ARTERITIS involves all the coats of the artery, and usually results either from the presence of a septic thrombus in the interior, or from extension of inflammation from the surrounding tissues to the coats of the artery; in this instance a peri-arteritis occurs first. Of CHRONIC ARTERITIS one of the most common forms is end-arteritis obliterans, in which the internal coat becomes very markedly thickened, and ultimately either obliterates the lumen of the vessel or leads to thrombosis, so that the artery is completely obstructed. This condition may occur in various diseases, more particularly in syphilis where it affects the small vessels, in alcoholism, in diabetes, etc. Atheroma.—This is a still more chronic and limited form of end- arteritis which is of great importance in connection with aneurysm. In atheroma the inflammation occurs in the deeper part of the internal coat of the artery, and results in the formation there of a mass of young cells which tend to undergo organization into fibrous tissue. This attempt, however, usually fails; fatty degeneration takes place, and one of two things happens—either the degenerated mass bursts into the interior of the artery (the condition spoken of as atheromatous abscess), or lime salts are deposited in it and form calcareous plates which render the artery rigid and which also tend to project through the endo- thelial lining membrane; coagulation of blood subsequently takes place on the rough edges of the plates. This condition does not usually remain limited to the internal coat, but spreads to the middle one, and there leads to softening and partial destruction of the muscular tissue. The result is either weakening of the wall of the vessel, which dilates, or the deposit of lime salts and calcification of the middle coat, the vessel becoming converted into a calcareous tube. Atheroma is usually diffuse, and affects a number of vessels, especially the larger ones such as the aorta. It occurs chiefly in old people, more often in men than in women, and it seems to bear some relation to syphilis, gout, and the other con- ditions already mentioned as giving rise to end-arteritis. Treatment.—There is practically no cure for these inflammatory conditions of arteries. The only thing left for the surgeon to do is to try to arrest the spread of the disease, and particularly to guard against the consequences that may ensue. (a) Acute Arteritis.—The ordinary sequela of acute arteritis is the occurrence of multiple abscesses and pyemia, which it is a matter of very great difficulty to avoid. Acute arteritis is usually part of an extensive septic process and is not a disease strictly limited to the coat of the artery itself; it is therefore only seldom that any treatment can be brought