SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS. 234 other hand, rupture of the quadriceps femoris tendon does not usually give nearly such a satisfactory result if treated merely by position. With the latter form of treatment the worst results are those obtained in the case of tendons, such as those of the fingers and thumb, which run in long and rigid tendon sheaths ; in these cases union is rare. This fact must also be borne in mind in performing tenotomy; these particular tendons should not be divided opposite the fingers or in parts where the ends are free to retract for a long distance; wherever possible they should be divided in the fore-arm. We shall take as examples of this affection rupture of the tendo Achillis and of the ligamentum patellae, and shall indicate the treatment appropriate for them. (a) Rupture of the tendo AcMUis.—In rupture of the tendo AchiUis, treatment by position is usually sufficient. A band is secured around the thigh; this may be either a leather strap, furnished with a buckle or ring, or, if this be unobtainable, the thigh may be encircled by a piece of strapping. A length of bandage is inserted beneath the strapping at the centre of the posterior aspect of the limb, and knotted in a loop. A slipper is then put on the foot, and in the heel a hole is made through which another piece of bandage passes, and this is also tied into a loop. Then by means of a piece of elastic bandage or india-rubber tubing pass- ing between these two loops, the heel is drawn up and at the same time the knee is flexed (see Fig. 85), with the result that the divided ends of the tendon remain in fairly good apposition (although they are not absolutely in contact), and union occurs as a rule quite satisfactorily. This apparatus must be kept on continuously for about a fortnight, and then the tension of the elastic should be diminished and the patient encouraged to move the ankle joint. The apparatus may be left off entirely after about three weeks, but the patient should not be allowed to stand on the foot until five weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury. Between the third and the fifth week he should lie in bed and be encouraged to move the foot, and a certain amount of passive movement may be prac- tised with the object of preventing the adhesion of the newly formed tendon to the surrounding parts. After five weeks he may be allowed to walk about, at first with the assistance of a crutch or stick. In many cases he regains complete power without any massage being required. Fig. 85.—Treatment of Rupture of Tendo Achillis by Position.—This is sufficiently clear from the figure. Should the thigh-band tend to slip, as it often will from wasting of the muscles, it may be kept in position by fastening it to a band round the waist.