CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 135 of the flexed thigh must be carried out very gradually, and with the greatest care, so as to avoid the risk of fracturing the femur. This movement is the chief agent by which the anterior portion of the capsule is stripped from the acetabulum. When it has been done it is generally possible to actually feel the head of the bone slip into the cleft of the acetabulum, and, by forcibly rolling the limb outwards, the front part of the capsular ligament is stretched to its utmost limit; this object is also facilitated by forcibly extending the abducted limb (see Fig. 63). These manipulations must be repeated several times. (3) Fixation of the limb.—With the successful reduction of the dis- location by these manipulations the first part of the procedure comes to an end, but the second part, namely, the prevention of further dislocation, is not in any way attained, for, on any attempt to adduct the limb, the head of the bone at once slips out of place. As a rule, in bad cases, the least diminution of the abduction from a right angle is followed by the immediate reproduction of the deformity, and it is therefore evident that, in order to prevent this, the limb must be kept for a considerable time with the head of the bone pressed inwards against the acetabulum, and abducted almost to a right angle. If the manipulations above described, namely, flexion, abduction, inward and outward rotation, and over-extension, be carried out repeatedly at this first sitting, it will often be found that after a short time, as the soft parts become more detached and stretched, re-luxation does not so readily occur as it did when adduction was first attempted, and it will, therefore, be possible to diminish the abduction to a slight extent. This is of importance, for the position of complete abduction Fig. 64.—LoRENz's Non-operative Method for Congenital Dislocation of THE Hip. Third Stage. The limit of stability of the joint having been found in the last stage, the lower extremity is put up in the above position, the knee being flexed. is extremely irksome to the child if maintained for a long time, and, there- fore, to diminish it even by only a few degrees, is of distinct advantage. Hence, at the end of the sitting, the exact degree of abduction neces- sary to keep the head of the bone in place should be tested ; after this has been ascertained and the head of the bone brought opposite the aceta- bulum, the limb is kept abducted to this extent, or rather beyond it, rotated strongly outwards, and moderately over-extended. The whole limb and the