INFLAMMATORY AFp-ECTIONS. especially frequent on parts which are subject to friction. The organism usually found in them is the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. In the early stage of a boil there is a small swelling, in the centre of which appears a vesicle containing rusty-coloured fluid; from the middle of this a hair generally protrudes. In three or four days the boil develops into a bright red, somewhat conical swelling, which may at this time abort; if it does not, it increases in size, the apex becomes yellow from the presence of pus, and finally perforation occurs, and the pus escapes. At the bottom of the opening thus formed a white slough is seen, and this is usually cast off about the eighth or tenth day. As soon as the slough separates, healing rapidly occurs. The prognosis is usually favourable except where some grave consti- tutional disease, such as diabetes, is present, or where the affection occurs on the face or the lip, when it may be followed by the most serious septic troubles. In any case, lymphangitis and inflammation of the neighbouring glands are very common, whilst phlebitis, septicaemia, pyaemia, and erysipelas occasionally follow, especially in the case of boils on the face. It is very common for one boil to be followed by others in the vicinity; this is the result of local infection, the pus from the original boil spreading over the skin and being rubbed in by the friction of the clothes. Treatment—Local.—In carrying out the local treatment the points mentioned at the end of the last paragraph should be borne in mind, and, with the view of preventing the appearance of fresh boils, steps should be taken in the first place to purify the skin in the vicinity of the boil, so as to get rid of the infective material which may have soaked into it. The skin around the boil should be shaved and thoroughly disinfected, and then some 10% oleate of mercury should be smeared over it so as to destroy the cocci that have got on to the skin. The latter should be frequently (once or twice daily) and thoroughly cleansed subsequently with soap and sublimate solution (1-2000), and the application of the oleate should be renewed after each washing. Friction by the clothes should be carefully avoided. When the boil is on the neck, for example, collars should be left off and soft shirts worn. It is also well in the case of boils on the body or limbs to have the underclothing changed daily, and to see that the underclothing left off is thoroughly boiled. As regards the treatment of the boil itself, if care be taken in the early stage it may abort; the chief point in the treatment is that the boil should be left alone and shielded from injury. The skin should be carefully disinfected, the surface of the boil painted with flexile collodion every day, and friction avoided, if necessary, by the employment of a shield. The best form of shield is one made of celluloid (see Fig. 66), of sufficient size to protect the inflamed area completely without pressing on it. If there be much pain, warm boracic fomentations may be easily applied beneath the shield. At the same time, general treatment {vide infra) should be employed. PT. II. K