43 FLAT FOOT. into proper position. It is performed as follows. After the patient has been put under the anaesthetic and the parts thoroughly disinfected, the surgeon attempts, by means of the hand, aided, if necessary, by a wrench, to break down adhesions, and to bring the parts as far as possible into good position. In doing this it may be found necessary to divide the peroneal tendons. After the various structures have been loosened in this way, an incision is made along the inner aspect of the foot, extending from just below the anterior margin of the internal malleolus, downwards and forwards to a point beyond the tubercle of the scaphoid. In deepen- ing the incision the tendon of the tibialis anticus must be carefully avoided; it can readily be drawn out of the way with a retractor. The joint between the astragalus and scaphoid is then exposed by dividing the ligaments, and then, by means of a periosteum detacher insinuated beneath it, the whole of the articular cartilage covering the head of the astragalus and the corresponding part of the scaphoid, is stripped off. If after doing this it is still impossible, owing to the altered shape and increased size of the astragalus, to bring the foot into proper position, enough of that bone may be removed with a chisel to enable this to be effected. The foot is then forcibly inverted and adducted, whilst at the same time the arch of the instep is raised by depressing the metatarsal bones and toes. When the foot has been thus brought into a satisfactory position, a hole is drilled through the scaphoid from before backwards and outwards and continued on into the head of the astragalus. Through this is inserted an ivory peg which serves to keep the bones steady in their proper position; the peg is cut off flush with the scaphoid. The wound is then closed without a drainage tube, and antiseptic dressings are applied, outside which a plaster of Paris casing, extending from the base of the toes up to about the centre of the calf, is immediately put on, the foot being held in proper position while the plaster sets. If no pain be complained of, the casing need not be disturbed for about six weeks after the operation, by which time bony union will be fairly complete, and the patient may be allowed to walk. Should there be any pain, however, or should the case become loose, it must be removed, the wound re-dressed, and a fresh casing applied. At first, after leaving off the plaster of Paris, the arch of the instep should be supported by a Whitman's spring, but this can generally be discarded in about two months. The boots should be well made with a high arch to the instep, and the latter should be still further supported by extending the heel forwards (see p. 40). The objections urged against this operation are partly that it is not always easy in bad cases to bring the foot into proper position after it, and partly that the transverse tarsal joint loses its mobility and that therefore the foot is deprived to a certain extent of its normal elasticity. Nevertheless, the actual result is a vast improvement upon the condition of the patient before operation, and is far better than any result that can