223 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. at the upper or lower end of the incision, where a sufficient amount of the sheath has not been removed at the first operation. When the affec- tion is situated in the palmar bursa, the operation is performed in a similar manner, the annular ligament being split as already described on p. 219, and the tendon sheath dissected out. Short of this, which is by far the best method of treating these cases, the next best plan is to scrape away as much of the tuberculous material as possible, and to inject iodoform and glycerine emulsion. If it be not desirable to give an anaesthetic for the purpose, a hypodermic needle may be introduced into the cavity, any fluid that is present drawn off, and the emulsion then injected without withdrawing the needle. The non-operative methods of treatment which may have to be employed in some cases are very unsatisfactory. They consist in fixation of the part on a suitable splint for a very prolonged period. Simultaneously, firm pressure should be applied by means of a large mass of cotton wool wrapped around the limb with a bandage stiffened with gum or starch outside it. In the hand, for example, the limb is fixed on a splint with the fingers in a semi-flexed position, the metacarpus extended, and the thumb hanging down over the side of the splint, and not applied closely to the forefinger lest stiffness occur, when the power of opposition of the thumb to the fingers would be lost. The starch and cotton wool bandage is then firmly applied. At the same time the patient should be placed under the best hygienic conditions obtainable; he should, if possible, be sent to the country, and cod-liver oil and a plentiful nourishing diet should be administered. The results, however, are usually very unsatisfactory, and unless some radical treatment be employed, the condition is likely to become complicated with disease of a neighbouring joint. When a case of this kind is complicated with joint or bone disease, the chances of eradicating the mischief, either by expectant or by operative treatment, are comparatively small. Expectant treatment is almost certain to lead to disappointment, whilst operative treatment will generally require to be too extensive to be feasible. When both the joint and the tendon sheaths lying over it are diseased, it would be necessary not only to dissect away the tendon sheath, as already described, but also to perform arthrec- tomy of the joint; between the two, the chances of eradicating the disease, on the one hand, and of obtaining a useful limb, on the other, are very remote. An operation of this nature will also of necessity be a very pro- longed one, and the patient will be exposed to the danger of severe shock. In most cases, therefore, where well-marked disease of a joint co-exists with that of the tendon sheaths over it, amputation is the best practice. It is only when the disease in the joint is in quite an early stage and when the tendons involved are few in number that it is possible to content oneself with dissecting out the tendons sheaths and fixing the joint. But when the disease is extensive, and more especially when abscesses have formed in connection either with the sheaths or the joint, some radical