305 TRUE ANEURYSM. above and below, the older method of treatment of aneurysm by ligature was by applying the latter immediately above the sac—"Anel's operation." As a result of this, secondary haemorrhage frequently occurred, and suppura- tion in the sac was not at all uncommon. These accidents were at that time attributed partly to the diseased condition of the vessel at the seat of ligature, and partly to the direct irritation caused by the ligature upon the diseased vessel. Therefore, as time went on, the modification of ligaturing the artery at a distance from the sac, known as the " Hunterian operation," was substituted. The object of this was partly to ligature the vessel where it was quite healthy, partly to avoid irritation in the neighbourhood of the sac, and partly to favour the deposition of firm laminated clot by allowing a certain amount of the circulation to be carried on through the aneurysm by the agency of the smaller collateral branches. In other cases, when it was found impossible either to open the sac and tie the vessel on each side of the opening into it, or to apply a ligature on the proximal side, the artery has been tied on the distal side only,—"Wardrop's operation." The choice between the operation of proximal and distal ligature is practically determined entirely by the situation of the aneurysm and the possibility of applying the ligature on the proximal side. Wherever proximal ligature is feasible it should be chosen in preference to the distal one. The Force with which the Ligature should be tied.—This is a matter of some moment in the larger arteries, particularly the innominate, but in those of the size of the femoral downwards it does not seem to be a matter of great consequence so long as the ligature is tied sufificiently tightly to occlude the vessel. When a single round ligature is applied to a vessel it is found that, as it is tightened, the internal and middle coats give way and curl up within its lumen, whilst the external coat remains constricted by the ligature. Hence at first the only obstacle to- the escape of blood is this constricted external coat. Very shortly, however, blood-clot forms in the vessel, and this afterwards becomes organized and connects the divided internal and middle coats, while lymph is poured out and embeds the ligature, and later on organizes and offers a still further obstacle to the escape of blood. Some days or even weeks must however elapse before the organizing material inside and outside the vessel is sufficiently firm to resist the high blood pressure which exists for instance in the innominate artery. Hence the view is steadily gaining ground that in the larger arteries, such as the innominate, the ligature should not be tightened sufficiently to divide the internal and middle coats, but should only be drawn close enough to bring the walls of the vessel firmly together, and so to occlude its lumen. As the ligature is tightened, the artery folds up in pleats, which, as the tightening is continued, come into absolute contact (see Fig. 98). It is only when the force is carried still further that rupture of the internal or middle coat occurs, but even when this is avoided a sufficient amount of irritation results if the surfaces of the internal coat be brought PT. II. u