TRUE ANEURYSM. 301 length of time will often contain masses of clot arranged in layers and spoken of as laminated clot; this clot usually consists of more or less alternate layers of red and white clot. Coincidently with the formation of laminated clot in the aneurysm, the wall of the aneurysm is becoming steadily dilated, and the surrounding tissues partly atrophy as the result of pressure, and partly become condensed as the result of inflammation. It is important to remember that the endarteritis which leads to the formation of an aneurysm is not limited to the actual spot at which the aneurysm occurs, but is usually diffused over the wall for a considerable distance, and in the immediate vicinity of the aneurysm there may be, and frequently is, considerable general dilatation of the vessel. It may also be pointed out that while the sac is increasing in size, the flow of blood through the main artery beyond the aneurysm is delayed and sometimes considerably interfered with; as a consequence, branches which come off above the aneurysm are dilated, more blood flows through them, and their communications with branches below the aneurysm also become enlarged; in this way a free collateral circulation is established. This is a point of great importance both with regard to treatment and also with regard to the risks of gangrene should the aneurysm become diffuse. RESULTS.—Spontaneous Cure.—In some cases this formation of clot may go on until the aneurysmal sac becomes entirely filled up and a spon- taneous cure results; such an event is, however, comparatively rare. Perhaps the most common condition under which it arises is when the sac bulges upwards along the course of the artery, and, as it becomes larger, presses upon the latter above the aneurysm and diminishes, or, indeed, altogether arrests the flow of blood through it; the result is that the cavity becomes completely filled up with clot and ultimately obliterated.' Spontaneous cure of an aneurysm may also result from supptiration of the sac and the dis- charge of its contents. This very rarely takes place spontaneously, but in former times, when sepsis was frequent, it sometimes followed operations in the vicinity of the sac. Instead, however, of leading to a spontaneous cure of the .aneurysm, suppuration in the sac may lead to a fatal termina- tion from haemorrhage, or from general septic infection as the result of the escape of septic emboli into the lumen of the vessel. Generally, however, the clinical history of an aneurysm is that it gradually increases in size, causes absorption of the tissues around until it reaches a free surface, and then bursts and leads to fatal heemorrhage. Sometimes, however, it may rupture subcutaneously, and then death may ensue either from an extensive escape of blood into the cellular tissue, if this be very loose, or from gangrene of the parts below from pressure of the effused blood upon the arterial trunk and the collateral circulation. This condition is spoken of as diffuse aneurysm. Another condition, which, however, hardly comes under the notice of the surgeon, seeing that it is limited to the aorta, is that known as dissecting aneurysm, in which the blood