53 ACQUIRED CLUB-FOOT. healing process and for some time afterwards, be kept in the over- corrected position. On the other hand, however, in many cases, in spite of free removal of the cicatrix and the fascia, followed by wrenching, it is impossible to bring the foot into proper position; if the disability caused by the deformity be very great it will then be necessary to resort to some more severe procedure, such as the removal of portions of bones, or even amputation. The removal of a portion of bone may be called for to relieve the tension on the parts, and thus to permit of the foot being brought straight, but in the majority of cases it is not a very satisfactory procedure. Some- times, in bad cicatricial deformities about the back and sides of the leg in the neighbourhood of the ankle joint, removal of an inch or two of the tibia and fibula may enable the foot to be brought to a right angle, or even actually into its normal position, and it may be kept there by sub- sequent wiring of the divided ends. Even here, however, the result is not as a rule quite satisfactory, and that for two reasons; in the first place the contraction extends to the ankle joint itself, so that even when the leg is shortened sufficiently to prevent the contracted tissues from displacing the foot, the rigidity of the parts in the neighbourhood of the joint may still prevent the foot being brought into proper position. In the second place it is a matter of increased difficulty to bring the ankle joint into its proper position after the bones of the leg have been divided, for the lower fragments of the tibia and fibula are so short that it is impossible to get a proper purchase upon them in order to move the ankle joint, and break down adhesions in it. Nevertheless, this operation has in some cases been done with marked benefit. The cases in which it is most likely to be successful are those in which it is found that, when the knee is fully flexed, there is a certain amount of movement remaining in the ankle joint, so that the front of the foot can be to some extent, at any rate, brought up towards a right angle. In the majority of these cases the main deformity is that of talipes equinus, with possibly a little tendency to varus, and therefore in them it is more a question of getting the foot to a right angle than of overcoming any lateral displacement. Of course, if this operation be performed, the most scrupulous attention must be paid to antiseptic precautions. It is done by making an incision along the anterior border of the tibia, and a second one along the outer border of the fibula; the periosteum is then separated from the bones, and the requisite amount removed. It is well to make the section of the tibia oblique, so as to provide a larger surface for coaptation, and if this be done, the best method of uniting the bones afterwards is by screws. The fibula .should, in the first instance, be merely cut across with bone forceps or a saw, and when the necessary amount of the tibia has been removed it will at once be seen how much of the fibula must be excised. The two ends of the fibula should be fastened together by a silver wire of moderate thickness, whilst the tibia is united by two or three fairly long fine screws.