Il6 GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. the limb from the perineum to well beyond the foot, and which should be especially thickly padded opposite the ankle. As in the case of curved tibiae, these splints should be made to project two inches at least below the toes when the latter are fully pointed, so as to prevent any possibility of the child walking upon tip-toe. The limb may also be drawn inwards towards the splint by means of broad elastic bandages around the knee. The force exerted by these bandages must be carefully watched so as to prevent the formation of pressure sores. The same remark applies to the points of contact of the limb with the splint at the ankle and the thigh, where the pressure is considerable. As we have remarked in dealing with curved tibiae, a moderate amount of pressure is quite sufficient to produce a rectification of the curvature in the only cases in which the application of splints is likely to be of much benefit, that is to say, in those who are young and have very soft bones. In the more advanced cases, and in those in which the active stage of rickets has passed off, operative interference is often desirable. Here again, some surgeons fracture the bones by means of osteoclasts, but, as in the case of genu valgum, the procedure is not at all to be recommended, for the exact position and nature of the fracture cannot be accurately gauged and considerable damage may be done to the soft parts and to the liga- ments of the knee joint. The only operative treatment to be recommended is osteotomy, and when the deformity is very marked the bones may require to be divided at more than one spot. Division of the tibia is more important than division of the femur, and the bone should be cut through just below the knee; the fibula is bent or broken, or if it be too firm, it may be divided, but as a rule it yields quite readily. The division of the tibia is best done by an oblique osteotomy. The bone is exposed by a vertical incision over the crest, and chiselled through from above obliquely downwards and backwards (see Fig. 45 c); it is then bent into position. In many cases it is also necessary to divide the tibia lower down at the point of greatest curvature, and this may be done at the same operation. In very bad cases it may be necessary to divide the bone a third time just above the ankle joint before the whole of the curvature can be obliterated. The limb should be put up in Gooch's splint (see p. 113), and after a fortnight a plaster of Paris bandage should be substituted and kept on until union is complete. In bad cases it will also be found necessary to divide the femur at a later date. The osteotomy should be practised immediately above the lower end, and, should the curvature be extreme, a second one may be necessary higher up the limb. In bad cases several osteotomies may have to be done before the bones can be got satisfactorily straight; Macewen has even done as many as ten in one patient. Two or even three of these may be carried out at the same time, but it is better where several have to be performed to do them at intervals so as to allow union to occur in one before the next fracture is made. Should the bone be divided