154 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. different forms of lupus separately. The disease is a local one, although it occurs very often in patients who have an hereditary tuberculous taint, or who are suffering from tuberculosis elsewhere. Hence, although general treatment, such as has been already recommended in Part I., Chap. XIV., is advisable in all cases, the disease will not, as a rule, disappear without local interference ; this consists essentially in the removal of the diseased tissue as thoroughly as possible. Of late years considerable improvement has been reported under the internal administration of thyroid extract in doses of from three to five grains daily after food, or at longer intervals and in smaller doses according to the effects produced; the drug is not, however, much to be depended upon. The methods of local treatment depend largely upon the particular form of the disease that has to be dealt with. (i) In a case of lupus non-exedens, where there is little or no ulceration, and where the nodules are isolated and tend to form cicatrices, it is often a very difficult matter to get rid of the affection entirely. The ideal treat- ment of lupus is of course to excise the whole of the diseased area, but where the non-ulcerating form of lupus covers a large surface, and where the nodules are pretty wide apart, excision would mean a very extensive operation, and would involve considerable deformity, and therefore it is well to try some other plan, at any rate at first. The best treatment for extensive lupus non-exedens is the application of Unna's salicylic and creosote plasters, containing 15 and 30% of pure salicylic acid respectively; the creosote is added to relieve the pain which follows the application of the plaster. The effect of salicylic acid applied in this way to a patch of lupus is to cause the lupus nodules to break down, while the healthy skin in their vicinity is quite unaffected by it. The plasters are applied as follows. If ulceration be present, the crusts, must first be got rid of by poulticing for 24 hours, or fomenting the part with hot water. When there is much desquamation the epidermic scales are removed in the same way. The strong plaster, which is bought ready-made, is then applied to the affected area, and changed every day. The result of the application is that at the end of the first day the lupus nodules are seen to be softened, and in the course of twa or three days they begin to ulcerate, and as the use of the plaster is con- tinued the ulcer becomes deeper, until eventually the lupus tissue is completely destroyed by the action of the acid. These strong plasters are continued for about three weeks, if the patient will bear them; in some cases, however, they cannot be persisted in for sa long, because, in spite of the combination of creosote with the salicylic acid, it must be confessed that a great deal of pain is often caused. After three weeks have elapsed, plasters of half the strength are substituted for the stronger ones, and, as a rule, if all the tubercular tissue has been destroyed, the sores will cicatrize under this. If they do not, it means in most cases that all the lupus tissue has not been got rid of; in some cases, however, where the: