CURVATURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. our attention has been directed to the point, we have found a large number of cases in young children who are the subjects of rickets. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The direction of the abnormal cur- vatures in the neck of the femur is not invariably the same, but it is most frequently of such a nature as to produce marked outward rotation of the lower limb. The angle formed by the neck with the shaft of the femur is always considerably diminished, and the trochanter is therefore elevated and the limb shortened. Generally also there is a bowing forward of the neck of the bone so that the trochanter is thrown too far back- wards and external rotation of the limb results (see Fig. 54). In some rare instances there is marked inward rotation, whilst in others again rotation is unaffected, although the shortening, due to the elevation of the trochanter, is well marked. As seen in young children, the affection generally has the following characters: the trochanter is raised above N^laton's line (sometimes very considerably), and there is marked outward rotation of the whole lower extremity. The limits through which the limb can be rotated are on the whole smaller than normal, for, while the range of outward rotation is considerably increased, that of internal rotation is proportionately more diminished. The result is that when the child lies flat upon the bed and the limb is rotated inwards as far as it will go, the patella at best can only be made to look directly upwards and cannot be directed inwards at all; indeed, in the majority of the cases, even this amount of inward rotation cannot be effected. On the other hand, the limb can be rotated outwards until the patella looks almost directly backwards. There is also as a rule considerable alteration in the range of abduction and adduction; when the outward rotation is marked, abduction to the normal extent is impossible, and, unless the limb be in the abducted position, the power Fig. 54.—Alterations in the Curvature of the Neck of the Femur. These outline sketches are taken from skiagrams, and show both the elevation of the trochanter and the bowing forward of the neck of the bone.