79 THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. After the foot has been brought into position by these manipulations, it should be held there with the right hand for from five to ten minutes, whilst with the left the leg is gently rubbed, and the muscles of the calf and front of the leg are steadily kneaded. These manipulations with the hand, and the accompanying massage, should be repeated three or four times a day, and after they have been carried out the foot should be put up on a proper splint, so as to prevent recurrence of the deformity in the intervals. {b) Apparatus.—The most satisfactory splint for infants is the metal one already described (see Fig. 26); this should be bent, so as to fit the foot and leg in their faulty position, and, after these have been firmly fastened by bandages to the splint, one portion of the latter is grasped with each hand, and the limb is steadily and slowly brought into a position of eversion and flexion. This is qrice easily done, as the copper bar yields to the firm pressure of the hand, out is of sufficient stoutness to prevent any recurrence of the deformity caused by muscular action on the part of the child. The splint should be worn continuously night and day, and should only be removed to allow of the manipulations and massage already described. When there is much weakness of the leg muscles, the galvanic current may with advantage be applied, but in the earlier stages it is better to avoid this, because it is likely to frighten the child, and, therefore, interferes with the performance of other treatment; in these congenital cases it is not of any real importance, seeing that there is no actual paralysis of any of the muscles concerned. When the treatment is carried out methodically in this manner, it will be found that, at the end of three or four months from the commencement of treatment, the foot retains its position, even if the splint be left off for some little time; the splint should, however, be continued for at least two or three years after the deformity has been corrected. It must be remembered that, while the resistance of the muscles and the ligaments may be readily overcome, it takes a long time for the bones which are altered in direction to be moulded into their new position, so that, if the retentive apparatus be left off too soon, the deformity is almost certain to be reproduced. When the child begins to walk, an ordinary Scarpa's shoe will be more convenient and satisfactory than the arrangement just described. The method of employing Scarpa's shoe will be referred to immediately, (see p. 86). So far, we have been speaking only of cases for which an intelligent nurse can be obtained, who can give the child constant attention,—conditions which of course only exist amongst the comparatively well-to-do. In practice among the poor, where there is difficulty in obtaining proper atten- dance, or- where the parents are too stupid to carry out this treatment properly, the best procedure is to put the foot up in plaster of Pans in the corrected position at quite an early period of infancy. This is, however, not nearly so good a method of treatment as the one recommended above, as the plaster of Paris encloses the leg, and, therefore, the nutrition