CLUB-FOOT. 76 injuries, such as dislocations or fractures about the ankle joint; to diseases of that articulation; or to cicatricial contraction in its neighbourhood. In the congenital form there is not only tightness of certain tendons, but also alterations in the other structures of the foot, more particularly in the ligaments and bones. The most marked change in the bones occurs at the junction of the neck with the body of the astragalus, the normal angle of which is profoundly altered; instead of being about 38째 as in the normal foetal astragalus, it may, according to Parker, in certain cases of talipes reach as much as 50째. Under normal conditions the obliquity of the neck of the astragalus diminishes as the child grows, so that in the adult the angle of inward deflection of the neck is a little over 10째; on the other hand, in equino-varus in the adult, it may still remain at about 50째. It is quite evident that, with such a marked increase in this angle, the shape of the anterior part of the foot must be seriously altered, and that there is a distinct obstacle in the osseous system itself to the reduction of the deformity. As the result of the equinus position there is a further change in the astragalus. The greater part of the upper articular surface of the bone is uncovered, and, as the result of this, the alterations already described in speaking of talipes equinus occur (see p. 55), while, at the same time, the portion which articulates with the tibio-fibular arch is narrower than it ought to be, and thus a certain amount of lateral displacement is allowed. As time goes on, changes also occur in the other tarsal bones, more particularly in the cuboid and the scaphoid, but, although these may give rise to an additional obstacle to the reduction of the deformity, their influence is not nearly so great as that of the deformity in the astragalus. In advanced cases also there is a marked alteration in the bones of the leg, the ankle being rotated inwards as a whole, so that the external malleolus comes to lie on a plane considerably anterior to that of the internal one, this condition being the exact opposite of the normal. These extreme changes are usually only reached, however, when the patient is allowed to attain adult life before any attempt is made to restore the foot to its proper position. Besides the alterations in the bones there are also certain changes in the ligaments of the tarsus; those on the dorsum and the outer surface of the foot become elongated, while those on the inner side are considerably shortened and thickened. According to Parker the most important changes take place in the ligaments around the astragalo-scaphoid joint, in the anterior portion of the deltoid ligament of the ankle joint, and in the inferior calcaneo-astragaloid ligaments. In the early stage of the deformity these ligaments interfere more seriously with its reduction than does the altered shape of the neck of the astragalus itself, for in infants, where the bones are cartilaginous, it is comparatively easy to bend them into a new position, whilst the ligaments are tight and thickened, and are not so readily stretched.