17 HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. In addition to the use of suitable boots, means must be employed to press the toe inwards, and thus to overcome the abduction. In quite early cases a pad of lint between the first and second toes may be employed, but it is apt to press injuriously on the other toes, and does not always attain the desired end. A better plan is to have the sock made with a separate compartment for the great toe (the so-called "■digitated socks"), to see that a suitable boot is worn, and to have the toe frequently manipulated so as to bring it into a straight line with the inner border of the foot. In most cases, however, it is advisable to employ some form of apparatus, for a time at least, so as to keep the toe in its proper position; of these various forms have been introduced at different times. In addition to the sock furnished with a separate compartment for the great toe, a very common plan is to make use of what is known as a "toe-post." This is made by fastening to the sole of the boot a vertical piece of stout Fig. 14.—Diagram to illustrate the employmfnt of a "Toe-Post." The **toe-post" is seen in the cleft between the great toe and the second. It is made of stout leather or wood, and is fixed to the sole of the boot, which should be of the shape shown in the figure. The great toe is thus confined in a compartment from which it cannot escape, and no lateral deflection is permitted. leather, or other suitable material, in a position corresponding to ihe interval between the great and the second toe when the former has been pulled into position (Fig. 14). The great toe is first of all brought straight by introducing between it and the second a small pad formed of a strip of flannel rolled up. The foot is then introduced into the boot, and the great toe slips into its proper position. The pad between the two toes can be easily removed by pulling upon a string fastened to the end of the flannel bandage, which uncoils and is withdrawn. The use of a toe-post of course necessitates the employment of a digitated sock. The plan answers emin- ently well for the slighter cases, but where the deflection is very great and the trouble is of long standing, considerable friction is caused by the outward pressure of the toe against the post, and pain and sometimes ulceration is caused, so that the patient is unable to continue it. Under these circumstances a special form of splint must be employed. A great variety of these have been introduced; one that is fairly satisfactory is here figured (see Fig. 15); it is applicable to cases which are not very fa? advanced, and in which there is no marked rigidity. It consists of a metal spring running along the inner border of the foot and curving out- PT. II. B