ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. p. 302)—should be persevered with while the surgical treatment is being carried out. In the rare cases in which there is room enough between the xiphoid cartilage and the aneurysm to allow of proximal compression, this should of course be attempted, the pad of the instrument being screwed down just above the sac. ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. Aneurysm of the innominate is not a frequent affection, and it is one that is by no means easy to diagnose with certainty. An aneurysm of the arch of the aorta or of the lower part of the right carotid or subclavian arteries may readily simulate an aneurysm of the innominate trunk. When the aneurysm is small, the situation of the tumour may assist the diagnosis. In an innominate aneurysm the swelling rises in the neck above the supra-sternal notch, whilst in an aneurysm of the first part of the carotid it usually appears between the sternal and clavicular heads of the sterno- mastoid muscle; in an aneurysm of the first part of the subclavian it is on the outer side of the latter. When the aneurysm is large, however, the swelling in each case comes to occupy about the same position, and then the diagnosis is mainly made by observing the character of the pulsa- tion in the terminal branches of the innominate. If the pulses in both the axillary and the carotid are delayed and feebler than on the opposite side, it is probable that the innominate trunk is affected, whereas if the pulses in these two arteries differ from one another it shows that the aneurysm affects one or other of the branches. The history of an innominate aneurysm is practically the same as that of an aneurysm elsewhere. It steadily increases in size and gives rise to various pressure symptoms, which chiefly manifest themselves in the neigh- bourhood of the trachea. It enlarges in an upward and forward direction, eroding the sterno-clavicular joint, and giving rise to a swelling at the root of the neck on the right side. It most frequently bursts through the skin, but in some cases the rupture may take place into the trachea or the pleural cavity. TREATMENT.—Distal Ligature.—Of late years numerous attempts have been made to cure innominate or supposed innominate aneurysm by the employment of the distal ligature, and in cases of the sacculated variety these attempts have sometimes been followed by success. The distal ligature is applied to the common carotid and the third part of the subclavian artery on the right side and the ligature of the two vessels should be performed simultaneously. If an interval be allowed to elapse between the performance of the two operations the collateral circulation is generally so far enlarged that there is comparatively little diminution in the flow of blood through the aneurysmal sac. In some cases it has also been found necessary to ligature the vertebral artery at the same time, but