259 NEURITIS. In bad cases the affection may ascend as far as the spinal cord, where in the severer forms a myelitis may actually be set up. Diagnosis of Neuritis from Neuralgia.—Before proceeding to describe the treatment of this affection, a few words must be said with regard to the differential diagnosis of neuritis from neuralgia. These two affections are very apt to be confounded—a matter of primary importance since the treatment differs considerably in the two cases. The pain in neuralgia is, as a rule, intermittent, whilst in neuritis it is continuous; in neuralgia there is not the same tenderness along the course of the nerve as is almost invariably found when the nerve is actually inflamed. In neuralgia there is no local elevation of temperature, no spasm of the muscles supplied by ■the nerve, no paralysis, and none of the sensations peculiar to neuritis; and lastly the trophic lesions above described do not occur, at any rate to the same extent. TREATMENT.—In certain cases prophylactic treatment is of great importance. This is especially so with wounds in the neighbourhood of large nerve trunks, and particularly when the latter have either been divided or lacerated. Under these circumstances the risk of neuritis must always be borne in mind, and particular care must be taken to prevent it. The first point of importance is to see that the wound is made aseptic^ and is kept so during the whole process of the healing, because neuritis is much more frequent in septic wounds than in those kept aseptic. Hence, in all cases of accidental wounds involving important nerves, or occurring in their neighbourhood, scrupulous care should be taken in disinfection, which should be done on the lines already laid down in Part I., p. 184. Search should also be made for any foreigfi body which may be lying in contact with the nerve. When a nerve is divided in a wound, it is important to see that its ^nds are not left projecting upon the surface, or in any position in which they may become involved in the scar. Hence in amputation wounds it is always the rule to pull out the large nerves with forceps, and snip them across, so that they shall be divided at a considerably higher level than the muscles and other structures. When a nerve has been torn across instead of being divided, it is always well to cut off the lacerated portion, and whenever it is possible the divided ends of the nerve should then be brought together and sutured. When neuritis is established the most important point is to search for the cause and, if possible, remove it. It must be borne in mind that the cause may be either local or general, and also that a neuritis set up by a local cause may sometimes be much aggravated by some general constitutional condition such as those we have already referred to. Any local cause must, therefore, be searched for in the first instance. Should the neuritis be due to some inflammation in the vicinity of the nerve, such as a carious tooth, this should be removed, or, at any rate, the inflammation should be treated upon suitable lines so as to get rid of