234 TEEPHINING. Poaition of patient. Incision. RemoTal of fragments. Application of trephine. Care in perforating inner table. into the groove made by the trephine, to guide the surgeon in his attempt to perforate the bone, and to prevent him going too far; a pair of cutting forceps, to remove sliarp points and edges of bone; an elevator, to raise depressed bone; and dissecting, dressing, and torsion forceps. (Vide Pigs. 71a and b.) The patient’s head having been placed upon a pillow, shaved so far as requisite, and held firmly, the first thing the surgeon has to do is to expose the bone he wishes to perforate or elevate. This must be done freely, either by enlarging the wound that previously existed or by a crucial incision. The soft parts should be divided by one cut down to the bone, and these, including the periosteum, should be gently pressed back with the handle of the knife. Bleeding at this stage should be arrested by ligatures, torsion, or the application of a cold sponge and pressure. Supposing the case to be one of fracture with depression, and that fragments of bone exist, they should be removed, great care being taken in their removal not to twist the broken bone, and thus run the risk of tearing the dura mater; and when an opening is thus formed, the depressed bone may be raised by means of the elevator carefully intro- duced beneath its free border. To facilitate this proceeding, perhaps the removal of a piece of projecting bone by forceps or Key’s saw will be found benefi.cial, and if so the trephine is not required; for the surgeon’s object, under these circumstances—to raise the depressed bone and remove the comminuted portions—may be completed with- out the trephine. Should the bone be so depressed, however, as not to present an edge for the surgeon’s forceps, as is seen in the “ gutter” fracture illustrated in Fig. 63, the trephine must be employed. The instrument should be previously prepared, the central pin being made to project sufficiently far to perforate the external table, and so fixed as to allow the saw to bite the bone. (Fig. 7lA.) In a depressed fracture this pin should never he placed upon the fractured, but upon the border of the sound bone. The instrument is then to be applied, and the external table cautiously divided with a few semi-rotatory movements of the surgeon’s wrist. A groove having been made deep enough to allow the saw to work steadily, the instrument is to be removed and the central pin with- drawn and fixed (Fig. 71b), as it would be a fatal error to go on work- ing with the pin projecting through the inner plate of bone into the dura mater. The surgeon ought now to proceed with the utmost cau- tion; and feel his way every few turns with the fiat probe, for as soon as he has divided or even reached the inner plate the elevator may be employed and the loose ring of bone removed. When the inner plate is fractured to a greater extent than the outer, it may not be necessary to divide it, the removal of the external table with the diploe being sufficient to allow of the introduction of the elevator, aud the elevation of the depressed inner table or the removal of fragments. Should this, not be the case, however, the inner table must be pei’forated, for tbe whole thickness of the bone must be removed. The operator cannot be too careful at this stage of the operation ; and should always proceed with the conviction that the bone is thinner at one spot than at another, and further, that “ there is only the thinness of paper between eternity and his instrument.” (Sir A. Cooper’s MS. Lectures.) The depressed bone may then be raised by the elevator.