43 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. to affect the subjects of septic or pyaeuiic disease, and perhaps, certain conditions of the secretions inclined to coagulation may favom* its production. Teeatment.—Abundance of fresh air is most essential, even to an air Treataent of hath, as maintained by a constant current allowed to pass through the ward or room; isolation, the free use of such antiseptics as may be pre- ^ " f erred, and close attention to all sanitary measures should he scrupulously observed. During the early stages of the disease irrigation seems to he the best local treatment. Sponges should never be employed. The next object should be to take away all sloughs and putrescent material, and this must he done by carefully cutting the existing slough with scissors or scalpel aided by the dressing forceps, and mopping the surface of the wound with cotton wool or tow, thus thoroughly cleansing the whole surface of the loound. The third aim is local applications to prevent the extension or return of the sloughing. Of these applications nitric acid was formerly the chief, the acid Local being freely applied to the diseased parts, and carefully introduced nieasures. into every hollow and excavation into which it could percolate. To apply the acid, writes Welbank, “the sore must be thoroughly cleansed, and all its moisture absorbed by lint or tow. The surround- ing parts must next he defended with a thick layer of ointment; then a thick pledget of lint, which may he conveniently fastened to the end of a stick, is to he imbued with the acid, and to be pressed steadily on every part of the diseased surface till the latter is converted into a dry, firm, and insensible mass. The part may then be covered with simple dressings and cloths wet with cold water.” Dr. Goldsmith, of America, has spoken very highly of the value of bromine as an application, which arrests ulceration and turns sloughs into tough deodorized tissues. Others also, have adduced sufficient evidence to prove its value. It should he applied freely, as is the nitric acid, to the whole surface, its application being re- peated wdien the sloughing or ulceration spreads. Iodine and the oil of turpentine have also been advocated, the latter, it is said, has the power to dissolve the sloughs and change the action of the disease. Delpech and some surgeons speak highly of the actual cautery, and when the galvanic cautery is to he had, it should he used—the object of all these different plans of treatment being to excite a new action on the surface of the wound, and to destroy the sloughing tissues which, doubtless, by mere contact, have a power of keeping up or propagating the disease. When the sore is extensive, an anaesthetic should he administered during this local treatment. After the cauterization, the surface of the sore should he dressed with the permanganate of potash, carbolic acid, or iodine lotion ; opium should be added to allay pain ; bromine in solution, two drops to the ounce of water, is also beneficial. Dr. Packard of Philadelphia, prefers the use of powdered sugar or thick syrup, sugar being a hydrate of carbon which does not give up its oxygen and well known for its preservative powers in the case of meats. He dusted the parts with the sugar, and covered the whole with wet lint. When odour exists charcoal should he mixed with the sugar. The constitutional treatment consists in abundance of light nutri- rnncHii, tious food, milk being administered as freely as it can be taken, with ‘iouai treatment.