632 ENTEROTOMY. Cases. wards, to tbe walls of the alidomen; by tliis proceeding no exudation can take place into the peritoneum. II is then only necessary to make an exceedingly small incision in the intestine by means of a sharp- pointed bistoury. The opening which Nelaton makes is less than a third of an inch.” This operation is very warmly advocated by Trousseau in all cases of intestinal occlusion from whatever cause, “ when the symptoms ot occlusion have existed for six or eight days, when there is great tym- panitis, when the matters vomited are of a stercoraceous character, and, finally, when the persistence and severity of the symptoms presage imminent death.” He had recommended its adoption in five cases, and ill two with complete success, the patients recovering, who, without it, would have been hopelessly lost. In recent times this operation has been successfully performed by Mr. McCarthy on the suggestion of Mr. Maunder in 1872 (‘ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ vol. Iv), by Mr. Wagstalfe (‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1873), by Mr. Maunder himself in November, 1875 (‘ Trans. Clin. Soc.,’ vol. ix, 1876), and by others. I have performed it three times, once in 1876 on an infant twelve days old, who was born with an imperforate rectum, and survived the operation eight days, having been greatly relieved by it, but operation had been postponed until too late. The second was in May, 1877, on a man set. 57, who had been a patient of Dr. Wilks, for chronic small intestinal obstruction of many months’ standing, the chronic condition being aggravated every week or ten days by symptoms of a severe character, which threatened life. Tbe seat of the obstruction was too uncertain to allow of tbe operation of colo- tomy being performed; indeed the symptoms pointed to the small bowel as being the seat of the disease, and on that account enterotomy was undertaken. The operation gave rapid and permanent relief and the man was convalescent in a month. His temperature, as shown by the chart, was never higher than 100°. He is alive and well at the present day ; but the inconvenience connected with the artificial anus is so troublesome as to neutralise greatly the advantages of the operation. The third Fig, 259. Thermograph of case of enterotomy, in a man, mt. 57, for chronic ol)struction. Tempe- rature never reached 100°, and patient was convalescent in a month. Fluetuatiou of temperature very slight. was on the person of a man, let. 50, whom I saw in consultation tvith Dr. Cortis, of Kennington, in July, 1877, for complete intestinal obstruc- tion. He had been ill two months with abdominal pain and con- stipation, but sought advice only when the pain had become very severe