ON SKIN GRAFTING. 162 When applicable. Mode of performing transplauta- lion. sore into sections (Fig. 47). By these means large surfaces speedily cicatrise which under former circumstances would have required many months. Moreover, the contractions and subsequent deformities that under other conditions were too well known to follow in such cases do not occur. The practice seems applicable wherever a large granulating surface exists, and in its adoption the only desirable point to observe is, that the surface of the sore should be healthy ; this clinical fact includes another —that the patient’s health is good, for there is no better barometer of health than a soi'e, its surface assuming a healthy or unhealthy appear- ance with every alteration in the general condition of the body. I have attempted, however, by way of experiment, to graft skin upon sores that were not quite healthy, and have sometimes succeeded. In some indolent sores in which a small patch of healthy granulations sprang up, I have succeeded in securing a new centre of “ cutification” by transplanting which proved of great value in aiding the healing process; in some others the graft has been enough to excite a more healthy action in the sore ; still in many poor success followed the practice. It may, there- fore, be accepted as a truth, that a healthy granulating surface is an important although not an essential requisite for success in skin grafting. Upon this basis I now proceed to consider how the operation is to be performed. Pollock tells us that Keverdin’s method is to remove a very minute portion of the skin, place it on the surface of the granulations, and there retain it with a strip of plaster. He writes, “ I have usually removed the skin by nipping up a very small portion with a fine pair of forceps, and cutting it off close with sharp scissors. At first I made a slight cut in the surface of the granulations and then embedded the piece of skin; but of late I have only laid it on the surface of the ulcer. I cannot say that I have found any diffei'ence in the result. I do not think there is great, if any, advantage to he gained by the trans- plantation of a large piece, but where the ulcer is large I think much is gained by the transplantation of numerous small pieces. The dis- advantage of transplanting a large piece is the sore it creates; while the small sores formed by the removal of the minute pieces heal in a short time, and without trouble.” (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. iv.) My own experience in every point confirms that of Pollock. Fig. 45. Scissors for skin grafting. For the removal of the sound skin I employ a pair of scissors (figured above) which Messrs. Krohne made for me after Macleod s suggestion