414 EFFECTS OF TOESION ON AN ARTERY. Mode of separation of permanent ligature. Of the catgut ligature. Effects of torsion. out (c) plastic lymph, which heals the wound, and eventually cements the outer and inner coats, which with the clot unite together into one homogeneous mass; and if in the sequence of events nothing occurred to interfere with the steady evolution of this reparative process all would indeed he well, but unfortunately such is not the case, for the liga- ture, when composed of silk, hemp, or wire, and called pemanent, has to come away. To this end the outer coat of the artery where con- stricted, must slough or ulcerate, and the vessel itself, in either case, at the line of ligature thus becomes divided. By such action, therefore, what nature might have well done by the processes already described i too frequently becomes nndone, and unless a firm clot has filled both ; ends of the artery, or plastic lymph become organized around the ? divided coats, the probability that secondary hsemorrhage will take * place is very great. It is this fact which makes the practice of f arresting hsemorrhage by means of the permanent ligature so unsatis- • factory. To Stilling and Dr. J. F. D. Jones we are indebted for most t of our knowledge on these points. When, however, the carholised catgut ligatures are employed, the » secondary changes which have been described do not of necessity . occur, although in their primary effects the catgut ligature acts pre-i • cisely as the permanent {vide Fig. 118; ‘ Trans, of Clin. Soc.,’ 1878). ■. The carholised catgut ligatures are to be regarded as temporary r ligatures, which may either dissolve within a few days of their appli- ■ cation or become loose. If, therefore, an artery to which such a ligature »: has been applied does not become permanently closed by natural j! haemostatic processes before the catgut ligature has dissolved or : become loose, the circulation through the vessel may be restored or r secondary hsemorrhage may ensue; this accident has occurred|d in my own practice. The catgut ligature is not, therefore, so safe > as torsion for divided arteries. It is, however, a safer ligature than the silk or hempen, as it does not, like the latter, of necessity^) require an ulcerative process for its discharge. When an artery is closed hy what is termed Torsion the inner coatsa Fig. 119. Effects of torsion upon an artery, showing the coutB. From paper by the author, Med.-Chir. Tiaus., loOo.