284 CTJRVATTJEE OP THE SPINE. be well squeezed before they are rolled round the body, and in their ap- plication care should be taken to see that they are applied flat, without making any traction, and well smoothed down. It is well also during this process to wet the jacket with water, and rub in more plaster. 88a. Fig. 88. Fig. 88.—Description of Sayre’s apparatus as improved by Golding Bird, by wbicli tbedrag on the arms and head can be varied by altering the relative lengths of cords i and G. The smaller the angle at g the more the drag on the head, and vice versa. A. Cross-bar suspended by running tackle to Sayre’s tripod or to hook secured to cross- beam of a folding door. n. Pulley, acting upon central bar, to the end of which are suspended the iron rings c, attached to head-piece, e. d. Pulleys connected with arm suspender, r, by hook o, and n, ring, worked bv running cord 36 inches long, which can be lengthened at will and fastened by cleats, o. e. Head-piece made of 2-inch worsted webbing sewn into a circle 274 indies for adult, 23 inches for children, with (a) chin-piece made of wash leather, and (4) two circular sliders of same web, 6 inches round, attached to iron rings, o. The sliders, by being slid for- wards or backwards, can be made to pull more or less against the chin or occiput. F. Arm pieces made of 2-inch cotton web one yard round, capable of being shor- tened by buckle. They are softly padded with horse-hair in the middle, and covered with wash leather; each carries an iron ring, H, On first suspending a patient the running cord, g, should be at its shortest, the centre cord, i, at its longest. Fig. 88a. Sayre’s jury-mast apparatus.—a. Two pieces of malleable iron bent to fit the curve of the back. 4. Tliree or more roughened strips of tin attached to iron, long enough to encircle the body. c. Central shaft carried in a curve over the top of the head and capable of being elongated at will, springing from cross- pieces of a. d. Swivel cross-bar with hoolts attached to end of c, from which straps depend to support head and chin collar, e. This apparatus is applied over the jacket with a plaster bandage.