463 N^VUS. became of their normal size so soon as the central disease was removed. , This process illustrates John Hunter’s opinion that “ vessels have a power of increase within themselves, both in diameter and in length, which is according to the necessity, whether natural or diseased and indicates that the attracting povver had its centre in the growth, and not in the afferent arteries. In a third case, that of a girl fet. 12, I removed the growth by a subcutaneous ligature with like success ; and, more recently, in a man who had such a vascular pulsatile growth in his left cheek, which appeared to have had all the afferent arteries tied without success before he came into my hands. I liga- tured the whole mass subcutaneously, and a recovery followed. Four years later, however, the disease returned, and in June, 1877, I ex- cised it—the wound healing rapidly. Indeed, the only successful cases of treatment of cirsoid aneurism that I have dealt with or seen, have been those in which the growth itself was treated by removal. Cases of aneurism by anastomosis are very amenable to treatment by styptic injection, the galvano-cautery, or the ligature. Nsevus. Telangeiectasis, Erectile Tumour, or Angeioma, is essentially a dis- On nrevns. ease of the capillaries, appearing in a general way to be made up of amass of vascular tissue, the tubes freely intercommunicating with each other. It is true the walls of the vessels are indistinguishable in an advanced case of the disease, the nasvus appearing as a collection of cells or spaces, opening widely into one another, through which blood flows. When the arterial supply is very free, the growth appears florid, warm, and pulsatile, and is then called an arterial ncevus ; when the venous Arterial, element predominates, the growth is less florid, has a congested bluish appearance and does not pulsate, and is termed a venous ncevus. Venous. These growths for the most part appear in the skin or subcutaneous tissue, are frequent on the head and often multiple. Rare examples are on record where they affected deeper parts, even the viscera and the brain {vide Wilks and Moxon, ‘ Path. Anat,’ and Morris, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xxii). In a clinical point of view they may be divided into the cutaneous Cutanrous. or pure skin najvus, the subcutaneous or cellular tissue naevus, and, the wijred/onn where both tissues are involved; which distinction has an important practical bearing. Nmvi are, as a rule, diffused, that is, they have no distinct capsule, but in many cases they are encysted, and may be treated accordingly. Venous subcutaneous naevi appear to be more frequently encapsuled than the cutaneous and arterial. Naevi, moreover, are generally congenital, or make their appearance Congeuitnl. soon after birth. They occur, however, at a later period of life and then seem to be due to some injury or wound. These naevi at times grow quickly, the cutaneous form rapidly spreading; the more florid and arte- Tlieir rial the growth the greater is its tendency to spread; the venous naevus progress, is less progressive. They may grow also for a time and then stop; indeed, they all have a tendency to become stationary after a period, and even to degenerate. It is not uncommon to meet with naevi that have begun to undergo this process before the birth of the child; and I could adduce many cases iu which the naevus was ulcerated or even sloughing at birth. May ulcerate. In feeble or cachectic children it is not uncommon for these “ marks” to ulcerate or slough, and, alter measles, fever, or other depressing illness, the destruction of the growth is sometimes very rapid. These facts show that naevi, although blood tumours, are not long-lived growths