250 SHOCK AND COLLAPSE. Purgatives. Tonics. Question of restraint. Chronic intem- perance. Shock. Collapse. large if not poisonous doses; two drachms of the tincture every hour for three or four doses till sleep is produced. It is a dangerous mode of treatment, and cannot be recommended. When great excitement and some fever exist, antimony in small doses has been much advocated. The condition of the bowels almost always demands attention, as the tongue is usually foul and the secre- tions morbid. A purge sufficient to empty the colon is consequently of service, but violent purgation is injurious. Tonics, such as quinine and iron, with or without opium, will he required as the disease subsides. The combination of the tinc- ture of iron with the tincture of opium in carefully regulated doses is preferable. In other cases ammonia with bark may be adminis- tered. With respect to coercive measures in the treatment of these cases, there is no doubt that they ought to be condemned. In exceptional in- stances, where sufficient help cannot be obtained to prevent the patient from injuring himself or others, the jacket doubtless must be employed, but under no other circumstances is it justifiable. An attendant who combines decision of character and firmness, with a gentle and soothing manner, will almost always succeed in “ influencing” the most trouble- some patient. He is to influence him, however, and not to direct him ; for contradiction and the exercise of authority over the subjects of this disease invariably excite opposition. There are some people who are never drunk, yet are always drinking; in whom the tissues are so weak that under injury they rapidly break up; and under disease show no power of repair. In such it is difficult to induce wounds to heal or show any vigorous action. The best remedy is to supply such patients with all sorts of nutritious food, to give tonics and a moderate amount of stimulants, and thus endeavour to improve their habits as well as restore them to a more healthy tone. SHOCK AND COLLAPSE. A man receiving unexpectedly some startling news, which excites severe emotion, and dying suddenly, is said to die from shock ; a second receives a fatal blow upon the epigastrium; a third is struck dead by lightning, death in each case is -said to be due to shock. In all, the heart’s action is suddenly arrested through the nerve centres—in one case through the mind, and in the others through the body. Under these circumstances, the heart is found full of blood, distension having paralysed its action. A man receives a severe compound fracture, gunshot or other injury, and is not killed, but collapsed. Another, or possibly a child, is much burned or has a large portion of the integuments of a limb torn away or crushed, in which the peripheral nerves are seriously involved, and, as a result reflex paralysis of the heart occurs. Both have sustained a shock more or less intense, and, as a consequence, become cold and almost, if not quite, pulseless. In either case, the skin appears to be bloodless, and covered with a cold clammy sweat. He may breathe almost imperceptibly, feebly, or with sighs and gasps. His nostrils will, probably, be dilated; his eyes