I ; ConcusBion ' and contusion 1 of brain identical. icoj-ery of lised lin. r>»ptoras of usBion. I i 1 1 1 210 CONCUSSION OP THE BRAIN AND ITS EFFECTS. rience of the post-mortem room shows that in all cases of death from concussion of the brain, some changes in structure are to be found if carefully looked for, some bruising or laceration of the brain, some bleeding into its substance. In fact, death from concussion of the brain without change of structure does not take place—concussion and con- tusion of the brain being always associated in fatal cases. At Guy’s Hospital, during fifteen years, no case is recorded of death from con- cussion without change of brain-structure. “ In every case,” remarks Mr. Hewett, “ in which I have seen death occur shortly after, and in consequence of, an injury to the head, I have invariably found ample evidence of the damage done to the cranial contents.” Mr. Le Gros Clark, of St. Thomas’s Hospital, states—“I have never made nor witnessed a post-mortem after speedy death from a blow on the bead, where there was not palpable physical lesion of the biain and Dr. Neudorfer, of the Austrian army, declares that he has never seen concussion, properly so called, except in apparently trivial injuries. M. Fano, a recent French writer, has also come to the conclusion “ that the symptoms generally attributed to concussion are due, not to the concussion itself, but to contusion of the brain or to extravasation of blood. In fact, all now agree that when death follows a severe shak- ing or concussion of the brain, contusion or bruising of the brain is in- variably found. How far these views are correct in cases of concussion that are not fatal, is an open question; but in the few cases of concussion recorded in which death has followed from other causes, some injury to the brain substance has always been found; and, in all instances in which a fatal result has taken place from secondary inflammation, evidence of some bruising of the brain has been detected. A bruising of the brain, how- ever, with a slight extravasation of blood, may be recovered from; although with extensive effusion, compression of the brain and death are the usual result. When it is generally accepted as true that concussion and contusion of the brain are synonymous, the principles of the treat- ment of such injuries will be better appreciated. In the simplest form of concussion of a healthy brain a slight and transient loss of power and consciousness is the only symptom. In the more severe form when a blow or injury produces some severe shaking of the cranial contents, this shaking is followed by a loss of consciousness more or less complete, and a loss of all power of motion; the skin of the patient will be cold, the features more or less contracted, the pulse slow and intermittent, and the pupils very variable—in some cases dilated, in others contracted, while in a third one pupil will be dilated and the other contracted. If the case be neither one of great severity nor complicated with any grave injury to the cranial contents, after a variable period the patient will show signs of movement; and may, perhaps, move a limb in an impatient and purposeless manner. If he is spoken to in a loud voice, he will, perhaps, show some signs of returning consciousness, either by making some inarticulate noise or by merely opening his eyes and afterwards returning to his stolid condition. If the case be still carefully observed, the mode of respiration may be seen to be altered; and from being slow and laboured, it will be irregular, and perhaps sighing. After a time, if recovery is to take place.