AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 389 of a fibrous tumour. It will be seen that, in addition to newly formed fibrous tissue, there is also a great deal of nuclear germination going on. Idiopathic hajmatoma auris, or vascular tumour of the ear, consists, Hoematoma. according to the latest trustworthy authorities, of a degenerative morbid process induced by general disturbances of nutrition. The cartilage of the auricle is its seat, but the pathological appearances differ, as some have found the perichondrium separated from the cartilage, while others have found “ pieces of the cartilage attached to the perichondrium.” In other cases the cartilage has been found thicker but no harder than natural, the thickened part presenting no ap- |! pearance of a cyst, but under tbe microscope showing hypertrophied !; cartilage-cells and intercellular matter. This idiopathic hajmatoma commences by a flushing of the auricle, which becomes hot and painful. In a few hours an effusion of blood takes place, which, generally com- i; mencing in the concha, gradually spreads over the auricle, feeling !' firm to the touch, but allowing of fluctuation being detected if looked !( for with care. It is believed to be peculiar to patients suffering from I, different forms of insanity, general paralysis having the largest share, i| melancholia, acute and chronic mania and dementia, jl following in the order named. Dr. Hun thinks Fig. 112. ll' that the affection obtains such an exclusive position amongst the insane that he holds that any one suffering from hasraatoma auris, although sane at the time of observation, ought to be suspected of insanity. That the affection occurs in persons who have no hereditary history and show no symptoms of insa- nity is undoubted, but whether the pathological changes at the seat of the tumour are the same in those cases or differ in the other cases in which there is a history of traumatic injury is yet unde- IIa;matomu auris. termined, though I am inclined to believe from the cases which have come under my own notice that those resulting from injury do not arise from the same pathological changes. The modes of treatment recommended by different authorities Treatment of vary. Gruber recommends evacuation of the fluid and coagula and the l‘®®atoma. after-use of a compress bandage, while Wendt relates a case where vascular tumour recurred twice after incision, but passed off under lead- water applications and compression. I have tried the different methods proposed, once passing a seton through tbe tumour, and keeping up a slight discharge from it, and find them get well under all the different methods. Since the application of astringent lotions and a compress is less alarming to the patient, and seems as effectual, I am inclined to follow it in future cases, keeping up the compression by a modified letter clip applied to the ear, padding the arms of the clip . so as to prevent injury to the skin of the auricle. * 'i Affections of the external meatus. Affections of To examine the external meatus it is usually necessary to employ a speculum for the purpose of straightening and widening the Ear canal, and so allowing of the passage of rays from a natural or speculum, artificial light. The specula are formed of silver or caoutchouc