71 SEEPENT BITES. which he regards as molecules of living foreign matter thrown into the blood from the venom, and he accounts for the asphyxia and death by the increase and multiplication of these molecules, which takes place at the expense of the oxygen normally wanted in inspiration. Sir J. Fayrer tells us, however, that he has never been able to detect these changes in the blood, although the poison affects the blood primarily, and the nervous centres indirectly through it. (‘ Indian Annals of Med. Science,’ 1870.) Teeatment should be most energetic, otherwise the depressing influ- Treatment of ence of the poison will soon paralyse all action, a few seconds often being enough for the absorption of the poison. Locally, the aim should be to arrest the absorption of the poison by Local, fastening a ligature firmly on the cardiac side of the wound, by excising the wounded part, and by the application of nitric acid, carbolic acid, or the nitrate of silver. Fayrer records, that the natives of India apply a ligature not only just above the bite, hut at several places on the limb at intervals of some inches; they then place a red-hot coal upon the wounded part. The danger and difficulty lie in not applying the ligature quickly enough. The ligature must also be tightened to the utmost, till the circulation is entirely arrested and the part is livid with retained blood. The punctures should then be scarified to allow the blood to flow freely, and the cautery or caustics afterwards be applied. Constitutionally, the best treatment lies in the administration of Constitu- ammonia and stimulants in sufficient quantities to maintain the action tioual. of the nervous and circulatory systems, and thus to keep the patient alive whilst the poison is being worked off or becomes exhausted; for the man who is dying from snake bite is perishing from rapid exhaus- tion of nerve force. Any other measure tliat can rouse and stimulate the failing nervous energy may also be employed. Fowler’s solution in full doses every half hour for four hours is said to have been useful. Iodine has also been advocated, and olive oil internally in full doses has been highly praised. In countries where poisonous snakes abound, different roots have their reputation, such as the guaco, the sacrae vitae ancora, radix coriueae, decoction of Virginia snake-root, &c. &c.; but Fayrer, after repeated experiments, believes them to be utterly useless. Halford has infeired from his experiments that the injection of twenty Injections to thirty drops of a solution of one part of strong liquor amiuoniae veins, to three parts by measure of water into one of the veins of the wounded limb, accompanied by the local application of liquor ammouiae to the part, is a specific; but Fayrer, who has tried the practice, has failed to find the success looked for. Mitchell advises ligature on the cardiac Ligature on side of the wound ; or excision, amputation, or destruction by cautery or cardiac side, escliarotics of the poisoned part; and even suction of the wound imme- diately after the bite, as the poison has no influence in the stomach. He thinks well also of the injection into the wound of iodine or ammonia, and says the natives believe the local application of olive oil to be the best. Together with this local treatment, the patient is to he kept up by hope, the action of the heart sustained by stimu- lants quite irrespective of quantity, and the general powers maintained by nutritious food. By these means, “ if the person he not thoroughly