BED SOEES. 34 Their local destruction. Sed-Bores. Their treatment. When the ulceration is superficial, and the skin is not deeply infil- trated, the local application of cod liver oil on lint, and the covering up of the part with cotton wool to keep it warm, has at times worked wonders. But under other circumstances, when the skin is deeply involved and infiltrated with disease, the free destruction of the whole growth is the best treatment, and this may be effected by scraping the surface of the growth, by caustics or cautery. Since employing the galvanic cautery as a local caustic, I have burned down many of these lupus ulcers, and even tubercles, and been surprised to find how rapidly a healthy cicatrix forms. Paquelin’s thermo-cautery seems, also, of equal value. Where this treatment is inapplicable, the destruction of the surface by some escbarotic should be undertaken, the chloride of zinc paste being probably the most effective. But whether the galvanic, or thermo cautery, or escharotics, be used, it is essential that the whole tissue be destroyed down as far as the healthy structures. In some cases I have scraped or broken down the growth with the handle of a knife, or even cut off the margins, and then applied the cautery to the base of tbe sore. Tbe same practice may be followed when caustics are applied. In exceptional examples excision is beneficial, the sore being left tp heal. Eodent and cancerous ulcers will be treated under the head of tumours. BED-SOEES. In theory bed-sores should never occur; yet in practice they appear in certain cases, in spite of the greatest care and attention. It is well, however, for the surgeon to act upon tbe theory, as by so doing he is stimulated to do everything in his power to guard against their occurrence, and no better illustration of the old adage, “ Prevention is better than cure,” could be found than in such a case. Bed-sores may briefly be described as the death of a part from mechanical pressure, the parts involved in some cases literally dying from being deprived of their nourishment by prolonged and con- tinued pressure; in others from some inflammatory action induced by it. Bed-sores may arise in healthy subjects who are kept unmoved for ten or fourteen days; but in the old, the fat, or very thin they may occur at an earlier date, as they do in fever cases of all kinds, and in spinal or partially paralytic cases; completely paralysed parts are less prone to slough than the partially paralysed. Dirt and moisture under aU circumstances accelerate their appearance. \ bed-sore may appear as a simple abrasion, a sloughing of the skin, or subcutaneous tissue, and in severer cases the exposed bone may die, and in the worst the spinal cord may be opened. Teeatment.—Since, as a rule, they are caused by continual pres- sure on a part, they may very generally be averted by some change of the patient’s position. The necessary amount of movement may, as a rule, be allowed in all medical and iu most surgical cases, but local pressure under all circumstances should be periodically relieved. The skin of the part pressed upon should be hardened by washing it, at