20 CHRONIC ABSCESS. j I Acute abscess in bone. On chronic abscess. Treatment of abscess. Use of aspirator. Treatment of abscess. in other eases it may pass into the pelvis, and out again at the sciatic notch; and appear in the buttock as a “ gluteal abscess.” In disease of the lumbar vertebrae an abscess may also form, burrow between tbe abdominal muscles and appear in front of the abdomen above Poupart’s ligament. An abscess beneath the scalp may undermine tbe whole scalp tissue; one behind the fascia and muscles of the pharynx may spread so as to cause a large post-pharyngeal tumour, and cause death by suffocation; while deep-seated abscesses of the neck may burrow into the thorax, and thus produce fatal mischief. These instances serve to show how pus, when confined beneath a strong membrane, will burrow along the cellular tissue of a part to find some outlet, and how necessary it is for the surgeon to be aware of the fact, in order that he may stop the process, or trace tbe cause of the disease to its source. Acute abscess in bone is attended with severe local symptoms and constitutional distress, but to this subject attention will be drawn in a later page (chap, xxxiii). Some chronic abscesses are of remarkably slow formation and give rise to very little constitutional disturbance or local distress; indeed, except mechanically, they seem to be of little annoyance unless they are secondary to some organic disease. Even then it is astonishing to what a size a chronic abscess will sometimes attain before it is dis- covered or complained of. In spinal cases this is often verified. In children, also, large abscesses form in the same quiet way. They are, however, never met with in the robust and strong. Abscesses con- nected with enlarged glands are peculiarly passive in their progress, and appear to cause pain only when they begin to make their way through the skin. Those, again, which appear during the convalescing period of joint disease when the disease seems to be undergoing recovery, show themselves in the same quiet way. They seem to be a simple breaking-down of old inflammatory products poured out in the cellular tissue during the more active period of the disease, and which had failed to be re-absorbed or to become organised. Constantly they undergo absorption, and should not rashly be interfered with. Treatment.—During the formation of an abscess, fomentations, poultices, and warm-water dressings give comfort, and may be used. They are only admissible, however, when suppuration and external dis- charge may be expected. When absorption is probable, such means should not be employed. This result, however, can only be expected in chronic abscesses which are not connected with deep-seated mischief. The local affection requires, therefore, no other treatment than rest and an absence of all irritating applications ; tonic treatment and regimen being the chief means upon which reliance can be placed. On some occasions I have drawn ofi‘ the pus from a chronic abscess with the aspirator, and no re-collection has taken place, but as often as not the fluid re-accumulated, and a free incision was subsequently necessary. W^henever an abscess is opened the incision should be free enough to admit of a ready outlet of its contents, and to prevent any re-accumulation. Wherever burrowing suppuration in a part can be detected, the sooner an external outlet is made the better, whether that burrowing be beneath the scalp, behind the pharynx, among the deep cervical tissues, in the thecae of tendons, between the layers of muscles of an