COLOTOMY. 635 Fig. 260 illustrates the line of incision and the appearance of the artificial anus. It was taken from a patient of Sir W. Gull’s, set. 64 that I operated upon in 1869 for vesico-intestinal fistula, and who died five and a half years subsequently (1875) from a ruptured heart. The gentleman followed his avocation without any dis- comfort. After the operation a good sedative should be given, such as opium. After- morphia, or chloral, and the recumbent position maintained, a piece of tfeatoient. oiled lint covered with oakum, and kept in place with a soft towel, being the best application. The sutures may be removed on the fourth or fifth day, according to Sutures circumstances, while perfect cleanliness must be observed. fourth^da"' Nutritive food and stimulants may be given within a day or so of the ^ operation, repair, as a rule, going on favourably. l‘iG. 260. Artificial anus after culotomy with the oblique incision. When the wound has cicatrized, the patient may get up, and a pad Appliances covered by a folded napkin and fastened on with a lumbar binder, is after the best application. The ivory ball or plug that has been recom- mended, appears to be a useless instrument, and cannot be kept in its place, nor does it prevent the prolapse of the bowel that is said to be so likely to follow the operation. With the oblique incision this prolapse does not appear to be the Value of the cause of any annoyance, since it seems to take place to a very slight "nelson, extent. When contraction of the orifice takes place to too great an extent, a sponge tent or short bougie may daily be introduced. I have, however, met with but one case requiring this treatment. After convalescence, it is well to wash out occasionally the lower por- tion of the bowel with warm water, as some faeces are apt to pass the artificial opening and rest in the rectum, causing irritation. When the anal end is open, it is best to do this through the natural opening, and when closed, through the artificial. I have now perlormed this operation thirty-six times: in four Prognosis.