On inflammation of the absorbents. The glantls acting as barriers. Symptoms. May subside. 186 INFLAMMATION OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. SUEGEEY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. CHAPTER V. INPIAMMATION OP THE LYMPHATICS AND THEIR GLANDS. The ahsorbent glands with their ducts, are liable to inflammation, “ adenitis” or “ angeioleucitis,” and this action is probably the result of the absorption of some septic material. It is almost always asso- ciated with a wound, punctured or open, inflamed, suppurating, heal- ing, or scabbing; with some point of irritation or suppuration, even a papule or pustule; with some centre from which morbific elements may be taken up. In what is called a simple wound the inflam- mation of the absorbents may be acute, but in poisoned it is violent and diffused. The inflammation always follows the course of the absorbents, leading from the centre of absorption towards the glands, that is, towards the body, and it never spreads backwards. When it has reached the glands, the diseased action ceases to spread; that is, it expends its force upon the group of glands in which the absorbents naturally end and does not extend through another series of absorbents to a second group. The morbific material is arrested in the glands, at least, such is the usual course of the affection. When pyaemia follows or complicates the case, it may be open to question, whether the poisonous fluid circulating in the lymphatics has not been allowed to pass into the blood through its usual channels, that is, through the in- flamed glands onwards, but it is at least as probable, that the same septic material that poisoned the lymphatics and set up inflammation in the tubes and glands, was taken directly into the blood through the venous channels, thus giving rise to blood poisoning. Absorbent inflammation usually manifests its presence in a definite way. Pain in some of the glands and tenderness are generally early symptoms, and, with these, or soon following them, will be seen a band of redness, varying in diameter, leading from the wound or infecting centre towards the gland. This red line may be continuous or inter- rupted ; it may be a thin streak or a broad stripe of redness, and in some instances so radiate into the surrounding tissues as to simulate erysipelas. The whole line of redness is very painful, and with these local symptoms there will be also some febrile disturbance, very probably the attack will be ushered in with a rigor. It should bo noted that the red lines follow the course of the absorbents and not of the veins. Under favorable circumstances and treatment these symptoms may subside, and the red line, with the svvelling of the glands and cellular