559 ODONTOMES, Tlie dentinal pulp or bulb, arising from the bottom of the tooth sac, and projecting into its interior, grows up beneath the enamel organ and I progressively takes the destined form and dimensions of the dentine ii just prior to the formation of that structure; thus, the free end of the bulb, having taken the form of the cutting edge or masticatory surface of the future tooth, becomes capped by dentine, which forms on it from without inwards; and this crown cap being formed, the remainder of the tooth is developed by ths gradual growth of the pulp at its attached I surface or base (see Diagram 238, c, c) and its subsequent encasement ‘ by dentine. In the fully developed tooth the pulp comes to occupy Tooth pulp. 1 a comparatively constricted central chamber cori’esponding in form I pretty accurately to the external contour of the tooth, and this chamber t may be yet further diminished in size by a renewal of the centripetal 1 growth of dentine. I Dentine, remaining as it does in connection with its formative organ Connection ; through the medium of the tubuli of which it is mainly built up, periphcr i is capable of a certain amount of increased solidification even at its I periphery, and under certain conditions is endowed with most acute I sensitiveness. I The crusta petrosa is formed on the gradully elongating root through ( the agency of the dental sac or capsule which surrounds the forming I tooth crown, and ultimately comes to invest the root in the form of the 1 fibro-vascular, “ alveolo-dental membrane.”^ I The alveolar poi*tion of the jaw grows up with and is moulded ) around the developing teeth, and upon the eruption of their crowns, ! affords the teeth firm implantation, by closely surrounding their roots. Having thus far traced a tooth’s development, we now pass to the » consideration of the effects which foUow departures from this normal K process. Odontomes. ] Tumours which result from the abnormal and excessive development “ Odon- 1 of the dental structures at auy time during the tooth’s formation have tomes.” I! been grouped together by M. Broca under the name of Odontomes,® and a classified by him as follows :— ;! I. Odontomes embryoplastiqnes.—Those which arise before the dental Varieties. [I pulp has developed odontoblasts, and before the enamel organ has I] acquired special enamel-forming cells. II. Odontomes odontoplastiques.—Those which arise after the special n dentine and enamel-forming cells have been developed, but prior to the c formation of the coronal cap of dentine. III. Odontomes coronaires.—Those which arise while the crown is II forming. IV. Odontomes radiculaires.—Those which arise during the forma- f tion of the root. These four designations, pointing respectively to the periods in the 1 tooth’s development at which the hypergenesis of the pulp has arisen, also indicate to a certain degree the structural formation of a tumour ^ dental sac is also probably derived the membrane known as the “ cuticula entis. or r>asmvth s mp.mhrpnp ” which in an unworn tooth is found continued over I il dentis,” or " Nasmyth’s membraue,” r wown, and is regarded by C. Tomes as an undeveloped cemental layer, V 17*^° ,, * “ dentine excrescence ’’ in the pulp chamber are called « by Mr. Salter secondary odontomes,” and naturally come under that designation as a naight also the outgrowth of the pulp winch sometimes follows the exposure of that ) struetpe; but as these are aftections of the fully developed tooth, they will be consi- 3 dered in the second division of our subject. > j uc cunsi