30 INFLAMED AND IRRITABLE SORES. May become painful and irritable. Transplanta- tion in extensive ulcers. The inflamed ulcer. Eczematous. knee—omitting the sore—firm pressure being applied by means of a piece of sheet-lead and a bandage over the dressings. In private practice, when the leg can be dressed daily, the whole limb may be covered with the strapping. The strapping, therefore, ought to be good, not such thin material as that spread on calico, nor thick, felt strapping, but that spread on linen, such as is sold by Leslie, or Messrs. Gerrard and Co., and used at Guy’s Hospital. When the sore is painful, or the patient has an irritable pulse, the beneficial effects of opium twice a day in a pill are very marked ; and quinine, iron, nux vomica, or the vegetable bitters, may be given, as the wants of the case indicate. The bowels also require attention, drachm doses of the sulphate of magnesia, with quinine, being a good aperient. When the sore is unusually large, and there is little proba- bility of the whole healing from loss of skin, fresh centres of cuti- Jication should be inserted by transplantation. In this way I have brought about the cicatrisation of a large sore of twenty-four years’ standing in three weeks, and many others of smaller size in an equally short period; indeed, by this practice of skin-grafting, I believe the necessity of amputation in the more severe forms of this affection will be greatly diminished; for hitherto indolent ulcers that surround a limb have ever proved themselves incurable, amputation being their only remedy. All sores may infiame or become irritable, but there is an inflamed, sore or ulcer which is found in subjects with thin and fair skins who are in some way reduced in power, or “ out of sorts,” either from irregular living, over-work, or bad feeding. It appears as a small superficial, inflamed, irritable sore, with a raw-looking appearance, an ash-coloured slough, or thick secretion over its surface, and discharges a thin, ichorous fluid, sometimes tinged with blood. The patient will complain of its excessive painfulness, particularly at night, and will dread its being touched. It will look red and angry, though superficial. A blow or a graze may have caused it, or a local patch of eczema- tous inflammation, in which case it may be described as an eczematous ulcer. The treatment of these sores is very troublesome, the skin being Sflam'erand usually highly sensitive. They always want soothing, and the best ii-ritable lotion is one of lead mixed with extract of opium, but this some- ulcer. times irritates, while the lead or zinc Ointment gives comfort. At other times a cold bread poultice is the best application. In all cases the limb wants rest and elevation; plasters rarely being tolerated. In the eczematous sore, where the discharge from the eruption round the sore is profuse, the powdered oxide of zinc and starch, in equal propor- tions, may be used; or, the surface may be washed with a solution of nitrate of silver in the proportion of ten grains to the ounce. Occa- sionally a solution of the extract of opium is the best lotion. Simple nutritious food, with a moderate allowance of stimulants, should be administered but all high feeding is injurious. The general health mostly requiring tonics of a non-stimulating kind, such as the vegetable bitters with alkalies, as the intestines are generally irritable. When the pain is severe, opiates and sedatives are indicated. In very inflamed sores the application of a few leeches occasionally gives relief at some distance from it. These sores are invariably obstinate.