391 AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Mr. Hinton gives one in six. as his proportions of recovery in the same. It will thus be seen that in a large proportion of cases of accumulation of cerumen in the external auditory meatus there is a complication i present which does not give way on the removal of the cerumen, and j which clouds the prognosis considerably. I If you can easily lay hold of the accumulation by means of the Treatment. t forceps without risk of pushing it against the membrane, and without p causing pain, it is well to remove it in that way, especially if you are [removing it for the purpose of obtaining a view of the parts behind which you wish to examine on account of some affection present, as, should tliere be some abnormality of the parts behind, the passage of a strong current of water might prejudice them. Hut should it not be |! practicable to remove the accumulation by the forceps wdthout causing 1 irritation, the syringe must he used iu the manner described in treating of foreign bodies in the meatus. A lessening of the secretion is sometimes seen in acute affections of the middle ear, and in nervous deafness, but, before making your dia- gnosis in such, inquiry of the patient as to what he has done to the ear before coming to you is useful iu eliciting a good reason for the con- dition found. The use of some slight emollient and attention to the primary cause, if any such is detected, comprises the treatment. Foreign bodies. Foreign In no department of surgery is the aphorism that “ blind zeal only bodies, hurts” more necessary to he remembered than in that relating to foreign bodies in the ear. The form of the canal is so peculiar, being that of a spiral turning anteriorly inwards and downwards, and having ex- pansions at either extremity, and the forms of the foreign bodies which enter or are placed in the meatus are so varied, that the efforts to remove them by any other means than a current of water must be used only where the practitioner is guided by an accurate knowledge of the ana- tomy of the external meatus, if damage to the delicate structures which limit the inner end of the meatus is to be avoided. So common are forcible attempts to extract by those unaccustomed to meet such it cases, that it is exceptional that a case is seen by the surgeon before !such elforts have been made as have caused a certain amount of in- flammation of the canal and its consequent lessening iu caliber. In such, where the caliber has been rendered too narrow' to admit of the ^ passage of the foreign body without considerable force, the first indica- L tion is to allay the inflammation by rest, leeches, and fomentations. The If exudation having been absorbed, and the canal having nearly or wholly I resumed its normal size, the surgeon ought to determine whether there *• is a foreign body present, and, if possible, its size, form, and position, 0 for cases continually occur in which a patient suffering from chronic disease of the middle ear has the feeling of a foreign body being present, % w'hile others are either the subjects of delusion from other causes, or 5 are attempting to delude you. This information is obtained by means of the usual mirror, speculum, and probe, by the last of which you can determine if the body is hard or soft or moves easily. If the last is Treatment. ^ the case you may, by inclining the head to the side of the ear affected, Kl shake it out, or by laying the one hand on the ear a sharp percussion * on the hand so placed may remove it. But the persevering use of an 3 injection of lukewarm water from a four- or five-ounce syringe, the t point of the nozzle of which has a caliber of from one to two milli-