668 DISPLACED HERNIA. Persistency ot symptoms. Multiple li cruise. Displaced heruise. Causes leading to displaced hernia. Varieties of displaced hernia. Any violent action of the bowels soon after the operation must be watched with anxiety, and in the aged it is too often followed by a fatal collapse. When too profuse it must be checked by opium. The patient on no account should be allowed to get up and walk until he has been fitted with a good truss. It occasionally happens that, after the reduction of a hernia by operation, the symptoms of strangulation persist, and the surgeon is in doubt as to their cause. Under these circumstances, the wound may at times require reopening, and the parts at the neck of the sac re- explored, since the case may be one of those of “ displaced herniae ” to which attention is now to be drawn. As a rule, however, the persistency of the symptoms is due to the obstruction caused by the injured bowel, or to the anaesthetic. When the bowel, however, has not gone up at the time of the operation with the usual rush, or the surgeon has any doubt in his mind as to its right reduction, the wound should be reopened, the utmost caution being observed by the surgeon in examining the parts about the neck of the sac. Multiple Herniae. When two or more hernice exist with symptoms of strangulation, the one that on careful examination appears to be the most tender ought first to be explored, and should this operation not give relief, the second should be treated in a like manner; indeed, if no relief be given by the second operation and a third hernia exist, it should also he explored, for it cannot be too often repeated, that the operation is not one of danger when compared with the necessity of the case that demands it. Dupuytren in his “ Le9ons Orales” has recorded such a case. In the third part of my “ Clinical Surgery,” p. 204, I have like- wise recorded another in which Mr. Cock was the operator. The patient was a man set. 70; the left side was first explored, but as the symptoms continued the right was operated upon twelve hours later. Both hernia} were old inguinal, in both the sac was opened, and re- covery took place. In the case of a Jewess set. 30, I was called upon to see, with double femoral hernise and an umbilical, I operated on this occasion upon the right femoral for strangulation, and a year later upon the umbilical with success. Displaced Hernise. No cases demand closer attention than these. When understood and appreciated they may be successfully treated, and when misunderstood they are sure to be overlooked. Hence it may be accepted as a fact, thata strangulated hernia with its sac may be bodily reduced within the ab- dominal ring and behind the abdominal parietes, the intestine being still held by the neck of the sac {Fig. 269). This form was first described by the French writers as “reduction en bloc,” or “ en masse,” and by Mr. Luke in this country (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1843). The majority of cases reputed to be of this nature are, however, probably caused by other lesions of the sac, and the credit of having made this out is due to Mr. Birkett, in an able paper read before the Med. Chir. Society in 1859. He describes three forms, though his observations apply only to inguinal hernia. It would appear, therefore, that there are four varieties of displaced hernia.