653 ABDOMINAL HERNIA. years. The same analysis likewise showed, that it was a rare occurrence for an inguinal hernia to become strangulated in its first descent; and then when this occurred the hernia (recent) is generally of the “ congenital ” and not the “ acquired ” kind. Also, that femoral hernia was far more liable than inguinal to strangulation, and also to strangu- lation on its fii’st descent. “ Recent ” strangulated hernia, that is, hernia strangulated on its Recent first descent, both of the inguinal and femoral forms, requires opera- hernia more tion more frequently than the “ old” hernia, and is far more fatal. It was also shown that umbilical hernia is less liable to strangu- lation than either of the two other forma, that it is little liable to I strangulation in its first descent, and, that when strangulated it is [ almost always of very long standing. The symptoms of strangulated hernia are those of obstruction. In Symptoms ' “ olA inguinal hernia” of many years’ standing they are usually oj^gtruction chronic; in “ recent hernia” and more particularly of the femoral form, they are acute. It thus often happens that in an acute or “ recent” hernia, inguinal General or femoral, its descent is accompanied by severe abdominal pain in the symptoms. ' region of the umbilicus, more or less collapse, vomiting first of the contents of the stomach, then of those of the duodenum (biliary vomiting), and, at a later stage, of the yellow contents of the small intestine and even of fasces. Constipation is also usually present, although on the first onset of the symptoms, it is not uncommon Local signs, for the large intestines to empty themselves. With these general symptoms of obstruction, the local signs of hernia will be present at one or other of the sites at which a hernia may occur, the hernial tumour will be tense and painful, and without impulse on the patient ! coughing. The general symptoms thus described are common to every form of acute intestinal obstruction whether outside the abdominal cavity from a hernia, or inside from internal strangulation, ileus, or other cause j hut, in every case in which they occur, the practitioner should carefully ' examine the site of every possible hernia, and not trust to the patient iu any way, as the local are often masked by the severity of the : general symptoms, and the local cause thereby overlooked. The symptoms in an “ old hernia” are less acute, and are those of Symptoms in chronic obstruction. They are not, however, less characteristic when heruia. ' vomiting has set in; hut iu all probability before this symptom appears the patient will have complained of some general abdominal uneasiness, such as flatulence, a feeling of faintness, nausea, and fulness, with local pain in the hernia; the nausea, however, will soon be followed by persistent eructations, hiccough, and vomiting; in most of the cases constipation too will be present, though iu some the desire to go to stool will be great and the straining severe. The local signs of strangulation or obstruction are often so slight as to be disre- garded by the patient, and unless the hernia is discovered by the surgeon, his attention will probably not be drawn to it by the sulferer. Thus, at Christmas, 1870,1 reduced a femoral hernia by the taxis, strangulated for a hundred hours in a man who was unconscious of its presence till a few hours before. If the obstruction remain unrelieved the powers of the patient will Progress of probably become prostrate, and more or less complete collapse will show hernia when