ON EEPAIE AND INFLAMMATION. 9 CHAPTEE I. ON REPAIR AND INFLAMMATION. The repair of wounds after injury is a subject of so much import- ance that I have thought it w'ell to devote an early chapter to its consideration j for, as in practice, the surgeon’s aim is to place wounded parts, whether hard or soft, in the most favorable position for repair, and to remove all obstacles that are likely to interfere with the natural evolution of the process; so is it incumbent upon him to know how nature proceeds in carrying out her end, in order that he may in no way by acts of omission or commission interrupt the performance of that desirable object. Before entering into details, it is also w^ell to know, as a primary Identity of truth, that the processes of repair are identical in all tissues j that the repuir in all reparative process in bone or muscle, integument or tendon, soft or hard parts, is the same, such modifications alone showing themselves as necessarily appertain to the anatomy of the tissue or special circum- stance of its position. Thus, tissues that are highlj’ vascular may undergo more rapid and more perfect repair than others less fortu- nately circumstanced, and bone tissues may require more time to unite than skin, yet in all the process is alike. Let us therefore enquire what Reparative the process is, and see what changes take place in parts undergoing process, repair; and then look at them where they are best seen, when an incision is made through the skin and the edges are brought together. The chief points that can he observed have reference to the capil- E.vamplc, laries. In these, at the margin of the wouud, the blood will be found skin, coagulated up to the nearest anastomosis, and the capillary vessels in the neighbourhood will be seen dilated—this dilatation being caused by the increase of pressure to which the capillaries have been subjected by the altered circulation of the blood in the immediate vicinity of the wound. When wounds unite by immediate union no other changes Immediate than these take place, beyond the gradual restoration of the capillary uniou. circulation through the parts that have been divided, and under these somewhat rare circumstances no scar or cicatrix is left. The soft parts at first simply adhere together, and consequently become continuous. Should the wound unite by what is called adhesive union or 'primary h. Adhesive adhesion (the “ first intention ” of John Hunter), in wdiich a cicatrix is union, formed, other changes are to be seen; and these take place in the con- nective tissue—in which the vessels of the part ramify—a tissue that pervades every other, and which is made up of cell elements and inter- cellular tissue, the cell elements varying according to the nature of the part in which it is found. These changes consist of cell multiplication, and, under the circum- pgn stances supposed, we find between the edges of the wound a vast development, accumulation of cells, filling up in various degrees the spaces of this wounded tissue, and, through these cells cicatrisation takes place. Whether this cell multiplication depends upon changes in the cell