DISEASES OF THE THYEOID GLAND. 191 DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. The thyroid is a ductless, yet highly vascular, gland, has as large General a vascular supply as any gland in the body, and it is supposed to have remarks, some connection with blood formation. It is also freely supplied with lymphatics. It is also a lobulated encapsuled gland, with a cellular structure, the cells containing a glairy fluid. When it is simply enlarged it is said to be hypertrophied, or the seat oi goitre OThroncho- Varieties of ceU {simple adenoid enlargement), and it is well known that these diseases, goitres attain a large size. Sometimes they are apparently composed of simple increase of tissue, the enlarged gland having much the same appearance on section as the small and healthy one; at other times the structure of the tumour is coarser, more cellular, or cystic {cystic enlargement), the cysts occasionally assuming large dimensions ; while in a third the gland is more solid and fibrous, or more or less mixed with cysts {fibrous or fibro-cystic disease). The thyroid gland may inflame, as well as suppurate, and may he the seat of distinct adenoid tumours, or of cancer. Hydatid cysts have also been enucleated from its body {vide Prep., Guy’s Hosp. Mus. 1711®“). Goitre, or Derbyshire neck, as it is generally known in this counti'y. Goitre, is very common. In its most usual form it appears as a simple hyper- trophy of the thyroid gland, giving rise to symptoms which are Characters attributable to the size of the tumour; when of moderate dimensions "‘'d it may not he inconvenient, when even large it may he so, and still produce no symptoms worthy of special notice. At times, small tumours cause symptoms, such as dyspnoea, or the cough as of a hroken-winded horse on exertion, and even difficulty in breathing on the slightest cause. At other times they mechanically press upon the xhcy press on large vessels and respiratory tract, producing headache and a feeling trachea and of fulness in the head on stooping or coughing, with evident respiratory vessels, obstruction, and even difficulty in deglutition. These symptoms may also appear for a time and then disappear, leaving the patient comfort- able in all respects during the intervals. In other cases, goitres which appear to be of the simple kind begin to pulsate under excitement, or other unknown cause, and are attended with some protrusion of the eyeballs. These symptoms disappear with rest and time, and the case subsequently re-assumes the clinical features of a simple goitre. with Such cases as these stand ns a kind of link between the simple protruded and that known as the exophthalmic goitre. Graves, or Basedow’s disease; and yet, between these two affections there must be some wide E^ophthal- diff’erence, for the simple goitre appears to be a local affection, whereas the e.xophthalmic form is probably part of a more general disease marked by the enlargement of the thyroid body, often by prominence of the eyeballs, always by palpitation of the heart, a peculiar thrill in the blood-vessels, and a general want of muscular and brain power (Fig. 60). Modern notions tend to indicate that this form of goitre is a neurosis ol the cervical sympathetic. “ The numerous functional disorders which occur in Graves’s disease are either due to temporary congestion ot the sympathetic nerve, or a permanent structural altera- tion of the ganglionic nervous system.” (Trousseau’s ‘ Clin. Med.’) This view, liowever, of the affection is not yet proved, and the whole subject requires investigation.