Ill TITMOITES. Ou fibrous tumours. Fibrous outgrowths. Fig. 20. people. Good success usually attends the practice. In the firmer fibrocellular varieties, and in the firm myxomata, a return of the tumour is not to be expected, but in the softer myxomata, where cell elements predominate, the risks of a return are great. Fibrous tumours—Sarcoma. This term is applicable to the denser form of tumours or outgrowths made up of fibre tissue or closely-packed connective tissue elements (Fig. 29). When mixed with the non-striped muscular fibre, the growth is known as “Jihro-muscular” or as a “ myoma ” (Virchow’s term). Varieties. When associated with cysts, it is called “jihro-cystic” and when with calcareous matter “fibro-calcareousJ’ These varieties are found chiefly in the uterus. Fibrous outgrowths or 'polypi are commonly met with in the uterus, pharynx, and occasionally in the rectum. They have been found- in the intestine and other parts. Fibrous tumours are found likewise in the uterus and prostate, and occasionally in connection with the hones, periosteum, nerves, and skin. In those about the hones the elements of hone or carti- lage are usually found. The fibrous outgrowths have no capsule, hut are contin- uous with the tissue from which they spring, and are made up of fibre tissue more or less closely packed and arranged in bundles or in concentric circles; they are but feebly vascular. Those of the uterus are the most typical. (Fig. 20.) Fibrous tumours are al- ways encapsnled, and have a tendency to assume an ovoid or globular form when not confined, but when com- pressed or bound down by surrounding parts, they take an irregular lobular shape. In structure they are very similar to the outgro-wths. Fibrous tumours are firm, and occasionally most un- yielding. They are slow in their increase, and give pain only from their position. When hound down by a dense fascia or situated near a nerve they cause much distress. They only interfere with life'or r'nnvfnrb n._ i i. . • Fibrous outgrowths are not encapsulcd. Fibrous tumours are encapsuled. Fibrous tumoiw. Drawing 387®®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus Characters. comfort mechanically. They are usually single, except in the uterus and when in connection with the nerves. As they come under the notice of the surgeon, those conirected with the periosteum or bones, ^lled periosteal sarcoma, are the most common, and of all bones the jaws are the most frequently aflected by them. They are chiefly peii- Situation.