664 ABDOMINAL HEENIA. Sac to be opened oil failure of reduction. Examination of contents. Care in dividing the neck. Finger best i director. stricture having been divided outside the sac, reduction by the gentlest manipulation can then be attempted, and, when the contents of the sac go back with a rush, all the surgeon needs has been effected. When no indications of reduction show themselves, or a portion of the contents of the sac has disappeared, but not with the characteristic jerk, or some piece has been left behind, the sac must be opened. To do this, care is needed, the danger of carelessness consisting in wounding the bowel. To avoid this, the sac may he nipped between the thumb and finger, or seized with forceps, and, being slightly raised, opened with a scalpel applied laterally. Through this opening a director should be passed, its point being kept clise to the walls upwards towards the neck of the sac, and dowmvards towards the fundus, the sac being divided upon it with a biitoury of the sac. The escape of fluid usually indicates the opening )f the sac, and the character of the fluid the condition of its contents But fluid does not always run away when the sac is opened, ind at other times, the escape of fluid from a cyst on the hernial tumoir may mislead. The sac having been opened, its contents should oe ex- amined, and in doing this the utmost gentleness must be em)loyed. When a Icnuckle of intestine is present, and is neither gangrenois nor perforated, the abdominal cavity is its best place. It may b» black from congestion, and spotted fi’om ecchymosis; it may be granula: from lymph, or even covered with false membrane; hut, as long as it pos- sesses its living resiliency, is not foetid, flaccid, like wet wash-lather ruptured or perforated, it should be returned. When a large quantity of injured, intestine \s found in the sac, it had better be left, the surgeon simply relieving the constriction ty- the division of the cause of stricture, and this ought to be done wth the utmost care. The director when employed, should be kept close io the walls of the sac, and guided by it towards its mouth. Its poiut faould Fig. 277. Hernia knife. Hemiotome director—A, Blade withdrawn; B, Blade exposed. be carefully kept away from the bowel, and not introduced furtheiinto the abdominal cavity than to ensure the safe division of the striture, and, when the knife is passed along its groove, the finger of the opeator should carefully press the strangulated bowel away from it in oror to protect it from injury. The finger, however, is the best director and should be introduced to the neck of the sac, with the knife upn it, having its side pressed into the pulp of the soft parts. Both himig