ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 658 Mode of applying taxis. Its rush upwards. Gentle kneading at neck. Force unjustifiable. femoral, obturator, or umbilical, chloroform, the taxis, aud operation, are the three great means of securing reduction upon which the surgeon ought consecutively to rely. The taxis, however, is not equally success- ful in every form of strangulated hernia. In inguinal cases, two thirds, at least, are reduced hy the taxis, a large proportion of these being successfully treated with the patient under the influence of chloroform, when the taxis without chloroform fails. Strangulated old hernim are also more successfully treated by the taxis than recent cases, which are seldom reduced by this method. In femoral hernia, on the contrary, the taxis is not half so successful as in inguinal, and much more fatal. It is most successful in “ recent,” whilst in old cases it seldom succeeds. In umbilical hernia two thirds of the cases are reducible by the taxis. The Taxis. With the patient under the influence of an anmsthetic and placed on the back, the shoulders raised and the legs partially flexed and rotated inwards—in order to relax all the parts that can possibly aSect the neck of the sac—the surgeon should steadily grasp with the fingers and thumb of one hand the neck of the sac, so as to fix it and at the same time prevent the contents of the sac on being pressed from bulg- ing round the orifice. Then with the other hand he should raise the tumour, if large, and gently compress it so as to empty it of its serous, gaseous, faecal, or venous contents, and thus lessen its size. Having done this, he should draw the tumour first to one side and then to the other with the view of opening the constricted lower end of the stran- gulated gut and allowing the contents of the bowel to pass onwards. He should remember that this cannot be effected by any direct pressure upon the hernial tumour itself, but it may be by lateral; for if the slightest movement of the lower or constricted end of the knuckle can be made in the direction of the upper or distended one, the lower opening will probably be freed and the reduction of the hernia effected by its sudden rush backwards into the abdominal cavity, when the surgeon may be assured that aU is well. But when the tumour has diminished in size, and its diminution has not been accompanied by the well-known sensation, a feeling of doubt should ever remain in the mind as to the result, since the want of this symptom of proper reduc- tion should suggest the possibility of a rupture of the bowel, or of a reduction into one or other of the unnatural pouches which are now known to exist under certain circumstances at the neck of an inguinal hernia. To facilitate reduction, a gentle kneading movement of the fingers at the neck of the sac may be made in inguinal hernia, as well as a steady traction downwards of the tumour, this traction rendering the neck of the sac a straighter channel for the hernial contents to pass through. With a similar object the sac itself may at times be pinched up with the fingers of one hand and drawn downwards. Vio- lence in manipulation is unjustifiable under all circumstances, and, in proportion to the period of strangulation as indicated by the vomiting, is the danger increased. In femoral hernia also it is comparatively muoh more injurious than in inguinal, for not only may the bowel be ruptured by forcible taxis (an accident more common in femoral than inguinal hernia) (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1856), but it may be so bruised as to be irreparably injured. A preparation and drawing (Fig. 273) in Guy’s