150 ARROW WOUNDS. days, and afterwards removed, the parts still being kept at rest for another week. Should pain or swelling follow this primary dressing, the dressings should be at once removed, and warm-water applications or a poultice applied. When there is any evidence of retained fluid in the part, the external wound must be opened, the extent of reopening depending upon the amount of tension of the part. When suppuration has taken place, a free vent for the discharge must he maintained. Pain must he relieved by opium, and the general powers maintained by tonics and carefully regulated stimulants. Arrow wounds. Arrow These have been made the subject of a special essay by Dr. Bill in wounds. ‘ American Journal of Med. Science,’ vol. xliv. He tells us that it is exceptional to meet with single wounds, the American Indians discharging their arrows so rapidly that if one takes effect it is im- mediately followed by others. The Washington Army Medical Museum contains specimens of penetrating arrow-wounds of the skull. Where both tables are punctured there is little or no Assuring ex- ternally or internally, as the vitreous table is penetrated as cleanly as the outer. “ This is in such marked contrast to the results of bayonet or sword thrusts or of the impact of gunshot projectiles as to merit notice.” Arrow wounds of the chest are not always fatal; those of the abdomen are generally so. Dr. Bill tells us that the Indians on this account always aim at the umbilicus, and that the Mexicans when fighting the Indians on this account always envelope the abdomen. The velocity of the arrow when first projected is so great that it has been estimated to equal nearly that of a musket ball. At a short distance an arrow will perforate the larger bones without comminuting them, or it will cause a slight fissure only, resembling in these respects Fig. 39. Piece of buffalo rib pierced by arrow. Surgeon-General’s Office, U. S. Circ. 3. the effect of a pistol ball fired through a pane of glass a few yards off. This is well seen in the drawing (Pig. 39), copied from a preparation of the section of the eleventh right rib of a buffalo fissured by an arrow, in the Washington Army Med. Mus., presented by Prof. Joseph Henry and copied from Circular No. 3. , » j . The treatment of punctured vessels and cavities will be found in the chapters respectively devoted to those subjects. Contused Contused and lacerated wounds never heal by primary or immediate and lacerated union. The injured parts are so bruised and separated that some por- wounds.