EADICAL CUKE OF HEENIA. 677 the inguinal tumour, thinking it might he possibly a hydrocele of the cord, as no symptoms of strangulated bowel were present. Tliese, however, soon appeared, and chloroform was given with a view of ex- ploring the tumour, when, by the taxis, the hernia was happily reduced and the boy recovered. Inguinal hernia is very common in the female child, indeed, under puberty, it is the usual kind, and is always of the “ congenital form,” ' the bowel coming down into the open canal of Nuck. It is found, however, at all periods of life, though as a direct hernia it is only seen in the adult. The rupture may consist of the ovary and descend into the labium. It can be recognised by the same symptoms as in the male, and should be treated on the same principles. A hydrocele of the cord may be mistaken for a hernia. Treatment.—A reducible inguinal hernia is to he kept up with a Treatment of truss, whether in the infant, child, or adult; the truss too must be tcell inguinal fitting, exerting sufficient pressure to keep the hernia in position hut *’Jvhe!r no more. Should the hernia come down when the truss is on, it reducible, ought to he reduced, and the truss re-applied. The pressure of the pad in the oblique form should be o\e.v Wic. internal; hut in the direct, over the external ring. In infants, a complete cure is often obtainable Cure in by these means in a year or so, and if no descent or any other symptom iufimts. of hernia shows itself for another year, the truss may be left off. In cases of hernia occurring after infancy, it is, however, never safe to leave off a truss. When some malposition of the testis complicates a case of the congenital form of hernia, care must be taken that the pad of the truss does not press the testicle, and, when the testicle and hernia are both in the inguinal canal, no truss can be tolerated. Irreducible, inflamed, obstructed and strangulated inguinal hernia) are to he treated on the principles already stated. When a hernia cannot he kept up with a truss, hut under no other wiieu circumstances, the question of the operation for the radical cure of the irreducible, hernia may be entertained, as the operation has its dangers, and Wutzer, its early advocate, admits that a truss is necessary for life subsequently. A strangulated direct inguinal hernia is, however, a far more serious afl'ection than the oblique, the sharp unyielding edge of the ruptui-ed tendon surrounding the neck of the sac acting as rapidly upon the strangulated bowel as does the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament in femoral hernia. The Radical Cure of a Hernia. On the radical cure This has been the aim of surgeons from time immemorial; and, were bernia. hernia only a mechanical lesion due to a weakness of the walls through which it protrudes or of the neck of the sac, some success would probably have attended the practice; hut as a rupture is more probably due to something more than this, it can hardly be expected that any very good result should have been obtained. Gerdy, Wutzer, Rothmund, Wells, and Da vies, have all tried to accomplish this by plugging the mouth of the sac with its invaginated fundus, Gerdy fixing the invaginated fundus by means of two sutures j Wutzer by means of a cylindrical wooden plug passed into the inguinal canal in the hollow of the invaginated struc- tures up to its neck, and a grooved wooden pad being applied externally over the first to hold the parts in position. The two wooden instru-