CANCEE OP THE TONGTTE. 623 Simple or dyspeptic ulcer Simple ulcer, of the tongue is a rare and very obstinate affection. The few cases that I have seen of it have been in adults in whom considerable disturbance of the digestive apparatus existed. In one, the patient passed lithic acid in such abundance as to startle me. He used to bring it in spoonfuls weekly. The ulceration may be extensive, but al- ways superficial, and the tongue is usually glazed with it and often red. To the touch it does not feel hard. Treatment.—The only sound treatment is a soothing one. The Treatmeut. bowels should be attended to by means of a mild purgative such as castor oil, and rhubarb and magnesia, or alkalies given, such as the bicarbonate or chlorate of potash in gentian, calumba or bark. The diet should be regulated in the most careful manner, and all food forbidden that can possibly irritate. Milk, when it can be taken should be allowed. Beer and spirits are generally injurious; but wine may be allowed when necessary. Locally, the chlorate of potash lotion is the best. Caustics and other stimulants are rarely required. These cases are not to be mistaken for the syphilitic or condylomatous affections of the organ which are less superficial, more raised and indu- rated, and are, besides, usually associated with patches on the throat, lips or cheek, and other constitutional symptoms; nor with the fissures or ulcers that are often found at the side of the tongue, due to the irritation of a stump or tooth. Deep-seated ulcers of the tongue. Deep ulcers. These may be simple, syphilitic, or cancerous. The first is very un- common, and usually the result of a local abscess. It can be known by the sharpness of the edges of the sore, the absence of induration, and the fissured aspect of the ulcer. It has a tendency to recovery. The deep-seated s3T>hilitic ulcer is generally the result of a breaking Syphilitic down of a gummatous tumour in the thickness of the organ. As a tu- mour, it appears as an induration of the part; and as an ulcer, it appears deeply excavated with irregular but not infiltrated or everted edges. It is slow in its progress and not so painful as cancer. It is usually found also with a history or with symptoms of syphilis,|and occurs chiefly in the body of the tongue. It can be mistaken for a cancer, and I consider most of the cases ot so-called cured cancer of this organ are of this nature. Cancer of the Tongue Cancer of is usually epithelial, and may occur in a person the subject of ichthyosis. It is most common between forty and sixty years of age; and like cancer of the lip, is more frequent in men than women, in the ratio ot five to two, generally commencing in, and confined to, one side of the organ; an analysis of fifty-five cases (‘Just. Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 1860) proving that it involved both sides only in nine. It begins more frequently as a crack or ulcer than as a wart, and soon causes pain. It increases with variable rapidity, though the majority of patients seek advice only after it has existed a few months. It is usually recog- nisable by the irregular surface of the sore, its indurated and often everted edges, its hardened base, and sloughing surface. As time goes on the glands beneath the jaw become enlarged, the disease infiltrating all the tissues as it increases, and the patient’s powers becoming enfeebled; haimorrhage from some large vessel too often in the end destroys life.