OPHTHALMOSCOPIC EXAMINATION. 298 ’■ Distinction lietween ai’teries and veins. Spontaneous pulsation. Dark crescent. Variations of colour. Excavation of disc. Hyaloid artery. Senile changes. and are given ofE from the principal trunks, either upon the nerve surface or in the retina near its margin. The veins are distinguished from the arteries hy being of greater calibre, the proportion being about three to two. There is also a difference in colour between the two, the veins being the darker; the arteries are marked by a double contour, and their central portion is much lighter than their borders. Occasionally a dark spot is noticed in one of the vessels at its origin or termination in the disc. This might he taken for a clot, but the appearance is caused by a peculiar arrangement of the vessel, which at this point is seen, as it were, on end and foreshortened. Spontaneous pulsation of some of the retinal veins may also be observed; the occurrence of venous pulsation is, however, perfectly consistent with health, and has no pathological import. In any eye, pulsation, both arterial and venous, can be produced by pressure upon the globe, but should it occur spontaneously in the arteries has the gravest significance. {See Glaucoma.) Anomalies of Optic Disc, &c., consistent with Health. Certain phenomena are not unfrequently observed with the ophthal- moscope, which, although contrary to the condition usually met with, are perfectly consistent with a normal state of the parts. The appearances caused by the connective tissue surrounding the central vessels, the occurrence of pulsation, unusual distribution, and existence of dark spots in the latter, together with the unusual dis- tinctness of the sclerotic ring, have been already mentioned. Other anomalies are— 1. A dark crescentic figure bordering some portion of the margin of the disc. This appearance is caused by a peculiar arrangement of the choroidal pigment; it is congenital. 2. Variations in depth of colour of the disc are frequently met with. Due regard must be had to the colour of the surrounding fundus in forming an opinion as to whether the tint in any particular case is so much deepened or lessened as to constitute a diseased condition. In light eyes the disc appears much redder than in dark, the apparent difference being due more to contrast with the surrounding parts than to actual change in colour. Slight deviations are only to he determined hy careful examination and long experience. 3. Excavation of the optic disc.—Not unfrequently a sloping or even abrupt depression is met with occupying the centre of the disc, but usually extending somewhat further towards the yellow spot than in other directions. The whole nerve surface, however, is never included in the cup; the vessels do not bend under its edge, their calibre is not altered, neither is spontaneous arterial pulsation observed,' as may be the case in the excavation of glaucoma. {See Glaucoma.) | 4. Persistence of the hyaloid artery.—Occasionally a small whiti.sh', cord mav be seen extending from the centre of the disc to the back of) the lens"; it is the remains of a vessel which, during foetal life,'- nourished the latter structure. 5. Senile changes.—ks. age advances, the refractive media become less transparent, the retina grows somewhat hazy, and the disc appears whiter than natural.