H^MOERHAGE AND ITS TREATMENT. 419 in botli cases should be well exposed and cleansed, and all coagula removed preparatory to the application of such permanent means as i may be at command. Of these, the ligature, torsion, and acupres- \ sure are the chief. Styptics and the cautery are only employed I when the three means mentioned are either inapplicable or have 1 proved unsuccessful. On the use of the Ligature. I Since Ambrose Pare re-introduced the use of the ligature (1550), it has been the favourite means for the arrest of haemorrhage; t the speedy way in which bleeding from an artery, however large, . is checked by its application, and the feeling of relief ex- perienced on knowing that for a time, at least, all fear of I' bleeding has been removed, having so influenced the majority of I practitioners in its favour, as to iuduce them to put aside, untried, all other suggested means as being unnecessary. It took, how- fever, more than two centuries for the ligature to become estab- lished in practice; in fact, its adoption was not general till I Jones had demonstrated by his experiments already alluded to (p. f 413), the physiological processes by which haemorrhage is naturally ii arrested in a bleeding vessel, and, that by the ligature, these were i| utilised. I To tie an artery efficiently, the vessel should first be taken up I cleanly and drawn out. A smooth round cord of silk, hemp, or catgut, J must then be applied firmly around its extremity, sufficient force a being used to cause rupture of the inner coats of the vessel d (such a result, although desirable, not appearing, however, to be t constant); and occlusion of the outer coat, a knot called the sm-- 'i geon’s or sailor’s reef-knot being employed. In forming the knot, I, the loop of the ligature should be pressed down to the artery by t the finger or thumb as indicated in the drawing (Pig. 120), otherwise i the extremity of the artery will be liable to be broken off, particularly i if diseased. :1 When the vessel is deeply placed and cannot be isolated, it must be 1^ ligatured with some of the adjacent tissues. When it is so embedded Uthat its free end cannot be taken up with forceps, a tenaculum may be 4 passed beneath the bleeding vessel and all the tissues taken up by the fl instrument should be strangled by the ligature. The ends of the 4 ligature may be left hanging out of the wound. In later years Mr. i| De Morgan has been in the habit of cutting off both ends of the Hga- ' |ture, leaving the knot in sit4 and closing the wound, such a practice i being a revival of the last century, and, since carbolised catgut iligatures have been employed, the practice has become general, if When the vessels are diseased and brittle, some care is needed in the X ipplication of the ligature. The vessel should not be tied too tightly ■1 est too much of the artery be torn and the ligature be made to ■separate before natural hajmostatics have closed it. Some have Imggested the use of a flat ligature under these circumstances, t| )ut it seems scarcely needed. In 1865, I was called upon to jipply a ligatm’e to the femoral artery of a man over seventy years of ige for femoral aneurism. The vessel was so brittle that I felt the I loats give way on the application of the ligature; the included I issue too seemed so thin that I expected to find the ligature come On the use of tlie ligature. Mode of ligaturing. De MorBOT cuts off both ends. Ligature of diseased arteries.