RADICAL CURE OE HERNIA. 679 is then passed along tbe outer side of the finger and pushed through Poupart’s ligament, a little helow the deep hernial opening (internal ring). The point is then directed through the same skin puncture before made, the other end of the wire hooked on to it, drawn back into the scrotal puncture, as before, and then detached. Next, the sac at tbe scrotal incision is pinched up between the finger and thumb, and the cord slipped back from it, as in taking up varicose veins. The needle is then passed across behind the sac entering and emerging at the opposite ends of the scrotal incision. (Pig. 282.) The end of the inner wire is again hocked on, and drawn back across the sac. Both ends of the wire are then drawn down until the loop is near the surface of the groin above, and are twisted together down into the incision, and cut off to a conve- nient length. Traction is then made upon the loop. This invaginates the sac and scrotal fascia well up into the hernial cvnul. The loop of wire is finally twiited down close into the upper puncture, and bent down to be joined to tht two ends in a bow or arch, under vhich is placed a stout pad of Hut. The whole is held steady by a spica baidage. (Fig. 278.) The wire is kept h from ten to fourteen days, or even longer, if the amount of consolidation s not satisfactory. Very little suppuration usually follows, but after a fev days the parts can be felt thickened by adhesive de- posit. The w.re becomes loosened bj' ulceration in its track, until it can be untwsted and withdrawn upwards. In this operation the hernial canal is closed along its whole length, and an extended ad- herent surfaci is obtained to resist future protrusion. After the meration. Wood says, a horse-shoe pad should be worn for Treatment a few months and the truss is not to he throton aside when the patient is about to besubjected to violent strains or lifting. This is important to remember though it tends much to do away with the value of the operation. Modificatiois of the operation are employed for infants, &c. The ingenuty of this operation is great, and where the radical cure Wood’s is called for should be employed. Wood says (‘ Lancet,’ August, statistics of 1873) he has operated 200 times with three deaths, and out of 197 me operation, cases in wide, the results were more or less perfectly known, in 51 a return of the leruia took place, of which 42 returned within the year; in 56 a satisfetory result was secured. Thus, in the most favorable light, there ii one failure to one success, and risk to life. It is to be feared, howevr, that a large number of these so-called satisfactory cures are onlyso when they leave the operator’s hands, since Kingdon’s Reports of tb City of London Truss Society tell us, that within the last ten years^ifty persons who had undergone some operation for the Fig. 282. [ From Wood.