HERNIOTOMY. 667 Aftee-teeatment.—When a hernia has heen returned into the Treatment abdominal cavity, the more the case is left to nature the better. As Jer*uiotomy. a matter of precaution after the operation, as after its reduction by the taxis when the wound has been brought together with strapping or suture, a pad may be adjusted over the part with a spica bandage (Fig. 278). A suppository of half a grain of morphia or more should he at once introduced into the rectum, and repeated in an hour should pain render it necessary; a little ice, too, may be allowed for the patient to suck, when thirst is great, but the less that is taken by the mouth the better. When the powers are very feeble, brandy, soda-water, and ice may be given in small quantities. If no chloroform sickness com- plicate the case after the first twelve hours, beef tea, arrowroot, or milk, may be given, a pint or a pint and a half in the twenty-four hours being ample. Stimulants should he allowed as the powers of the patient indicate, hut always with caution. On the second day, the wound should he dressed, water dressing being all that is usually required, the lower end of the wound being left open for the escape of discharge. Should pain con- tinue and symptoms of peritonitis appear, the opium or morphia sup- positories can he repeated twice a day or more frequently; indeed, the patient should be kept under the gentle in- fluence of opium till the symptoms are relieved; hot fomeutations should also be applied to the abdomen. Purga- tives ought never to be given if the bowel has heen bruised or other- wise injured by its strangulation, for as soon as it has recovered its tone, its natural action will return, any goading of it to action by medicine doing much harm. “ A bruised bowel,” says Aston Key (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1842), “ is placed by nature in a state of rest; the exhaustion of the nervous energy of the part diminishes in the muscular tissue the dis- position to contract. Such inactivity of the bowel should be encouraged and not thwarted by irritating purgatives. The surgeon’s anxietv to procure stools should yield to the evident necessity for time being allowed for the restoration of the natural powers of the injured bowel.” Three, five, ten, or even twenty days may he allowed to pass without any action of the^ bowels, without anxiety or without purgatives, so long as no other indications of mischief show themselves, hut during this time only liquid food is to be given with Simulants as may be required. When some local distress is present, which the surgeon can fairly attribute to the constipation, an enema of gruel and olive oil Mpm" t i may be administered, which may be repeated if necessary, such a simple used “ intestinal stimulant being usually sufficient to induce the bowel to act should it have recovered its tone. When the bowels have acted natu- rally, convalescence may he declared and the usual diet allowed.