57 ON SEPTICiE3IIA. the watch to detect anything like local changes; inasmuch as it is a pathological truth that there is no organ or tissue of the body in which suppurative disease may not take place in a case of blood poisoning or pyaemia; and it is certainly' true that the existence of severe local disease is too often only first discovered on the 'post-mortem, table. What then, it may be asked, are pathological conditions found PatholofticKl after death in a case of blood poisoning or pyaemia—using this word couditions. in a general sense ? The analysis (shown in the form of a table, page 58) of 203 fatal cases, which I have collected from the records of Guy’s Hospital with the sanction of my colleagues Drs. Wilks and Moxon, by whom all the examinations were made, will answer this question. Pathological Conditions from Pyaemia found after Death. The lungs.—The most prominent fact indicated by this table has a. Lungs, reference to the lungs, for it proves that in the larger proportion of fatal cases of blood poisoning these organs are implicated, and further, that in many they are the only parts involved. Lung mischief was found one hundred and eighty-seven times in two hundred and three cases; while in seventy-eight cases, or thirty-eight in every hundred, the lungs were the only organs affected. Lohular pneumonia is the form in which the disease is generally found; and when even a lobar pneu- monia is present, it can usually be made out to have originated in lobules, and to have spread from them as centres. This lobular pneu- monia, like the lobar form, is also generally seen in the loioer lobes, and not at the apices; and neai’er the surface than the central parts. The earliest indication of disease is a lobular pneumonia, and “subsequently,” says Wilks, “ these congested spots are found to contain inflammatory products, and thus we have red hepatization, suppuration or slough- ing,” all these stages of inflammation being visible in individual masses. Associated with this lobular pneumonia some ecchymosis of the sur- face of the lung will generally be found—a purpuric condition in fact—strongly suggestive of blood poisoning. Pleurisy, moreover, generally exists, the fact being accounted for by the superficial position of the lobular pneumonia. The liver, like the lungs, is also attacked in its lobules. These may be 4. Liver, found only congested, or in any intermediate condition between this the first stage of inflammation, and the last, viz. that of suppuration, or sloughing. At times this organ is filled with small abscesses. When these abscesses approach the surface of the liver, they may burst and give rise to a general peritonitis. The liver was involved in this affec- tion twenty-seven times in every hundred cases, and almost always in assoeiation with disease in the lungs- Thus, out of fifty-five cases in which the liver was affected, in only' two were the lungs uninvolved. It would appear, likewise, from the table that the liver is more fre- quently the seat of pyrnmic suppuration after injuries to the head than after any other affection, and that it is rarely found involved after disease of the urinary organs and burns. The kidneys.—When these organs are affected, it is in the same c. Kidneys, manner as the lungs and liver, small isolated points of suppuration being found, surrounded by a zone of congestion eithe" on their surface or in their cortical structure. They are not affected so frequently as are the two former organs—not oftener, indeed, than seventeen cases out of