445 ANEUEISM. means pressure can be applied alternately. The instruments of Signo- riui, Bellingham (Fig. 131 d), Skey, Crampton, Carte, or any other that allows the pad to press upon the vessel, and not otherwise inter- fere with the circulation through the limb, may be used for this purpose. All of these consist of a circle or semicircle of steel, a fixed pad being attached on one side for counter-pressure, and a movable pad, adjusted by a screw, for direct pressure. Indeed, with these instruments care- fully adjusted by the aid of a trustworthy assistant who will see that pressure is well applied, maintained, and shifted only when required, most cases of aneurism of an e.xtremity may be treated. In Fig. 132 is depicted an ingenious contrivance made by Weiss, on the principle suggested by Mr. F. Bulley, for the application of pressure to an artery by means of pads which may be used alternately, and adapted to Bell- ingham’s instrument(D,Fig. 131), either by the rigid screw or elastic pressure of Coles’ pad ; and in Fig. 133 a vei^ valuable one as sug- gested by Mr. George C. Coles—the pressure being elastic—that may be used as hand pres- sure or adapted to any of the tourniquets. The treatment by compression requires intel- ligent supervision, and with this is very suc- cessful ; but without it is uncertain in its efi’ects. My friend and colleague, Mr. Davies Colley, who happened to have been my dresser when a case of popliteal aneurism was under treat- ment by digital compression, informed me, that he proved by experiment, that he could readily arrest the circulation through the femoral artery for six or eight hours at a time with his finger applied directly over the vessel, and the weight adjusted upon his finger—the weight acting in lieu of muscular power that would have been required as the compressing force. To neutralise the effects of the local irritation of the skin by the Fig. 132. This instrument consists of a trephine handle, to which is attached a straight rod telescopiplly arranged. The two upper segments of this rod are hollow tubes each containing a spiral spring; the lower segment is a solid brass rod fitting into the upper, having at its extremity a screw at an obtuse angle. To the end of this a pad, composed of cotton-wool and horsehair, is adjusted. 1 pressure, free use may be made of French chalk, starch, or violet Points to be attended to in using pressure.