G4-6 ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Absence of sac. Contents of hernia. Omental sac. Varieties. Soft pans covering hernial sac. Reducible, irreducible, and strangulated. Bubonocele. Scrotal. Direct inguinal. I'emoral. and probably the subperitoneal connective tissue will unite with it; the neck of the sac, under these circumstances, becoming indurated and thickened, and in an old inguinal hernia having an independent ex- istence, requiring special treatment in operation. This thickening, moreover, as time progresses, is followed by con- traction, and as a consequence a narrowing and rigidity of the neck of the sac, which necessitates in old inguinal hernia, when an operation for strangulation is required, the opening of the sac and a free division of its neck. When a hernia forms at the seat of a wound in the abdominal wall there is no sac, and the same occurs when the caecum or colon pro- trudes through the inguinal canal. The contents of a hernia are usually small intestine and omentum, a portion of the last two feet of ileum being, as a rule, involved; the caecum and colon also are occasionally so, and cases are on record in which the bladder, stomach, or ovary has been found in the sac. At times the omentum is so pushed before the intestine as to cover it completely, thus forming an inner sac; the bowel, as a rule, being behind the omentum. When intestine protrudes, the hernia is called an enterocele; when omentum, epiplocele; when both intestine and omentum occupy the sac, entero-epiplocele; when bladder, cystocele ; when stomach, gastro- cele, &c. &c. The tissues that cover in a hernial sac will necessarily depend upon the seat of the hernia. Thus, in the umbilical, it may be only the membrane of the cord, skin, and abdominal fascia; in the scrotal it will be the scrotal tissues; in the/e»;omZ, the skin with the superfieial and deep fascise; but in all, and more particularly in the femoral, the surgeon should bear in mind the anatomical fact, that a layer of fascia —which lines the abdominal muscles and separates them from the peritoneum—covers in the true peritoneal sac, and is known as the “fascia propria” of Sir A. Cooper, and between this fascia and sac some subperitoneal fat often exists. When a hernia comes down into a sac and goes up again, either by itself or aided by position or by the surgeon, it is called reducible; when it cannot be returned it is called irreducible; when it is con- stricted sufficiently to interfere with the return of the contents of the protruding viscera it is known as incarcerated, and when in addition the circulation of the part is interfered with, it is said to be strangu- lated. When the protrusion takes place above Poupart’s ligament, through the internal ring, but does not traverse the canal sufficiently far to appear through the external, the hernia is called a bubonocele {vide right side of Fig. 270); when it protrudes through the external ring into the scrotum, a scrotal hernia {vide left side of Fig. 270), both forms being included in the term oblique inguinal hernia. When a hernia makes its way directly through the external ring without having passed down the mguinal canal, it is called a direct inguinal (Fig. 271). A crural or femoral hernia is below Poupart's liagament, the pro- trusion having come down through the crural ring on the inner side of the sheath of the femoral vessels (Fig. 272).