DISEASES OF THE JAWS, ETC. Different tible. In tumours of moderate size, the incision should he carried incisions. through the medianline of the lip into the nostril, when, hy raising the nostril and retracting the cheek outwards, abundant room is obtained. When more room is required, the operator may extend his incision round the ala and up the side of the nose towards the inner canthus, and if this is still insufficient, a third incision may be made from the termination of the second along the lower border of the orbit. These incisions are indicated in Fig. 220, which was taken from a man set. 35, from whom I removed an osteo- chondroma, of twelve years’ duration, involving the facial and palate plates of the superior maxilla. The dark line indicates the incision made ; the dotted extra line that which may be required in exceptional instances. Fig. 221 illustrates Gensoul’s and Liston’s method. In some cases, the ala of the nose alone may be turned up. I removed a fibrous tumour growing from the nasal process of the superior maxilla by this in- cision, and found ample room. The incision having been made, and integument reflected suffi- ciently to expose the tumour, all bleeding should be stopped by ligature or torsion. As- suming that the whole bone has to be removed, the incisor tooth of the affected side must be extracted, and the palate plate of the upper jaw with the alveolus divided with a fiue saw (Fig. 222) introduced into the nostril. The malar process of the maxillary bone is then to be partially sawn through, as well as the nasal process of the superior maxilla, their complete section being made with bone forceps. The tumour should then be W seized, the Lion forceps (Fig. 223) being employed, and the whole I wrenched off, bone forceps | Fig. 223. and scissors being employed to complete any section that may be required. The in- i fra-orbital nerve should be ; divided with scissors, and the soft palate left as little in- jured as possible. If any ^ Lion forceps. portions of the disease be ^ left they can now be removed. ' * All bleeding vessels are to be treated by ligature, torsion, actu.al } cautery, or styptics, and the parts carefully brought together with , interrupted sutures. t Fig. 222. Fig. 220. Fio. 221. Fergussoii’s inci- The dotted line, a, Gensoul’s sion for removal incision; i, Lizar’s and of upper jaw. Liston’s.