Affection of bones and larynx. Terms “secondary and tertiary” indefinite. Moxon’s views. Treatment ^ of constitu- tional syphilis. General remarks. S-t SYPHILIS. The bones, if affected, are liable to become necrosed; the larynx, to ul- cerate; and the skin, when affected, to suppurate as well as ulcerate. In fact, syphilitic disease in the feeble and cachectic is as liable to be associ- ated with disorganising changes as any inflammatory or other affection. The longer the disease has existed, the greater also is the probability that the viscera and the tissues of the body generally will be involved. But in all other respects the effects of syphilis are the same. The virus, as it affects the body in all its different ways, is the same ; at all times it is the same; the so-called secondary and tertiary syphilis are the same, for these terms have no definite signification. They have, I believe, tended to confuse the subject rather than clear it, and were framed when the pathology of the disease was but little known. Syphilis is clinically known by certain constitutional symptoms, and pathologi- cally by certain morbid conditions. It may manifest its presence in different subjects in different ways, involving now one tissue, then an- other, with no apparent law regulating its action. In one patient a tissue may be involved early, in another late; but the node on a bone, the nodule of lymph on the iris, the indurated gummy tumour in the con- nective tissue or in a muscle, the puckered nodule of fibrous tissue beneath the peritoneal covering of the liver, the mass of fibre tissue poured out in a syphilitic testicle, are all alike. These differ only in their symptoms and effects according to their position, yet whether they occur soon or late after the primary inoculation, is a matter of no clinical importance. “ While syphilis is thus unsparingly general in its attacks upon organs, yet it plays over much the same series of organs as other dis- eases ; vulnerable or much-abused organs, which suffer disproportion- ately from common causes of disease, suffer also in much the same pro- portion from syphilis, while the thyroid, spleen, capsules, deep-seated bones, and, indeed, generally those parts which are not obnoxious to other ‘ common ’ diseases, escape also in syi^hilis ” (Moxon, ‘ Med. Times,’ June 24, 1871). In fact, beyond the local inoculation, syphilis fixes upon or rather attacks an organ much as any other disease, possessing no special predilection for one organ or tissue in preference to another; the so-called secondary and tertiary affections having no real difference, save only in the surgeon’s mind. Treatment.—There is no remedy in the pharmacopoeia that can be relied upon as a specific for syphilis, although there are many that have a very beneficial influence in aiding the disappearance of the symptoms; they can, however, do no more. It is, indeed, a ques- tion whether the disease is really ever cured, whether a person once under the influence of syphilis is not really like one brought under the influence of vaccinia, which means, that his body has been so affected by the poison as to be influenced by it for life. After successful vaccination a second inoculation rarely takes as it does in a virgin subject, and after true syphilis a second attack rarely if ever ensues. Porter’s law being tolerably proved, “that the in- fluence of syphilis never returns upon itself, or re-contaminates the source from which it had been derived” (‘Dublin Quart,’ 1857). Ricord, Lee, and others have proved that the soft or non-infecting chancre is the only one that can be inoculated with success on the same subject, it is true that in a larp number of cases syphilis appears to be cured, that the symptoms disappear and the health of