139 MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOURS. follicles separated by delicate connective tissue, more commonly the fol- licles are dilated more or less, so as to<form cysts; one or more of these may prevail, so as to give a cystic character to the whole (cystic ade- noma). Besides the cysts arising in this way, others may be formed by a breaking down of the intermediate tissue, especially if it happen to he mucous tissue. But as a rule the glandular elements are surrounded and separated by a more, plentiful formation, which may he so much deve- loped as to more or less entirely take away the glandular character of the growth; this interstitial tissue may either be fibrinous, sarcous, or mucous, or more rarely cartilaginous or areolar; or it may present I characters combining these or mediate between them (adeno-Jibroma— ' sarcoma—myxoma). When the proportion of gland is small, there is ! doubt whether it is not part of the original gland-tissue persisting in the new substance. Thus, the relative augmentation of the cavities of ducts or follicles may make the tumour take the character of cyst, or the relative augmentation of the intermediate tissue may make it take the character of sarcoma, myxoma, or fibroma; but if the glandular ' substance is maintained in due proportion, the natural resemblance of , adenoma is to carcinoma. And, indeed, if the glandular substance is maintained in due pro- portion, then a very little change is needed to give to adenoma the characters of carcinoma. When the characters of carcinoma are ! studied it will be found that these characters are of the same general description as those of adenoma. In either case there is a meshwork of fibrous or sarcous substance, forming spaces in wbicb cells of a more or less epithelioid type are packed together. The difference is one sometimes requiring close observation and not always to be determined quite satisfactorily, whilst in other cases it is obvious enough. The structural diffei’ence between adenoma and carcinoma lies in this, that in an adenomatous tumour the glandular epithelium is regular and com- posed of even-sized and relatively small cells, whose nuclei are generally single and do not contain many nucleoli ; the cells do not vary in form, and line the follicles of the adenoid texture in an even and orderly manner; whilst in carcinoma the nuclei in the cells are larger and > brighter, and have many nuclei, and the cells vary much in form and ' size and compose usually compact masses projecting into irregular bulbs in the sarcous stroma, instead of lining follicular cavities. i CARCINOMA. I Fig. 32. The term carcinoma is now distinctively applied to such tumours as ( have a structure of the following description, viz.—A meshwork of ; fibrous or sarcous substance composing an alveolar structure, whose J interstices are filled with cells. These may h.ave no orderly or metho- - dical-looking arrangement, being packed in the crevices in the mesh- : work (or alveoli, as they are called), and extending casually from I alveolus to alveolus, so as to make a complementary meshwork. The I carcinomatous character is determined by the presence of such alveolar I structure, with cell-collections lodged in it; the decisive point consists ^ in these cells lying close together without any intercellular substance; I the cells generally vary in shape, and have large nuclei, with large and II bright nucleoli. But often the cells have an arrangement very like the [■ epithelial lining of the follicles of the secreting glands, a structure