CONTUSIONS. 144 Wlien incision necessary. Wounds of soft parts. Varieties. Incised wounds. Hseraorrhage. Treatment of incised wounds. them warmth is maintained in the part j moist applications are not so good. When the blood remains fluid, the surgeon must not be tempted to draw it off until all hope of its absorption has been abandoned. To meddle in these cases is often injurious; but when the blood has broken up and suppuration appeared, a free incision into the part, fol- lowed by the application of a poultice, is good practice, the cavity being kept clean by syringing with Condy’s fluid or iodine lotion. When the fluid blood has to be evacuated, it ought to be effected by a free opening, unless it can be drawn off by the “aspirator,” or exhausting syringe, as by this means the fluid is removed and no air let in. Wounds. When the soft parts of the body are divided by any mechanical force applied externally, they are said to be wounded; when the “ solu- tion of continuity ” is produced by a sharp-edged instrument, the wound is called “incised;” when with a pointed one that stabs or pricks, “punctured when with a blunt instrument .that tears, “lacerated and when with any implement that bruises, “ contused.” When the parts are only divided, the wound is called “simple;” when associated with the introduction of foreign bodies, accompanied by hmmorrhage or pain, “ complicated.” All the above wounds are described as being “ open?' (The outer part of the wound so gaping as to expose the deeper parts.) This term being applied in contradistinction to the “ suhcutaneous,” or that in which the external wound is very small in comparison with the internal. Incised wounds, as made by accident or operation, gape much when the divided tissues are on the stretch, or the wound is transverse. In some localities this gaping is more marked than in others, the elasticity of the skin and possibly its muscularity influencing this result. Thus, in the sole of the foot and palm of the hand, the separation of the edges of a wound is very slight, when in the full mammary gland or in other parts of the body in which there is abun- dance of fatty tissue beneath the skin, the gaping is very great. The skin is the most elastic tissue in the body, and retracts on division more than any other. Arteries, probably, are next, and muscles stand third, these facts being well exemplified in a flap amputation. The “ Heeding” that attends an incised wound depends entirely upon the size, number, and character of the vessels divided. In most people the division of capillaries stops by natural processes, except in subjects of the haemorrhagic diathesis. Venous bleeding also, except from large trunks, usually soon ceases on elevating the part or on the application of a little steady pressure. Arterial haemorrhage will be profuse when from large vessels, or persistent till the bleeding vessel has been secured by torsion or ligature. The pain attending an incised wound varies in its nature and degree, according to the sensibility of the patient and position of the wound, the pain of anticipation doubtless aggravating it in the case of an operation. Teeatment.—To arrest Heeding is the surgeon’s first aim, and in the chapter on haemorrhage the necessary means will be discussed. To