199 SCALP WOUNDS. occipital, is suspected, as indicated by the pulsation of the tumour and other symptoms, it may be advisable to apply pressure over the trunk Pressure, of the vessel. When absorption of the effused blood does not take place, the cystic swelling should be tapped, the fluid drawn off, and Tapping, pressure applied. This operation too may be repeated several times; the fluid often becomes serous. Should tapping fail, an incision ought to be made sufficient to allow of the free escape of the pent-up fluid and to prevent its re-collection; gentle pressure should also be subsequently applied on the part. In very obstinate cases the tumour may be treated ns a serous cyst, and injected with iodine. When the effused blood breaks up, and causes suppuration—a somewhat rare result—a free incision is required and the case must be treated as oue of abscess. During this period, tonic treatment is often required to improve the Tonics, patient’s powers. When the tumour is large, the patient should be kept quite free from excitement, and the diet carefully regulated according to the special wants of the case. As a rule, all such cases do well. Scalp wounds. Incised and lacerated wounds of the scalp are very common. Incised ani and when not complicated with injury to the skull or its contents, generally do well. Blunt instruments, forcibly applied, produce scalp wounds very like those caused by sharp-cutting ones. Wounds which exhibit entire hair bulbs projecting from the surface of their sec- tions have been probably produced by a blunt instrument., while on the other hand, when the hair-bulbs are found cut, the wound has to a cer- tainty been caused by a sharp one. (Vide paper, ‘ Glasgow Med. .Journal,’ January, 1876, by Dr Wm. MacEwen.) Large portions of the scalp may be torn away from its connections with the pericranium or bone, and on readjustment live, though much bruised and injured, the extreme vas- cularity of the scalp favouring its repair, and the subject of the injury may recover without a bad symptom. It is generally thought that Erysipelas these wounds are especially “ liable to prove the exciting cause of ery- sipelas.” I am disposed to doubt the accuracy of such an assertion, because from my notes of 175 cases of scalp wounds admitted consecu- tively into Guy’s in eight years—and it must be added that only the severe are admitted—I find that erysipelas followed only in three, or in l'7l per cent., this proportion being about the same as that obtaining in surgical cases generally {vide p. 44). Lacerated or contused wounds of the scalp rai'ely slough, and should be treated as the incised. Punctured wounds are, however, liable to be punctured be followed by diffused inflammation beneath the scalp. wouuds. Teeatment.—Under all circumstances and conditions, scalp wounds should be gently and carefully cleaned with tepid water, and their edges adjusted and maintained in position. The hair should be removed in the neighbourhood of the wound, and the head kept cool. When the wound is not extensive, and its edges can be adjusted by strips of plaster, sutures are not needed; but when any difficulty is experienced, they may be as fearlessly applied to the scalp as to other parts; in extensive lacerations, indeed, the application of sutures is decidedly Sutures preferable to any other form of practice, inasmuch as with their use the wound can be kept clean and moist by water dressing, which is not possible where a quantity of strapping has been employed. In the