403 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. of the changes than on their extent. It also causes an increase of the symptoms of pressure, the tinnitus possibly becoming so harassing that persons have been known to have committed suicide to escape from it, and often causing such depression by the effects of the vertigo and vomiting which it occasions that an inclination to resort to intoxi- cating fluids is thereby aroused. The prognosis is generally favorable, but the treatment is prolonged Prognosis, over such an extent of time that the patient frequently ceases to attend before restoration is accomplished, or aid is not sought in time to pre- vent changes which, having once occurred, cannot be undone. In these cases we must endeavour to stay the course of the disease, which if left to itself will certainly lead to total deafness. The older the patient, the more chronic the affection, and the greater the changes formed in the tympanic cavity, the less hope is there of a good result. If the tin- nitus is continuous and has been present for some time, the prognosis is unfavorable, even although under treatment the hearing power is improved, while if nearly total obliteration of the cavity has occurred, especially if chalky deposits are present on the tympanic membrane, a favorable prognosis is almost negatived. The treatment, besides the constitutional and hygienic, consists in Treatment, local bloodletting, while the pain and hyperasmia are present, the application of the air douche, the injection of medicaments to the Eustachian tube and tympanic cavity, the treatment of any naso- pharyngeal affection which may be present, and the performance of different operations on the sound-conducting apparatus. Two methods of passing a current of air into the tympanic cavity through the Eus- tachian tube have been already described (p. 386). The passage of the Eustachian catheter, used either for the conveyance of air, fluids. Method of or vapours, or for the better guidance into and through the tube of bougies, elastic catheters, or instruments for electrical purposes, catheter, is by no means so difficult as is generally believed. The silver catheter with an obtuse angle of from 110° to 120°, is, I find, the most generally useful in the hands of those accustomed to pass it. The caoutchouc ones are apt to break after being used some time, and do not convey to the operator such accurate knowledge of the position of the beak, in relation to the structures over which it passes, as those composed of metal, although the caoutchouc are less likely to make a false passage in the hands of an inexperienced operator. The patient ought to be placed with ther external openings of thenares horizontal and opposite to the right shoulder of the operator, who, tilting the point of the nose upwards by the fingers of the left hand, discloses the cavities of the nares more fully, upon the floor of one of which he places the beak of the catheter. Keeping the beak on the floor, he passes it through the cavity and onwards across the pharyn- geal space, till it comes against the posterior pharyngeal wall, which, in its normal condition, gives him much the same feeling of re- sistance which he receives on pressing the catheter against the tense open palm of the hand. Drawing the catheter towards him, and at the same time elevating the end which he holds in his hand, he brings the concave curvature of the opposite end against the posterior edge of the nasal floor, and then turning the beak outwards and upwards, keeping it at the same time against the external lateral wall of the pharynx, he will feel it make a slight dip into the pharyngeal opening