346 OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS. Symble- phai'on. Band? of adhesion. Extensive adhesion. Teale’s operation. Ancliyloble' pharon. uniting its margin to that of the opposite lid. Even if no flap of skin be applied over it, it will in time become covered with cuticle, and form a very effectual covering to the eyeball. Symblepharon signifies adhesion of the conjunctiva of the eyelid to that of the globe. It is usually caused by burns with lime or hot metal, and may occur to any extent, varying from a thin band of union to fusion of the greater part or whole of both lids with the globe. This condition requires to he remedied by operation. Where only a thin band of adhesion exists it should be first carefully secured by a suture passed through the extremity nearest the eyeball, and then be divided, and drawn into the fornix by passing the suture through the lid and securing it to a small roll of strapping, placed upon the cutaneous surface. By this means the raw surface left by removal of the band from the globe is brought into contact with healthy conjunctiva and granulates over, healing without forming adhesions. If more than one band exist, each should be dealt with separately. Cases of more extensive adhesion give rise to the utmost difficulty in treatment, and until lately the operations performed for their relief were attended with only indifferent success. One plan of treatment recommended was to dissect away the adhesion and interpose a shell of glass between the raw surfaces, but as healing invariably commenced at a point remote from the free margin of the lid, the shell was gradu- ally pushed out and the adhesion re-established. The insertion of pieces of wire deeply beneath the adhesion, which were left in until the walls of the canal made by them had healed, the remainder of the adhesion being then divided with scissors, was followed by no more satisfactory results. Lately, an operation has been introduced by Mr. P. Teale, of Leeds, which has been attended with the best success. The operation has for its object the separation of the raw surfaces by a piece of conjunctiva, taken from some other part of the eyeball. The following is an extract from the account of the operation given by Mr. Teale in the transactions of the Fourth Ophthalmic Congress, 1872. “ The patient being under the influence of an ansesthetic, the eyelid is freed from its attachment to the lid; next, a hand of somewhat cir- cular form is marked out, with a sharp knife, upon the sound conjunc- tiva; the band commences at one end of the gap left by liberation of the lid and passes round the sound side of the cornea, terminating at the opposite extremity of the gap. ,, , n 4.1 “ Four stitches are then inserted, two on each edge of the flap thus formed. The flap is next separated on its under surface, whilst its extremities are left continuous with the conjunctiva; it is then drawn across the surface of the cornea, and fixed, raw surface downwards, into the gap formed by the liberation of the eyeball from the hd; it is secured in its new position by the sutures already alluded to, aided by as many others as may appear necessary. 1 1.1 f 1,0 Mr. Teale states that “the operation is most tedious, and that lie rarely completes it within the hour. j., . 1 The Anchyloblepharon signifies an adhesion of the lids to each othe . adhesions must be divided with scissors, and, if Pf v" conjunctiva interposed between the raw surfaces j but if this cannot