CANCEEOTTS TUMOXTES. 123 of the growth or enclosed within its delicate connective tissue (Pig. 32). ^ ! Melanoid or melanotic cancer is essentially a medullary cancer con- .taining pigment, having its origin in a natural tissue, as in the choroid ;of the eye, or in a mole, in which pigment exists j but what it is that ° idetermines the development of these growths in tissues that have had a lifelong existence remains to he explained. The black cancers have. Their however, one peculiarity, and that is in their tendency to multiplicity. In this they are often most remarkable—the skin and subcutaneous tissues at times become studded with melanoid growths of all sizes and shades and colours. Fig. 24 is taken from a woman over whose riG. 24. Melanotic cancer. (From Model, Guy’s Mus.) whole body melanotic cancerous tumours were distributed, the disease having originated in a mole which I had previously excised. If it were necessary to adduce a forcible illustratiou of the fact that Pathology, a cancer when first developed in a part partakes, in a measure, of the nature and peculiarities of that part, and even when repeating itself in the lymphatic glands and internal organs, still preserves the characters which it originally acquired from the seat of its primary development, no better could be adduced than that derived from the natural history of primary and secondary melanotic growths: for a melanotic cancer always grows from a part which naturally contains Situation, pigment, and a mole is unquestionably its commonest seat,while pigment in some of its forms is almost always to be met with in all its secondary growths. It may be, perhaps, that the secondary glandular enlarge- ^nents in their rapidity of growth, outstrip the tumour from w'hich they originally imbibed their peculiar nature; nevertheless, their true character is maintained and preserved to the end. This cancer, as a rule, is of the soft or medullary form, aud runs a very rapid course; an extreme example of melanotic cancer, indeed, presenting all the worst features of the other varieties. In rare examples of this disease the melanotic pigment may be found in the urine. (Fagge, ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ 1876.) It has, however, peculiarities of its own, to which attention will be subsequently directed. The osteoid cancers will receive attention in the chapter devoted to Osteoid the tumours of bone (Chapter XXXII). They are all probably onlv cancer, modifications of the medullary cancer affecting bone j although it may