17 ON BEPAIB AND INFLAMMATION. wheu of a feeble or asthenic form, the serous and corpuscular elements will predominate. In the former the soft tissues will appear firm and dense, and in the latter soft and cedematous. In healthy subjects this plastic material may he re-ahsorhed, and Resolution, the tissue into which it had been infiltrated left perfectly sound— recovery then taking place by what is termed resolution ; in exceptional instances it may become organised. In unhealthy subjects the infil- trating material may break up or degenerate, and give rise to what we know as pus. When this forms in a part, suppuration is said to have Suppuration, taken place. Inflammatory lymph may consequently be converted into pus. Sir J. Paget has pointed out how, in amputating through a limb infiltrated with lymph, pus may flow from the wound in the course of a day, while it is known that in amputation through healthy tissue free suppuration does not usually appear till after three or four days. Under these circumstances the pus must have been formed by the conversion of the inflammatory lymph previously infiltrated into the divided tissues. “ When an inflamed part is cut, the first pus is from lymph; the latter pus—when repair is in progress—from granulation substance. In both cases alike the pus manifests itself as a rudimental substance, ill-developed or degenerated; and the transition from one condition to the other is an evidence of the impossibility of exactly defining between the inflammatory and reparative processes, unless we can see their design and end.” “ Prom these and like facts,” says Paget, “ we have an almost exact parallel, in their relation to pus, between the material for repair by granulation and that produced in the inflammatory process, and between, if they may be so called, the reparative and the inflam- matory suppuration.” Dr. Burdon Sanderson’s investigations, as given in ‘Holmes’s System,’ Sanderson’s have led him to regard inflammation as due to excessive irritation of the tissues, this irritation setting up, 1st, disorder of the circulation ; 2nd, transudation of blood constituents; and, 3rd, alteration in the nutrition of the inflamed parts. Stasis of blood in the inflamed parts is the first eflfect of inflamma- tion ; this stasis, which is attended by the crowding together of the w'hite corpuscles or leucocytes, being followed by their motion, their subsequent passage through the capillary walls, and their accumulation in the tissues. The serum that exudes with the leucocytes gives rise to swelling, the leucocytes themselves forming the first purulent elements in the tissues. Cohnheim, indeed, considers these leucocytes as the sole source of purulent infiltration j but the facts before given fairly show that this cannot be the case, pus being probably a compound fluid of leucocytes and degenerated inflammatory tissue. Pus itself is made up of a thin transparent fluid and pus-corpuscles. Pus. These corpuscles are globular, and larger than the white corpuscles of the blood. They are minutely dotted, and contain three or four small dark nuclei which become clear by the addition of acetic acid, and nucleoli {vide fig. 2). Acetic acid dissolves the nucleus of a white blood-corpuscle. Pus is also soluble in alkalies, and has an alkaline reaction. It con- tains from fourteen to sixteen per cent, of solids—chloride of sodium and phosphates. Dr. Day, of Geelong, has given us a new test for pus that is worthy of record. He prepared his test-fluid by exposing a VOL. I. 2