GLAUCOMA. 330 Simple glaucoma. Increase of tension. Spontaneous pulsation. Cupping of disc. Absolute glaucoma. Premonitory symptoms. GLAUCOMA. By glaucoma we understand “A series of morbid changes of the eyeball; the most prominent of which, and apparently the one which causes all the others, being an increase of tension of the globe.” (Bader.) The cause of the increase of tension is unknown, hut is supposed to result from undue accumulation of the intra-ocular fluids, dependent on hyper-secretion or deficient removal. Glaucoma is said to be simple when the increase of tension progresses slowly and continuously without inflammatory outbreaks; acute or chronic when attended by attacks of inflammation. Simple glaucoma presents no very marked symptoms, its onset being most insidious. It is characterised by gradual decrease of acute- ness of vision, with narrowing of the visual field, impairment of the power of accommodation, causing rather rapid increase of presbyopia, sluggishness in the movements of the iris, some dilatation of the pupil, and some apparent haziness of the lens. Increase of tension is probably one of the earliest symptoms, but is very liable to be overlooked until the disease is far advanced and considerable hardness of the globe has taken place. With the ophthalmoscope spontaneous pulsation of the retinal arteries may be seen, or pulsation may be produced by very slight pressure upon the globe. The vessels, especially the veins, are thinner on the surface of the optic disc than in the surrounding retina, and the disc itself more or less cupped. The cup of glau- coma is characterised by a bluish appearance of the greater portion of the disc; upon this blue portion the vessels appear very small and indistinct, or they may be quite invisible; the margin of the disc is white, and the large tortuous retinal vessels are seen curling up over its edge, and appearing on the surface of the retina at a point not continuous with their course upon the nerve surface. Small hae- morrhages may also be met with upon the retina. Sooner or later, in any form of glaucoma, if relief be not given, the condition known as absolute glaucoma is established. The eyeball becomes stony hard, the pupil widely dilated and fixed, the cornea hazy and anaesthetic, the iris and aqueous humour dis- coloured, the anterior chamber shallow, and the lens more or less opaque. A few dilated veins are seen issuing from the globe in the ciliary region, the sclerotic may be somewhat bulged in places and bluish in colour, and the conjunctiva is extremely rotten, tearing on any attempt to seize it with forceps. On examination with the ophthalmoscope all appears dark behind the pupil, or a dull red reflection may be returned from the interior, but no details of the fundus can be made out. All perception of light is lost. . In some cases of acute glaucoma, and almost invariably in chronic glaucoma, the onset of the disease is preceded by premonitory symptoms. These are, as in simple glaucoma, rapidly increasing presbyopia and slight increase of tension of the globe, sluggishness and dilatation of the pupil, some apparent haziness of the lens, and narrowing of the visual field. Besides these we may find some congestion of the veins emerging from the sclerotic in the ciliary region. There may be periodic attacks