476 lilGATtrUE OP CAROTID. Ligature of external carotid. Ligature of tlie Ungual artery. Ligature of the facial artery. Ligature of the temporal artery. Ligature of the external or internal carotid artery is rarely per- formed, the ligature of the common trunk being- preferred. In certain wounds of these arteries near their origin, a ligature may, perhaps, be placed upon them, but the uncertainty of the position of the bleeding point renders the ligature of the common trunk pre- ferable. In the ‘New York Med. Journal,’ January, 1874, a case is recorded by Dr. H. P. Sands, of New York, of successful ligature of the internal carotid artery above and below the bleeding point for secondary haemorrhage occurring ten days after the removal of a cancerous tu- mour. Cervical aneurisms situated on one of the secondary carotids should be diligently treated by compression, and the Hunterian opera- tion only performed when treatment by compression has failed. If the surgeon is required to tie the external carotid, he may do so by adopting the same rules as have been laid down for the common carotid, although the incision should be made a little higher. The course of the vessel foUows the same line as the common carotid, com- mencing at the upper part of the thyroid cartilage. The lingual artery has been ligatured for wounds of the tongue and of the artery itself, to check the growth of cancerous tumomrs, or to arrest haemorrhage from their substance. The operation is diffi- cult. The trunk of the vessel is always to be found at a point above the great cornu of the hyoid hone, and this point must be rendered prominent by the head being well drawn over to the sound side. The best incision is horizontal on a level with the hyoid bone, its centre corresponding to the end of the greater cornu. The skin and facia having been divided, the submaxillary gland will become exposed. On hooking this upwards and dividing the border of the mylo- hyoid muscle the hypoglossal nerve will be seen resting on the hyoglossus muscle. Beneath this muscle and at a lower level than the nerve, the artery will be found. It is in close contact with the tendon of the digastric muscle. The fibres of the hyglossus will always require division to admit of the ligature to be applied. Fig. 150 illustrates these points. An excellent paper on this subject, by M. Demarquay, may be referred to (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1867). The facial artery is always to be found in the greater part of its course close to the anterior border of the masseter muscle, where it is only covered in by skin, platysma, and fascia; and, at this part, a transverse or oblique incision at the lower insertion of the muscle will expose the artery, where it can be ligatured {vide Fig. 149). It is difficult to understand under what circumstances this operation can be called for, as the artery can be so readily controlled by pressure, an acupressure needle and twisted suture over it being the best form to employ. But, where the artery comes off from the external carotid and lies in the submaxillary gland beneath the jaw, it is somewhat deep, and an operation for its ligature by no means easy. _ I have, however had only one opportunity of practising this operation, and it was on a lady set. 25, who was suffering from a cirsoid aneurism of the vessel as it passed through the submaxillary gland. The opera- tion was successful. I saw the case with Dr. Helsham, of Brixton. The temporal artery can always be found and pressed upon in front of the pinna of the ear, over the zygoma. It lies buried in the dense cellular tissue which exists in this spot beneath the skin and fascia, and