229 TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. bone itself. The same violence which breaks the cranium may occasion a concussion of the brain, an extravasation of blood in or upon it, or subsequent inflammation of that organ and its usual consequences.” (Sam. Cooper.) The truth embodied in this extract renders it necessary to consider the treatment of head injuries as a whole; since it is impossible to say, in any case of severe injury to the skull, whether two or more of the conditions mentioned are not associated. When brain concussion has taken place, it may or may not be Treatment in associated with fracture; and it may or may not be followed by sym- early stage ptoms of compression, either from extravasation of blood or secondary *>e inflammation. When a fracture is known to exist either with or without ® ^ depression of bone, the difliculty is not lessened; the brain symptoms may be simply those of a passing concussion, or they may be those of a much more serious injury, such as brain contusion, laceration, or blood extravasation. The severest complications are often ushered in by the mildest symptoms; and therefore the surgeon should always treat every case of injury of the cranium and its contents as serious, as also to be as guarded in his prognosis as he must be uncertain in his diagnosis. “We know not what injury may have heen sustained or what symptoms may supervene; we therefore wait for the subsi- dence of the first impressions, or the development of fresh mischief, and shape our course accordingly.” (Cock.) In any case, therefore, of concussion, however slight, the patient Treatment of ought to be kept quiet for a few days, observe moderation in diet, and mild case of particularly in the use of stimulants. If he moves about it is at a risk concussion. —a risk of secondary inflammation of the concussed or shaken brain, which may prove fatal. In severe concussion, that is, after an injury to the head which is of severe followed by a more or less complete suspension of the functions of the concussion, brain, whether with or without a fracture, equal care is needful. Should the collapse indicative of the first stage be severe, it may be necessary Collapse, to hasten reaction by means of warmth to the body generally, more I particularly to the feet, and, by the application of some stimulant to j the^ nostrils. It is seldom right to do more than this; because if re- Caution in I action does not reappear naturally, or is not hastened by the means hastening I mentioned, it is tolerably certain that the brain mischief is of a severe 1 if not fatal character. Under these circumstances, any more powerful Avoid I means, such as the administration of alcoholic stimulants or powerful alcoholic I enemata, are likely to excite reaction to excess, and thus encourage simulants. I secondary haemorrhage or inflammation within the skull. I When reaction has set in after the collapse—the second stage of Reaction I authors—every source of excitement, mental or physical, should be re- and its ' moved. The patient should be kept in bed with his head raised and treatment, shaved, and the bowels emptied with a mild saline purgative, or a mer- curial purge. If the head be hot, the pulse rapid, and other symptoms of general febrility and brain excitement show themselves, cold lotions or an ice-bag may be applied, and particularly the latter. When the symptoms of excessive reaction are persistent, the commencement of traumatic encephalitis should be suspected; and under these circum- stances active treatment is doubtless required, inasmuch as when acute symptoms of inflammation of the brain or its membranes appear, para- lysis and a fatal coma are not far off.