EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL, ETC. 292 Normal ap- pearance of eyelids. Of conjunc- tiva. Ocular. Palpebral. Fornix. Parts requir- ing special notice. Cornea. Sclerotic. Iris. Lachrymal apparatus. Normal Appearances. The outer surface of the eyelids is covered by soft, delicate skin, which is thrown into folds on every contraction of the orbicularis; their free margins are of some thickness. From the outer edge of this free margin project the lashes in two or three rows, those of the upper lid being thicker and longer than those of the lower. The lashes extend along the whole outer edge of each lid, but are much fewer and more delicate in that portion extending from the tear punctum to the inner canthus. The inner edge of each margin is occupied by the orifices of the Meibomian glands, which are seen as a close set of yellowish points. The ocular conjunctiva is smooth, moist, shining, and transparent, allowing the white sclerotic to show plainly through it; a few vessels are generally seen running from the outer and inner canthi towards the cornea, but these are perfectly consistent with a healthy condition of the membrane. The caruncle and semilunar fold occupy the space immediately external to the inner canthus, the former appearing as a small reddish-grey projection, the latter as a well-defined pinkish fold. The pal/pehral conjunctiva is also smooth, moist, shining, and transparent, and appears to have somewhat of a yellowish colour from the tarsal cartilage, to which it is closely and evenly united, showing through it. That portion of conjunctiva refiected from the lids to the globe (jPor»fa;) appears somewhat thickened and wrinkled,and is slightly more vascular than the ocular and palpebral portions. Certain parts of the conjunctiva require to be specially examined. The portions next the thickened margin of the lid, the fornix, and about the caruncle, are the most likely situations for the lodgment of a foreign body. That portion covering the attached border of the tarsal cartilage also should be noticed, as it is here that granular oph- thalmia manifests itself most plainly. The cornea is smooth, shining, and perfectly transparent throughout, except in the case of old people, in whom a bluish-white rim (arcus senilis) is often seen occupying more or less of the structure, somewhat within its margin; no blood-vessels are seen on its surface or in its substance. The anterior portion of the sclerotic is pearly white, or of a pale bluish tint, and shining. It is plainly visible through the transparent conjunctiva covering it; some fine vascular twigs may occasionally be seen traversing it in front of its equatorial region. The aqueous chamber is filled by the aqueous humour, which is transparent, colour- less, and of such quantity as to preserve the proper curvature of the cornea without causing tension, or allowing of laxity, and to keep it separated from the iris by a considerable interval. The iris varies in colour in different individuals; it is bright and smooth, presenting in health no appearance of blood-vessels. Its plane is exactly vertical; the pupil, situated somewhat to the inner side of the centre of the iris, is perfectly circular, and dilates and contracts quickly with variations of light. The examination of the lachrymal apparatus gives chiefly negative results; the position of the tear puncta closely in contact with the ocular conjunctiva must be noticed; pressure with the finger over the lachrymal sac causes no escape of fluid through the puncta, neither