DELIRIUM TREMEHS. 248 Premonitory symptoms. Its diarac- teristics. Delirium and tremor. Want of sleep. Prostration. Prognosis. persons are bad subjects for any ailment, and it often happens, that when a person of this sort breaks bis leg or meets with some injury requiring surgical treatment, he becomes the subject of delirium tre- mens. Other causes are occasionally at work, such as starvation, mental anxiety, and the over-use of tobacco or opium. The disease is at times ushered in by certain premonitory symptoms, as patients who have once been the subject of an attack are sometimes conscious of the approach of another. A brewer who had been treated for this affection at Guy’s some years ago, when he felt warnings of its advance, on several occasions subsequently applied for admission, and, as a result, the attack was warded off. Depression of mind and body are the chief premonitory symptoms, with restlessness and agitation, gloom and foreboding of evil. Some slight febrile disturbance may also exist, but the one invariable and most important symptom is sleeplessness. The tongue is generally pale and flabby, as well as coated with a whitish fur, and is never dry. The appetite is bad, the breath often foetid, and the bowels confined. The pulse may be quick, though soft and powerless. The skin is always moist, and at times bathed in perspiration. With these symptoms the characteristic delirium with trembling is not far off. It may, however, in surgical practice set in suddenly without warning. The nature of the delirium is very characteristic, and is always accom- panied by illusions which are generally spectral. The patient sees objects that do not exist, and hears sounds that are imaginary; these being always of a strange or frightful nature. At times some delusion as to business or home matters agitates the mind. These same unsound ideas are sometimes fixed during the whole attack j but more commonly succeed one another in rapid rotation. Sleep- lessness under these circumstances is a constant accompaniment The patient will be quiet for a time, muttering words without meaning, or, he will be restless and get out of bed in obedience to some imaginary call. He will pull about his bedclothes, will rise up in bed at one moment under one impression, and lie do^vn again under another. If asked to put out his tongue he will do so, but probably with a jerk; if to give his hand, he will project it with a thrust. A nervous trembling of the extremities, with an utter want of control or steadi- ness of purpose is characteristic. If these symptoms continue, and rest cannot be obtained, prostration of all the powers will rapidly appear, and death supervene from exhaustion or coma. If sleep— sound sleep—can be secured, the symptoms usually mitigate rapidly. The 'prognosis must depend on several considerations. If the patientjbe young and the attack ensue after a short period of drinking, the chances of recovery are hopeful, but if the attack occur in a man of middle age, habituated to over-drinking, and if his liver or kidneys be unsound, it is fraught with much greater danger. If the attack be associated, moreover, with an injury, such as a wound or fracture, another element of danger is introduced. The best guide to the patient’s real condition is the study of the pulse, not merely as to the number of its beats, but with regard to its character. The sphygmo- graph is of great service in such cases, as by its help a “ dicrotic ” state of pulse is often shown where the finger would not indicate it, and such a condition is a bad omen. The most frequent coinplica- tion is pneumonia, which often comes on rapidly and insidiously,