TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 22 After- ireatiuent. Tonics and diet. When early opening requisite. On opening clironic abscesses. Lister’s plan of opening chronic abscesses. Free opening. along the groove in the prohe or director into the swelling. Now, opening the handles, you at the same time open the blades, situated within the abscess, and so tear open the abscess. Lastly, by keeping open the blades of the forceps during the withdrawal of the instrument, you leave a lacerated tract or canal communicating with the collection of pus, which will not readily unite, and will permit the easy exit of matter.” In this way deep cervical and post-pharyngeal abscesses, deep abscesses of the thigh, leg and forearm, may be fearlessly opened. When an abscess has been opened it should be left to discharge by itself, a simple poultice or warm-water dressing being applied over the surface. Any squeezing or pressing upon the walls of the abscess is unnecessary and injui’ious. In some, it is well for a few hours to introduce a piece of oiled lint between the edges of the wound to prevent its closure, more particularly when the deep fascia has been openedj whilst in others of large size, the introduction of “a drainage tube ” made of a piece of india-rubber tubing perforated at intervals may be required. Tonics and good feeding are always essential elements in the treat- ment, sedatives being given only when required. In acute inflammation about the hand or foot an opening cannot be made too early; indeed, it should be made as soon as effusion has taken place, and the soft parts are tense. Under these cii’cumstances an early incision by relieving tension will often save tissue, and the operator must not think that he has done wrong when, on making the incision, he finds no pus exudes. When a chronic abscess requires opening—a question which in every case should be well considered—a free incision should he made into its cavity, its contents evacuated, and the cavity well washed. For this latter purpose nothing has answered so well in my experience as a mixture of one or two drachms of the tincture of iodine to each pint of tepid water; a drainage tube should then be introduced, care being taken that if air enters, its exit also can be guaranteed. The abscess should be washed out daily. Mr. Lister’s plan of covering the opening with a piece of lint soaked in carbolic oil, to prevent the possible admission of air or any septic matter, seems good, whatever may be the theory of its action. I have treated by these means an obscure case of abscess, in a young lady, ffit. 18, of the left loin and abdomen, spreading as far as the median line, and showing itself below Poupart’s ligament. Quarts of pus were evacuated, and the whole closed within a month, or rather degenerated into a small sinus which discharged serum for three or four weeks and then healed without the slightest constitutional disturbance. I have treated likewise a spinal psoas abscess, and others of the thigh aiid loin, with equal success; while another, clearly renal in its origin, might be recorded to support the practice. The practice consists in making a free opening into the abscess, and then applying over it apiece of lint soaked in carbolic oil (one part of acid to twenty of olive oil), beneath which the pus flows away ; in this manner no air is admitted In the subsequent dressings care must be taken to keep the opening surrounded with the vapour of the acid, and the lint should only be removed and be replaced by a freshly steeped piece. No pressure should be made^ upon the walls of the abscess for the purpose of emptying its cavity without the opening being