508 i Harelip. How occurriug. May be double. AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC. Fig. 165. Harelip. This congenital deformity is due to a want of union between the natural centres of development of the upper lip. Thus the upper lip is made up of a central and two lateral portions, the central being con- nected with the intermaxillary bones, and the lateral, with the superior maxillary (Fig. 165). A want of union between tbe central and lateral piece on one side gives rise to simple harelip; a want of union between the central and lateral jiieces to double harelip. ^ When the fissnre is central—a very rare con- dition — the intermaxillary bones are either absent or divided. A specimen of the former exists in the museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, London, and a drawing of a like case taken from a patient of my colleague, Mr. Ho wse, is seen in Fig. 166. These fissures may be partial or complete, and may involve the skin alone as also the bone, and the latter in variable degrees. I have seen in the lip of an adult (Fig. 167) a congenital cicatrix on Showing the develop- ment of the intermn.’t- illary and maxillary bones.—From Fergiis- son. Fig, IGG. the left side of tbe upper lip with a slight elevation of its mucous margin, said to be the very earliest indication of a harelip, and the child of this wo- man had a complete fissure. In more complicated cases, the cleft wiU extend through the alveolar process in a line corresponding with the labial fissure; in others it will involve the hard palate ; while in a still worse class both hard and soft palate will be fissured. In a small percentage of the cases—about a tenth—the harelip is double. In these, it is not uncommon to find a double fissure extend- ing through the palate; the two superior maxillae with the skin having failed to unite with the intermaxillary bones. Under these circum- stances, the intermaxillary bones will often project, covered with a small flap of skin, and at times even stand out from the tip of the nose. In a rare case (illustrated in Fig. 171), the fissure involved the lip and intermaxillary bones alone, the maxillae being complete. Central fissure of lip, with deficiency of in- termaxillary bones. Mr. Howae’a case. Fig. 167. Fig. 168 Fig. 169. A Drawings illustrating the different degrees of single harelip. These points are well illustrated in the annexed drawings which have been taken from patients to show the different degrees of the deformity.