417 HEMORRHAGE AND ITS TREATMENT. i the tourniquet, as well as after its removal, the limb or stump should Direct I always be elevated for a few seconds to empty the veins. When well pressure. I applied, direct 'pressure stops the flow of blood, and when such » means appear to be sufficient for the treatment of the case, i care should be employed in its application. The first pad to be ■ applied to the bleeding part should be small and compact, corre- J spending in size to the last joint of the thumb ; a larger one should be ^ placed over it and carefully adjusted, and a third covering in the whole. ) These are to be firmly bound down over the bleeding vessel with a ^ bandage or some unyielding strapping, care being taken that the I pressure employed is sufficient to control the bleeding, but not enough { to arrest wholly the circulation through a limb, thereby producing I gangrene of the parts below. ^ When direct pressure is inapplicable, indirect pressure, as it is called. Indirect ior pressure by means of a tourniquet applied to the main artery of a Pressure, limb above the wound, may be employed j and in operations upon the extremities, this is the best mode of preventing or arresting hajinorrhage, the tourniquet being accurately applied over the main I artery, but not screwed up till the operation is about to be commenced. For mere temporary purposes, the main artery may be compressed by I the finger of the surgeon or of a skilled assistant; but for a lengthened period, this method is untrustworthy, it being impossible for any ordi- nary man to maintain firm pressure upon a vessel for more than a few minutes consecutively. The use of the weight as shown in Fig. 131 may be recommended. As a temporary means of arresting bleeding, however, manual pressure is of immense value, and should be applied to the femoral artery below Poupart’s ligament for the lower extremity ; .. and on the inner side of the biceps muscle for the upper, the fingers (j or thumb of the surgeon being employed according to convenience. (I In recent times, what is known as Esmarch’s method of arresting Esmarch’s ^ hffiinoiThage has met with considerable support. It consists first, in ap- meihod. i| plying an elastic bandage from the extremity of the limb to be operated il on to a point above the site of the operation, and secondly, in the appli- cation of an india-rubber band or tube, tightly above the upper border I of the elastic bandage, which can then be removed. By this fl method, the parts below the band have been rendered bloodless, and ' the surgeon may explore a limb, excise a tumour, joint, or bone, and even amputate, with the loss at the time of a spoonful of blood. if The method has, however, one objection, which is that when the Objection to b band is removed blood oozes from the soft parts to a far greater extent “>ethod. £ than under other circumstances, the smaller vessels apparently becom- I paralysed by the compressing bandage, or, from their having been 'I completely emptied. The operation which is bloodless during the i. cutting process is, on the whole, therefore followed by the loss of as I; much blood as generally follows other methods. For amputations, I 19 never employ now the compressing bandage, but elevate the limb to Il empty it of venous blood, and, with the hand press the blood upwards, d I then use the elastic band or india-rubber tube as a tourniquet, ’«i having found by this method that all the advantages of Esmarch’s plan *1 are secured with less of the disadvantages. For exploratory operations ' and the removal of small foreign bodies, excision of joints, and