2 INTEOmrCTION. Its principle. To form a diagnosis of a case mainly on probabilities as indicated by symptoms may be a ready, but it will always prove a rash pro- ceeding. To form it on possibilities will be a safe, although, perhaps, a less expeditious course. The Surgeon who acts upon the first method must, at times, fall into grave errors, although his diagnosis will often appear brilliant and be successful j while be wbo habitually forms an opinion after taking into consideration every possibility of the case, and comes to a result by a process of exclusion, must surely, on the whole, be more certain in his ends, as he will be safer and sounder in his practice. I lay down therefore the following proposition as a , guiding principle of investigation applicable alike to all cases of injury as well as of disease. Mclu8?op^ That in the diagnosis of a case, every possibility of its nature should he entertained, and a conclusion arrived at by a process of elimination ; each possibility should be separately considered and iveighed, and the most probable finally accepted; a diagnosis wholly framed on probabilities being most hazardous. Example. For example, a tumour at the femoral ring may possibly be an abscess, an aneurism, or a varix, cyst, hernia, enlarged gland, or a new growth. An abdominal tumour may be ovarian, uterine, peri- toneal, vesical, splenic, fmcal, renal or hydatid. Its probable nature will be best arrived at by eliminating each of these possibilities seriatim after a due consideration of all its clinical symptoms: the most probable diagnosis being finally accepted on evidence both negative and positive. How to With the above great principle of practice as a guide in clinical diagnose. investigation, I now proceed to consider how any injury or disease is to be investigated, confining my observations to classes of injury and disease. I do not propose, however, to point out here the exact mode in which it is well to examine a case or to report it—for a report is only a w.ritten examination—although at pages 7 and 8 an outline will be seen, which may probably be found of service. I drew it out many years ago when surgical registrar at Guy’s, where it has been generally fol- lowed ever since. How to IirVESTIGATE A CASE. Wlien a surgeon is called to a patient, his questions naturally apply first of all to the seat of disease or injury. Is it in the head, chest, abdomen, or extremities ? He will then ask as to its dm-ation or when the injury was received ? or when was the disease discovered ? If a case of injury, his inquiries would tend to elicit the exact mode of its pro- duction, the force employed, and the character of the instrument by which it was produced; for these points are of essential importance under all circumstances, and in head injuries they often give the key to the solution of many questions. By these means the exact seat of injury will probably be indicated, and the Surgeon will be led to make a close examination of the injured part; but he should never fail to assure himself that all other parts of the body are sound and in work- ing order, and that no other is involved in disease, or is the subject of injury j for it would be a forlorn hope to amputate for a crushed limb when associated with a ruptured liver, or to reduce a dislocated joint when combined with some fatal internal lesion. In a case of injury to or disease of the head or nervous system, the most important point the surgeon has to determine has reference to the