124 CANCEK0U3 TTJMOTJRS. Epithelial cancer. Situation. Sweeps’ cancer. May spread rapidly. Epithelial cancer: its characters. be mentioned that exceptional cases are on record where an osteoid cancer originated in some intermuscular interspaces. Epithelioma and epithelial cancer are terms given to a form of cuta- neous cancer from its similarity in structure to the epithelial elements of the natural skin. In the chain of malignancy, epithelial cancers are linked to the recurrent tumours, for they have both a tendency to return in a part after their removal, and to affect the system through the lymphatics; while in exceptional instances they may be found in the internal organs. These tumom’s affect the skin or mucous membrane, and never originate in any other tissue. They possess this feature also in common with the more malignant cancers, in that they have a constant tendency to infiltrate the parts with which they come in contact, and do not, as innocent tumours, simply separate them. They are the common forms of cancer found in the lip, tongue, oesophagus, rectum, scrotum, penis, clitoris, os uteri, vulva, &c.; and may be described as the cancer of the skin, while in sweeps it is known as the “ chimney sweep’s cancer.” Epithelial cancer is essentially an infiltrating disease j it is not, as the sebaceous, fatty, fibro-cellular or fibrous tumour, a distinct growth developed in the tissues and separating them, but it is from its very beginning an infiltration. It begins, as a rule, in a wart or tubercle, which grows; it may fungate, crack, fissure, or ulcerate, and when this latter stage has been arrived at, its true character will at once be observed by the careful examiner, as the integument forming its base and margin will be evidently infiltrated with the cancerous material, presenting the well-known raised, indurated, and everted edges (Fig. 25). These appearances form a marked contrast to the condition of integument which in an innocent growth has been ulcerated or rup- tured by over-distension. As a local disease, this epithelioma may progress slowly for years and cause little pain, inconvenience, or injurious effects; five, six, eight, or even fifteen years having elapsed in some of the cases that have been under my notice before advice was again sought, and it may con- tinue for many years before it affects a patient in other ways than by the local disease. On the other hand, when it once begins to spread, it may do so rapidly; after removal it may return at once, not only in the parts, but in the lymphatics of the district, and even in the in- ternal organs. When it spreads locally, it may, as a cancer, infil- trate and invade every tissue which it reaches. I have seen it more than once originate in skin and end in a total destruction of a bone (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.” 1875). Epithelial cancer is made up of cells, differing but little from those of ordinary epithelium, though they are grouped very differently, m-. Cancer of stump, of two years’ stand- ing, from a man, set. 58.