23 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. covered with carbolic oil. I have, however, used, in several cases, olive oil alone with equally good results. With the similar object of excluding air and its impurities, the use of the trocar and canula have been suggested, a Trocar and valvular skin opening being secured by drawing the integument to one side before making the puncture. The trocar invented by Mr. Thompson, of Westerham, is also good. In it an elastic tube is fitted to a second mouth below the instrument. But beyond any of these in their usefulness, when such a practice is demanded. Dr. G. Dieulafoy’s “ aspirator ” is to be preferred; for by it the contents of any cavity can readily he Aspirator. explored or withdrawn, without the possibility of the entrance of air. Suppurating ovarian and hydatid cysts may be treated as large ab- scesses, and with considerable success. Empyemata or abscesses in the chest can also be dealt with on the same principle, by a free opening into file thorax and a free outlet for the pus. In these cases the drainage tube is of gre.at value, care being necessary to drop one end of it well d)wn to the bottom of the cavity. The drainage tube was suggested by M. Chassaignac, and is simply a Drainage snail india-rubber tube, perforated every inch or so with holes to tube, allow of the free escape of the pus. When large cavities are opened they slrauld be washed out, at intervals, with an iodine lotion or Condy’s riuid, so that nothing like decomposition, as indicated by foetor, may be allowed. With this precaution large suppurating cavities ctn be dealt with successfully. When veins and large arteries are opened, by ulceration, into abscesses —an accident of occasional occurrence—they should be treated on the pnnciple laid down in the chapter on hajinorrhage; i.e., if the bleeding vessel be large, it should be secured at the point at which ithas given way, either by ligature or torsion; and if small, the hajmor- rlage can easily be arrested by pressure. Chronic abscesses associated with glandular enlargement need not be Abscesses oieiied under some circumstances, because with constitutional treatment associated tley often disappear; yet they should be so treated as soon as it is clear enlarged tlat they will open by natural processes, if let alone, in order to save the glands, ujly cicatrix that takes place under these circumstances from ulceration oi the skin. The surgeon should make a small puncture in the best line tc allow of the exit of the pus and to prevent disfigurement. Gentle p.’essure with cotton wool over the part afterwards, often hastens the I’icovery. In subjects of the limmorrhagic diathesis an abscess may be opened by the cautery or canula. Arrest of Acute Inflammation hy the Obstruction of the Main Artery of the part. To arrest acute inflammation in a limb, the deligation of the main On arrest of artery of the limb, or the arrest of the circulation through it hy pres- j“fla'"niatioii sure upon the artery, has been adopted. Dr. Campbell, of New Orleans, o/maiif* speaks highly of the practice, and even affirms that no portion of an artery, extremity should be amputated for destructive inflammation without this experiment being attempted. On the suggestion of Mr. Maunder, Examples, of the London Hospital, Mr. Little, in 1867, applied a ligature to the femoral artery for acute suppuration of the knee, with a success suffi- cient to prove the value of the practice. Mr. Maunder, too, has since successfully had a similar result (“ Lettsom. Lect.,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1875). The late Mr. Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, also acupressed the brachial