CARBUNCLE. 169 order, corrected, mild laxatives being often of service. When the shin is secreting unhealthily, the Turkish or warm hath is of great benefit; moreover alkalies or acids ought also to be given when the condition of the stomach needs them; alkalies and bitters are often of great benefit. When debility exists, quinine is invaluable, and in London or large towns, its combination with iron is required. When diabetes is present, the “feeding” treatment is probably the best. Dr. Jackson, of the United States, gives twelve to sixteen grains of quinine a day, increas- Quinine, ing the dose daily until its special effects are produced, and then de- creasing it. He continues the treatment for a month. Yeast in doses Yeast as a of a table-spoonful, taken fasting three times a day, occasionally medicine, appears to have a rapidly marked beneficial effect, although in what w'ay it acts it is difficult to say. The local treatment must be directed much by the local symptoms, Local it being, as a rule, a better course to let the boil discharge itself or treatment, dry up thau to lance it. In the early stage of the papular or follicular form of boil, the free application of alcohol, spirit of camphor, the nitrate of silver, liquor potass®, or iodine tincture, is often followed by its disappearance; but in the other kind all such applications are worse than useless. When the pain is great from the tension of the part, and the areola of inflammation is spreading, relief may generally be given by lancing, and when the slough is slow in separating, the introduction incision into the opening of a point of potassa fusa is followed by the rapid "■hen great cleansing of the wound and granulation. Poultices may be applied ^®usion. for a limited period during the sloughing stage, but not for any length of time, as they often encourage the appearance of others; water dressing is, however, generally preferable. When the local inflamma- mation is not great, the plan of covering the boil with a piece of plaster with a hole in the centre, is very beneficial. At times, paint- ing the areola with collodion or colloid styptic answeps well. When boils succeed one another seriatim, without any definite cause, change of air is a most successful remedy. ^ Carbuncle. This is a far more serious affection than a boil, for it is almost 0“ always met with in the feeble and cachectic subject, and generally in men, rich or poor, over forty-five. It is very frequently associated with diabetes, and gouty patients are particularly prone to its attack. It generally occurs singly, and is slow in its progress, tbe inflam- mation in the skin and cellular tissue beneath spreading as a brawny inflammatory effusion, with no defined border. Tbe redness of skin is rarely vivid, more frequently livid; at times tbe local pain is severe, and constitutional depression very great. The sloughs separate slowly, many openings, as of many boils, allowing them to escape, and the whole skin at times separates as an ash-coloured layer, leaving an irregular cavity undermining the neighbouring tissues. The favorite Situation, seats of carbuncle are the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the nape of the neck, back, and buttock. They occur, however, on the front of the body and the extremities, and at times on the lip or face. The disease is so slow in its progress as at times to occupy many weeks, one Slow part going through its course while the disease spreads in another, progress. It may destroy life by exhaustion or by pymmia; the worst form of pymmia arises from it; indeed, M. Labat (‘Med.-Chir. Soc. Bor-