DENTAL SDEGERY. 578 Exposure of pulp to be avoided. Ulcerating condition of pulp. Devitaliza- tion and extirpation of pulp. large cavities on the masticating surfaces of teeth in which the pulp is almost exposed, it is a most valuable substance; and if it wears away on the surface, some of it may with advantage be left in the lower part of the cavity, while the upper part is packed with gold. A saturated solution of mastic in spirits of wine (or some such prepara- tion) mixed with cotton wool, is serviceable as a temporary filling when a carbolic-acid dressing has to be retained in the tooth for any time not exceeding a fortnight. Whatever stopping is used, the cavity should be kept absolutely dry while it is being filled. The front upper teeth, which are very liable to interstitial decay, can (especially in the young) be temporarily separated by wedging them apart, thus allowing of their being filled from the side or lingual surface without interfering with their contour or leaving the stopping visible; B and C in Fig. 243 show how hidden cavities in other situa- tions can be reached and stopped, if they cannot be got at by a gradual process of wedging. In shaping cavities for filling, the proximity of the pulp with its outstanding cornua has to be borne in mind, and its exposure avoided. {See Molar, in D, Fig. 243.) If a healthy pulp is exposed in preparing a tooth for stopping, a cap of some non-conducting material, which has been moistened with car- bolic acid, should be at once placed over it, and then a stopping intro- duced. {See Bicuspid, in D, Fig. 243.) If an exposed pulp has become inflamed at the point of its exposure, and has taken on a secreting action, repeated dressings with carbolic acid’ to get rid of this ulcerating condition may be had recourse to; and if successful, a stopping may be introduced over the capped pulp; but as a rule, if the pulp has shrunk away from the aperture of ex- posure, or been the seat of continued pain, it cannot be preserved with comfort, and the best treatment in such a case consists in rapidly bringing about its death by the application of arsenious acid, and then, when it is devitalised, by withdrawing it and thoroughly filling the pulp chamber and its root extensions. {See Bicuspid, in E, Fig. 243.) The accompanying series of drawings, A, B, c, d, e. Fig. 243, illus- trate progressive disease in a tooth and its treatment.