EXTRACTION OE TEETH. 589 In the case of a much broken-down or hoUowed-out lower molar, Use of stump instead of using molar forceps, it is better to grasp with stump forceps for forceps the one of the two roots which offers the best hold, and if the ^^te?roois union between the roots is not strong enough to allow of their with- drawal together, the remaining separate root will be easily removed. The three undivided roots of a crownless upper molar may be ex- tracted with “ Coleman’s forceps,” or with long flat-bladed, loose-jointed stump forceps as made by Collins. Occasionally dividing forceps may be used with advantage in extract- ing united roots of either upper or lower molars. When a root is partially covered over with gum the position of Use of its edges should be defined with a probe before any attempt is made to searcher, grasp it. With well-made forceps, lancing the gums before extraction is Lancing usually unnecessary, but sometimes, especially in isolated teeth, the previous to gum is strongly adherent to the tooth and is apt to be torn away with extraction, it if not first separated. Fistulous openings on the face are seldom seen in connection with children’s temporary teeth, but the external alveolar plate is often perforated, and the end of a root projects through and causes ulcera- tion, which may lead to adhesion between gum and cheek ; the teeth causing this irritation are easily pushed out with an elevator. Persistent haemorrhage following the extraction of a tooth and re- Hfcmorrhage sisting cold may be stayed by tightly packing the socket with rolls of after softened matico leaf (Tomes), or with a strip of lint cut to a point and ^’ttiaction. dipped in a spirit solution of tannin, a compress being placed over and Its kept in place by the opposite teeth. At the same time astringents or featment. iron should be given internally if the haemorrhagic diathesis exists, or appropriate measures be taken if the bleeding in the case of a woman appears to be vicarious. When natural teeth are lost, artificial ones unquestionably conduce Artificial to comfort and health. teeth. In elderly people teeth that project in an unsightly manner can often be shortened with much advantage and without pain. The roots of upper front teeth and of lower teeth, if healthy, may often be retained in the mouth with gain. The wholesale and indiscriminate extraction of teeth is to be strongly reprobated, leading, as it does, to premature absorption of the alveolar processes, and thus often reducing in middle age the lower jaw to a level with the root of the tongue, and, therefore, ill-fitted to support artificial teeth. Several painful cases resulting from extreme absorption, due to this practice, have lately been seen by me. In the cases of cleft or perforate palate which are not amenable to Obturators surgical treatment, artificial restoration should be had recourse to. soft An obturator should only span the orifice in recent cases of perfora- ^ ® tion, in order that occlusion by the approximation of the edges of the opening may not be interfered with, and in no case should a method of fixing in the plate be used that will tend to enlarge the aperture.