619 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. operation in 1849, and Mr. Cooper Forster, on the suggestion of Dr. ; Habershon, was the first to do it in this country in 1857. Since then ; Mr. Sydney Jones, Fenger of Copenhagen, Lanvielonque of Bordeaux, , Durham, Le Gros Clark, Mac Cormac, T. Smith, V. Jackson, and myself, have had cases, making twenty-one in all. When a foreign body becomes im'pacted in the small intestine, and life is threatened, it is a question how far the surgeon is justified in attempt- ing its removal. I can see no reason why an attempt should not he made, when the course of the case has proved that natural processes are incom- petent to rid the offending body and life is threatened by its presence. When the colon, ccecmi, or its appendage, is the seat of impaction there is less objection to the attempt, for as colotomy is now known to be a valuable operation for cancerous or other obstruction of the rectum, and in cases of suppuration about the cajcum free incisions in the iliac fossa are of proved value, so laparotomy is not less likely to prove of service when the obstruction is caused by the presence of a foreign body. Intestinal Obstruction. In cases of acute or chronic intestinal obstruction when the When body physician’s art has failed to give relief, the surgeon’s aid is occasionally impacted in required, and it would be well for the medical mind to recognise the Mischkf of fact, that in a large proportion of instances, this aid is sought at too delay, late a period—that is, when the patient’s powers have become so ex- hausted as to exclude all hope of a successful issue being obtained by any treatment—or, when the involved tissues have midergone such changes from peritoneal complications as to forbid any reasonable expectation of the competency of nature’s reparative powders to effect a cure; as cases of acute intestinal obstruction, like those of strangulated hernia, require prompt and active treatment if they are to be suc- cessful, while those of chronic obstruction require a no less decided line of action. It must he admitted, however, that there is no class of cases which claim for diagnostic purposes more thought and judgment, the difficulties of diagnosis ns to the cause of the obstruction being some- Difficulty of times great j the question of operative relief has consequently to he diagnosis, decided upon uncertam groimds. Yet, when the diagnosis is clear and the nature of the case decided, delay is dangerous, and a want of courage to act upon the diagnosis is criminal in the surgeon. The question of diagnosis is consequently all important, and will first claim attention. Diagnosis.—In a clinical point of view, cases of intestinal obstruction may be divided into acute and chronic. The acute, mclude strangulation of a portion of bowel from internal hernia, omental, mesenteric, peri- toneal, or foetal bands, or twists of the intestine (volvulus). The chronic: inflammatory or cancerous strictures of the large or small intestine; the occlusion of the how'el from the mechanical pressure of tumours; adhesions of the intestines from chronic inflammatory peri- toneal or former acute changes; and last, but not least, the impaction of fajces. Perityphlitis and acute peritonitis due to perforation may also simulate the acute form. Intussusception belongs to both divisions, because w'hen strangulated they may give rise to acute, and when incarcerated, to chronic symptoms, although the symptoms in their onset are always sudden. The relative frequency of these conditions will be seen in the following table;—