INJURIES TO THE ABDOMEN, 612 repair of the injury, and thus jeopardise life by increasing the risk of extravasation. When the intestine is wounded or suspected to have been wounded, the same care is necessai’y, although ice or iced milk in limited quan- tities, may be allowed to satisfy thirst. Opium. Opium of course should be given, and is best administered by sup- positories—the morphia suppositories of the pharmacopoeia being the best preparation to employ in all cases of abdominal surgery. The principles of treatment, however, are the same as have been laid down Wound to be in former pages. In all penetrating wounds of the abdomen in which left open. any evidence of wounded viscera exists, the local wound should he left open, or covered only with a loose covering; for to close the wound so as to prevent the escape of the contents of the wounded viscus ex- ternally, would be to close the only gate through which return to health is possible. Abnormal Anus, Faecal Fistula. Faecal fistula. Confining the term “ artificial anus'’ to the surgical operation of forming an anus otherwise than natural for the relief of intestinal ob- struction, whether by colotomy or enterotomy, an “abnormal anus,” or intestinal fistula—fistula—or an unnatural communication between the intestinal canal and the outside of the body, is generally the result of a sloughing or ulcerating bowel in strangulated hernia; although it may occur, either from a wound of the intestine from some external cause, or, from a perforation of the intestine from an ulcerat- ing process originating from within. When it follows a hernia, the opening is usually at the neck of the hernial sac; when it follows a wound, at the seat of injury; when it is the result of some ulcerative process originating from within, the fsecal abscess may burrow into the pelvis (opening into the vagina, bladder, or even bowel again), or between the abdominal muscles, and make its appearance in the groin, iliac fossa, or loin. When the opening is large and direct into the bowel it has been called “ artificial anus;” when small, indirect, or fistulous, “ faecal or intestinal fistula.” Wheu wound The most important point, however, connected with this subject has small. reference to the amount of intestine involved. When only a small por- tion of its calibre has been lost, the fistula generally will be small; when a large portion of its calibre or a whole knuckle has been involved, the When wound faecal orifice will be large. Under these circumstances the two orifices is large. communicating with the upper and lower ends of the bowel respectively b°tw'°n the generally be made out, a fold of membrane formed by the junction two'^ends. ^ of t,he bent tube standing as a partition between the two portions of the gut. At times, this partition will project so far forward as to close completely the orifice of the lower part of the bowel, and this is the usual state of affairs when a complete knuckle of bowel has been involved in the disease, and under these circumstances a cure by natural processes is almost impossible. At other times, the partition will be but limited, and a portion only of the contents of the bowel will pass externally, the other portion taking its normal course downwards towards the anus, when it is more than probable that nature alone, or but slightly assisted by art, will effect a cure. Prolapse of When the orifice is large, there is almost always some prolapse of the bowel. bowel. Under all these conditions, the intestines within the abdo- men are closely connected by means of adhesions to the external