INJURIKS TO THE ABDOMEN. 610 Protruded omentum. Treatment. Protruded bowel uninjured. Protruded l)owel and injured. Wound involving nearly wliole calibre. alone take place, but when it occurs, the protruded viscus is very liable to bo strangulated. In large wounds, the hernia will probably be of greater extent, but their constriction is rare. When omentum protrudes through a recent wound and is unin. injured, it should be washed by means of a stream of water squeezed over it from a sponge or emitted from a syringe, and returned with all gentleness, the patient being placed in such a position as to relax the injured muscles. The wound should never be enlarged to allow of the return of omentum When the omentum has been extruding for some time, aud is congested from incarceration or stran- gulation, when it has become inflamed or perhaps sloughing, it is well to leave the mass alone, at least, it is not wise to make any attempt at its reduction. As time goes on and the projecting mass swells and granu- lates, it may be well to ligature the whole in halves. This should not, be done, however, for at least two weeks after its protrusion. During this time the greatest quiet should be enforced, aud moderate doses of opium given with liquid food. After a few days, all fear of peritonitis will have passed. Some prefer not to interfere with the protrusion, in the belief that it will wither up sooner or later, but such a process is tedious, and the application of a ligature to it, moreover, in halves is rarely attended with any risk. If the omentum is much bruised or torn at the time of injury, such injured portions may be cut off and all divided vessels secured. When the bowel protrudes through the wound and is uninjured, it should be cleansed aud returned under all circumstances, the wound being carefully enlarged in the course of the muscular fibres for the pm'pose, should its reduction be otherwise impossible. To facilitate this, the muscle should be relaxed, and the parts last descended, returned first. In returning the intestine the pressure should be directly back- wards ; if made obliquely, the bowel may be pushed up beneath the fascia or muscles, and thus outside the peritoneum. The wound should be closed by sutures aud treated as already described. When the protruded bowel is gangrenous, it must be left in sit'd to slough and that an artificial anus may form, the wound in the abdo- minal parietes being enlarged; but where there is a prospect of its recovery, the abdominal cavity is its best place. When the intestine is wounded and the opening a mere prick, through which no intestinal contents exude, the bowel may be returned, a few hours being enough for the wounded part to become sealed by plastic exudation and repair to be completed. When the mucous lining protrudes, the opening should be tied by a single ligature. When the wound is sufficiently large to permit of the escape of the visceral con- tents, it must be stitched up with one of the forms of suture seen in Fig. 35 or 254, cleaned and returned, the ends of the sutures being cut off close. When the wound involves nearly the whole calibre of the botcel, it is wiser to stitch the edges of the bowel to those of the w'ound, thereby making an artificial anus, than to stitch the two divided ends of the intestine together, and to return the whole into the abdominal cavity. Pollock (‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ vol. ii) says, how- ever, if the division be caused by a clean sharp instrument, the ex- tremities may be brought together with sutures and returned; but if the separation be the result of an irregular lacerated wound, as Sutures.