ON SEPTICEMIA. 59 every hundred. They are more frequently found involved after disease of the urinary organs than of any other, and after suppurative disease of the cellular tissue, particularly of that surrounding the shafts of bones. In the spleen, large abscesses are often present. Suppuration may other likewise be found in the brain, heart, prostate, testis, tongue, thyroid organs. gland, and, in fact, in any portion of the body. In the cellular tissue of the trunk and extremities a diffused suppuration is very common, as it is also common in the joints. When inflammation attacks serous membranes, such as the pleura «. Serons and peritoneum, there seems good reason to believe that it arises from “lenitreues. the extension of disease from the lung, liver, or spleen; but in the joints no such extension can be made out. The sterno-clavicular arti- Joints, culation is more frequently involved than any other, for I find that out of the twenty-five instances in which joint complication existed, this w’as involved in eight Any joint may, however, be affected. In some cases the articulation is only filled with an increase of synovia, in others the contents are puriform—sometimes purulent. At times the pus in the joint appears to be so slightly irritating that the cartilage and the synovial membrane are uninj ured by its presence, whilst at others it is so destructive as to produce complete disorganisation, the bones form- ing the joint being under these circumstances exposed, and at times necrotic. When these changes occur they are, probably, sometimes due to acute articular ostitis. The skin has occasionally a vesicular or pustular eruption upon it, and /. Skin, too frequently spots or patches are present, which at times lead onto mortification; and in connection with this subject “we may men- tion another evidence of the blood disease in the rapid decomposition of the bodies and the marking of the veins on the surface. Thus, before the body is scarcely cold, there may sometimes be seen the blue and red coursing of the veins and the colouring which has exuded from them into the tissues.” (Wilks.) Lastly, it is to be noted that it is exceptional to meet with any Inflammation evidence of phlebitis, general or local; and this leads me to consider, although briefly, the now already abandoned and untenable theory ®*®®Phonal. that phlebitis, or inflammation of a vein, is the invariable cause of pyrnmia. The most telling evidence against the theory is the one just mentioned, that it is only in exceptional cases of pysemia that any evidence can be Phlebitis found of phlebitis; and the second is almost equally strong, because “ so not far from phlebitis being a cause of pysemia, it is remarkable how often P)®niia. the former occurs without any contamination of the blood whatever; that is, if we can call that phlebitis where we find a vein and its branches quite closed by coagulum or adherent fibrin ” (Wilks). Moreover, “ it is a question whether, in those cases in which the veins are plugged or inflamed, thrombosis and phlebitis are not the local, and pyaemia the general effect of the same cause ” (Savory)—that is, blood infec- tion. With these views I cordially agree. That blood poisoning may take place through veins is certain, although, as I have already shown, inflammation of their coats does not necessarily lead to it; neither is it probable that the absorption of pus, as pus, is the usual cause; for when pus mixes with blood, coagulation is produced, and thus its circulation is prevented. There seems, however, good reason to believe that the fluid portion of pus or of some decomposing inflammatory product may be taken up by the veins and carried into