576 DENTAL STJEGERY. lusidioua character of. Paiu a beneficent warning. Frequent inspection recom- mended. Natural depressions favour the development of caries. Decay at sides of teeth that are in contact. Fig. 242. Among preventive measures must be classed what may be termed preventive stopping. For example, a small spot of decay is often found near the distal edge (of the masticating surface) of the second temporary molar; if this be not stopped the decayed posterior surface of the tooth will come in contact with the mesial surface of the first permanent molar on its eruption, and decay be started in it; then on the shedding of the temporary molar, its successor, the second bicuspid, will have its distal surface exposed to decay from contact with that already existing in the first molar, and thus from lack of a small stop- ping in a temporary tooth, two permanent teeth are frequently lost or only saved by elaborate fillings. Ihe progress of decay is usually very insidious, a minute and unnoticed fault or fissure of the ena- mel often leading to extensive decay of the dentine. (See decay depicted on masticating surface of mohir in D, Fig. 243.) A warning by pain is by no means always given, but sometimes a twinge or slight ache is experienced when the peri- phery of the dentine is reached and be- comes irritated by saccharine or sapid substances or by thermal changes; if this warning is neglected, often nothing more is felt, till an acute twinge shows that the pulp is exposed, or a caving-in of the enamel reveals a large cavity. It thus happens that the detection of decay in its earlier stages can only be insured by frequent inspection of the teeth. Such inspections should begin with the first teeth and be carried out systematically several times a year if the teeth are to be preserved and much stopping avoided. For the purpose of examination, a mouth mirror and a pointed instrument are required; the double-pointed searcher here figured (Fig. 242) is particularly useful, its curved ends being adapted to pass between the necks of the teeth; it should be employed very lightly in finding out whether a pulp is exposed. The natural fissures and all depressions of the tooth’s surface, together .with the sides of such teeth as are in contact, should be carefully examined. A darken- ing of fissures often points to decay in their depths, and its presence in them may be considered certain if the fine point of the searcher passes through to the dentine. Enamel, on the plane surface of a tooth, when affected by decay, is usually first opaque and of a chalky whitepess, but may become brown or blackened. In interstitial decay the defect in the enamel, being out of sight, usually escapes detection, and the first evidence of its presence is given by a darkening of the underlying dentine, which I