ERYSIPELAS. u sufficient stimulants to maintain the circulatory system and assist digestion. Tonics, such as quinine and iron, are often well borne in large doses, five grains of the former dissolved in half a drachm of the tincture of the perchloride of iron being a good recipe, or, when quinine cannot be taken, the tincture of nux vomica in ten-drop doses may be substituted. Opium is an admirable drug when the ulcerative action is present, but in the sloughing stage it is not so satisfactory. It may be given in any of its forms. Chloral is probably a good remedy for a like purpose. ERYSIPELAS. Deflnition. Not liospital disease. Varieties. Its essential characters. Symptoms. a. Constitu- tional. Erysipelas is a specific disease due to the presence of some blood poison that has probably been introduced into the body from without. It is intimately allied with other blood poisons, such as are found in scarlet or puerperal fevers, or septicaemia in any of its forms; for these poisons seem to be convertible. It is not so much au hospital disease as is generally believed, only 172 cases having taken place in Guy’s Hospital in the five years ending with 1876 out of 9255 surgical patients which were admitted, or 1'85 per cent. No less than 253 cases were however admitted with the affection, and some of those recorded as having been transferred from one of the wards, simply passed through it. It manifests its presence in three forms;—As a diffused cutaneous inflammation, “ simple cutaneous erysipelasas a diffused inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue, “ diffused cellular inflammationand as a diffused inflammation of both skin and cellular tissue combined, “ phlegmonous erysipelasthe two latter being iucluded in the expression “ cellulo-cutaneous.” The state of the system, the tempe- rament and habits of the individual, have much to do in determining the form of the affection. When the disease follows an injury, it is called “ traumaticwhen it occurs spontaneously, it is styled “ idio- pathic.” The peculiarity of erysipelas lies in the diffused character of the inflammation and in its atonic natime. It is both infectious and contagious. The attack is occasionally preceded by some constitutional disturb- ance, but as often as not such has not been observed ,• the severity of the general symptoms, moreover, in no way bear any proportion to that of the local disease. Febrile symptoms ushered in by chilliness and rigor, are the most common, the tongue being probably a foul one, and the bowels constipated or relaxed. As the disease advances the fever runs high; delirium of different forms appear and the pulse becomes quickened: but if full, it will always be compressible, and often irre- gular or intermittent. Towards the close of the disease, particularly when terminating unfavorably, the pulse will be small and weak. The temperature at the first onset of this disease as a rule rises rapidly, and, in its decline, falls as fast {vide figs. 4 and 5). When the tempera- ture remains high, a bad prognosis should be given. C. de Morgan, Nunneley, and H. Bird assert, that if the pulse rise in frequency after the sixth or seventh day it is a very bad sign. I cannot, however, endorse this observation, although, as the end of the first