310 OPHTHALMIA. Application of green stone, &c. Catari'hal ophthalmia. Chronic ophthalmia. Phlyctenular ophthalmia. quantity of camphor), and solid nitrate of silver. In order to apply any of these the patient should be seated in a chair, and the surgeon standing behind, as in Fig. 93, p. 340; should evert the lids and lightly rub their conjunctival surface with either. If a preparation of nitrate of silver be employed, the conjunctiva should be washed with salt and water immediately after the application. Varieties of Ophthalmia. Catarrhal ophthalmia is commonly caused by draughts of cold air is highly contagious, and acute in its course. The conjunctiva, both ocular and palpebral, is highly injected, and sometimes swollen; there may be small extravasations of blood in the structure of the former; there is a thick, yellow, tenacious discharge. One or both eyes may be affected, the disease usually commencing in one, and spreading to the other in the course of two or three days. Treatment in the early stages, before there is any amount of dis- charge.—Some soothing application (as decoction of poppy-heads) should be employed; later on, an astringent should be used, and some mild nitrate of mercury or spermaceti ointment smeared on the edges of the lids at bed-time, to prevent their becoming gummed together during sleep. The patient (or, in the case of a child, its parents) should be warned of the contagious nature of the disease, and no sponges, towels, &c., which he is in the habit of using, should be used by other people. Among the poorer classes it is very common to see a whole family suffering from catarrhal ophthalmia. • Chronic ophthalmia is usually a sequel of some more acute form; , the palpebral conjunctiva is reddened, the ocular conjunctiva present- ing patches of slightly increased vascularity, but no general redness, as in cases of catarrhal ophthalmia; the lids are often somewhat thick- ened, and the caruncle and semilunar fold swollen. There is slight mucous discharge, which forms dry crusts on the margins of the lids, and, at the inner canthus, overflow of tears may occur from obstruction or displacement of the tear puncta. Treatment, the same as that of catarrhal ophthalmia. The disease may continue for almost any time, and when one remedy appears to I have lost its effect another should be tried. Phlyctenular ophthalmia, usually met with in children and young I adults, especially females, is characterised by the existence of small whitish elevations on the conjunctiva, most commonly near the margin of the cornea; each little elevation has a wisp of blood-vessels leading to it if near the corneal margin, and is surrounded by a zone of vascularity if situated in any other part of the conjunctiva. There is some watering of the eye and slight mucous discharge. Patients are frequently met with who suffer from repeated attacks of phlyctenular ophthalmia. Treatment.—In treating phlyctenular ophthalmia our object is to set up a certain amount of irritation of the conjunctiva, by which the phlyctenulfB will be destroyed. This can be attained by dusting calomel into the eye daily, or by ordering a small quantity of an omt-