HYDROPHOBIA. 7-1 ■ I Final symptoms. Cause of death. Duration of the disease. Condition of wound. Diagnosis. Marochetti’s views. become fixed, features contracted, and his countenance expressive of the deepest anxiety, his limbs shake and the whole body shivers. The paroxysm lasts a few seconds, then subsides, but only to be renewed on the slighest breath of air touching his body, for hyperasthesia is one of the most marked symptoms of the affection. During the calm, nausea or even vomiting may appear, and priapism is often a most distressing symptom. Sudden terror of an unknown kind haunts the mind, and imaginary calling of fiends often exists. Dr. Bergerons records a case in which the patient heard the ringing of bells, and saw mice run about over his bed. In the third and last stage the longing for drink becomes intense, with an iiicreaiug inability to take it; the voice becomes hoarse and the mouth full of a frothy fluid. The patient tries to get rid of this by spitting, and then becomes frightened at its results. In some cases he fears that by contact this fluid may propagate the disease. Convulsive seizures increase in frequency and intensity, the spasm of the respira- tory muscles threatening life; at last a fatal spasm takes place, and death by asphyxia ensues. In the dog, death results from paralysis, in man, generally, from asphyxia ; in exceptional cases it is due to exhaustion. This painful affection rarely lasts longer than four days, though it has been fatal in sixteen hours, and has lasted as long as two or three weeks. Thamhayn shows that 56 out of 202 cases died within forty-two hours, 73 in forty-eight hours, 38 between the second and third days, 19 between the third and fourth days, 7 in five, 5 in six, and 4 in seven days. The seat of wound or cicatrix rarely shows anything unusual. In three or four cases out of a hundred it may be slightly painful, irri- table, or inflamed, or the seat of a neuralgic pain, the pain being a kind of “ aura,” as in epilepsy ; in some instances it is very severe. Diagnosis.—Taken as a whole, there is no disease like hydrophobia. In a certain sense it resembles tetanus, yet the two, in their general features, are unlike. They may, however, occur together, and so good an observer as Dr. J. W. Ogle has published a case of combined tetanus and hydrophobia in the ‘ British and Foreign Medico-Chir. Review,’ 1868. What Trousseau has called nervous hydrophobia, true dysphagia, brought on by a dread of rabies, may, however, be mistaken for it; “ but the sudden invasion of this complaint, generally coming on through the person recalling to mind or hearing the relation of a case of true hydrophobia, and the duration of the dysphagia over the period of four days are amply sufficient to characterise the complaint, and to enable the practitioner to persuade the patient that he is suffering from mere nervous symptoms, which will vanish as soon as he ceases to fear. Besides, in nervous hydrophobia there is dysphagia only, but no general convulsions, the spasm affecting the pharynx alone, while the breathing goes on with regularity.” In the very early period of the disease, during its incubation, Drs. Marochetti, Magistel, Xanthos, and others, have called attention to the presence of pustules or vesicles near the fraBiium of the tongue, known in Greece as lyssi, and they assert, that if these lyssi are cauterised, all manifestations of disease can be prevented, bhould these obserx'a- tions be confirmed a valuable means of diagnosis as well as of treatment