201 INJURIES OF THE CRANIUM. liable to occur, accompauied by a low kind of phlebitis of the cerebral sinuses and pyaemia. The symptoms which indicate either of these two conditions generally Sjmptoma. appear two or three weeks after the accident, and vary in intensity according to the action. In acute disease there is more constitutional disturbance and headache, passing on to general brain disturbance, con- vulsions, paralysis, coma, and death. In chronic disease the general symptoms are less severe, and the local milder, hut persistent headache is always present. When the inflammation spreads inwards towards Persistent I the arachnoid and brain, other symptoms show themselves, such as beadache. severe local pains to delirium, twitching of the muscles, convul- sions, paralysis, coma, and death; the rapidity of the progress of the disease governing the symptoms. When marked rigors appear, suppuration is indicated, often of the pyaemic kind; and convulsions of an epileptic nature are frequently found in the chronic form of the disease. Persistent headache after an injury to the head is always a symptom demanding anxious attention, as it too often means pro- gressive mischief within the skull. This subject will however receive further elucidation in the chapter on iutra-cranial inflammation. INJUEIES OF THE CRANIUM. There are some leading practical facts or principles which should be impressed upon the memory of every surgeon who has to deal with injuries to the head. These 1 have formulated as follows, believing it to be well to place them at the beginning of a chapter on such in- juries. 1. A concussed brain should be regarded as a bruised one. 2. Fractures or injuries of the skull are of importance so far as they General are associated with damage to the skull contents; a compoundfrac- Pfcposhioiis. I ture uncomplicated with shaking of, or injury to, the cranial contents, being- less liable to he followed by had results, than a simple fracture associated with brain mischief. 3. The amount of injury to the brain cannot be estimated by the severity of the primary symptoms; a severe injury to the brain being I frequently associated at first with slight symptoms and a slight injury with severe symptoms. ^ 4. The character of the accident and the mode of its production fur- nish the best means for estimating the nature and severity of the injury, aud its probable results; since a fall upon the head from a height or a blow from a heavy weight causes ii general injury of the brain; and a fall upon or a blow from a sharp instrument a local one. 5. A general shaking (concussion) of the brain, whether associated or not with simple or compound fracture, may give rise either to tem- porary suspension of brain functions, ending in recovery; to laceration of the membranes; to a more or less severe bruising of the cortical struc- ture of the brain; or to laceration of its deeper substance; the amount of hajmorrhage complicating the case depending upon the size, number, and healthiness of the ruptured vessels. Thus a general shaking or I concussion in a healthy brain may only produce a temporary suspension of cerebral functions, when the same injury in an unhealthy or aged one, in which diseased vessels ramify, may be follow-ed by a fatal hsemorrhage or apoplexy.