BURNS AND SCALDS. 151 tions of their surfaces are sure to die, hence healing hy granulation is to he expected. They do not bleed as do the incised. Nevertheless, they are to he treated with care, and as if they are sure to uuite partially if not wholly. After their surfaces have been cleansed and freed from blood and dirt their edges may in many cases be brought together, sometimes by sutures, in others by strapping, care being always taken that the whole of the wound is not covered in, and that a free orifice is left for discharge. The surface of the wound may he covered with oiled or wet lint, and the parts should he well raised and kept at rest. In skin lacerations of the extremities it is surprising at times to find how well the parts heal under this treatment, and how large portions of integument that have been torn off, when carefully re- adjusted, unite and maintain their vitality. When the parts are so injured that a fear of sloughing from want of arterial supply is felt, the whole should be wTapped up in cotton wool. Water or oil dressing with or without opium, carbolic acid, or other drug, may be applied after the primary dressing has been removed, according to the requirements of the case. Subcutaneous wounds are interesting subjects of study, inasmuch as surgeons are now familiar with the fact that tendons, muscles, and even hones maybe freely divided with a very small cutaneous wound, and good repair follow, without any signs of inflammation, suppuration, or con- stitutional disturbance. When a tissue is divided, and its two divided surfaces are left in contact, they will unite as any other wound; yet when separated, the space between them will be filled in with new material that will organise and assume in time the characters of the divided tissue; at least, such changes occur in tendons. These facts render the subject one of great interest, and should cause the surgeon to look out for opportunities of applying the practice to more extended classes of cases. The treatment of subcutaneous wounds resolves itself into closing the wound with a pad leaving the parts alone, and allowing them to heal, the quiet way in which this takes place contrasting most favor- ably with the repair of open wounds. The non-admission of air (not of “ germs”) being, probably, an explanation of the difl’erence. This subject will be more fully considered in the chapter on The Surgery of Tendons. BURNS AND SCALDS. A burn is caused by the application of concentrated dry heat to the body; a scald, by the application of hot or boiling liquid. As a rule, scalds are less severe accidents than burns, because water being the ordinary fluid through which the scald is produced, is never hotter than 212° Fahrenheit; yet when any other chemical compound is the scalding inedium, the effects are, at least, often as bad as the wmrst burns. The worst local burn I ever saw was when a man put his hooted foot and ankle into a pot of molten lead. The limb came out covered with a boot of metal, and was destroyed even to the bones. Mr. Aston Key amputated the limb at once below the knee, without removinsr the metal. A moderate degree of dry heat applied in the pursuit of a callin? indurates the skin and blunts its sensibility; and an ironworker or a Sub- cutaneous wounds. On bums and scalds.