ACUTE STRANGULATION. 621 In all cases of intestinal obstruction the diagnosis should be made upon the principle of exclusion, the practitioner coming to a conclusion by first running over every possible cause, and eliminating each seriatim, I and subsequently weighing the points in favour of the probable cause. The possibility of the symptoms bemg due to a strangulated or in- i| carcerated external hernia should always be carefully investigated. j Acute Internal Strangulation of the Bowel, 1 whether from an internal hernia, twist (volvulus) or a foetal or ji peritoneal lymph band, may take place at any period of life, and the |j symptoms to which it gives rise are those of an acute strangulated H external hernia, viz. sudden and definite onset of the illness in a healthy Ij subject, severe pai’oxysmal central abdominal pain attended by sickness |j and more or less coUapse; constipation, inability to pass wind down- b wards, and hiccough; occasionally also scanty urine, or even its suppres- y «ion, and visible coils of distended bowel. There will, however, be no abdominal tumour, no tenesmus, and no I hsemorrhage from the bowel. Fio. 336. Case of strangulation of the bowel by lympb-band constricting ileum about three inches from cfficum and a coil of jejunum. Taken from a man, set. 36, who died after bowel obstruction of 16 days’ duration. This case occurred in my father’s practice in 1838, and is recorded in ‘ Trans. Med. Soc. of London,’ 1846. The suggestion was then made of operative interference. When, therefore, a case presents itself with these symptoms there 1 can be no difficulty in coming to a conclusion as to its nature, although 1 it may be difficult, if not impossible, to diagnose the precise cause of the strangulation. If, however, we refer to the table at page 620, some guide will be found, for it will there be seen that out of 33 cases 25 were due to bands, 7 to volvulus, and 1 to internal hernia. Wlien there has been a history of old hernia, the probabilities of the existence of a band are much enhanced, since it is true that with hernia such banda are not uncommon. Duchaussoy, in his paper “ On Inter- '■ nal Strangulation ” (‘ Mem. de 1’Acad, de Med.,’ 1860), gives such cases. Fagge quotes one, and in my own practice three have occurred; one Always look for hernia. Symptoms of acute obstruction. £.xamples.