295 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC EXAMINATION. found necessary, in order to examine the erect image, to place behind the sight hole of the ophthalmoscope a concave lens, which rather more than neutralises the existing ametropia. The examination of the erect image, although requiring considerably more practice than that of the inverted, should never be neglected, as it gives much more satisfactory evidence of minute changes in the fundus ocuH, all the parts being seen highly magnified (about 14i times). It gives, however, a less extensive field of vision, on account of the size Size of of the objects, which only allows small portions of them to be seen through the pupil at one time. The optic disc, retinal vessels, and other parts occupying the fundus, should be examined by looking in different directions through the pupil; the observed eye being kept steadily fixed during the examina- tion upon some distant and suitably situated object. The right eye having been examined, the lamp should be placed on the patient’s left side, and the manoeuvre repeated; the observer using the left hand and left eye, instead of the right hand and right eye. The condition of refraction of the eye can be diagnosed by the direct method of examination. {See p. 302.) Indirect ophthalmoscopic examination.—In this method of examina- Inverted tion an inverted aerial image of the fundus oculi is formed by the interposition of a biconvex lens between the observer and observed eye. {See Pig. 90.) Fio. 90. From Carter’s translation of ‘ Zander on the Ophthalmoscope.’ A Observer’s norHon''7 «<•<>»'•« lens! a Some the mUror audWeonvei lens “ The position of the patient and observer should be the same as for Method of the direct examination; the same lamp also can be used, but should be '^^‘‘“linatioi placed rather further back and kept on the patient’s left side durine the examination of either eye. The ophthalmoscope should be held in the same manner and the light reflected through the pupil as detailed a.iove; but the red reflection having been obtained, the observer must not approach the eye, but remain at a distance of about eighteen inches The patient should be directed to look at some distant object so situated that the a.xis of the observed eye is turned somewhat inwards • this brings the optic disc (which lies somewhat to the inner side of the The biconvex lens should then be held in front of the observed eve at a distance about equal to its owm focal length from the corned and steadied by the observer resting his ring and little fino-ers on the