OPERATIONS ON THE CORNEA. 357 The eye should he hound up with wet lint and a haudage. The I sutures will probably require removal in about four or five days, but I may be left longer, if they cause no irritation. Divergent strabismus is met with in cases of paralysis of the third Other causes I nerve, and may also occur in non-hypermetropic eyes if the sight of one has become much impaired, and binocular vision no longer possible. In the former of these cases no operation is advisable; in the latter no improvement of sight is to be expected from readjustment, but the operation may be performed simply to remedy disfigurement. I THE COENEA. ■ The affections of the cornea which require an operation upon the Affections of structure itself are six :—1. Sloughing ulcer. 2. Conical coruea. 3. requirinir I Corneal opacity. 4. Staphyloma. 5. Lodgment of foreign bodies, operation. 6. New growths. Paracentesis, or tapping the cornea.—This operation is sometimes Paracentesis, performed in cases of sloughing ulcer, or suppuration, threatening per- I foratiou; by the timely evacuation of the contents of the aqueous , chamber a large rupture of the corneal tissue, with its accompanying eviD, may in many cases be avoided. Tapping the coruea may be done thus :—The patient being in the usual position (Fig. 94, p. 340), the operator should stand behind and fix the lids open by a wire speculum or by the fingers. A broad needle should then be passed through the cornea at some convenient part of its mar- gin ; when the point of the needle has fairly entered the anterior a chamber, its handle should be rotated, so as to bring the breadth of the 1 blade across the incision and thus open it; as soon as the contents I of the anterior chamber have flowed out, the needle should be with- \ drawn, a drop of atropine solution placed between the lids, and the t eye bound up in the usual manner. 1 Iridectomy, however, is to be preferred to paracentesis, ai Conical cornea (“ Staphyloma corniaa pellucidum”), as the name im- Conical ,1 plies, signifies an alteration in the curvature of the cornea, of such a c rncu. ti nature that it assumes the form of a cone. The origin of the affection > cannot clearly he traced. f The most prominent symptom is gradually increasing myopia, which ' j cannot be remedied by concave lenses. On looking at the cornea in 5 profile, its conical fonn is very evident. On examination with the ophthalmoscope by the direct method the Oplithal- ) apex of the cone, which may, however, be the seat of some opacity, niosci pic M appears brightly illuminated; around this bright portion is a dark “PP^^^raine. ring corresponding to the sides of the cone, this being again succeeded :ti by an area giving a bright reflection, and corre.spondiug to a portion )t ol the cornea which retains more or less its natural curvature. ,d Objects occupying the fuuclus of the eye are seen through the ape.x and sides of the cone near its base, in an inverted position, as in fj myopia, whilst we obtain a more or less distinct erect image of the 4 same parts through the portion of cornea which still retains its nor- 1 mal curvature. The retinal vessels appear to have a whirl-like motion * as we change our point of view from side to side. The appearance is 4 quite chai’acteristic, and once seen is not likely to be forgotten. Tkeatmknt.—Conical cornea can only be remedied by operative Treatment. Binterference; two methods of operating are practised, the object of i