204 FEACTUEES OP THE SKULL. Fractured base, &c. The result of direet violence. Le Gros Clark’s explanation. Fractures of the base of the skull, or vault and base combined—for these conditions ought to be considered together—are inv.ariably severe injuries. They are generally, e.xcept when produced by a crushing of the head, caused by a diffused force, such as that occasioned by a fall from a height upon the vertex, or by a heavy blow. “ When the former the plunge of the body is suddenly arrested by the vertex coming in contact with the ground, and the entire superincumbent weight, with the superadded momentum acquired by the velocity of the fall, is concentrated around the condyles of the occipital bone, and the central compartment of the base of the skull is thus broken across.” (Fig. 66.) The fracture is the result of direct violence, and not of so- called contre-coup. “ Thus, if the injury be inflicted by the fall of a hard and heavy body on the vertex, this part would be fractured j and if the weight were not very great, the mischief might end there, as the resistance offered by the head may so far exhaust the momentum of the falling body that the force would not be transmitted in sufficient amount to cause frac- ture of the base. But if the weight and momentum of the falling body were in excess of the expenditure of force in causing fracture of the vertex, the impulse would drive the head down upon the summit of the spinal column, and fracture of the base would result; in that case, viewed mechanically, the lower fracture would be successive to the upper. But if the falling weight which struck the vertex were of a yielding material, fracture, if any, would be in the base, and not of the vertex, because the vis inertia of the skull would be overcome, and it would be driven down upon the spine, without the application of Fig. 66. circumscribed force to the vault. The same reasoning applies when fracture of either the vault or base, or of both together, is the effect of a fall on the vertex; or this result may be varied by the blow beino- received on the forehead or occiput; the anterior or posterior divisions being thin, and severally more obnoxious to fracture” (F. Le Gros Clark).