MOETIPICATION. 40 Rule for guidance. Treatment of spreading gangrene. Local and general measures. Treatment of anjemic gangrene. In senile gangrene. When the gangrene originates from a local cause, amputation is clearly the best practice; but when from a constitutional, it had better not be entertained till the action has ceased and a limit to the disease been formed. In Military Surgery there may be many reasons why this practice cannot be observed, for all conservative surgery, or treat- ment based on expectancy, has to be sacrificed to the exigencies of the moment. • Sir W. Pergusson was clearly led to this opinion on account of the absence of success he had met with in adopting the more usual prac- tice, viz. amputation; for when he writes, “ I might, however, possibly in future resort to a similar practice, but should feel greatly inclined to wait for a line of demarcation,” it clearly must be accepted as being against amputation in spreading gangrene. How then, it may be asked, is spreading gangrene to be treated ? I reply, by tonics and local treatment based on general principles; by maintaining the part as free as possible from all foetid discharges: by local cleanliness and the use of antiseptic applications; but chiefiy by using all means at our disposal to give free vent to foetid discharges and to relieve tension, employing incisions when necessary to secure these ends. Under this practice, when nature is strong enough to check the progress of the disease, a limit to its extent will be formed, and the local affection will be amenable to treatment; but when no limit takes place, death will ensue, which amputation would not have arrested. When amputation is deemed necessary, on the arrest of the action the limb should be removed as close as possible above the diseased part. There exists no necessity to sacrifice any tissue, and much less a joint, to make an amputation neat. The only point for considera- tion is, that the diseased tissues should be avoided, but beyond these no healthy structures should be sacrificed. In the treatment of gangrene due to arterial obstmetion, the objects of the surgeon should be to prevent its extension, and to assist, when called upon, the separation of the parts. To carry out the first of these the mortified parts may be wrapped in some lint dipped in oil, with or without carbolic acid, as indicated by foetor; and the whole extremity should be raised to encourage the venous circulation, and surrounded with cotton wool to maintain its warmth. Abundance of bland nutritious food should be given, aided with stimulants and tonics to assist digestion ; the circulation, too, should be sustained, though anything like over-stimulating is reprehensible. Opium also may be given to allay pain, the patient being kept gently under its influence. Where small parts only are implicated, their separation may be left to nature; but where hands or feet are involved in the gangrene, the surgeon should assist nature’s processes by ampu- tation above or about the line of demarcation, as soon as indicated. In “senile gangrene” the interference should be of the mildest kind, but when a limb dies from embolic plugging, occlusion of an artery, or from the effects of ergot of rye, amputation may be performed as soon as the line of demarcation has been indicated, that is, provided the general condition of the patient be such as not to forbid it. Where “ sphacelus ” takes place after the application of a ligature to