AFFECTIONS OF THE TONSILS, ETC. 534 Tonsillitis. Treatment tonsillitis. Chronic enlargement of tonsils. Symptoms caused by enlarged tonsils. Treatment medical. Tonsillitis. As an acute affection this is known as quinsy and is characterised by the rapid swelling of the part, acute pain, foul tongue, and fever. Within three days, or longer, suppuration may appear, and, when suffo- cative symptoms make their appearance, the surgeon’s interference may be demanded. At times, life may be sacrificed by the want of surgical attention. Some years ago, a case came before my notice, where a child, two years of age, was suffocated from the bursting of a tonsiUitic abscess. Great redness and rapid swelling of the organs are the chief local symptoms. ? Teeatment.—Fomentations externally, the inhalation of hot steam, and saline purgatives, are essential points of practice. As to drugs, none seem to have so powerful an influence over the disease as guai- acum, an ounce of the mixture with some compound spirits of am- monia being the best form, and when this is employed early, suppura- tion rarely appears. When an abscess has formed, the sooner it is opened the better. The best mode of doing this is to cover a straight bistoury to within an inch of its point with lint, and having depressed the tongue with the finger, to introduce it into the swollen tissue, making a free incision; care being taken not to direct the point of the knife outwards, but directly backwards. Should pus appear behind the pharynx, it must be let out. Tonics, such as quinine or iron, should then be given, with good food; a speedy convalescence as a rule ensues. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils. This is frequently met with in feeble children as well as in adults living in marshy and damp localities. It is often a sequel of the more acute inflammation, but as often as not, it appears without any such cause. There is reason too to believe that some of the cases of so-called chronic enlargement of the tonsils are due to new adenoid tonsillitic growths. On two occasions when removing these enlarged organs, I have turned out distinct tumours the size of nuts em- bedded in and surrounded by tonsillitic tissue which were distinctly glandular, and, under the microscope, could not be distinguished from tonsil tissue. In both cases the enlargement was unilateral. Bilateral increase is probably always due to hypertrophy or chronic inflammatory enlargement. This enlargement gives rise to a peculiar nasal twang in speaking and to a most distressing snoring, the patient as a rule having a half- opened mouth night and day. It is commonly associated with irritable mucous membranes generally. I have seen it so troublesome in a child three and a half years old as to prevent the deglutition of solid food, the patient having lived for six mouths on liquid nourishment. Tonic treatment is essential in all these cases ; so is a simple nutritious diet. A mixture of bark and soda at first is the best to soothe and give tone to the digestive apparatus, cod-liver oil, quinine and iron, being subse- quently prescribed. When the organs are congested from inflammation, the glycerine of tannin is a good application, and, when simply en- larged, a mixture of glycerine and tincture of the perchloride of iron, in equal parts, or Liq. lodi, should be used. It is wise also to give the patient some solid iodine in a perforated box to stand on a shelf in the day as well as in the sleeping room; the gradual evaporation