FOREIGN BODIES IN STOMACH, ETC. 614 Success of operation. When frecal abscess formed. When bowel ulcerated into bladder. Colotoniy as treatment. Foreign bodies in the stomach and intestines. May be ejected by vomiting. The success of the operation has also been good; inasmuch as out of forty-one operations recorded by Dupuytren, twenty-nine recovered, nine were relieved, and three died. In this country, the operation has been little practised. Dr. Buchanan of Glasgow, however, has recorded a successful case. (‘ Edin. Med. Jour., 1869.) When A fmeal abscess has formed in the abdominal walls, the sooner it is opened the better, and, when opened, the incision should be free. In abscesses connected with the emeum or its appendage, this rule is important, and, if acted upon good results may be anticipated. For intestinal fistula opening directly into the vagina little c^n be done surgically beyond attending to the general condition of the patient, giving nutritious food, though not such as is likely to distend the bowel, and observing perfect cleanliness of the passage. The external opening should be enlarged, however, if anything like retained pus exist. Under these circumstances, a natural recovery may take place. In recto-vaginal fistula, plastic operations are most successful. When the bowel has ulcerated into the bladder, natural processes appear to be rarely capable of effecting a cure, and, under such circum- stances, to save the patient from the miseries caused by the passage of solid faces into the bladder, the operation of colotomy may be enter- tained. I have performed this operation on four occasions under these circumstances with success, the operation in all giving great relief. One of my patients is now (1878) alive, free from all pain, the operation having been performed on July 5th, 1870 (‘Clin. Soc.,’1872). In another case operated upon in August 16th, 1869, the gentleman lived to March, 1875, and died from heart disease at the age of 70. The third died from some kidney affection some months after the operation (‘Med. Chir. Rev.,’ 1869). The fourth died some weeks after, from the cancerous affection for which the ojieration was demanded, but free from all pain. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach and Intestines. Foreign bodies are often taken into the stomach from accident and design, and the records of cases prove that from the absence or mildness of symptoms, no surgeon should pronounce against the possibility of their introduction. They are passed as often as not per anum without giving rise to very distressing symptoms; although when retained they cause nothing but evil. Smooth hard bodies such as coins and stones, as a rule, pass readily without giving rise to any or other than slight colicky symptoms, but sharp and pointed bodies, such as bones, pins, knives, &c., give rise to such .as vary according to the position of the intestines at which they become impacted. A foreign body taken into the stomach may be ejected by vomiting, discharged externally through the abdominal parietes, retained in the stomach, or passed onwards. In Fig. 255 is illustrated a piece of iron Fjo. 255. Piece of iron wire discharged from abscess in abdominal walls after having been swallowed. Natural size.