UIiCEES OF THE CORNEA. 319 to the size of the perforation) will take place. If the opening be large the lens or some of the vitreous may escape. _ _ In the greater number of cases of perforation of tbe cornea the iris Anterior pushes forward, fills the opening, and becomes adherent to its margins, synechia, forming an “anterior synecliia,” but a considerable prolapse may take ptace, forming a projection or bulge from the surface of the staphyloma. cornea—“staphyloma.” , , /> Marginal or crescentic ulcer (ulcus cornim serpens) is a somewhat peculiar form of corneal ulceration; it is met with in persons of middle age, is very intractable, and very liable to recur or relapse. _ This form of ulceration is accompanied by very severe pain, great intolerance of light, and very profuse lachrymation. On examination a crescentic patch of ulceration is found skirting generally the upper margin of the cornea; the ulcer is deep, its margin clean cut, and its surface glassy looking. The ulceration spreads rapidly up to a certain point—remains sta- tionary for a time, and then commences to heal slowly, the healing process being frequently interrupted by relapses. The ulcerative process may involve both the upper and lower seg- ments of the cornea, but never passes up to its centre. Treatment.—The treatment of ulcers of the cornea is similar to Treatment, that of corneitis, but in all cases it is better to keep the eye carefully bandaged. Iridectomy should be performed in any case should per- foration be imminent (see p. 359). Opacities of the cornea are the result of inflammation, ulceration, or Opacities of injury. , . _ They are met with of all densities and sizes; thin cloudy opacities are known as “ nebulrn,” dense white ones as “ leucomata.” A dense Nebnlm. white opacity, involving the whole cornea, is called a “total leu- coma an opacity of the same description occupying a part only, a “ partial leucoma.” Should a corneal opacity have been caused by a LeuconiK. perforating ulcer or wound of the cornea, an “ anterior synechia” will probably be found associated with it. False pterigium.—Fleshg opacities are sometimes met with near the False margin of the cornea, and continuous with the conjunctiva. They pterigium. arc composed of granulation tissue, and are frequently tbe result of burns. Treatment.—Corneal opacities have always a tendency to disappear. Treatment, especially in children. Their removal may be aided by tbe use of slightly irritating applications, which set up a certain amount of in- creased vascularity, and thus aid absorption. The remedies generally employed are drops of sulphate of copper, iodide of potassium, or opium; turpentine, pure, or mixed in various proportions with olive oil; calomel powder, or the yellow oxide of mercury ointment. Any of these may be used for some considerable time. Should no improvement have taken place at the end of two or three months, and the opacity be so situated ns to interfere with vision, an artificial pupil must be made, and if the opacity be disfiguring it should be tinted (see pp. 362, 358). The fleshy opacities may be removed by operation, but are very liable to reappear in their former site.' Injuries.—Abrasions of the cornea may be caused by scratches from thorns, ends of straw, finger nails, &c. They give rise to severe pain, much intolerance of light, and watering of tbe eye.