375 ABSCISSION. 1 il i * s, « i i i !l 1 n t i fir 9 r I bismus hook, take up the four recti muscles, one after the other, and Division divide them with the scissors, either the external or internal rectus Fig. 106. Extirpation scissors. Extirpation scissors. being cut at a little distance from the globe, so as to afford a hold for the forceps in the subsequent steps of the operation, and the other three muscles as close to it as possible. The muscles having been divided, the hook should be made to sweep round the globe, so as to be sure that nothing is left uncut. By pressing the speculum backwards the eyeball will become dislocated in front of the lids, and then being steadied by holding the piece of muscle purposely left, with the forceps, the scissors should be passed behind it until their points are found to be in contact with the optic nerve, then slightly withdrawn, opened widely, pressed forwards again, and the nerve Division of divided by a single cut. optic nerve. As soon as the nerve has been cut through, the eyeball will be I almost free, being held only by the oblique muscles, which should be divided close to the sclerotic. Should there be free hmmorrhage the i speculum may be left between the lids, a piece of sponge pressed firmly into the orbit, and secured by a turn of bandage; when all bleeding j. has ceased'the sponge should be removed with the speculum, and two small pads of wet lint and a bandage applied. Should the haemorrhage be but slight two or three small pads of wet lint must be laid over the closed lids, and secured by a bandage in the same manner as in other operations on the eye. In about a month or six weeks an artificial eye Artificial eye. may be ordered. ABSCISSION. Abscission is the removal of that portion of the eyeball (including the ciliary region) situated in front of the attachments of the. recti muscles, these being left intact. The object of this operation is to leave a movable stump, on wdiich an artificial eye can rest and be moved in harmony with the movements of the sound one. Abscission is indicated in staphyloma occupying the whole or greater Cases to part of the former situation of the cornea, the remainder of the globe which it is retaining its normal curvature. applicable. The operation should be thus performed (for position of patient and The opera- operator see Fig. 94, p. 340) :—The instruments required are a wire speculum, toothed forceps, strabismus scissors, a triangular cataract knife, a curved needle and silk. The patient being thoroughly under the influence of an ancesthetic, the wire speculum should be placed