DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. 550 I found this to occur in one after the division of the periosteum with the knife. When the tumour is so large as to be wedged in and prevent this mode of dislocation, the best plan is to re-apply the saw and cut off the tumour as liigh as may be, and subsequently, to remove the re- Wben central mainmg portion of jaw. When the central portion of the lower jaw is removed. ’’f ^i^oved, there is danger of the tongue falling back, and causing suffoca- tion; to prevent this a ligature may be passed through the tip of the tongue and held during the operation and on the completion of the opera- tion it should be fastened to the wound. The ligature should be removed on the second or third day. After the operation, all arterial bleeding should be stopped, a stream of cold water over the parts aiTesting any oozing, while the edges of the wound are to be brought together by interrupted sutures. Convales- cence is generally rapid and recovery complete; the deformity follow- ing being so slight as not to be observed in many cases, the interval being filled with dense fibre tissue. Bone is never re-produced, but the tissues soon become firm enough to bear the support of artificial teeth. The half-sitting position is probably the best in all these operations on the jaws; and chloroform may be given without fear. For more details connected with this subject the student may refer to Heath’s admirable ‘ Monograph on the JawsFergusson’s ‘ SurgeryListon’s paper, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xx, and his ‘ Pract. Surgery.’ Diaeaseofthe Disease of the temporo-maxillary articulation is rarely met with, iiriiculatioii. jj^gre rarely indeed than disease of any joint in the body. I have seen only two examples of it, one in a woman, set. 34, who had had it for nine years, suppuration having existed for six; several sinuses leading down to the joint were present, and the jaw was nearly fixed ; dead bone ap- peared to be present; the patient refused to have any surgical interfer- ence. The second case was a girl aet. 18, in whom both sides of the lower jaw were completely anchylosed. In Guy’s Hosp. Museum there is also a splendid specimen, No. 1070, of complete synostosis of the articulation. The cases already quoted of necrosis of the condyloid process of the lower jaw, and recovery with a sound joint, may here be referred to. Closure of Closure of the jaws may be caused by some spasmodic condition of jaws. the muscles of the jaw secondary to disease of the teeth, or the cuttmg Causes. of the wisdom teeth. In the latter the mouth must be forced open under chloroform, by means of the screw gag or wedges, and the tooth removed, or, what is better, room made for it to come forward by the extraction of a neighbouring molar. It may likewise be caused as indicated above by anchylosis, or by the conti’action of cicatrices either within or without the mouth. In February, 1878, I operated upon a woman, set. 43, who for 37 years had had her jaws locked from adhe- sions between the cheeks and gums. She had lived on liquid food for the whole of this period. I divided the cicatrices and opened the jaws with a promise of a good recovery. The condition had followed scarlet fever. Dr. S. Gross, in his ‘ System of Surgery,’ informs us that the latter causes are the most common, and he attributes the majority to the evil practice of giving calomel to salivation. In rarer cases the immobility is occasioned by an osseous bridge extending from tbe lower jaw to the temporal bone, this condition being generally associated with chronic articular arthritis. “ However induced,” writes Gross, “the effect is not only inconvenient, seriously interfering with mastication and articula- tion, but it is often followed, especially if it occur early m life, by a