5 INTEODtrCTION. and mottled complexion of the cachexia dependent upon the united effects of mercury and syphilis—the pallid face of hiemorrhage—the waxen hue of amenorrhoea—the dingy whiteness of malignant disease —the vacant lassitude of fever—the purple cheek of pneumonia—the bright flush of phthisis—the contracted features and corrugated brow of tetanus; all which shades of countenance, with many more that might be enumerated, are distinctly recognised by the experienced eye.” (Dr. Bright, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1836.) Yet all this, and something more, is to be acquired by means of trained observation, and no labour on the student’s part should be considered too great for its attainment. The subject of Diathesis claims the attention of the surgeon, on ac- Ou Diathesis, count of its undoubted bearing on practical surgery. In the strumous, scrofulous, and tuberculous diathesis, all of which appear to he closely allied, there is, no doubt, a tendency to glandular enlargement, the formation of caseous deposits and a low kind of inflammatory action, whether in the bones, joints, skin, or lungs ; hut beyond these clinical facts we know nothing. Disease in subjects who have these diatheses is precisely identical in its essential nature with the same disease as found in others who have them not. It may be modified in its course by the diathesis, hut it is the same. These names have, likewise, no special signification when applied to local affections. It is important to hear this fact in mind, for there can be little doubt that the expressions “strumous disease” and “scrofu- lous disease” have had an injurious influence on the practice of sur- gery. They have too often led the surgeon (and misled the public) to regard a local affection in a strumous or scrofulous subject as incurable, as depending on some constitutional condition, and not on a local cause. In disease of the joints this error has been much felt, and should he rejected. The modern investigations of Drs. Sanderson and Fox in our own Scrofulous, country, and Dr. VValdenburg* abroad, tend, however, to show that the scrofulous diathesis, in which there is a tendency to inflammation of a low type, gives rise, under some circumstances, to tuberculosis, and that local inflammatory affections of a chronic nature are specially prone to be followed by tuberculous disease. The grey granulations or tubercles ai'e apparently derived from some pre-existing inflammation ; from the absorption into the blood of the caseous or cheesy deposits which are sup- posed to be the residue of an antecedent inflammatory action—whether in the bones, joints, glands, or lungs—and these are subsequently dis- seminated in the form of miliary tubercle. Niemeyer, indeed, maintains that “ the formation of tubercle never takes place unless preceded by pneuinonia, terminating in caseous infiltration of the pulmonary tissue.” Connection To the surgeon this aspect of the case is of immense importance, for it is between local clearly his duty, under these circumstances, to hasten the recovery of aysease^aud local suppurative disease as much as possible, and where this cannot be tubercle, carried out, to remove it. For let it he once shown that local disease has a direct influence in producing constitutional dyscrasia—call it by what name we will—and the necessity of dealing actively with chronic local affections becomes a duty. I have occasionally acted upon this principle with the best results, and in more than one case in which there was progressive lung mischief associated with a disorganised knee have found the lung affection speedily subside after amputation. It ‘ Die Tubcrculose und Scrofulose,’ von Dr. L. Waldcnburg. Berlin. 1869.