171 CHAKBON. M. Gosselin strongly advocates the plan of making deep punctures into the carbuncle and evacuating them by means of compression. The best thing, writes Paget (‘ Lancet,’ 1869), you can do, if the Pazet’s mode carbuncle is small, is to cover it with emplastrum plumbi spread on treatment, leather, with a hole in the middle through which the pus can exude and the slough can come away. When the carbuncle is large he ad- vises the common resin cerate, and over it a linseed-and-bread poultice; perfect cleanliness is to be observed during the sloughing process. Facial carbuncle. This has been often miscalled “ malignant pustule.” It was pro- On facial bably first described by a clever young surgeon, Harvey Ludlow (‘Med, carbuncle. Times and Gaz.,’ Sept., 1852). It is generally found on the lip, the upper one being the more commonly involved, as an oedematous in- flammatory swelling of the part, involving the nose and cheek, often preceded by some pustule or vesicle, and generally accompanied by them. It is almost always associated with severe pain. It ends, as do most cases of carbuncle, with sloughing, and at times the w'hole substance of the lip or cheek gives way. It is associated, like car- buncle, with great constitutional depression, and its special danger is thrombosis and phlebitis of the cerebral sinuses; the inflammation of the veins extends from the affected parts through the ophthalmic veins to the cavernous sinus. I have seen six cases of this affection, four of the upper and two of the lower lip, and all recovered. In only one did the disease extend beyond the lip, while in all, the disease, as far as local treatment was concerned, was left to natural processes, clean- Treatment, liness and fomentations being alone employed. Tonics and good diet were given, and quinine with iron, in full doses, appeared the best. Paget advises quinine in suiBcient doses to produce symptoms of cinchonism. M. Reverdiu, interne des hdpitaux, gives a very elaborate essay on Reverdin’s this subject in the ‘ Archives Generates de Medecine,’ 1870. At p. 162 conclusions, of the August number he thus sums up his conclusions: 1. Anthrax and furuncle of the face present a special gravity. 2. This gravity is due to the ready complication with phlebitis. 3. The facial phlebitis is attended with death, either hy extension to the sinuses of the dura mater, or by becoming the source of purulent infection. 4. Of anthrax of the face, that of the lips is more frequently com- plicated with phlebitis than the others. This may be explained by the peculiar texture of the lips. 5. Anthrax of the lips has nothing in common with malignant pustule. 6. The involving of the orbit in the phlebitis, as demonstrated by exophthalmia, shows almost for certain the implication of the sinus. 7. Incision, speedily and extensively performed, seems to be the best means of preventing and sometimes of arresting the phlebitic com- plications. Malignant pustule or charbon. This is a disease of which I have had but slight personal ex- On malignant perience. M. Bourgeois, iu a work entitled ‘La Pustule maligue et (Edfeme malin’ (Paris, 1861), has given a full description of it. He tells us it is derived from an animal poison, and that it is communi- cated to man by direct contact with the body of a diseased animal, or with any material that has been in contact with the disease. It is