633 COLOTOMY. and vomiting appeai’ed. When I saw him, the constipation was in- superable, vomiting incessant, and the abdomen much distended. No obstruction could be felt in the rectum; both loins were very resonant, and it was believed that the obstruction was about the c*cum. I con- sequently performed Nekton’s operation of enterotomy as described, on July 7th. The operation gave immediate relief, and everything went on well subsequently, the temperature never rising beyond 99°. He left the hospital six weeks afterwards, the whole of his motions passing through the artificial anus, and not a trace of wind or motion passing per anum. On his return home, for want of good nursing, a bed sore appeared, and he died in November, 1877. After death it was found, that the lower part of the ileum had been opened three inches from the caecum, and that the seat of stricture was in the ascending colon just above the cfficum. It was cicatricial, and evidently due to the contraction of some old ulcer; the viscera were healthy. 1 subsequently learnt from Dr. Cortis that this patient had hurt himself in the right side of his abdo- men three years before his illness in a fall over a case of goods, that the accident was followed by sickness and pain, with nausea and occa- sional vomiting. It is quite possible that the stricture was the result of this injury. This patient, as well as the other, complained sadly of the annoyance caused by the constant flow of fseces from the inguinal anus, no mechanical appliance having the power of controlling it. Colotomy. For irremediable stricture or mechanical obstruction of the rectum On the from any cause, Callisen’s operation of opening the colon in the left operation of loin should always be followed; but, when the seat of obstruction is higher chan the rectum and if there be a doubt whether it is in the sigmoid fiexure or transverse colon Amussat's operation in the right loin should be performed. Calliseu first suggested colotomy in 1796, and applied it to the descending colon, but Amussat revived the opera- tion and extended it to the ascending colon in 1839. The colon in this position lies behind the peritoneum immediately beneath the transversalis fascia. The kidney is in close contact with it above, and in one case on which I operated, the organ was placed so low down as to fill in the space between the rib and pelvis, and had to be pushed upwards to allow the colon to be seen and opened. The operation can he performed as follows, on the left loin : The patient is to be placed on his right side with a pillow beneath Mode of the loin, in order to arch somewhat the left flank, and turned two perlorniance. thirds over on his face; the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle can then be made out, as this muscle is the surgeon’s main guide. Its outer border with the descending colon is to be found half an inch posterior to the centre of the crest of the ileum, the centre being the point midway between the anterior superior and posterior superior spinous processes. Allingham says that in more than fifty dissections he has always found the descending colon to be so situated. He has never known this point to fail him. When difficulties are felt in the operation, he believes they arise from the colon being looked for too far from the spine (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1870), and in that opinion I cordially agree. An incision is then to be made four or five