426 TRANSFUSION. Tranfusion. Roussel’s instrumeut. being the best. Oil of turpentine is likewise a valuable remedy, twenty minim doses being sufficient for an adult. Gallic acid in ten-grain doses, and acetate of lead in one-grain doses, are also beneficial, and all these act upon the blood and dispose it to coagulate. Transfusion. When Dr. Lower, of Oxford, with Sir E. King, in 1665, first prac- tised transfusion, blood was drawn from an artery and conducted direcily by means of a tube into the vein of the patient, the blood being propelled simply by the force of the circulation of the emitter. As time progressed, the inexpediency of opening an artery was felt, and the plan of transmitting blood from vein to vein came into use. In 1785 this plan was also warmly advocated by Dr. Harwood, of Cambridge. With this change of practice, the mode of operating had to be altered, because the force of the venous circulation was found to be insufficient to propel the blood. The indirect or mediate mode of operating conse- quently came into use, the blood of the emitter being received into a vessel and transmitted by a tube or syringe into the vein of the patient. To James Blundell is due undoubtedly the credit of having devised an apparatus by which the operation can be efficiently performed. He called it first an “ impeller,” and when improved, a “ gravitater” (‘ Lancet,’ 1829). Since his time Drs. Aveling, Hewitt,' Braxton Hicks,’ and particularly Roussel, have done much towards rendering the prac- tice more safe and certain. The object of the surgeon in the operation is, to transfuse blood from a healthy into a bloodless patient, and his aim should be to prevent the coagulation of the healthy blood during the operation, as well as to guard against the introduction of air into the veins. This operation should only be undertaken when a trust- worthy apparatus is at hand, and of these Dr. Roussel’s is without doubt the most complete. Aveling’s, however, is excellent. Dr. Roussel’s instrument is made of hardened pure caoutchouc; it is composed of a tube with a Higginson’s syringe large enough to con- tain two and a half drachms of fluid (Fig. 124) (14) in its course. One end of the tube is attached to a rigid cylinder (10), open at each end, and applied over the seat of the vein required to be punctured (3), which has been obstructed by the band (1). The cylinder is fixed in position in being surrounded by a rigid cup which can be exhausted by an elastic pump (9) in connection with it. The exhaustion of this cup not only fixes the apparatus to the arm, but also increases the turgidity of the vein over which it is applied. The cylinder within it (11) is then closed by the introduction at its upper extremity of a lancet (12), the exact depth of which can be regulated (13). Before operating, the air should be driven out of the cylinder and tube by filling them with tepid water (6), in which a little bicarbonate of soda may be dissolved by means of the syringe (9), and the tube (8, and 7), which is attached to the cylinder opposite to the conducting tube (17). When about to operate the lancet (12) is depressed into the vein. To the extremity of the conducting tube a stopcock (17) with two canulm (16 and 18) is attached, the stopcock being inserted to direct the flow of fluid iuto one or other of the canulie. One of these canulffi is introduced into the vein of the recipient (5). The apparatus 1 ' Obatet. Trans.,’ 1865. ’ ‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 18G8.