RETINITIS. 335 in their course, and they may he in parts hidden by the inflammatory exudation. The condition of the arteries is nearly normal, or they may appear too thin. Small hsemorrhages are frequently detected in the course of the distended veins. Haemorrhagic retinitis.—The optic nerve will he found reddened, Ilfenior- somewhat swollen, its outline obliterated, its transparency so much Jgtjaitis. affected that the course of the retinal veins upon its surface and in its substance cannot be traced; the retinal veins are turgid, and tortuous in their course, presenting alternately light and dark portions, according as they lie deeply in the engorged retina or more super- ficially near its inner surface. The retinal arteries, as in the simple form of retinitis, are nearly normal or too thin. The principal characteristic of the disease is the occurrence of exten- Peculiarity sive haemorrhage, most marked around the optic disc, and fading away gradually into the surrounding parts. The blood-extravasations have tions. a peculiar striated appearance, and radiate, spoke-like, from the optic disc as a centre. In some cases the retina immediately surrounding the disc is uniformly soaked with blood, the bright red colour thus produced gradually shading ofl' externally into the spoke-like appear- ance above mentioned. As time goes on the extravasated blood undergoes changes, becoming brown in colour, and eventually partially or entirely absorbed. Retinitis pigmentosa is a peculiar form of degeneration of the Retinitis retina, met with most frequently in the ofl’spriug of blood rela- tions; the sulierers are often deaf and dumb, and may he partially idiotic. The most marked symptoms of the disease are mght blindness and Night gradual narrotoing of the visual field without glaucomatous symptoms, hluulness. The ophthalmoscope reveals the most striking changes; the retina, more especially about its peripheral parts, is dotted more or less thickly w’ith black pigment spots; these spots appear somewhat like a multitude of small black spiders with many legs; they have also been likened to bone-corpuscles. The spots of pigment appear to follow the course of the blood-vessels of the retina, and, as before stated, are collected most thickly in its peripheral parts. The blood-vessels themselves are much diminished in size and visible number, and the optic disc is markedly anaemic. Mbuminnric retinitis is a peculiar form of retinitis met with in Albuminuric Bright’s disease. The changes which take place in the retina are retinitis, inflammation with effusion and haemorrhages, followed by fatty and fibrinous degeneration of its structure, and subsequent atrophy. The ophthalmoscope shows, in the early stages of the disease, retinal ihyperaemia (more especially venous) with increased vascularity and redness of the optic disc. Next the retina becomes cloudy (more espe- cially around the optic disc, the outline of which becomes obscured), and numerous haemorrhages in the form of streaks and spots occur in various parts of its structure. The cloudiness goes on increasing and obscures the smaller vessels; Cbaracter- M later in different parts of the fundus, but mostly in a ring situated at *stic appear- I a little distance from the margin of the disc, appear glistening white ^ spots and patches, which by their coalescence eventually form a broad white baud, which partially or entirely surrounds the now grey opaque