CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION. 625 mechanical rupture of the csecum the direct result of the pressure of Ruptured the fsBcal accumulation acting backwards upon the cmcal cul-de-sac, caecum, my notes describing two cases in wliich the caecum burst; one iu which it was purple in colour, and measured fifteen inches round; and another in which it had sloughed. I have also notes of a case of male child born with an imperforate rectum, who died on the sixth day from ruptured cfflcum. And out of eleven consecutive fatal cases of untreated stricture of the rectum at Guy’s Hospital collected by my dresser, Mr. Russell, death was caused by ruptured caecum in three, by perforation of the sigmoid flexure in two, by peritonitis after punc- ture to relieve flatus in one, and by exhaustion in three. Hence the importance of early relief before these changes have been started. These points have been ably brought out in Coupland and Morris’s paper. To diagnose the true cause of the obstruction is therefore the sur- geon’s next aim, and it would be well if I were able to add that the task is an easy one; hut such is not the case. It is true when the obstruction is in the rectum that a digital examination of the part may And it out; when in the sigmoid flexure that the cautious introduction of the whole hand into the rectum (after the method of Simon, of Heidelberg) may detect it, and that when a tumour is to be felt by palpation to the left of the umbilicus through the abdominal walls the probability is suggested of the disease being in the colon, but without these guides little definite knowledge is to be obtained by either palpation or percussion; by the passage of the long tube or by the amount of fluid that may he injected into the colon. Under these circumstances, therefore, the surgeon is thrown back upon the probabilities of the case as read hy the light of pathological knowledge and it is gratifying to be able to show that these facts speak with no uncertain sound. Indeed, they speak so strongly and decidedly, that the surgeon may rely upon them with confidence, and base his practice upon their indications. The facts are revealed in the table to which I have already drawn attention. There it will be seen that out of the 76 fatal cases of chronic obsti'uction 3 were due to faecal impaction, 3 to the mechani- cal pressure of tumours; 23 to what Dr. Fagge described as “con- traction” caused by the matting together of the intestinal coils from peritoneal or cancerous disease, and 47 to strictures of the bowel. Now, cases of faecal accumulation do not require any lengthened Fcecal treatment in these pages; when they come under the surgeon’s care as accumulation, examples of obstruction they are to be treated by the mechanical removal of the faeces from the rectum by such means as the finger, the lithotomy scoop or the handle of an iron spoon—these measures being aided materially by the free use of grease, oily eneniata and medicines. The fact that faecal accumulation may give rise to the worst symptoms of mechanical obstruction and even to death should always be before the surgeon, and induce him to examine the rectum with care in all probable cases. Obstructions due to the pre.sence of some abdominal tumour, hydatid. Obstruction cancerous, ovarian, or otherwise, are to be diagnosed and dealt with on their own merits, although when it is the lower part of the bowel that is obstructed, right or left lumbar colotomy should not be neglected when other means of relief are not available. I have performed this operation on most occasions from such a cause with gratifying success. VOL. I. 40