36 MORTIFICATION. through the veins, complicated or not, with secondary inflammatory action. This form is called “ static gangrene.” In each and all of these, inflammation plays directly or indirectly, an important part. Tissues suffering from defective nutrition, either as the result of some want of nerve supply or energy, or of extreme debility the conse- quence of severe illness, or other depressing influence, are more prone than others to mortify on slight causes. Moistand dry When mortification takes place in tissues that are filled with blood, gangrene. and more particularly with inflammatory fluids, “ moist, hot, or humid gangrene ” is produced; but when it takes place in parts in which no such stasis exists, and where death of the tissues is the result of a want of arterial supply, “ dry, cold, or chronic gangrene ” is caused. These two forms, however, are in a measure convertible—the rapidity of the process and the amount of inflammatory infiltration influencing the result. Direct traumatic gangrene is well seen in the destruction of skin from the contact of some corrosive acid, such as sulphuric or nitric acid; the black or yellow slough which immediately follows the applica- tion of the caustic testifying to its action. Indirect traumatic gangrene is also well seen in the integument after the application of a blister to a child or feeble patient, the blister being followed by inflammation of the blistered part, and its subsequent death. In bad compound fractures the indirect inflammatory gangrene is often illustrated, the limb swelling rapidly, and the skin assuming a mottled and livid hue; loose blisters or phlycten® of raised cuticle soon forming on the surface, containing more or less blood-stained serum, while the tissues become sooner or later cold and insensible, the temperature of the part often falling rapidly. The fluids from the wound, when any are present, soon become offensive, blood-stained, and mixed with gas—the tissues crepitating, on pressure, from its presence. Line of The gangrene may be limited or it may spread upwards, but when demarcation, the action has attained its limit, the living tissues in contact with the dead become highly vascular, and a defined line, “ the line of demarca- tion,” at length appears. This vascular line goes on to ulceration, and, if left to take its course, to the separation of the whole slough from the living tissues: soft parts, and even bone, may be divided by it, the granulations on the new surface materially assisting the casting off of the slough. The deeper tissues of a limb thus affected, rapidly decompose and give rise to a horrible fcetor; the extent of decom- position will depend much upon the fluids in the part. Should the limb be exposed the integument will soon dry and become black, and gradually wither, while the soft parts beneath will xmdergo decom- position. Rarely This process is rarely attended with haemorrhage, the blood in the attended with vessels coagulating during the sloughing action, and thus obstructing ha-morrhage. them. In exceptional cases, however, sloughing of the vessels ensues— the more rapid the sloughing action, the greater, apparently, being the liability to bleed. Direct traumatic gangrene is also well illustrated in cases of extra- Direct traumatic gangrene. Indireet traumatic gangrene. As seen in compound fractures.