CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE. 264 Brown- S^quiird’s observations on injuries to cord. Cervical. Lumbar. Temperature of paralysed side. Prognosis. Depends on persistence of symptoms. General remarks. Brown-Sequard’s observations and experiments on the decussation of the motor and sensory fibres of the cord, have done much towards the elucidation of these points, and it may now with some confidence be asserted, that when one antero-lateral column of the cord is divided or irreparably injured there must be motor paralysis of the same side of the body below the seat of injury, and loss of sensation upon the opposite side of the body—the motor paralysis being due to the de- struction of the white substance, and the loss of sensation to that of the grey. When any portion of the white substance is left intact, some motion will remain, and, when any part of the grey is uninjured, some sensa- tion. Complete division of the cord is necessarily followed ly complete paralysis and loss of sensation in the parts below, although by what is called reflex action, the muscles of the parts may be made to con- tract on the application of any stimulant, such as tickiing, to the sensory nerves. Pain in the course of a sensory nerve, or in an extremity, is to be taken as representing the irritation of the cord or nerve st its central origin, and, in cases of fracture, as the spot where the bme has been broken. Symmetrical pains mean central mischief, uniateral pains local. A severe blow upon the upper cervical region may prodice according to Erichsen instantaneous death from concussion. Whm the vagxis nerve is affected, a sense of suffocation, with irregular action of the heart, or constant vomiting, may be produced. When t\\Qspinal acces- sory is injured, spasm of the trapezius or sterno-maitoid muscles occur; and irritation of the phrenic nerve causes hiccup, is well as the sensation of an iron band-like constriction round the bod;. When the injury is in the lumbar region the paralysis is always prtial, as the cord terminates at the second lumbar vertebra. The temperature of the paralysed limb is always lowerthan the rest of the body, even when to the patient it may feel hot orburning. The prognosis in any case of concusriou of the spine dejends entirely upon the changes that are produced in the cord by the injury; and these are fairly to be measured by the severity of the s mptoms and their persistency. This latter guide is very reliablv the persis- tency of symptoms being generally indicative of orpnic change. Again, when organic change has taken place there is the greater pro- bability of some secondary inflammatory action in the njured part, and on this the prospects of the case hinge; for in iijuries to the spinal cord or membranes, as in injuries to the brai:, this intra- cephalic or intra-spinal inflammation is the cause of dangr or of death in every case that survives the immediate effects of the acident, while it leaves, even when life is spared, more or less completi paralysis of the parts below the seat of injury. mTRA-SPINAl INFLAMMATION.—SPINAL PARALYIS AFTER CONCUSSION.—RAILWAY CONCUSSION. Intea-spinaIi Inflammation.—“Every injury of thespine should be considered as deserving of minute attention. Inflamtsition of the cord and its membranes may supervene upon very slight ijuries of the