690 ON TEUSSBS. In inguinal liernia. In femoral. On the spring of a truss- The Moc- main lever. Situation of ))ad of truss on rings. Varieties of truss. flat, when of a firmer consistency. It should also be so adapted to its spring as to keep its place under all circumstances. In inguinal hernia it should, moreover, be so fixed to the spring as to exert a pressure at right angles to the plane of the hernial aperture. Thus, in large pendulous bellies, the pressure may be upwards, or in- wards and upwards; but in thin subjects directly backwards. In femoral rupture, the pressure should always be backwards, in order to close the crural ring. Any truss that applies its pressure only in one direction must fail in its purpose in a large number of cases. It is, indeed, in this curve of the spring, or direction in which the pressure of the pad is employed, that the chief difference in the great varieties of trusses is found. Some pads are rigidly attached to the spring that holds them in position, while others are connected by means of movable joints of different construction. Salmon and Ody’s well-known truss has a ball- and-socket joint. The spring of a truss is a matter of importance, although not so much as the pad aud the direction of the line of pressure. Its strength should be carefully regulated according to the requirements of the individual case. It ought to be strong enough to keep the pad in position, and prevent the descent of the hernia under all circumstances, but not so as to cause pain. The French spring consists of a coil like like that of a watch-spring, is always in action, and presses inwards. The German form is more rigid and inelastic, and holds the pad firmly in its place, thereby resisting the protrusion of the hernia under any expulsive effort. The English makers employ a variety of springs. A too rigid one, as the German, is not to be recommended, w'hilst the French is also objectionable, its action being too severe and constant. The best is that which holds the pad in position, keeps it there under all movements, counteracts any expulsive action of the hernia, and causes little if any discomfort. The lighter it is under these cir- cumstances the better, and the closer it is adapted to the body the more comfort it affords. The only truss that has no circular-body spring, and is kept in posi- tion by a band is the Moc-main lever. The pressure is kept up by means of a thigh strap attached to a small spring-lever connected with the pad. Such a truss is doubtless comfortable, as its action is not enough to produce inconvenience, but it is not safe under most circum- stances. In old people where the inguinal rings require only a little support, it may be used; but in the middle-aged, when the hernia has a tendency to come down, it is a dangerous and unreliable instrument. In oblique inguinal hernia the pad of the truss should be placed over the internal ring and canal, and not over the external ring, the object being to give support to the weak internal ring; in direct inguinal it is placed over the external ring. In femoral hernia, when the crural arch is natural and not relaxed, a small pad may be employed over the neck of the sac; but when the arch is relaxed and movable, a large pad, so adjusted as to press upon the ligament itself, is required. After the operation of herniotomy for crural hernia, this fact is worthy of atten- tion; for when a free division of Gimbernat’s ligament has been made, the neck of the sac is always large and the ligaments relaxed. To give a description of every variety of truss is needless. Egg’s truss is in all respects rigid, and keeps its place w'hen once