DENTAL SDRGEET. 558 Implanta- of the tipper, and the third division in the case of the lower teeth) are distributed to the alveole-dental membrane. The teeth are implanted in the alveolar process of the jaw, which is developed with them and is reabsorbed when they are lost. Development. Development.—The twenty developing temporary teeth, enclosed in their respective sacs, are contained in the jaw at the time of birth, as are also germs of the permanent molars and those of the anterior permanent teeth; these latter, receding from their position near the surface of the gums and becoming encapsuled, gradually pass down in the rear of the temporary teeth and remain embedded in the jaw, developing at leisure within their bony crypts until wanted to replace their more fragile predecessors. (See Fig. 239.) Shedding of The following is the normal process attending the eruption of one temporary, of the anterior permanent teeth. The roots of the antecedent tern- permanent porary tooth having been absorbed, its crown is shed, and the new crown taking place simultaneously with the continued elongation and development of its root. Development. The development of a permanent tooth thus occupies many years. Take, for examples, the first permanent molar and central incisor, the teeth which are the first developed of the permanent set. Their pulps commence to take form during foetal life, their calcification commences by birth or in the first months of infancy. Their erup- tion takes place from the sixth to the eighth year, and their root canals with their terminal foramina are not reduced to their ultimate dimensions for two or more years later. The three hard structures which enter into the composition of a tooth have distinct sources of origin. ( Vide Diagram, No. 238.) dentine and (which occupies the space B in the accompanying diagram) is formed crusta ^ centrifugally on the coronal dentine, and through the obliteration of their*distinct its formative organ becomes on the eruption of the tooth incapable of sources of further growth or nutritional change. The dentine is developed from the “ dentinal pulp ” of vascular con- nective tissue (vide Diagram 238, a) by the immediate agency of a superficial layer of cells called odontoblasts. teeth. tooth then gradually uprises from the gum—the protrusion of its Fig. 238. odontome formation. Diagram sliowing the structures involved in dentigerous cyst and A. Dentinal pulp becoming centripetally encased by dentine. Diagram of developing lower molar tooth. B. Space occupied by enamel organ between centrifugally forming enamel and tooth sac. In tliis space duid collects in the formation of a dentigerous cvst. C. C odontome would be formed. Enamel, The enamel developed from the “enamel organ ” of epithelial origin