246 TETANUS. Treatment. Diet. Stimulants. Quinine. Calabar bean. Curara. Ice-bags to spine. Question of amputation. Clarke believes “ that the spasms of tetanus depend on the conjoined operation of two separate causes. First, that they depend on an abnor- mally excitable state of the grey nerve tissue of the cord induced by the hypersemic and morbid state of its blood-vessels, with the exuda- tions and disintegrations resulting therefrom. Secondly, that the spasms depend on the persistent irritation of the peripheral nerves, by which the exalted excitability of the cord is aroused.” Treatment.—Every imaginable form of treatment has been em- ployed in this disease with success, to be discarded in its turn for something new. No settled form of practice can consequently be laid down. Still, much can be done in guiding the patient through this disease; in keeping him alive; and in warding off death. To keep the patient alive the most careful attention to feeding is required; milk and concentrated liquid animal food being the best diet. If these can be taken in sufficient quantities, no other mode of administration is required; but if not, they must be given, as enemata every four or six hours as the case demands. Stimulants must be used cautiously, though when the powers are failing they may be freely given. Upon this principle of practice, quinine has been strongly recom- mended ; it may be given in full doses to an adult, such as five grains every three or four hours, and then increased; or in one large dose such as twenty grains, to be followed by the smaller one. Among specific remedies that have been greatly vaunted, the Calabar bean stands foremost, and may be given in full doses, such as half a grain of the extract every two or three hours. Camphor also recommends itself to our notice in doses of from five to ten grains. The woorara poison has failed in its purpose. The bromide of ammonium or potassium has, however, been administered with advantage. It was hoped that a valuable drug for this disease had been found in chloroform, but experience has not justified the expectation. The hy- drate of chloral has now taken its place and been of some service. Demme has advocated with much success the use of the Curara, eight cases out of twenty-two having recovered under such treatment. In India the Indian hemp has been highly recommended. Nicotine aud tobacco have also been successful. Aconite is another drug that offers some advantages,while opium has an unquestionable influence in allaying pain and mitigating the severity of the spasm. Ice also, applied in bags along the spine, has apparently been of great value in the hands of American surgeons. The administration of remedies by subcutaneous injection, in these cases, promises to be a valuable adjunct to practice enabling us rapidly to introduce into the system drugs that act anta- gonistically to tetanic spasm. The patient should always be kept quiet,warm, and free from draught. He should, moreover, be so watched that in his spasms no injury can be sustained ; attention should be paid to his bladder and bowels, for catheterism is sometimes called for ; and purgatives or enemata to clear out the intestines are beneficial, although violent purgation cannot be advised. With respect to local treatment much may sometimes be done. In severe local injury when the nerves of the part are probably involved, amputation ought certainly to be performed; for a sufficient number