COMPRESSION OP THE BRAIN. 221 When a patient sustains a similar injury, with or without depres- sion of the bone, but followed after a distinct interval of time by paralysis of one side of the body, whether of the injured side or not, it is quite fair to assume that hsemorrhage has taken place inside the skull, and is the cause of the compression. lu both these cases a local injury is followed by local mischief, causing a local paralysis, consequently surgical treatment is of great promise. When a patient receives a general injury to the head—such as com- b. Effect of monly results from a fall upon the head from a height or a diffused general blow from a heavy falling body—and this is followed directly or after of brain**with an interval of time, by symptoms of compression, whether associated or or without not with a fracture, the paralysis is, as a rule, general; and even if fracture, more complete on one side than another, the injury to the brain is, for the most part, too diffused or extensive to admit of surgical relief. The case is clearly of a mixed nature, contusion or laceration of brain- structure being associated with hsemorrhage. When a patient suffering from brain shock with or without a frac- Symptoms of ture, is unconscious, motionless, and perhaps pulseless; has lost control brain injury, over the action of the bowels and the bladder ; and has a feeble respira- tion and paralysed pupils, it is impossible for the surgeon to form any opinion as to the nature of the cerebral injury; because these symptoms may be the result of so-called concussion, from which recovery may take place, and not of severe brain contusion; they may be associated with bruising of the brain and extravasation of blood, not sufficient, perhaps, to cause fatal compression of the brain-structure, but enough to set up cerebral symptoms, which cannot pass away for many months under the most favorable conditions; or they may be accompanied by severe brain laceration or extravasation of blood upon or into its structure, which will prove fatal by coma. The position of the extra- Diagnosis vasation has no influence on the symptoms, although it would appear between that death is very rapid when it takes place into the ventricles, 'oacassion The primary symptoms of severe concussion and of general compres- compression, sion are identical, and are often not to be distinguished; both may be the result of the same kind of accident. “ But,” says Mr. Hewett, “ there is this marked difference: in concussion the effects are instan- taneous, and in compression from extravasated blood some little, it may be very short, time elapses before the symptoms manifest them- selves. In the former, also, the symptoms gradually pass off, but in the latter they become more and more marked.” ^ “ The diagnostic signs of concussion and compression are, no doubt, distinct in a certain sense, yet compression rarely exists as a conse- quence of violence without concussion, and both are complicated with shock. Further, symptoms of simple concussion may become developed, at a later period, into those which indicate some more serious lesion: and it is in exceptional cases only that we can identify, with any degree of certainty, the efficient and sole cause of compression. Thus, in the stunning effects which succeed a blow on the head, if we can rouse a patient from his state of unconsciousness, even for a few moments, if the breathing is calm and noiseless, if the pulse is feeble, the pupils are contracted and reflex action can be excited, we conclude that the con- dition is one of concussion. The intensity of the effects of so-called concussions are marked by the character of the symptoms and by their