IREEGULAEITT OF TEETH. 665 Imperfections in Structural Development. At tlie present day the early decay and loss of teeth is very common, and is probably in part due to an insufficient supply of food containing the elements which go to build up the osseous structures,^ malnutrition in early life, from whatever cause, leaving inevitably its mark on the exteriors of the teeth, which, once ill formed, have no power of recuperation. Structural defects in enamel development. Perfected enamel contains upwards of 95 per cent, of earthy matter, and consists of rods united together without intervening matrix, and placed at right angles to the surface of the dentine. Enamel, when weU formed, is semi-transparent, but when defective from a want of homogeneousness in its structure it presents an opaque white, chalky appearance, and is then easily disintegrated. At the bottom of the natural sulci of otherwise well-formed teeth enamel is sometimes deficient in thickness and in soundness, and this favours the ingress of decay. Structural defects in dentine formation. Well-formed dentine is uniformly dense and ivory-like. It is built up of tuhuli and intertuhular substance, the tubuli serving to convey nutrition from the pulp to the periphery. Dentine is endowed with sensitiveness through nerves (probably too small for demonstration), which pass from the pulp to the surface and render the dentine imme- diately beneath the enamel especially sensitive. Through imperfect development a (so-called) granular layer which is found on the surface of dentine in the root may be present on the surface of coronal dentine. The (so-called) globular condition of dentine is another developmental defect. When the enamel covering is lost, imperfect dentine softens rapidly under decay without becoming darkened, and is also apt to he exceedingly sensitive. Structural defect conducing to decay. Malnutrition. Sound enamel. defective enamel. Dentine. Imperfec- tions in dentine. Cutting of the Teeth. During the eruption of the temporary teeth, if there is disturbance of the general health traceable to dental irritation, and especially if there be the least sign of cerebral disturbance, there should be no hesitation in freely lancing the gum—tumid or tense—which covers Lancing of the tooth that is presenting. In the case of a front tooth a straight incision should he made on to the front of its cutting edge; in the case of the molars a crucial incision should he made from corner to comer. As a rule the permanent teeth erupt very easily, but an incision with a lancet may sometimes with advantage he had recourse to in cases where cerebral disturbance is easily excited, and it is often well to remove bodily the gum from above an erupting wisdom tooth when an antagonist tooth bites upon and irritates it. Irregularity of Position. Irregularity of arrangement hardly ever occurs among the tempo- Irregularity, rary teeth, but an undue prominence of the upper incisors, which sometimes is acquired, and a tendency to underhangiug, from the over-development of the lower jaw as compared with the upper, should * In infancy and childhood plenty of good milk aud the use of “ xohoU flour meal ” are to be recommended; it is to be borne in mind that until a child begins to take animal food, the above are the sources of supply of lime salts.