ARTEKIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. 460 Varicose aneurism. In the varicose aneurism the sac may or may not freely communicate with the artery or vein. In some cases it will involve the whole calibre of both vessels ; or the vein may he hypertrophied and enlarged, as in the aneurismal varix. In a unique case (I'ig. 139) recorded by Mr. Cock (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1851), of a traumatic varicose aneurism of the popliteal artery, the sac was small but involved the whole calibre of the artery and vein, and the whole of the arterial blood passed through it. The secondary effects of the disease were also shown with singular elearness. It occurred in a man set. 28, who eleven years previously had received a punctured wound in the popliteal artery for which two weeks subsequently, on aecount of secondary htemorrhage, the femoral was ligatured. He convalesced and returned to his work, but two years afterwards became the subject of “ varicose veins.” He re- mained well until three or four months before his admission into Guy’s, when he had fever, and, on convalescing and trying to walk, discovered his leg was stiff, painful and swollen. He was admitted with what was supposed to be a large collection of pus beneath the superficial muscles of the calf. The femoral artery below Poupart’s ligament and the anterior and posterior tibial arteries were pulsating freely. The cavity was opened, some ounces of dark grumous, pitchy, non-coagulable blood escaped. The next day a quantity of offensive pus flowed away mixed with coagula. For a fortnight everything went well, when arterial haemorrhage took place, and he lost nearly three pints of blood. After due consultation, amputation was performed, from which an excellent recovery ensued. On dissecting the limb, Mr. Poland found connected with the popli- teal artery an aneurismal sac (Fig. 139, «) the size of a pigeon’s egg; which was of cartilaginous hardness, and lined with fibrine. The artery (A) freely entered the sac from above. The vein (V) was obstructed above with coagulated blood, and below was lost in the walls of the sac as a fibrous cord. From the lower part of the sac two vessels issued, the smaller one (a) was the continua- tion of the popliteal artery greatly diminished in size, which divided as usual to the leg. The larger (o a) was the popliteal vein greatly hypertrophied, pouched, and puckered. It was quite pervious, and passed down for about two inches, when it divided into two trunks; one, which accompanied the anterior tibial artery, was quite obliterated, tbe other led directly into a second aneurismal sac (s') the size of a duck’s egg, with tbe walls of which its coats became identified. It was this that had been opened. From the lower part of this venous sac emerged three or four large impervious branches that were clearly veins .accompanying the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The contents of these veins could be washed out and the valves seen. It should be added that the cutaneous veins above described as varicose were greatly hy- Fig. 139. Mr. Cock’s case of arterio- venous aneurism.