AFFECTIONS OP THE EXTERNAL EAR. 386 When suppuration has heen fairly established, and all perception of light lost, the eyeball must be treated as an ordinary abscess and the Incision. pus let out by incision. Malforma- Malformations.—The malformations of the external ear which are me an entire want of the auricle to those in which the possession of s double set is seen. In cases where the hearing is not affectec by the malformation the surgeon may be consulted as to the pro priety of an operation with a cosmetic view. He must in these regulah his opinion by the usual surgical rules, having regard to any possibl interference with the acuteness of hearing which an operation migh entail. The most common malformation is a congenital, either partia or entire, want of the auricle, with a failure of the meatus auditorial externus, or an occluded meatus, the lobules of the ear occasional!; being displaced either on to the neck or cheeks (uicfeFig. 107). But thi Fig. 107. Drawing of occluded ears taken from a female patient of Mr. Bryant’s, aged three months. Right auricle smaller than left and more deformed. The pen- dulous bodies contained cartilage, the child had likewise a pendulous out- growth on left nostril. auricle may be absent from injuries, and the meatus closed fron: otitis, lupus, &c. Such defects do not necessarily occasion an absencf of the hearing power, and cases are on record in which patients will this defect could hear sufficiently well to hold conversations witt those to whose voices they were accustomed. Before deciding tc operate in such congenital cases it is advisable to keep the child undei Treatment, hearing are developed. Should it be determined to operate, the point of operation may now and again be fixed by passing a current of air through the Eustachian tube and noting the point at which the iuy pingeraent of air at the end of the cul-de-sac is heard best. This is accomplished by using what is generally called “ Politzer’s method’ (Fig. 108), which consists in passing the soft nozzle of a caoutchouc bag filled with air into one or other nostril of the patient, and while he swallows a mouthful of water, compressing the nostrils with the CHAPTER IX. AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. By Mr. Laidlaw Pubves. AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. tions. with are very varied, extending from cases in which there occur observation for some time for the purpose of noting if any signs of JU; BWillMJWO ix mvuuiiilAv V*. ~ fingers of the left hand so as to prevent the exit of air througn I i