322 PRESBYOPIA. Lens required. Traumatic cataract. Direction of displacement of lens. Treatment. one dioptric for every period of 5 years from 40 to 60; sometimes by one dioptric and sometimes by a half only, for each similar period from 60 to 80. The following table shows the lens reqnired at each period of five years by the emmetropic eye. Should hypermetropia exist its degree must be ascertained and added to the number given in the table. The degree of myopia, on the contrary, must be subtracted : Age. Dioptrics. Age. Dioptrics. 40 0 65 4-5 45 1 70 . . 5'5 50 2 75 6 55 3 80 7 60 4 Should our patient require to see at some particular distance, the numbers in the table need not be adhered to; he may be allowed to select those lenses which he thinks suit best. As a matter of fact we often find that the glasses given in the table are too strong, especially in hypermetropic persons who have become presbyopic before taking to glasses. Such persons have long been accustomed to strain their accommodation to the utmost, and will not thank us for giving them glasses which neutralize the whole of their hypermetropia as well as their presbyopia. We shall give much greater satisfaction by ordering glasses which a little more than neutralize the hypermetropia, and so give a litcle help without being an absolute correction. Injuries.—Opacity of the lens (traumatic cataract) may be caused either by penetrating wounds of the cornea or simply by concussion. Dislocation of the lens.—As the result of blows upon the eyeball, the lens may become partially or entirely displaced; it may stUl retain its transparency, but often becomes more or less opaque. Displacement of the lens may take place upwards or downwards, laterally, forwards into the anterior chamber, backwards into the vitreous, or it may be entirely extruded from the globe through a wound in the sclerotic, and lie beneath the conjunctiva. In the three first positions the displacement is only partial and the margin of the lens can be seen by oblique illumination occu_pying some part of the pupil. In displacement forwards the pupil will be found dilated, irregular in shape, and fixed; oblique illumination will show the lens lying par- tially or entirely in the anterior chamber. In displacement backwards the iris will be tremulous, the pupil sluggish, and the anterior chamber deepened. Direct ophthalmoscopic examination will probably detect the lens lying in the ciliary region at the lower part of the eye. In displacement beneath the conjunctiva the lens is found forming a small rounded tumour, somewhere near the corneal margin, most frequently at its upper part. Teeatmknt.—If the lens be displaced partially or into the anterior chamber, and still retain its transparency, it may be left alone. Hut should it become opaque or appear to be setting up irritation, it should be removed by extraction, preferably associated with iridectomy. A transparent lens may remain for years in the anterior chamber, and, with the exception of impairment of vision, give rise to no inconvenience.