RUPTURE OP VISCERA. 603 the late Mr. T. E. Bryant of Kennington, and is a portion of ileum in the coats of which there is a small perforation, the injury being produced by running against a post, and followed by collapse, from which the patient did not rally, but died on the third day. Cases are also on record in which, after an injury, a portion of intes- tine has sloughed and subsequently passed per rectum, a recovery taking place. In the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh several such preparations exist. The duodenum is rarely ruptured, its position protecting it; never- theless such an accident does occur. Taylor, in his ‘Medical Juris- prudence,’ gives a case, where a boy aet. 13, after a blow on the abdomen, walked a mile with but little assistance, and, when he died (thirteen hours after the accident), the duodenum was found to be completely ruptured across. The jejunum is doubtless more frequently ruptured than any other part of the intestines, its fixed position rendering it liable to be torn away from the duodenum by such an injury as the passage of a wheel over the abdomen. Poland gives fourteen examples of this kind, and in half of these the laceration was at its upper part. In one case, after death, three or four pints of thin pink-coloured fluid was found iu the abdomen, probably the iced w'ater of which he had freely partaken after the accident, and in all, death took place from collapse and peritonitis. The ileum is also frequently ruptured, and most commonly from a direct blow or fall on a hard body. In the majority of such cases there is no external mark of injury, and frocal effusion with peritonitis are the usual causes of death. When the rupture is large, little hope exists of a recovery; when small, such a hope, however, may be entertained. When a patient is the subject of hernia and receives a blow upon the tumour, a ruptured intestine may doubtless take place. Aston Key made this the subject of a memoir in the ‘ Guy’s Keps.’ for 1842, and Poland has collected many such cases in the same periodical for 1858. Rupture of the gut is the usual result of such an accident, and when it occurs, a fatal termination is to be expected. When the bowel is only bruised, however, it may recover or slough, and be followed by an artificial anus. In none of these cases should any attempt at reduction be made, when symptoms of inflammation or of injury are severe. The surgeon should, however, explore the sac. In all recorded cases where the bowel was returned, a fatal result took place. The large intestine is rarely ruptured from violence. When over- distended from fffical accumulation the result of stricture or otherwise, such a result may ensue; but, under ordinary circumstances it is too well protected. I have, however, known florid blood to flow from the bowel after an abdominal contusion, and have, from that fact, suspected some laceration of the colon. Treatment.—The chief point to insist on is the absolute necessity of treating every case of injury to the abdomen with excessive caution, as very severe mischief may be caused by violence and yet the im- mediate symptoms not be marked. Collapse after the injrj-y, as has been shown, is by no means a necessary consequence; for rupture of the intestine itself may take place without exciting such a condition; indeed, a patient may walk after a ruptured liver or intestine. The surgeon, therefore, should be guarded in his prognosis as well as careful, w'atchful, and expectant in treatment. Recovery after sloughing of intestine. Ruptured duodenum. Ruptured jejunum. Ruptured ileum. Blow on hernial tumour. Ruptured large intestine. Treatment of ruptured intestine.