272 FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. Fracture of odontoid process. Diagnosis. Increase of temperature When fracture of the odontoid process takes place, as it may from external violence, or during the progress of some disease in the vertebrm, death, as a rule, occurs suddenly; the victim being literally pithed. In other cases, and these generally of disease, the displace- ment may be gradual; death being then often preceded by paralysis of an arm or leg, or both, with difficulty in swallowing, pain in the neck, and inability to raise the head into the erect position, or to rotate it. Vide paper on fractures of the odontoid process, by Dr. Stephen Smith, of New York (‘ American Journal of Med. Sci.,’ Oct., 187p. Diagnosis.—When a patient has received a severe injury to the spinal column followed by complete paralysis, there can be little doubt that the cord has been injured, and that a fracture or dislocation with dis- placement of the vertebrae has taken place. When the paralysis is partial, it is probable that the cord has been only partially involved, being more or less bruised, or sti’etched, according to the nature of the accident, and the extent of the displacement of the injured bones. When no paralysis is present the diagnosis is difficult. When any inequality or irregularity in the spinous processes is pre- sent; any pain in one spot aggravated by pressure; any crepitus on manipulation; any local effusion of blood about the spine; any in- ability to move the spine or support the body; when priapism appears early in the case; when one or more or all of these symptoms come on after such an accident as is liable to produce them, the diagnosis of a fracture or dislocation is tolerably clear. When paralysis of an arm or leg follows a spinal injury, it is possible that the paralysis may be caused by some partial displace- ment of the injured bone, by pressure upon one or more of the nerves that pass outward from the spine, or, by laceration of a nerve trunk. When paralysis is incomplete, the motor power is generally more completely lost than that of sensation; indeed, it often happens that there is hypermsthesia in that portion of the body contiguous to the paralysed part, owing to the portion of cord above the injury being over-active or irritated by the sharp parts of the fractured bone. Intense pain in the line of junction of the paralysed and non- paralysed parts signifies fracture in Mr. Eidchsen’s opinion. In esti- mating the seat of injury from the position of the paralysis, it is right to remember that the nerves come off obliquely from the spinal cord and pass dowmwards, the cervical and dorsal nerve trunks leaving the spine one vertebra or two vertebrae lower than the spot whence they are given off; while the cord terminates at the second lumbar vertebra. Thus, when fracture takes place below the second lumbar vertebra, there may be no paralysis. The patient may be unable to stand or walk wholly or in part, but place him on his back and there will be free movement of his legs. In other cases, the nerve trunks around the cauda equina may be involved. ^ When a patient has received a severe spinal Injury, there may or may not occur what is called “shock;” but when these symptoms have passed off and those of reaction appear, there will commonly in cervical injuries exist some throbbing of the arteries and increase of the tem- perature of the paralysed parts. These conditions are due to para-