89 SYPHILIS. parts. The seat of the eruption is greatly determined by the degree of cleanliness observed, the irritation of dirt and moisture in any locality in syphilitic children being followed by condylomata or mucous patches. The orifices of the nose, mouth, and anus are at times fissured in a Fisanres at very marked manner, and occasionally exhibit manifestations of the orifices, disease which can never be mistaken, even years afterwards. In the annexed drawing these alterations about the face are most typical (Fig. 13). When the disease is allowed to run its course the child’s general Emaciation, condition suflFers, it becomes emaciated and puny, the digestive organs become deranged and refuse to assimilate food, however good; while vomiting and diarrhoea are common consequences. Evidence of starva- tion soon appears, the skin becomes baggy, and of a peculiar dusky hue j when not covered or scarred with eruptions it may have a jaundiced appearance, and the child will probably die from what is called maras- mus, which means wasting from starvation. When the disease does not run so rapid a course, other symptoms show themselves. It may be in the skin, bones, eye, ear, or viscera. In the skin, subcutaneous, or submucous tissues, the disease may Affections of appear in the form of gummy swellings or tumours, which may break up skin, Jfec. 8cc. and give rise to irregular excavated cellulo-membranous abscesses. In the bones the disease may show itself as nodes, the humerus ap- pearing to be the bone most com- monly affected, though I have seen several instances in which the bones of the skull were fright- fully involved. In the eye the symptoms are well known; the interstitial kera- titis, a form of disease, according to Hutchinson, which is peculiar to hereditary syphilis,generally shows itself between the ages of eight and fifteen years. It appears as a dif- fused haziness of the centre of the cornea, unattended with ulce- ration ; this haziness begins in independent patches, which sub- sequently coalesce, the cornea, at a later date, appearing like ground glass. The affection is attended with photophobic pain about the orbit and sclerotic injection. It generally involves both ej’es seriatim. Under treatment the disease may be arrested, but when it is severe, patches of haziness remain which interfere with vision, and at times cause complete blindness (Fig. 13). Iritis is also another complication, though a rare one, as is choroiditis and also amaurosis. Deafness is not unfrequent, the hearing failing without any external Deafness, disease, such as otorrhoea. In most cases both ears are affected. Hydrocephalus and syphilis are also allied. Syphilitic disease of the Hydroce- phalus. Em. 13. Interstitial keratitis.