245 TETANUS. never locked except during the spasm. These points of difference are sufficient to assist the surgeon in the investigation of a doubtful case. Again, hydraphobia and tetanus have been mistaken the one for the From other, but any one who has seen the former disease could hardly fall into hydrophobia, such an error. The peculiar restlessness of mind and body, the com- plete intervals of rest and absence of spasm, the peculiar aversion that is shown to fluid, accompanied by thirst, all symptoms characteristic of hydrophobia, are enough to distinguish between the two. Never- theless, it should be remembered that Dr. J. W. Ogle, late of St. George’s, has recorded a case of tetanus and hydrophobia combined. (‘ Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,’ 1868.) Prognosis.—In acute traumatic cases there are small hopes of re- Prognosis, covery while in chronic the chances are greater. The longer the patient lives the better seem the prospects of a good result; and, if ten days pass after the first appearance of the symptoms, and the disease is on the decline, the prognosis is favorable. Taking all cases together, Poland gives one recovery to seven and a half deaths. More than half die within five days. The most rapid death has been in from four to five hours; and the longest duration of life on record in a fatal case, is thirty-nine days. How death is caused.—There can be little doubt that acute tetanus Mode of commonly destroys life by apnoea; spasm of the muscles of respiration death, and more particularly those of the larynx being the immediate cause. Poland tells us that this was the case in thirty-two out 6f forty-six cases at Guy’s Hospital in which the mode of death was noticed. In chronic tetanus, death is commonly caused by exhaustion. These facts have an important bearing on the treatment of the disease. Pathology.—The late Mr. Wilkinson King, of Guy’s, is stated by Pathologj’. Poland to have been in the habit of remarking at the post-mortem table, whenever there was an examination of a case of death from tetanus, “ Gentlemen, we will now proceed to give you a demonstration of a case of healthy anatomy, for there will ho no visible morbid appearances otherwise than congestion of the organs in various degrees, owing to accidental circumstances.” And at the present day these remarks hold good. It is true that Rokitansky, Demme, Lockhart Clarke, and Dickinson, have given us some desci’iptious of structural changes in the spinal cord which they have observed; and their observations moreover seem to coincide. These changes consist of disintegration and softening of a portion of the grey substance of the cord, which appears in certain parts to be almost diffluent. The semi-fiuid sub- stance thus formed, however, “ is at first more or less granular, holding in suspension the fragments and particles of the disintegrated tissue, but in many places it is perfectly pellucid” (L. Clarke). Yet it is to he re- membered that Billroth and other pathologists have failed to find these changes in the instances which they have examined, and it cannot there- fore be accepted as certain, that these pathological conditions are con- stant in tetanus. There can be little doubt, however, that the nerves of Nerves of the injured part are at times found inflamed and irritated, and from part this fact, the theory has been advanced, that through the injured nerves of the part the spinal centres become involved, and manifest these states of excitement through the motor nerves by producing muscular spasm j the disease being one essentially of the excito-motory system.