HYDEOPHOBIA. 72 poisoned, we may help him to recover. If he he badly bitten by one of the more deadly snakes, we can do no more.” (Fayrer.) Bites of Diseased Animals. Hydrophobia. Symptoms in the dug. Stage of depression. Stape of e.\citement. Stage of muscular debility. Hydrophobia, meaning the " dread of waterwhich is more correctly termed “ babies,” is a disease contracted from a rabid animal, gene- rally from its bite through its saliva or mucus. It appears at all seasons of the year, and is always fatal. It is more common in temperate regions of the world than in the torrid and frigid zones. It is unknown in Australia, New Zealand, Greenland, and Kamschatka. Blaine and Youatt affirm that in animals, rabies is entirely due to a traumatic action, viz., the bite of some rabid creature inflicted on an- other previously free from the disease. Fleming, the most recent authority, tells us, however, that the virus of rabies may, under certain favorable conditions, be generated directly without the intervention of any infect- ing medium, although at present we are in complete ignorance of the conditions on which its spontaneous production depends. All animals bitten do not contract the disease, as is proved by Renault of Alfort, who caused dogs, horses, &c., to be bitten several times, and even inoculated them, when out of 99 cases, 67 contracted the malady, and 32, or one third, escaped. F’leming calculates that 30 or 40 per cent, of people who are bitten by mad animals go mad. In the dog there are three well-marked stages of the complaint. The first is the melancholic, characterised by melancholy, depression, sul- lenness, and fidgettiness; the second, the furious, by excitement, or rabid fury; aud the last, the paralytic, by general muscular debility and actual paralysis. “ The dog,” writes Trousseau, “ looks ill and sullen after a period of incubation of very variable length; he is constantly agitated, turning round and round inside his kennel, or roaming about if he is at large. His eyes, when turned on his master, have a strange look in them, ex- pressive of sadness as well as of distrust. His attitude is suspicious, aud indicates that he is not well; by his wandering ‘ he seems to be seeking’ for a remedy. He is not to be trusted; if he obeys at all, he does it slowly; if you chastise him he may, in spite of himself, inflict a fatal bite.” “ His agitation increases ; if in a room, he runs about look- ing under the furniture, tearing the curtains and carpets, sometimes flying at the walls, at others jumping as if to catch flies; the next moment he stops, stretches his neck, and seems to listen to a distant noise. He probably has then hallucinations of sight aud hearing.” “This delirium,” says Youatt, *■ may still be dispersed by the magical influence of his master's voice; all these dreadful objects may vanish, and the creature creeps to his master with the expression of attachment peculiar to him.” “ There follows then an interval of calm ; he slowly closes his eyes, hangs down his head, his fore legs seem to give way beneath him, and he looks on the point of dropping. Suddenly, however, he gets up again; fresh phantoms rise before him; he looks around him with a savage expression, and rushes against an enemy which only exists in his imagination. By this time the animal’s bark is hoarse and muffled; loud at first, it gradually fails in force and intensity, and becomes weaker and weaker. In some cases the power of barking is completely