ARTERIO-'VENOUS ANEURISM. Treatment cirsoid aneurism. Example. 462 may be seen converging to a centre, where a congeries of dilated arteries will be found, probably of new growth. It may, however, affect the arteries of the extremity. I have seen it in the foot. Fig. 140, and Ci’uveilhier has reported a case in which the external iliac artery Fin. 140. was so affected. Cirsoid aneurism is generally found in young people, | during the period of growth, and in the majority of cases can he traced I to local injury. It can be readily made out by its pulsating nature, | and the peculiar tortuous and convoluted appearance of the diseased I vessels, not only of the vessels forming the tumour, but of the arteries I by which it is supplied. Treatment.—All forms of treatment have been tried in these cases, | such as direct pressure, injection, the application of ligatures to the ' vessels that converge towards the growth, and to the main artery that ; goes to the part: the tumour has, moreover, been laid open and treated I by pressure, with the view of causing its obliteration by inflammatory exudation; Graf, Bell, Arnott, and Lawrence have each recorded suc- cessful instances of this form of practice, but no good success in the majority of cases has been achieved. The best success has, however, followed the removal of the growth I either by the application of the ligature or by excision. In 1876 I I excised a cirsoid aneurism, situated below the jaw in connection with the facial artei-y, from a lady, set. 25, with success. In 1867 I treated | a boy aged 14 for a large cirsoid aneurism of four years’ growth situated on the right temple. It was supplied with blood by tortuous vessels converging from all quarters, and pulsated freely ; I applied acupressure pins to all these vessels, even to their division, without success; the growth for the time became flaccid, but quickly reappeared and increased. Under these circumstances I excised the tumour, making my incisions at some distance from its margin, and ligatured about twenty large vessels as I proceeded ; a rapid recovery followed, and the boy was well three years later. In this case it was remarkable to see how rapidly the tortuous convoluted arteries that supplied the tumour withered and