260 CONGENITAL SACRAL TUMOURS. ever any pressure was applied to the tumour, even from the weight of the body when placed in the supine position. The tumour was large and semi-transparent. I punctured it obliquely with a darning needle at intervals of two or three days, four or six times, and applied i a compress of lint by means of strapping over tbe tumour. After I this the fluid was not again secreted, the convulsions ceased, and the > case got well.” At the present time, a bard puckered tumour alone i exists to indicate the aflection. A model of the case may now be found in Guy’s Museum. I Injections. Mr. Holmes speaks somewhat favorably of the practice by injection, and believes it to be often harmless. When performed, the fluid should ! only be partially withdrawn, and four or five drops of the tincture of iodine diluted with a drachm of water injected. The strength of the I injection may be increased on each occasion, the object being to excite | a slow process of inflammation in the cyst. In no case where the base uuadviaable. or neck of the tumour is large, nor in others in which it is evident the cord is implicated, or large nerve trunks are involved, should this or any other operation be performed. In pedunculated tumours it may be attempted. I Morton’s Dr. Boss Watt, of Ayr, N.B., has recorded (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ lodo- April, 1873, Jan., 1874) two successful cases in w'hich he injected at solut^n^ intervals of seven or ten days half a drachm of Dr. Morton’s solution made by dissolving ten grains of iodine and thirty grains of iodine of potassium in an ounce of glycerine. The injection was thrown into the sac after the withdrawal of the spinal fluid. Dr. Morton bad had some good results by the same treatment. Excision. With respect to the excision of the tumour, a successful case has i been recorded in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. xiv, in which Dr. Wilson, of Clay Cross, removed the tumour five days after the closure of its j neck by means of a clamp •, and, when excision is entertained, this plan is probably the soundest. It should, however, only be thought of when the neck of the tumour is narrow, and there is no paralysis of the lower limbs or incontinence of faeces or urine. In all broad-based tumours associated with paralysis, operative measures are out of the question. Exceptional cases are on record of recovery, after every form of practice, but, on the whole, the results of treatment are not very en- couraging. Sacral and Coccygeal Tumours. Characters. Congenital tumours are by no means unfrequent in the neighbourhood of the coccyx or sacrum. They are sometimes composed of cysts,. occasionally of fat or fibre tissue, and also of fcetal remains. They are generally central. Many of these have, doubtless, been described . as false spina bifida, and, in rare examples, there is reason to believe Their nature, they are cured cases of spina bifida, the sac of the hernia having been occluded at its neck by the natural contraction of the surround- ing parts. 1 have seen one such case in an adult where the tumour was successfully excised. Mr. Pollock has recorded in the eighth volume of the ‘ Path. Trans.’ an example of a congenital fatty Examples. tumour which he successfully removed from the central lumbar region I of a child set. 7; and, Mr. Athol Johnson, in the same volume, a rare case of fatty tumour clearly developed in the spinal canal