GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. 236 the brain, with such complications as contusion or laceration of the brain and effusion of blood either upon its surface or within the ventricles. 6. Falls upon a pointed object, or blows with a sharp instrument, are, as a rule, followed by local fracture; and if the brain be injured, it is at the seat of injury. As a consequence, the symptoms may be accounted for by local causes only, and the surgical treatment should be directed by local considerations. 7. When symptoms of compression of the brain immediately follow an injury to the skull which has been produced by a fall from a height, or by a blow from a heavy and blunt instrument, the cerebral injury will be general, the brain will be contused and lacerated, particularly at the base, by contre-coup, and if extravasated blood be found external to the dura mater, blood will also be found upon the surface of the brain, or within its membranes. The operation of trephining under these cir- cumstances can he of no avail. 8. If symptoms of compression of the brain foUow a local injury produced by a fall upon a sharp object, or a quick blow from a pointed one, such symptoms, as a rule, are produced by local causes, such as depressed bone, or extravasation of blood from a ruptured vessel, and such local injuries should be treated by the elevation of the depressed bone or by trephining. 9. When compression of the brain follows a local injury over the course of the meningeal artery, and the symptoms come on after reaction has been established, and the lapse of an interval of time from the receipt of the injury, although no depressed bone be present, the operation of trephining may be performed. 10. Encephalic inflammation may follow any concussion or injury to the brain, however slight, whether complicated or not with fracture; the danger of such a result being in proportion to the encephalic injury. In cases of contusion or laceration of the brain with extravasation of blood, it is almost sure to occur, and, as a rule, will cause a fatal termination. This inflammation may appear within a few hours of the accident, or it may be postponed for a few days; it may be very rapid in its course, or very insidious in its nature. If the brain alone be affected, either a diffused or local abscess may result; while if the membranes are involved, effusions, convulsions, general or partial paralysis, coma, and death, will rapidly take place. 11. Fractures of the base of the skull may take place alone, and be marked by only special symptoms. They may be associated with, and are generally found in, all cases of severe fracture of the vault, when produced by a heavy fall or blow, the fissures radiating down- wards in a direction parallel to the forces employed. 12. Fractures of the base may be complicated with encephalic injuries similar to those which complicate fractures of the vault, con- sequently they may be manifested by general as well as special sym- ptoms ; and in severe cases the former completely mask the latter. 13. All injuries to the head should be treated with extreme care and always regarded as serious. Rest in the horizontal posture, free- dom from excitement, bland, nutritious, unstimulating food, being essentials under all circumstances; the great principles of practice con- sisting in warding oflT excess of reaction and inflammation of the cranial contents. i