708 HEMORRHOIDS. Treatment of external piles. Internal piles. Character and conditions. other times it will he profuse, but its exact seat is not so evident. The flow comes from between the pendulous flaps of skin, and ceases when they have been removed. The TREATMENT of these external piles is simple, and excision is the only radical cure. The pendulous flaps of skin that surround the anus may be removed with a pair of sharp scissors, the tumour having been drawn forward with a pair of forceps. These incisions should be made in lines radiating towards the anus. When coagulated blood has been poured out into the pile and a tense painful tumour exists, it may be punctured or laid open with a lancet; bleeding, when it occurs, being easily arrested by cold and moderate pressure. When the pile is in- flamed, leeching often gives comfort, and the application of a poultice, covered with the extract of opium gives relief. When the part sup- purates, the abscess may be opened. In the early stage of the affection, local cleanliness, the abstinence from highly seasoned food and strong wines are mostly sufiBcient, the bowels being kept clear by euemata, or the occasional dose of a mild aperient, such as the compound rhubarb pill before dinner, some saline purgative water or electuary. When local irritation exists, an ointment composed of equal parts of zinc, nitrate of mercury, and subacetate of lead is very valuable, some recommend also the compound gall ointment. An ointment of zinc and the extract of belladonna is very useful. Internal piles are very insidious in their growth; so insidious, indeed, that bleeding is often the first symptom that attracts notice. On inquiry, however, it may generally be made out that constipation has been the normal condition, and that irritation about the anus, with a feeling of heat and fulness in the parts, had previously existed. These piles often appear after parturition. When the parts inflame, there will be throbbing, and pain in defaecation; when they protrude, there will r I' Fig. 290. Internal heemorrhoids. le one two, three, or more masses of thickened mucous membrane with iffivoid structure, presenting either a smooth and tense, or a reticulated surface. Sometimes there will be oozing of blood from the whole sur- •ace or the blood may spurt from a distinct orifice. The blood is