Treatment where there is an anal cul-de-sac. Wlien simple. When complicated. Avoid deep e.vploratiou. ; Treatment I where cul-de sac high up. Intestine to be drawn down if possible. 694 SURGERY OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. upper bowel communicates with the urinary or vaginal passages, it is owing to the incomplete separation of the natural cloaca that exists during the development of those parts. A clear understanding of the way in which these deformities are caused will explain the difficulties that are met with in their treatment. ^ Treatment.—On the birth of every child, the condition of the different outlets of the body should invariably be examined, and even when the anus appears normal, a digital examination should be made on the second day, if the bowels have failed to act, as many an infant’s life has been lost for the want of this attention and the consequent postponement of surgical relief till too late a period. In the simplest cases when the anus is closed by a thin membrane and the bulging of the distended rectum indicates its nature, a cau- tious central incision through the soft parts should at once be made, and a good result is generally obtained, the power of the anus usually being complete. Mr. R. Harrison, of Liverpool, records the case of a child who was born with an imperforate anus, and was successfully operated upon in the anal region thirty-three days after birth. (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 26th, 1876.) In the more complicated cases where the anus is closed or absent and no inlying of the loioel exists, where the surgeon has no means of making out the true position of the terminal end of the bowel, a cautious incision may be made over the spot in which the anus ought to be found, the finger of the left hand acting as a pilot, hut this must be carried out with care. The incision may be free as long as it is carried upwards and backwards towards the sacrum, and not forwards towards the urethra or vagina. It must not, however, be made too high. Where there is not sufficient room to carry out this practice, the coccyx may be cut away. When these means fail, all further attempts must be relinquished. To inti’oduce a knife or a trocar and canula blindly upwards with the vain hope of puncturing the distended bowel, is a practice to be rmhe- sitatingly condemned. Mr. Curling’s figures, too, prove that the perineal exploratory operation unless undertaken with great care, does more harm than good ; though when skilfully performed it is followed by considerable success. In the treatment of the second class of cases, when the rectum terminates above in a cul-de-sac, an exploratory operation may be made as just described, but the uncertainty as to the true position of the bowel renders any operative proceeding hazardous. When the two tubes are in contact and only separated by their membranous ends, as in the case illustrated (Fig. 286), a good result may be expected, but, when they are far apart, no such success can be anticipated. Mr. Curling in his table gives 31 examples of this class of cases. In 27 an attempt was made to reach the bowel, in 16 with success, while 10 of these subsequently recovered. When the bowel is opened in any of these cases and is not far from the anus, the surgeon should use all fair endeavours to draw down the intestine to the margin of the external opening and fasten it with sutures to the skin. He cannot often, however, succeed in accomplish- ing this, the bowel being rarely found at a less distance than an inch from the perinmum; but when possible, the advantages of the practice are great. Where this cannot be attained, repeated dilatation of the