545 DISEASES OP THE JAWS. formation. They frequently involve many bones. Sir J. Paget (‘ Sur- gical Path.’) states, that in the only case on record of enchondroma of the upper jaw alone, the disease was removed by Mr. Morgan—late of Guy’s from a man set. 24; the tumour was of the right maxilla and was of nine years’ growth. The patient survived the operation seven years. Figs. 218 and 219 illustrate the case; the first being taken before Fig. 218. Pio- 219. I Mr. Morgan’s operation and the second after the patient’s death. Dr. ‘ Heyfelder, of Munich, says, however, that he found eight such cases J out of 450 of disease of the upper jaw. r Tbeatment.—All solid tumours of the upper jaw must be ex- Treatment of ] tirpated, but not more of the bone should be removed than is tumours of 0 necessary. Sir W. Fergusson established this rule in practice, and ‘tpperga». 1 it is one that all surgeons should strive to follow. Thus, when the n disease springs and projects from the facial surface of the bone, t the tumour, with the facial plate alone, requires excision. When < the alveolar process is alone implicated, the other portions of the r bone must not be touched. Where possible, the palate plate II should be preserved, and it is bad surgery to interfere with the ii orbital plate without an absolute necessity. When the whole hone I is involved in the disease, it must he removed, but such cases are excep- i) tional. In many cases where the disease originates in the antrum, a :■ partial removal of the bone will suffice, if the surgeon can at first » only lay open the cavity and find out the base of the growth. For I perforating the antrum with a view to exploration Sir W. Fergusson I' recommends an ordinary carpenter’s gimlet. < Operation for the removal of part or the whole of the upper jaw.— E.\cision of •J The incision now almost universally adopted for the removal of tumours part orwliole i from the upper jaw is the one of Sir W. Fergusson (Fig. 220) ; as by it “Pper jaw. ’ all the necessary room is given to remove even the largest growth. The ;i facial nerve and artery are divided, where by their size, they are of small Description ' consequence, and the scai’s are so placed as to become almost impercep- VOL. I. 35 Enchondroma of upper jaw. Before operation. Model, Guy’s Hosp. After death. Model, Guy’s Hosp. Mas., S8“. Mus., 38“.