VENTKAL HERNIA. 688 Wlien a double sac exists. On ventral hernia. On perineal hernia. On iscliiatic hernia. occasions with a similar result. A double sac is found at times in um- hilical hernia. Some time ago I was called on to operate in such a case. The woman was aged 44, and had been ruptured for years, the hernia being irreducible. She came under my care at Guy’s, with symptoms of two days’ strangulation. The rupture was clearly in- flamed, the slightest manipulation causing intolerable pain. Under chloroform I cut down upon the tumour, and found two distinct sacs, their orifices which were placed laterally, being separated by a piece of dense fibre tissue. One contained a mass of omentum, the second, intestine, which was black from congestion and covered with lymph. The orifices of the sacs were freely divided and their contents left, but the patient died, and no examination after death was allowed. In another case, I found strangulated bowel in a small omental sac intro- duced into an irreducible hernia. A ventral hernia is a term applied to any protrusion through the abdominal walls not belonging to the usual forms. Most of these are found in the linea alba above the naval. One of the largest I ever saw was over the right diac fossa; and followed a rupture of the abdominal muscles caused by a fall of twenty feet upon the handle of a pump. It was the size of a man’s hand, and strangulated. By the taxis I reduced the mass, and, by the use of ice locally aud opium internally, the man recovered. He had, however, subsequently to wear a pad to support the part. After the operation of ovariotomy a very large protrusion may take place, if a good belt be not worn. The same may arise after the weaken- ing of the abdominal walls from abscess. When the hernia takes place below the xiphoid cartilage it is called epigastric, and in the loins, lumbar. Birkett quotes two such cases. In 1875 I saw an example of the epigastric form with Mr. Treves, of Margate, in a lady, mt. 68, who had at the same time an irreducible umbilical hernia. Symptoms bad existed for 108 hours when I operated, and the bowel slipped back unseen on dividing the parts at the neck of the sac. The patient, however, sank. Perineal hernia descends in front of the rectum and appears in the periuffium, and is most common in women. When the hernia descends outside the vagina along the ramus of the ischium, it shows itself in the labium, labial or pudendal hernia,-Audi when it appeal’s in the vagina, vaginal hernia. Vaginal and labial herniae may be mistaken for the mucous cysts of those parts ,• but the herniae are reducible, and, when irreducible or strangulated, they give rise to symptoms indicative of these conditions. The cysts are only local affections, and cause no general symptoms. They are tense, elastic, globular tumours, fixed in the tissues, and have no neck passing upwards into the pelvis. Ischiatic hernia is a hernia through the sciatic notch, above or below the pyrlformis muscle. The gluteus maximus muscle covers it in ; but, as the hernia enlarges, it may appear below the lower border of that muscle. Dr. F. C. Crosse, in Sept., 1873 (‘ Dublin Journal of Medical Science’), has recorded an interesting example of this kind in a wmman, set. 40. The tumour occupied the lower border of the right gluteal fold, it was the size of a foetal head, soft and pulpy to the touch, dull in parts, tympanitic in others; and coughing gave an impulse to it. It was treated by a truss. When such a rupture becomes stran-