INJURIES OP THE SPINE, 262 General remarks. Local spinal injury. Diffused injury. Gravity of case dependent on amount of lesion to cord. Concussion of spine. Persistent paralysis. INJUEIES OP THE SPINE, CONCUSSION, &c. The spine is a flexible tubular column composed of ring bones, alter- nating with a dense elastic intervertebral substance. These bones articu- late by means of joints, and are bound together by strong yet elastic ligaments. From the upper orifice of the tube the spinal cord with its membranes is suspended in a chamber filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, and surrounded by large venous plexuses. The cord and its membranes are held in position by the nerve-trunks that pass with the processes of dura mater that accompany them outwards between the bones. A local injury to the spine, such as a forcible bend forwards, may sprain or lacerate the ligaments that hold the bones in position. A still more forcible bend may crush the bodies of the vertebr® that form the anterior portion of each ring. If the force be still continued upon the broken bones, displacement may take place, when the delicate cord itself will either be slightly pinched between the displaced bones and con- tused, or completely crushed or divided. In the cervical and lumbar regions, the bones may be dislocated, the amount of injury to the cord depending entirely upon the amonnt of displacement that has taken place. When such displacement is very slight, the cord may be unin- jured. Sprains of the back may also, at a later period, be followed by disease both of the joints and bones of the spine. A diffused injury to the spine, such as that caused by a fall from a height upon the back, or by a heavy falling body, or a severe shaking as from a railway accident, may produce some fracture or dislocation of the bones of the spine, but it must to a certainty cause a severe shaking or concussion of the spinal cord itself, as manifested by a more or less complete suspension of all the functions of the cord, either for a short period or for life. This concussion of the spine may be accompanied by hsemorrhage into or upon the cord, giving rise to compression, or may be followed by acute or chronic intra-spinal inflammation, termi- nating in paralysis and death. In hath local and diffused injuries of the spine the gravity of the case depends chiefly upon the amount of injury the cord has sustained; a severe local injury to the osseous part of the spine can be completely repaired without danger to life, whilst any injury to the cord and its membranes is fraught with danger, either directly by suddenly arresting the functions of the parts to which the injured nerves are distributed, or, indirectly by setting up chronic inflammatory changes in the cord. When the functions of the cord have been directly suspended by any local or diffused injury to the spine, the patient is said to have suffered from concussion of the spine. Should the symptoms be complete and persistent, there is good reason to believe that the cord has been crushed by some displacement of a fractured or dislocated bone. Should some interval of time have taken place between the receipt of the accident and the paralysis, there is a fair suspicion that the paralysis is the result of some hsemorrhage into or around the cord. Should the paralytic symptoms have followed the accident after a few days, and be attended with constitutional disturbance or spasm of the muscles of the limbs, the cause of the paralysis was probably some inflam- mation of the cord and its membranes ; and, should the paralysis have been of a slow and progressive nature, the probabilities are that it is the consequence of some chronic softening of the cord; because all these different results have followed local and diflused injuries to the spine,