416 HEMORRHAGE AND ITS TREATMENT. Local treatment of hoemorrhage. on the slightest motion; and the slightest inclination of the head, or rising suddenly from the couch, endangers fainting. The voice is low ; the eye is languid, colourless, and of a pearly white; the flesh feels soft and woolly, and the skin is pale, yellow, gelatinous, and, as it were, transparent, like modelled wax. After this stage of weakness the blood loses its colour; from this time forward it is a bloody serum only that distils from the vessels; dropsy appears, and the slightest loss of blood proves fatal. But when the patient expires suddenly by an impetuous bleeding from some great artery; when he dies of the bleeding from a femoral aneurism; when he is wounded among the viscera, and some great vessel is pouring out blood, the blood in the general circulation, in place of being forced onwards by the contractions of the arteries, runs backwards towards the wound from all parts of the body. The arteries no longer push on the contents of the veins; the blood ceases to flow towards the heart; the heart ceases to act; and the countenance assumes, as in asphyxia, a livid hue from want of circulation. The face becomes all at once deadly pale, the circle round the eyes is livid, the lips are black, and the extremities are cold. The patient faints, revives, and faints again; with a low and quivering pulse; he is sick; and his voice is lost. There is an anxious and incessant tossing of the arms, with restlessness, which is the most fatal sign of all. He tosses continually from side to side; his head falls down in the bed; he raises his head at times suddenly, gasping, as it were, for breath, with inexpressible anxiety; the tossing of the limbs continues; he draws long convulsive sighs; the pulse flutters and intermits from time to time, and he expires. The countenance is not of a transparent paleness, but of that clayey and leaden colour which the painter represents in assassinations and battles; and this. tossing of the limbs, which is commonly represented as the sign of a fatal wound, is indeed so infallible a sign of death that I have never known any one recover who had fallen into this condition.” (‘ Principles of Surgery,’ vol. i, page 143.) This sketch is so graphic that I have extracted it as a whole. Since my student days, when I first read it, it has been fixed in my memory. It is, however, only a page out of the work of a master surgeon which still deserves close study. A patient may lose a large quantity of blood and yet rally. Children bear the loss of blood badly, yet rally quickly. In old age a small hmmorrhage is of grave importance, the rallying power being very small. Hsemorrhage from any vessel, however large, is readily controlled by the application of well-applied direct pressure upon the wounded part, consequently any surgeon on being called to a case of wounded artery, having cleansed the wound and exposed the vessel, should put his thumb or finger on the bleeding orifice and check the flow. No mere covering up of the wound to smother the haemorrhage will be of any benefit. When moderate bleeding comes from a wound and its source is unknown, whether arterial or venous, the first duty of the surgeon is to clean the wound and remove clots. This act alone is often sufiicient of itself to arrest bleeding, not only for the time but permanently. The parts at the same time should be elevated and left exposed for a few hours. When the bleeding is venous, the elevation of the limb has a most beneficial and rapid action. In amputations, before the application ot