77 GLANDERS. death ensues from coma and e.\haustion. When the glands and ahsor- Constitu- i bents are involved, as in the farcy form, suppuration and sloughing, 1 are superadded to those already laid down. The prognosis of glanders is most unfavorable, recovery only taking Prognosis. I place in the mildest cases of poisoning. The disease in its acutest stage I may prove fatal in a week; indeed, it has run its course in three days, I but in general it lasts for three or four weeks, and in very chronic cases life has been prolonged for months. In chronic “ farcy,” where i. sloughing glands have left large sores, these may remain open for a ( long time; occasionally such chronic cases end by an attack of acute i disease. The post-mortem appearances have been well described in two recent Pnst-mortera I cases, in both of which there was the absence of nasal discharge. One appearances. ' was Dickinson’s case, and the other Poland’s, from whose paper, in ( ‘ Holmes’ Surg.,’ vol. i, I quote. The first-mentioned subject died on 1 the twenty-first day. The blood was found fluid, the muscles soft and 5 rotten, the cervical and left parotid glands suppurating, the lower part 1 of the right lung solid with grey hepatisation, its tissues completely I broken down and infiltrated with purulent fluid, and the left lung ) studded with numerous slate-coloured patches of the size of hazel 1 nuts. The second patient died on the thirteenth day. There was no affection of the lymphatic glands, but suppuration had taken place in the muscles of both calves of the legs, accompanied by local abscesses in other parts of the body, chiefly in the muscles; the joints were free from suppuration; there wei’e recent patches of lymph on the pleura, a and lobular pneumonia in the base of the upper lobe of the right lung, [• which was in a state of grey hepatisation; the lower lobes of both t lungs throughout contained smaller hepatised masses; and the liver i\ was free from disease. Billroth lays great stress on the presence of haemorrhagic abscesses .Abscess in 0 in the muscles as being characteristic of the pyaemia of glanders. muscles. In man, the poison is generally communicated through the nasal Mode of i! discharge from the horse and the discharge from farcy swellings, inoculation. / Where the inoculation takes place from the latter the disease in c man is more of the character of farcy. It can he communicated from f man to man. The poison, to be absorbed, requires, as a rule, a wound T or delicate membrane, yet cases are on record where the disease has 'j been set up by wiping of the face with unclean hands or cloths. Youatt states that the disease is not one tenth part so common as Youatt’s ; it was, and “ generally speaking, it is only found as a frequent and 'eu'arks. ■! prevalent disease where neglect and filth and want of ventilation exist.” Glanders, writes Dr. G. Milroy (‘'Trans. Epidem. Soc.,’ vol. i), is “a general as well as a propagable disease; it is extremely apt in some 1 seasons to develop itself in foul, unventilated stables.” Its develop- •' ment may, however, be controlled even to absolute prevention by the observance of simple sanitary rules. Treatment.—'To keep the machinery of life going, and to treat Treatment. I symptoms upon ordinary surgical principles, seems to be the best mode of practice, for there is no drug which has any infiuence on the disease. I Abundance of fresh air should be provided, with good but not too stimu- lating food, accompanied by tonics, such as quinine and iron; pain should be soothed by sedatives. When the nose is a source of trouble, it should