ON TKTJSSES. 691 fitted. Coles's truss is very good, is light, and has a thin metallic pad covered with leather, and acted on by spiral rings. When properly adapted with a not too convex pad, it gives elastic pressure; but is not so well calculated to retain a hernia under violent exertion as another truss with a more solid pad; the elastic pad being apt to yield and allow the hernia to descend. This objection applies to all elastic pads, although air or water pads, in some cases, are very com- fortable and valuable, particularly in the healthy aged subject. Among the trusses with solid pads that of Wood’s must be mentioned. They are made by Matthews, with fiat pads, composed of wood, ivory, or vulcanite, an india-rubber water-bag being occasionally applied to the surface of the pad. They are held in position by a spring that encircles the body. The size of the pad varies with the nature of the hernia, and the size of the hernial aperture. For oblique inguinal hernia, the pad is of an obliquely curved horseshoe shape, the outer limb over Poupart’s ligament being shorter than the inner, and the spermatic cord and pubic spine lying in the cleft. The curve of the horseshoe is placed over the inner hernial aperture. For direct inguinal or umbilical hernia, the pad is made the shape of an ovate ring with a hole, corresponding to the hernial opening in the centre. For femoral hernia, the pad is egg shape. Newsom’s truss has a thin round wire-spring and a hard pad, which is very comfortable when well adapted. The truss of Dr. C. Edwards, of Cheltenham, is good, the pad being so arranged that it may revolve as well as slide on the spring when required. That of Salt, of Birmingham, and L’Estrange’s, are also good instruments. Millikin, of St. Thomas’ Street, makes also an excellent truss with a pad, which, being moveable upon a ball-and- socket joint, is readily adapted to any case. A simple, yet a very eflScient truss has, for some time past, been made by Messrs. Krohne and Sesemann, designed by Mr. R. Rendle, late surgical registrar at Guy’s, for keeping up either a single or a double rupture. It consists of a circular steel spring covered with vulcanite, and made to fit the pelvis closely, an inch below the hip. At both ends of the spring there is a slot in which vulcanite pads slide, one for the left and another for the right side. If a hernia exists on one side only, the spring pressure on that side is made the strongest, the pad on the other side acting as a protection from rupture. Whatever truss is selected to be of use it must answer to a nicety the Tlie main purpose for which it is required. The pad should be adapted to the ol'jects of a abdominal hernial orifice or to the hernial tumour itself, and not below it. The amount of pressure applied to the pad ought to be carefully regulated as well as its direction, and enough employed to keep the pad in position under all circumstances, without causing pain. A slight force applied in the right direction being of more value than a greater misdirected. The pad may be fiat or slightly convex, and made of a solid or elastic material. Of the latter, air, water, or springs may be employed, accord- ing to the requirements of the case. Sand pads are of great value, as they can be moulded to fit more comfortably and accurately than any other. To test the value of a truss.—The patient should be made to cough To test the and strain, and, when possible, to jump. He should be placed on the ^ edge of a chair with his legs apart, or made to stoop forward with his