COENEITIS. 317 Keratitis punctata occurs in young adults, never in children; it much resembles the early stages of interstitial keratitis, and probably arises from the same cause; as a rule, one eye only is affected; there are the usual symptoms of corneitis, but the intolerance of light is not very severe; the cornea is dotted over with small greyish opacities, which are collected most thickly in its central portion, and on careful examination will be found to occupy the posterior layers of the structure. The disease is most intractable, and may be accom- panied by iritis. Corneitis with sloughing or suppuration is usually the result of sharp blows, as flicks from twigs, &c., or is caused by the irritation of foreign bodies, as the husks of corn; it may also occur after operations for catariict. Symptoms.—Those of corneitis, severe pain being, as a rule, one of the most marked; some part of the cornea will be found occupied by a collec- tion of pus, part of which may have escaped into the anterior chamber and collected at its lower part, giving rise to the condition known as “ hypopyonor the pus may have gravitated down between the layers of the cornea to its lower margin, forming a collection much resembling hypopyon and known as “ onyx.’’ Suppurative corneitis is met with in cases of neuro-paralytic ophthalmia ; a peculiar form of inflamma- tion, associated with paralysis of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, aud consequent anmsthesia of the parts supplied by it. Instead of a collection of pus, some part of the cornea may be found occupied by a dead white slough, or a large ulcerated and sloughing surface. The iris may also be inflamed and suppurating. Tbeatment.—The treatment of corneitis should be both local- and constitutional. Keratitis punctata. Suppurative corneitis. Hypopyon. Onyx. Neuro- paralytic ophthalmia. Treatment. Local treatment.—All foreign bodies or other sources of irritation Local, should be removed; the eyes must be protected from light by a large shade, protectors, or better still by a bandage. Sedative applications should be employed, noue being better than belladonna lotion, con- Belladonna taiuing from 6 to 10 gr. of e.xtract of belladonna to the ounce of water; lotiou. or, if preferred, a weak solution of atropine, gr. i to a pint of water, may be used instead ; the eyes should be bathed three or four times a day with either of these, and kept bound up with lint wetted with one or the other. If iritis exist, a stronger solution of atropine, gr. i to gr. ij or iv to the ounce of water, should be dropped into the eyes as often as may appear necessary. In corneitis with suppuration warm applications will be found most beneficial; the eye should be well bathed with warm belladonna lotion or decoction of poppies several times a day, and bound up firmly with lint, soaked in one or the other. If pain be a prominent symptom it may be greatly relieved by taking blood from the temples. Should a large area of the cornea become infiltrated with pus, a free incision Incision, should be made by transfixing with a cataract knife aud cutting out obliquely through the centre of the infiltrated portion. In cases of corneitis, especially of the interstitial and pustular forms, whei’e there is obstinate intolerance of light, which will not yield to the above treatment, a seton should he placed in the skin of Seton. the temple on one or both sides (see p. 342). In some cases the spas-