TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. 456 Ilow applied. Injection of sac. Introduction of foreign bodies into sac. Subcul a- ncons injection of cigotiu. say of five cells, be first employed, its strength being increased gradu- ally, but never to cause pain. The buttery may be used for half an hour at a time, about twice a week, yet this will depend upon its effects. The needles should be of steel gilt, sharp, very fine, and abont three inches long, and should be insulated to within half an inch of the point. They are to be introduced and removed with a rotatory motion, and may be attached to either pole of the battery. The dangers of the operation are, as stated by Holmes, principally from two causes, “the inflammatory action produced in the sac and the cellular tissue which surrounds it, and the gangrene or ulceration of the skin at the points of entrance of the needles.” Other Methods. The treatment by injection is another mode that demands notice, although hitherto it has not been satisfactory. Alcohol, tannin, acetic acid and the perchloride of iron have all been used as coagulating agents, but the last is the drug for which the most can be said. That it has a powerful influence in causing the coagulation of the blood is well known; but to produce this in the sac of an aneurism is a dangerous proceeding. The most dangerous result is embolism, and the next, inflammation and suppuration of the sac. A solution of the perchloride, diluted to one twentieth the strength of the British Phar- macopoeia solution, is strong enough, and not more than about twenty drops of the solution ought to be thrown into a large sac. The graduated glass syringe with screw piston should be employed, such as is generally used for subcutaneous injections. Care should be taken that the perforated trocar be well introduced into the cavity of the tumour, and that the afferent as w’ell as eft’erent artery be well compressed. The escape of arterial blood is the only test of the trocar having entered the sac. The fluid should then be injected, and, by manipulation, mixed with the blood. When the sac seems solid, the canula should be with- drawn, but the pressure upon the cardiac side of the sac should be maintained subsequently for a full hour, to prevent the consolidating mixture of blood and iron being sent onwards into the circulation. With objects similar to the above, the late Mr. Moore inserted twenty- six yards of iron wire into an aortic aneurism through a canula, his object being merely to detain the fibrine of the fluid blood; but the result was discouraging in the extreme. (‘ Med.-Chir. Ti ans.,’ vol. xlvii.) Dr. J. Levis, of Philadelphia, in October, 1873, inserted twenty- four feet of horsehair into a thoracic aneurism in a man aged 41, with some advantage, and on November 25th, 1873,1 adopted a like practice, introducing into the sac of a rapidly increasing popliteal aneurism due to embolism, twenty feet of horsehair through a fine canula, with the effect of causing almost complete consolidation of the tumour. The patient ivas a man, rnt. 33, admitted with ulcerative endocarditis, who survived the operation five days. The results thus obtained are quite sufficient, therefore, to justify a repetition of the operation, under circumstances in which all other plans of treatment are unjustifiable or have failed. . , In recent times Langenbeck, with the view of causing contraction of the walls of an aneurism, has been led to inject the parts surround- ing the sac with a solution of ergotin. Dr. Dutoit, of Berne, relates in ‘ Langenbeck’s Archiv ’ (Band xii. No. 3) a case , successfully adopted the practice; the man wms forty years old, and the