716 POLYPUS OP THE RECTUM. Tonics. Kitric acid. • Removal of folds. Polypus of the rectum. More frequent in children. Size. Attended \^•ith bleeding. Mode of examination. with two of glycerine is likewise a good application. Costiveness should never he allowed, enemata being used to keep the bowels empty, or the mildest laxatives, as rhubarb, castor oil, or some natural saline waters as the Pullna, or Priedrichshall. To give the bowel tone, tonics, as a rule, are required, nux vomica being probably the best, either alone or in combination with iron. I have never employed this drug in children, though some surgeons speak highly of it, as the simpler tonics usually suffice. In children, as an alterative, rhubarb, soda, and calumba mixture is to be recommended. In more severe cases of prolapse, the application of nitric acid in vertical stripes is very valuable, or, what is better, the galvanic cautery similarly applied. In bad cases, it may be necessary to remove three or four vertical folds of mucous membrane with the clamp and cautery, as for piles. Copeland suggested the practice although he removed the mucous membrane by means of the ligature; Brodie improved upon it by adopting nitric acid; and modern surgeons have still further simplified the treatment by introducing the clamp and cautery, galvanic or actual. Few opera- tions in surgery are more successful than this, and although in children it is probably never required, yet in adults it should never be rejected except for the same causes as operations for haemorrhoids. In very extreme cases of prolapse, the linear cauterisation of the prolapsed bowel may be advantageously employed. The treatment of such a case would be precisely similar to that laid down in the last section for piles. Polypus of the Eectum. This is not so rare a disease as authors would lead us to believe. In the adult it probably is a rare affection, but in the child it is tAe prin- sipal cause of hcemorrhage from the bowel, and from this fact, cases of polypus have been doubtless put down as those of piles. These growths are generally found in children under ten years of age. In hospital practice they are mostly seen in the out-patient department. They appear to be more common in male than in female subjects, since out of eighteen cases I have analysed from my note-book, fourteen were males, thirteen were in children under ten, and five in adults. These vary in size from that of a pea to a large cherry, and grow from the submucous tissue, being covered by the mucous membrane. When far beyond the reach of the sphincter and small, they probably do not cause any inconvenience, though when large, they may give rise to straining of the bowel, prolapsus recti, and even intussusception. One of the worst examples of prolapsus recti I have ever been called upon to treat, was due to the presence of a fibrous polypus situated some inches up the bowel in a man 50 years of age, who had suffered from it for twenty years. He was cured by the removal of the growth. Mr. Pollock (‘ Holmes’ Syst.,’ vol. iv, ed. 2) has given a case in which intussusception took place, and in another I have to relate the same result ensued. As they near the sphincter local irritation and haemor- rhage are produced, the growth appearing often at the anus as a pink or red cherry. Blood sometimes flows from the anus only during defeca- tion, at other times quite independently of it. When the polypus is low down, there is usually with the blood a free discharge of mucus. Whenever a child is brought with these symptoms, a local examina- tion should be made, and to do this efficiently the surgeon should sweep