CORNEITIS. 315 has not lasted more than three months a favorable prognosis may be given, but if, on the contrary, it has existed six mouths or more, recovery is very improbable. Insufficiency of the internal recti muscles gives rise to somewhat Insufficiency obscure symptoms, which have been mistaken for manifestations of cerebral disease. Patients thus affected complain that they cannot do near work for any length of time, as objects looked at become indistinct, or appear double. They suffer from giddiness, and pain in the brows and head generally. Insufficiency of the internal recti should always be sus- pected if in a case of hypermetropia relief cannot be given by the use of glasses. Teeatment.—Any anomaly of refraction should be accurately Treatment, neutralized, and the weakened muscles assisted by the use of prisms or of spherical lenses so arranged as to have a prismatic action. THE CORNEA. InflammAtion (corneitis, or keratitis).—Five different forms of in- Corneitis. flammation of the cornea are met with:—(1) Simple corneitis, (2) interstitial or parenchymatous corneitis, (3) pustular corneitis, (4) keratitis punctata, (5) corneitis with sloughing or suppuration. Sympfows.—Corneitis is characterised by watering of the eye, im- Symptoms, pairment of vision, intolerance of light, and pain, at times severe, at others insignificant; on examination more or less of the cornea will be found cloudy or quite opaque, and blood-vessels may be seen in its substance or on its surface. It is of importance to notice the course and position of the blood- Diagnosis, vessels in any case where the cornea has become vascular. Should the vessels lie altogether in the cornea, commencing near its margin, and passing for a variable distance in its substance, the case is pro- bably one of interstitial keratitis; but should the vessels be continuous with those of the conjunctiva, pass over the margin of the cornea, and lie superficially on its surface, the vascularity is probably due to me- chanical irritation from granular lids or inverted lashes, and the condition known a.s panims is present. It is very necessary that the difference between these two forms of vascularity should be recognised, as their treatment varies widely. In the former case the treatment of keratitis, to be presently de- scribed, should be adopted; in the latter treatment must be directed against the cause of the vascularity (granular lids, &c.). Simple corneitis may be caused by injuries, or the lodgment of Simple foreign bodies on the surface or in the substance of the cornea. There corneitis. is some pain, intolerance of light, and lachrymation, and some part of the cornea is found occupied by a halo of dulness. Interstitial or parenchymatous keratitis (corneo-iritis, syphilitic Interstitial keratitis, keratitis, diffuse keratitis, vascular corneitis). keratitis. Interstitial keratitis occurs in persons who are affected by hereditary syphilis; it is frequently but by no means invariably associated with changes in the teeth, pegged canines, notched incisors, or dome sliape of first molars; flattened nose, fissures around the angles of the mouth, or other manifestations of congenital syphilitic disease. It usually first makes its appearance between the fifth and eighteenth years, but has been seen as late as thirty ; it always affects both eyes