THE OPERATION OF Fig. n.-i. Elevator. TREPHINING OR FOR THE ELEVATION OF DEPRESSED BONE. Fig. 71. Showing the operation of Trephining. A. Trephine prepared for use, with centre pin down. B. Witli centre pin withdrawn, the outer table having been divided. Fig. 71b. Hey’s saw. “ Much has been written and said on the treatment of injuries to the head; and the result of modern experience and judgment has so far altered the practice of our predecessors, as to render us cautious of inflicting an additional injury on our patient for the sake of gratifying an impertinent and useless curiosity as to the exact nature and extent of the original lesion.” Thus wrote my colleague, Mr. Cock, nearly thirty years ago, and what he then said is true now, although, perhaps, surgeons at the present day are less disposed to trephiie in head injuries than they were even at that time. Statistics. At Guy’s Hospital trephining and elevation of bone for head injuries have been performed in fifty-one cases during seven years, and of ’.hese only twelve recovered. At St. Bartholomew’s Hospital it was reccrded by Callender in 1867, that the operation had not been performed fcr six years. At University College, Erichsen gives six cases of recoverj out of seventeen. Circum- operation is likely to be of use in two classes of cases; wWch^ First.—To relieve compression of the brain from depressed bone or trephining from extravasation of blood. may be of Secondly.—To prevent, check, or relieve irritation of the brain or its membranes when caused by(l) depressed and comminuted boue,by (2) in- flamed and swollen bone (whether the result of accident or disease), or by (3) an accumulation of pus between the bone and dura mater compress- ing the brain; and, it may be stated, at once that the operation of Trephining trephining gains more support from the second than from the first for depressed group of cases. bone or With respect to the first it will have been gathered from preced- extravasation chapters that depression of the bones of the skull is rarely sufficient wanted. of itself to give rise to persistent symptoms of compression; that