I EUPTUBE OF VISCERA. 605 gallic acid in ten-grain doses. The tincture of ergot in full doses is also a valuable drug under similar circumstances. Opium, however, should be given with caution. When the organ is crushed, the injury is likely to be complicated with other mischief, and, under such circumstances, peritonitis and haemorrhage, singly or combined, generally prove fatal. When the i organ is single and becomes injured, a fatal result is also likely to occur. I In page 125 of my ‘ Clinical Surgery ’ I have recorded such a case. When peritonitis exists, opium is of great value; where urinary I abscess in the loins follows, as it occasionally does, particularly in guu- , shot wounds, the surgeon must make a tree incision into it on the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle. Eupture of the ureter was first noticed by Stanley in the ‘ Med.- Ruptured Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxvii, and in the two cases he related, a fluctuating ureter, tumour formed by the effusion of urine existed in both. Poland, in the ‘ Guy’s Rep.’ for 1868, has recorded a third case; but beyond these no others are on record. Four cases of wounded ureter are, however, pub- lished by Hennen (‘ Mil. Surg.’). In all these cases it seems the ureter 1 was ruptured by stretching, its renal end having suffered; and 1 have seen two of these which occuived in the practice of my colleague Mr. Howse. The symptoms are very obscure, particularly where no external Symptoms wound exists; indeed, there are none to indicate the nature of the obscure, accident in its early stage. At a later period a lumbar tumour may appear of a cystic nature caused by the retention of the secreted urine, and there may he more or less peritonitis. When a lumbar swelling exists, tapping the cavity should be performed, the operation being repeated from time to time as the fluid re-collects, the kidney in time probably ceasing to secrete. When this treatment fails, there is little doubt that a free opening into it in the loin is the correct treat- ment. Under other circumstances, the case must be treated as all others of abdominal injury, by rest aud opium. Mr. Holmes records in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’ for 1877, vol. xlii. Wounded an interesting case of wound of the ureter which occurred in a boy mt. ureter. 13, where a clasp knife had entered his body from behind, upwards and outwards just on the right of the middle line, and about on the level of the posterior superior spine of the ilium. The wound discharged urine for two weeks and then closed, the boy recovering. Rupture of the gall-bladder has been recorded as the result of acci- Ruptured dent, and when it occurs, death is usually rapid. The accident is gad-bladder, marked by extreme collapse and pain in the seat of injury. Poland, in his ‘ Fothergillian Prize Essay,’ has given us such a case, and Dr. Fergus, in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxxi, has recorded another. In one the death occurred from collapse, aud in the other from peritonitis. Rupture of the hepatic duct may also occur. In Poland’s Fother- Ruptured gillian Essay such an instance is recorded, and occurred in a boy as the hepatic duct, result of a blow on the abdomen, the accident being quickly fatal. My friend Dr. Sutton has kindly given me the details of a second case, which took place in the London Hospital in 1867. It was in that of a man, ajt. 29, who was knocked down, aud the wheel of a spring dray passed over his stomach. He felt pain in the right hypochondriac region directly, and “ had hard work to get his breath.” Abdominal pain increased and jaundice appeared, and for a month he kept his bed.