361 OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. i s 9 li o( ) 9 I i i >1 b li 0 I i) 'I :f, II I t I; n >i a u '1 I 1 The operation should also he performed at some time previous to, or simultaneously with, small flap or linear extraction of cataract. (4) Iridectomy for artificial pupil is mentioned at another page. (5) Other conditions in which iridectomy may he required are— (a) Haemorrhage into the vitreous humour. (b) Displacement of the retina. (c) As an aid to the removal of foreign bodies from the globe. (d) Some peculiar conditions of intra-ocular circulation. Operation of iridectomy. Instruments.—A wire speculum (Fig. 97), a straight or bent iridec- tomy knife (Fig. 100a), a pair of toothed forceps (Fig. 99a), a pair of iris forceps (Fig. lOOS), iris scissors (Fig. 100c), and a curette (Fig. 103a). For the position of patient and surgeon see Fig. 94, p. 340. The patient should be brought fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, the lids kept widely open by the wire specnlum; and the eyeball fixed by seizing the conjunctiva and subconjunctival fascia near the corneal margin with the toothed forceps; then, with a straight or bent iridectomy knife of medium size an incision should be made in the sclerotic, in such a position that the knife enters the anterior chamber quite at its peripheral part, and close to the anterior surface of the iris. The knife, having entered the anterior chamber, should be pushed steadily on (care being taken to keep its point well forwards towards the cornea, so as not to wound the lens), until the point is oppo- site the centre of the pupil. The point should then be turned to one side, so as to be out of the pupillary area, and the knife slowly and gently withdrawn, the hold of the forceps being let go at the same time. The incision thus made should be of such a length as to correspond to a little more than one fourth of the circumference of the iris. Other conditions requirinic iridectomy. Operation of iridectomy. Instruments required. The next step in the operation is the removal of a portion of the Removal of iris. If, as is not unfrequently the case, the iris has become prolapsed, portion of it needs only to be seized with the forceps, and a piece of the desired size removed with the scissors. If the iris does not protrude, the iris forceps should be introduced shut, through the wound in the sclerotic. Introduction and pushed on until the extremities of their branches are opposite the of forceps, nearest portion of the pupillary margin; they should then be allowed to open of themselves, when the iris will be pushed between the branches by the pressure of the parts behind; no backward pressure must be made with the forceps, but they should be gently closed again and with- drawn, carrying the iris with them, which should then be cut across with the scissors, close to one angle of the wound, drawn over to the other angle, and a piece cut off; the curette should be passed between the lips of the wound so as to push back any portions of iris that may have become entangled in it. The eye should then be bound up with lint and a bandage. The form of the pupil after a well-per- formed iridectomy should resemble Fig. 102 D. With regard to the position of the portion of the iris to be removed. Position of opinions arc at variance. If the surgeon be a skilful and experienced portion of iris operator, and has the aid of a competent assistant, the iridectomy should be done upwards, so as to place the gap beneath the upper lid, and thus conceal it as much as possible.