228 TREATMENT OP CONCUSSION, ETC. Question of trephining. Necessity of early inter- ference. Puncturing dura mater in suppuration. Symptoms justifying such a step. Encephalitis as result of pysemia. General remarks. delirium, convulsions, and paralysis, particularly when hemiplegic, other surgical treatment may be thought ofj for if these symptoms are associated with such a history as has just been sketched, there is every probability that suppuration exists within the skull, and that surgical art may reach it. General treatment, moreover, in these cases is both unsatisfactory and unsuccessful; and, if the case be left alone, bad results always follow. Surgical interference, it is true, as a rule is not very satisfactory, though some striking examples of success exist. In the hands of Pott, trephining the skull for matter beneath the bone out- side the dura mater yielded a good result iu five out of eight cases. No modern surgeon, however, can show a like success; “indeed,” says Mr. Hewett, “ the successful issue of a case of trephining for matter between the bone and dura mater is, I believe, all but unknown to sur- geons of our own time.” Nevertheless, the operation is clearly justi- fiable under such severe circumstances as have been described; although I cannot help feeling that Mr. Hewett’s opinion is true, and that surgeons are too readily disposed in these cases of local encephalitis to wait too long, to trust too far to nature’s own processes, and by so doing, to allow the local suppurative action to spread inwards beyond the dura mater to the brain itself, when the prospect of a successful result are certainly poor. They wait for what are called well-marked brain symptoms—coma and hemiplegia—before they interfere; which well-marked symptoms too often mean fatal brain complications. Trephining the seat of injury, therefore, under such circum- stances is clearly justifiable if not hopeful, and the operation should be performed as soon as it is manifest from the history of the case that the local action is spreading. When pus is found between the bone and the dura mater great hopes may be entertained of a suc- cessful issue, although when the same suppurative action has involved the cavity of the arachnoid and the brain, the prospect is not good. Should no pus be found, however, between the bone and dura mater, is the surgeon justified in opening the membranes ? Without doubt he ought under certain circumstances, when, by the symptoms, there is strong reason to believe that pus exists beneath the injured bone; when the dura mater on exposure bulges firmly into the opening in the bone which has been made with the trephine, and if it be tense, as well as absolutely pulseless; for cases of success after this operation have been recorded by Guthrie, Roux, and Dumville. The evidence required to sanction any incision into the brain in search of suppuration, as has been already stated, must, however, be very strong; nor have I ever seen an instance in which it was justifiable. Acute encephalitis, as a result of blood-poisoning, needs only to be mentioned. It is a hopeless condition from the first, and is always associated with the worst and most general form of pyaemia. TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION AND COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN, AND OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. “ A mere crack in one of the bones of the cranium, abstractedly eon- > sidered, is not more likely to produce any serious complaints than a simple fissure in any other bone; and if symptoms of consequence do frequently attend the accident, they proceed either from the bone being beaten inwards, so as to press upon tlie brain, or from the mischief done to the parts within the skull by the same force that broke the