91 SYPETILIS. I . edges, and their corners rounded ofE (Fig. 14) ; horizontal notches ') having nothing to do with syphilis. '! " Next in value to the malformation of the teeth,” writes Hutchinson, Hutchinson’s “ are the state of the patient’s skin, the formation of his nose, and the account, contour of his forehead; the skin is almost always thick, pasty, and opaque. It also shows little pits and scars, the relics of a former eruption, and at the angles of the mouth are radiating linear scars, running out into the cheeks. The bridge of the nose is almost always broader than usual and low, often it is remarkably sunk and expanded. The forehead is usually large and protuberant in the regions of the I frontal eminences; often there is a well-marked broad depression a little above the eyebrows. The hair is usually dry and thin, and now and [ then the nails are broken and splitting into layers. Interstitial kera- i titis is pathognomonic of inherited taint, and when coincident with |i the syphilitic type of the teeth, the diagnosis is beyond a doubt.” ; In Fig. 13, every point in this description is illustrated except with I reference to the teeth, which were unusually good. I Teeatment.—To help the disappearance of the symptoms of heredi- Treatment ot tary syphilis, remedies are of great value, and in an infant showing hereditary evidence of any constitutional power, the prospects of a recovery are very good. When the child is being suckled, whether the mother shows When child symptoms or not, I administer my remedies, and have done so for many sucking, years, through the mother, giving her from six to ten, or sixteen grains of iodide of potassium with quinine, or other tonic mixture, three time a day, half an hour before the child is put to the breast, and I have been much impressed with the excellent results of the practice. When this process acts slowly I give the child in addition a grain of MercurialB. grey powder, with three or four grains of dried soda, every night. Be- fore this I administered the grey powder and soda twice a day, or rubbed in about ten grains of blue ointment every night on the soles of the child’s feet, the abdomen, or the axilla, but I much prefer the pi-actice previously laid down. In young infants the mercurial ointment may he put on the belly-band, and thus rubbed in. As the snuffles disappear, the eruption and mucous tubercles fade, and the child begins to fatten and show signs of progress. The treatment should be kept up for at least a month after the disappearance of all symptoms. The chlorate of potash treatment in some instances is doubtless Chlorate of attended with no unfavorable result, strong infants with care and potash, nursing battling through the disease and possibly eliminating it. But the weaker die, when through more active measures they might pro- bably have been saved; for many apparently hopeless victims of here- ditary syphilis become under treatment strong and healthy infants. A child with hereditary syphilis should under no circumstances he suckled by any other than the mother, for many a healthy wet nurse has been inoculated by such a criminal practice. When the mother cannot attend to the child it should he brought up by baud. Serpiginous ulceration. Serpiginous Tliis is a rare and somewhat singular form of venereal disease. It *dceration. would seeni to he more closely connected with the local suppurating non-syphilitic sore than the syphilitic, for it is rarely if ever associated with constitutional syphilis. It usually appears in the groin or thio-h after a suppurating bubo the result of a suppurating, non-syphilitic