239 MENINGOCELE. Fig. 73. the time of birth, and infants thus affected are generally hydrocephalic. The words indicate a protrusion through the skull either of the mem- branes of the brain or of the brain itself; the protrusion ap- pearing as an elastic tumour in the line of one of the sutures. Such cases are always associated with some deficiency of the hones of the skull, it may be of some portion of the frontal bone, near the root of the nose (Fig. 72) or near its external angular process, and by far the most frequently of the occipital hone. In rare examples the deficiency may he at the base of the skull. Dr. Lichtenberg has recorded a case in the ‘ Transactions of the Pathological Society,’ vol. xviii, in which the tumour was hanging out of the child’s mouth, and communicating with the skull through an opening in front of the sella turcica. In a meningocele the membranes, may protrude as a whole; but some- times the dura mater alone projects (aide Prep. 1663®®, Guy’s Museum). In the true encephalocele, the brain it- self is pressed out of the skull into the external tumour. This was well seen in a patient of Dr. Lever’s, from whom the accompanying drawing (Fig. 73) was taken; the skull contained the an- terior and part of the middle lobes of the brain and the sac the remaining portions. The ventricles were likewise divided between the two. The pos- terior lobes were adherent to the mem- branes that formed the sac. In a hydren- cephalocele, in addition to the brain substance, there will be a portion of one or both of the ventricles filled with fluid. Meningocele at root of nose. Poland’s case.) (Mr. Fig. 73. “An encepTialocele” writes Mr. P. Hewett (‘St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ vol. vi), “ is of a round or oval shape ; in size it seldom exceeds that of a small orange; its attachment is broad; the integuments covering it present little or no alteration. In the earlier periods it has the characteristics of a watery bag; hut later on, as the fluid gradually Varieties.