ALVEOLAR ABSCESS. 585 pulp chamber and the performance of rhizodontropy, coupled or not with a direct opening into the abscess to evacuate the pus, may he the right practice. In alveolar abscess of the lower jaw, a prominence passing out from any diseased tooth and obliterating the natural sulcus between gum and cheek will point to the tooth which should he extracted, and a vertical incision across the abscess track within the mouth may be ad- visable to prevent the next step in the formation of an external fis- tulous opening, namely, the distension and thinning of the skin preparatory to its perforation. In these cases warm water should be held in the mouth, and poultices should not be applied to the outside of, the face. A fistulous opening on the face, which has given exit to a continual discharge for years, will at once close up on the extraction of the tooth or buried root which has caused it, but a permanent depressed cicatrix will be left; in these cases a probe introduced from the outside will very likely impinge on something which feels rough and hard like I dead bone, but is really an exostosed and roughened tooth fang; absence of foetor in the discharge and singleness of the opening point Diagnosis, to the presence of a diseased tooth and not bone disease. Serious local Complications of Inflammatory Action set up by Tooth Disease. The disfigurement of a fistulous opening on the face, due to neglected . alveolar abscess, is comparatively common, but far more severe conipli- ! cations are sometimes but very rarely' produced by the inflammatory I involvement of surrounding structures. The seventh nerve has thus I been involved, producing facial paralysis. Necrosis of the involved I bone has led to a fatal result. Several cases are detailed by Salter in which permanent loss of sight in one eye followed antral abscess or in- flammation about the upper teeth. In one case amaurosis of thirteen months’ duration was got rid of by the extraction of a carious tooth from the end of which a splinter of wood proj ected. In the case of a Case of patient who recently came with symptoms of tumour in the orbit into dental caries Gu^s and there died. Dr. Goodhart traced the origin of mischief to caries of the first left lower molar, which gave rise to abscess, suppura- tion in the inferior dental canal, acute ostitis of left side of lower jaw, extension of disease by pterygo-maxillary fossa to orbit, suppuration in both orbits, ostitis of vault of skull, and pymniia. The spasm of the masseter which frequently attends disease about the lower back teeth is sometimes probably due to inflammatory in- volvement of the nerve, and not simply to reflex irritation. Extraction of the tooth is its cure, and the mouth may be opened sufficiently to allow of this being accomplished by the persevering use of a wedge between the teeth. Tartar or salivary calculus consists of lime salts precipitated from Salivary the oral fluids, together with “ leptothrix buccalis,” epithelial scales, calculus. &c.; it especially tends to form on the lingual surface of the lower front teeth, and on the huccal surface of upper molars; a small rim may be often found on all the teeth under the free edges of the gum, which may then present a narrow blue line or be generally congested. Brushing in the manner recommended for the prevention of decay checks its deposition. Its presence in large mass may cause ulceration