617 GASTEOTOMY AND GASTEOSTOMT. I Forster and Durham, and of two under my own care; and I am free to acknowledge that the advantages given by the operation are worth the risk, and that if life were not prolonged, it was certainly rendered more endurable. When, however, the operation is performed for a cicatricial stricture, ; better results may be expected, as proved by the records of the follow- ing interesting cases, operated upon at Rostock by Dr. Trendelenburg, March 8th, 1876 (‘ Med. Record,’ March. 1878); and in Paris by M. Verneuil (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Oct. 28th, 1876; ‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 13th, 1877). Trendelenburg’s case was in a lad who had swallowed some sulphuric Trendelen- acid six months previously, and the stricture was in the lower end of burg’s case the gullet. An incision was made parallel to and one inch below the cicatricial I left ribs, and a very small opening into the stomach. The sutures were ® *'*'^*'‘*®- passed through the whole thickness of the abdominal parietes and stomach, and a rapid recovery followed the operation. At the end of the fifth month the weight of the boy’s body had increased by one fourth. The boy took food as usual by the mouth, masticated it, and of then blew the contents of his mouth through a long elastic tube i directly from the mouth into the cavity of the stomach. Verneuil’s patient was a mason set. 17, and the stricture a cicatri- Verneuil’s ■ cial one, due to the accidental swallowing of some caustic potash on case. February 4th, 1876. OEsophagotomy was out of the question, as the stricture was situated low down in the tube, and relief was called for because swallowing was impossible. On June 26th gastrostomy con- sequently was performed, and a rapid recovery followed. The man was up and about on August 20th. A caoutchouc sound was kept in the wound for feeding purposes. In the report of the case it is stated that when food is poured into the stomach the only sensation experienced ■ is that of heat or cold. Saliva, however, is at the time freely secreted, I and the man executes masticatory movements. Digestion goes on well : without the aid of saliva. These cases are most satisfactory, and are sufficient to encourage the 1 belief that better success would follow this operation even when undertaken for cancer, if it were performed at an earlier period of ■ disease than has hitherto been the practice. We perform colotomy on a patient with cancerous stricture of the Ar^ments : intestine or other mechanical obstruction without hesitation, and <a''our. surgeons are now willing to admit the great advantages afforded by . this means. Surely the advantages offered by gastrostomy for stric- • ture of the oesophagus, cancerous or otherwise, are not less potent, and ■ should it be undertaken before the patient’s powers have been brought i to too low an ebb, there is no reason why it should not be equally effec- tive. In one of my own cases the man lived five days, and the operation had nothing to do with the death, there being no peritonitis, and the local repair was most complete. In the second case the patient lived two days. The operation has not hitherto, I believe, been successful, because it has been put off until too late; so also was colotomy unsuccessful till it was undertaken at an earlier stage of the disease. If gastrostomy has the same chance as colotomy now has, it will become as established an operation in surgery. The operation.—Chloroform had better be given, as it is important Description I that absolute quiet be maintained during the operation, although the 6ie risks of vomithig as a consequence are not slight. The patient should