37 MORTIFICATION, vasation of urine, or feces, and probably also by the action of some animal poisons. The best examples of anaemic gangrene, i.e. gangrene caused hy the Examples of cutting off of the arterial supply to apart, are found after the application a«»>nic of a ligature to a large artery, such as the femoral, for aneurism or inj ury; or after the contusion of an artery, which often, either by laceration of its inner coats {vide fig. 118) or by other means, is followed by its occlusion. Embolic plugging of an artery, the gradual closure of a vessel from local arteritis or degenerative disease, are other causes of this kind of gangrene. In the same way is caused the abscess of the brain, or rather sloughing, that follows the application of a ligature to the carotid artery. In all these instances the part dies by starvation from want of blood, and the more sudden the act by which the supply is cut ofP, the greater is the probability of gangrene being the result. The sudden occlusion of a large artery, whether in old or young, is liable to be fol- lowed by gangrene. Its gradual occlusion, except in the aged, is more rarely followed by such a result, the collateral circulation preventing it. In the form of gangrene called “ senile,” it is very probable that Senile arterial obstruction, the result of atheromatous arterial disease, or of Kangrene. embolic plugging of the vessel from the breaking loose of some portion of the diseased arterial coats, is the immediate cause of the gangrene ; but the feebleness of old age, the degeneration of the tissues that have been badly supplied with arterial blood, coupled often with some slight local injury, are doubtless powerful agents in giving effect to the pro- cess. One or more of these agents may he the true cause of the gan- grene, but in the majority of cases they are probably combined. When tlie gangrene is purely a dry withering or mummifying process, the cause is probably the simple want of blood supply; but when inflamma- tion coexists, the gangrene will be moist, the feebly nourished tissues either from injury or otherwise, becoming inflamed from some accidental cause, and ultimately dying. In the gangrene met with from arteritis or embolism in the young Gangrene or middle aged, the dry one is the usual form—the parts becoming cold, fe™ arteritis bloodless, waxy, rapidly withering, turning black and then mummify- ing. When caused by embolism, the onset of the gangrene, or rather the early indication of the plugging of the vessel, is marked by a sudden shooting or crampy pain down the extremity, this symptom being speedily followed by those of “ arterial gangrene.” When the occlusion of the vessel is gradual, this pain is not present, and the symptoms of gangrene are more chronic. Gangrene from “ cold ” may be the direct result of want of blood Gangrene supply, or may be indirectly caused by the inflammation due to exces- hom cold, sive reactionyV'oja cold: this latter form is called secondary mortification. The gangrene following the use of the “ ergot of rye ” is dry, and follows precisely the same course of gangrene as that from arterial ob- struction. The best illustrations of gangrene jfrowi obstruction—static gangrene. Gangrene as it might be called—are seen in such cases as strangulated femoral hernia; after the use of splints too tightly applied; after the prolonged ° employment of the tourniquet to check haemorrhage; in a tight para- phymosis ; in the sloughing of protruding piles ; in the gangrene of a bmb from the pressure of an aneurism or tumour upon the chief venous trunks; in the sloughing of the legs, groins, or other parts of patients