672 INGUINAL HEENIA. whom I operated on September 23rd, 1869, for strangulated hernia. The man had been ruptured for fifteen years, and had worn a truss. The hernia had descended two days before his admission into Guy’s, but the man had pushed it up by manipulation after a little trouble, though it did not go up as usual with a rush. After its reduction, vomiting appeared and local pain, and in this condition he was admitted into the hospital. When I saw him all the symptoms of strangulation were present. No hernia was down, but there was some fulness at the internal ring, and above this towards the crest of the ilium, a tense globular swelling eould be felt. This swelling I explored, and having laid open the inguinal canal I exposed the empty hernial sac (D, Fig. 281), with the testicle, showing that the hernia was of the congenital form. Fig. 281. Drawing illustrating the fourth variety or intra-parietiil lorui oi displaced hernia. A. Peritoneum lining the abdominal muscles (B). C. Intra-parietal sac with strangulated bowel. D. Scrotal hernial sac leading down to testicle (T). E. Director passed from the congenital scrotal sac through the internal ring. In the drawing the strangulated bowel has been introduced to make the description clearer. I then passed my finger into the internal ring and came against a knuckle of tense distended intestine. I enlarged the opening and this intestine at once protruded which was of a dark colour but still glistening. In following up this intention my finger passed downwards and out- wards into a distinct cavity (C, Fig. 281), filled with bowel, but which was not the abdominal cavity. It was a distinct sac, with a smooth surface, and about the size of an egg. At its upper surface, it communicated with the hernial sac, and above this, with the abdominal cavity. I then increased the orifice leading into the abdominal cavity, drew out the strangulated bowel from the intra-parietal sac (C, Fig. 281) and returned it into the abdomen. The sac was clearly placed below the internal ring and between the abdominal muscles and peri- toneum. The man died from peritonitis on the fourth day, his death allowing me to take the very excellent preparation from which Fig. 281 has been taken. The case was clearly one belonging to Mr. Birkett’s third form or my fourth, an intra-parietal sac (Fig. 281, C) existing below the internal ring. The disappearance of the tumour without the characteristic jerk and the persistence of the symptoms indicate all these forms. The treat- ment in all is the same as that described in the third form.