JH^MOBKHAGE AND ITS TKEATMENT, 425 be tied or twisted. A small opening into a large trunk may be closed Ji with a fine ligature, leaving the main canal free, as wounds of veins b heal rapidly, such as after venesection. id Injuries of the large venous trunks, however, are of grave import- 99 ance, and any wound or injury that induces, directly or indirectly, the ft complete arrest of the venous circulation through one of these, is pro- d bably of greater consequence than the wound pf an artery. The internal ra jugular vein, too, may be tied with success. i A vein is known to be opened, when black blood flows from the 01 wound in a steady stream and from its distal part, when pressure /O above the wound increases the flow and pressure below retards or i|( stops it. Phlebitis is the chief evil to be feared from an injury to a vein. Phlebitis, and when it occurs, it is very fatal. Veins, however, will doubtless bear much more manipulation than our forefathers believed, without any such danger ensuing. The entrance of air into a wounded vein is likewise a source of great Air in veins, danger; but the subject will receive attention in a succeeding chapter. The general treatment of hsemorrhage On the general is of importance, though subsidiary to the local. Wlien syncope treatment of takes place as a result of loss of blood, the surgeon should not bremorrhage. be too hasty in attempting to overcome it, as it is without doubt Syncope, one of the most valuable means which Nature employs to check bleeding and to assist natural hmmostatics; but at the same time, great care is needed that the syncope be not fatal. If such an event appears imminent, the patient should be kept in the horizontal posture with the head low; cool air should be allowed to blow upon the face, or cold water sprinkled over it; some difl’usible stimulant, such as ammonia, ether, chloroform, or the nitrate of amyl, may be inhaled, or brandy given in small quantities. In extreme cases some surgeons advise pressure being made upon the abdominal aorta or large arteries, to confine the blood to the nerve-centres; or, even transfu- sion may be employed. This operation, however, has never been in high favour with surgeons; from accoucheurs it has received considerable support, the late Dr. James Blundell having given it his energetic advocacy. When attempted it should not be delayed until too late or when the hope of rousing the nervous and circulating systems has be- come almost forlorn. Under all circumstances, plenty of bland liquid nourishment should be given, such as milk, eggs, broths, &c., and stimulants in moderation. When there is a prospect of a recurring hmmorrhage, all food should be given cold. In the convalescing stage, iron and quinine, ammonia and bark, are of the greatest value. Opium is a drug that must not be forgotten, as in the restless stage of blood- lessness its action is most beneficial. It must, however, he adminis- tered with caution, for with a feeble heart large doses are apt to depress. Half-grain doses repeated at intervals are probably the safest; larger, however, may at times be given. When capillary bleeding takes place to any extent after an operation, a full dose of opium, say a grain, is often very valuable. I When the hmmorrhagic diathesis exists, iron in full doses is of great service, the tincture of the acetate or perchloride in half-drachm doses