HARELIP. 511 I I t: i < ( 1 » II 1. < i t 1 other. When pins are employed this practice can hardly be followed. The sutures or pins may generally be removed about the second or third day at the latest, and, after their removal, the cheeks must be held forward by strapping. Mr. Maurice Collis, in 1866 (‘ Dub. Quart.’), in an able paper on Collis’s harelip, among other points laid great stress upon the propriety of sugsestions utilising the parings. He never threw away a particle of them but gperStag ° used them all. I have followed his suggestions in many cases with admirable success, and am disposed to think that where the lips are thin his method is of service. His operation is as follows:—He first made an incision from A to B (Fig. 175), throngh the thick- ness of the lip down to the mucous membrane, but not through it, and turned the flap back. On the other side, he transfixed the lip at c, and separated the flap as far as D, dividing the flap in the centre at E. He then brought the two sides together, the loose lateral flaps covering in the semi-attached one in the central bit. The npper flap 0 E was fixed by a suture to A, and the lower flap E D to B. Two intermediate sutures being applied (Fig. 176), I thus obtain, says Collis, “ a lip nearly double in depth what I could possibly have got by the ordinary incisions.” Malgaigne’s Fig. 175. Fig. 176. Fig. 177- Collis’s operation for harelip. operation is, in a measure, somewhat similar to the above, utilising as it does the flaps of skin by turning them down and stitching them to- gether (Fig. 177). In some cases, one of the pared edges may be left attached and united with the opposite side that has been sloped to receive it. This suggestion I had from Mr. Dix, of Hull, in 1859. (‘Med. Timas and Gaz.,’ July 2nd.) Double harelip.—When this is uncomplicated with bone displacement, it can be dealt with as simple harelip. In a general way it is well to operate on both sides at once, more particu- larly, if the lower flaps of the lateral portions are utilised by being turned down and united beneath the central piece (Fig. 179). If there be, however, much separation, and, consequently, traction upon the lateral portions, the operations upon the two sides should be performed separately. When the intermaxillary bones project to any extent and are sepa- rated from the maxillary, there will be some difficulty in the treatment. I believe the better plan is to remove them with the knife or scis- sors, for when broken and bent back, the central incisor teeth too often Malgaigne’s operatiou. Operation for double harelip. Malgiiigne’s operation. From Holmes. Mode of dealing with the projecting bone. 1