AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 393 reach the offending body and extract. But resort to such serious ! measures will only be called for by the most pressing symptoms, and then probably iu cases where violent unsuccessful efforts to extract have been made, as the mere presence of a foreign body in the external ■meatus rarely causes much pain or annoyance. Before attempting to remove certain bodies it is necessary to place them in a condition favorable to their removal or to allay the un- I bearable irritation caused by some of them. For example, a ball of cerumen may be so hard that no instrument will pierce it sufficiently Modes of to give the surgeon sufficient purchase upon it to extract it, or it softening may be too large to pass the isthmus of the external meatus without CoSes' ■the use of undue force. In such you are compelled to soften it by I repeated soakings in hot water or a solution of glycerine, or some . alkaline solution, before endeavouring to break it up. Again, when :some small animal has passed into the ear and its movements are I causing great annoyance by irritating the excessively sensitive tym- ; panic membrane, it is necessary to introduce tobacco smoke or water, or a little spirit and water, or oil, to kill it, and at once allay the irritation before attempts at removal are undertaken. Maggots are sometimes found in the external meatus and tym- panic cavity, especially in cases of otorrhoca, and are generally difficult to remove. Should the membrane not be perforated the syringe will suffice, but, as in the cases in which they are mostly found the mem- brane is perforated, the forceps is found more effectual. To allay the pain generally occasioned by their presence the injection of ten drops three or four times daily of a lukewarm solution of a grain of acetate of lead and a gi’aiii of acetate of morphia in an ounce of water, will be found of service. Various kinds of aspergilli are met with, especially in climates warmer than that of England; but even in England they are more common than is generally believed, judging from the cases reported in the medical journals as rarities and worthy of notice. The appearance on examining the meatus with the speculum is as if fine meal had been blown into the ear, or as if “ coal dust had been blown on to white sand.” The true diagnosis can be made certain by the microscope only. The parasi- ticides proposed are many, but warm water often used or a mixture of spirit and water will suffice in all cases. Should it be found after the removal of any foreign body that the ^tympanic membrane has changed its position, and does not of itself '1 recover its normal situation, the air-bag or catheter or the vacuum 0 speculum may be of benefit in assisting you to replace it. J A piece of wadding should be lightly inserted in the meatus after the removal of the foreign body, and kept therefor some hours, so flas to protect the irritated parts from cold, strong noises, &c. It ought to be remembered that foreign bodies in the ear may cause I many reflex actions, such as tickling in the throat, giddiness, pain and I heaviness in the head, vomiting, cough and expectoration, sneezing, i inajsthesia of side, epilepsy, &c. u Furuncles of the external meatus originate generally in one of the Furuncles. !• lair-follicles or in one of the ceruminous glands. They occur mostly •I rs the S3'mptom of some constitutional affection, in which case they "U ire associated with boils on other parts, or of some deeper local chronic fl .nflammatory lesion, and are considered in such as a favorable sign.