SYPHILIS. 86 lotlide of potassium. Compavison of mercury aud iodide. Diet. Opium. Treatment in affections of the mucous membrane. breathe it mixed with a large proportion of common air. At the expi- ration of a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes the calomel is vola- tilised and the water will have boiled away—a portion of the calomel being deposited on the patient’s body. The patient may then gradually unfasten his dress and put on his night dress, but must not wipe hie skin. If he prefers it he may go to bed with the cloak and wear it. The bath ought to be used every night, and five or ten grains evaporated. Bricheteau, Lewin, and Sigmond have employed the hypodermic injection of mercury with some success, throwing in 15 minims of a solution of corrosive sublimate, 4 grs. to the ounce of water. (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1869.) For feeble cachectic subjects, however, mercury is ill adapted, and for such the iodide of potassium in five-grain doses, gradually raised to ten, or more, will do all that is needful. In London practice it is gene- rally required to be combined with some tonic, such as bark, quinine, or iodide of iron. The combined use of mercury and iodide of potas- sium will occasionally be of great value. When the mucous tracts are involved, the addition of some alkali such as the bicarbonate of potash, in ten-grain doses, to the iodide is advisable. The addition of the compound spirit of ammonia to the bark mixture is also useful. When the symptoms begin to yield the treatment must be continued ; indeed, the effects of the drugs, whatever they may be, should be kept up for at least six months after the disappearance of all symptoms, otherwise a relapse will ensue. Comparing the effects of the two drugs together, it may be asserted that the mercurial plan of treatment is more applicable to the early than the late symptoms of syphilis; that in cases of relapses, or of a remote kind, the iodide of potassium is preferable, although under both circumstances in exceptional cases, one plan of treatment will succeed where another fails. When iodide of potassium cannot be tolerated, iodide of sodium may be substituted. During the course of syphilis the patient should live well, on simple, nutritious, but non-stimulating diet. Wine and beer should be given in moderate proportions, spirits never allowed, and smoking, as a rule, should be interdicted. When mercury is being employed the skin should be kept warm and the feet dry, all sudden chills being bad. When suppuration or ulceration exists in any form of syphilis, mercury is rarely applicable, iodide of potassium combined with tonics is then the best drug, with or without - opium. Sarsaparilla has no specific influence in syphilis; it is a pleasant vehicle, but nothing more. Opium combined with other drugs is at times of great value ; with mercury it is invaluable; it may be given in small doses whenever the nervous system has been overwrought and there is great irritability of pulse. “ The soothing qualities of this admirable medicine,” writes Pearson, “ can scarcely be estimated too highly.” In spreading ulcerations, whether due to local or to con- stitutional causes, opium is invaluable, either given alone or combined with iodide of potassium. In such cases mercury is rarely beneficial. The syphilitic affections of the mouth, tonsils, throat, tongue, &c., are expedited in their disappearance by the local application of nitrate of silver, chlorate of potash, or borax lotion, constitutional treatment being simultaneously employed.