\ I 424 HEMORRHAGE AND ITS TREATMENT. upon the surface of the wound, or a stream of cold water over it are also valuable auxiliaries. tlietreatment summary, the following conclusions may he arrived at of for the treatment of hoemorrhage from wounded vessels. hfemorrliage All arteries, whether divided or wounded, from which blood flows, wounded possible, to be twisted or tied at the seat of injury; and to vessels. accomplish this, when room is required, the wound may be enlarged. Both ends of a divided artery are to be dealt with separately. When an artery is wounded John Hunter’s advice is still sound, “First apply the tourniquet, then lay the artery sufficiently bare, and tie the vessel above and below the wounded part,” MS. Lect., 1787. Ii some cases, the vessel had better be completely divided, and its two ends twisted. I have followed this practice with the brachial oi three occasions, with good result, and advise its adoption in all arteries of less calibre. When no bleeding is present, no operation as a rule is nquired; although, in exceptional cases, this may be deviated from, as when a renewal of the haemorrhage endangers life. When moderate arterial haemorrhage exists and the arteiy cannot be taken up in the wound without an operation, the gradua;ed com- press may be employed with a fair chance of success; but .hould it fail, the vessel must be secured. When arterial haemorrhage endangers life and the artery annot he treated at the wound, the trunk of the vessel is to be seemed above the wound. When recurring haemorrhage is severe, the wound is to bereopened or enlarged, all clots turned out, and the vessel tied o' twisted. When moderate, it can be treated by elevating the part, b; pressure , over the main trunk of the vessel or the wound, and by tb applica- > tion of cold, such as the ice-bag. , At times all bleeding ceases on the mere exposure of the open wound; at others there is merely a general oozing. Undei these cir- cumstances, if exposure of the wound to the air, or to a stram of cold water fails to check it, well-applied pressure will often office. In exceptional cases, styptics may be required. Treatment of Secondary haemorrhages are to be dealt with in the wound as hffi^iTlmge. primary, that is, when bleeding is profuse, the artery is tobe re-liga- tured or twisted at the bleeding point; when not severe, b will pro- bably be restrained by pressure and the elevation of the art; as in a general way, when secondary haemorrhage takes place a:er the ap- plication of a ligature to a wounded artery, the bleeding omes from the lower end of the vessel. Guthrie has clearly shown, tht repair is less perfect in the lower end of a divided vessel than inthe upper, less contraction and retraction of the vessel, less perfect joagulation of blood, and, effusion of plastic lymph. Venous Venous haemorrhage, unless from the trunks of large vms, quickly hmmorrhage. ^.g^ggg^ usually from the collapse of the veins. Where any mpediment exists to the return of blood from the wounded part it may)rove, how- ever, troublesome, yet its arrest will probably be securedon the re- moval of the obstruction. The elevation of the wounded prt will tend much towards this end, as will also the application of dd, or firm pressure upon the spot. Division of When large veins are divided and the bleeding is copiousthey must large veins.