INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NERVES. 289 such as is expressed by the term anaemia. Many, too, have a mala- rious origin, and depend on climatic influences such as residence in a damp or wet place. Cases of neuralgia are of frequent occur- rence, and represent what would have been formerly ague, showing the influence of the miasmatic air. The disease known as “ tic douloureux” is an affection of the fifth nerve and its branches, but any nerve in the body is liable to sufter. The pain is often very intense, and recurs in paroxysms at certain hours, or, on exposure to draught or cold. Treatment.—The treatment of these cases of neuralgia must be Treatment, regulated entii-ely by their cause. When a local cause can be made Local, out, its removal is the only remedy—for example, the removal of a tooth, of a tumour, or of a bulbous extremity of a nerve. When hysteria complicates the case, or any uterine disturbance, tonics are suggested, such as iron, zinc, or quinine, and of these, full doses may be given. When malaria appears to be the cause, bark or quinine is invaluable. In local neuralgia, more particularly in sciatica, the hypo- dermic injection of morphia in one-third or half-grain doses often acts as a charm. The fluid should be injected in the course of the nerve, and in all forms of neuralgia is of value. Chloroform, belladonna, and opium, locally applied, are also valuable. Tlie general condition of General, the patient should always be attended to, and the treatment directed to its improvement. Good food, fresh air, and tonics, are ahvays essentials. Purgatives are seldom necessary, and must be regulated so as not to de- press. Stimulants, but not in excess, are of great use. In females, the condition of the uterine organs should always be carefully at- tended to. In obstinate cases of neuralgia, the division of the nerve has been Division of performed with occasional success. It is not, however, an operation in favour of which much can be said. WTien the cause of the neuralgia is peripheral, it may succeed for a time, but in these cases, spontaneous recovery is not unusual; and, when some central mischief is the source of the pain, the operation is not likely to be of service. Nevertheless, in desperate cases, the excision of a portion of the ofiending nerve is a justifiable operation; it has been of use, and may be so again. Sir J. layrer has related in the ‘Medical Times’ for 1868 a case of sciatica in a syphilitic man, set. 30, in whom swelling was detected in the nerve sheath, and pain was at once relieved by puncturing the part with a knife. Neuroma. Any tumour connected with a nerve is called a neuroma. These Neuroma, neuromata may be of a fibrous or of a fibro-cellular kind, and there is Pathology, reason to believe that they have an inflammatory origin. They may be very small, or of large dimensions, and when large, they may contain cysts. Sometiines they are developed within the nerve sheath; at others they are situated upon it. In a third class the fibrillse of the nerve trunk appear to be separated by the new tissue, or to become incor- porated with the growth. They are at times single, but more frequently multiple; and occasionally involve nearly every cerebro-spinal nerve in the body. Wilks has recorded such a case in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. X, in which, after death, neuromata were found all over the body, appearing as nodules on some nerves, and as distinct tumours on others; the nerves appeared of irregular size and were indurated, the fibrous VOL I. IQ