Oy SEPTICiEMIA.. 60 Theory of pysemia. Embolism. Arterial pyeemia. the system, and thus cause pyaemia. The poison may be imported into the general circulation through either a small or large vein, when involved in a suppurating or sloughing tissue; this is a frequent occurrence when the vein is connected with an inflamed or divided bone. It may, therefore, be fairly inferred that the milder forms of hlood poisoning such as traumatic fever are caused by the circulation of morbid elements in the hlood, which are generated either within the body or imported into it from without; and that these morbid elements are at times carried off, sometimes by the lungs, and at other times by the intes- tines : that the more severe forms of hlood poisoning, as pysemia, are caused by embolism—thrombosis, or blood extravasation, due to the admixture with the blood of some morbid fluid; and that this morbid material originates the changes which give rise to the secondary or metastatic abscesses with which surgeons and pathologists are so fami- liar. This view receives much support from the fact, that disintegrating fibrin may be carried from the heart through the arterial system into the smaller vessels of the parenchymatous organs, and give rise not only to constitutional symptoms much akin to those which have been described as being present in pyaemia, but to analogous pathological conditions. This condition is sjioken of as arterial pyaemia. Thus in the more common form of pyaemia abscesses form in the viscera or other parts ; and in “ arterial pyaemia” lobular fibrinous changes occur. In the former case secondary abscesses are found after death, in the latter secondary fibrinous deposits; it seems probable also that at times these fibrinous deposits may bi*eak down and give rise to abscesses. This arterial pyaemia is met with after ulcerative and rheumatic endocarditis; it is, doubtless, the cause of the so-called rheumatic pains that follow scarlet fever; and in rarer instances it gives rise to the embolic plugging of some large vessel, which may be followed by gangrene, or by the formation of an aneurism. I have had to remove a leg on two occasions for gangrene from embolism of the femoral artery after scarlet fever, and have seen cases of aneurism which have probably been due to the same cause. (Vide ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ 1877.) Arterial pyaemia is not necessarily fatal. Mild attacks come and go, says Wilks, “ the proof being found eventually in the cicatrices and remnants of deposits met with in the organs of the bodies of those who have died with heart disease.” The mild forms manifest themselves by pyrexia, prostration, and pains in the joints. Hence, when a patient dies rapidly from blood poisoning, the only pathological change found in the tissues may be some lobular conges- tion of the lung, indicating the first stage of pneumonia; when life has lasted longer, red or grey hepatization may be present; and in a later stage lobular suppuration; these different conditions depend- ing upon the intensity of the disease and its duration. “The first stage of the morbid condition which is produced in the viscera^ is a coagulation in the vessels, and the last stage is a suppuration.^ (Wilks.) In feeble patients who have no resisting power against disease, it is possible that even these pathological conditions may not be found; life being, as it were, suddenly destroyed in the first onset of the blood- ■poisoning. Under these circumstances no definite post-mortem