587 EXTRACTION OP TEETH. The painful “ ulcerative stomatitis,” so frequently met with in Ulcerative hospital practice among young children, often demands the extraction stomatitis, of loosened and irritating teeth, coupled with the internal administra- tion of its specific remedy, “ chlorate of potash.” The Extraction of Teeth. Speaking generally, extraction may be required for regulation of Extraction, teeth, which includes the prevention of overcrowding. To prevent or wlien get red of impaction of a wisdom or other tooth. For neuralgia and f®9ahred. nerve irritation when its origin in a tooth is not confined to some con- dition of the pulp which can otherwise be got rid of. As a rule, in cases where periodontitis (not rheumatic) is established and resists curative treatment. When an alveolar abscess tends towards opening externally. In cases of vertical fracture of the tooth. In the case of loose and diseased teeth or roots which keep up an unhealthy condition of the mouth. When an epulis has probable connection with alveolo- dental membrane. And, finally, in some cases to allow of more satis- factory artificial restoration. Foi'ceps and Elevators are the instruments now used for the extrac- Instruments tion of teeth. The forceps adapted for the removal of the different teeth will be found described in ‘ Tomes’s Dental Surgery,’ and only a few special points will he here noticed with regard to them and their use. Forceps should be finely made and well tempered, with blades which should grasp the tooth’s neck without pressing on the crown, ns extraction is seldom required for sound teeth, but for those that are broken down or hollowed out by decay. In extracting a tooth the forceps should be applied lightly but closely to its neck and then sent firmly up (or down, as the case may be) until they grasp a part of the tooth that will resist some pressure; the edges of the blades will thus, as a rule, be made to pass just within the edges of the socket, while in the case of the molars the points of the blades will take grip at the bifurcation of the roots; the right hold being obtained by this first movement, the instru- ment is thenceforth kept at one with the • tooth, which is first sepa- rated by a particular movement from its socket attachments and then withdrawn. The accompanying drawing. Fig. 246, shows the manner of holding Manner of forceps. The little finger may be used as a kind of opening spring, and the thumb should act as a stop between the handles and prevent any crushing pressui’e. The particular movement required for the dislodgment of a tooth depends on the shape of its root. Thus, the upper incisors and canines, together with the lower bicuspids, are more or less conical, and are Particular therefore to be rotated, while the lower incisors and canines, together movements with the upper biscupids, are more or less flattened from side to side, and therefore are to be moved outwards and inwards. The several teeth, molar teeth are also to be moved outwards and inwards before being extracted. Fig. 216. Manner of holding forceps.