MALFORMATIONS OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 693 CHAPTER XVI. SURGERY OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. (Malformations.) The anus and rectum are not rarely the seat of congenital malforma- Varieties of tions, and these show themselves in a variety of forms. In one class of cases the anus is completely closed, tlie rectum being either rectum, partially or wholly deficient; in a second the anus exists in its normal condition, but opens into a cul-de-sac, the rectum being partially or wholly deficient (Fig. 286); and in a third the anal orifice is absent, the rectum opening into the bladder, urethra, vagina, or other abnormal position. And, it will be observed, says Mr. Curling, to whom we are indebted for the hulk of our information on this subject (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xliii), that the classification of these imper- fections is founded on states that can generally be recognised during life; although, unfortunately, the conditions of the terminal portion of the intestinal canal, and its relation to the parts around, cannot be predicted with any certainty; since in cases of imperforate anus, or of anus opening into a cul-de-sac, the intestinal canal may terminate in a blind pouch at the brim of the pelvis, the rectum being wholly wanting j or, an imperfect rectum may form and show itself as a short sac descend- ing to the fioor of the pelvis, or to the neck of the bladder in the male, or commencement of the vagina in the female. An explanation of these different conditions is to be found in the fact, that these mal- formations are clearly due to some failure in the foetal development and to the want of junction of the two ends of the rectal tube; for the anal portion of the bowel developing from below, grows upwards, while the intestinal descends from above. The two parts subsequently advance, and, in a natural condition, unite, the membranous diaphragm at the point of Fm. 286. their junction, at a later period, disappearing by interstitial absorption. When a failure in this uniting process takes place, the second class of congenital imperfection is formed; when the failure occurs at an early period of develop- ment, tlie two ends of the approaching tubes will be far distant, and, when at a later period, they may be in closer contact. The closure of the anal orifice is due to a firm adhesion of the in- tegument. Sometimes the blind pouch in which the in- testinal canal terminates is connected with the anal integument, or with the anal cul-de-sac, by a cord prolonged from the bowel above, and it seems possible, from Curling’s and MM. Goy- rand and Friedberg’s observations, that such cases are caused by an obliteration of the bowel which was originally well formed, from some intra-uterine infiammatory action; in- stances being on record where the muscular tissue of the intestine was clearly traced into the cord. Where the Lnal cul-de- sac. Showing the iutestine ending as a cul-de-sac above the anus. Prep. 188275, Guy’s Hosp. Mus.