OPHTHALMIA. 313 swollen, red, and sometimes everted lids. The conjunctiva is bright scarlet, traversed by large distended blood-vessels, and mucb swollen, especially the ocular portion (chemosis), which may overlap the cornea Chemosis. and protrude in folds between the lids ; there is pain and intolerance of light; and there may be much depression, especially if the attack have lasted long. The patient may be suffering from gonorrhoea. The great danger to be feared in purulent ophthalmia is implication of the implication cornea, which may be partially or entirely destroyed by suppuration of cornea, or sloughing. Teeatment.—In all cases the patients themselves or their parents Treatment, should be warned of the contagious nature of the disease, and if one eye only be affected the greatest care should be taken to protect the other. If possible, a good view of the cornea should be obtained, as its condition materially influences the prognosis with regard to sight. The examination should be made with care, as the cornea may be ruptured whilst making it. In ophthalmia neonatorum the only treatment required is to wash out the eyes every hour or half hour with strong alum lotion (see p. 309) until the discharge is lessened; the lotion need only be used thus frequently for twelve hours out of twenty-four (from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.), the child being allowed to sleep at night; as the discharge gets less the lotion may be used less frequently. Some simple ointment should be applied to the margins of the lids once or twice a day to keep them from sticking together. Slight cases of purulent ophthalmia in older persons may be treated in the same manner, but the more severe forms (especially the gonorrhccal) require that much more energetic measures be taken. The treatment should be both local and constitutional. Local treatment.—When the patient is first seen the lids should Application be everted, and the whole conjunctiva brushed over with a stick solid nitrate of silver, or painted with a solution of 40 to 60 grains of the salt to Jj of water; the application should be repeated in the course of two or three days if no improvement have taken place. The patient should be kept lying down in a dark room, and a bag of ice, or lint kept wetted with iced water, applied over the closed lids; the ice or lint should be removed and the eyes washed out every hour or half hour with some astringent lotion, the greatest cleanliness being observed. Should there be much pain, and the patient be strong, blood may be Abstraction taken from the temples by leeches or the application of the artificial leech, but, as before stated, most patients suffering from severe purulent ophthalmia are much depressed and will not bear depletion. Constitutional treatment.—The free administration of tonics, es- Constitn- pecially iron and quinine, with good living, and a fair amount of tional treat- stimulants. ment. If perforation of the cornea threaten or have taken place, the eye should be kept firmly bandaged, so as to prevent as much as possible any escape of the contents of the globe. Diphtheritic ophthalmia.—This form of ophthalmia is but rarely met Diphtheritic with in London ; it affects persons of all ages. At first sight the case opluhalmia. appears to be one of severe purulent ophthalmia; its chief charac- teristic, however, is a solid infiltration of the substance of the con- junctiva, with or without the formation of diphtheritic membranes on