237 DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND CKANIITM. DISEASES OP THE SCALP AND CRANIUM. Besides the blood tumours of the scalp to which attention has been already directed, the head is very frequently the seat of the common skin or sebaceous tumour which is called a “ wen,” these morbid growths indeed, are more frequently found on the head than on any other part of the body. They are more common also in women than in Wens or men, seventy out of one hundred and seven consecutive cases of seba- ceous cysts which I have analysed having occurred in women and eighty- th™acalp? four on the head. In many instances these wens are doubtless due to an obstruction of the duct of a sebaceous follicle, as the orifice of the duct is often visible, and through it the contents of the cyst can be squeezed; while ill others no such obstruction can be made out, it being probable that some of these tumours are new formations—true adenoid tumours of the skin, when the tumour lies beneath the skin, but has no connection with it. In congenital sebaceous tumours, this position is very common, although perhaps the cyst is more frequently situated beneath the fascia, or even beneath the muscles, of the part. When about the orbit—their most common seat—these cysts are always deeply placed, and often have close connection with the periosteum. They, moreover, almost always contain hair. By their pressure upon the bone they at times cause its absorption and perforation. The contents of these cysts vary; in some the secretion is milky, in others more solid and cheesy; and in a third the contents are cretaceous. When de- generating, they may be filled with a blood-stained blackish fluid, and at times are most offensive, having a peculiar sour smell. In neglected examples of this disease the contents of the tumour may Ulcerating soften down, and, causing suppuration, escape externally by ulceration, follicular From the inner surface of these evacuated cysts a new growth may spring up of a peculiar nature; aud this, forming an irregular, fun- gating, bleeding surface, at times puts on an appearance which has been mistaken for cancer. On examining the edges of the wound, how- Simulates ever, such a mistake can hardly be persisted in, for it will be at once cancer, observed that the edges of the wound are healthy and not iuflltrated with new matter, as would bo the case in cancer—this irregular fun- gating growth consisting of exuberant granulations from the cyst itself. Abernethy described these growths years ago, but in more modern times the best account is given by Mr. Cock, in ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1852. In other caseS, again, a horny growth springs up from the interior of the cyst. I have removed one of twenty-one j'ears’ growth (Fig. 17, p. 106) from the head of a man mt. 70, upon which were wens of dif- ferent sizes. Treatment.—The only correct treatment of these cysts, whether Treatment, whole or broken, is their removal by excision; and in doing this it is needless to be too careful to dissect the cyst out entire; the most expe- ditious method is to slit open the tumour with a bistoury, aud turn it out with the forceps or handle of a knife. This plan is rapid and effective, and far superior to the older and unnecessary one of a steady dissection. In some cases of long standing, however, dissection is re- quired. In children, the cysts may frequently be squeezed out of their bed by the thumb and finger. It is common to hear of the danger of erysipelas after these excisions, Erysipelas, but such a fear is groundless. The excision of the congenital tumour