CONTUSIONS. 143 wheal that rises after a lash with a whip is the best illustration of this fact. A severe contusion may cause a rupture of a large artery or vein, Eupture of under which circumstances a fatal extravasation may ensue; or, it may so crush or pulp the tissues as to destroy their vitality; which a spent cannon-ball may accomplish. More frequently, however, a severe contusion causes a separation of the skin from the deep fascia and parts beneath, with more or less extravasation of blood into the split tissues. The effects of a contusion also vary accord- ing to locality; thus, in an adult a blow over the scalp may be followed by a local effusion of blood, and in a child this effusion may go on so as to form a swelling involving more or less o^the whole vertex. In the buttocks and loins blood may be so effused as to give rise to a large fluctuating tumour. In the loose cellular tissue of the scrotum an effusion of blood may give rise to enormous enlargement, and in the eye every one is familiar with the change. Where the ex- travasation of blood has been extensive, the removal of the clot is a work of time. In some cases the blood remains fluid for a long period, and at length becomes absorbed; in some it breaks down, and gives rise to suppuration. In exceptional instances it becomes apparently encysted, and “ there is suflicient reason to believe,” says Paget, “ that blood extravasated in a contusion may be organised, requiring the character of connective tissue, becoming vascular, and taking part in the repair of the injured tissues.” These changes are seen in the repair of fractures, and in ligatured or twisted vessels. In some cases, in which a large blood tumour formed, aud a solid coagulum existed, the clot suddenly softens down, and is then absorbed. In March, 1876, this was well illustrated in the case of a boy, mt. 12, who was under my care in Guy’s Hospital, with an enormous blood tumour in the gluteal region. Teeatment.—A slight bruise requires no treatment, and if left alone Treatment of will get well, for blood is often rapidly absorbed, as is seen in the eye. contusions. To check extravasation, cold is the best application in the form of pounded ice in a hag, or a mixture of salt and saltpetre, or the iced poultice.t Should any disposition to inflame appear, some lead or spirit lotion may he used. To hasten on the absorption of the efi’used blood, tonics are often of service, and the application of gentle pressure by means of bandages or strappings. A lotion of the tincture of arnica, one ounce to a pint of water, seems to have some influence in hastening the absorption of blood. Some of the stimulating liniments, such as the soap or opium, may likewise he employed. In more severe and extensive effusion of blood, when the circu- Local lation in the part is interfered with, cotton wool or lint soaked stimulants, in oil and covered with cotton wool are the best dressings; by t Ice poultices, as suggested by Maissoneuve, are excellent for the local appli- cation ot cold, and arc made as follows :—Take of linseed meal a sufficient quantity to form a layer from three quarters to an inch thick, spread a cloth of proper size; upon this at intervals of an inch or more, place lumps of tee of a convenient size—of a big marble—then sprinkle them over lightly with the meal, cover with another cloth, folding in the edges to prevent the escape of the mass, and apply the thick side to the surface of wound. The exclusion of air retards the melting of the ice and the thick layer intervening between it aud the surface prevents painful or injurious contact, lu injuries to the abdomen this remedy is very applicable. Dr. W. H. Boughtv. of the U. 8. A., speaks highly of it. Circular No. S. ^