196 OPERATIVE INTERFERENCE IN THYROIDAL TUMOURS. On removal of tliyroidal tumours. Ligature of thyroid arteries. Setons. Greene’s cases of eiccision. Dangers of the operation Steps in tlie operation of removal of thyroid tumours. down. The Guy’s Hosp. Mus. contains four preparations of this disease. Operative interference in thyroidal tumours. Many operative proceedings have been suggested and adopted for goitre and thyroidal tumours. Sir W. Blizard, Earle, and Coates (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. x) tied the superior thyroid arteries, with the view of starving the disease, and Coates’s attempt was attended with success, but the operation is necessarily a severe one, and the free arterial supply from the inferior thyroid ai'teries tends to neu- tralise its good. At the present day it is properly discarded. Setons have likewise been used with good success for this affection, and deserve a more extended trial. Excision, however, is probably the only operation that is worthy of consideration when any operative measure at all is to be entertained. It need hardly be stated, that no surgeon would ven- ture to recommend the removal of a thyroid gland or tumour, unless life was jeopardised from its growth, and less severe measures had failed or were inapplicable; only under such circumstances is the at- tempt justifiable. That it cau be done successfully has been proved by Dr. W. Warren Greene, of Maine; and in the ‘ American Journal of Medical Sciences’ for January, 1871, two such cases are recorded. Mr. Poland’s case, already referred to, is another in point, and more recently that of Dr. P. H. Watson. Haemorrhage is the chief danger to be dreaded in the operation, but if the fingers be well used to enucleate the growth, without dividing or cutting into its capsule, and if the pedicle containing the vessels which supply it be rapidly reached and ligatured, bleeding may be disregarded. As an extra point of caution it appears to be a sound practice to ligature before cutting all parts that require division in the same way as does the surgeon iu ovarian cases, and for the same reason. Should the tumour turn out to be an adenoid growth, in or connected with the gland, as in Poland’s case, it may be removed with comparative facility, and should it be an enlarged gland simply', even a pound and a half in weight, success may follow, as was proved by Greene’s and Watson’s cases. Indeed, I cannot do better than give the several steps of the operation in Dr. Greene’s own words; “1st. Exposure of the tumour by linear incision of ample length, avoiding most sedulously any wounding of the tumour or its fascia propria. 2nd. Divi.sion of the fascia propria upon the director. 3rd. The reflexion and the enucleation of the tumour with the fiuo-ers and handle of the scalpel, paying no attention to haemorrhage however profuse, but going on as rapidly' as possible to the base of the gland, and compressing the thyroid arteries. 4th. Transfixion of the pedicle, from below upwards, with a blunt curved needle, armed with a double ligature, and tying each half, or, when practicable, dividing the pedicle into as many portions as there are main arterial trunks, and tying each portion separately. 5th. Excision of the gland, and subsequent dressing of the wound, as in ordinary cases.” Dr. P. Heron Watson, in an interesting paper on the operation (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept., 1873), strongly advises that “ the investing fascial sheath of the thyroid should be left undivided until the mediate