506 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VEINS. self that no malposition of the artery exists, as many cases are on record where a superficial artery has been opened for a vein. The vessel then having been se- lected, the surgeon should stand in front of the extended arm and hold it with his left hand, the thumb being fixed on the vein below the spot which is to be opened. With his right hand, an oblique incision, not a puncture, should be made through the skin into the vein, describing with the lancet a semicircular movement. The bleeding basin having been brought close to the arm, the surgeon’s left thumb may be removed, and the stream of blood allowed to flow. If this be feeble, the patient may be asked to grasp a stick and put the muscles of the forearm well into action. The required amount of blood having been withdrawn, the tape can be removed, the left thumb of the operator being applied to the wound, and the parts cleansed. A pad of lint is then to he placed over the incision, its edges kept well in contact, the thumb being slipped down- wards to allow of the adjustment of the pad, which is to be fixed by a figure-of-8 bandage (Fig. 164). The arm should then be slightly bent, care being taken that the pad does not slip during this process. On the second or third day, the pad may be removed, the wound having probably healed by that time. Opening the external jugular vein is sometimes called for, particu- larly when venesection is required in a child, and that part of the vein whei’e it passes over the sterno-mastoid muscle should be selected. The vein can be steadied and rendered prominent by the left thumb of the surgeon applied at the root of the neck above the clavicle, or this may be done by means of a pad. It then is to be opened with the lancet by an incision made in the course of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and consequently across the platysma. Blood will then flow freely ; and when enough has been taken the wound should he closed by means of a pad carefully adjusted. The thumb, which hitherto has been acting as a compress, may then be removed. The pad should be fixed by good strapping. In both these operations of venesection, if the wound in the skin be made smaller than that in the vein, or the position of the arm be changed, a blood tumour or thrombus may form from the escape of blood beneath the integument; and if this interferes with the flow of blood, instead of reintroducing the lancet, the best practice is to Fiq. 164. After veuesection.—From Heath.