113 TUMOTJES. recorded such an instance in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1855, and De 1 Morgan in the ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xx. I The section of a cartilaginous tumour is fairly characteristic (Fig. Appearance 21). It cuts crisply and presents a smooth surface; it may appear of one I mass, or made up of many lobules. In some cases the consistence of the tumour is close, and is composed of translucent or bluish masses of foetal cartilage, as is best seen in the periosteal forms. In others it is loose and granular, as in those expanding the bones. In many of them fibrous or glandular tissue is intimately mi.xed with the struc- ture of the tumour, the parotid tumour affording the best type of this kind. In the cartilaginous tumours of bone, bone elements are always present; in those of periosteum, fibrous elements; and where glands are involved, glandular structure. When cartilaginous tumours soften down cysts are found, usually containing a dirty brown serous fluid, or simply filled with broken-down tissue and pus, or with a more tenacious synovial kind of fluid. Microscopically, cartilaginous tumours present diverse forms, simple Under the foetal cartilage-cells, embedded in some cases in a hyaline or in a granu- microscope, lar matrix, in others in a fibrous or glandular stroma, or even both in different parts of the same growth. The most typical form is that in which the cartilage-cells are grouped together in masses, surrounded by fibre tissue. From this type great de\uations occur, the cells being, more or less, scattered between the fibres. In some instances the nuclei of the cells are free and numerous, in others they are filled with granules or oil-globules, apparently degenerating. Occasionally, the cartilage-cells are developing, and take on the mature form of bone- cells (Fig. 28). Treatment.—The removal of the cartilaginous growth is the only Treatment, efficient treatment, hut the practice must be determined by the posi- tion of the growth and all the other points with which the tumour is clinically surrounded. When removed, a return rarely takes place. Cases, however, are on record (the Guy’s Museum containing a few), in which a return ensued after a second or third excision, hut such instances are exceptional. The cartilaginous tumours of bone will be considered under the head of Diseases of Bone. Osseous tumours naturally come to he dealt with after the carti- Osseous laginous, for the two elements are usually combined; and, as in the tumours, enchoudromata, traces of bone may be found, so in the osseous tumours traces of cartilage may exist. These are found in two forms, the cancellous bony and the compact Two forms. bony tumour, better known under the name of ivory exostosis. The Ivory, atter growth is peculiar to the bones of the skull. Ihe cancellous is almost always developed through cartilage, and CanceUous. made up of tissue precisely similar to the cancellous tissue of bone. In lome cases it is covered with a thin casing of compact bone, like the mrtilaginous tumour growing within a bone, but in most it is covered vith a layer of cartilage, by the ossification of which it grows. A liagram illustrating these points will be found in the chapter dealing yith exostosis, and the clinical aspect of the subject will he again con- idered in the chapter on Tumours of Bone. Myeloid tumours are, as primary growths, always found associated Mveloid vith bone, either growing from the bone, as in “ epulis,” or more com- tumour. VOL. I, o