263 CONCUSSION OP THE SPINE. moreover itis the knowledge that they may take place which renders any spinal injury a matter of importance, both as regards the immediate effects of the injury and its secondary consequences. In rare instances, symptoms similar to tetanus follow spinal injury. I Tetanus after have seen such iu two cases. One was that of a man, set. 35, who fell from spinal a height on his head, bending the neck forward. He was paralysed for ' a few hours from the neck downwards, and, on the appearance of re- action, had marked tetanic symptoms with the contracted brow and risus sardonicus. Spasms could he excited on the slightest touch being applied to his neck. In twelve hours, however, all these symptoms disappeared, and recovery ensued. In the second case, a man received a crush in the loins, between two carts. Lo?k-jaw followed, with general spasms of all the muscles of the body. In five hours the spasms subsided, but they were followed for five days by hyperaesthesia of the integument, and, on the sixth day, by weakneffl of one leg. In a month he was convalescent. In forme’chapters it was shown that the functions of the brain may Analogy for a time be interfered with or suspended by a simple shake or con- between cussion of its substance; that a severe concussion may give rise to contusion oi the brain, either at the seat of injury or on tlie opposite injuries, side by contie-coup; that extravasation of blood either upon the surface of the braiu »r within its structure may follow such an injury; that frac- tures of the ikull are of importance in proportion to the severity of the intra-cranialcomplications; and that intra-cephalic inflammation is too frequently the result of any head injury. In injuries to the spinal column and ts contents similar results have to be recorded. A simple concussion o; the spine may produce a partial or complete suspension Simple of the funefons of the cord; yet by rest and quiet these symptoms concussion, may disappar, and a perfect recovery follow. A more severe con- Severe cussion may five rise to some injury of the nervous structure; to some coucussiou. extravasatioi of blood upon or into the cord itself. Such a complica- tion will necessarily be associated with more marked symptoms, more complete am persistent paralysis and anesthesia of that portion of the body suppliel with nerves from the injured centre; the completeness and persisteicy of the paralysis and anesthesia depending upon the severity of tie mischief, and, on the seat of injury. When the paralysis Complete or is severe hwiincomplete, there will be retention of urine, this symptom incomplete arising fromthe loss of voluntary power over the muscles that regulate P^^'y^is. micturition. But, when the paralysis and anajsthesia are complete, there will bexbsolute paralpis of the bladder and all its muscles, with incontinenceof urine. This incontinence, however, must not be confused with the driHfiing of an over-distended viscus from retention, such as occasionally ccurs in the less severe cases. When theiujury is in the cervical region, one or both arms may be Symptoms more or lessparalysed; when in the lower dorsal, one or both legs; according to but, as a rul, the paralysis is symmetrical and the symptoms depend Sred. on the neres that are involved. The loss of sensation is akso generally coiplete. In one case, however, there may be paralysis of one limb anc loss of sensation of the other; in a second, exalted sensi- bility with pralysis. In one, the power of motion may be regained while that ofeensation remains lost, and in another the reverse; indeed' on these poits there is every possible variety, the seat of injury clearly determiningthe nature of the paralysis. ^