I AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 395 I i matic, and syphilitic diatheses, though their connection with this last Ji diathesis is not well established. They are certainly frequent in the h meatus of good livers, who are likely to have their mucous membranes If) frequently congested. On looking into the meatus an elevation is seen, 3 generally about the middle third, the skin over which is reddened and a moist, and pressure on which by the sound causes pain. il’ The treatment is not satisfactory, unless the exostosis has a pedicle. Treatment. ii in which case it may be broken off. In other cases, having paid at- i; tention to any affection causing congestion of the mucous membrane of I the tympanic cavity, the application of iodine to the growth itself, f and behind the ear, so as to keep up a slight counter-irritation for a ij lengthened time, and the exhibition of it internally, offer the best hopes 9f of resolution. Should, however, the exostosis prevent the exit of pus i| from the parts internal to it, the formation of a channel by a hammer and chisel, trephine, dentists’ drill, or electrolysis, and the maintaining 4 of it by tents, may be imperative for the purpose of keeping the parts clean and the application of medicaments to the parts beyond. Hyperostosis of the bony meatus is seen after a chronic otorrhcea and Hyperostosis, generally extends through the whole of the bony canal. It is caused by inflammatiou of the periosteum, which results in a well-developed bony formation. The skin along the narrowed portion of the canal is more or less congested. The treatment is that of exostosis. Molluscous tumours of the meatus consist of accumulated laminm of Molluscous epiderra is aud sebaceous matter, enveloped in a thick membrane. Though tumours, thus composed of comparatively innocuous material, they have the power »| of causiugabsorption of the bone lying in contact with it, passing through it by a clean cut aperture without affecting the bony sides of the canal thus caused, and so pursuing their course pass to aud press on the parts beyond, causing symptoms varying according to the parts implicated. The diagnosis of this molluscous tumour from exostosis is made by press- ing a probe on the skin over the tumour, aud noting the hardness of the enlargement. Laying open the tumour, washing out the accumulated epidermis by the syringe, aud withdrawung by the forceps the lining membrane, is the treatment recommended. Syphilitic affections of the meatus occur as fissures and ulcerations Syphilitic : near the orifice, condylomata, and exostoses. The ulcerations exhibit affections of the usual punched-out irregular contour and discharging surface. The E treatmeut is the usual, general aud local. 1 Inflammation of the external auditory meatus, or ostitis externa, is an otitis I inflammatory afi'ection of the cutaneous tissues of that canal, involving externa. 1 more or less, according to the violence of the attack, the periosteum of I the osseous part of the canal aud the membrana tympaui. The patient Symptoms. I complains of a continual itching sensation, with a feeling of heat and dryness, in the canal, which compel him to pass any suitable instrument which may be at hand into the meatus for the purpose of scratching the part implicated. This irritation may pass off without forcing the patient to seek advice, or it may pass on to one of pain shooting over all the affected side of the head, increased by every motion of the head, or by mastication, and accompanied by a feeling of fulness in the ear, by fever and deafness. After this congested state has lasted for two or throe days that of exudation enters, at first as a bright watery discharge, which gradually assumes a mucous character, and this in its turn gives way to a yellow pm-ulent appearance. The pain, which till how has