656 ABDOMINAL HERNIA, Slougliiug of bowel. Statistics of artificial auus. Stricture of small intes- tine after liernia. Fluid in hernial sac. neck of the sac, if not adherent to it, with more or less matting together of the neighbouring coils. That this peritonitis is to he directly attributed to the strangulation of the intestine is generally acknowledged, few cases of strangulated hernia remaining long unrelieved without local or general peritonitis making its appearance. It is also indisputable that this perito- nitis is often aggravated, and at times caused by the reduction of the inflamed and injured contents of the hernial sac into the abdominal cavity; but to assert with Mr. Hutchinson and M. Girard, that in the bulk of cases it is the return of the intestine into the abdomen that gives rise to the peritonitis, is an assumption which facts hitherto known do not bear out. When the intestine has sloughed wholly or in part and discharged itself through the wound, an artificial anus is said to exist. This result is far more common after femoral than inguinal hernia. Wlien the bowel subsequently ulcerates after its reduction, either at the line of stricture as it may in inguinal hernia, or, at the centre of the knuckle as is the more common in femoral hernia, extravasation of faeces may take place, half of these cases of extravasation being either general into the peritoneal cavity and fatal, or local about the neck of the sac. The following facts, published by me in ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1856, on the causes of death in hernia, will tend to prove these points. Out of 17 cases of artificial anus after hernia, 13 were femoral, 3 inguinal, and 1 umbilical. Out of 15 cases of gangrenous bowel, 11 were femoral, 4 inguinal. Hence, out of 32 cases of gangrenous bowel, 24 were femoral, 7 inguinal, and 1 umbilical, clearly proving that gan- grene of the intestine and artificial anus are more common after femoral than inguinal hernia. Of 15 cases of hernia in which the strangulated bowel was found perforated, 10 were femoral and 5 inguinal; in 4 the perforation was at the line of stricture, all being inguinal; in 11 the perforation was in the centre of the knuckle, 10 being femoral. In 8 of these 15 cases extravasation of faeces was prevented by inflammatory exuda- tion sealing the aperture. In 7 it existed, but in 5 only of these was it general; in the other 2 it was local. Of these 7 cases, in 2 the taxis was the direct cause, in 1 gangrene, both being cases of femoral hernia; in 4 ulceration at the line of stricture was the cause, all being inguinal. From these facts it is evident “ that ulceration in the line of stricture with fcecal extravasation is more frequent in inguinal than in femoral hernia, and that when it is found in the latter, it is generally from rupture of the howel from forcible taxis.” As a result of a strangulated hernia, I must mention a stricture of the intestine due to contraction of the bowel that had been strangulated. A unique example of which took place in my practice in 1870 in a woman, set. 52, upon whom I had opei-ated for strangulated femoral hernia of thirty hours’ duration, without opening the sac. Conva- lescence followed the operation, but about the seventh week vomiting appeared, and death took place in the eleventh week from intestinal obstruction. After death a complete stricture of a knuckle of bowel was found (fig. 274). The fluid found in the hernial sac varies according to the condition V