OBTUEATOE HEENIA, 684 Autopsy. in the left side of the abdomen, which was increased on passing a motion. The bowels were confined and the faeces small. She had now a double femoral reducible rupture. Her abdomen was natural, and a rectal examination showed nothing abnormal. She was placed under the influence of opium, when the sickness ceased and the bowels acted. On January 6th, however, the symptoms returned. She was again sick, and had much pain in the left side of the abdomen, while the temperature rose to 101° F. From that time she gradually sank. The bowels were not again relieved, the abdomen became tympanitic, and the vomiting only ceased a few days before death, which took place on February 4tb, with increasing exhaustion. She had at no time anything like obturator pain, and though all the regions of hernia were carefully examined, nothing was noticed to suggest the disease. Autopsy by Dr. Goodhart.—The body was very emaciated; there was no marked distension of the abdomen ; the peritoneum was injected all over. A little pus was smeared over the coils in the neighbourhood of the cajcum, aud in the pelvis, two ounces of pus or more had gravitated to the bottom of Douglas’s pouch. No evident source of the pus could be discovered, though it is probable that it arose from peritonitis, due to over-distension of the bowel. The small intestine was only moderately distended, but crammed with pultaceous, yellow, faecal contents, and the coats were somewhat thickened. Following it downwards, the distension continued till two feet from the caecum, where a piece of the bowel passed through the left obturator foramen. (Fig. 284.) Below this, the intestine was very contracted. The aperture in the obturator foramen was not large, aud the intestine did not appear to be nipped in any way. A knuckle of bowel was in the sac, but the passage onward would not allow of the introduction of the little finger. The bowel was intimately adherent to the sac through- out, so that on opening the latter the bowel was wounded. The in- cluded bowel was greyish, but neither gangrenous nor inflamed. The mesentery was somewhat thickened at its neck, and within the bowel were some old ulcerations, as judged from the amount of thickening of the edges of an ulcer found at the neck of the hernia. The ulcer- ation, however, was not within the neck, but rather on the opposite unincluded surface of the intestine. The sac pushed the obturator nerve and vessels well to the outer side and to its upper part, with the exception of one branch of artery, which passed to the thigh on the inner side. The obturator muscle, which was in front of the sac, had to be scraped away to get at it. The sac was of nodular shape, and about two thirds of an inch in diameter. (Fig. 283.) It caused no fulness externally on the thigh. This was looked for particularly, because the protrusion was first discovered from the inside. In addition to the hernia, another coil of bowel (small intestine considerably higher up) was adherent by a strong band at the hernial neck, and about this the distended coils had twisted in a peculiar aud indescribable manner, yet no obstruction had resulted therefrom, the distension continuing both above and below it. A slight femoral protrusion also existed on both sides. On the right side, a little omentum was adherent at the neck of the sac, and, by its adhesion, dragged down the pyloric orifice of the stomach aud the textures in the portal fissure.