167 FROSTBITE. appear redder tbau usual, and if the part be removed from the in- tluence of the cold at this time, recovery may follow, or, in feeble subjects, a superficial '‘chilblain.” If the cold, however, be allowed to act longer, the parts will become stiff, and at last insensible, feeling “ dead.” To the eye they will assume a white and waxy aspect and be senseless to all impressions, the blood having been completely driven from the surface. When the cold has been suddenly applied, and is sufficient to kill the structure outright, the frozen part will have a mottled aspect, from the retention of blood within the tissues. Many of these effects may be produced by the aether spray. The constitutional effects of cold are at first stimulating, and subse- Constitu- quently depressing; excitement passing into sleepiness, and this into effects torpor. If the latter be yielded to, the sleep will end in death, the blood being sent from the surface of the body to the brain and other viscera, and death being produced by blood engorgement, as in apoplexy. In the “sleepy and depressed stage” of cold, if the patient be brought suddenly under the influence of warmth, and placed too near a fire, the risks of lung engorgement, as well as of rapid gangrene of the frozen parts, are very great, for by sudden reaction the arterial circulation becomes quickened, and all the parts are gorged with blood which they hive lost the power of propelling onwards. In gangrene from frostbites there seems reason to believe that ulceration of the duo- denum may follow, as after burns. Mr. Adams has recorded such a case in the ‘Ameri:an Med. Times’ for 1863. Treatment—Pew cases require more care, for any sudden alternation Treatment oi of temperature may be most injurious. The aim of the surgeon should frostbite, be to recall tin aftected parts gradually to their normal condition, by assisting the vmous circulation by gentle friction in the course of the veins with fun or flannel, and the arterial by comparative warmth applied externally, and gentle stimulants administered internally. Neither warm water, nor air, nor fire should be allowed to approach the parts until bhe natural temperature has been partially restored, and then only with jreat care. Friction with snow or iced water has been re- commended. On reaction, the parts may be raised and lightly covered with flannel or jotton-wool, or exposed to the warm air of a chamber ; whilst food and stimulating drinks are carefully administered, warm milk with a litte brandy being the best. Should reaction be too severe, it must be cheered by lead or spirit lotions. When gangriue follows, and only small portions of the body suffer, Wlien such as the infegument, the parts may be dressed by some stimulat- ing application to hasten the separation of the slough, and the part should be kept warm; carbolic acid and oil are probably the best applications; bnics should also be given. When large lortions of the body suffer, such as the whole foot, (and When in this country have seen a coachman, who had on new tight boots on gHutjrene ex- a bitter wiuterday, lose both feet), amputation may be called for, the surgeon alwayi waiting till the line of demarcation or limit to the sloughing procss is fairly marked. Boils and Carbuncle. These affecthns are, in a measure, allied, and are both due to inflam- On hoils and ination of the s;in and subcutaneous tissue, though the disease probably carbuncle, commences in he latter. In both there is effusion of lymph into the areolar tissue d the part, and in both this generally sloughs, although