MICEOSCOPICAIi ANATOMY OP TTJMOT7ES. 135 explains; the other explains what the first describes. If we are to decide which is the better, it must be settled by observing whether description or explanation most usefully determines the kind of a tumour. I think description must be widely and laboriously detailed to compass the expression of the signs of malignancy, and that the learner will scarcely carry descriptions which could fortify him against mistake. On the other hand, the conception of malignancy as auto-infectiousness is at once grasped, and, if discreetly used, will generally serve to give a sufficient clue to the nature of any given tumour. Thus, as to any tumour of the breast, the inquiry, on one system, will be—"Does it push parts aside, or grow into them ? ” On the other —“ Is the skin, &c., stretched over or involved in the tumour ?” These questions, you see, amount to the same thing. Again, on the one system the question will he—“ Does the disease infect all through to the surface, and then open on it ?” On the other —‘‘ Is the skin simply stretched, perhaps burst through, and does the tumour simply thrust out itself, while healthy skin aw'aits its chance to heal ? Or, is the edge of the opening thick and everted, and callous with such and such an ulceration ?” This, again, is the same question. But, repeating, as the student can, such ways of considering the charac- ters of innocency, he will, I believe, soon learn to value the short com- prehensive and comprehended grasp of them by the consequences of their auto-infectiousness, by means of which he can infer or explain the more tedious descriptive terms. Cancer.—The word cancer is best regarded as the substantive which Cancer, is equivalent to the adjective malignant, so that a tumour that is malignant is a cancer, and a cancer is a malignant tumour. If we accept this, there is no longer any need of discussing the compass of the word cancer; and, indeed, now and always, this has been the most ready and natural use of the word, and the one most universally em- ployed. For if you watch the writing or speaking of any one who, priding himself on descriptive accuracy, limits the term cancer to carcinoma (p. 139), you will invariably find that before long he is using the word cancer as the equivalent of malignant. On the other hand, the word cancer is made by some to be the equiva- lent of carcinoma; the latter having a limited application to a certain kind of tumour structure (see Fig. 32). Surely this is superfluous. The word carcinoma is enough for its proper application, and in patho- logical questions of precision, there is no hurry or vagueness to prevent the employment of four syllables. So I think the word cancer may be left to its colloquial wide signification as a malignant tumour of any sort, carcinomatous or otherwise. Certainly, tumours of various histological structure do prove auto-infectious or malignant. The tumours which most frequently show this malignancy are in order—(1) Carcinoma in all its forms, (2) Sarcoma, (3) Myxoma, (4) Lymphoma. Other tumours, also, are far from being free of the risk of auto-infection. Kecurrent or semi-malignant.—Auto-infection is, in some kinds offiecunent tumours, incomplete in its manifestation. Thus, some spindle-cell SfO'vths. sarcomas will recur often after removal, and yet show little ten- dency to invade the internal parts. Then, again, squamo-epithelial cancer extends to the glands, but not generally to the viscera. Also, soft, quickly growing sarcomata will extend fiercely to the viscera, and not invade the glands at all. In other words, auto-infection, in its