CATARACT. 369 I l.ipse of iris that may occur must te carefully returned with the curette; each eye should then be covered with two pieces of wet lint and a light bandage applied. Small flap with iridectomy. Small flap. A flap section should be made by transfixing the eyeball through the sclero-corneal margin with the straight extraction (Graefe’s) knife I (Fig. 103 o), and then cutting out in the line of the sclero-corneal c junction. The section may be made either upwards or downwards, and the P point of transfixion should be about one third of the distance from the p horizontal corneal meridian to the upper or lower margin of the f cornea. The steps of the operation, with the exception of the incision, V are exactly similar to those of linear extraction (see p. 370), but j should it be thought fit to perform the operation without anaesthesia, I no speculum or fixing forceps should be used. I Oblique corneal section. Oblique ^ This operation often goes by the name of Bader’s or Liebreich’s opera- Q tion, when the section is made downwards; Lebrun’s “extraction by I small median flap,” when the section is made upwards. It seems to me ■ that the term “ oblique corneal section ” expresses all and dispenses 1 with much uunecessai-y prolixity. ij The instruments required are a thin straight cataract knife, a sharp a hook, and curette (Fig. 103 c, d, a). (For the position of patient and f surgeon see Fig. 94, p. 340.) No anaesthetic is required, and, with the n exeeption of the incision, the steps of the operation are much the same :j as in flap extraction. 1 The incision may be made either upwards or downwards (Fig. 104 B), Method of ( by passing the straight knife through the sclero-corneal margin on ( the outer side at a point (puncture) corresponding to the horizontal r. corneal meridian into and across the anterior chamber, out at a cor- 'ji responding point on the inner side (counter-puncture), and then cut- 4 ting forwards by a sawing movement, obliquely, through the cornea, 4 midway between the pupil and upper or lower corneal margin; the li former if the incision is made upwards, the latter if it is made down- i wards. In entering the knife and passing it across the anterior chamber, care must be taken to keep its edge directed forwards » towards that part of the cornea \f^ch it is desired to incise; if the '.i knife be rotated in any way after ■^»he anterior chamber has been M opened, the aqueous humour will escape and the blade become entangled ii in the iris. '1 The capsule should be lacerated and the lens removed in the same way as in flap extraction; the position of the incision near the centre of the cornea, however, will not allow the lens to be pressed out imme- 1 diately, as is done in the flap operation. ' Before attempting to squeeze out the cataract its margin must be Removal of ' brought opposite the incision by gently pressing upon the globe above cataract. < or below, according as the section has been made upwards or down- • wards. The bulk of the cataract having been removed, care must be taken Treatment of ; to get away any soft cortical substance or fragments of lens that matter. { may be left. The soft matter can be removed by gently rubbing the I cornea; small hard fragments must be drawn out by the curette or a I small scoop. The whole of the cataract having been removed, the ■' VOL. I. 24