CHROXIC OBSTRUCTION. 627 in mind that in the “ contractions” the small intestines are the parts that are involved and in the strictures” the large, it remains for the surgeon in the latter class of cases to determine the seat of the disease, for a correct knowledge upon this point is clearly requisite before stricture, any precise operative treatment can be entertained. On reference to the table, this point comes out very strongly—for out of 104 cases which have been tabulated, in 78 the disease was in the sigmoid flexure or rectum j in 19 it was in the colon or one of its flexures; and in 7 it was about the ctecum. In three fourths of the cases the disease was consequently below that part of the bowel that would be opened by left lumbar colotomy, and in about one fifth by right; in but a very insignificant number was it higher up. With these hai’d facts before us, tl)e conclusion seems tolerably clear, Colotomy in that in all cases of obstinate constipation due to mechanical obstruc- stricture, tion in the large intestine, when medicinal treatment has failed, and the removal of the disease by operative measures is out of the question, instead of wasting valuable time by the persistent administration of aperients which must do harm, of enemata which can do no good, of opium and allied remedies which only mask symptoms and mislead the practitioner colotomy should be performed. In the left loin, when the diagnosis has been made of disease of the rectum or sigmoid flexure, aud in the right when the exact position of the stricture cannot be determined; for from our table it would appear that in not one case in fifteen is it likely to be above this point; right lumbar colotomy also so far as the relief it gives is as satisfactory an operation as left. It must be stated, moreover, that this relief should not be postponed too long, because from the facts alleged the operation will bo of little avail when from the mechanical effects of the faecal disten- sion a peritoneal inflammation has set in, or changes have taken place in the caecum or large intestine of an ulcerative or inflammatory character. With respect to the treatment of ” contractions,” much may be Treatment of done by judicious medical measures, more particularly by helping the contractions, passage onwards of the contents of the intestinal canal, by means of laxatives, those of an oily kind being the best, such as the oily mixture of the Guy’s Pharmacopoeia. A time will, however, come when these means will fail and others must be looked for, unless the patient be left to his fate; and of these “ enterotomy” is most applicable. The operation consists in opening Enterotomv. the small intestine in the right or left iliac fossa, and so establishing an artificial anus. The operation will be considered further on. Intussusceptions, Intussuscep- or the invagination of some portion of the bowel into a lower seg- ment (Fig. 257), may occur at any period, though more common in infancy and child life. They may take place also in any part of the intestine—my table recording that out of the 15 cases tabulated, 2 were rectal, 7 ileo-cajcal, and 6 small intestine. These statistics are supported by Gay’s analysis of 74 cases, in which 8 involved the large intestine alone and were colic, 33 ileo-caecal, and 33 small intes- tine. The rectal variety is, however, more frequently found in the adult, the iliac in young adults, and the ileo-caecal in infancy and strangulated childhood. When the iuvaginated portion of intestine becomes stran- or gulated, the symptoms are acute; when simply incarcerated, they may incarcerated.