706 TREATMENT OF FISTULA. Where there ia a long sinus. Wliere many sinuses. After- treatment. When bleeding follows. As soon as the director is felt in the rectum, the patient should he told to strain, the surgeon, at the same time, with his index finger hooking its end downwards. By these means the director will be made to protrude^from the anus, when the whole of the tissues bridged over can be readily divided (Fig. 289). When the fistula runs high up and much force is called for to turn the probe out of the anus, it is better to pass a speculum and to divide the fistula. When a long sinus runs up by the side of the bowel, it should be laid open through a speculum, to leave it alone not being a safe practice—for, although in some cases a cure may take place, in many the discharge into the rectum will continue and but little good will have been effected by the external operation. The presence of this internal dis- charging fistula is generally indicated by the appearance of pus upon the motion. When many sinuses exist, they should be laid open, although it is not necessary to divide the sphincter in more than one place, as a double division of the sphinc- ter is apt to be followed by incontinence. After operation, the wound should be well plugged with dry cotton wool down to the bottom, and no careless introduction of the plug will suffice. By this measure, all bleeding can be controlled, and any amount of pressure applied by means of a T bandage. When no bleeding exists, only a moderate-sized plug is necessary. On the second day, the dressing may be removed, there being no occasion to re-introduce the plug, a piece of oiled wool or lint gently introduced to absorb discharge being all that is required. The wound should be kept clean. When indolent, it can be stimulated by some lotion of nitric or carbolic acid, terebine, or tincture of iodine; tonics and good diet being also valuable. The horizontiil position, not in bed but on a sofa, must be maintained, however, till the parts are healed. In the blind internal fistula, a guide to the external wound may often be found by means of a bent probe hooked through the internal opening, and the case treated as any other. When severe bleeding complicates the case, a speculum may be passed, and the vessel seized and twisted. Where this cannot be done, the rectum may be well plugged with a sponge saturated in alum; but, as a rule, a well-applied pad and pressure, adjusted with a T bandage, are sufficient to control it. A piece of ice put into the centre of a cup-sponge, and applied to Fio. 289. Grooved probe passed tlirougli anal fistula belore its division.