401 AFFECTIONS OP THE MIDDLE EAR. probe as mentioned in the treatment of granulations, or by abrading the edges with a knife, conical file, or plug of wadding, turned in the perforation. But if you fail to close it by the growth of new cicatricial tissue, and yet believe that its closure would improve, or at least not imnair, the hearing capability, you may resort to the artificial drum', the success of which in some cases is very great. Numerous modifications of artificial drums have been proposed, but the most simple, most easily applied, and one that is as successful as any other, is a piece of cotton wadding moistened in water or some antiseptic solution, and applied over the perforation and lapping con- siderably over the edges. The ditficulty of its use is its first adapta- tion, but if once applied successfully the patient can adapt it in future for himself more truly and quickly than his medical attendant. The conclusion as to whether it will be of benefit or not must only be arrived at after several attempts have been made, changing the point of pressure and adapting it more closely to the remnant of natural membrane at different points at each attempt. When it has been used for some time with success the patient feels it very inconvenient to be without it. If found of service, it ought not to be worn above an hour or two at a time for some days, gradually increasing the duration of its application, but always removing it at night, and the patient should be directed to attend to the most perfect cleanliness at each renewal of the wadding. How the artificial membrane acts is still a matter of doubt. It is considered that it is a support to the ossicles and mem- branes, and this is probably its action in the majority of cases. From observations at the ditt’erent positions in which they increase the hearing power, I think they may have also a resonating action. Artificial perforation of the tympanic membrane.—Having spoken of Artificial the means of closing a perforation, it is convenient here to speak of artificial perforation of the membrane. The operation is recommended tympanic in cases of accumulations of pus or mucus within the tympanic niembrane. cavity, of impassable stricture of the Eustachian, of thickening of the membrane, of adhesions of the membrane to the tymi)anic walls, in cases of tinnitus, and in cases where no benefit is derived after prolonged use of other curative means and the diagnosis is not clear, but the acoustic is not much affected. That benefit may be derived in all such cases cannot be denied, but unhappily we are not yet in a position to say that perforation will benefit tbis or that case, except in cases of accumulation. The point of operation is determined in cases of accumulation by the point of the membrane at which bulging is present, while in other cases a spot behind the manubrium is usually chosen. Bringing the membrane well into view by the usual method, the opera- tion is made by means of one of the numerous instruments which have been proposed for the purpose. If it is merely as an experimental proceeding, to determine whether an opening will be of benefit to the hearing, or for the purpose of allowing the exit of pus or mucus, a small, plain, double-edged scalpel is all that is required. Having made the opening sufficiently large, you remove all impediments to the 9 passage of sound by causing an air douche to be passed through the * cavity by one of the usual methods, having, if necessary, previously I softened any accumulations. It being thus empirically determined i I that a permanent opening in the membrane would be desirable, you « I attempt to keep the opening from closing by a bougie or Politzer’s * VOL. I. 26