270 FEACTUEES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. , I [ [! I 1 V !! I May escape (letectiou. Example. Generally the result of indirect forces. also, of dislocation, the upper vertebra was thrown forward upon the lower, as seen in Fig. 80. Where spinal symptoms resulted, the cord was more or less pressed upon, in some instances crushed, and in others bruised. Fractures of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrm associated with dis- placement, and giving rise to paralysis below the seat of injury, are less speedily fatal than those of the cervical region. Fracture of the spine may, however, take place and not be associated with any paralysis. The spinous processes of any of the vertebrae may be fractured, and no spinal symptoms follow. This accident is gene- rally the result of a direct blow. When I was a dresser I saw a case of fracture of the spinous processes of three cervical vertebrae associated with a temporary paralysis, and in this instance complete recovery ensued; I have since treated successfully a case of frac- ture and displacement of the spinous process of the fourth cervical vertebra without paralysis. In other cases, fracture of the spine may take place and not be detected until after death. Examples of this are not uncom mon. In such, the cord is not involved nor any of the nerve trunks. The following case illustrates these points. In 1857, a woman, in an attack of mania, was admitted into Guy’s under the care of Mr. Cock, for some contusion of the back caused by a fall out of a window. Beyond the contusion, no injury could be made out. There was no paralysis, but, on the contrary, violent muscular movement, the patient being maniacal. On one occasion she got out of bed and struggled to open a window to throw herself out. She lived sixteen days, and during the last week of life rested quietly in bed, with her eyes closed. She would only at times rouse herself and speak. After death, atrophy of the brain was found, with general fatty degeneration of the viscera. The last dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebrse were fractured through their bodies, but not displaced; one or two spinous processes were also fractured. The spinal marrow w'as uninjured. The fact of there being no displacement of the broken bones, and no injury to the cord, prevented a correct diagnosis being made. I have seen also a case of fracture of the spinous processes of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae with lateral displacement, the injury having been treated for some months pre- viously, as a simple contusion of the back. In this case no paralysis existed or other spinal symptoms. Fractures and dislocations of the spine are generally the result of indirect forces, such as severe falls. A forcible bending forward of the cervical spine may cause dislocation Fig. 81. Fracture of spine. Guy’s Hosp. Mus., No. 1035“.