243 TETANUS. matic forms. Larrey stated that after a great battle, a hundred soldiers were found affected hy it in one morning. Exciting causes.—Tetanus is rare in the course of ordinary surgical Exciting disease, although it may follow any form of injury from the slightest causes, contusion to the severest compound fracture. It may occur after the extraction of a tooth, or the gravest operation in surgery, and it is known in obstetric practice as puerperal tetanus. It is most common after the more severe varieties of accidents, such as burns, compound fractures, and injuries to the fingers and toes, though there is no evi- dence to prove that it is more frequent after slight injuries to the fingers and toes than to other parts. Lacerated seem to be more fre- quently followed by tetanus than incised wounds, particularly in chil- dren. The state of the wound appear to have any influence on the disease. Seven years’ experience at Guy’s Hospital gives the following facts (Poland). Tetanus occuri’ed in 1 case out of 1394 >> 99 9 cases „ 594 9> 99 1 case „ 856 9t 99 3 cases „ 456 99 99 9 ), „ 398 cases of major and minor opera- tions. „ of wounds of all varieties. „ ofinjuries and contusions. „ of bums and scalds. „ of compound fractures. 23 3698 „ or 1 in every 160 cases. There is no definite period at which tetanic symptoms are prone to Date of appear. When they set in soon after the injury, they are for the most “PPearance- part acute and very fatal; after the lapse of three weeks, the chances of their appearance are very small. Acute cases, however, occasionally occur during the second week; upon this point Poland gives us the following facts: Of 277 cases, 130 began before the 10th day, and of these 101 died. .» » 126 „ between the 10th and 22nd day, and of these 65 died. « » 21 „ after the 22nd day, and of these 8 died. In tetanus following exposure to cold the symptoms generally appear rapidly after the exciting cause, and with the same exciting cause, similar results occur in the traumatic form. Symptoms. There are no general or local premonitory symptoms Symptoms, by which the onset of this affection can be recognised, and the earliest indications of its approach are generally a difiiculty in opening the mouth, with stiflness in the muscles of the lower jaw; yet these slight as to pass unheeded, or be misinterpreted. When, however, some rigidity of the muscles of the neck, throat, or abdomen can be made out, and the first indications of the “ tetanic grin, or risus sardonicus, recognised—this symptom being caused by the drawing down of the corners of the mouth, by the muscles of the face the diagnosis becomes certain. Difficulty in swallowing wiU then soon appear (any attempt to drink fluids exciting spasm of the muscles of deglutition and often of respiration), with pain, due to spasm of the diaphragm, shooting through the body from the scrobicnlus