DISEASES OP THE ARTERIES. 429 ■ parts tlie clot was white and like fibrous tissue, and could not be dis- 1 tiuguisbed from the coats, which here were swollen and atheromatous. ■ The atheroma, indeed, appeared to be here in the clot also as well as [J; in the arterial coat” (Wilks). t There seems little doubt also as to the fact, that a vessel may become Obliterative i completely obstructed by a strictly local arteritis. arteritis. It may be noted in passing, that the descriptions of the naked- eye appearances in these cases, exactly correspond with that of the so- called syphilitic disease of the cerebral arteries just alluded to as having been described by Heubner, and which has been classed by us as acute arteritis, inasmuch as it is a disease purely cellular. Such cases as the last, however, are rare compared with those of local chronic arteritis, when met with in the arch of the aorta at its bi- furcation and other parts. It is indicated by thickening of the vessel and i loss of its elasticity, by the external coat changing into a tough fibrous r|: tissue, and the afl'ected parts, instead of feeling thin and pliable, becom- Iing hard and leathery. “ Now, such changes as these are commonly jioxon’a present along with the atheromatous pulp in the deep inner coat, and views of ae these are the part of the changes that go by the term atheroma as I commonly accepted. Changes of a kind that cannot be regarded as arteries, other than inflammatory are present in nearly all bad examples of atheroma; the extent of the inflammatory changes generally surpasses that of the atheromatous, and these inflammatory changes occur often without any atheroma, and especially in younger subjects, about or under middle age. The more inflammatory changes tend more to produce aneurisms than do the atheromatous patches. When atheroma is thoroughly established, so that a pulpy mass is formed in the coats at any spot, this is generally thick and hard and unyielding, and does not give way to pressure so as to form an aneurism. The disease I that leads to aneurism is the same disease as leads to atheroma, and I i think it is a correct way of describing these relations to say that they are alternative results of the disease of the coats. I mean so that if the sub-inflammation is severer, then the coats are softened and yield early, before the thickening and stifiening chronic process that leads to the atheroma patch has time to occur. On the other hand, if the sub-inflammation is lower and slower, then there is not such softening at any time in its course as to lead to aneurismal yielding; but the result is a slow thickening, which reaches a considerable and a sufiicient 1 degree before any fatty degeneration occurs within it, and then always the thickening goes further than the granular change, so that the wall of the artery is rather stronger there than weaker; and if the sub- inflammation be yet slower and slower the fatty or granular change in the coat goes on to an accumulation of lime salts or petrifaction of the spot, the stone in the wall showing sometimes some rude bone-cells, so that ossification may be thought really to occur, though the bone is truly a very rough production, if it be bone at all. Now, if instead of being thus slow, so as to give time for the calcareous change of its products, the sub-inflammation be very acute, then the arterial wall may rupture, and either sudden death or a false aneurism be the result.” “ I might,” adds Moxon, “ give practically any number of cases Active cell H and drawings, showing the active cell formation in cases of atheroma, fopuat'ou m d this cell formation found in the deep layer of the inner coat especially, ■ and causing the production of little nests of cells, in which fat and lime