OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS 343 Warts are not unfrequently met with about the eyelids; they should WHvts. be cot off with scissors. Tarsal cyst is met with as a dusky red or colourless projection from TarsHl cyst, the outer surface of the lid; its position is marked on the conjunctival surface by a bluish spot, from which a granulation is occasionally seen growing. The cyst is formed by obstruction of a Meibomian gland and retention of its secretion; it is sometimes in a suppurating condition. The lid should be everted, the cyst freely opened from the conjunc- Treatment, tival surface with a small knife, and its contents squeezed or scooped out; it must be thoroughly emptied, or it will, in all probability, reform. The cavity left on removal of the contents of the cyst will Filling of ali\'ays fill with blood, and shortly after the operation the tumour will be as large or larger than before; the patient must be warned “ of this. The swelling will most probably disappear in the course of from foir to six weeks; if it remain longer the operation should be repeated. i tarsal cyst sometimes degenerates into a hard fibrous little mass, fedng somewhat like a large shot beneath the skin, which is known as a chalazion; this should be dissected out through an incision ciiHlnzion. in the skin of the lid, which should afterwards be closed by a fine Trcaimeni. suture. lanthelasma is often met with as a small yellow patch on some Xanthe- pa-t of the skin of the eyelids; its most frequent site is the lasma. su'face of the upper lid near the inner canthus. The little patch mij' be excised if it is a source of anxiety to the patient. Simple serous cysts occur about the margins of the lids; they are simple cyst, abut the size of small peas, and nearly transparent. A portion of the cyst wall should be cut out with scissors. Trichiasis signifies a faulty direction of the eyelashes, which turn Trichiasis, invards and irritate the cornea; it is usually caused by contraction of tie conjunctiva (following granular ophthalmia or its unskilful treat- nent), producing displacement of the h&w follicles. Only a few lashes may be misdii'ected, or the whole row may be Treatment, iiverted. If only a few of the lashes turn inwards, it is sufficient to )ull them out with forceps whenever they become troublesome. If a lonsiderable number or the wdmle row are inverted, their roots should )e removed by operation. The operation should be performed as Operation, collows:—The patient being placed in the usual position {see Fig. Q*!, p. 340), the lid should be secured by a compressorium forceps (Figs. 95, 96). by which means it is steadied aud hmmorrhage prevented, care must be taken not to screw the instrument up too tightly, or sloughing of the lid may follow. The lid being well secured, the operator should make^ an incision through the skin, about three lines from the free margin of the lid and parallel with it, of such a length as to cor- respond to the lashes which are misplaced; the incision should be carried down to the outer surface of the tarsal cartilage; a second incision should then be made of the same length as the first, in the margin of the lid, and so conducted as to split the lid and separate the skin and hair-bulbs from the subjacent structures; the ends of the two incisions^ should then be joined by two short cuts, and the portion of skin included with the hair-bulbs dissected off the tarsal