REMOVAL OP TONGUE. 525 twisted and Weeding controlled. When the galvanic ecraseur, or Galvanic ^craseur wire heated by the galvanic battery can be obtained, no better ecraseur. means can be found for removing small or large portions of the tongue, and since I have employed them I have given up excision. With pins put in to isolate the growth, and the wire carefully adjusted behind them, any sized mass may be readily removed by a bloodless operation. Some prefer, however, the ordinary wire ecraseur. Both instruments are good. The amount that can be removed through the mouth by these means is measured only by the appliances the surgeon has at his command to fix its posterior boundary. In the case figured above more than the anterior two-thirds of the tongue were removed, and, by means of the curved needle shown in the drawing, no difficulty was experienced in passing the ligature, or in removing the organ. When the diseased tongue cannot be ex- Division of cised with safety, or its base isolated and surrounded with cer- the jaw. tainty, through the mouth, various expedients have been sug- gested. Professor Syme divided the lower lip and jaw in the median Syme’s line to give room for the operation (a to B, Fig. 196). Regnoli, operation, of Pavia, made an incision from the hyoid bone to the chin, and two lateral cuts from the anterior extremity of this along the lower border of the jaw (b to e and c to d. Fig. 196), dividing through to the mouth all the tissues that connected the tongue with the lower jaw at the symphysis, thereby giving abundant room to draw the tongue down- wards. Nunneley, of Leeds, introduced beneath the jaw between its base and the hyoid bone, a shai-p-pointed curved knife, four inches long, and brought it out in the mouth at the frmnum linguse (n. Fig. 196). With a probe guided upon this knife he then drew through the wound the wire rope of the Ecraseur, drawing a good loop through the mouth and withdrawing the probe, the two ends of the rope hanging beneath the chin. He then seized the tongue with for- Illustrating the different ope- ceps, forcibly pulling it out of the mouth, a tongue, and pushed through the base of the tongue three long and strong pins, making their ends appear in its upper surface near the base, and behind the disease. He then passed the loop of the ecraseur behind the pins and drew it tight, thus completely encircling the whole organ. The process of removal then went on. Sir J. Paget improved upon this, in doing away with the submental Paget’s puncture, and giving freedom to the tongue by dividing the soft parts iuiprovement. that hold it down at the floor of the mouth close to the bone, thus allowing the organ to be pulled well forw’ard. At the same time he rightly insisted that care should be taken to divide the tongue perpendicularly through its thickness, and not obliquely; this point, however, is guaranteed by the introduction of pins as already mentioned. Collis, of Dublin, instead of using the knife Collis’s as suggested by Paget to divide the sublingual tissues, employed the mode, ecraseur. He has, also, advised that the cheek be laid open from