726 COLOTOMY. Atony of colon. Dilatation of rectum. E.'cample. Treatment. behind the bowel into the hollow of the sacrum, in order to tear the rectum loose from its posterior attachments. By means of the finger and a pair of serrated scissors, the adhesions all around the rectum where, on account of the disease, it may be firmly attached to the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, should be broken up. The cancerous gut should next be carefully dissected from these parts, expos- ing to view the prostate and the lower part of the bladder, and, while this is being done, the vessels should be carefully ligatured or torsed as soon as divided and double sutures passed through the skin into the rectum, above the proposed line of excision. These should not, how- ever, be fastened, but left in position to give perfect control of the parts. When the rectum, including the cancerous portion, has been thus carefully and thoroughly isolated, the gut ought to be drawn forcibly down by seizing the tumour, and the scissors employed to cut through the walls of the bowel; a section of the rectum three inches in length can then be made, the sutures knotted, and the gut securely stitched to the surrounding integuments. Atony of the Colon and Bilatation of the Bectnm. These conditions are not unfrequently met with in practice. In old people, the colon, for want of power, often becomes enormously distended with ffficulent matter from gradual accumulation, and this condition frequently causes death. In some cases, it gives rise to the idea of stricture of the rectum, and every surgeon must have been called to cases in which impacted faeces in the rectum and colon, associated with the discharge of small, loose, offensive motions mixed with mucus and sometimes blood, has misled the attendant. Some years ago, I was asked to see a lady over seventy, who had been bed-ridden for six months, and was supposed to be dying from constipation and stricture of the rectum, nothing but small lumpy and loose motions having passed. No disease whatever existed beyond the impacted rectum and distended colon from atony of the bowel from old age. The masses were mechanically removed by means of the lithotomy scoop and enemata of oil, &c., and she lived four years, simply to die of old age. In this form of constipation, the value of nux vomica is well seen, a pill of half a grain of the extract with half a grain of belladonna, twdce a week or oftener, giving tone to the intestine, and acting as a purge. In women specially, who have been in the habit of neglecting their bowels and allowing the rectum to be a closed receptacle for fmculent matter, the cavity not only becomes much distended, but seems to lose the power of contracting and expelling its contents. I had, some years ago, at Guy’s, a case illustrating these points. The rectum, on examination, feeling like a loose bag, large enough to admit a fist was always full, having evidently lost all power of expulsion. The woman in young life had neglected herself, and in middle age could not overcome the effects of such neglect. By daily enemata of cold water to wash out the bowel, and the subsequent injection of an astringent liquid, such as the decoction of bark and alum, with the daily use of a pill containing half a grain of extract of nux vomica mixed with gentian, a complete recovery took place.