HERNIOTOMY. G61 contents, and, in a general way, to return them into the abdominal cavity, exceptional eases occurring in which it is better practice to leave them in the sac wholly or in part; and others, in which it is im- possible to reduce them; hut to these points attention will he directed further on. To liberate the strangulated hernial contents, the cause of the stran- Division of gulation must be divided; and, as previously shown, this may be found strioiure. in the tissues outside the sac, in the neck of the sack itself, or in the Its seat, contents of the sac. When the cause of constriction is found outside the sac as is usual in femoral hernia, the opening of the sac is rarely needed, division out- side being all that is required. When the neck of the sac is the seat of obstruction and prevents reduction, an openmg into it sufficient to allow of its division is all that is necessary. When the difficulty lies in the contents of the sac, I the surgeon will he required to lay the whole open, and to expose it in I order to its removal. But it should be remembered, that the less the contents of a hernia are exposed and consequently manipulated the I better are the results; also when all that is desired can he secured by the division of the tissues outside the sac, there is no need of doing more; and that when the division of the neck of the sac allows of the reduction of the hernia, a greater exposure of the contents of the sac is umieces- }■ sary and wrong, for in hernia as in all surgical interference, the surgeon II should carry out his objects in the simplest way his art can allow', and should never allow himself to do more than the absolute necessities of the case demand. Meddlesome surgery is always bad, but in hernia is too often fatal. These remarks, however, are only entirely applicable to cases of strangulated hernia in w’hich the whole contents of the sac are redu- i cible; since wdien some portion remains behind, a feeling of doubt may at times remain as to the thoroughness of the reduction of the stran- gulated portion or the condition of w’hat is left, and, under these cir- cumstances, it is usually advisable that the sac be opened and explored; AMien sac yet it is better to do so after the partial reduction of the hernia, when, sliould be ' in all probability, the strangulated bow'el has been reduced and is con- I sequently out of harm’s way, than with the whole contents of the sac in sit'd, and when they may be exposed. When the hernia cannot ' be reduced without opening the sac, the whole must necessarily be ' explored. It will thus be seen that the question of opening or not I opening the sac resolves itself into the necessities of the individual Arguments case. Where reduction can he effected without it, the “ minor ” opera- tion is sufficient; where reduction cannot be effected by the “ minor ” not^opfning the “ major ” operation must be performed. the sac. The sm-geon who opens the sac in every case, clearly often does w'hat is unnecessary. He who opens it only w'hen reduction cannot be effected without so doing, or when any uncertainty exists as to the condition of the parts contained in the sac, is free from such an error, “ and although we dare not venture to say that some of the fatal cases which have occurred after opening the sac might have terminated differently had it not been incised, w'e do not hesitate to affirm, that the untoward circumstances stated as likely to happen when the sac is not opened, have not occurred ” (Birkett). This view is supported by j' my analysis of 126 fatal cases of hernia Guy’s Hep.,’ 1856) in which