586 DENTAL SUEGERY. Epithelioma set up by jagged points of teeth. The gums. Hypertrophy of. Polypus of. BpuUa. Its connections. Vascular tumours. of the tongue, &c., and in much smaller quantity causes loosening, and if allowed to accumulate, the loss of the teeth. It should be care- fully and thoroughly removed with small scaling instruments, used so as not to make the gum bleed. All teeth that are retained in the mouth should by stopping and scaling be rendered as sound and firm as possible. A patient with tartar-loaded and decaying teeth may travel for fresh air, but will hardly find it. All sharp and jagged edges of teeth should be removed by a file; this is of special importance in after-life, as localisation of epithelioma of the tongue is commonly traceable to irritation so produced. Tumours and other Affections of the Gums. Sundry gum affections are intimately connected with the teeth. Simple hypertrophy of the gums, chiefly on their labial sur- face, is sometimes met with when the teeth are overcrowded, the gum being shut out, as it were, from between the necks of the teeth. The preventive treatment for this condition is self-evident, but when it is established, and extraction is inadmissible, it may be re- duced by free scarification and the application of tannin, &c. Occasionally, in unhealthy subjects, hypertrophy assumes larger pro- portions, the crowns of the teeth being buried in lobulated mas-es of gum. The treatment consists of scaling, free scarification (and some- times excision), together with the local use of astringents and foetor- correcting applications. Absorption of the underlying alveolus, and consequent loss of implautation for the teeth, is apt to attend upon this hypertrophy, as it does upon continued extra vascularity of the gums. A polypus of the gum is frequently found to project into dental carious cavities which extend below the gum; it is vascular and in- sensitive, and should be cut away and packed out of the tooth cavity preparatory to the filling of this latter. This gum polypus is some- times liable to be mistaken for polypus of the dentinal pulp. Epulis.—The tumours classed under this name present, in varying proportions, a fibrous or myeloid character, and not infrequently have small osseous development at their bases. As regards the maxillse, these growths essentially belong to the alveolar or tooth-bearing por- tion, and consequently can, as a rule, be completely removed without interference with the basal portion of the bone. The fibrous tissue of the gum, the endosteum, and the alveolo-dental membrane having con- tinuity, may each share in the development of an epulis; it there- fore follows that for the complete eradication of the disease, the extrac- tion of an adjoining tooth or root may be demanded, together with the excision of the'growth and involved bone. Vascular tumours. My colleague Mr. Salter has recorded a case of a vascular tumour, the size and colour of a Morello cherry, which he found attached by a narrow neck to the periosteum of a tooth. In my own practice a lobu- lated tumour, of polypus character, and having much the appearance of an epulis, overlapped the hard palate, and was found to be attached by an exceedingly narrow pedicle to the edge of the periosteum of a de- cayed molar tooth. In both these cases haemorrhage of a really alarm- ing extent had occurred, and in both the tumour was removed by extracting the tooth.