715 PROLAPSUS RECTI. lip the rectum, the straining accompanying the affection and the hmmorrhage being very severe, but a rapid recovery ensued on the removal of the growth. In another case, that of a lady, where the bowel had come down for sixteen years accompanied with daily haemorrhage, and in which walking was rendered impossible from the extent of prolapse (about six inches of bowel) the I’emoval of the mu- cous membrane in three por- tions by clamp and cautery rapidly effected a cure. To ascertain the true cause of the affection, consequently, is the first aim of the surgeon, the treatment being then com- paratively simple. On its re- moval the prolapse rapidly disap- pears. Treatment. — Whenever the bowel comes down it should be returned, which can usually be readily effected by placing the patient in the recumbent posture and pressing with oiled fingers flat upon Reduction, the part. In children, the utmost gentleness should be employed, for with pain, resistance is produced, and with it increased difficulty in reduction. Under all circumstances the patient should be kept in the recumbent posture. The bowels should in children be relieved lying down, and in adults, the horizontal posture ought always be assumed after natural relief. Brodie advised nocturnal relief of the bowels to be encouraged with this object. When the parts have been down for some time, the greatest trouble is often experienced in their reduction, indeed, sometimes it is impossible; although, with the patient under chloroform, success may attend the gentlest efforts when forcible attempts had previously failed. When the bowel has been reduced, a good pad, fastened on with a T bandage will keep it in place, or the nates may be fastened together with some good bands of strapping. When the bowel is inflamed or ulcerated, conditions that soon occur in chronic cases when the patient goes about, some slight scarification Scarification. may be called for; hut the application of cold in the form of ice is jirobably the best treatment. In some obstinate cases in children, the free application of the nitrate of silver in stick to the whole mucous Nitrate of surface, previously wiped with lint and subsequently mopped, is often silver. followed by its reduction and retention. I have never seen this practice do harm; and one application has cured the disease. The injection of three or four ounces of water made astringent with tannic acid, in the Aatringenfs. proportion of three grains to the ounce; or, with tincture of iron, ten drops to the ounce; or of the infusion of krameria, or decoction of oak bark, with or without alum, after the bowels have been relieved, is a valuable adjunct; in adults the tannic acid suppository twice a day is useful, as also the application of the tannic acid glycerine before its reduction. A mixture of the solution of the perchloride of iron Prolapsus recti. Treatment of prolapsed