125 EPITHELIAL CANOEE. » filtrating the tissues in which they are'placed or clustered together in t masses, these masses being described as “nests.” r The surface of an epithelial cancer may be dry and warty, or ulcerat- j ing; when ulcerating, it will be, like all cancerous sores, irregular, and will discharge a thin or a creamy fluid. The edge will always I be thick and elevated, like a wall of new tissue built up between the t healthy and diseased structures. When the disease spreads it will invade and infiltrate every tissue, forming deep excavated sores. It may in- t volve the lymphatic glands like any other cancer, and these glands ' may soften down, and give rise to a cancerous abscess or an open , sore. It usually destroys life from local causes, and not from »secondary infiltration of the viscera, such a consequence being quite i exceptional. [ These cancers should always he removed, and the sooner this is accom- i plished the better the prospects of a cure or of a long reprieve, for if any ! cancer has a local origin the epithelial has, and if it he removed before any glandular enlargement has taken place the prospects of a good i result are great. Sibley (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlii) made out from [ the Middlesex Hospital records, that epithelial cancers, on the average, i destroyed life in fifty-three j months, while scirrhous j lasted but thirty-two. When removed by the knife, care ’ should be taken to cut well i'ree of the disease, for it is not unusual in this, as in all cancers, to find the tissues around the tumour sparsely infiltrated with cancerous elements, which, if left, would cause a return of the tumour. The same advice is applicable when caustics are employed. In many examples of this form of the disease the re- moval by the galvanic cautery is by far the best method of .treatment we possess, either as a cautery applied to the surface, or as a wire ecraseur applied around the base. Bodent Ulcers are closely allied to the cancers, and are more like the epithelial ulcer than the true carci- nomatous form. Dr. J, C. Warren, of Boston, U.S., in an able essay upon this dis- ease, asserts, that the cells Df the rodent ulcer dift’er from those found in the epithelial by being smaller. Rodent cancer of the face, from an original drawing of Sir Charles Bell’s, contained in the museum of the Middlesex Hospital, and recognised by Messrs. Shaw and Campbell de Morgan. It was introduced to my notice by my friend, Mr. Henry Morris, of the Middlesex Hospital, and kmdly placed at my disposal by the Museum Committee of that Institution. They are local cancerous affections, and May involve glands. Treatment of epithelial cancer. Removal by knife. Removal by cautery. On rodent ulcers. Characters.