Ligature of carotid in lower part. Key’s case. 474 LIGATURE OF CAROTID. j of the vessel may then he divided, care being taken to do this to the whole extent of the external wound. The sheath of the artery will then come into view, lying between the trachea and sterno-mastoid muscle; the pulsation of the vessel likewise can be detected. The head of \ the patient at this stage of the operation should be slightly raised, so as ^ to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle and allow its being gently drawn ' out by means of the retractor, as well as to permit of the separation * of the cellular connective tissue of the part. The anterior belly of the ! omo-hyoid muscle will then probably be at once visible with its fibres nassing downwards and outwards, and, when this muscle is broad it will j cover in a great part of the vessel. The descendens noni nerve may like- 1 wise be seen lying upon the sheath, or sometimes within; due care i being taken that it is not wounded or included in the ligature; and if it be in the way, it must be gently held aside by a retractor, as also j any large vein that crosses the sheath. The inner border of the j sheath is then to be taken up and firmly held with forceps, a sufficient i opening being made in it by the knife held with its fiat surface towards j the artery, to allow of the introduction of the aneurism needle; the | needle is then generally recommended to be passed armed, though this j is not a point of importance, while unarmed it is passed with greater j facility; then by a little manipulation the needle may be passed round t the artery from without inwards, introducing it between the vein and j vessel, its point being kept close to the artery. The sheath may then be I dropped from the forceps, the loop of the ligature seized or the needle threaded, when it should be withdrawn. The surgeon must, however, j satisfy himself beforehand that the right vessel had been exposed, and ‘ that the vagus nerve is not included. The vessel can now be tied, great ( care being observed that it is not raised from its bed or manipulated more than is necessary; the knot should be tightened by the index { fingers passed well into the wound. The wound should then be adjusted i and the patient put to bed, the most perfect quiet being enjoined. The I surgeon ought to remember all through this operation that the jugular vein is on the outer side of the artery, and often overlaps it; while the y vagus nerve is behind, and the descendens noni in front (Fig. 149). * None of these parts need be looked for, however, so long as care is oh- ' served that they are neither wounded nor included in the ligature. The operation for ligaturing the lower part of the carotid is somewhat similar to the above, the operation being more difficult from the vessel being deeper, particularly on the left side. The incision should in this instance extend lower down over the sterno-clavicular articulation. The muscles will also require more retraction, and probably some division. The ligature when of a permanent nature, will probably separate about the fifteenth day, but occasionally the period will be longer; the less it is disturbed the better, the gentlest traction only being applied to draw it out of the wound. If its discharge be retarded, the ligature may be twisted daily on its own axis, to facilitate its separation, yet this should be done with extreme caution. Mr. Cock related to me a case, which he authorises me to quote, in which Mr. Aston Key applied a ligature to the left carotid for aneu- rism and the man died on the table; indeed dying on the application of the ligature. After death it was found that the right carotid had been previously obliterated, and the operator had, by ligaturing the left, so interfered with the supply of blood to the brain as to cause death.