687 UMBILICAL AND VENTRAL HERNIA. Messrs. Lee, Barwell, and Wood have suggested an operation for the closure of the umbilical orifice, but such a measure cannot he recom- mended ; since to risk life unnecessarily for an afEection that is mostly curable by time and natural processes assisted by art, is hai’dly justifiable. Adult patients with reducible ventral hernia should also wear some mecbanical appliance, such as a ring truss j and an irreducible rupture should he protected by a cup truss. When these tumours are large and irreducible, they give rise to When large troublesome abdominal symptoms. They supply, indeed, the best examples seen of so-called obstructed hernia j faces and flatus entering the incarcerated intestine and remain immoveable, causing obstructed, nausea, colicky pains, and constipation. Rest in the horizontal position, the local application of ice, a good enema to empty the lower bowel, and a purge to clear out the upper, will often, under these circumstances, prove of great benefit; and should be tried in all cases. When symptoms of strangulation exist, such measures, however. When must not be thought of. The taxis should then be employed, and with strangulated, a patient under chloroform, as a rule, it proves successful. In applying Taxis under it to a large tumour where it is probable a fresh descent of intestine chloroform, has taken place, and the symptoms are due to its strangulation, the surgeon should examine the tumour carefully to discover if one part is more tense than another; as then the taxis should be applied to the tense part in preference to the other. On several occasions, by adopting this practice, I have been able to reduce with complete success the strangulated portion of the contents of a hernia. When vomiting, constipation, local pain, and an absence of impulse in the tumour are persistent, the reduction or freedom of the mass from stran- gulation by operation must be entertained. When herniotomy is called for, it is a matter of immense importance Operation for that no manipulation of the contents of the sac should take place, because umbilical when the sac is opened and the parts exposed, it is an exceptional occurrence for a cure to follow, no cases of hernia under these circum- stances being more fatal than the umbilical. When the sac is not opened. Not openin'' however, so as to expose its contents, or only opened at its neck to allow sac. of the division of the strangulating orifice, a good result may be ex- pected. In many cases in which I have adopted this practice a good result followed, the oldest patient being seventy-four years of age, with strangulation of five days’ standing. In irreducible hernia of large size and of long standing, when re- When neck duction of the contents of the sac, as a whole, cannot be expected, and .ouly there is no evidence of strangulation within the sac by some of its contents, the surgeon ahould he satisfied with relieving the strangula- tion by dividing the neck of the sac, and leaving the case to nature. To explore the whole sac, and to expose the irreducible bowel to the air and manipulation, is an unnecessary as well as fatal practice. I had a case in 1874 with Mr. Brockwell, of Sydenham, in which, in a lady, an irreducible hernia of seven years’ standing became strangulated, when I simply divided the neck of the sack and left the parts alone. After two days the whole contents of the sac returned, and a rapid and complete recovery took place. I have followed this practice on several