692 ON TRUSSES. To measure for a truss. Extra spare truss. When a double truss to be used. knoes apart and his hands resting on his knees and then to cough, these positions tending more than any other to relax the lower parts of the abdomen and to loosen the truss. When the hernia by these means fails to descend or to excite in the patient a sensation of weak- ness in the region of one of the abdominal rings, the truss is probably efficient. ^ The patient should be taught, under all circumstances, what the truss is expected to do, and be made to understand the danger he will incur if it fail in its pm’pose, as well as the necessity of again seeking advice. The surgeon, moreover, should always take upon himself the re- sponsibility of seeing that the truss fits, and not rest satisfied by sending his patient to buy a truss where he likes and of what kind he likes j he should also tell the maker what is wanted, and not leave him to find it out. To measure for a truss.—The following points should he noticed, viz. the nature of the hernia, the size of the hernial aperture, the side, or if double. The circumference of the pelvis should also be given one inch below the crest of the ilium, and the girth of the body, com- mencing and ending at the hernial orifice, as well as the distance from the hernial aperture to the iliac spine. The surgeon, moreover, should always indicate to the maker the directions of the pressure required by the pad, and this should always be made out when the patient stands, by a digital examination. In pendulous and fat subjects with inguinal hernia, it may be upwards, backwards, and inwards j in thin subjects simply backwards. In femoral rupture, the plane of the crural ring is horizontal, and may be closed by a backward pressure. No general rules can be laid down, though this is a point upon which the whole value of the truss depends. To estimate the force required to keep the hernia in position is a difficult matter. Up to the present time the only true test is that of trial. Mr. Wood has had an ingenious pressure-gauge made for the purpose, which may possibly turn out of value. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,^ October 12th, 1871.) Mr. Holthouse has likewise in- vented a skeleton truss which promises to be of use for indicating the length and shape of the spring required, and the correct angle at which the pad should be fixed. Patients who are liable to employ at times great muscular exertion should have two trusses, one for ordinary wear with a sufficient press power to keep the hernia in position, and the second with an increase of power which is to be put on when occasion demands. They should also have extra bathing trusses. When any tendency exists for a double hernia, as indicated by a bulging of the opposite ring or a sense of weakness on making exer- tion, a double truss should be worn j indeed, in inguinal hernia, I believe that a double truss should always be employed. It is at least as com- fortable as a single one, besides being an extra protection if well adjusted, and can do no harm. Birlcett, ‘Holmes’s Syst.,’ vol. iv, ed. 1870; ‘Med.-Cliir Trans.,’ 1859.—Bryant, ‘ Guy’s Reports,’ 1856; ‘ Clin. Surg.,’ Part 3,1861.—Cooper’s ‘ Surgical Diet., 8th ed.— Gau, ‘On Hernia,’ \8i8.-P. Eewett, ‘ Med.-Cliir. Trans.,’1841.—^nd. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1865.—yame*, ‘ On Hernia,’ 1869.—//iton Key, ‘ On Hernia,’ 1R3S; Guv s Rep.,’ 18i9.—Kingdon, ‘ Med.-Cliir. Trans.,’ 186i.-Luke, ‘ Mef-Chir. Trans., vols. xxvi and xxxi.—Lawrence, ‘ On Ruptures,’ 1835, 6th ed.—Stephens, ‘On Obstructed Hernia,’ 1829.—Scaiya, Wisliait’s ed., 1814.—/ford, ‘ On Strangulated Hernia, 1854.— Wood, ‘ On Rupture,’ 1863.