686 UMBILICAL HERNIA. sequently granulated, contracted, and so pressed the parts back into their normal position that a recovery followed. Fig. 285 represents the case in the fifth month. In the case of a male child, one day old, in which a hernia into the cord the size of a small egg existed, and through the thin walls of which the crncum with its appendix was clearly visible, I pressed the bowel back with my finger and thumb, I'lQ. <285. I Congenital umbilical hernia. The acquired form. Treatment of umbilical hernia. Umbilical truss. stitched up the cord at its umbilical orifice with some deep sutures, and ligatured the cord itself at the apex of the congenital translucent hernial sac, and complete recovery followed without any had symptoms. The child was alive and well two years after the operation. The case was brought to me on June 16th, 1876, by an old dresser. Dr. W. Cock, of Peckham. The practice adopted in the case is that which I advise to be followed. In the acquired form of hernia, the sac is always formed, both in the infant and adult, by the pushing forwards of the parietal abdo- minal layer of peritoneum. The parts covering it being occasionally very thin, are only integument and fascia, the internal abdominal fascia being over the true sac; at times the tumour attains a large size, and, as it generally increases downioards, the surgeon must look for the neck of the sac at its upper part. These hernise at times assume odd shapes. Treatment.—When in an infant and reducible, a cure may with some confidence be promised; indeed, with the majority of cases in young life an opening in the navel will contract, if care be observed to fix over the part with good strapping a fiat elastic ring or pad covered with leather. A convex pad tends to keep the ring open. A belt or truss in early life is a delusion since it never keeps its place. In lieu of a pad, it is an excellent plan to pinch up the integument over the hernia with the thumb and finger and then to turn the folds sideways upon the umbilical opening, fixing it in its position by waterproof strapping, the folded integument by this method acting as a pad and assisting recovery. 0