PAINFUL ULCER OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 701 and, when the narrowness of the gut forbids easy advance, no force should be employed, for by force the peritoneal covering of the bowel has been ruptured. With the hand in the rectum, the parts above the brim of the pelvis may be readily examined; indeed, the kidneys have been felt, and pulsation in the larger branches of the abdominal aorta can be traced, and consequently controlled. With these brief general remarks, I now proceed to treat of the special affections. Fissure and Painful Ulcer of the Anus. This most distressing affection produces more misery than any On fissure other local disease with which I am acquainted, and renders the natural act of defmcation an agonising one, often “causing great drops of perspiration to course down the temples.” It is usually caused by the mechanical splitting of the orifice of the anus from the passage of a large or indurated motion, at the junction of the mucous membrane of the bowel with the skin, although it is not always traceable to such a cause. In some instances it seems to owe its origin to scratching the parts when highly irritable. It Is usually a disease of adult life, and common to both sexes; though it has been found in children, even so young as a year and a half. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 6tb, 1874.) It is met with ns often in the healthy as in Fig. 288. the feeble subject, but where it has been allowed to go on uncontrolled, Fffects it soon tells upon the strongest patient. Constipation, high feeding, sedentary habits, and want of local cleanliness, are the common causes, disease, but anything that sets up irritation in the intestines is likely to pro- duce it, and, when once started, unless treated with discrimination, it may go on for years j indeed, it is by no means unusual to hear, that the symptoms have been endured for two, four, or even six years. It gene- Sj-mptoas. rally manifests its presence by some local uneasiness in the act of defae- cation, this uneasiness passing on to more or less severe pain. This pain, as a rule, is experienced during the passage of the motion, but in some instances it comes on after the lapse of a few minutes or even an hour or more after the act, and may last a few minutes or hours. WTien it passes away, the patient is easy till the same cause excites the same symptoms. The motions will often be streaked with a line of pus or blood and diminished in size, sometimes being flattened, at others