SYPHILIS. 98 j Inoculation and Syphilisation. % Eicord was the first surgeon who employed inoculation for diagnostic purposes in venereal affections; and through his experiments he was led to the conclusion, that “ a chancre at the period of progress is the only source of the syphilitic virus.” As a test of the simple suppu- rating sore it may now be employed, for a second sore can readily be obtained by inoculating a patient from the pus of bis own primary one. Indeed, this process of auto-inoculation may be continued for a long series, but only with any effect from the suppurating sore. In the syphilitic sore no inoculation will take, and in the inoculation of common pus no reaction occurs, or next to none, a simple pustule . probably alone appearing. From these clinical facts it would appear that common pus, the pus I from a suppurating non-syphilitic sore, and that from a syphilitic one, are very distinct, including under the term syphilitic any sore that is ' followed by syphilis. By inoculation, therefore, a surgeon may fairly determine the fact as ! to the nature of a chancre, and, under some circumstances, the evidence I obtained by the practice may be valuable. Syphilisation originated in 1844 through some experiments of M. Auzias 5 Turenne upon animals to inoculate them with syphilis; and in these be I found, that, after a number of inoculations, they became proof against the syphilitic virus. It was followed up by M. Sperino, of Turin, and extensively employed by Professors Boeck, Faye, and Bidenkap, at Christiania, several hundred cases having been treated upon the prin- ciple, the object being “ to cure syphilis.” 5 The theory as expressed by Boeck, “that the syphilitic virus, by t continued inoculation, annihilates itself,” was practically carried out by I inoculating a patient the subject of syphilis with fresh matter from \ any active venereal sore of any kind till the inoculations failed to take. ) The inoculations were repeated every three or four days, first on the 1 body, then on the extremities. When inoculation is no longer possible, t “the treatment is finished, and the patient has recovered his health.” 1 Boeck never practised syphilisation until the constitutional symptoms <} appeared, for, says he, “ I cannot double a malady already present, so I am quite certain not to do barm to the patient.” Syphilisation is i not used with equal success against all cases of syphilis. “ In those ' that have not been treated with mercury, the progress of syphilisation ' will be regular; the syphilitic phenomena will vanish away, immunity will take place eventually, and recovery be attained with certainty. In those who have taken mercury, syphilisation is not so certainly ■ useful; it ought to be tried; it does often cure syphilis entirely, and 1 at least does good.” I These are Boeck’s conclusions; but I need hardly add, they are not those of British surgeons. The practice has been mentioned and ' briefly described, but not to be recommended. It has no single advan- tage, and is certainly loathsome. We are decidedly of opinion, write ' Lane and Gascoyen, in an able article on the subject, “ that syphUisa- 1 tion is not a treatment which can be recommended for adoption. We I consider that, even if it could be admitted to possess all the advantages II claimed for it by its advocates, its superiority over other modes of treatment, or in many instances over no treatment at all, would not I sufficiently compensate for its tediousness, its painfulness, and the life- On inoculation and syphilization. Clinical facts. Syphilisation. Theory thereof. Boeck’s ' opinions. The treatment not to be re- commended.