ANEUEISMS. 461 pertrophied, and it was evident that the whole of the Wood from the leg was returned through them. It would appear also that in this case, as a direct result of an injury, a varicose aneurism formed, into which the whole of the arterial Wood flowed. Moreover— That tlie arterial Wood subsequently found a more direct course through the popliteal vein than through the artery, and as a result the vein became hypertrophied and the artery atrophied. Also— That the force of the arterial blood current upon the thin coats of the vein caused the gradual dilatation of the vein and the subsequent formation of an aneurism in its course; and that by the giving way of this bleeding had taken place. The wasting of the femoral vein above the upper sac, with the hyper- trophy of the same vein below the sac, from its taking on the functions of an artery, is a point of interest; and not the least interesting point was the great hypertrophy of the cutaneous veins through which the whole of the venous circulation of the leg must have been carried on. I have given this case at some length, because it illustrates better than any general description the whole effects, primary as well as secondary, of a varicose aneurism. With reference to diagnosis it may be stated, that at the point of junction of the arterial and venous streams, a peculiar burring bruit is often felt and heard—this bruit frequently extending down the course of the dilated veins; and, where a sac, in which the two Wood currents meet, separates the artery and the vein, there is likewise a soft bruit. The sac is rarely very large, and is made up of condensed cellular tissue and plastic matter. Treatment.—In neither of these cases is surgical interference Treatment of generally required. Should the disease be extensive, and either from "rtcio- pain, mechanical causes, or chances of rupture of the vessels, require a„curism. treatment, a cure may be attempted by compression of the artery above and the vein below. When the disease is in the bend of the elbow, by forcible flexion of the forearm on the arm and supination of the hand, the brachial artery being in this manner fairly obstructed; a pad may likewise be placed upon the point of communication between the two canals, to make the pressure more perfect. Indirect compres- sion in any other of its forms can also be tried ; and, on these failing the case must be treated as one of wounded artery—the vessel must be cut down upon, and a ligature placed on either side of the opening. The veins need not be interfered with, as they will gradually wither so soon as their arterial communication has been cut off. Cirsoid aneurism, erectile tumours, and aneurism by anastomosis. These have nothing in common with the spontaneous and traumatic aneurisms that have been already described, besides being diseases of the arterial system. They are vascular tumours made up of arterial tissue and formed by a dilatation and elongation of arteries; the term cir- soid aneurism being employed when tlie trunks of the larger vessels are involved, and aneurism by anastomosis when the smaller vessels or capil- laries are afl'ected. In the cirsoid aneurism, one vessel or many vessels On cirsoid may be diseased—the disease showing itself by the artery becoming aneurism, tortuous, dilated into pouches, and convoluted. When one vessel alone is affected Gosselin called it arterial varix. When the disease is on the scalp (its most common sent), three or four large tortuous arteries