NECROSIS OP THE JAWS. 539 t. \ B f k I ij l! J ) i| I >i I < I (i J' I I I i I I 1 cure. Wlien associated with disease such as “ necrosis ” or death of the bone, the removal of the dead portion is an absolute necessity. Necrosis of the Jaws. This is a common affection as a consequence of one of the exanthe- Exanthe- mata, or some other fever, and is now fairly recognised. It is more common in children than in adults. As a rule it appears on the decline of the fever, with pain and swelling about some portion of the gums, and rapidly passes on to suppuration and death of the bone. The necrosis, however, is generally confined to the alveolus, in exceptional instances only it involves the body of the bone. Both jaws are equally liable to the affection. In the ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eeports ’ for 1869 I recorded a series of cases to illustrate these points. In one case, narrated in Compensa- detail, that of a woman, rot. 25, who in infancy had lost a large tory growth portion of her npper jaw after measles—the lower jaw had grown up to fill in the deficiency in the upper. It was nearly one inch higher in its vertical measurement on the right side than the left; it seemed, indeed, as if the lower jaw had grown upwards for want of the regulating influence of the natural pressure which the teeth of the upper jaw must exert upon those of the lower when in contact with them. 1 have recently seen a similar case where the increase of growth had taken place in the upper jaw, in consequence of a deficiency in the lower. Necrosis of the jaws, as a result of the phosphorus poison, is now rarely seen, in consequence of the common phosphorus being less fre- Phosphorus quently employed than formerly in the making of lucifer matches. Dr. necrosis. Bristowe, in his report to the Privy Council in 1863, clearly showed that it is to its influence the disease is to be attributed, the amorphous phosphorus being harmless. The first notice of the affection in this country was by my colleague Dr. Wilks, in the ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1847, page 163. The disease is acute in every sense. It may involve a part only, or, the whole of the upper or lower jaw, both seeming Symptoms.' to he equally liable to the aflection; but in the majority of cases, the teeth of the affected hone are more or less diseased or deficient. It is a rare thing to find the disease in subjects who have sound teeth, or in those who have a complete set. Some openings down to the bone either through carious or deficient teeth, appear to be necessary to enable the phosphorus fumes to act upon the bone. Dr. J. Ward, of New York, records a case in which the whole hone died and was restored. The disease begins for the most part by a general aching of the teeth. Progress of followed by rapid suppuration and necrosis of the affected bone. The disease, constitutional are usually as severe as the local symptoms. Necrosis may also take place independently of any of the causes already alluded to and may follow as a result of fracture, hut its true cause is generally difficult to ascertain. It is found in both upper and lower jaws. An analysis of fifty consecutive cases shows, that nineteen Statistics of were in the upper, twenty-nine in the lower, and two in both, thus controverting tlie assertion of Stanley which has been repeated by others, that necrosis of the upper jaw is rare. It may show itself at any period Period of of life. I have seen it in an infant a fortnight old, although it is more life, common in the young and middle-aged than in the aged. It may attack pgj.(. any portion of tlie hones, and even the condyloid processes of the lower attacked.