convergent strabismus. 353 Convergent straWsmns, as just stated, is nearly always the result of hypermetropia. The question naturally arises. How does hypermetropia produce it ? , j . i. i The hypermetropic individual must always accomrnodate strongly when looking at even a distant object; and as the object is brought nearer, the tension of accommodation must be correspondingly in- creased. As stated at page 303, accommodation is associated with convergence of the visual lines. Now, the greater the degree of con- vergence the more strongly is the accommodation brought into play; consequently there is an ever increasing tendency on the part of the hypermetropic individual to converge too much, in order to bring his accommodation into the highest possible state of tension. If the convergence of the visual lines be excessive, or if they do not meet in the same point, convergent strabismus results. The question next arises, Why do not all hypermetropic individuals squint ? The reason is that if both eyes are of the same refraction, and have equal acuteness of sight, there is always such a desire to maintain binocular vision that the visual lines will remain directed to the same point, even though the eyes are not accurately accommodated for that point, the individual being content with ill-defined retinal images rather than sacrifice binocular vision by increasing his con- vergence. But if vision of one eye be less acute than that of the other, or if there be a difference of refraction between the two, the desire for binocular vision is lost, or its value very much lessened, and the necessity for a well-defined image on one retina is immediately felt. The accommodation is put fully on the stretch, and with it the degree of convergence becomes excessive, both visual lines being directed to points nearer to the eyes than that for which they are accommodated, the deviation of the more defective eye being greater than that of its fellow. Treatment.—Slight cases of convergent strabismus, especially if the deviation is not constantly present, but only occasional (periodic squint), may be cured by the use of glasses which accurately neutralize the existing hypermetropia. In more severe cases division of the internal rectus tendon in one or both eyes is necessary. It is often difficult to decide whether only one or both eyes shall be operated on. If it is found that one eye squints habitually and to no great extent, the other being always used for fixing an object, only deviating slightly when it is excUided, and an attempt made to fix with the habitually squinting eye, division of the internal rectus of that eye which habitu- ally deviates alone is necessary. If each eye deviates altern.ately (alternating strabismus), and to the same extent, division of one internal rectus may be sufficient; but if three weeks or a month after the operation the squint still con- tinues, tenotomy of the internal rectus of the other eye should be performed. If one eye squints considerably and habitually, the other having an inclination to deviate at times, and if this deviation becomes excessive when the eye is excluded and an object fixed with the habitually squinting eye, the internal rectus in both eyes must be VOL. I. 23 Convergent strabismus. Connection with hyper- metropia. Treatment. Periodic strabismus. Alternating strabismus.