431 DISEASES OF THE AETERIES. known as a dissecting aneurism may be produced ; but in other cases the inner coat is so raised by the clot of blood behind it that the arterial canal becomes closed, and gangrene of the parts supplied by the occluded vessel may ensue. In a preparation in Guy’s Museum (1465), the aorta was thus affected, causing gangrene of the extremities. In others, the vessel may rupture, and cause death from haemorrhage. In rarer cases, the vessel may be completely closed by the calcareous disease, in some the roughened raised patches become the centres of fibrinous adhesions which may either cause occlusion of the vessel directly by their size, or, indirectly, by being carried into more distant arteries, as emboli. In both cases gangrene of the parts thus deprived of blood will be produced. Senile gangrene doubtless is occasionally caused in this manner. Thus it is seen that this atheromatous disease of the arteries is often the cause of gangrene of a part by direct occlusion of the vessel as well as by embolism. As a general rule, however, in those instances in which portions of artery are found to be withered and converted into fibrous cords, evidence is wanting of arteritis being the cause. Recent investigations tend to show too that such changes are the natural result of an obstruction of the vessel, and that this obstruc- tion is probably due to a plugging of the canal by a clot, or to w’hat is now known as an embolus. Fatty degeneration of the inner, and a primary calcareous change in the muscidar or middle coat of medium-sized vessels must also be mentioned. These may be and no doubt are mostly associated with chronic inflammatory changes in the arterial system, but there is also reason to believe that sometimes they are essentially primary degenera- tions which lead to contraction of the vessels and senile gangrene, as do atheromatous changes. Embolism is a somewhat common affection and consists in the occlusion of a vessel, large or small, by a plug of fibrin or calcareous matter, carried by the blood from some distant part, and, generally from the heart. The physician meets w-ith it in cases of paralysis more or less complete, from the plugging of a cerebral vessel, associated with valvular disease of the heart, acute rheumatism, or aortic disease. The surgeon meets with it in certain forms of amaurosis and local gangrene, and, as a precursor of aneurism. The pathologist sees it in the fibrinous clots (infarcta) found frequently in the lungs, spleen, kidneys, or other organs. The symptoms of embolic occlusion of au artery are, sudden and severe pain in the part from which the circulation is cut off, the pain in some cases extending down the whole course of the artery ; in others it is a local numbness; whilst tenderness is usually present in the course of the vessel. Symptoms of a deficient circulation in the part soon appear, such as coldness and pallor of the skin, which may go on to complete gangrene. All cases of embolic occlusion of an artery, however, do not end in death of the part, since in patients of good power the collateral circulation may become subsequently established and a recovery follow. In patients of feeble power gangrene is to be feared. In not a few cases, embolism leads to the formation of an aneurism. A woman, set. 47, who never had any illness, was seized in June 1868, with a mild attack of hemiplegia on the left side, from which Formation of dissecting aneurism. Atheroma often a cause of gangrene. On embolism. E.xamples of the arterial form. Symptoms of arterial embolism. Example of gangrene due to embolism.