49 ERYSIPELAS. of small particles of clot. Where the disease has existed some time a tube of semi-organized clot may line the vein, and within that will be Local, found the broken-down clot which it is often impossible, micro- scopically, to distinguish from pus. It is quite as common, if not more so, however, to find the vessels unaffected as to find them plugged. Pus may even run along their course, sometimes apparently in their adventitia, but generally imme- diately outside it, and still lead to no clotting. On microscopical ex- amination in these cases the pus is seen to lie in smooth-walled channels which in all probability are lymphatic spaces (suppurative lym- phangitis). The neighbouring lymphatic glands, i. e. those in the groin if the disease be situated in the leg—the axillary, if in the arm,—are usually swollen, red, and ecchymosed on section, and are frequently sur- rounded by the same kind of serous fluid as is found in the immediate neighbourhood of the primarily diseased tissue. The tissues of all the diseased parts are said to be crowded with small vegetable organisms called bacteria. These constitute the local changes. It may be as well to add, perhaps, when erysipelas affects the scalp, that a yellow colour of the vault of the skull is often observed, and also that suppuration be- tween the bone and dura mater and suppurative arachnitis and menin- gitis are not very unusual sequences. About the neck it may be followed by oedema glottidis, and occasionally by pericarditis or suppurative in- flammation of the mediastinum. The morbid appearances in the system at large are similar to General, those found in septicaemia from other causes, viz., ecchymoses about the pleura and pericardium; a fluid and sometimes treacly state of the hlood, congested kidneys, and a softened state of the liver and spleen. So soft, indeed, is the latter organ that were it not for its capsule it would at times lose all shape. The blood has been said to contain bac- Bacteria, teria, but I have never found such during life, though they are sometimes present when the blood is examined some hours after death. In addi- tion to these general changes, separate foci of diffuse cellulitis are found—in both forearms and in the calf of the leg, for instance, after a primary erysipelatous state of the scrotum—and in at least two recorded cases a similar diffuse cellulitis or myocarditis has been noticed in the muscular wall of the heart. Patients with erysipelas are also liable to suppurative peritonitis and pleurisy, w’hich, though commonly so, are not necessarily determined by the presence of a neighbouring wound. A subject of hernia or ovariotomy at a time when erysipelas is rife will be likely enough to die of suppurative peritonitis j while another who has undergone an excision of the breast may die of a similar form of pleurisy without showing any external evidence of erysipelas. A wound, however, is not necessary. For example, in a post-mortem made not long since, a lady about sixty had been nursing a friend who died of some febrile affection called “low fever.” Withiu a few days she hCTself became exceedingly ill and died quickly. The inspection revealed what had only been evidenced by the faintest blush on the skin during . early suppurative inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pectoral region, and pus on the surfaces of both pleurae : all this without any external wound whatever. As occasional causes of death in erysipelas may also be mentione acute lobar pneumonia, and a diphtheritic sloughing of the mucous co