51 ERYSIPELAS. where they can he applied, are the best, especially when medicated with poppy, hop, or chamomile. Cold applications are injurious. In the face and head, when the parts are very tense and painful, relief is readily given by following the practice of Sir R. Dobson in puncturing the skin with a series of small punctures—oozing of blood or serum being encouraged by warm applications. Mr. Luke thought highly of the free use of collodion, applied over the part; Mr.Norris, of the compound tincture of iodine; Mr. Higginbottom, of a solution of nitrate of silver, twenty grains to the drachm of water; others, of the sulphate of iron a drachm to a pint. The tincture of the perchloride of iron has also been recommended for the same purpose. I have employed at times all these, likewise a mixture of iron and glycerine, but none of them have any certain power of arresting the progress of the disease; in some cases success seems to attend their use, but in others they appear valueless. Some American surgeons speak strongly in favour of the application of a solution of bromine on lint, with oil-silk over the whole; and quite recently the subcutaneous injection of a solution of carbolic acid has been highly spoken of. Mr. De Morgan believes there are not many things more comforting to the patient than a thick layer of cotton wool placed over the part, to which powder or collodion has been applied. The local treatment of the cellulo-cutaneous forms of the disease pf must be conducted on the same principles as the simple, but as soon ceUuio- as anything like tension of the integument appears—this tension being cutaneous clearly caused by the presence of inflammatory exudation in the sub- cutaneous tissue—incisions should be made deep enough to allow of incisions, the escape of the effused serum from the cellular tissue beneath the skin, and long enough to relieve the tension of the whole. Some, and amongst them the late Sir W. Lawrence, recommended the incision to be free, so as to extend the whole length of the affected part. Others, among whom I claim a place, prefer a greater number of limited incisions. These limited incisions answer the same purpose as the long, and are not attended with so copious a hmmorrhage, or with so great a risk to life. Even after these the bleeding is at times profuse, but it may generally be readily arrested by elevating the limb and by temporary pressure. When suppuration and sloughing exist the surgeon must let out all Relieve matter as soon as foi’med, for there is little doubt that the disease is kept up by its presence. The opening into these abscesses should be free, and their cavities kept clean by careful washing out at each dress- ing, a detail which adds materially to the comfort of the patient and the well-doing of the case. Condy’s fluid or iodine lotion should be employed. De Morgan prefers a solution of chloride of zinc, fifteen grains to the ounce. Water dressings should be applied to the parts, and frequently changed, a warm fomentation over the lint being often useful. Poultices are not so good, although at times patients say they derive the most comfort from them. During the period of repair the surgeon will often have to lay open sinuses. When the sloughing has been very severe amputation may be called for. It has ever to be borne in mind that erysipelas is highly contagions and Avoid infectious. In hospital practice, consequently, every case, as it arises, ca^^th'" should be separated from others in which wounds exist, and transferred infecfion.^