TUMOURS OF THE UMBILICUS. 641 was found to account foi‘ this sudden end, that is, there was no em- bolism or heart trouble, no brain disease, nothing but a large hydatid cyst behind the liver. The needle had, however, passed through a mis- placed portal vein on its way to the hydatid, and the question arose as to the possibility of death being due to the mixing of the hydatid fluid with the venous blood. No blood was extravasated (Clin. Society, 1878). My colleagues. Dr. Fagge and Mr. Durham, have given us some evidence that a cure can be obtained by electrolytic treatment. Electrolysis. I on Dr. Althaus’s plan of introducing into the tumour two electrolytic needles, one or two inches apart, connected by means of wire to the negative pole of a galvanic battery of ten cells, and completing the current through the tumour by means of a moistened sponge, attached to the positive pole of the battery, applied for ten or more minutes at a time to different points over the swelling. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. liv.) This operation may be repeated according to circum- stances. Such treatment may he employed when simple tapping fails to cure. Some of the patients reported as cured by these means have returned, however, with the disease, and it is still a question whether more is gained by this method than by simple puncture and the withdrawal of some of the hydatid fluid. Further information may be gained from Murchison’s work on the liver, 1868, Harley’s paper, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlix., and Dr. Bird, of Melbourne’s, book. Tumours of the Umbilicus. Pedunculated outgrowths from the umbilicus are not uncommon and always found in children, being composed of simple granula- tion tissue; indeed, it seems probable that they are really due to excess of granulation growth from the point at which the umbilical cord sepa- rated. They sometimes attain a large size, and have occasionally a slight central canal or orifice, though the former never travels far. I have seen one the size of the last joint of my little finger. They are easily cured by the application of a ligature to their bases. These tumours, however, must not be confounded with a condition that is occasionally met with, viz. the presence of a fleshy outgrowth not unlike a glaus penis, through which a real canal extends into the bladder, the canal being clearly an open urachus. I have seen only one such case, and recorded it in my Lettsomian lectures on the sur- gical diseases of children, 1863. 1 wished to cauterise the surface of the canal and thus cause its contraction and closure, but was not allowed. 1 have also seen a large hernial protrusion appear at the umbilicus, with the whole surface ulcerated, in which there were some solid con- tents which I took to be the liver. It subsequently completely cicatrised and a good recovery ensued. The drawing of this case is in Guy’s Hospital Museum {vide fig. 284). Sebaceous tumours, as well as accumulations of sebaceous matter are also met with at the umbilicus in duty people. 1 have turned out large masses of such indurated secretion from the cup-like depression. Cancerous tumours, &c., as well as simple warty growths and syphi- litic condylomata, may also exist in the same position. VOL. I. 41 Pedunciilftted uinbiliCHl growths. Piitciit uruchus. Ulcerated lieruial protrusion. Sebaceous deposits. Cancerous, warty, and syphilitic tumours.