MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOURS. 136 three branches, viz. infection of site, of gland, and of viscera, is not seen equally in all the sorts of infectious tumours. This is significant, and needs working out. It is convenient to call imperfectly malignant tumours semi-malignant. Sir J. Paget proposed the term recurrent fibroid for spindle-cell sarcoma, and its use was at one time general, but is now giving way to the more systematic term. Some classification of the partially infectious tumours by their kinds of infectiousness may be agreed upon, but as yet the time has not come for it. OSTEOMA, OSTEOID CHONDROMA, ENCHONDROMA. Vide Fig. 28. When bone forms a large part or apparently the whole of a tumour, the tumour is called an osteoma j but no tumour is ever formed alto- gether of bone, thei’e is always present an ossifying matri.x by the ossification of which the bony part of the growth enlarges. The kind of matrix varies much; thus, sarcomata or even carcinomata may directly ossify, and so we get osteosarcoma and osteo-carcinoma; but the kinds of matrix which produce growths of practically a bony nature are generally two, viz. periosteum and cartilage. Periosteum, or to speak more exactly a tissue resembling closely the deeper layer of the periosteum, forms large tumours whose transformation into bone takes place in the manner shown in the left side of Fig. 28; the cells take the shape of bone-cells, and the matrix calcifies; these tumours are called osteoid chondroma or 'periosteoma. Cartilage often appears to be ossified when it is only petrified by deposit of calcareous salts in its matrix (see right side of Fig. 28); this change is, as is well known, the first step in ossification of cartilage. In many cartilage-tumours the process goes no further, or it may pro- ceed to complete ossificatiou through the several stages shown in the right side of the figure, viz. vacuolation, formation of medulla-cells in the vacuoles, and direct transformation of these to bone-cells, as seen in the lower and right part of the drawing. More rarely the cartilage- cells, without calcifying, proliferate and change directly into bone, as seen in the middle of the figure. The amount of cartilage, periosteum, or bone, present varies in- definitely in different cases. When cartilage preponderates the tumour is called an enchondroma; when bone prepouderate.s, an exostosis, osteoma, &c., according to its shape and connections; when periosteum preponderates, an osteoid chondroma, as before said. Occasionally the amount of bone and cartilage is so equal that it is a matter of difficulty to decide which name shall be used; and then the terms cartilaginous exostosis or ossifying enchondroma are em- ployed. Osteoid chondromata are to be suspected of malignancy; such tumours compose a part of what were called osteoid cancers.