279 CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. tension of the patient’s body by manual suspension from a bar or pulley ; yet, it should be remembered, that a weak spine is being dealt with, and anything like violence may be very detrimental. Should the curvature have been encouraged by any faulty habit, such as standing on one leg, or in one position, or the use of one arm, it is almost needless to say that the habit should be discontinued. The objects of treatment are, therefore—1. To improve the general General condition of the body. 2. To give rest to the strained and weakened objects of muscles and ligaments. 3. To strengthen the muscles that support the treatment, spine by exercise, which must be carefully regulated to prevent fatigue. 4. To restore the spine to its normal direction by posture, and by pres- sure applied in the horizontal position. Mechanical contrivances have been much vaunted, and are often on employed. I confess, however, to having little faith in their value as mechanical curative agents. They tend to cause atrophy of the muscles that sup- support, port the back instead of strengthening them, and thus to make the deformity permanent. In bad and exceptional cases they may, how- Useful in ever, be employed when the treatment sketched out cannot be borne exceptional or is inapplicable, and of all supports that of Sayre’s is the best. <=sses. When the deformity is irremediabie and support essential to allow the patient to move about, such an instrument is of great value. It is probable that the deformity in its early stage chiefly arises from a compressed condition of the intervertebral substance, it being well known that this material is capable of being compressed one fourth of its thickness. Hence a person by maintaining the erect posture during the day, will be an inch shorter at night than in the morning. Any lateral curvature of the spine, however produced, unless remedied, will increase and he complicated with rotation. When unequal ver- tical compression is therefore kept up, the deformity produced by it becomes permanent, and the growing bones necessarily assume shapes and positions corresponding to the deformity, and tending to increase it. Angular Curvature of the Spine. This, which is generally known as Pott’s curvature, is due to a Angular destructive inflammatory change of the bodies of the vertebrm and curvature, intervertebral substances. It begins usually in the latter structure, although the bone itself may be its primary seat, and is at times asso- paiiiology ciated with tubercular deposit in the tissue, though there is no exddence to prove that it is always due to the presence of tubercle. The curva- ure is directly due to the destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae and the intervening intervertebral substance, the upper vertebra falling down towards the lower, and joining with it. When the bodies of many of the vertebrae are involved, the deformity will be severe; a pre- paration in Guy’s Museum (1006^“, Fig. 84) shows the bodies of twelve vertebrae implicated, but a cure resulted. Paralysis may Spinal attend this affection, though it is rare to find the cord involved in the par^ysis. disease; the most destructive changes taking place in the bones; great deformity, even to an acute bending of the cord, may exist, without giving rise to nervous complication (Fig. 85). The paralysis too may be lasting, but more commonly is only temporary. Angular curva- ture may occur at any period of life, but is more liable to appear during the growth and development of the spine; and, consequently, is more frequently found in childhood. From a remarkable preparation in the