CYSTS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 193 In Graves’s disease iodine appears to be not only useless but injurious. Tonics, more particularly iron, are apparently the most Tonics, applicable. In exceptional cases a goitre may so increase and press upon tue larynx and surrounding parts as to threaten life, and may even cause death by a gradual process of suffocation, but more commonly by excit- ing some sudden laryngeal spasm. In 1869 I treated such a case, sent to gf me by Mr. Holman, of East Hoathly, in which a large thyroid gland laryneeal was causing chronic suffocation by its mechanical pressure, and it ulti- muscles, mately produced immediate death by exciting some laryngeal spasm. Dr. Herbert Davies has recorded a similar case (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ 1849), and in the Museums of St. George’s and Bartholomew’s Hospitals preparations exist with similar histories. In some cases the treatment by setons has been of value, suppura- Setons. tion of the thyroid having been followed by a rapid subsidence of the hypertrophied or fibrous structure of the gland. Mr. Hey, of Leeds, adopted this practice with much success. In other examples of goitre the question of operative interference may have to be entertained, and will be considered in another page. Cystic Bronchocele. On cystic C^sis are often met with in this gland, and occasionally they assume broncliocele. large dimensions. They appear as more or less globular, tense, fluctu- ating tumours, moving up and down with the larynx, as all thyroid Cliaracters. tumours do. They may contain only the glairy fiuid of the gland, or a Contents. I more serous or sanguineous fluid, or old grnmous blood. Occasionally I on being punctured they will go on bleeding even to the death of i the patient. Such cysts appear either in one or other lobe or in the i isthmus. In 1872 I treated, with Dr. Hess, a case of blood-cyst of the 1 isthmus in a girl, and drew off about half an ounce of a thick, grumous, j coffee-looking fluid. In 1863 1 tapped a cyst, the size of a cocoa-nut. Treatment b\ i in the right lobe of the thyi'oid of a woman set. 26, which bled pro- tapping. 1 fusely, and the hseinorrhage was only arrested by closing the wound. 1! The cyst filled up at once nearly to its former size, but subsequently ^ gradually contracted, and after five or six years scarcely any remains of ti it could be found. Simply tapping a serous cyst may cure it. When li it fails, the cyst may be injected with a solution of iodine varying in a strength from five to teir minims of the compound tincture to a I drachm of water or simple alcohol. When these fail, a seton lias been Selou. <> recommended, which is, however, a dangei’ous practice, and should only II be adopted when simpler means are unavailing and further interference < is requisite. In cysts of the isthmus, more particularly blood-cysts, I an incision into the cavity is a good and successful operation. Should Free incision a cyst after tapping suppurate, it must be dealt with as an abscess, I and freely opened as soon as the existence of pus can be made out, for :l the thyroid is in a dangerous position for suppuration to occur. I have successfully treated one case of suppurating thj’roid cyst, after I tapping by incision, but the cases in which this treatment is called '( for are rare. Dr. M. Mackenzie has (‘ Lancet,’ May, 1872) advocated the prac- Mackenzie’s ' tice of converting the cystic disease of the thyroid into a chronic abscess by the following means;—“ First empty the cyst. When prac- I ticable, it is well to make the puncture as near as possible to the median c line, and to select the most dependent portion of the tumour for the VOL. I. 13