639 HYDATID TUMOUES. india-rubber tube is attached to the canula at right angles, and they are very good j but those I have named are ample. The patient should be brought to the edge of the bed and placed in Position of the recumbent position, with the shoulders raised; a folded sheet or patient, piece of mackintosh cloth having been previously so arranged as to protect the sheets. A catheter should first be passed, then with the trocar and canula warmed and oiled, and a pail at hand, into which the Details of end of the india-rubber tube is allowed to hang, the surgeon may with a operation, lancet make a small incision through the skin and soft parts, about three inches below the umbilicus, or at any other spot at which the operation is to be performed. He should next introduce the trocar and canula with a direct force and semi-rotatory movement of the wrist, guarding, with his forefinger fixed about one inch from the end of the canula, against inserting the trocar too far. The abdomen having been pnnc- tured, the ti'ocar may be removed with the right hand, the canula being pushed further in at the same moment with the thumb, and its orifice plugged at once with the left thumb, to prevent the escape of fluid. The silver plug of the india-rubber tube may then be introduced and the fluid allowed to escape, the distal end of the tube being kept sub- merged in the fluid in the receptacle ; the tube acting as a syphon. To facilitate the flow and to evacuate the whole contents of the cavity, some surgeons roll the patient over on the side, or place him so at the first; but such a proceeding is nnnecessary. When the fluid has ceased to flow, the canula is to be gently re- Mode of moved, the thumb and Anger of the left hand nipping up the soft pai-ts tiniahiiig the as its end appears, so as to prevent the admission of air into the abdo- °P®r““on. minal cavity, and the trickling of any fluid down the patient. The edges of the wound may then be adapted by a piece of good strapping, and a pad of lint applied when oozing appears, but not otherwise j two or three bands of strapping, three inches wide, should then be adjusted to the front of the abdomen from side to side. Where great hollowness is left, a pad of cotton wool often gives comfort. The old-fashioned flannel bandage may be abolished, as it is only an incon- venience. All pressure on the abdomen during the flow of the fluid should be avoided as unnecessary, and also all pressure after the operation; support only being required. The usual place to perform the operation is in the linea alba, about Site of the two or three inches below the umbilicus; but in ovarian disease any operation, point in the linea semilunaris may be opened, and in rare cases any other. When a hydatid, renal or splenic cyst requires to be tapped a small trocar and canula, such as is employed for tapping a hydrocele, should be used; though in these cases, the Pneumatic Aspirator is of great Use of service, for by its use the fluid can be removed without the possibility aspirator, of air being introduced. Hydatid tumours of the liver, spleen, or other parts of the abdomen are occasionally met Hyaaiid with, and, however large a size they attain they rarely produce other abdominal symptoms than those mechanically caused by their size, and on that account they may require treatment. Their origin is indicated by their position, although when situated in the pelvis, there may be an impossibility in diagnosing them from ovarian cysts. They are almost always very globular and tense, and rarely give rise to distinct