CATARACT, 372 Sharp-hook extraction. Suction. Instruments required. fully withdrawn, carrying the cataract with it, the removal being assisted by gentle pressure on the exterior of the globe. Removal of cataract with the sharp hook (sharp-hook extraction). The hook should be passed well behind the lens in the same manner as the scoop, fixed into its posterior surface, and then carefully with- drawn, carrying the lens with it. Two sharp hooks may be used in- stead of one, and should be fixed into the lens at different points, so as to prevent it rolling round (as sometimes happens when only one hook is used), instead of passing in the desired direction. After removal of the lens by either method both eyes should be bound up in the usual way. Suction,—The removal of cataract by suction is indicated in cases where the lens has become nearly or entirely fluid, as occurs in many instances of traumatic cataract, and frequently after a needle operation has been performed. The instruments required are a wire Speculum, toothed forceps, broad needle, and suction tube (Figs, 97, 99a, 105 a, b). Before operat- ing, the pupil should be well dilated with atropine, (For position of patient and surgeon see Fig, 94, p. 340,) It is best, but not absolutely necessary, to place the patient under the influence of an anaesthetic. The lids should be kept open by a wire speculum, the eyeball fixed by the toothed forceps, and a small linear incision made in the cornea with the broad needle, about midway between its summit and margin, in any convenient position. The operator should then place tbe mouth-piece of the suction tub* using suction in his mouth, pass its nozzle through the incision and behind the *’“*’*• softened lens, and, by sucking gently, remove as much lens matter as will come away easily. No force must be used, and if any portion of the lens be too hard to pass easily into the tube it may be left to become absorbed or be dealt with on a future occasion. When as much lens as will easily come away has been extracted the suction tube should be removed, the speculum taken out, a drop of solution of atro- pine placed between the lids, and the eyes bandaged in the usual way. The bandage should be continued, and the pupil kept dilated with atropine, until all irritation has subsided. Method of Accidents which may happen. Bleeding into anterior chamber. Accidents daring Extraction of Cataract. Premature escape of aqueous humour. If care be not taken in making the section the aqueous humour may escape too soon, and the movements of the knife be hampered by the iris falling forwards. Should this happen, the knife must be carefully withdrawn and the section completed with scissors. Bleeding into the anterior chamber. In some cases hmmorrhage from the cut iris takes place to such an extent as to fill the anterior chamber with blood and hide the cataract entirely from view. If the blood does not flow out easily on placing the curette between the lips of the incision and making gentle pressure on the cornea the operation should be discontinued, the eye bound up, and left till the blood has become absorbed, unless the lens-capsule has been lacerated, in which case the lens must be removed at all risks, or it may swell, press upon surrounding parts, set up inflammatory action,