454 TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. AiitvHus ami ‘ Mfid.-Cliir. Trans.,’ vol. xliii. Vas-aberrans. to the main trunk, it will be fair to infer, that a ‘ vas aberrans’ exists, by which the blood is brought direct to the aneurism, and which must be ligatured before a cure can be expected. At times, the existence of this ‘ vas aberrans ’ may be made out at the time of operation when the vessel must be looked for before the main trunk is tied; indeed, it may be possible that no necessity will be found to tie the main trunk, as the operation for aneurism is to tie the vessel that supplies the sac, and this may be connected only with the ‘vas aberrans’ Should it not be possible to apply a ligature to the supplying vessel, other means may be employed, such as compression, or flexion, but, in all probability these had been previously tried and failed, and, under such circumstances a second ligature may have to be put on near the sac; or the original oi^eration for aneurism— Operations of that of Autyllus, practised more recently by Syine—may be re- quired, which is, the laying open of the sac of the aneurism and the application of a ligature above and below its connection with the artery. To do this, however, much boldness and operative skill are necessary to prevent a fatal haemorrhage. With this object, in a case of axillary aneurism, Mr. Syme made an incision above the clavicle along the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to enable an assistant to com- press the subclavian artery against the first rib; acting upou the same principle as he adopted thirty years before when he made an incision behind the angle of the jaw to enable an assistant to compress the internal maxillary artery before the removal of the upper jaw. In 1861, he laid open a gluteal aneurism, having previously thrust a bis- toury into the tumour over the situation of the gluteal artery and introduced a finger so as to prevent the blood from fiowiug except by occasional gushes. He eventually thrust his hand into the sac, rapidly turned out the clot, and had the bleeding orifice at once under sub- jection by the pressure of the hand. Both cases did well. Still this ])ractice is only applicable to desperate cases where all other modes of treatment have failed, or are out of the question. In aneurisms of small arteries, however, it is very applicable. I successfully employed it, some years ago, in a case of aneurism of the radial artery; and again in October, 1871, in a case of traumatic aneurism of the radial, where the vessel was pmnetured, about the middle of the arm. In the latter, I divided the vessel completely, and twisted both ends, a rajud recovery following. When a ligature cannot be applied to the cardiac side of an aneurism, and the treatment by compression has failed or is inapplicable, Brasdor’s, or the distal operation may be entertained. This con- sists in the application of a ligature to the vessel as it leaves the aneurism (Big. 135). It is not, however, an operation that can be recommended with any confidence, except for carotid aneurism. Wardrop performed it in several eases with success. The distal operation of the left carotid artery for the cure of aortic aneurism, is, however, well worthy of attention as is proved by the cases of C. Heath, Annandale, Holmes, and Harwell. The credit of the suggestion, however, must be given to Dr. Cockle, wdio wrote on the subject (‘ Lancet,’ 1869), although three or four cases had previously been recorded in which the operation had been performed for sup- posed carotid aneurism with success. In aneurism of the in- nominate artery, it is also open to the surgeon to ligature the Brasdor’a or distal operation. Distal operation in aortic aneurism.