INJURIES OF THE BRAIN COMPLICATING FRACTURE. 217 In compression from hsemorrhage this “ interval of time,” provided it be a short time, between the accident and the occurrence of the sym- Fiq. 69. Drawing showing clot (i) external to the dura mater (c) from laceration of the middle meningeal artery (a) following a fracture. (Drawing 60*®, from a case of Hilton’s, G. H. M.) ptoms is most important from a diagnostic point of view ; it is very Persistency commonly, although not constantly, present; but, when present, it is symptoms characteristic of hsemorrlinge in some form. The symptoms, to be those of compression' must also he lasting; nor must they be mistaken for the “ relapsing unconsciousness ” of a shaken brain, to which attention has been already directed. The persistency of the symptoms is conse- I quently a valuable diagnostic symptom. i But it may be asked, how is extravasation of blood, the result of a lacerated meningeal artery and therefore outside the dura mater, to be I diagnosed from extravasation of blood within the cavity of the arach- I noid, upon the surface of the brain, or within the brain itself? For i under all these circumstances the symptoms may appear some time i after the accident, the inference drawn from the “ interval of time ” j being the same in each; under all, the symptoms of compression will i he identical, for they will he those of apoplexy, and, as in apoplexy, 1 varying in each case; for “when extravasation takes place on the p surface or within the substance of the brain, it is accompanied, and, K indeed, produced by lesion of the cerebral texture, which lesion is I mostly indicated by paralysis, by irritation or spasmodic action affect- ' ing some particular part, by derangement of the pupils, or by other Q symptoms.” (Cock.) The surgeon’s best guide, however, in forming his diagnosis will always he the history of the case, when it can be a obtained, and also the nature of the accident. t In uncomplicated cases of haemorrhage external to the dura mater Blood I the injury is generally a local one, produced by a sharp blow or fall; external to I the brain, as a whole, is not shaken or injured ; the symptoms of com- mater. » pression are, moreover, generally very marked and rapidly produced, I and the paralysis of half the body is also commonly complete, t In cases of haemorrhage into the arachnoid cavity, or upon the sur- t face of the brain, the injury is mostly of a general character, such as a dura mater.