ON EBPAIR AND INFLAMMATION. 11 uei'ves terminate in the tissues, and what relation they hear to the capillaries—before we can hope to find out or understand the exact in- fluence nerve supply has on repair. All wounds do not, however, heal by immediate union, or by primary c. Repair by adhesion, i.e, first intention, and wounds that gape cannot so unite. The granulation, process of repair in these, therefore, differs somewhat in its character from those we have been considering; it taf:es place hy granulation. Development or the “ second intention ” of Hunter. If we closely examine the "i*' surface of a wound thus exposed, we shall find that it becomes within ^ a few hours of its exposure covered with a film of a peculiar gelatinous, greyish-white appearanc6. This will be seen with the aid of the micro- scope to be composed of granulation-cells or white blood-cells. If the edges of the wound are then brought together, union may take place, this form of healing being termed secondary adhesion. After an interval of some hours the parts covered with this gelatinous greyish film become more vascular, as indicated by redness, and the surface more even. The film itself assumes a tougher character, and a yellow fluid, which is mixed with small yellow sloughs of fibrinous tissue, is secreted. The wound begins “ to clean,” and to have a smooth and consistent surface. After the lapse of another day, or some days, perhaps, this surface is covered with a number of elevations, known by the name of granulations, varying in size from a millet-seed to a hemp-seed, the smaller being highly vascular and red, the larger being, as a rule, paler and more bloodless. The wound at this time is “ granulating.’’ The secretion from these granulations is now of a creamy-yellow character, and is called pus. They are made up of cells called granulation Secretes pus. cells and resemble inflammatory lymph-cells. Each granulation contains a vessel, the walls of which consist of a thin membrane, in which nuclei are embedded. “ Some of these nuclei are arranged Section of longitudinally, others transversely to the axis of the vessels. In the granulation, development of these vessels changes occur, answering to those seen in ordinary embryonic development. Organisation makes some pro- gress before blood comes to the very substance of the growing part; for the form of cells may be assumed before the granulations become vascular. But for their continuous active growth and development fresh material from blood, and that brought close to them, is essential. For this the blood-vessels are formed, and their size and number Their vascu- appear always proportionate to the volume and rapidity of life of the larisaiion. granulations. No instance would show better the relation of blood to an actively growing or developing part than in one of the vascular loops of a granulation embedded among the crowd of living cells, and maintaining their continual mutations. Nor is it in any case plainer than in that of granulations that the supply of food in a part is proportionate to the activity of its changes, and not to its mere structural development. The vascular loops lie embedded among the simplest primary cells, or when granulations degenerate among struc- tures of yet lower organisation; and as the structures are developed, and connective tissue formed, so the blood-vessels become less numerous till the whole of the new material assumes the paleness and low vascularity of a common scar.” (Paget.) If, at this time, when the granulations have attained to the level of Formation of the skin, we look to the margins of the wound, we shall see a dry red band of newly formed tissue, with an outer border of a bluish-white