FRACTtTRES OF THE JAW. 555 Some surgeons have suggested that the bones should be fastened On use of together by sutures when all other means fail, and Mr. Hugh Owen sutures. Thomas,of Liverpool,has pub- lished cases to illustrate the practice. He applies the wire ligature after the fashion illustrated in Pig. 232, using a l-24th inch silver wire, and I fixing it with a key (Pig. j 232). (‘ Lancet,’ 1867, and I pamphlet, 1875.) In the case of comminuted fracture al- readyalluded to, two or three wire sutures were applied with the best results. Others advise the use of wedges of cork so adjusted between the teeth as to maintain the jaw in its right line. Hamilton speaks highly of gutta percha moulded to the teeth and gums within the mouth, and Tomes has invented a silver cap to fit the teeth for some distance, on each side of the fracture. Barrett carries out the same idea in vulcanite. Berkeley Hill’s modi- fication of Lonsdale’s apparatus is serviceable, and Moon’s splint, as Moon’ made for him by Millikin is also excellent. It has the advantages of all sph'U. the other interdental splints ah-eady enumerated, is readily adapted to a jaw of any size, and, being introduced separately, is easily applied and can be as readily removed when desired, without shitting the cjip which fits the teeth on either side of the fracture. Moon’s splint therefore seems to bo the best interdental one we possess, and it should be used when simpler forms are inapplicable (Pig. 233). Fig. 233. Fio. 234. Fig. 232. Thomas’s mode of adjusting fractures of tlie lower jaw with wire and key. Metal cap fitted over fractured jaw. Ke- presenled as wired on for a time, after the withdrawal of external splint. Moon’s interdental splint made in two halves, BB, with horizontal rods to keep cap, Fig. 233, in position. Among these simpler forms, I must class “ Hammond’s,” which 1 had brought under my notice in 1874, by Mr. Moon. It is a very simple and valuable splint for the general treatment of fractures of the jaw and has answered admirably in all the cases to which I have had it applied. ^ The^ followuig description of the apparatus and its application is given in Mr. Hammond’s own words:— “ I first place the patient in as convenient a position as circumstances will permit, then direct him to rinse the mouth with alcohol and water