LIGATURE OP TIBIAL ARTERIES. 491 The operator should be careful, however, not to divide the tibial origin of the soleus too near the tibia, as in doing so he may penetrate too deep beneath the deep fascia, and thus lose his best guide, viz, the glistening tendinous tibial origin of the soleus. To tie the artery at the lower third of the leg behind the inner malleolus is a simple operation. It lies with its venae comites at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the space between the malleolus and the heel, the nerve being behind. It can readily be ex- posed by a curved incision two inches long over the course of the vessel, dividing integument and deep fascia, which is thick from receiving many fibres from the internal lateral ligament. The relative position of the vessel can easily be seen in the drawing (Fig, 158.) Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery. This operation is far from simple, inasmuch as the vessel lies burled in the upper two thirds of its course between the muscles on the Fig. 159. Tibialis anticus Ligature of the anterior tilhal artery. interosseous membrane; its conrse is indicated by a line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the base of the great toe. The surgical guide to the vessel is the tibialis anticus muscle, which lies to its inner side throughout its course. To reach the vessel in the upper two thirds of its extent it is im- portant to expose the intermuscular space separating this tibial muscle from the extensors communis digitorum and proprius pollicis, and the best way to accomplish this is to make an oblique incision four inches long commencing at the outer edge of the tibia and directed downwards and outwards towards the external malleolus, dividing the integument and superficial fascia. The deep fascia will then be exposed, and the first white line external to the tibia will be found to mark the intermuscular space outside the tibialis anticus muscle in which the anterior tibial artery is to be found. The fascia over this line may then be opened, and the muscles separated, the foot being well fiexed to facilitate this measure. The anterior tibial nerve will then come into view, and beneath it the artei'y will be found. The ligature may be passed as best can be done. Operation on the artery behind the malleolus. Ligature of the anterior tibial. Mode of reaching the vessel.