153 BURNS AND SCALDS. Thus, the danger to life turns upon many points. In both young lu the young and old, all burns or scalds of any extent are serious. At any age “ extensive burns, however superficial, are to be feared, and they become serious from their immediate depressing efifect upon the system; patients sometimes die from shock, and the very bad cases are marked by the sensation of coldness and persistent shivering. When the period of shock has passed, which varies from twelve to forty-eight hours, and that of reaction has set in, other dangers appear. Should the injury be over the thoracic cavity, chest complications may be looked for; and if over the abdomen, intestinal troubles. Burns and scalds of the head are not so likely to be followed by intracranial as those of the chest are by thoracic mischief. All intestinal complications should be carefully Intestinal observed, as there seems to be a liability to irritation of the intestinal complication, mucous tract, which may terminate at times in ulceration. Dupuytren first observed this in a general w'ay, but Long (‘ Lond. Med. Gaz.,’ 1840) and Curling (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxv) showed, that ulcera- tion of the duodenum, as proved by inspection after death, and indi- cated during life by vomiting and purging of blood, is by no means an unfrequent result. Pathologists, however, are not unanimously agreed upon this point. In the second or inflammatory stag e,^C: injured parts are being thrown casting off olF, and most writers allow for this process about fourteen days, though of slougbs. in some cases it is less, and in others more. When, however, the slough has separated, and the parts begin to suppurate, the third stage, or that of suppuration, has commenced. In this stage, although Suppuration, there may be less probability of visceral complications appearing, there is the equally great danger of exhaustion, hectic, or pyaemia. Should these risks have been surmounted, there is yet the long and tedious process of the healing of the granulating surface, and at a still later Granulation, period evils arise connected with the gradual contraction of the cicatricial tissue. This contraction only takes place when the tchole skin has been destroyed. When the surface of the skin merely has been involved, and not its depth, the sore, on the removal of the slough, has a peculiar net-like appearance with a whitish or yellow ground, through the meshes of which granulations project. When a person dies from a burn within forty-eight hours, it arises Cause of from shock or collapse, pain doubtless often adding to its influence; death, when a similar result takes place during the stage of reaction or the in- flammatory stage, it is from visceral complication; and when during the third or suppurative stage, from exhaustion, visceral changes, or pyaemia. When a person is said to have been “ burnt to death,” he dies from suffocation, the fumes of the fire destroying by asphyxia, and the fire subsequently burning the body. Half the cases of burn admitted into a hospital die, aud half of those that die, do so within the first three days. The total deaths in England and Wales in a year from burns and scalds are about 2900, the females not being much in excess of the males. Out of 408 cases consecutively admitted into Guy’s, 275 W'ere Statistics of females, 143 males, the majority being children under five years -408 cases, old. ^Dr. Steele has also shown in his ‘ Septennial Report of Guy’s, for 1868,’ that out of 195 cases of burns from fire, 60 per cent, died; of 169 scalds, 16‘5 per cent, died; of 18 burns from gas e.xplosions.