ELEPHANTIASIS. 181 Homy growths occasionally spring up beneath the nail, as seen in Fig. 55, and ungual exostosis very frequently appears—which is, a bony outgrowth from the extreme phalanx of the great or other toe, as seen in Fig. 56. Both require excision. ELEPHANTIASIS. This term has been applied to two very diflferent diseases, the ^Elephantiasis Qrmcorum, or true leprosy, and the Elephantiasis Arabum, or Cochin or Barbadoes leg. The former is probably constitutional, and appears as a tubei’cular affection of the skin, more especially of the face, attended with some loss of sensation. It is usually ushered in with slight febrile disturbance and local oedema. As it advances, the skin thickens and the tubercles multiply ; the disease spreads, and involves the tongue, mouth, nose, eyes, and even larynx and lungs. In extreme cases ulceration and disease of the bones exist; the subjects of the affection dying from exhaustion, if not from suffocation. It is, happily, rare in this country, although it does occur occasionally; it is, however, common in Norway, in the Mediterranean, and in the Indies. Dr. Webster, in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’ for 1854, and Mr. Day, in the ‘ Madras Quart. Journal ’ for 1860, give valuable information upon the subject, and Dr. Carter, in the ‘ Trans. Med. and Phys. Society of Bombay,’ vol. viii, new series, enters fully into its pathology. The disease has been regarded as incurable, although, since the intro- duction of the Gurjun or wood oil by Dr. Dougall, of the Indian Medical Service, in 1873, better results of its treatment may be expected. The oil is used as an external application, made into an emul- sion with lime water, in the proportion of one part to three, and should be well rubbed in twice a day for two hours at a time. It has also to be taken internally in two-drachm doses mixed with the same quantity of lime water twice a day. With this treatment the tubercles are said to soften down j and in their place watery blebs form, which burst and discharge a clear serous fluid, and then the induration gradually sub- sides. The oil taken internally is a diuretic and purgative. To the surgeon the second form of elephantiasis, or the Elephantiasis Arabum, is of the greatest interest. It is possibly a local affection, and quite distinct from the true leprosy. It appears generally in one or other of the lower extremities,or in the male or female genital organs; showing itself as a general infiltration into the skin and subcutaneous tissue of an organisable material, whereby the integument becomes hypertrophied and greatly thickened. In advanced disease the skin falls into great folds, and, between these, fissures form, which sub- sequently pass into oozing ulcers. At times the foot and leg become the seat of extensive ulceration, which rarely cicatrises. It generally begins with some febrile attack, and the affected part becomes the seat of an erythematous redness and swelling, which sub- sides, again to recur, and each attack leaves some extra thickening behind it. I have observed this very clearly in one case, and have no doubt that the erythema had some distinct relation to the disease. Dr. Wise, of Calcutta, in 1835, looked upon the disease as one of the Homy growths and ungual exostosis. Elepliant'asii Graicorum. Guijun oil. ElenhantiasiE Arabum.