CATARACT. 373 N cause increase of tension of the globe, and very probably lead to de- I struction of the eye. I Prolapse of vitreous humour. If any undue pressure be exerted on the globe during extraction the suspensory ligament of the lens gives way and a prolapse of vitreous follows. Should the prolapse of vitreous occur before the escape of the lens the cataract should be removed as quickly and gently as possible by the aid of a scoop or sharp hook. Prolapse of vitreous is more likely to occur if the humour is abnor- mally fluid. The accident may give rise to no bad results, but is some- times followed by a form of chronic choroiditis which ultimately destroys the eye. If vitreous has been lost great care must be taken to bandage the eye so as to keep the lids immovable and prevent them pressing upon the globe and causing further prolapse. Displacement of the cataract. In some cases, on an attempt being made to press out the lens, the suspensory ligament gives way, and the cataract, instead of coming forwards into the anterior chamber passes behind the iris or sinks backwards into the vitreous chamber; it should, if possible, be re- moved by the scoop or sharp hook. If left within the globe it will probably act as a foreign body, set up inflammation, and destroy the 1 eye. After-treatment of Extraction of Cataract. Immediately after the operation each eye should be covered with two folds of wet lint secured by a bandage, which has been contrived Ifor the purpose by Mr. Dunnage,* of the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital The patient should then be put to bed, where he should remain for three or four days. The lint must be kept constantly wet, and fresh pieces should be (applied every two or three days. On no account should the eye be examined until the end of the first week; if the lids remain in a normal condition we may rest assured that all is going on well, and opening the eye too early can do no good, I and may do a great deal of harm. ti At the end of a week the eye may be opened and its condition IS ascertained. Should the section be healed, the anterior chamber re- I established, and no signs of inflammatory action present, the sound eye can be safely left uncovered, the one that has been operated on 1 being kept bandaged as before, and a large green shade worn over both. 1 At the end of three weeks the bandage may be removed from the eye A on which extraction has been performed, but the shade or protectors ■ should be worn until all undue vascularity has subsided. At the end of about two months (if there be no intolerance of light i or irritability of the eye) glasses should be ordered, two pairs being given; one for going about, and one for reading; convex 13 D will ■: usually be found most suitable for the former purpose, convex 16 D for the latter. But should the patient have been myopic or hypermetropic ■ before the operation, glasses weaker or stronger than these may be : required. I ' Dunnage’s bandage consists of a piece of material of an open texture—tlirough which water will easily run—of such a length as to cover both eyes, and leave some to ■I spare. To each end of this piece are attached tapes by which the bandage is secured. [ Prolapse of vitreous. Displacement of the cataraet. After- treatment. Condition of eyelids. Bandage may be removed. Glasses may be ordered.