CICATEICES. 157 of hair over parts or the whole of the body, wonnds, haemorrhage from the mouth, uose, or ears, loss of sight, smell, speech, hearing, and taste, or, in rare cases, exaltation of these special senses, cataract, imbecility, or abortion. It sometimes leaves arborescent marks on the body even on parts covered by clothes, which have often been described as a kind of photograph of neighbouring trees or other subjects. Persons not killed on the spot usually recover, though some die from exhaustion; recovery can he hastened by tonic treatment; and galvanism is beneficial Treatment, in paralysis. Burns caused by lightning are deep and obstinate; some- times, however, they are mere vesications; and should be treated as other burns. In sudden deaths from lightning the shock to the brain is the cause; the heart is found flaccid and empty, the blood sometimes coagulated ; and Taylor tells us, from Sir C. Scudamore's experiments, that in animals killed by electricity the same conditions existed. The diseases and treatment of cicatrices. Cicatrices or scars however produced, grow with the growth of the On cicatrices individual, and, at the same time, have a tendency to disappear, so that indurated scars may indeed, in time, become non-indurated. In small scars this is often observed, and even in larger it is so occasionally, the large cicatrices of burns becoming soft and pliable. As often as not. Disposition however, the opposite occurs, and the disposition to contract is very contract, formidable, producing deformities of a frightful kind; those of the neck being, perhaps, the most hideous. The arm may be fastened to the side (Pig. 40), and I have seen in one case the head of the humerus displaced forwards beneath the clavicle, and in a second beneath the coracoid process and the development of the upper extremity arrested by the contraction. There is no limit indeed to the effects of such a powerful and constant force as that of cicatricial contraction. Fig. 40. Axillary cicatricial web after burn. Fig. 41. pie surgeon is called npon not unfrequently to remedy these defects, bnerative and where Ins efforts are successful, the surgery is satisfactory, but too measures, olten the result is far from what is required.