709 HEMORRHOIDS. almost always red and arterial, and the mucous projectron is surrounded by skin, more or less pendulous, cedematous or infiltrated with iufiam- matory products (Pig. 290). When the parts are not infiamed, this hsemorrhoidal mass may pro- trude only during defsecation, and return naturally, or, after a little pressure. When the disease has been of long duration, the pile may protrude on the slightest exertion, even on the patient assuming the erect posture or on coughing; the whole mucous membrane of the rectum often participating in the prolapse, and adding to the dis- comfort. The pain attending the development of these piles varies vastly, Pain small haemorrhoids often giving rise to severe local distress, while the larger cause but little. An infiamed pile is, however, always ^ painful, and a prolapsed, strangulated, infiamed one the most of all. Where pain is excessive, and more particularly after defsecation, there is a strong probability that a. fissure or ulcer complicates the case. The amount of haemorrhage bears no proportion to the extent of the Heemorrliage disease. In one of the worst cases of hsemorrhage I ever saw, in which asasymptom. a lady was blanched and almost pulseless, the pile was not larger than half a nut; it was of the reticulated kind, and the blood spurted out from a vessel as large as the radial arteiy. On the removal of the pile, a complete recovery ensued. On the other hand, it is remarkable to what an extent the local disease may develop in some cases without producing excessive bleeding. The bleeding, as a rule, takes place after the action of the bowels, and covers the motion; occasionally it precedes it; but in many in- stances, it is quite independent of all action of the bowels, blood flow- ing on the patient assuming the erect posture, or at odd times without any such cause. The amount of blood said to have been lost, under these circumstances, Loss of blood is somewhat remarkable, writers upon these subjects relating the loss great, of “ three chamber-potfuls,” “ eight or nine pounds,” &c. Doubtless, in many of these accounts there is exaggeration; still, all surgeons must, at times, be astonished at the loss of blood that takes place in these cases daily, sometimes for years, but with little apparent inter- ference with the general health. The discharge of a thick mucus from the anus is a frequent accom- Mucous paniment of this affection, and of a muco-purulent secretion when discharge. ulceration complicates the case. Urinary irritation, and at times retention, in both male and female Urinary subjects, often add to the distress, and in women toomb complications irritation, produce the same effect. Nerve pains passing upwards to the loins, hips, and round the sacrum. Nerve pains, or even downwards to the heel and sole of the foot, are likewise met with. Brodie gives a case in which the heel pain was the most promi- nent feature. What are called dyspeptic symptoms are almost always present, the Dyspepsia, assimilating organs suffering as well as the circulatory and nervous systems. This affection is usually met with after puberty. In early life, men are probably more liable to it than women, but, after forty-five, both appear equally liable. Constipation has probably an important influence in causing the Constipation.