495 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. clot instead of organizing will soften and disintegrate, giving place to blood-stained puriform fluid, that may be carried into the pul- Clot may monary circulation and, causing a lobular pneumonia such as is ^”g[,®tegrate found in pyaemia from embolism of the pulmonary artery. This and escape was well illustrated in the following case, extracted from the catalogue into of the Guy’s Museum, No. 1521®^. Jugular vein exhibiting a wound cnculation. occupying about half its circumference, and situated about half an Example, inch above the subclavian, the neighbouring branches showing the effects of phlebitis.—James F—, set. 30, under Mr. Birkett. He re- ceived a stab with a knife in the left side of the neck which wounded the jugular vein; much hsemorrhage followed and continued for some days, when symptoms of phlebitis set in, and he died of pneumonia twenty days after the accident. The vein was found to be wounded as seen in the preparation, its coats infiltrated with lymph, and its interior filled with fibrin. The lungs were filled with abscesses. Results such as these, however, do not occur under all circum- stances, but only in the feeble and cachectic, for “the clot when softened is usually shut off in an upward and downward direction by newly added coagula. The softening begins in the coagula last formed, and not, as Virchow states, in those first deposited, for in the advance of the malady the patient’s health fails, and the fibrin becomes more and more prone to disintegrate and soften into a puriform fluid.” (Callender.) The clot softens also in the centre and not at its peri- phery, and such cases have been described as examples of suppurative phlehitis. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom of an obstructed vein is Symptoms of oedema of the parts below the obstruction, some fulness of the super- an obstructed ficial veins, local pain and tenderness; constitutional disturbance of variable degrees of severity generally preceding. When superficial veins are involved the symptoms may be chiefly local, but in the case of deep veins, constitutional disturbance is certain sure to accompany local action. Among the superficial veins the saphena of the leg and Superficial thigh is most commonly affected, and is often a sequela of a varicose veins, condition. Under these circumstances, the tortuous, dilated, indurated vein becomes a marked object, set as it were in a frame of hardened inflamed skin and cellular tissue. The parts themselves will, to a cer- tainty be painful, and the pain and tenderness probably extend up the thigh as far as the groin. Among the deep veins, the common femoral or iliac is more frequently involved than any other, and what is known by a “ white leg” is due to this aftection; it being an oedema of the leg from an obstruction to the femoral or iliac vein, and is usually the first symptom that attracts attention. Local pain and tenderness, with more or less constitutional disturbance, always, how- ever, accompany the oedema. In some cases the phlebitis is of a very mild character, and then a good result may be anticipated; but in others it is very severe, and in snch suppurative changes will probably take place. It sometimes happens that a limb becomes much enlarged and solid Deep veins, in the deeper but not in the superficial parts, that is, no oedema of the cellular tissue beneath the skin will be present, although the superficial veins may be turgid. The absence of this symptom, however, must not mislead; as it simply indicates that the superficial circulation is