CATARACT. 367 If the eye be examined in the course of a few days white flocculent lens matter will be seen protruding through the opening in the capsule 1 into the anterior chamber, showing that the lens is swelling and under- going solution. The operation will probably require to be repeated in about a Operation month or six weeks, and possibly on one or two subsequent occasions, ! before the whole lens is absorbed. Care must be taken not to do too ** I much at one sitting, or the lens may swell too rapidly and press upon the surrounding parts, giving rise to severe pain, increased tension of the globe, iritis, cyclitis, &c. Extraction of cataract. Extraction ' The object of operations for extraction of cataract is the removal of the lens through an incision altogether in the cornea or partly in ^ the sclero-corneal margin or sclerotic, the incision being either simple j or associated with excision of a portion of iris. Extraction can be best performed by one of the five following ij methods :—(1) Flap extraction, (2) small fiap with iridectomy, (3) ex- traction by oblique corneal section, (4) linear extraction, (5) extraction by means of a traction instrmnent. In the first and third methods no iris is I removed; in the second, fourth, and last iridectomy should be performed either at the time of removal of the lens or some w'eeks or months previously. All entirely opaque lenses (mature cataracts) may be I removed by the first or third methods; all partially opaque lenses (immature cataracts) must be extracted by the second or fourth, a 1 traction instrument being used in any case where great difficulty is encountered, or where escape of vitreous has taken place before the : lens has been extracted. Fio. 108. e Instruments for extraction of cataract. a. Curette and pricker, b. Triangular cataract knife, c. Straight cataract knife (Graefe’s). d. Sharp hook. e. Scoop. Extraction instruments. f \Ye shall, however, find that in all cases we obtain most uniform ■t success by extraction associated with iridectomy; we should never i