455 ANEURISM. carotid and subclavian arteries consecutively or simultaneously, Mr. Fearn’s case and others having made the repetition of the operation justifiable. In August, 1871, 1 performed VVardrop’s operation on a man, a3t. 33, for innominate aneurism. The subclavian was liga- tured with a carbolised catgut ligature, the wound closed and sealed with lint saturated with the compound tincture of benzoin. A good recovery ensued, and considerable consolidation of the aneurism. The man left the hospital thirty-six days after the opera- tion so well satisfied with the success of the treatment that he did not Wardrop’s opernliun. return to have the carotid ligatured; indeed, he -went on so well up to about six weeks before his death that he thought nothing of his trouble. He died from dyspnoea the result of pressure, in August, 1874, three years after the operation. Alter deatli the aneurism was found to be full of solid clot, and there was a passage through it to the carotid, with a smooth lining. Unfortunately, the gentleman who took out the preparation threw away the bulk of the clot that filled the sac, which was as big as a fist. Tlie success of the operation, how- ever, was most encouraging. The Treatment by Manipulation. This method also requires notice, since it has been introduced by no Ferpussoii’s less a man than Sir W. Fergusson, and is based on natural although metliod by exceptional processes, viz. the embolic occlusion of the distal end of an artery by a dislodged clot. Manipulation may also be employed “ to alter ‘ Med -Cbir. the relations of the laminated fibrine in the cavity of the aneurism, so as Trans.,’ vol. to bring about a further deposition of fibrine on the projecting surfaces of the displaced lamina3” (Oliver Pemberton’s ‘Address on Surgery,’ Brit. Med. Assoc.). In two cases Sir W. Fergusson endeavoured by manipulating the sac to dislodge the clot, and thus give it a chance of being carried by the circulation into the efferent vessel. In both the success was sufficient to sanction the repetition of the means in appropriate cases when all other treatment is out of the question. In 1872, Mr. Herbert Page, of Carlisle, also successfully treated a case of popliteal aneurism by these means. In the cervical aneurism, the dangers of embolism of the cerebral arteries must be borne in mind ; yet at the same time it should be remembered that the Hunterian operation for subclavian aneurism has never been successful, and all other means are nearly out of court. Amputation has, however, been performed under these circumstances with success. Galvano-puncture, or Electrolysis. Galvano- I To induce or assist coagulation of the blood in the sac, other means puncture. I have been suggested, and of these the treatment by galvano-puncture I as advocated by Abeille in 1849 (‘ Arch, Gen. de Medecine’), and by I Ciniselli in 1856, is one of the most promising in theory, though the I practical results have not been equally satisfactory. It consists in the in- ' troduclion of the two needles of a constant current battery into the sac, with the view of coagulating the blood into a firm clot. The practice is > one that can only be entertained in exceptional cases, i.e. in those which Ht cannot from their position be submitted to other forms of operation, r. It is, however, well adapted for the treatment of aneurisms at the root ► of the neck and the thoracic aorta, and possibly for some forms of 1^1 abdominal aneurisms. X The constant current battery should be used, and a moderate current