MICEOSCOPICAL AXATOMT OF TUMOTJES. 132 Construction p of tumours. ( constructive elements peculiar to itself, and these elements are disposed in each tissue in a manner j)roper to that tissue. I need not instance examples, the fact is so familiarly true throughout physiological histology. In the composition of the normal tissues the elements are fitted in form, size, and other characters for their proper use, and they are united together to compose structures which are adapted to their peculiar functions. We have no knowledge of the influences which induce the perfect adaptation we thus observe; but we can appreciate its necessity, since, without such fitness of the parts for their several duties, organisation and organised life would not exist. Now when morhid growths arise in the body, do thej' show any constructive plan parallel to that observed in normal tissues ? Is there any constancy in their elements, any weaving of these elements into structures ? It is only of late years that an attempt has been made to answer this very interesting question by careful study and comparison of the minute anatomy of morbid growths. It has been found that the nature of the elements of those growths, and still more the kinds of texture they compose, serve usefully to indicate the tendencies and consequent dangers which constitute their clinical im- portance as tumours. Surgeons were formerly aware that in the healing of wounds the new materials are made in the likeness of the parts which they adjoin. But this assimilation of newly produced matter to the nature of the tissue adjoining was regarded, so far as it was regarded at all, as in some way the effect of the adjoining tissue. The production of new elements and their employment in construction of organised forms were not traced out as distinct histological processes; nor regarded as showing an active vital power in the new substance itself. And indeed we need to distinguish these processes more plainly even in our own time. When the microscope w^as employed upon tumours as a means of discovery, observers at first looked only to the elements which coarse microscopical examination could easily discover; and for a long while it was, and with some still is, the only question, what is the character of the component cells of the tumour ? As if in the study of buildings one considered only what sort of bricks or stones they are made of. True, this would serve to divide them into brick, stone, concrete, and mud buildings, and we must not despise such an advance, which is a real step forward, in comparison with entire ignorance of structural composition. But now we no longer confine attention to the component cells of tumours; rather in the study of them w^e have a main regard to the mode in which they are put together, and the degree and kind of organisation w'hich is undergone in the raising of them into often truly complex fabrics, such as we find many tumours to be when we properly comprehend their organization. It will naturally be asked, do the pathological tumours evidence any new plan of building, or are they always on the plan of some natural type; is there anything new in the nature, or, if I may so speak, in the conception of any pathological tumour ? The answer which has the greatest authority, that of the illustrious Virchow, on its