SYPHILIS, 88 distinction between syphilis and all other animal poisons. To what an extent this influence spreads is still a debateable question. According to some observers, instead of diminishing, the radius of its action appears to be yearly increasing. Probabilities That the child of a parent who has had syphilis may, not must, in- transm^ssioa. disease is generally acknowledged, and, when both parents ■ have been affected, the probabilities of its transmission are, doubtless, increased; but data are still wanting to determine under what circum- stances the offspring of such parent or parents is likely to be thus affected, or to be born healthy, and, whether maternal or paternal influence is the greater. There is, however, some reason to believe that when the mother is at fault the early conceptions are more likely to be blighted, and the later come to maturity; whilst when the father is at fault the first conceptions show few, if any, signs of the affection, the symptoms becoming more marked in each succeeding one, till at last the ovnm becomes blighted and the wife constitutionally affected. Daily experience proves, however, that a man who has had syphilis and lost all traces of it under treatment, who enjoys good health, and marries a healthy wife, may be blessed with healthy children, in whom no traces of syphilis can be found; and the same experience also indicates that like subjects, marrying in a less vigorous condition of health, or lapsing into it, may give rise to diseased offspring. The probabilities of the child being affected, as well as the degree of the affection, turn much upon the period of time which has elapsed between the disappearance ofl the constitutional symptoms in the parent and the date of marriage. Lancereaux’s A certain number of children, writes Lancereaux, succumb in their views. mother’s womb to syphilis, solely because they are already affected with the disease. At other times the children come into the world with lesions unmistakeably syphilitic; while in the great majority of cases the child who inherits syphilis has at first the appearance of health, and, some weeks after birth, presents signs which betray the evil trans- mitted to it from its parents, it being usually from the first to the third month of extra-uterine life that syphilis manifests itself in the new- born child. Cullerier, however, gives a year as the latest time for the disease to show itself. Symptoms of With respect to the symptoms of hereditary syphilis, it may be well hereditary syphilis. “ Snufdes.” Eruption. Condylomatn. mueuus mcuiumnc, ... ....—j.— —^ — at the anus, about the mouth or within it, around the nose, or other to assert at the beginning, that, with the exception ot the primary in- oculation, they are much the same as those of the acquired disease. Affections of the skin are found associated with those of the mucous membranes, bones, or viscera; and these manifest themselves in no definite order. At birth the child may be plump and fat, and for some days appear healthy in every respect. After the lapse of a few days some difficulty in breathing will probably appear, with symptoms of cold in the head, these so-called “snuffles” being always suspicious. At this time, if the skin be carefully examined, more particularly about the buttocks and feet, some eruption will be seen. This may be simply a stain- ing of the skin, or a more definite papular, vesicular, or pustular rash ; it may be associated with some affection of the internal skin or wiiv/y/xiici T^of m* pnnrlvlnmnt'.n slinwmo* f.lipmsftlvpa