392 AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. When iiupacteiL Fig. 113. metres, is the method which ought to he used above all others, which carries with it the least danger, and is by far the most successful. howl being held by the patient so that the rim is pressed against tli^ skin close under the lobule of the ear, the surgeon draws the auricle upwards and backwards so as to straighten the external meatus, and thel nozzle being passed slightly within the external opening and pressedl against the upper wall, a moderately forcible current is made to pass] along the upper wall, sweep across the membrana tympani,and by itj is directed outwards, in which latter course it meets with the] foreign body, and, carrying it with it, forces it along the loweH wall of the canal and out at the external opening. It may] be necessary to change the position of the patient’s head so as ten give the stream a different direction, according to the position of th^ foreign body in the canal, the endeavour being always to pass thej inward current beyond the body, which ought to be influenced only by] the outward rush. Should the body be impacted it may be necessary] to loosen it by the probe before you can remove it by the syringe, buy the first injections generally suffice to do this. This failing, which is] extremely rare, and the bod^ being soft, you may pass a hooy into it from the side and so exj tract it; or should it be tocH large for this you may, having fixed it with the hook so as t(J prevent it passing further in b^ your manipulations, pull pieces] out of it by means of smallj kneed forceps and so reduce its] bulk sufficiently to extract by] the hook. When the body is] hard and so formed that theJ current cannot have much in-1 fluence upon it, and a hold by] forceps or hook cannot be ob- tained, Lowen berg’s method oH bringing the point of a camel’s-'T hair pencil armed with joiners’J glue or other glutinous material! into contact with the body, allow- ing the viscous substance to harden and thus binding the pencil and! the foreign body together and so extracting them, is sometimes usefulj Many other instruments have been proposed to remove foreign bodies,] most of which are not worthy of a place in the surgeon’s armament tarium, but mention must be made of Wilde’s wire snare, which may! he found very useful and has the advantage of being very safe, amu Mr. Durham’s ear forceps, which allows of the passage of the instru-j ment through a narrow speculum—a very great desideratum. _ 1 It may happen that none of the above-mentioned means will enable^ you to extract the body, and yet the symptoms of pressure on the nervous structures—giddiness, confusion, delirium, &c.—are so urgent that removal is imperative. In such you may be compelled to place the patient under chloroform, enter the meatus by loosening the auricle from its superior attachments, or through the mastoid process, and so