DISEASES OP THE SCALP AND CRANIUM. 240 May simulate a cystic tumour. Natural cure. Treatment. Ostitis and periostitis. Symptoms. May terminate in suppuration and necrosis. Confined pus may cause oompression. Treatment of early symptoms. disappears, the brain matter fills the sac, and then the tumour becomes soft and doughy.” A hydrencephalocele “in shape is more or less pyriform, with a marked contraction at its attachment, and sometimes a long and narrow stem j in size it is apt to become much larger than an ence- phalocele. The integuments over it are thinner, fluctuation exists about the hernia, and large veins may be traced under the skin.” When these tumours are small and have a very minute communica- tion with the cranial contents, they have been and may be again mis- taken for some simple cyst or tumour. The surgeon should therefore always suspect that a cystic tumour, situated in the median line, over a fontanelle or suture and particularly when over the nose, may have some communication with the membranes, and he should consequently postpone all operative interference till the diagnosis is clear. As the bones ossify, the opening between the tumour and the cranial contents may close. The cyst, if small, may then be excised j if large it may be injected with iodine or Morton’s iodo-glycerine solution. The utmost caution, however, must be employed in the treatment of these cases, and where uncertainty exists as to their true nature or attachments, the prudent surgeon had better leave the case to nature than risk life by any hazardous enterprise. Ostitis and periostitis of the bones of the cranium are common affec- tions and may occur either as a consequence of a local injury, of syphilis, or of other causes. They are also often associated with brain complica- tions. Under the heading of traumatic encephalitis this subject was discussed, together with its treatment, and ostitis coming on from any cause other than injury presents very similar symptoms. I have seen in an infant periostitis the result of hereditary syphilis, and ostitis ending in necrosis. I have seen also half the frontal bone of a babe exfoliate after a punctured wound from a nail, without any brain sym- ptoms. In the adult the complications attending inflammation of the bones, syphilitic or otherwise, are very variable. The symptoms are generally local so long as the inflammation is confined to the periosteum covering in the bone, the chief being pain and tenderness, with local swelling; though when the infiammation has spread to the inner periosteum or dura mater, other symptoms appear; such as constant headache, and great irritability of brain; any worry or work increases pain, causes fever, restlessness, and want of sleep. As the disease progresses delirium, convulsions, paralysis, coma, and death, may be the result. The infiammation in the bone may go on to suppuration, or necrosis ; the dead bone may exfoliate in masses (Fig. 74) or in small portions. Should no external outlet for the pus exist, it will press inwards and aggravate the brain symptoms; and, if no external vent to the sup- puration be made, either by natural processes or by the surgeon, the retained pus within the skull may give rise to syraptoms of com- pression of the brain, when it is probable that the brain itself and its serous membrane are also involved, and the case becomes a most serious one. It is, consequently, a point of great importance for the surgeon to anticipate such a complication, and, if possible, to prevent it, and this leads me to speak of the treatment of the affection. When a patient has had a blow upon the head, or been the subject of syphilis, and as an after symptom a local swelling appears, or pain of a