542 DISEASES OF THE JAWS, ETC. Hydrops autri. Dentigerous cysts. Symptoms and progress. Cysts connected with undeveloped teeth. antrum may be bo insidious in its formation as to induce the surgeon to believe that a tumour exists. Liston gives an instance in his ‘ Practical Surgery’ of such an error, in which removal of the jaw was attempted. In all tumours of the upper jaw, the prohabUity of the presence of a large cyst should never be forgotten. Hydrops antri is now a well-recognised affection, and is characterised by a gradual, painless expansion of the bone, rarely producing other symptoms than those due,to mechanical pressure. It encroaches on the nose, and causes obstruction; on the orbit, and presses on the glohe; on the mouth, and produces bulging of the palate; and, on the cheek, so as to cause deformity; indeed, it is often because of this that the patient is induced to seek advice. When the expansion is great, the shell of bone may become so thin as to crackle like parchment under pressure. This sensation may be yielded by pressure upon its external or palatal sur- face. M. Giraldes, in 1853 (Montyon prize), was the first to describe these cysts with clearness, although Mr. W. Adams had previously recognised them. {Vide ‘ St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum Catalogue.’) The old surgeons looked upon this affection as the result of obstruction to the aperture between the nostril and antrum, the dilatation of the bone being due to retained mucus, but this is now known to be an error. All recent pathology tends to indicate, that it is a cystic disease of the mucous lining of the antrum, the affection showing itself as a single cyst, or, as a cystic degeneration of this tissue. Giraldes regards these cysts as dilatations of the glandular follicles of the mucous membrane. The fluid contents of these cysts are always viscid, occasionally clear, but mostly blood-stained, sometimes purulent, containing cholesterine, but never pure mucus. I have recently, however, had a case in a boy aet. 16, with Mr. E. Phillips, of Leinster Square, where the fluid was serous and blood-stained in a high degree. Dentigerous cysts are, clinically, closely allied to those just described; pathologically they may differ; but there can be no doubt that the cysts are connected with the teeth, which are in some cases fully developed, and in others imperfectly so. They are found in both upper and lower jaws. Heath, in his excellent ‘ Essay on the Jaws,’ 1868, informs us that cysts of small size, in connection with the fangs of permanent teeth, are frequently found on extracting the latter, but give rise to no symptoms demanding surgical interference. Occasionally growing to a large size they produce absorption of the containing alveolus, and give rise to a prominent swelling. The disease is generally slow in its progress, and tolerably painless; by its pressure the cyst may cause absorption of the bone with which it is in contact, and a deep excavation. Paget relates in his ‘ Surgical Pathology’ such a case as a cyst near the gums, and I have had under observation a woman who had a tumour in her left cheek for years, which when opened, discharged some watery fluid. She applied to me for a bony projection of the cheek, that was clearly the edge of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, the hone above having become absorbed by the pressure of the cyst, thus causing a cup-like depression. She had had all her teeth removed at different times by dentists, under the impression that the disease was due to them. The dentigerous cysts are found in both jaws, and are almost al- ways connected with the permanent teeth, rare cases being recorded in which the temporary were implicated. In this affection, the teeth