638 TAPPING THE ABDOMEN. Paracentesis of abdomen. Diagnosis previous to tapping. Ascites. Description of the operation of tapping. five places, and although much manipulation followed this practice, no extravasation occurred at the time or after, and a rapid recovery ensued without a drop of suppuration. The case occurred in the practice of Mr. Kelson Wright, of Kennington. These remarks are only to he read as suggestions, and more particularly as applied to large umbilical and scrotal hernite. Since the introduction of the pneu- matic aspirator by Dr. Dieulafoy this practice has received much encour- agement. For more detailed evidence on the subject of intestinal obstruction and its treatment, the following papers may be referred to: Brinton, ‘ Croonian Lectures,’ 1859.—Fagge, ‘Guy’s Reports,’ 1868.—Gay, ‘Trans. Lond. Med. Soc.,’ 1861-2.—Gorham, ‘Guy’s Reports,’ vol. iii, series 1.—Hinton, ‘ Asso- ciation Med. Journal,’ 1853.—Smith, ‘ American J ournal of Med. Science,’ 1862.—Bryant, ‘ Med. Times,’ 1872.—‘ A Treatise on the Pneumatic Aspiration of Morbid Fluids,’ by Dr. George Dieulafoy, 1873.—Trousseau’s ‘Clinical Medicine.’—Hutchinson, ‘Med. Chir. Trans.,’ vol. Ivii, 187'i.—Coupland and Morris, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 26, 1878. -Bryant, ‘ Lancet,’ May, 1878.—‘ Clinical Society,’ 1878. On Tapping the Abdomen. Whenever fiuid collects in the abdominal cavity so as to interfere with life’s functions, the operation of tapping may be called for. It may be for ascites, a collection of fluid in the peritoneal cavity; for ovarian dropsy, a collection of fluid in a single or in a polycystic tumour; or for hydatid, whether hepatic, pelvic, or peritoneal. . It may also be called for in renal or splenic cysts. It would be out of my province to enter minutely into the diagnosis of all these conditions, as the majority of such cases come under the care of the physician, the surgeon being called m simply to operate. Nevertheless, it may be as well to give some of the leading points of diagnosis, for I need scarcely say that the operating surgeon is not re- lieved of all responsibility of diagnosis by the fact that a medical mind has charge of the case. The operator, as such, assumes part, at least, of the responsibility of the case as well as of the operation. Diagnosis.—In a general way it may be asserted, therefore, that ascites is the result of a chronic action that has been going on for some time, arising from liver, peritoneal, heart, or ren.al disease, the abdominal dropsy being one of the results only. The history of the case consequently will be a great help in arriving at a con- clusion. The fluid, moreover, will be found to fill the abdominal cavity equally; fluctuation being perceptible across the abdomen, and from before backwards well into the loins, even when the abdomen is resonant. As a rule, the intestines will be found floating upwards, thus giving re- sonance on percussion, the position of the bowels being influenced by that of the patient. With the body horizontal, they will give resonance at the umbilicus; with the pelvis depressed, above this point; with the pelvis well raised, resonance may even be detected near the pubes. In almost all these cases the sound over the loins will be dull. On looking at the abdomen the surface will be smooth and the enlargement equal. The subject of diagnosis of ovarian and uterine disease will receive attention in Chapter XXVII. The operation. The instruments required for the operation are a moderate-sized trocar and canula; an india-rubber tube about six feet long adapted to a silver-tubular plug that fits the canula when the trocar is removed; a lancet or small scalpel; a pad of lint; and a roll of good strapping. Some surgeons prefer one of the modern instruments by which the