Hilton’s luetliod of opening abscess. Periostitis or ostitis. Symptoms. Termina- tions. Treatment. 378 AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT. formed as follows:—An incision having been made, either through the skin or conjunctiva, at that part where the eyeball appears most thrust away from the wall of the orbit, a grooved director should be thrust in (the surgeon bearing in mind the direction of the wall along which he is passing the instrument and the depth of the orbit). As soon as pus is seen escaping along the groove of the director a pair of small dressing forceps should be passed along it until their points are within the abscess ; the blades should then be separated slightly and drawn out whilst so separated; a ragged opening will thus be left, which is not likely to close too soon, and the danger of cutting important structures will be obviated. The greatest care must always betaken not to injure the eyeball. As the operation is very painful, an anaesthetic should be given. Immediately after the operation search should be made by means of a probe for diseased bone or foreign bodies; if a foreign body or loose sequestrum be detected it should be at once removed; dis- eased bone, if still firm, may be left to itself, and will either come away spontaneously or may require removal at a later period. If the opening appear inclined to close too soon it should be kept open by means of a piece of lint passed into it; only light water dressings need be applied. Periostitis or ostitis followed by caries and necrosis of the walls of the orbit. Symptoms.—The symptoms of periostitis or ostitis going on to carles or necrosis are similar to those above described, excepting, perhaps, that the pain is more severe and often aggravated at night. This form of inflammation should always be suspected in persons suffering from syphilis, and occasionally nodes may be met with at the margin of the orbit or on the forehead; their existence should always lead the surgeon to suspect that the inflammation within the orbit is periosteal. When the abscess has formed and burst, or has been opened, the seat of inflammation becomes evident from the character of the pus, which is of that peculiar unhealthy and bad-smelling variety met with in abscesses connected with diseased bone, as well as from the condition of the opening, which remains patent and is surrounded by large unhealthy granulations, and from the fact that the bare bone can be felt with a probe passed through the opening. Caries and necrosis usually end in recovery after a time, the dis- eased bone being throwm off and the sinus becoming closed. The disease generally attacks the margin of the orbit and often leaves cicatrices, which cause great disfigurement and deformity of the eyelid. Should caries or necrosis occur deeply in the orbit the results may be most serious, the optic nerve becoming affected and vision lost, or the disease may spread to the interior of the skull, set up meuiugitis, and cause death. Treatment.—In the earlier stages the treatment should be the same as that described under inflammation and abscess of the orbit, but when the abscess has burst, or been opened, its cavity should be syringed out daily with some mild disinfecting solution; care must be taken to prevent its too early closure, by means of a piece of lint pushed into the sinus; exuberant granulations should be kept down by the applica- tion of nitrate of silver, and distortion of the lids, if likely to occur.