261 CONGENITAL SACRAL TUMOURS. itself. I hiive had occasion to remove a large congenital sebaceous cyst placed between the anus and coccyx from a child set. 10; and from another child, a tumour containing foetal remains, situated between the sacrum and the bowel. I may further refer to a third interesting case of cystic tumour of the sacrum, possibly spina bifida, in which the cyst hurst, and complete recovery followed. The following are the brief notes of the two latter cases. Marie B—, set. seven weeks, was brought to me in 1868 with a Notes of congenital tumour the size of a large orange projecting from between cases the bowel and coccyx, and apparently passing up in front of the bone (Fig. 78). It had been growing rapidly since birth, and was pressing upon the bowel, though the child in all other respects was healthy. I ex- cised the growth, and found that microscopically it was made up of fat, fibro-cellular tissue, mucous membrane, cartilage, and bone elements. Eecovery ensued and the child has kept well. A male child, two days old, was brought to me on July 30th, 1868, with a large cystic tumour covering in the lower half of the sacrum and occupying the perinseum (Fig. 79). It was the size of a cocoa nut, and transparent as a spina bifida, yet in all other respects the child ji’as well formed. The next day it burst and many ounces of a blood-stained fluid escaped. The sac collapsed, but no evil result followed this bursting of the cyst. I watched the child for many months, and, on November 30th, 1871, the tumour had contracted up to an irregular indurated mass of integument. The child was very healthy. Treatment.—The only right treatment is the excision of the Treatment, growth, which should be the general practice unless symptoms exist Exeision. to contra-indicate any surgical interference, such as extensive or dan- gerous connections of the tumour. Care should always be taken to Fig. 79. Fig. 78. Congenital coceygeal tumours. ascertain that no communication exists between the tumour and the spinal canal.