7 INTEODUCXION. POINTS FOR ENaiTIRY IN SURGICAL CASES. Disease or Injury. Date when seen. Result. NAME, age, occupation, residence, general health, habits, and aspect. In some cases hereditary history. HISTORY OF PRESENT DISEASE OR INJURY.—Its assigned cause or method of production. ORDER OP SUCCESSION OF SYMPTOMS, with their former treatment, and date of any marked change in either symptoms or treatment. PRESENT CONDITION AND APPEARANCES; passing in review, and noting when irregular the condition of intellect, senses, and nervous system. Organs of respi- ration and eireulation. Pulse—frequeney, force, volume, compressibility, distinct- ness and rhythm. Temperature. Digestive Organs—tongue, appetite, bowels. Urino-genital Organs—urine, catamenia. Integuments—eruptions, moist or dry ;— above or below natural heat. Locomotive organs—bones, joints, and muscles, whether paralysed or in undue action. PREVIOUS DISEASES OR INJURIES, with their dates. Treatment. PROGRESS OF THE CASE.—Note carefully anv change in the old, or the appearance of new symptoms, with the date of change, and treatment, by medicine, diet, See., &c. Carefully dll in the result, and date of departure; if unfavorable, the condition on post-mortem e.vamination. Notb.—As the value of a Report depends upon its conciseness, togetlier with the accuracy and number of recorded observations, it is unnecessary to write one, unless an appreciable change in the symptoms exists. SPECIAL POINTS FOR OBSERVATION. HERNIA.—Variety and character—its position, period of existence, assigned cause, and form ; whether previously irreducible, and if a truss had been worn. When Strangulatkd, give the symptoms, and local, dating from the exact jieriod of strangulation, the first np])earance of sickness, character of vomit. Prbvio'js and Present Treatment.—If by taris, state whether forcible, and how long applied, with or without chloroform; when by operation, if sac was opened or not—if opened, why? its contents and their appearances. On reduction, note the time from the first symptoms of strangulation ; success, immediate and final. WOUNDS.—Variety, position, extent, and depth ; how, and with what produced; when on scalp, if exposing bone. Complications-heemorrhage, &c. Treatment and result —whether united by adhesion or granulation. TETANUS.—Idiopathic or Traumatic, partial or general; time of appearance after injury; position and condition of wound. Death—whether from spasm or exliaustiou. DISLOCATIONS.—Form and position ; simple or compound; how and when produced ; previous Treatment. Symptoms, general appearance and position of the limb; mobility, pain, amount of injury to soft parts. Treatment—time after injury; by manipulation or exten- sion; mode of application of extension; its direction, duration, and additional means, under chloroform. Result, immediate and final. FRACTURES.—Simple or compound; how and when produced; position and direction of the lire of fracture; its tendency; amount of injury to vessels and soft parts; in Compouni, note position, and extent of wound; if produced by the primary force or broken bone, what vessels, nerves, or joints are involved. Coukitutional symptoms. Treatment.—Sandbags, starch bandage, splints , form of splint applied; date of applicition. Note the date of any change of local or general Treatment. IRACTURED SKULL.—Position ; kind of injury and direction of the force; if attended by hmmorrhage, its amount, and whether from nose, mouth, ear, or external wound. Give evidence, if any, of brain mischief. IN SUSPECTED FRACTURED BASE.—Paralysis of facial nerve; flow of blood or serum frDnt ear, with the time of its first appearance after the injury and its dura- tion ; conditionof hearing; state of vision, and of pupils; presence of s'ubconjunctivM hicmorrhage. If complicated with internal injury, as concussion, compression, d-c.; carefully report symptoms in their order of succession, and whether immediately tollowing the injury or not; the duration, and amount of unconsciousness, insensibility; paralysis, its position, motion, sensation, or both; condition of sphincters; character and number of pulse, respiration; condition of skin Treat-