STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. Statistics. Curling’s statistics. Symptoms of stricirue. Constipation. Local examination. 722 extending 'beyond two or three inches in length. The bowel above the stricture will always be dilated, at times even to rupturing, ulceration of the colon being a very common consequence of the dilatation. Below the stricture there will often he found pedun- culated, fleshy, or cancerous growths. These points are well seen in Fig. 297. It has been already pointed out that fistula, ischio-rectal, vesical, or vaginal, abscesses and hemorrhoids, are common accompaniments of stricture. The disease, taken as a whole, is twice as common in women as in men, and I found from my own notes that thirty- two out of forty-eight consecutive cases were of the former sex. But syphilitic stricture is more common in the female, and cancerous in the male. Curling, in quoting 67 cases of cancer, gives 44 in males; and in my 48 cases 20 were found in subjects under thirty, 15 of these being women, and mostly, if not all, syphilitic ; 22 were in subjects over forty, half being men, the majority of these being probably cancerous. The approach of the disease is very iusidious, whatever may be its origin or nature, and the symptoms are generally such as have been given under the heading of cancerous ulceration of the bowel. Constipation is the one early symptom, and it is not till some ulceration has com- menced either at the stricture or above it, that others appear. Of these the most common are diarrhoea, with lumpy stools, containing blood, pus, or mucus: straining at stool, and a sensation of lurning in the part afterwards; at last a complete stoppage, abdomind distension and dyspeptic symptoms. An examination with the finger carefully introduced into the rectum will, as a rule, at once reveal the true nature of the case, for about two inches up the bowel the narrowing will usually be felt with or without ulceration or the infiltration of the part with new tissue, sometimes the stricture is beyond the reach of the finger, and then probably by pressure upon the abdomen above the pelvis with the free hand, or, by the introduction of the hand into the rectum the disease may be felt. ■When the stricture is annular it is probably cicatricial or fibrous, possibly cancerous. When epithelial or positively cancerous, it will be infiltrated with a nodular, irregular mass of new tissue which may be breaking down and ulcerating, and occasionally the mass can be felt externally at the brim of the pelvis over the left iliac fossa. When syphilitic, the ulceration will probably extend upwards from the anus, and such anal integumental outgrowths as have been already mentioned will exist. In ordinary cases of cancerous stricture there is an inch of healthy Fig. 297. gislepded ^Inai Ory^ire Stricture of rectum. 326^0, Guy’s Hosp. Mus.