OPERATIONS ON EYEBALL, ETC. 339 to have slowly progressed without inflammatory change, “simple atrophy.” With the ophthalmoscope the optic disc will be seen to he white or Atrophic bluish white in colour, frequently its margin appears irregular, and it cup. may be cupped. The atrophic cup varies from the glaucomatous in not having steep sides, so that the vessels do not appear broken in their course as in the latter aifection; it does not take in the whole nerve, but only its central part, which slopes gradually backwards; the vessels appear curved on the surface of the disc, but are not altered in calibre as in glaucoma. Atrophy of the retina frequently goes along with atrophy of the optic disc. In cases of atrophy of the optic nerves vision is always much im- .state ef paired; some patients with extremely white discs can count fingers or vision, even distinguish large letters, but in the majority of cases vision is reduced to bare perception of light. . ' Treatment.—The treatment of atrophy of the optic nerves, espe- Treatment, cially if associated with a similar condition of the retina, is most unsa- tisfactory, and, indeed, almost hopeless. Should a certain amount of vision still remain, and no change have taken place for many months, we may safely assure our patient that he will retain what sight he has. The drugs which have been principally used are iron, either alone or in combination with nux vomica, strychnia taken by the mouth or injected hypodermically, phosphorus, quinine, or other tonics, and opium in gradually increasing doses. Galvanism has also been employed. OPEEATIONS ON THE EYEBALL AND ITS APPENDAGES. POSITION OF THE PATIENT AND OPERATOK, &c. All the minor operations, such as slitting the canaliculi, passing Operations, probes down the nasal duct, opening tarsal cysts, &c., can best be per- formed when the patient is seated in a chair, and the operator stands behind him; the patient’s head, over which a towel has first been thrown, resting against the operator’s chest. (See Fig. 93.) The more important operations, as extraction of cataract, iridectomy, squint, &c., should be performed whilst the patient is lying on a hard couch, his head resting on a bolster covered by a towel, which should be thrown forward over the forehead; the operator should sit or stand behind (see Fig. 94). In whichever position an operation is to be per- formed, the chair or table should be placed in front of a large window so as to insure a good light, and care be taken to prevent assistants and others from interposing their heads or bodies between the patient’s face and the source of light. It wdll be found wdiilst operating that, with the exception of occasional pronation and supination, there is little occasion to use the arms, which should be kept with the elbows near