3 INTRODUCTION. exact seat of the affection. Is it confined to the soft parts covering the Example, hone, or are the contents of the skull in any way involved ? because, injury, ill the former, the afEection is comparatively of small importance; while in the latter, its gravity cannot be too highly estimated. Scalp wounds, however severe, have as a rule a successful ending; whilst brain injuries, however trivial, should always be regarded with appre- hension, for they may lead to the most serious complications. When no signs of brain disturbance after an injury have been observed the diagnosis is not difiBcult, for without symptoms, local or general, a surgeon may he excused from entertaining the idea of brain complication; although he should know that fatal cases of fractured base have taken place without any symptoms to suggest the presence of such an injury. When indications of brain disturbance exist, the difficulty arises, for it cannot be too firmly impressed on the student’s mind that the same symptoms may he produced by concussion as by compression of the brain; and that hone pressing on the brain, and blood effused upon its surface, or within its structure, give rise to precisely the same phenomena; he should know that the symptoms produced by apoplexy the result of a ruptured vessel, and by haemor- rhage into the brain from an injury, are almost identical, and that those produced by what is called functional disturhanceof the brain closely resemble those caused by organic mischief. Whilst, therefore, it is im- perative on the student of surgery to remember, that a variety of dif- ferent conditions may give rise to apparently identical clinical symptoms; Value of he must know that the clinical history of each of these cases will, on clinical liis- iuquiry, be found to differ widely, and that it is to the collateral evidence of the case he must look, to find the right clue to a successful diagnosis. Where no clinical history can be obtained, the diffieulties of diagnosis are indeed great; thus, when a surgeon is called to see a man who has been found in the street, insensible; who is in fact in an apoplectic condition, and has, at the same time, some external evidence of injm-y to his skull; and may pei’haps also smell of spirits. The questions that arise in the surgeon’s mind under these circumstances are very conflict- ing. Did this man have a fit and then fall ? or, are the symptoms due to a hraiu injury, the result of an accident ? Was he knocked down and injured, or, was the injury the consequence of a fall ? Are the symptoms caused by drunkenness, or how far are they complicated with it ? Are they the result of blood-poisoning from kidney disease, or, poisoning by opium ? To unravel all these points great care and discrimination are required. Too much, indeed cannot be bestowed upon the task, because to treat an apoplectic seizure, or a case of severe brain injury from external vio- lence, for di-unkenness, is a grave error; but, unfortunately, it is one which is^ not uncommon. To mistake drunkenness for apoplexy or severe head injury, is, perhaps, a less grave, although it is, without doubt, a serious fault. As a matter of practice,*however, it is generally a Rule to wise rule to regard all these suspicious cases from the more serious adopt, point of view, and to watch and W'ait for symptoms to indicate the practice that should he pursued. What I wish therefore to impress upon the student is the necessity of bearing in mind that all these different conditions alluded to pre- sent to the surgeon many features in common, and that a correct diagnosis can only he arrived at by a process of exclusion. The