374 EXTIRPATION OP THE ETEBALL. This is the usual course of cases of extraction of cataract; all do not, however, go on so favorably. A day or two days after the operation the patient may complain of severe pain in the eyeball, temple, and brow, and on removing the bandage the lids may he found puffy and red, or perhaps much swollen, m^ammatlon symptoms always indicate inflammatory changes in some of a ma ion. ocular structures j the inflammation may he simply an attack of iritis, which will probably proceed to a favorable termination; but may subsequently affect the choroid, a chronic form of choroido-iritis being set up, which leads to softening, and eventually to shrinking of the globe; the cornea may he inflamed or suppurating, or inflam- mation and suppuration of all the ocular structures (panophthalmitis) may have set in. For the treatment of these cases see Iritis, Corneitis, j &c. j Occurrence A not uncommon cause of pain and irritation is the occurrence of o entropion, entropion of the lower lids; this must be remedied by operation (see Operations on the Eyelids). Closure of pupil. Capsular obstruction. Opacity of vitreous. Extirpation of eyeball. Cases in whieb the operation is called for. Operation of extirpation. Division of the conjunc- tiva. Causes of Unsatisfactory Eesults of Cataract Extraction. The result of an operation for extraction of cataract may be marred by closure of the pupil consequent on iritis, by obstruction of its area with opaque lens capsule, or by opacity of the vitreous humour. j Occlusion of the pupil should be remedied by making an artificial ■ one («ee Artificial Pupil) ; capsular obstructions should he torn through with cataract needles, cut across with scissors, or removed bodily with forceps. The greatest caution must always he exercised in meddling with . opaque cajisule as an operation upon it, especially an attempt to tear it forcibly away, is very likely to be followed by increase of tension, inflammation, or even suppuration of the eyeball. For opacity of the vitreous humour nothing can be done. EXTIEPATION OF THE EYEBALL. Removal of the eyeball is called for under the folloudng conditions : (1) In all cases of injury causing complete disorganisation, with collapse of the globe and escape of its contents. (2) In cases where one eye, having been damaged by injury or disease . to such an extent as to render it practically useless, becomes irritable or painful, and the sound eye appears threatened by sympathetic-1 ophthalmia. | (3) In cases where an eye lost from injury or disease, and qttite I hlind, is a source of annoyance, even though the other eye be not j threatened. [ (4) In cases where the globe has become the seat of malignant j disease. . . ' Extirpation of the eyeball should be thus performed (for position or ) patient and operator see Fig. 94, p. 340) The instruments required are a wire speculum, toothed forceps, a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, curved on the flat (Fig. 106) and a strabismus hook. The patient being thoroughly under the influence of an anesthetic, the operator should place the wire speculum between the lids, then by the aid of the for- ceps and scissors cut through the conjunctiva all round the cornea as close to its margin as possible; he should then, with the stra-