AFFECTIONS OP THE ORBIT. 377 Treatment.—In all cases where the eyeball is healthy care should he taken to protect the cornea from injurious exposure by drawing the Closure of lids over it and keeping them fixed by a compress and bandage, hut in extreme cases the edges of the lids must be pared, united by sutures, and allowed to heal firmly together. Inflammation within the orbit. Inflammation Inflammation may affect the soft tissues within the orbit, the peri- within the osteum, or the bone itself; it may end in resolution, the parts return- **'• iug to their natural condition ; chronic thickening may result, causing more or less permanent protrusion and impairment of the movements of the eyeball j or abscess may form, and in the case of periostitis or ostitis caries and necrosis of the bony walls may supervene. Symptoms.—Inflammation within the orbit is accompanied by more Symptoms, or less febrile disturbance, pain of a throbbing character much in- creased by pressure, swelling of the conjunctiva and lids, more or less prominence and impaired movement of the eyeball, intolerance of light, and watering of the eye; it may be the result of cold, injuries, or Causes, general diseases, as erysipelas, and (in the case of periostitis) of syphilis, or may come on in debilitated states of the system, during recovery from acute diseases (scarlet fever, measles, &c.), or from over-lactation. It is not easy to distinguish inflammation affecting the soft parts only from inflammation of the periosteum or bone. Treatment should consist in allaying pain and inflammation by Treatment, means of opium internally, fomentations of poppy-heads to the affected part, leeches to the corresponding temple (two to six in i number), and rest in bed in a darkened room ; any general medi- cal treatment which may appear most applicable should also he d. employed. J For instance, if the patient be strong and healthy, low' diet, purga- •j tives, &c, should he had recourse toj if weakly, as during recovery d from some acute disease, tonics and good diet should he prescribed. 0) Should the patient be the subject of syphilis this should he treated. i8 Should the inflammation go on to the formation of abscess, the Abscess. symptoms are aggravated, the conjunctiva becomes more swollen, and >S in some cases almost covers the cornea, the lids are greatly swollen and J red, the prominence and impairment of movement of the eyeball in- * crease, and rigors may occur. Vision becomes misty, and in some cases j all perception of light is entirely lost. After a time fluctuation may b he detected; if left to itself, the abscess will burst, the pus being dis- 1 charged either through the skin or conjunctiva. The abscess having it been emptied, in favorable cases the sw'elling will disappear, the d eyeball resume its natural position, and the opening heal. But in tj some cases,^ especially if the suppuration be associated w'ith caries and necrosis of the hone, the abscess w'ill remain open, or the orifice 'I alone heal, the sac again becoming filled with pus. Treatment.-—As soon as the surgeon feels satisfied of the existence Treatment, of pus in the orbit it should be evacuated; if fluctuation can be detected the diagnosis is easy enough, hut even if this cannot be done, and [ suppuration is suspected, an exploratory puncture should be made, ‘ w'hen the escape of pus will clear up any doubt. The best method of opening an abscess in the orbit is that recom- [ mended by Mr. Hilton for evacuating pus situated at a depth from ^ the surface amongst important structures. The operation should be per- i