ir fi »( to a -f !J i3 II '/ V 0 i; i ) > I DENTAL SURGERY. 567 while the replacement of the tempoi’ary molars by bicuspids increases the space for the front teeth. A very common form of irregularity results in otherwise well-deve- loped jaws from the permanent upper iucisors being erupted to the rear of their unshed predecessors. In such a case the prompt removal of the temporary tooth is demanded, for if, on the further elongation of the upper permanent incisor, its edge once passes behind the incisor of the Upper front lower jaw, at each closure of the mouth the evil is increased, and can should then only be corrected by the use of a regulating plate. On the same u'nders. score, lower incisors may sometimes be kept in the rear of the tempo- rary teeth in order that they may be ready to wedge forward the upper incisors, and thus secure the overlapping of the upper front teeth which allows of their true incisive action while it spares them undue wearing away. In spite of the above precautionary measures at the time of the second dentition, cases of irregularity will occur from malformation and insufficient development of the jaws. Some of the slighter of these irregularities are amenable to surgical treatment—that is, a timely extraction will allow nature to set all straight—but if a tooth is taken out on one side of the mouth to relieve overcrowding, the jireservation of symmetry will often demand the extraction of another on the oppo- site side. The patient’s profile and the relative prominence of the Facts to be upper and lower dental arches have to be considered in deciding considered in whether permanent teeth should be extracted for regulating purposes, ir’^re^gubmiy"'^ while the soundness of teeth, the direction taken by their roots, the firmness of their implantation, and their comparative durability, are all points to be considered in deciding which tooth should be sacrificed for the benefit of the remainder. Sometimes the first permanent molar may with advantage be taken On the out when the tendency to overcrowding is decided. If this tooth, W'hich is particularly liable to decay, is past hope of permanent pre- yenr-ol'd serration by stopping, its extraction in time allows the second molar inolar. to come forward and partly occupy its site, and the wi.sdom tooth to come well into place, w'hile it also enables the front teeth to spread, and thus escape undue lateral pressure and consequent decay. The one valid objection to the extraction of the first permanent molar, under the above circumstances, occurs when the withdrawal of the prop which this tooth affords at the back of the mouth would cause the low'er incisors to bite up unduly on to the necks of the uppers and drive them forward. Here it may be remarked that in all attempts to improve the regu- The "bite” larity of the teeth the relative positions of the antagonist teeth in the he other jaw must be taken into account. considered. So far only those cases have been considered that are capable of being benefited by timely extraction, but many cases require for their treat- ment the use of mechanical appliances. Among these appliances a Regulating lever for expanding the arch of the upper teeth (while it presses back “Pph'inces. the lower) and elastic bands are of great use; while in more advanced cases a regulating plate must be worn, the principle of its action being that it affords a fixed point from which continuous pressure or traction is kept up on the teeth to be moved. The movement of teeth by mechanical means should be gradual, or absorption of bone will result without a compensatory development.