I F 530 OPERATIONS ON THE PALATE. New methods Lately, however, I have much simplified the operation, merely of proceeding, hy altering its steps; that is to say, I have first introduced sutures through the soft palate, taking care to do so a quarter of an inch from the free border of the fissure, and secondly pared the edges, employing for this purpose a pair of scissors with short blades placed at right I angles to their shanks or a knife. By this practice, the introduction of I the sutures is an easy proceeding, and, consequently, very rapidly I effected, and the bringing together of the pared edges can be readily I accomplished. ! To relieve tension of the parts I now divide the soft palate laterally, : as shown in Fig. 201, a, the side cuts subsequently gaping, B, so as ] to appear as arches; so that in this way the muscles of the palate are i completely paralysed and the soft palate itself appears as one large uvula. ; 1 have performed the operation already described on many occa- j sions, and with success. In none was there even a pin-hole left. Its ; simplicity is vei’y striking. It cannot, however, be applied in all cases, yvqjgjj The stitches may he left in for five, ten, or even fourteen days, stitches to be the amount of irritation being the guide to their removal. When removed. union has taken place, the sutures only act as irritants, and in this as in all plastic operations, they should be removed as early, as possible with safety. During the process of repair the patient may freely take soft food, swallowing hy no means tending to separate, but, on the contrary, to close the wound. Stimulants may be given when Patient to be desirable. The operation, however, should only be undertaken in in good healthy patients, whereas in the feeble it is almost sure to fail. After '■ the operation the patient’s friends should not he led to expect that an immediate change for the better will he traced in the voice, as such is never the case, indeed a long interval of time as well as a process of education is necessary to acquire this result, although in many in- stances, the improvement is very great. How far an operation in I infancy tends in this direction has not yet been proved, sufficient II e.xperience in these early operations, as yet, not having been acquired. ! Wliere a If a small orifice near the hard palate be left after the operation, no small opening necessity exists to interfere again, because it is a clinical fact that they ! have a strong tendency to contract, and, the younger the patient, the ! greater the probability of complete closure. j Tail’s Mr. Tait believes, and I think rightly, that if the muco-periosteum I modification, hard palate be elevated with a raspatory from the semilune of the palate bone, the tendinous attachment of the tensor palati will i be raised with it, and thus paralysed, thereby doing away with the j necessity of any such division of muscles as practised by Pollock or r Fergusson, and diminishing the risk of the pin-hole orifice at the ; junction of the hard and soft palates. He advocates, moreover, two or more operations, viz. the hard palate to be first closed and the 1 soft after some months’ interval. I Fissures of the hard palate. 1 rusurcB of These are to be treated on similar principles to those of the soft, the ^ bard palate, great point of difference consisting in the separation of the soft parts I with the periosteum from the bone. For this purpose, Langenbeck’s j Operation. instrument is the best—a kind of small hoe; with this, after making j an incision down to the bone along the edge of the gum, he scrapes I all the soft parts from the bone down to the free border of the fissure, j the covering of the palate then hanging as a free curtain. Care is ] i