BURNS AND SCALDS. 152 Varied effects of heat on body. First degree. Second degree. Third degree. Fourth degree. Fifth degree. Si.xth degree. Prognoiis. On extent of surface involved. black-smith can manipulate pieces of hot iron that would “burn” ordinary people. Thus, some skins or parts of the body are more sensi- tive than others, and, under the same influence, may be differently affected. The effect of heat when applied to the body, varies according to its intensity and the duration of its application; it may cause a simple redness of the surface or the death of the part. Thus, its first morbid effect is mere redness and tenderness of the surface, and after a few hours, these symptoms may subside, the cuticle possibly desqua- mating. In the second degree of heat inflammation is the result, this action manifesting its presence by the formation of a blister, from the effusion of serum beneath the cuticle. In the third degree the superficial layer of the true skin is de- stroyed, the surface appearing of a grey-yelloioish or brown colour, not painful unless roughly handled. The vesicles that exist contain a blood-stained or brown fluid. The papillse of the skin, with its nerves, are first destroyed; but, when in the course of a day or so, the dead surface has been “ shed” and the nerves exposed, the pain is very severe, and the exposed surface has a reticulated surface. lu fourth degree, the whole thickness of skin is destroyed, with more or less of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the parts being con- verted into a hard, tough, dry, and insensible eschar, mottled with blood; vesication does not exist in this degree, all the superficial tis- sues having been destroyed. The skin surrounding the eschar may be blistered, but where it comes in contact with the injured part, it will be drawn into folds from the contraction, owing to the drying of the burnt integument; this puckering fairly indicates the important fact that the whole skin has been destroyed. The eschar does not begin to separate for four or five days, an inflammatory zone of redness with pain of some severity indicating the commencement of a process that will not be completed for two or three weeks. When the slough has come away, a long and tedious process of suppuration and granulation must be gone through prior to the repair of the exposed parts. In the fifth degree, the skin with the deeper parts are involved—a black, brittle, charred mass taking the place of healthy tissues. In the sixth degree, the whole thickness of a limb is carbonized. These divisions originally made by the great French surgeon Dupuytren so well accord with all observation, that they have been invariably adopted by modern surgeons; and although, in burns and scalds, one degree passes imperceptibly into another, and in bad cases coexist, in the main, they can be made out. Next to the intensity of the heat and duration of its application, the extent of surface involved is the most important point; indeed, as regards life, it is of far greater importance than the other two; because a superficial burn spread over a large surface—although not locally so injurious as a more severe one—is more fatal. In the majority of cases of death from burns and scalds, more particularly in children, the risk to life is fairly to be measured by the extent of surface involved; when more than half the body is injured, a fatal result generally ensues. A severe burn of a limited character may be, however, only a local aftectiou. i