LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 470 After- treatment. Chloroform to be given. Veins may wounded. On ligature of the abdominal aorta. Cure of abdominal aneurism by pressure. down to the vessel {vide Fig. 146, o). He should also satisfy himself when the vessel is on the needle that pulsation exists, and that pressure arrests pulsation in the aneurism. When the ligature has been applied, the displaced parts must be readjusted, the wound cleansed, its edges brought together, and some light application employed, such as dry lint or water dressing. Where the artery of an extremity has been tied the limb should be raised to facilitate the venous circulation, and | cotton wool wrapped round the part to maintain its heat, but, beyond this, no local treatment is required. It need hardly be stated that chloroform should invariably be given in these operations, and that the subsequent treatment of the case should be based on general principles. ! When veins bleed or large venous trunks require to be divided, they may be tied or twisted, though gentle pressure often arrests bleeding from small vessels. The wound should be carefully cleaned during the operation by the firm pressure of a well-squeezed sponge, the edges i should be held apart after the sheath has been exposed by hooked directors, but the surgeon on no account should allow his assistants to draw the parts so far asunder as to make them lose their relative posi- tions. With these general remarks, the application of a ligature to special arteries will now claim attention. Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta. In 1817, Sir A. Cooper tied the abdominal aorta, having failed to find the communication between the common iliac artery and an aneu- rismal tumour, after the introduction of his finger through a small opening in the ruptured sac. He made his incision through the linea alba to the left of the umbilicus, directly over the aorta. The patient lived forty hours. James, of Exeter (1829), and Murray, of the Cape of Good Hope, followed his example with no better success, the patients surviving three and a half, and, twenty-three hours respectively. In 1842 (‘Lancet,’ p. 334) Dr. C. B. Monteiro, of Eio Janeiro, recorded a case, in which the patient died from hsemorrhage on the tenth day. In 1856 Mr. South (‘ Lancet,’ vol. ii) operated on a patient who lived forty-three hours. In 1868 (‘American Journal of Medical Science’) Dr. McGuire, of Richmond, Virginia, recorded a sixth case, in which the patient lived twelve hours. In 1869 Dr. P. H. Watson, of Edin- burgh (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869) is said to have performed the ,i operation on a man who survived it sixty-five hours j and in the V ‘ Dublin Quart.’ for 1869 Mr. Stoke.s, junior, has recorded an eighth i' case in which a temporary ligature was applied, but without V success. In all these, the operation was performed for aneurism of the ^ common iliac artery, but the results up to the present offer little i encouragement for its repetition, more particularly when we have I other means at our command holding out a better promise of success, | such as pressure by the abdominal tourniquet, while the patient is . under the influence of chloroform. Cures of abdominal aneurism by this means have been recorded by Dr. Murray, of Newcastle-on- Tyne (‘ Rapid Cure of Aneurism by Pressure,’ 1871), Dr. Heath, of Sunderland (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1867, p. 287), Mr. Holden (‘ St. Bar- thol. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1866), Dr. Moxou and Mr. Durham (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1872), and Dr. Greenhow, ibid., 1873.