63 ON SEPTICEMIA, others. Care must be taken that no poison from a drain or closet Disinfec- reaches the room; and that all excretions are disinfected at once, indeed, passed directly into vessels containing disinfecting fluid, such as Condy’s, carbolic acid, chloride of lime, or chloralum. The wound should be kept clean, and care should be taken that all discharges are allowed a free escape. Dressings, when employed to a suppurating or sloughing wound, should he saturated with disinfecting lotions, and changed every three or four hours. When possible, foul wounds should be irrigated, a stream of warm water containing a disinfectant being allowed to run over the surface, I know of no means so valuable for keeping a wound clean as this. When sloughing of the part is present, charcoal poultices are at times beneficial. Sponges should never be employed where pus exists, but tow or cotton-wool, more particularly the absorbing cotton-wool known as Brun’s; or camel’s hair pencils kept in a lotion of carbolic acid, as suggested by Cal- lender, Poultices, when employed, may be put on tow or oakum, both of which materials, through the tar they contain, being dis- infectants. In simple, uncomplicated traumatic fever, when it stops within the a. In simple ordinary bounds, and neither runs on nor returns in its severity, no cases, special treatment is called for. Should restlessness or much pain exist, a sedative dose of chloral, opium or morphia, may be given, either by the mouth, rectum, or skin, and beyond this nothing is needed. In more confirmed cases of suppurative fever, when systemic b. In svstemic infection is declared, the vital energies of the patient must be main- infection, tained or stimulated, and everything that tends to lower must be warded off; thus the administration of tonic medicine becomes a neces- sity, the preparations of iron being the best, but strychnine and quinine are likewise of great use. Some surgeons employ very large doses of qiiinine, and speak highly of it,—from ten to twenty grains being ■ given at the first onset of pj'semia, and repeated every three or four hours,—and Dr. Goodhart’s investigations (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870) seem to show that quinine in full doses helps defervescence. Stimu- lants must be administered with caution, and their amount regulated by tlie wants of the individual case. When the patient’s habits have been free, alcohol in some of its forms will be required, even in large quan- tities; whereas to an abstemious person a very moderate dose will be sufficient, a large one doing harm ; and that form of stimulant is appa- rently the best to which the patient has been accustomed. The diet should be as nutritious as possible, but its nature must r,- * depend upon the assimilative powers of the stomach. Where milk ** * agrees, no better drink can be given, either alone or mixed with eggs or some spirit; cream may be added at times, or the concentrated Swiss milk; animal broths may likewise be freely used. When meat can be digested it may be given, although sparingly. When a patient refuses rood, Liebig s extract of meat, or Darby’s fluid meat, may be mixed with the beer or wine without his knowledge. When the stomach rejects nourishment it must be given by the rectum, an enema of beef tea and egg being administered every four or six hours. Ice may always be allowed in small quantities, as it gives comfort. When the nervous system is disturbed from want of sleep or otherwise, opium Opiates, may be given, small doses frequently repeated being better than large, here enemata are used, laudauum may be mixed with them.