DISEASES OP THE ARTERIES, 434 Treatment. Wlien gangrene resulted. would be granted by either, viz., that embolism leads sooner or later to a local inflammation of the arterial walls. But if arteritis is thus produced by a simple and healthy clot, the intensity of the local disease will vary as the plug is healthy or septic, and, it is surely not too much to suppose, that some plugs will so excite the component elements of the surrounding arterial coat that its tissues will become disorganized, its cellular elements multiply rapidly, and the coats as a consequence give way. Indeed, we know that these changes do actually occur in , small vessels, and abscesses follow ; so without doubt, also, though the . fact is less generally recognised, the same changes occur in the larger i arteries and lead occasionally to aneurism. I shall revert to this ( subject in the chapter on aneurism, and will add no more here, since what has been already said, together with the subjoined wood- cut of the state of the arterial coats after embolism, may sufiSciently explain the morbid processes set up in the larger vessels. Ti-ansverse section of tlie upper part of the radial artery plugged by an embolus of I septic origin some days before death. Prom a case of ulcerative endocarditis (boy, , ret. 19). Drawn by Dr. J. F. Goodhart, to show the condition of the adventitia. Q Clot. Outer elastic membrane. b . Internal coat. /. Adventitia crowded with abnormal no- - c. Internal elastic or fenestrated mem- clei, and proportionately thickened. brane. ’• Region of vasa vasorum. I d. Middle muscular coat. g. Fat. | Treatment.—The objects which surgeons should have in view in tlie t treatment of a vessel occluded by an embolus are, to favour the venous » circulation throngb the limb by its elevation, and to establish the i arterial collateral circulation by maintaining the warmth of the limb t by means of cotton wool carefully wrapped round it oyer oiled lint. . Pain can be relieved by sedatives, such as chloral or opium I*-'' ' the mouth, or morphia injected subcutaneously, while the powers of the . patient are to be maintained by nutritious diet, by stimulants carefully,y administered, and by tonics. When gangrene has taken place, the parts may be covered with some antiseptic material, as carbolic acid in a watery or oily solution, one ■■ part to thirty; or with powdered charcoal, chloralum, terebene or » I e t n » la lik 3| ig »l I® »l) ig h ‘I- «i