227 ENCEPHALITIS. When the symptoms are the result of acute encephalitis, and, con- sequently, of a general injury or shaking of the brain, there is little doubt that its compression is due to the effusion of inflammatory fluid into, upon or beneath the brain, and under such circumstances the question of surgical interference should not be entertained. It is to be thought of only in cases of local chronic suppuration, when as has been already shown, the symptoms are the result of a local contusion of the bone, of injury, or disease, and the seat of suppuration is usually between the bone and the dura mater. At times, however, a local abscess is formed in the cavity of the arachnoid; and under the circumstances when strong evidence of this condition exists, the parietal layer may be punctured, good results having followed this practice. In more advanced cases, suppuration may even involve the brain Puneturing itself; and it is a serious question whether a surgeon is ever justified thebraiu for in puncturing this organ with a view of laying open the suppurating sappnratioii. cavity. Should, however, good evidence exist of suppuration in the cerebral hemisphere beneath the seat of injury, I have no doubt as to the surgeon being justified in making an exploratory puncture, for Mr. Holden has recorded in ‘St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Rep.’ for 1873, a case in which success followed this practice, and in the ‘ American Journ. of Med. Science’ for July, 1873, five other successful in- stances may be referred to, but the evidence must indeed be strong to justify such a measure. Dupuytren had a successful case of the kind, and pathological anatomy furuishes examples in which such a practice might have been of use. On the other hand, many bold attempts are on record in which surgeons have punctured the brain to relieve symptoms of suspected suppuration in its substance. Weeds’s case is without doubt the best, as it was successful (‘Nashville Journ. Med.,’ April, 1872), but Detmold’s and Maisonneuve’s are encouraging. Still, in such cases much may be done—more, indeed, than is usually attempted—for the relief of symptoms, and I am disposed to think, that surgeons are too apt to leave these cases alone too long, and allow them to get beyond relief. A man receives a blow upon the head, followed by passing symptoms Symptoms of of so-called concussion; he has a slow convalescence, attended, and local ostitis perhaps followed, by headache. He may display some irritability of coutusion of brain, inability to do much work, or to undergo any physical fatigue; cranium. ° some febrile disturbance may perhaps manifest itself, but as often as I not none appear. The pulse probably will be feeble and irritable, at I other times slow and labouring. On examining the seat of injury, tenderness on pressure may be experienced, and occasionally increase t of heat will be felt. Pressure upon the injured part may even excite a convulsion where such had previously occurred. Under these circumstances, which are fairly indicative of local inflam- ) mation of the bone, spreading inwards—though how far is uncertain— a free incision to the bone is of great value. I have known this operation Treatment I ' relieve immediately all the symptoms, general and local, and have free incision.^ never known it followed by harm. It should always be performed I when evidence of local inflammation exists, with undefined and persis- 1 tent brain symptoms. > When, however, evidence exists that the inflammation has spread Symptoms of from the bone to the parts beneath, as indicated by marked symptoms “bscess j of feverishness, severe headache, and probably rigors; with sleeplessness, •