ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Ou hernia. Situation. Class Of society. Hereditary tendency. Proportion to its seat. Hernia in leiuales. Hernia in males. 6W. ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Abdominal hernia or rupture signifies the protrusion of any viscus through an opening in the parietes of the abdominal cavity. This protrusion for the most part occui’s at the inguinal AnA femoral canals or umbilicus, though, occasionally, at other parts when the abdominal walls have been weakened by some infiammatory lesion, rupture, or division of muscle from injury or operation, and more rarely at such weak points of the abdominal walls as the obturator foramen, the peri- neum, the ischiatic notch, the diaphragm, or the vagina. It is met with in subjects of every social condition, but most fre- quently amongst the so-called working classes; and, probably, as Mr. Kingdon informs us in his e.vcellent paper on hernia (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1864) because “ hernia occurs oftenest in the most numerous classes, and not in the most laborious.” Hereditary predisposition to hernia is also doubtless a reality; a third of all cases acknowledging a history of having a ruptured parent; such predisposition probably existing as a general laxity of the mesenteric folds and parietal layer of peritoneum. 1 have been called upon to operate on an old gentleman, the male branches of whose family for four generations—twelve in all—have been ruptured. Inguinal hernia is often due to a failure in the natural closure of the sheath of peritoneum that travels down wdth the descending testicle, which failure is more common on the right side. Subjects who are congenitally feeble, and others who become weak from illness or old age, are more liable to hernia than the robust, the weakness of the abdominal parietes yielding to the natural pressure of the abdominal contents under the influence of some sudden or prolonged muscular exertion. Although a large num- ber of the cases of hernia are slow in their development, many are sudden, and in all, muscular exertion plays an important part, as Out of every 100 cases of hernia, 84 are inguinal, 10 femoral, and 5 umbilical. It is more common in males than females, in the proportion of 4 to 1; 18,492 females only having been applicants for trusses at the Truss Society, out of the total of 96,886 (‘ Report,’ 1871). Females are as liable to inguinal hernia as they are to femoral, the inguinal being most common in early life from the canal of Nuck being open ; the femoral in middle and old age. In females under 20 years of age there are 87 cases of inguinal hernia to 13 of femoral; and after 40 years there are 32 cases of inguinal to 68 of femoral. The largest number of cases of femoral hernia are developed during the child-bearing period of a woman’s life, that is, between 20 and 40 years of age. Prior to menstruation it is so rare as to be almost unknown. Kingdon gives only four such cases. In males, inguinal hernia is the usual form, Kingdon’s table showing that the largest number of cases occur during the first ten years of life, in consequence of the vaginal process of peritoneum that covers the spermatic cord being still open. It is about half as frequent between the ages of 10 and 20 years, while between 20 and 40 it is as common as it is at the early period of life, but its frequency rapidly diminishes after that period. I