DISEASES OF THE JAWS. 549 passed through the base of the growth, and removed by means of the galvanic ecraseur. A good result followed. Cancerous tumours are usually endosteal, and numerous are the cases 0„„cerou3 on record of the affection. They are met with in children and adults, tumours, and rarely are of the hard kind of cancer. They grow rapidly but soon break down, involving skin and all adjacent parts in the disease ; indeed, any rapid growth about the lower or the upper jaw should be su.spected as being cancerous. Almost all benign tumours are of slow growth. Treatment.—Tumours of the lower jaw as of the upper are to be treatment of treated by excision, which as a large operation is most successful. I tumours of have on eighteen occasions removed large portions of the jaws with lower jaw. but one death and that was from inflammation of the lungs. Heath says that Mr. Cusack removed large portions in seven cases with only one fatal result, and Dupuytren operated in twenty with only one death. Sir. W. Fergusson also informs us that his success has been very great, and Syme and Liston’s success is well known. Small tumours of the jaw, and particularly of the alveolus, may be '''’lien small. ; removed from the mouth with good cutting forceps. If more room be I required to manipulate in the mouth, an incision may be made out- I wards or downwards at the angle. On several occasions I have obtained all the room I required by making a horizontal incision below I the level of the jaw and a dissection of the soft parts off the bone. Mr. Maunder has shown that large portions of the lower jaw the seat of tumour may be taken away without external incision after detaching I periosteum by means of the raspatory. "When a large tumour has to be removed, it may readily be exposed vtiien large, by a curved incision carried along the posterior surface of the tumour r from above the angle of the jaw to the median line turning the soft Operation of I parts back. In doing this, the facial artery will be divided, and it e-’tcision. I should be at once secured at both ends by torsion ; the knife, says Fer- I, gnsson, being so lightly carried over the artery that it need not be n divided till the flap is being raised, thus saving blood. The labial i orifice rarely need be divided, and the incision should be stopped short I of this margin. The tumour having been exposed, its surface must be ' well ex.amined with the view of the removal of the growth by cutting away the external plate of bone which covers it in, which can be done by means of the gouge and bone forceps. This step may be looked ' upon as wise under most circumstances, especially in doubtful cases, as ;1 a large number of tumours of the jaw, particularly the cysts, may be II scooped out, and recovery ensue. If the tumour and jaw require ex- i cision a tooth must be extracted in front where the bone is to be divided I: and a small saw applied ; the bone should then be grasped with the Lion I forceps and drawn outwards—the surgeon cai'ef ully dividing all the soft I parts that hold it in position on its inner surface, keeping the knife close ' to the hone. When the disease stops at the angle the saw and forceps are I again to be applied and the tumour removed. Where disarticulation When dis- I is required on account of the extension of the disease, the jaw must be articuhition I forcibly depressed so as to bring the coronoid process within reach, and ' allow of the division of the insertion of the temporal muscle. The con- dyle may then be twisted out, the knife dividing cautiously such liga- I mentous fibres as are put on the stretch. Fergusson says that in doing ■ this, he has found the condyle actually separated from the periosteum on its inner side, thus facibtating its removal, and in two cases of iny own,