Source of liBemorrliage middle meningeal artery. Torn venous sinus. Interval of time between accident and effusion of blood. 216 INJURIES OP THE BRAIN COMPLICATING FRACTURE, break the bone, and general enough to shake the brain and cause a suspension of its functions. The importance of these, however, lies in the injury the brain has sustained, and not upon the fracture; the fracture being only a complication, and so long as there is no depressed bone irritating and compressing the brain, the danger is in no way increased. If, however, in any given instance, the injury is complicated with laceration of one of the large arteries of the bone such as the middle meningeal artery, other conditions may arise which produce special symptoms. Fractures of the skull associated with extravasation of blood between the dura mater and the bone.—As the result of an injury to the skull, whether with or without a fracture, small extravasations of blood between the dura mater and the bone are not unfrequent, and are due to the rupture of some of the small vessels which pass from the bone to the dura mater beneath. They give rise to no symptoms by which they can be recognised, and usually are only discovered after death. When any large extravasation occurs, the blood comes, as a rule, from the trunk or from one of the branches of the middle meningeal artery, which runs upward in a groove of the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides to supply the lateral parts of the base and vault of the cranium. A fissure, therefore, of the bone in these parts may lacerate one of these branches, and give rise to a hsemori’hage suffi- ciently copious to produce symptoms of compression of the brain. It is well to know, however, that the brain will sustain a great deal of pressure without giving rise to any symptoms, and that several ounces of effused blood rapidly poured out are required to produce such symptoms as are recognisable. In rare instances the htemorrhage may come from one of the lai’ge venous sinuses which has been torn. The following is an excellent case to illustrate the accident: Case.—A man, set. 49, when riding in a gig, was thrown out upon his head. The accident produced a scalp wound over the left side of the vertex and some slight insensibility. He got i;p and walked for half an hour, when he became confused, staggered, and went into a shop, being supposed by the shopkeeper to be intoxicated, but as he gradually became quite insensible he was brought to Guy’s. When admitted he was perfectly unconscious and comatose, with dilated pupils, labouring pulse, and slow respiration. Soon afterwards he became convulsed, the right arm being more affected than any other part, which in a few hours, however, became paralysed. He remained in this con- dition for two days, and died comatose. After death, upon removing the calvaria, which was fissured in a vertical direction from the middle of the left parietal bone to the jugular foramen, a large clot of blood was seen lying upon the dura mater, clearly proceeding from the middle meningeal artery. This was about two and a half inches in diameter, and more than an inch in thickness. It formed a globular tumour, and caused an extensive depression upon the left cerebral hemisphere, which pressed the longitudinal fissure to the right side. The brain itself was healthy. Prep. 1606*® in Guy’s Hosp. Mus. shows the condition. In Fig. 69 these parts are well seen. Such a case may fairly be accepted as a typical example of this form of injury, and special attention should be paid to the fact, that the man recovered from the immediate effects or shock of the accident, remained sensible for a definite period, and then gradually became unconscious.