FRACTURES OP THE JAW. 553 examples of fracture of the upper jaw I have seen, occurred in a man, set. 30, from a fall from a height. Both upper jaws were completely detached from the skull and could be moved about in any direction, yet a good recovery ensued. I saw a second in an asylum and it was caused by the blow of a lunatic’s fist. In this case the whole of the alveolar pro- cess of the right upper jaw was broken off, and the lower fractured in two places. Treatment.—Where no displacement has taken place, little treat- Treatment, ment is required j the parts should be left alone as natural processes will effect a cure. When displacement exists and can be remedied by manipulation, such means should be applied, some slight retentive bandage with or without a pad being employed to keep the parts in i position. When the palate plate is much interfered with and displaced, 1 the dentist’s aid may be called into requisition, a gold plate well I adapted to the parts tending to keep the fragments together; vide 1 Salter, ‘ Lancet,’ 1860. Haemorrhage, as a rule, can be arrested by the ; application of ice or styptics. When the soft parts are injured and i bleeding takes place from them, the vessel should be secured. When When I the bone is comminuted, there is no need for the removal of fragments; comminuted. Malgaigne laid this down as a law, and all surgeons now follow it, ' though Hamilton asserts, that owing to the extreme vascularity of the I bones composing the upper jaw, the fragments have been found to ■ unite, after the most severe gunshot injuries. In rare cases of separa- I tion of the maxillae, says Heath, a spring passing behind the head I and causing pressure upon the maxillae, after the manner of Hainsby’s f harelip apparatus, might be advantageously employed. I Fractures of the lower jaw like those of the upper are, as a rule, the Fractures of D result of direct violence, and, when produced by gunshot injuries, are, t''c lower I. at times, most severe. They are almost always compound, that is, towards ^g^jerally the mouth, the gum tissues readily giving way. The body of the bone compound. 1 is more frequently broken than any other part, although the ramus and I the neck of the jaw may be fractured. The line of fracture is generally i oblique and very commonly near the canine tooth. Double frac- j tures are very common, eleven out of twenty-four cases recorded by I Hamilton being of this nature. Comminuted fractures are more rare. f. A case came under the care of Mr. Poland, at Guy’s in which the jaw r was broken in five places by the kick of a horse. The symptoms of Symptoms, a fracture are generally very clear, crepitus being often felt by the i patient in attempting to move the jaw, and readily made out by the s surgeon. The irregularity of the teeth is also a very characteristic I symptom, and the care of the patient to hold the parts in position i, conjoined wth his inability to speak is a typical sign. When any doubt exists as to the presence of a fracture the mobility of the broken bones I will disperse it. Considerable displacement sometimes complicates the ; case, the position and the line of fracture determining this point; an r oblique fracture near the insertion of a large muscle, as the masseter, 1 necessarily showing a tendency to override. In double fracture of the ' body of the bone, this displacement is usually very marked, the muscles I connecting the lower jaw with the hyoid hone drawing the lower por- ■ tion down. In some this displacement cannot be completely remedied. Fractures of the neck of the jaw are always the result of direct Fractures of >1 violence, and are not very readily made out; pain aggravated by any attempt to move the jaw being a constant symptom, and so also is ere-