MORTIFICATION. 35 least twice in tbe twenty-four Lours, with some camphor spirit and water, vinegar and water, or nitrous ether and water, in the proportion of one part to three. An artificial covering of the flexible collodion is occa- sionally of great use. When the parts are about to slough, these applications, however, are useless, and nothing but the removal of pressure will suffice. With this object, well-filled water beds and water or air cushions should be Beds, employed. I have found a mattress divided transversely into three parts and a water cushion substituted for the middle section of great use. At other times the sections of the mattress may be simply separated for a few inches in the line of pressure. In spare patients, where the spinous processes of the vertebrm are prominent, thin strips of felt plaster placed vertically down the back give great relief, and the same plaster applied to other painful parts is of value; cushions of amadou and well-adjusted pads of cotton wool or spongio-piline are also always of service. When sloughing is present, a linseed-and-bread poultice with a solu- tion of carbolic acid, of iodine, Condy’s fiuid or charcoal sprinkled upon the surface is the best application, though a carrot or yeast poul- tice occasionally cleans tbe wound. When the slough has separated, some stimulating lotion or ointment may be required; this is best applied on cotton wool. In all cases where patients have to rest for a lengthened period, careful attention should be paid to keep the bed smooth, and the sheets free from rucks. Corded or feather beds should not be used. The best is a horse-hair mattress placed upon a second or spring bed. MORTIFICATION, TRAUMATIC, ARTERIAL, AND VENOUS. The mortification of any part of the body signifies its death. When Definition, a soft part is “ dying,” it is said to be in a state of ” gangrene; ” and when “ dead,” in that of “ sphacelus.” The dead portion is called a ‘‘ slough,” and the process of separation tbe act of “ sloughing.” When bone is dead, the term “ necrosis ” is employed; the dead portion being called the “ sequestrum,” and the process of its separation “ ex- foliation.” The dead portion of any tissue is thrown off from the living by means of ulceration; and when the slough has separated, the parts heal by granulation, as an ordinary wound. In tbe “ sloughing phagedaena ” the two processes of ulceration and sloughing are combined, the mole- cular death of a part, or ulceration, going on with the more general destruction of gangrene. Direct violence, mechanical or chemical, may be the cause of morti- Causes, fication, either by destroying the vitality of a part at once, or by ex- citing iuflammation in it which induces its death, such cases being called "traumatic.” In this group a large proportion of tbe cases of gan- a. Traumatic, grene are found. In the second group are found those in which a part is starved, the i. Anwmic. mam artery of a limb being obstructed, either from operation, accident, or disease—this may be called anmmic gangrene. In the third group may be classed all those cases in which the stagna- c. Static, tion ot blood is caused by the mechanical arrest of the circulation