CtTKVATUEE OP THE SPINE. 281 A boy, £Bt. 3, was brought to me at Guy’s, in 1862, for some affection Examples, of his upper cervical vertebrae, consequent on a fall down stairs upon his head. An abscess formed two months after the accident behind the left steruo-cleido-mastoid muscle, from which place a piece of the lamina of a vertebra escaped six months afterwards. He kept his bed for upwards of a year, when he got up with a stiff neck. He was unable to nod or rotate the head, clearly showing that the joints between the occipital bone and the first two vertebraj had been diseased and become anchylosed. In 1867 this boy again came under my notice. His head was quite fixed; the cervical vertebrae seemed shorter than usual, but no irregularity existed. The annexed drawings (Figs. 86, 86a, 86b), taken from Ellen T—, set. 14, a patient of Mr. Poland's, illustrate a severe case of cervical disease with lateral deformity. In this patient, a good result was obtained by means of the apparatus depicted in Fig. 86b, the cure resulting in anchylosis. Fig. 86. Fig. 86a. Fig. 86b. From any of these abscesses bone may exfoliate, and it may be coughed Exfoliation up from the pharynx, or discharged through the neck. I have seen a mass of bone, of bone, the size of a nut, come away from a lumbar abscess, and a piece of bone, clearly spinal, discharged from an abscess of the thigh, opening above the knee-joint. In a case brought under my notice by a valued dresser, Mr. Burgess, the anterior half of the atlas, with its articular facets, was expectorated, recovery ensuing; and, in Guy s Hosp. Museum, there is a preparation of the odontoid process similarly got rid of. In fact, from all these spinal abscesses, bone may 06^ discharged, and, what is more, recovery follow. Suppuration, however, does not always take place. A woman. Anchylosis set. 30, came under niy care in 1859 for a stiffness of her head and without neck, that had been increasing for two years, and which she regarded as rheumatic. When I saw her the head was immovably fixed and slightly rotated to the right side. Rotation and nodding were impos- sible. There was much thickening about tbe cervical vertebrae, with pains darting upward to the vertex and downward to the shoulder. By rest iu bed, fomentations, and tonics, all these disappeared and recovery ensued, but with a stiff neck. My colleague. Dr. Fa^o-e has also recorded in the ‘Path. Soc. Trans.’ for 1877 a remarkable case of synostosis of the arches of the vertebrae, of the ribs to the vertebrae,