172 PERFORATING ULCER OF THE FOOT, Mode of progress. Treatment. On perforating ulcer of foot Ndlaton’s description. Treatment. found chiefly on the exposed parts of man, such as the hands and face, and begins as a small, red, inflamed and itching spot, which in twelve or fifteen hours vesiculates, the skin beneath the vesicle appearing as a dry brown or black slough. In the course of the second day, another crop of vesicles appears around the original seat of the disease, which run the same course. About this time the seat of the original disease becomes more swollen, appearing as a defined lump (“ bouton”), the parts around being oedematous, and the whole subsequently sloughing. In this stage of the disease there is little pain, the slough is always dry, and there is no pus / the sloughing spreads from the skin down to the subcutaneous tissue instead of as in carbuncle, from the latter to the former. Malignant pustule is also rapid in its progress, four to nine days seeing its end. It is usually ushered in with rigors and symptoms of depression, followed by vomiting and great depression; often cold sweats and delirium occur, and the patient dies from the depressing influence of the animal poison before its local efifects have had time to work. In young subjects, the prospects of recovery are greater than in the old, and, when the hands are involved, the chance is better than when the head is afifected. Treatment.—The disease being in its nature local, local treatment is to he preferred, and Bourgeois tells us, that the free application of some caustic, such as the potassa fusa, so as to destroy fully the primary vesicles in their early stage, is the best treatment; and, in more advanced cases the excision of the slough and the free use of the same caustic is to be recommended. Tonics, diffusible stimulants, and such means as are usually employed to guard against the tendency to death, are of great value. Perforating ulcer of the foot. This afi’ection was so called by Vesigne of Abbeville in 1850. It is an affection which Mr. Hancock has brought prominently before us in an able paper published in the ‘Brit. Med. Jonrn.,’ June 26th, 1869, although Cloquet, Boyer, and Nelaton, of Paris, have also described it. Nelaton says it “commences with phlyctsena in the pad of the foot. The epidermis is raised by a small quantity of purulent serum. Others describe it as commencing like a flat corn, which ulcerates. When this is opened, the subjacent dermis appears of a rose colour, and when touched is highly sensitive. This state may continue for some time, when the dermis in its turn gradually ulcerates, and a small fistulous opening is established in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which will not heal, but continues to discharge serum slightly tinged with pus. If after five or six weeks the sinus is examined by a probe, the subjacent bone is felt rough and necrosed, and a sequestrum subsequently forms.” The disease is probably hereditary, and is most obstinate in its cha- racter, generally spreading over years. It is, however, chiefly local, and confined to the anterior portion of the foot. Medicine has little power over it, although Fowler’s solution has been much vaunted for its cure, still with insufficient evidence, and, as far as facts can guide us, it appears Hancock’s conclusion is the only right one, and that is, that in the first instance, when dead bone exists, it should be removed. But if, notwithstanding, the disease returns, there can no longer be a ques-