207 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. notes of a case o£ injury to the head in wliich the patient apparently died from bleeding from the nose and mouth, no blood coming from the ear; and, after death, a fracture of the base was found, completely separating the petrous portion of the temporal bone from its connec- Laceration of tions, and laying open the lateral sinus. The right tympanum was full lateral sinus, of blood, but the membrana tympani was entire. The stomach was full of blood, the blood from tbe lateral sinus having apparently found its way through the Eustachian tube into tbe pharyn.x and stomach. I have also the particulars of a second case, in which the carotid ^ceration of artery was divided in its passage through the petrous bone, and the lateral sinus laid open, the lungs and bronchial tubes being found filled with blood, even down to tbe air-cells. Each of these lived only two hours after the accident. Fracture of the base, unassociated with any injury to the brain itself, is of no more consequence than fracture of another part; but I as the base is the most delicate part of the brain, and any injury to I it is sure to be followed by severe, if not fatal, symptoms, the subject ( of fracture of the bones upon wliich it rests becomes of proportionally greater interest. This fracture of the base may be associated with all the intra- Generally cephalic injuries to which fractures of the vault are liable. It may be attended with complicated with simple) concussion of the brain, or with the more '’’’“hi injury, severe form associated with laceration of the brain-structure, or ex- Itravasation of blood upon or within the brain itself. If blood is effused there may be compression of the brain followed by death, or the same result may be produced by a secondary inflammation of the membranes and injured parts. It is difficult upon tbe whole to separate the two classes of cases, inasmuch as the dangers arising from injuries to the skull do not depend upon the seat of fracture but upon the injuries to the cranial con- tents; and, as the same injuries may be produced by, or rather may be associated with, fractures of the base, the complications and dangers are the same in each. Having, then, so far shown that the dangers of all forms of fracture of the skull are really alike, and that the same iutracephalic complica- tions attend fractures whether the vault or of the base, I now ■ proceed to illustrate the special symptoms generally regarded as being • diagnostic of such injuries, by a brief analysis of cases from my note- book. i Aniong thirty examples which are there recorded, twelve were a. Analysis 4 associated with simple concussion, in all of which recovery took 9^ cases'as 4 place. In three cases the fractures extended through tbe orbit as ill indicated by subconjunctival ecchymosis. In eight there was haemor- symptoms in A rhage from the ears; in all, this was followed by a discharge of serum, injury, ik and in seven of the cases it was associated with paralysis of the facial T nerve upon the same side. In these it is quite fair to conclude that Sf- the line of fracture extended through the petrous portion of the 0) temporal bone. In two there was bleeding from the nose; in one <4 there was a serous discharge from the cm, accompanied by paralysis t of the facial; in another this discharge followed haemorrhage from the i ear, and was unaccompanied by paralysis. * To test the value of these different symptoms as indicating fracture 1 of the base in various positions, the following analysis of tbe fatal cases i