TUMOURS. 108 Caustics. Lipomatous tumours. Causes. Symptoms. this may he done by the injection into the cyst of some caustic, such as a few drops of deliquescent chloride of zinc, of carbolic acid, or the external application of nitric acid, or potassa fusa, to produce a slough through the skin, when the contents of the cyst may he turned or drawn out. The dermoid cysts of the ovary are only of pathological interest, as are the dentigerous cysts of these parts. The dentigerous cyst of the jaw will be treated of in the chapter on diseases of the jaws. Fatty tumours, otherwise called lipomata or steatomata, are very common. They are found wherever fat exists naturally in the body; and, as this material is more especially deposited in the integument, it is in and beneath this that fatty tumours are most frequently met with. They occur at all periods of life, from infancy to old age, and are even congenital. They attack the male sex as welt as the female but they are three times as common in the latter. They are generally single, hut occasionally multiple. I have seen a case in which the whole integument was studded with them, and under these circumstances they are usually small. It is impossible to assign any valid cause for their development, hereditary and accidental causes having a doubtful influence. They are troublesome only from their position and the deformity they occasion (Fig. 19), and are at times the seat of pain, though such a symptom must be looked upon as an accident Usually encapsuled. due to their position. These tumours are, as a rule, “eucapsuledj I'lG. 19. Uiugnosis. although in rare cases they are “ continuous’ or “ diffused.” This latter variety differs only from the former in that they are made up of smaller lobules of fat, and are more dense, while they are more common about the nape of the neck and face than the en- capsuled variety; the large double chin be- ing an example of the continuous lipoma, and congenital lipomata are generally of this nature. The encysted lipomata are most com- mon on the shoulder, thigh, and trunk ; some are deep-seated, as between the muscles of the limbs, or within the abdomen, or scrotum. Fatty tumours at times shift their position, that is, they drop down- wards ; several such cases have passed under my notice, in which the tumour has travelled some distance. Such an occurrence is peculiar to this form of tumour, and sufBces to fix its nature. The diagnosis is not usually difficult. If the tumour be deep a doubt maybe felt, but, practically, the question is not of great moment. fatty tumour of 37 years’ growth on arm of woman, tet. 69.