536 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONSILS, ETC. Cancer of the Tonsil. Cancer of the tonsil. Varieties. Characters. Treatment palliative. Cheever’s mode of excision. This rapidly fatal affection happily is rare, and has not received much attention. It may appear as a primary or secondary affection, and in the encephaloid or fibrous form. Theyorwer^being the more frequent and rapid in its course, destroys life mechanically by secondary glan- dular enlargement, as well as by pharyngeal and laryngeal obstruction —the latter is seen mostly as an ulceration, and proves fatal by ex- haustion. I have in one case seen this disease cause death by sudden and violent haemorrhage owing to extension to and perforation of the internal carotid artery. This affection begins as an ordinary enlargement of the gland, but more rapid in its growth, and is mostly attended by early enlargement of the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw, and subsequently of those of the neck. When it ulcerates, the ulcer assumes the indurated jagged appearance of a cancerous sore, not unlike the deep syphi- litic sore after the breaking down of a gummy tumour. It has, however, a more indurated base and border than the syphilitic. It attacks men mostly of middle age, but I have had under my care a sweep only seventeen years of age, with the hard form. I have the records of three other cases in males, aged respectively 49, 62, and 65. Teeatment.—Palliative treatment is probably the best to adopt, al- though Dr. Cheever, of Boston, has proved that the tonsil may be successfully extirpated by external incision (‘ Boston Med. Surg. Journ.,’ 1871). Its removal from within seems almost hopeless, whether by caustics—Maissonneuve’s plan—the ecraseur, or enucleation. I at- tempted the latter in one case only with partial success—and the operation prolonged life. Dr. Cheever performed his operation through an incision made below the angle of the jaw of three and a half inches, along the ante- rior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, with a second incision ex- tending along the lower border of the jaw. The flaps were reflected and a large gland enucleated. The digastric, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-glossus muscles were cut—the fibres of the superior constrictor being divided upon a director. The pharynx was opened. The finger of the operator was then swept round the diseased tonsU- litic mass which was enucleated. The haemorrhage was free though not excessive, and twelve ligatures were applied. A steady con- valescence followed. “The facilities,” adds Dr. Cheever, “with which the tonsil can be enucleated with the finger is surprising.” This operation may probably be justifiable and beneficial in those cases before the glands are too far involved. For further information on this subject, reference may be made to the article “Amygdales, No. 2,” ‘ Dictionnaire de Medecine,’ 1865, and to Poland’s article, ‘ Brit, and Foreign Review,’ April, 1872.