721 TJLCEEATION OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. Treatment.—Palliative treatment can alone be thought of, such as Treatment of the maintenance and improvement of the general health by diet and tonics; the removal of all local causes of irritation by the use of laxa- tives to render the motions more liquid and consequently more easy for evacuation; and the relief of pain by the use of euemata of starch and opium or by morphia suppositories. In the very early stage of the affection before ulceration has taken place, the use of bougies may be justifiable and useful, but when ulcera- tion exists they are injurious and dangerous. When the obstruction becomes a symptom of importance, surgical treatment will have to be thought of; but this will be considered under the heading of stric- ture of the bowel. Complications of ulceration. Complica- All cases of ulceration of the rectum may go on to cause stricture; j, the cancerous cases to a certainty must, the syphilitic often do, and the simple may when extensive. The two latter cause a cicatricial stricture Stricture as a resulting from the contraction of the cicatricial tissue in the mucous and svibmucous tissue; the first producing a stricture by simple incre- ment. They may also all be complicated with deep-seated abscesses and fistula, and with hemorrhoids. The surgeon should therefore haniorrhoids always be careful when treating these affections to examine the rectum minutely, as it is only too common to meet with cases that have been subjected to useless operations for piles and fistula, when these affec- tions were the results of a far more serious disease, such as stricture or ulceration of the rectum. Again, any of these forms of ulceration may extend into the bladder Ulceration or urethra. I have had five examples of such cases of vesico-intestinal bladder, fistula under my care in males, and one in a female, in all of which the agonies of a foreign body in the bladder were added to those pro- duced by the ulceration, and in the four male cases complete relief was afforded by colotomy. In three of these the ulceration seemed to be of the simple kind. In another the existence of rectal ulceration was first revealed by a sudden rush of urine through the rectum after an attack of retention. I have seen many cases of recto-vaginal fistula as a consequence of Ulceration syphilitic and cancerous disease. ''“guia. Stricture of the Rectum. In the majority of cases this is caused by cancerous disease, in many On stricture it is the result of an inflammatory process, simple or syphilitic, from the cicatrization of deep-seated and extensive ulceration; in others, it is due to the contraction of inflammatory material poured out external Causes, to the bowel in the submucous tissue; in exceptional instances, it may arise from contraction of the parts external to the bowel after pelvic cellulitis, and Curling quotes a case where it was the direct result of an injury. In all these conditions, the calibre of the intestine is gradually or Condition of rapidly encroached upon, till at last complete obstruction takes place. incases 1'he stricture may appear after death as an annular contraction of the ° bowel with adventitious material in the submucous tissue and hyper- trophy of the muscular coat, looking very like a so-called scirrhous pylorus; or as a thickened, ulcerated, irregular mass of cancerous material infiltrating all the tissues of the bowel, although rarely VOL. I. 40