493 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. of tlie blood iu the vein and around its orifice. But these processes are slow in their action, very feeble, and practically insulEcient. For- tunately, however, haemorrhage from a divided vein is easily arrested by well-adjusted pressure and by elevation of the limb. After amputa- tions, if venous bleeding persist on the removal of the tourniquet, and. should the means just indicated have failed, the bleeding vein may be acupressed, ligatured, or, what is better, twisted, to stop it. When deep veins of large size are divided and cannot be treated, a fatal result rapidly ensues. A pa/rtially divided vein often gives much trouble, although not Partial when superficial, because the elevation of the limb, and a compress care- division- fully strapped or bandaged over the wounded part, are generally suffi- cient to check the bleeding, and in three or four days, repair may fairly be expected. Wounds of deep veins, however, are of grave importance, for they Wounds of may be so situated that pressure cannot be applied, or, bleeding may ''eias.) be so profuse as to cause speedy death; and further, unhealthy inflam- mation of the vein may follow with all its dangers. In wounds of any of the veins of the extremities well-applied pres- Treatment, sure is, as a rule, suflicient to arrest bleeding, and give time for repair, Pressm-e. although when the trunk of the femoral vein is wounded in operation, as in ligature of the femoral artery, the opening in the vein may be taken up, when it is in view, with a pair of forceps and tied with a fine silk ligature. The same should be done to a punctured wound of the Ligature, internal jugular, or any large vein. When this practice cannot be carried out the whole vein must be tied. Wounded veins, indeed, may be treated on the same principles as wounded arteries. When pressure is enough to arrest haemorrhage from a vein, however large, the ligature is not required; but when it fails, or is inapplicable, the ligature may be fearlessly employed. The dread of setting up phlebitis by ligatur- ing veins is based on prejudice and not on experience; it is doubtless due to the influence of authorities who have pronounced ag^ainst it. It cannot, however, be disputed that phlebitis occasionally follows the surgical treatment of veins. When it occurs the affection is serious, and takes place only in the enfeebled and cachectic. Wounds of the internal jugular and subclavian veins are as fatal. Wounds of and probably more so, as wounds of the carotid or subclavian arteries, iutemal When the internal jugular is wounded near the base of the skull life is speedily destroyed, and, when near its cardiac end, to the danger of veins, hsemorrhage is added that of the introduction of air into the heart. When the internal jugular is divided above the clavicle, the orifice remains open ; the walls not collapsing as they would at a greater dis- tance, owing to their connections with the deep cervical fascia; reflux bleeding consequently takes place from the cardiac end, and, during some violent inspiratory act, air may be drawn into the circulation and into the heart, causing death. Hence great care is always required in ope- rating about the root of the neck to avoid large veins, and to compress or ligature them when wounded. When death transpires from primary hmmorrhage from the internal jugular it is generally within an hour. I recorded iu the ‘ Trans, of Path. Soc.’ in 1857 such a case which occurred in the practice of Mr. Birkett, a second was recorded by Mr. Henry Gray in ‘Holmes’ Surgery,’ and a third by Mr. Samuel Cooper in his ‘ First Lines of Surgery.’