H30MORRHOID8. 710 May simulate polypus. Treatment of piles. Palliative. Diet. Laxatives. disease and certainly in increasing it, but sedentary occupations and high living appear to have a stronger efl'ect. In the prosperous classes of society this malady is said to be common, although in the poor, dady hospital experience does not help to confirm the notion that it is rare. Whatever tends to retard the fiow of blood from the hajmorrhoidal veins, such as pregnancy and abdominal tumours, aggravates the disease, and whatever tends to keep up irritation in the rectum, such as drastic purgatives, worms, and pungent food, acts in a similar manner. A pile may be mistaken for a polypus, but the smooth, firm surface and pedunculated form of the latter will reveal its true nature. Again, a ring of piles might be confounded with prolapse of the rec- tum, but the uniform smooth and generally non-bleeding surface of the latter, with its broad attachments, ought to be enough to prevent the error. External piles when ulcerated may also assume very much the aspect of venereal anal outgrowths, which can be made out only by the history of the case and other clinical symptoms. Finally, it must not be forgotten, that haemorrhoids may be merely a consequence of another disease, such as stricture of the rectum. Treatment.—All piles do not require removal. In the early period of their growth they may be so successfully treated by what is called palliative treatment as to render more active measures unnecessary; and, in the very cachectic and diseased, it may not be expedient to do more than relieve; although it must be added, that unless organic disease exists to threaten life, there are few general conditions of a patient that forbid the removal of a severe bleeding pile. Again, when piles occur in plethoric subjects who are, perhaps, what has been de- scribed as apoplectic or gouty, and an attack of them is preceded by constitutional disturbance and followed by relief, the surgeon should be careful in checking suddenly the flow of blood, as such a measure is undoubtedly sometimes followed by alarming constitutional symptoms, though such cases are rare. T\\e palliative ov general treatment of piles means attention to diet; the giving up of high living, and the taking of simple nutritious food in moderation, beer and spirits in particular being avoided. The bowels should be regulated by the Mistura Olei already described (p. 701), or by castor oil, rhubarb and magnesia, or some saline medi- cine or mineral water, such as Vichy, Friedrichshall, or Pullna, and when these fail, by enemata. Indeed, the daily enema of cold water or the use of the rectum plug through which cold water is allowed to flow is of great value. Violent purgation, more particularly by aloes and colocynth, should be avoided. Some prescribe copaiba, but its nauseous qualities forbid its general use. The confections of senna or sulphur are useful, and that of black pepper (Ward’s paste) has been always popular. A mixture of confection of senna 5j, confection of sulphur 3j, powdered guaiacum 5ij, and treacle, is very beneficial Dr. Cleland recommends (‘Practitioner,’ Jan., 1876) the use of the liquor bismuthi 3ij, mixed with of starch, as an enema, to be used at night in prolapsus recti. In piles, both in the child and adult, drachm doses of glycerine, combined with 15 grains of citric acid and some vegetable bitter three times a day, may be administered. When the secretions of the liver and intestines are unhealthy, a