114 TUMOURS. Seat. Characters. Appearance on section. Microscopic characters. On glandular or adenoid tumours. Situation. Characters. Encapsuled. Appearance on section. May contain cysts. mouly ill the hone, and when in this position usually in the articular end. The term was given to the class by Paget on account of the likeness between its cells and those of foetal marrow. Lebert called them “ fibro-plastic,” and Virchow “ giant-celled sarcoma.” When these tumours are periosteal they have the clinical features of a fibrous growth; when within the bone, they appear as chronic expansions of the articular extremity or shaft. When large and so expanded as to have burst through their osseous case, they appear cystic and semi-fiuctuating—even to the extent of being pulsatile. They are usually slow in their progress, and often painless, and it is fair to suppose that many of the cases of cystic expansion of the articular extremity of a bone are due to myeloid disease. The disease is one of youth and young adult life; and the growth is usually single. It is not connected with any cachexia or glandular enlargement, as happens with cancer, and when removed it rarely returns. Instances of recurrence, however, have occurred, and I have seen one. Sir J. Paget has recorded others. A myeloid tumour presents in section a peculiar appearance. It may be solid or cystic in variable degrees; osseous matter, fibrous matter, or fluid may exist in different proportions ; yet in every specimen the cut surface will present blotches of a pomegranate crimson or of a darker blood colour, these tints mingling more or less regpilarly with those of the other tissues. Under the microscope the characteristic polynucleated cells are seen; these are large, round, or irregular cells containing many, even ten or more, oval, well-defined nucleated nuclei floating in a clear or granular substance. They are found in masses or distributed throughout the tumour between the bundles of fibre tissue. They are diagnostie of myeloid disease. With these cells Leberc’s caudate or spindle-shaped cells are also found (vide Pig. 29). Glandular or adenoid tumours are new growths simulating more or less perfectly the gland structure in the neighbourhood of which they grow, and are not hypertrophies of the glands, but distinct tumours. In the breast the usual innocent tumour of the organ is of this nature, and is called adenocele,hut it is also found intheprostate, uterus, lips, tonsil, thyroid and inte’gument. They are not rare as lymphatic glandular tumours. Pig. 31 represents admirably the microscopical features of the adenomata as a class, and fig. 22 the appearance of such a tumour in section, some parts being solid and others composed of pendulous intracystic growths. They are generally growths of young life, and are found during the active period of a gland’s existence. They are always encapsuled, and can usually be turned out of their bed with ease on dividing the capsule. They generally assume a rounded or ovoid shape, and are distinctly movable beneath the integument which is not involved. “ On section,” says Paget, “they commonly appear lobed, or intersected with partitions of connective tissue, and are pale, greyish or yeUowish-white ; in some specimens looking translucent and glistening, in others opaque; in nearly all acinous or glandular. To the touch, some, especially the white and more opaque, are firm, tenacious, and elastic; others, especially the yellow and more glistening, are softish, brittle, slippery, and succulent, with fluid-like serum or synovia. Not rarely cysts are embedded in the solid growth, and these are filled with serous or other fluids like those which are found in the barren cysts of the mammary gland itself. In the