254 FEIGNED AND HYSTERICAL DISEASE. Summary. Feigned disease and hysteria contrasted. General remarks on feigned disease. Subjective symptoms. “ Wounds of the large arteries of the legs and arms from balls and shells always bleed more or less at the time of reception, and more freely as the shock to the nervous system passes off and reaction comes on. Even when this nervous shock is not sufficient to produce imme- diate death, the chances of ultimate recovery must frequently turn on the mere question of loss of blood.’’ (Hammond, U.S.) In military practice, primary amputation upon the field is now gene- rally preferred to secondary, and, in civil practice, a like rule should generally be enforced. To perform any capital operation on a patient in a condition of extreme collapse or shock is bad practice. To do so, however, when a minor degree exists, and the pulse can be felt, when, by delay, other dangers are to be expected such as continued or renewed haemorrhage, is sound and good surgery. To an unconscious or only slightly con- scious patient, chloroform is not necessary. To the conscious it has often a beneficial action, and tends towards the encouragement of reaction. FEIGNED AND HYSTERICAL OR MIMICKED DISEASE. I have placed these two classes of cases together for purposes of convenience, and in this section as they are essentially diseases of the nervous system. Both, in a measure, and with difierent de- grees of accuracy, simulate real or organic disease, while feigned disease is a deception, and hysterical a reality. In the former the will of the patient is strong to deceive, it is bent to simulate the symptoms of an affection of which the individual knows something, though not all, and from this, the full knowledge of the surgeon or physician is to override the imperfect knowledge of the impostor and to expose him. In the latter the will of the patient is weak j functional derangement is allowed to assume the garb of organic disease; subjective symptoms are intensified, not, however, from motives of deception, hut from a want of the controlling infiuence of health more particularly of the nervous centres, a condition of hyperassthesia commonly existing from some imperfect nutrition of the nervous centres. In exceptional cases anmsthesia is present, more particularly in the larynx. Feigned disease is a voluntary deception from beginning to end, and is unreal. Hysterical disease is an involuntary exaggeration of some functional derangement, “an unwilling imitation of organic dis- ease,” and real. Feigned affections are met with chiefly in the intellectually weak, or those of crafty character, and, in a general point of view are attended with an exaggeration of symptoms far beyond those met with in real or organic disease; pain is said to he far more intense than is usually met with, and paralysis more complete; every symptom simulated is extreme; inconsistencies are present which are not reconcilable with those symptoms usually met with in the disease simulated, and these incon- sistencies and exaggerations should always excite suspicion in the mind of the practitioner, causing him to test quietly every symptom or group of symptoms, and to doubt his diagnosis until he has proved its truth. To the subjective symptoms, or those complained of by the patient, these remarks are very applicable; but to the objective, or those palpable to the observer, they are so to a degree. The subjective symptoms are