638 DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. Mode of removal. Cancerous Polypus. Vascular tumours. Abscess about gums. the root fang of an upper incisor tooth which had been growing for three or four years. Fig, 211 illustrates the swelling of the gum before the removal of the disease; and Fig. 213, a section of the odontome. My friends, Messrs. Salter and Moon, informed me that this is a unique case. In the diagnosis of such a case, the protrusion of the crown of the tooth becomes a valuable guide. Fig. 212. Fig. 213. Odontome after removal. Section of odontome, showing expanded thickened root of incisor tooth. Treatment.—The removal of the disease, of the teeth or stumps that are involved in it as well as of the bones with which it is con- nected, is the only sound practice to adopt. A good pair of cutting pliers, which will nip off as much of the alveolar process as seems in- volved, is the best instrument to use, a small hand saw having marked out vertically the limit of the incision. When the bone is not removed, a return of the disease is almost certain. A cancerous disease of the gums puts on precisely similar appear- ances to those seen in similar diseases of the fauces, face, or tongue —an irregular, excavated, ulcerating surface, discharging foetid pus, associated with pain, and glandular enlargement marking its true nature. Most of the cases of cancerous epulis are epithelial. The benign form of epulis is generally an affection of young life, and the cancerous of the old and middle-aged. Polypus of the gum or outgrowths of gum structure, are due to the irritation of carious teeth or to uncleanly habits. They can be cured by the removal of the growth and its cause. Vascular tumours are met with on the gums and generally found between tbe front teeth. They are sometimes but not always associated with carious teeth. The outgrowth is usually small and more or less pedunculated, bleeding on the slightest manipulation. The vascular tumour occasionally presents more the features of a nsevus. I have destroyed many of these growths by means of the galvanic cautery with success, but they can be removed by the knife or any caustic. When a carious tooth appears to be the cause of the disease it should be at once removed. Abscesses about the gums are very common, and are frequently the result of disease of the teeth. Dentists tell us, however, that these gum-boils rarely induce any disease of the bone, though they some- times arise from it. When connected with a carious tooth, and are of long standing, nothing but the removal of the tooth will effect a