46 ERYSIPELAS. h. Lociil symptonas. In mild form. In severer form. Course and duration. Prognosis. On diffused cellular inflammation as a form of erysipelas. Local symptoms. In the simple form of cutaneous erysipelas, mere excess of vascu- larity as indicated hy the vivid redness of the part affected, is the one local symptom; this redness rapidly spreads. A sensation of heat or tingling in the part, and, in rare instances, small vesicatlons may he present. On pressure the redness will disappear, to return directly the pressure is removed, but there will be no pitting of the parts to indicate oedema. In a day or two these symptoms will subside or disappear, the cuticle desquamating. In the more severe form of cutaneous erysipelas, the vascularity of the skin will he as intense as in the simple, but it may be more livid. It will be associated with some perceptible thickening of the parts—the inflamed tissues feeling raised on palpation. This inflammation will spread rapidly in one or other direction, sometimes occurring in patches, and these patches joining. Where much cellular tissue exists, oedema will rapidly show itself, as in the eyelids or scrotum. Small or large vesicles form on the surface containing either a clear serum or a blood-stained or sero-purulent fluid, the latter form indicating great depression. In the head or other parts where the skin is tight, the feeling of tension is very great and the surface looks shining, the features being altogether obliterated. There is rarely, however, much pain. The border of inflammation is invariably well defined. The disease runs its course in about ten days. During the first three or four it spreads, and, having reached its height, declines, the redness and swelling gradually subsiding and the skin desquamating. In some cases a local suppuration takes place, and this is always to be suspected when any local redness remains after the subsidence of the inflam- mation. In the eyelids and other parts containing loose cellular tissue such a result is common. In the cachectic subject the disease is always more oedematous than in the healthy. When it attacks a wound the .general symptoms are the same, but the local consist in arrest of secre- tion in the part, and then ulceration. Where union has existed, disunion appears, stumps and wounds sometimes reopening and discharging a thin ichorous fluid. After the disease has subsided, repair is usually slow, but at times, it goes on healthily to complete recovery. Simple erysipelas, unless in the feeble or cachectic, is rarely a disease of much danger. When it attacks the scalp after head injuries it is exceptional to find it followed by bad consequences. In free living subjects, and in others who have bad viscera, it is a dangerous affection, lighting up latent disease that often proves fatal. Wliere the erysipelas attacks the mucous lining of the throat, fauces, or larynx, it may from mechanical causes, threaten life. In some cases the disease will affect different parts of the body con- secutively, or leave one spot to attack suddenly another. Such cases usually indicate want of power, and too often are found in those who have some organic disease of the kidney or other excretory organ. Diffuse cellular inflammation may clinically be looked upon as a form of erysipelas, the disease attacking primarily the cellular tissue instead of the skin. It is characterised by the same diffused form of inflam- mation and by the same atonic character. It is, however, more fre- quently the result of some local injury such as a punctured or dissec-