50 ERYSIPELAS. Treatment of erysipelas. Support the powers. Tonics. Stimulants. Sedatives with caution. Local treatment of erysipelas. of parts of the bowel; while to complete the history, it must also be said that at times when erysipelas is present in an hospital or its neigh- bourhood, not only are cases of pyaemia with the known manifes- tations frequent, such as abscesses in the viscera and pus in the joints j but patients suffering from chronic suppuration become feverish and die without, it may be, any adequate cause appearing in the viscera. In this description of the pathological appearances found in ery- sipelas no attempt is made to distinguish between it and cellulitis. The morbid changes in both are the same, and it is as impossible in the deadhouse as at the bedside to separate the two. Treatment.—The disease in all its forms being essentially an atonic one, nothing like “ antiphlogistic” remedies are to be entertained, and in the simpler forms which have a tendency to run a definite course, the practitioner has merely to guide his patient through the attack, and to ward off whatever might prove injurious. With these objects when the patient’s powers are good, and no indications of feebleness manifest themselves, a mild aperient or purge, to clear out the bowels, with bland nutritious food, such as milk and beef tea, are probably sufficient remedial means; the disease, on the third or fourth day, attaining its height, and then declining. Should any feebleness or want of power appear at the beginning or during the course of the disease, tonics are indicated, and of these ii’on seems the best. The tincture of the perchloride in half-drachm doses, or more to an adult frequently repeated, with or without quinine or strychnia, acts at times like a charm. Its use was introduced to British surgeons by Dr. H. Bell, of Edinburgh in 1851, and stands unrivalled, although Velpeau, in 1841, had previously declared its value. It doubtless often cuts short the disease. In the earliest stage of the affection, when the first patch of inflam- mation appears on the skin or around a wound, an emetic may at times abruptly check the attack. When food cannot be taken, stimulants must be substituted, and it is often possible to introduce into them, and particularly into stout, some essence of meat. The form of stimulant must depend upon cir- cumstances, but, as a rule, that which the patient has been in the habit of taking is the best. When brandy is given it should be mixed with milk or eggs, it being always better not to give stimulants alone. The amount must be regulated with care, for over-excitation of the system is always bad. Hypnotics or sedatives should be used with caution, for they are not usually beneficial. Of these, chloral seems less liable to disagree than opium; camphor and henbane in five-grain doses, are thought well of by some, while ammonia is as highly recommended by others. In phlegmonous and cellular erysipelas the same principles of practice are applicable. In the suppurative or sloughing stages it is necessary to give abundance of good food of all kinds, and stimulants in proportion; strong animal broths and milk are the best forms of diet. LocaXi Treatment.—The inflamed parts should always be kept warm and raised, air being excluded from the surface; consequently, when the head and face are implicated with simple erysipelas, the old practice of flouring the parts is effective. Warm fomentations, however.