402 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. Ci\tarrh of middle ear. Acute catarrh. Chronic catarrh. eyelet, by inaldng the perforation by the galvano-cautery, by removing a part of the malleus with a portion of the membrane, by the constant use of the air douche, by repeated removals of the cicatricial mem- brane, by digestion with pepsine, acids, &c. But as yet no method has been proposed which acts with certainty of success. The ordinary affections of the middie ear which the general practi- tioner will be called upon to treat are included under the title of “ catarrhal affections,” and may be of an acute or chronic character. The principal objective symptoms of acute catarrh are a hyperaemic swellingof the mucous membrane, with an increased secretion therefrom, the pharyngeal mucous membrane near the orifice of the Eustachian tube leading to the affected ear being nearly always implicated. This state of the mucous membrane gives to the observer who passes a current of air through the Eustachian tube and listens by means of an otoscope, one end of which is placed in the meatus of the patient and the other in his own, sounds ranging from a harsh dry sound, like that caused by distending a dry bladder, to a true mucous rale. The tympanic mem- brane varies in appearance, according to the stage of the affection, from that of a glancing polished copper plate to that of a dull wet bladder, from which all bright reflex has gone, corresponding to the dry and infiltrated states of the tissues. A more or less obliteration of the malleus may be present, depending upon the passage of the exudation between the layers of the membrane. A bulging of the membrane will be observed should an accumulation of fluid have taken place to a considerable extent. The chief subjective symptoms are a pain in the depth of the ear, which is increased by every motion of the parts, such as by coughing or swallowing, an Impairment of hearing, a feeling of heaviness, fulness or pressure in the ear, often described as a “ drop of water in the ear ” tinnitus of various characters, as singing, knocking, or surging, the position of which, whether outside or inside the head, the patient cannot always tell, giddiness, confusion of thought, and other symptoms of pressure. The subacute form is merely a combina- tion of the same symptoms in a milder degree. If the case is pro- perly attended to while in the acute stage no graver disturbances of the organism ought to arise, but it must always be remembered that the tendency of the affection being to thickening and swelling of the membranes implicated, adhesions and solderings are apt to take place between the closely situated delicate structures of the tympanic cavity. The general position of such adhesions is between the manu- brium and promontory, the tympanic membrane and incus or stapes, the tendon of the tensor tympani and stapes, and especially often in the niches of the two fenestrse, binding the walls together or to the stapes. But should the acute stage be neglected the acute passes into the chronic form, generally, like the acute, implicating both tube and cavity. It may, however, be localised, and consist in repeated swell- ings with gradual condensations and thickenings of the mucous mem- brane, which becomes gradually less elastic, and by proliferation form bands in the cavity. These by their physical qualities as well as by their interference with the swinging faculty of the sound-conducting apparatus materially interfere with the hearing capabilities. This chronic form, once established, is most obstinate to treatment, and leads to increase of the deafness, which depends more ou the locality