FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 269 The back should be kept very clean and dry and occasionally sponged with spirit lotion. It should also be protected further by leather strapping, felt plaster, and by cushions of air or water. When retention of urine complicates the case, the utmost caution is required in passing the catheter. An elastic instrument should be preferred and of a large size, the French vulcanite catheter being the best. The catheter should be kept scrupulously clean. FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE—WOUNDS AND SPRAINS. Fig In a nractical point of view, it is expedient to consider fractures and dislocations of the spine together. They are not, however, invariably combined, for although in four fifths of the injuries to the spinal column involving the bones some fracture is present, in the remaining one fifth simple dislocation exists. The majority of these cases of pure dislocation occurs in the cervical region; in the dorsal, such an accident is almost impossible, while in the lumbar it is very rare. The difference in the anatomical arrangement of these divisions of the column affords an explanation of these facts. To the practical surgeon these points are, however, of small importance; that which concerns him the most in any injury to the spine has reference to the cord—how much injury has it sustained ? Is it reparable or not ? When complete paralysis follows the injury there is little doubt that the cord has been in- jured. It may be that it has been more or less completely crushed by displaced bone, or even divided. In less severe injuries, less se- vere symptoms show themselves. Injuries to the cervical region are of greater danger than those of the dorsal, and these again are of more importance than those of the lumbar. The nearer the injury is to the respiratory centre, the greater the danger. Any crushing of the cord above the third cervical vertebra, is, as a rule, followed by instant death; this point being above the origin of the chief re- spiratory nerve, the phrenic. In cases of injury to the cervical vertebra giving rise to any symptoms of paralysis, death generally takes place within three days, and commonly within two. Thus, out of 36 fatal cases ex- tracted for me by Mr. Rendle from the Guy’s Records, 25 died in less than seventy-two hours, and 20 in less than forty-eight; 8 only survived the former period, and in those there were no symptoms of paralysis as an immediate result of the accident. Eleven of the 36 were cases of pure dislocation, 25 were examples of fracture and dislocation com- bined, and all were below the third cervical vertebra. In every case, Dislocation of the spine. Guy’s Hosp. Mus., No. 1038. Fractures and dislocations to be considered together. Injury of the cord the main point. Symptoms, &c., vary according to region.