598 INJURIES OP THE ABDOMEN. Contusiuu. General remarks on the abdomen. Diagnosis of the effects of contusion difficult. into the oesophagus helow the wound, care being taken during its intro- duction to keep the point against the opposite wall. Convalescence, as rule, goes on steadily. I have been fortunate enough to see the opera- tion successfully performed twice by my colleague, Mr. Cock, and the facility with which it was done has given me a very favorable opinion of its value. (‘Guy’s Eep.,’ 1858, 1867.) CHAPTER XIV. INJUEIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Contusions and Eupture of the Viscera. Injuries of the abdomen like those of the cranium, derive their principal importance from the nature of the cavity’s contents. The integuments and muscles forming its parietes may be severely injured and results follow which are simply of local importance ; but when the peritoneal lining of the cavity is involved, or any of the viscera are in- jured, the case assumes a grave aspect. The presence of a wound is always an extra element of danger, and is to he measured by the extent and character of the visceral complication. On the other hand the gravest internal abdominal injuries may co- exist with the slightest external evidence of mischief. Under certain conditions, a trifling blow on the abdomen may give rise to symptoms of an alarming nature, though a severe one is recovered from without exciting more than a fear. “The absence of shock imme- diately succeeding a severe lesion may lull suspicion, as its presence may by simple contusion excite alarm.” Every abdominal injury, however trivial it may appear, must consequently be regarded with apprehension, and the utmost care observed in its treatment. This can be easily accounted for, Poland says (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1858), “ when we consider the numerous and vital structures contained in the abdomen: a serous membrane highly prone to inflammationj the ‘peritoneum,’ occupying an extensive amount of surface ; a lengthy coil of organised tubing, ‘ the stomach and intestines;’ solid substances, made up chiefly of blood-vessels, &c.; the liver, spleen, and kidneys readily lacerable and liable to rupture, causing nearlys always fatal hsemorrhage; receptacles for fluid, ‘ the gall and urine bladders,’ which, under distension and undue force, may burst; large vessels coursing along the posterior wall, ‘ the aorta, vena cava,’ &c.; and lastly, above all, the sympathetic nerves, consisting of the solar plexus and its numerous satellite plexuses and branches of such high organic importance, that injury or shock thereto may be attended with irreparable results. All these struc- tures are, moreover, enclosed with soft elastic parietes, capable of great distension, which although readily able to resist shock and external violence without injury to themselves, yet may allow the force to be transmitted and expended on tbe contents with dire effect, and yet without leaving a trace or mark in the exterior.” In forming a diagnosis in this class of cases exclusion is the only sound method, every possible complication should be entertained and dismissed only when the weight of evidence is against it, the ultimate conclusion being founded as much on negative as on positive evidence. “ I am unacquainted,” writes Le Gros Clark (‘ Surgical Diagnosis,