ADMINISTKATIOl^ OF FOOD AKD MEDICINE BY RECTUM. 727 The Administration of Food and Medicine by the Rectum. Pliysiologists have long known that water, certain forms of food, and A.bsorption medicines are absorbed by the rectum, and physicians have acted upon rectum, this knowledge; though possibly the physiological fact has not been utilised so fully as it deserves. It has, however, such an important bearing for good upon surgical practice, that it would be well to regard the rectum as a second stomach, and; in certain cases, to use the one for nutritive or medicinal purposes as a substitute or accessory for the other. I have for years acted upon this principle, and have every reason to be satisfied with the result. Indeed, in any case of disease or injury in which nutriment is essential. Nutrient and the stomach refuses to receive or retain food, I have never hesitated enemata. to resort to the nutrient enema. I do so also in cases of abdominal injury or disease, in which it is inexpedient to give the stomach or small intestines work to do. In aged patients after injury or operation, when, from shock, the stomach seems incapable of doing its duty, as well as in all cases of persistent vomit- ing, whether after the use of anaesthetics or otherwise, to give time for the stomach to regain its tone. The use of the nutrient enema for a few hours often tides over a slight, and for days, over a great difficulty, as without doubt it supplies food to the body almost as well as the usual meal, and does so under circumstances in which the latter cannot or ought not to be administered. In a case I hud with Dr. Parsons Smith, of Addiscombe, life was entirely maintained for fif- teen weeks by its use; and I could adduce others in which its beneficial influence was most marked. Dr. Flint, of New York, has published one case in which life was sustained for fifteen months by this method, and he adds, that during five years, the patient had depended almost entirely upon it. In cases of unconsciousness from anaesthetics or otherwise, this practice should be followed in pi-eference to any other, as it seems more than probable that, under these circumstances, any fluid which it is attempted to pour into the mouth passes into the lungs rather than into the oesophagus, and consequently hastens death. Directions for use. The bowels should be emptied by a simple enema before the nutrient Rules for one is introduced. gmdance. The nutrient enema should be used every four or six hours, and should not consist of more than six ounces. The material should be tepid, and introduced sloioly, as the rectum repudiates any sudden distension. After its adminstration, a napkin should be pressed against the anus until the disposition to expel it has passed away. When the expulsion tendency is great, opium may be added to the enema ; indeed, under all circumstances, it is of advantage. At times, the enema is retained better when introduced some six inches into the rectum than within the sphincters. When injections are badly tolerated at first they may at times be well retained if they are persisted in. The best materials for these enemata are—milk, eggs, meat juices with pancreas or pancreatic emulsion, and these may be employed at different times. It is a mistake to keep too long to one kind.