450 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. Effpcts nf compress. ITow to remove compress. skin, one about a quarter of an inch and the other three quarters of an ineh from the edge of the wound, on whichever side of it may seem most convenient, hut both oti ths sctififis side (Pig. 134^. drawing them tlirough together, the wire forms a loop over the artery and the interven- ing tissues, and the needles are then detached from the wire. The half of a vial-cork, flat side downwards, is now placed on the skin between the ends of the protruding wire, and firmly pressed down hy the fingers of an assistant in the exact line of the artery, the wire being at the same time drawn tightly upwards and sharply twisted over the cork, tilUhe current through the artery is efi’ectually stopped and the pul- sation of the aneurism ceases. It is of great importance that the position of the cork should he longitudinally over the course of the artery so that the hlood-eurrent is checked as much hy the downward pressure of the cork as hy the upward tension of the wire, the inter- vening tissues formina: a firm compressed pad. The superfluous ends of wire are then cut off, and the wound closed and dressed according to the predilections of the surgeon. When the depression of anmsthesia goes off and the circulation revives, it will be found, that & feeble pulsation returns in the aneu- rism. This, according to the author (who strongly advocates the gradual rather than the rapid method of producing coagulation in the sac), should he allowed to go on for two or even three days, when the wire is to be tightened in the following manner:— The cork being firmly pressed down over the artery, the wire is drawn upwards by gentle traction on its twisted ends, and two or three small wooden wedges are pushed in by an assistant between the cork and the wire, so that sufficient tension is caused to entirely stop all pulsation in the aneurism. If the wire has been sufficiently drawn tightly at first, very small wedges are required, such as two or three bits of a lucifer match, for instance. The wire is on no account to be twisted afresh, lest it break. Meanwhile, by the action of the two or three days’ feeble current the sac has been prepared, as it were, for the coagulation of sudden soft clot which is now formed, whilst the col- lateral circulation has also by the same means been encouraged, the result being that in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, consolida- tion is perfect; thus about the fifth or sixth day the cure is com- plete, and the compress may be removed, which is thus done:—Un- twist the wire and remove the cork; separate widely the two ends of the wire to lessen the curve as much as possible; clip off one end close to the skin; make gentle pressure with one finger where the cork has been, and by steady traction on the other end of the wire it is readily withdrawn. If it should seem to adhere, leave it till next day, when it must have become loosened in the tissues, and be easily removable. The advantages of this method are thus summarised by Mr. Dix: I. The wire does not cause ulceration or any damage to the coats of the artery, either external or internal, therefore the blood channel being unopened, bleeding, one of the chief dangers of the old operation, is impossible. II. By causing at first a retarded circulation and a diminished current, it most accurately imitates the natural cure of iuieurisni, and by allowing time for the establishment of the collateral circulation, the risk of gangrene, the second great danger of the ligature, is very much diminished.