500 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. Vnrix; varicose veins. Definition. Examples. Description of the disease. Gay’s remarks. of other veins. Gay has also described a dissection of a varix which “ appears to have been occasioned by disease, originally atheromatous, followed by softening and ulceration of the inner and middle tunics of the vessel ; ” and Mr. Pick, of St. George’s Hosp. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ 1867), has given a somewhat similar example. How far, however, this atheromatous and calcareous degeneration is a distinct disease, or, an “after change in some local deposit of fibrin,” is an open question. Varix; Varicose Disease of the Veins and Phlebolithes. The term “ varicose vein ” is unfortunate, as it is applied to any enlarged tortuous vessel, to such as have been already described as hypertrophied veins, and to others that are clearly due to some diseased action resulting in hypertrophy with dilatation. In the sequel the term will be confined to the latter condition. Varixis commonly an affec- tion of the veins in the lower extremities, and mainly, of the branches of the saphena vein. When it involves the submucous vein of the rectum it is called a haemorrhoid, and, when of the spermatic a varicocele. But “ all the veins of the body may become varicose,” said M. Briquet in 1824. In 1869, a child, aet. 4, was brought to me with a sacculated varix the size of a nut connected with a vein on the outer side of : the right forearm : it had been coming on for a year and a half. Taking varix of the lower extremity as a type of the affection, it appears as a disease involving one or more, and in extreme cases ■ all, of the branches of the saphena vein. In most instances it is ■ confined to the larger trunks, and rarely spreads to the smaller: tributaries. In some, however, the affection appears to begin in the capillaries of: the skin, and spread towards the larger trunks, and such cases are most common in women. They appear as “ clusters of diseased, venous radicles ” (Gay), and rarely involve other than the smaller - branches. It must not he thought, however, that this affection is one of the < superficial veins alone, for such is not the case. Boyer asserted this - many years ago, and on his authority, the opinion has been accepted.. Verneuil corrected the error, and, in the ‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire ct Medicale,’ 1855, showed, that varix is as often a disease of the deep veins as of the subcutaneous—the latter often indicating the existence of the former. He believed, moreover, that the intramuscular veins ■ are sometimes affected without the subcutaneous. Hilton and more re- cently Callender has told us, that the varix of a subcutaneous vein is found wherever the intramuscular veins pass into the subcutaneous, men- tioning that “ the valves obstruct below, and the column of obstructed, slow-moving blood resists above.” He has failed, however, to confirm Verneuil’s remarks, that varix of the intramuscular branches is constant. Mr. Gay, an able author on varicose veins (1868), says, after many dissections, that “with superficial varicosity there are other serious lesions affecting both arteries and veins, deep and superficial, such as would lead to the conclusion that the general circulation has been subject to a very considerable and long-standing embarrass- | ment, some incompetency of the arterial system or impediment to the venous, or both combined;” and these conclusions are probably 'I correct.