INJURIES OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 697 In exceptional instances the deformity seems to cause no incon- venience. Ricord has recorded one (‘Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1863) in which the woman was married and her husband was quite unconscious that anything abnormal about the parts existed. Le Fort has recorded a second in which the woman was married, and had had three children, the malformation having been accidentally discovered in an examination for some suspected disease of the bowel. “ In such cases as these,” adds Holmes, “ the termination of the rectum in the vagina must be tolerably free, and there must either be an external sphincter or the internal sphincter must be hyper- trophied.” When the hoioel empties itself into the Madder or urethra, the case Where the is very hopeless, though the prospects of a successful issue are better under the latter than the former conditions. An exploratory opera- bladder or tion in the region of the anus may, however, he made with the usual urethra, caution, in the hope of reaching the intestine, and, on its failure Littre’s operation should be performed. Mr. Curling has related a successful case of this operation in a boy, eight years of age, who had a good anus in the groin, yet suffered from the occasional passage of fiEces into the urinary passages. By way of summary the following conclusions may he given: Summary. 1. In all cases, with some rare exceptions, of imperforate anus, obstructed rectum, or misplaced anus, an exploratory operation in the normal anal position ought to be made, success following the attempt in nearly half such cases. 2. Such exploratory operations, however, to be successful, should he undertaken early, and conducted with great caution—the line of puncture or incision being upwards and backwards towards the sacrum. 3. When these means fail, or are inapplicable, the intestine must he opened in the groin, it being still an open question whether the right or left side ought to be selected, though the latter is the usual one. 4. When an artificial anus has been made, its constant dilatation is a necessity. I'or further information on this subject refer to Curling’s paper, * Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xliii, and French edition of Holmes’s ‘ Surgical Diseases of Children,’ by Dr. Larcher. Bodenhiimer, Wm., ‘ Ou Malformations,’ Wood, New York, 1860. Ashton, ‘OnRectum,’ 3rd ed., 1860. Injuries of the Rectum. The anal orifice and lower part of the rectum may he wounded by Injuries of accident from falls, or by design, and, when this occurs, haemorrhage is a common result. Repair, however, rapidly goes on in these regions, and with the arrest of bleedmg by either securing the divided artery or by pressure, and water dressing, a good result may he anticipated. In 1876, a severe example of this kind came under my care at Example. Guy’s Hospital, in a hoy rot 12, who was impaled upon a rail, the iron spike entering the pelvis on the inner side of the right tuberosity of the ischium, perforating the rectum about two inches up, and lace- rating the anterior wall of the rectum and base of the bladder. The injury was followed by collapse and attended with hromorrhage. I saw him directly after the accident and made a free incision into his bladder as for lithotomy, in order to secure a free passage for the