STRICTURE OP THE RECTUM. 724 Linear rectciiomy. Euemata. Caution in use of enema tubes. Question of allowing patient to pass tube. Colotomy, when necessary. Value of operation. ture can be dilated in a painless and less dangerous way. When it does not produce any irritation, a second and larger, may be passed in two days, but when irritation is set up, the repetition of the operation should be postponed till it has subsided. By these means a simple stricture may be checked in its progress, and even dilated, though rarely cured. This practice may, however, prolong life for years. Mr. Curling gives a case in which he believes he cured an annular stric- ture in a lady, set. 24, by incisions and dilatation. I cannot, however, say that I have met with similar success. M. Verneuil, in the ‘Gazette Medicale de Paris ’for January, 1873, has advocated the operation of “ linear rectotomy ” for the cure of stricture, meaning by this operation an incision through the stric- ture and entire thickness of the bowel downwards and through the anus, including the sphincter, in the median dorsal line. He adduces two cases in which he performed this operation, and apparently with benefit. Dr. P. Lente, of New York, has also advocated a like practice (‘American Journ. of Med. Sciences,’July, 1873), adopting, however, an anterior as well as posterior incision in noii-malignant strictures. This dilatation, however, is only a means to an end, and that end is to secure an opening for the passage of the mtestinal contents. Enemata are valuable aids to effect this purpose, the daily washing out of the bowel with gruel and oil or the daily dose of mist, olei with manna, confection of senna with sulphur, or any other gentle laxative that the patient by experience has found to suit, giving great relief Cod-liver oil in full doses often acts as a laxative as well as a tonic. Care, too, should be observed in the introduction of the tube, for iu a cancerous bow’el perforation is very liable to occur, and even in a healthy one this accident has taken place, the Guy’s Museum containing a Prep. (1877*’“), in which the colon was perforated by a bougie thirteen inches from the anus for an imaginary stricture, and a second (1877'’®), in which an O’Beirne’s tube perforated the rectum five inches from the anus in an attempt to pass it up the healthy bowel to give relief in a case of obstruction after the reduction of a hernia. How far it is safe to allow a patient to pass a bougie for himself or herself is another question. I am disposed to think it is unwise to allow it when the bougie is solid, having seen great irritation and conse- quently harm follow the practice, and in several cases, deep-seated sup- puration. Curling has given a case where the patient caused his own death by perforating the bowel half an inch in e.xtent above the stricture. I have consequently been in the habit of mstructing my patients to use tallow candles as bougies, and have been satisfied with the practice. There comes a time, however, when this treatment by dilatation ceases to be beneficial or is associated with so much distress as to forbid its use; as when the stricture has so closed as to render it useless; or so ulcerated as to render it unwise to adopt the practice. Under these circumstances the question of excision of this disease or the operation of Colotomy may be considered. The former operation will be discussed later on. The latter gives comfort to a degree that sometimes astonishes and always gratifies; it prolongs life, and adds materially to its comfort, and little more than this can be said of most opera- tions ; moreover it is not found to be practically associated with such