177 AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. given and the foot become flat. Too short hoots greatly favour this change, the foot hy such being compressed longitudinally, and the arch of the tarsus increased; the toes even being drawn up to form angles with the metatarsal bones—the great toe suffering the most. When hursm form over the projecting bones, it is to save the joints from injury, and at times these form over the dorsum itself. Under extreme conditions the bursa may inflame and suppurate, giving rise to obsti- nate and troublesome sores. In still more extreme or neglected cases the joint of the great toe may be involved, ending in its destruction with or without exfoliation of bone. Teeatmbnt.—When the nature of a bunion is understood, the prin- Treatment ciples of its treatment become clear. Preventive treatment is the best, of buuiou. and consists in maintaining the natural condition of the foot; in Preventive, young children, and in girls especially, hy guarding against the flat- tening of the foot from over-standing or walking during the period of gi'owth, and against altering the axis of the great toe by keeping the inner line of the hoot straight; and in no way hy too short boots cramping the foot longitudinally. When a bunion exists the only consistent treatment is that which Restore tends to restore the misplaced toes to their natural position ; when the natural great toe is involved, either by Key’s plan of having a separate com- partment made in the hoot, so constructed as to keep it in a straight line with the foot, or by the simple apparatus given in Sayre’s work on orthopmdic surgery (Fig. 51), which consists of buckskin or linen caps to the toe a, a few inches of elastic webbing b, a piece of adhesive plaster to go round the foot c, and two circular pieces of the same d to retain all in position. Even in severe cases this practice may be successful, and in the old and confirmed cases the same is to be adopted; palliative treatment, however, is at times alone practicable. The common plan, wrote Key in 1836 (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Kep.’), “ re- sorted to for the relief of bunion palliates the evil, in some degree, by removing the pain, and taking off the pressure; but it does not go to the root of the evil. The plasters on thick soft leather are agreeable to a painful bunion by keeping the skin in a pliant state, and by protect- ing the part from pressure; ” hut they do not cure the disease. Under all circumstances, pressure is to be removed; nothing like a Removal of tight boot ought to he thought of, a wide and easy one being worn. To pressure, the inflamed bunion water-dressing is the best application. Should suppuration take place, an early incision into the bursa should be made. In old people, however, some caution is called for in carrying out this practice, because in such, where from diseased arteries or other causes the circulation is feeble, gangrene of the part or a troublesome suppura- tion may arise. When suppurating sores exist, they may in the aged require stimulating applications; in the middle-aged, the bursa may he laid open and allowed to granulate, or he excised. In the early stage of a bunion the mechanical means suggested may be aided hy the local application of a small blister, and Mr. Thomas Smith speaks highly of the local use of the hiniodide of mercury, ten grains to an ounce. (‘ Holmes’ Syst.,’ vol. v, ed. 2nd.) In the last stage, when the joint is destroyed, the case may have to be treated hy incision of the parts, excision or even amputation. In-grown toe-nail. This is a troublesome and painful affection, and is more commonly met On in-grown VOL. I. 12 loe-uaii.