33 LUPUS. The Syphilitic Superficial Sore.—The deep cellulo-membranous syphilitic sore has been already described (page 27), under the Leading of constitutional sores, but the superficial, cutaneous, rupial syphi- litic sore deserves notice, because it is very common. It mostly succeeds ' an ecthyma or rupia, is mixed with the eruption in some other stages, and is simply an ulceration of the base of a syphilitic eruption. This i goes on increasing irregularly in a serpiginous form, the sore healing in one place and spreading in another; but it involves only the skin. The edges of the sore, or sores—for they are of Den numerous—are usually well defined, and frequently irregular; the surface too is generally of a deep colour; and, when healing, may either scab or granulate, as any other sore. They are met with at any period after the first con- Period of stitutional symptoms of syphilis have passed away, and occasionally appearance. at a remote date; they are always found in a cachectic or enfeebled subject; indeed, it appears as if want of power allowed the disease to manifest itself in the new form. The treatment of these sores, when once recognised, is not usually Treatment of difllcult. Tonics, with the iodide of potassium or sodium, in doses of membranmis from three to ten grains, usually effect a cure, at least for a time; liquor ulcer, cinchonte and compound spirit of ammonia in half-drachm doses are also good remedies. In other cases quinine or iron is indicated. Mercurial remedies are sometimes, though rarely, necessary; perchloride of mercury, in doses of -^th of a grain in bark, green iodide in one-grain doses in a pill, or the mercurial suppository, being the best forms to employ. Locally, the sores may be dressed with any simple dressing, but when indolent, a mercurial lotion, as th« black wash, is the best. Lupus must be classed amongst the ulcers. It is met with in two on lupus, forms—the lupus erythematosus and the lupus vulgaris—the latter being more common in young scrofulous subjects, and the former in Varieties, the middle-aged. When associated with a spreading ulceration, it has been called luptis exedens. The “lupus erythematosus” occurs chiefly upon the face, and is symmetrical; each patch has well-defined edges, and a red, scaly sur- face, with small horny points upon it, due to accumulation in the dilated mouths of sebaceous ducts. The “ lupus vulgaris ” has its origin in a skin tubercle, or tuber- cles, of a flat form, fleshy consistence, and pink shining appear- ance, and these at times ulcerate. This lupus ulceration when Characters of once originated, progresses steadily, destroying every tissue it attacks, l“Pua and when it reaches the nose—its very favorite seat—it simulates can- cer. The surface of the sore is sometimes free from all signs of granu- lations, and often very irregular, while the edges are ragged, raised, and often everted. It is painless. The tubercles themselves feel spongy, are not so hard as cancer, nor so well defined. These lupus ulcers are more commonly found on the face than else- where, and probably next in frequency, on the female genitals. They are most destructive when left alone, but often very amenable to treatment. In young adult life they are more common than in the old, and appear closely allied to tuberculosis. Treatment.—Although the disease has probably a constitutional Treatment of [, origin, and requires tonic treatment, both by medicine and regimen, ulcers, there is no disease that derives more benefit from local treatment! 3