CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN AND ITS EFFECTS. 213 spasms of the limbs; intense restlessness, with constant rolling and tossing about in bed; unconsciousness, more or less complete; drowsiness, without any stertorous breathing, and in the slighter cases simply contraction of one pupil or of one eyelid; spasmodic move- ments about some one muscle or another of the face or lips, giving rise to a difficulty of pronunciation ” (Hewett). Mr. Le Gros Clark lays Le Gros stress upon the followingMore or less constant restlessness, accompanied by spasm, in which some particular member is affected, marks, or amounting to general convulsion. If capable of giving expression to his feelings, the patient will point to some particular part of the head as the seat of pain. In some instances noisy incoherency and obtuseness of intellect accompany this condition from the first; ” and these symptoms are doubtless enough to point to contusion of the brain. When they appear rapidly after the accident, they may be accepted as reliable; but when they come on a few days later they are as likely to be due to secondary inflammation of the brain as to contusion. Nevertheless, they may be regarded as valuable diagnostic indications of a bruised brain until better can be adduced. The diagnosis of primary concussion and contusion of the brain. Diagnosis of however, is almost impossible. The symptoms are so intermixed that the real nature of the lesion is not apparent. “ The symptoms of concussion may be continued or renewed either by extravasation of concussion, blood, pus or both” (John Hunter, MS., 1787). The signs attributed to concussion, such as loss of consciousness, collapse, small, scarcely perceptible pulse and lowered temperature, are met with in other affections of the brain, and merely indicate that the functions of that organ, and their influence on the system at large, are in a state of abeyance. It can, therefore, only be declared that the brain was con- tused in the first instance, if the symptoms continue. The seat of injury to the brain may likewise often be indicated by Seat of injury some paralysis, partial or complete, of one or more of the cerebral indicated by nerves. Tliis paralysis may be either a passing or a permanent symptom. ^ Paralysis of the seventh pair including the facial nerve, has been already alluded to as a somewhat typical symptom of fracture through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This may appear as an immediate result of the injury, indicating laceration of the brain by the fracture; or, what is more usual, at a later date, when it may be the effect of pressure by effused blood upon the nerve trunk in some part of its course; or, at a still later period, by inflammatory effusion. On referring to my own notes of cases admitted into Guy’s Hospital at different periods during the last twenty years, I find examples of injury to the optic nerves, as indicated by blindness; injury to the paralysis of the muscles of the globe of the eye as a whole; and cerebral paralysis of the external rectus muscle alone. Paralysis of the facial and auditory nerves is very frequent, and at times there is paralysis of the fifth nerve, as indicated by complete loss of sensation of the face, &c. Paralysis of the hypoglossal has also been observed. In the majority of these cases the symptoms appeared as a direct result of the injury ; in some they came on two or three days later, associated with febrile symptoms; but in most they disappeared in the course of a few weeks. In some instances, however, of facial paralysis the symptoms were permanent. In all these there must have been injury to the base of the brain. “ The coexistence of hemiplegia on one side,