CAKCER OF THE LIPS. 513 ; dealt with on its own merits. But this much may he said, that no part I of the body heals so rapidly or so well as the face, and in none are j plastic operations more satisfactory. j Cancer of the Lips. This term is generally applied to epithelioma or cancroid disease. Cancer of lip. true cancer or carcinoma being very rare. It is a disease of middle Period of life life, four out of five cases attacking patients between forty and sixty years of age. The youngest subject I have seen affected by it was a sweep set. 27, and the oldest also a sweep set. 86. It affects the lower lip more frequently than the upper in the proportion of 25 to 1, and men more than women. In my own table of fifty-four con- { secutive cases, three instances of the latter exist, to fifty-one of the former. Smoking, or rather the irritation of a pipe, has generally been Causes, ascribed as a common cause, and it is probable that such an irritation I is sufficient to set up the disease when a predisposition to its develop- ment already exists. It is interesting to note, however, that in fifty- four consecutive cases in which I made the inquiry nine, had never smoked, and this proportion is probably, in this country, about that of the non-smokers amongst the male population. The disease generally commences as a dry scab on the red margin of Origin and the lip; and it may be that this scab forms over a crack or excoriation, progress, but as often as not it appears alone; occasionally too it commences as a wart. In its early stage the progress of the disease is generally very slow, and only when some ulcerative action appears does it develop more rapidly. It is under these circumstances that the patient first applies for advice, in the dry stage, the disease is passed by unheeded. The appearance of an epithelial cancer is tolerably characteristic (Pig. 186); it has generally an irregular i warty aspect, but, when ulcerating, has i thickened everted edges. It has always • a well-defined indurated base. When ulcerating, it discharges a sanious pus containing epithelium scales in abund- ance, and when dry, it is covered with a scab of the same material. Micro- scopically it contains epithelial elements arranged in capsules. ( Vide Fig. 32.) In its early stage it seems to be a local disease and rarely affecting more i than one part at the same time. I have, 9 however, seen several cases in which two 6 separate centres existed, and one in 9 which there were three. In the latter,two « growths on the lower lips were excised, and nine years subsequently a a similar disease attacked the tongue, which I removed in June, 1870, c with the galvanic cautery ecraseur. ^ When the ulceration stage has set in, if the disease be left to run its flcourse, the glands beneath the jaw will probably soon become affected. •9 Indeed, under these circumstances, the progress of the affection will be 1 steady, if not rapid, and goes on to destroy all the tissues with which t( it comes in contact—integument, gums, bone, teeth, and glands. It ) VOL. I. 33 Fio. 186. Appearance of an epitlielial cancer. Multiple cancers. Cancer of lip in John C—, set. 54. From drawing. Enlarged glands.