636 COLOTOMY. Statistics of the operation. for vesico-intostiual fistula, in two for pelvic tumour, in one for fibrous growths in the rectum, and in twenty-nine for stricture of the rectum. One of the cases of vesico-intestinal fistula lived for four months after the operation, and died with suppurating kidneys entirely relieved from all vesical and rectal distress. (‘ Brit, and For. Rev.,’ Jan., 1869.) One lived nearly six years after the operation, and died, set. 70, from rupture of the heart. The third is now alive, six years after the operation, and enjoying life, suffering indeed very little inconvenience from the artificial anus. (‘Clin. Soc.,’ 1872.) The patient with pelvic tumour, already noticed, died on the third day from rupture of the tumour. The second was kept alive two months, and died from the disease. The one with fibrous growths in the rectum was operated upon Nov. 14th, 1877, and is now living in comfort. Of the twenty-nine patients with stricture, cancerous and otherwise, one lived three years after the operation, and one eighteen months, dying from supposed cancer of the liver after a month’s illness j two lived ten and three for five months, eight survived the operation from seven to eighteen days, eight died within a week, the operation in the majority of these cases having been undertaken as a last resource. Six were alive when last heard of, twO having been operated upon three years previously, two two years, and two within the year. In every case marked relief was afforded to symptoms, and in many, the patients’ expressions of gratitude for such were very strong, several having deeply regretted that the operation had not been performed at an earlier period. . In no single case have I ever regretted performing this operation, although in a large number 1 have wished earnestly that I had had an opportunity of performing it earlier, since in no instance where it was undertaken did it fail to give relief. In one of the patients colotomized for vesico-intestinal fistula, who is now alive, six years after the operation, urine finds its way, when he is recnmbent, out of the lumbar artificial anus, and, in the second case that survived the operation nearly six years, the same com- plication presented itself. In neither instance, however, was the flow a source of trouble. This flow, however, might have been enough to keep patent that portion of the intestine that existed between the artificial anus and the bladder, and to preserve it from atrophy ; such a result of colotomy being clearly possible. Dr. Michael Harris, of Liverpool, having recorded in the ‘ Liverpool Hospital Reports ’ for 1874 the particulars of a post-mortem examination where Mr. Hakes had performed colotomy five years previously for vesico-iutes- tinal fistula, in which the descending colon from the artificial anus, together with the sigmoid flexure and rectum as far as the bladder, had become complet^y obliterated and was found to be replaced by a cylindrical mass of fat. The length of this fatty column was about six or seven niches, and in the centre of it was found a fibrous cord of about a line in thickness, but no trace of a canal of any kind could be therein detected. Curling has performed or recommended the operation in twenty-one cases, and in fourteen the patients survived over periods varying from two to eighteen months. Pollock gives a case where the patient had survived the operation for two and half years. Allingham has had ten cases: one died within a fortnight of the operation, five lived a