309 OPHTHALMIA. they are of greater calibre about the fornix, and taper off towards the cornea. The inflamed sclerotic or episcleral tissue is pinkish or bluish in colour; the vessels are small and straight, and the vascularity is usually most marked in a ring around the eyeball, just external to the corneal margin. 2. The vessels of the conjunctiva can be somewhat displaced, and made to glide over the surface of the eyeball by gentle pressure; those situated in deeper parts cannot be made to alter their positions. 3. The pain in inflammation of the conjunctiva is of a smarting character; while in inflammations of deeper parts it is dull and aching, and often very severe. Teeatment.—Inflammations of the conjunctiva are best treated by Treatment, astringent applications. Any of the following formula} may be employed : Strong Alum Lotion. Astringent Alum, gr. X ; water, gj. applications. Useful in cases of purulent ophthalmia. Alum Lotion. Alum, grs. iv to vj ; Water, 5j- Sulphate of Copper Drops. Sulphate of copper, gr. ij; Water, 5j- Sulphate of Zinc Drops. Sulphate of zinc, gr. ij; Water, 3j. Nitrate of Silver Drops. Nitrate of silver, gr. j; Water, 5j. Chloride of Zinc Drops. Chloride of zinc, gr. ij ; Water, gj. Most useful in cases of chronic ophthalmia. Atropine and Astringent Solution. Sulphate of atropia, gr. i to gr. ij ; Sulphate or chloride of zinc, gr. ij ; Water, §j. Useful in cases where iritis or corneitis occurs in the course of ophthalmia. Any of these remedies may be given to the patient to use himself; they should be applied from three to six times a day, or oftener, and the patient should be directed to wash away all discharge before using any of them, and to take care that the lotion goes well between the lids. Some kind of ointment (spermaceti, mild nitrate of mercury, &c.) should also be ordered to be smeared on the margins of the lids at night, to prevent their becoming gummed together during sleep. The condition ot the patient’s general health should also be attended to. Other applications, which should be used by the surgeon himself are— The mitigated nitrate of silver stick (consisting of nitrate of potash \i't' and nitrate of silver, in the proportion of three parts of the former to ^tratfof one of the^ latter).— Green stone—lapis divitius (consisting of equal parts of alum, nitrate of potash, and sulphate of copper, with a small