437 ANEURISM. I Murchison, Semple, and myself. Similar cases may also be found in various medical publications, vide ‘ Bright’s Medical Reports,’ I vol. ii, p. 266; Gull, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 3rd series, vol. v, p. 299; I Ponfick, ‘ Vircb. Archives,’ Bd. 58,1873. See also Wilks and Moxon, ' ‘ Path. Anat.,’ p. 158-9 ; Holmes, ‘ Syst. Surg.,’ &c. ' Various explanations have been given of the occurrence of aneurism ii under such conditions. It has been maintained by some that the plug ! leads to sudden obstruction and afterwards to dilatation of the vessel 1 behind it. But a look at preparations of such aneurisms shows, that ) the dilatation is not behind the embolus, but actually at the plugged t spot. Moreover, if the local obstruction leads to dilatation behind it, < we ought to find aneurism a more common result of ligature than is I the fact; we ought to find it more frequently after embolism than we ( do, because embolism is a very common aflectiou in one part or another i of the body. Other ingenious, though somewhat laboured, explana- i tions have been offered, which need not be mentioned here, and ( the only one of any importance is that recently ably argued by j Dr. Goodhart, attributing the aneurism to a local arteritis, which in I its turn has been caused by the embolism. It has been already i asserted that when an artery becomes blocked, the clot, unless it softens and breaks down, becomes adherent to the wall, and subse- t quently the lumen of the vessels is traversed by vascular tissue. If this !is true, and that it is, is allowed by nearly all observers, then there must have been some preceding inflammation of the wall of the vessel to allow of this new formation of capillaries. It is no new fact, there- i fore, that embolism causes a local arteritis, since it follows from what • has already been determined. We have only to explain how it is that when embolism causes a local inflammation of arteries in all cases, an I) aneurism is so rai-e a result. The explanation is to be found in i an examination of the cases in which these are found. They are e{ almost without exception examples of ulcerative endocarditis—a I very severe inflammation locally, and attended usually with symptoms of M blood poisoning, supposed, and we think rightly so, to be due to the f septic nature of the emboli which are detached from the ulcer and carried to all parts of the body. Now, what must happen if such a G clot becomes lodged in some part of an artery ? In proportion to the « severity, or as we should say surgically, in proportion to the foulness of the ulceration, so will be the intensity of inflammation round the at embolism; in the more severe cases the rapid formation of an abscess ^and perhaps a false aneurism; in those somewhat less severe, acute } softening and cellular infiltration of the arterial coats, in which case a true aneurism is most likely to occur. In the majority of cases the embolism is not caused by septic clots, and therefore neither aneurism li nor abscess are the consequences. Progress and Natural Cure of Aneurism. When once formed an aneurism has a natural tendency to increase, ^the “ sacculated” more so than the “fusiform,” and the “ sacculated” '8 communicating by a small opening with the cavity of an artery, as a ' ,rule, runs its course more rapidly than another in which the opening is • free. The force of the circulation is more concentrated upon one point 'dof the aneurismal sac when directed through a small than through m large orifice, and more when directed through an orifice than when Aneurism from embolism. Embolism inducing local arteritis. Progress of aneurism.