170 CARBUNCLE. Treatment of carbuncle. Incision deprecated. Caustics preferred. Caution. Sub- cutaneous incision. Compression. cleaux,’ 1868) believes pysemia to be tbe most common cause of death in carbuncle. Rare cases have been recorded in which peritonitis was caused by the extension of the disease from the abdominal walls into the peritoneal cavity. When the treatment by incision is adopted, life is too often short- ened by loss of blood. As a general rule, however, carbuncle is not a fatal disease. Its danger depends much upon its extent, and more upon the complications with which it is associated. Treatment.—In former days the one form of local treatment that every surgeon followed was that of the crucial incision +, the knife being passed freely through the tissues to the base of the inflamma- tory effusion; the object of this was to give room for the slough to separate and come away. In modern times the value of this practice has been much questioned, for it was too often found to be followed by loss of blood, where blood was much needed; nor has it been thought that the incision did much to hasten the progress of the case or the separation of the slough. It is still, however, a popular form of practice. I was taught it, but after observing its effects have long given it up, believing that it did little or no good, and was often followed by a harmful hasmorrhage. The treatment I prefer, and have adopted for many years, has been that by caustic, and the more I see of it the better I like it. It has been strongly advocated in this country by Pritchard, and in America by Dr. Physic. It is applicable in the stage of the disease when the cellular tissue is brawny, and the early inflammation of the skin has subsided; it may be used before any openings in the skin are found, either as Pritchard advises, by rubbing the caustic potash freely in the centre of the car- buncle until an eschar is fully formed, or, which is preferable, by punc- turing with a scalpel, and inserting the stick or a small piece the size of a pea well into the diseased tissues. Wlien the carbuncle is large, many punctures may be made, one to every area of surface of the dimensions of half a crown. Where openings exist, the surgeon has only to insert the caustic and allow it melt, either in the stick, or, what is better, in pea- like masses, by means of dressing forceps, passing them well down into the subcutaneous tissue. By this practice the slough is certainly cast off more readily than when incisions are made or the case left to nature. No bleeding takes place, and very little pain is given except- ing at the time. With this treatment large carbuncles become soon healthy granulating wounds. The only care required is, to prevent the caustic running over the sound skin. During this treat- ment a poultice may be applied, or some lotion, such as Candy’s fluid, carbolic acid, or alcoholic lotion; a solution of opium applied to the part often gives relief to pain. Tonics, good living, and fresh air, are also essential. The French surgeons prefer the use of the Vienna paste. By these means, unless the carbuncle is associated with some serious malady, such as diabetes or pysemia, a good result may be looked for. The plan of making a subcutaneous incision has been ably advocated by Mr. French and M. Guerin, and that of compression by Messrs. O’Ferrall and M. H. Colles, of Dublin (‘ Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ 1864). The former plan I have tried, but have failed to find its advantage. The latter I have not employed, having been already well satisfied with the caustic treatment.