CTJRVATtTEE OP THE SPINE. 280 Termination in aucliylosis. Situation of the disease. Spinal abscess. Psoas abscess. Lumbar abscess. Gluteal abscess. Pharyngeal abscess. Guy’s Hosp. Mus. (1004.82) ifc would seem, that it may attack the foetus in utero, the bodies of three or four of the dorsal vertebrae in this case FiG. 84. Fig. gs. Angular curvature of the Angular curvature of the spine, the same spine. as that illustrated in the former figure, taken from a patient tet. 35. being clearly fused together from disease, thus giving rise to angular curvature. When a cure takes place, it is generally by anchylosis; occasionally, however, the parts are held together simply by fibrous tissue. The disease more commonly attacks the lower dorsal region of the spine than any other, although the cervical and lumbar regions are not seldom implicated. In rare cases, it attacks two different regions of the spine. It may run through its whole course even to a cure, with- out giving rise to any external suppuration; more commonly, however, an abscess makes its appearance. Spinal abscess.—Pus will sometimes find its way from the dorsal region beneath the fascia that covers in the psoas muscle under Poupart’s ligament, and then appear as a swelling in the groin at its inner half (psoas abscess). The swelling may bmTOw down- ward, and involve the whole thigh in one large abscess. W’hen the disease is in the lumbar region, pus may burrow between the dense layers of fascia that bind in the quadratus lumborum muscle, and appear in the front of the abdomen, above Ponpart’s ligament, or in the loin (lumbar abscess). In other cases, it will make its way under the fascia that covers in the iliacus muscle, and appear beneath Poupart’s ligament, but at its outer half. In other instances, again, the matter will find a passage downwards into the pelvis, and either make its way through the sciatic notch into the gluteal region (gluteal abscess), or pass downwards behind the trochanter major to the thigh. In still rarer cases the pus appears by the side of the rectum. When the cervical region is the seat of the disease suppuration may appear in the pharynx as u pharyngeal abscess, or externally in the neck behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The following case is a good example of this ;