54 ON TRAUMATIC FEVER. Symptoms of blood poisouiiig. Its charac- teristics. Internal and external pya;mia. Traumatic fever. severe. Surgical fever generally ends in recovery, pytemia after the formation of secondary abscesses, either in the viscera, joints or con- nective tissne, in death. One and all are ushered in by very similar general symptoms, and an outline of those met with in a typical example of inflammatory fever will be found in a former page; “ but practically the affection shows numberless grades and differences and complications. First, there are wide differences of degree and character, for in proportion as the local process is less acute and less extensive there is less attendant febrility; and in proportion as the local process has to invade fewer successive strata of texture, the fever is of shorter course. On the one hand, it may be so slight as readily to escape notice, and may end within a few hours of its commencement; on the other hand, it may last in full force during many successive days, and may be so severe as to shake the patient’s life to its foundation; and, besides these differences, there are varieties of result, sometimes from complicative local conditions, some- times from peculiar susceptibilities of the patient. If the wound become the seat of some large textural disorganization, with consequent soakage of putrefying material, more marked signs of hlood pollution may be expected to mix with or supersede those of common inflamma- tory fever; the patient’s general state will then incline to be one of depression and apathy j his tongue will be more than commonly foul, and foetid diarrhoea will probably exist; or if, perchance, during the local process it happen (as is especially apt to be the case where can-i cellous bone-structure is affected) that pus passes up a vein into the general stream of blood, the patient’s improvement is abruptly cut short by the severe recurrent rigors and sweating of pyaemia, accom- panied by local signs of secondary suppuration in parts to which the pus is conveyed.” (Simon.) Confirmed blood-poisoning, therefore, is characterised not only by all the symptoms of inflammatory fever, but by severe rigors breaking in upon the febrile symptoms; by stidden and marked variations of temperature (vide fig. 6), by profuse sweats and great depression of the patient's powers ; and when these symptoms occur in the course of an attack of inflammatory fever, severe blood poisoning is certainly indicated; the gravity of the attack being measured by the intensity of the symptoms. We generally meet, moreover, in pyaemia with local signs of inflammation of some internal organ or external part of the body, and this inflammation runs on to the formation of metastatic of secondary abscesses as they are called. When an internal organ is involved in this disease the result as a rule is fatal. When suppura- tion attacks the integuments or extremities, although it may be severe, there is always some hope of recovery. It is an interesting clinical fact that these two different forms are rarely met with in the same subject. They may for clearness be separately called inter~ nal and external pysemia, or acute or chronic ; pymmia, when involving internal parts, being generally rapid in its course and fatal; and when attacking external parts, it is as a rule chronic; at times, however, the latter may supervene upon the former variety. In many cases of pysemia a peculiar sweet hay-like odour of the breath is undoubtedly present. Some authors, and _ Braidwood is amongst them, look upon this symptom as pathognomonic. Traumatic fever, when it occurs, generally makes its appearance from