404 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. I f I' i ■lii ji I of the Eustachian tube. The above method is the one usually adopted, but there is that proposed by Bonnefont, which consists in turning the beak of the catheter from the posterior pharyngeal wall outwards into Muller's depression, and drawing it then towards you till you feel that it has passed over a swelling and then fallen into a depression; or Luwenberg’s, consisting of turning the catheter beak inwards after reaching the post-pharyngeal wall, drawing it towards you till the curve catches on the posterior edge of nasal septum, and then revolving it npwards or downwards towards the lateral pharyngeal wall, when it will probably pass into tbe tube. If there is a difficulty in passing the catheter through the nasal cavity it is generally most easily overcome by keeping the beak towards the external wall and passing along it. Bnt should you fail in passing it through the nostril corresponding to the Eustachian tube, into which you desire to introduce it, by using a catheter with a longer curve you can reach the mouth of the Eusta- chian tube from the other nostril, or you may pass it into the tube from the mouth. You know that the nozzle has passed well into the mouth of the tube by the position of the catheter not being disturbed when the patient speaks or swallows, by the fact that the nozzle will not pass further upwards, and especially by the fact that on blowing air into the catheter, either by mouth or india-rubber bag, you recognise its passage into the tympanic cavity of the patient by having placed a tube of communication from his meatus to your own. In children the outward turn of the catheter is usually more limited in extent than in the adult, in whom it is generally from a fourth to three eighths j but a latitude must be allowed, as the formation of the part varies. In a new patient, if you wish to pass the catheter into the Eustachian tube, it is advisable to try the right side first, as it will be found usually easier to pass on that side on account of the septum gently inclining towards the left. The mistake generally made is that the catheter is not brought sufficiently forwards after having reached the posterior pha- ryngeal wall, so that the beak falls into the depression posterior to the opening of the tube. But this may be easily averted by attending to tbe directions above given as to feeling pressure of the curve on the back of the septum or soft palate before turning the beak outwards. Dr. Weber-Liel, of Berlin, has lately introduced a small elastic catheter for the purpose of securing the passage of injections directly Tympanic into, or the removal of accumulations from, the tympanic cavity. This catheter. is passed through the usual silver catheter as a director to the tube, and having thus, on its exit from the silver catheter, obtained a posi- tion in the tube, it is passed on with a little care through the tube and into the tympanic cavity. The injections passed through the catheter consist of preparations of potass, ammonia, iodine, mercury, silver, zinc, atropine, chloral, &c., in solution, care being taken that the fluid is lukewarm at the time of entrance. Injections The following solutions may be found usefulSulphate of zinc m passed into varying strengths from one to ten grains, of muriate of ammonia five tympanic twenty grains, of iodide of potassium ten to sixty grains, iodine th^raeh the one to five grains, chlorate of soda five grains, to the ounce of dis- Enstachian tilled water. Before using them always see that the tube is pervious catheter. and cleared of mucus or other removable obstruction to their entrance. They are probably most useful when employed every second or third