DKNTAL SUItGERY. 568 llalibit- moutli. Umlerliaiig- ing. Insufficient room for <mnine and wisdom teeth. Impaction of lower wisdom. Treatment. Misplace- ment. Impaction of teeth. aud the teeth will be loosened. Twisted teeth can he turned on their axes. Instauding upper front teeth can be trained out, and will be retained in their new positions as soon as they are brought to overlap the lower teeth; prominent and projecting upper teeth can be gradually trained in, but will be required to be kept in place for some time by mechanical means to prevent their reverting to their original position. The lower lip passing behind prominent upper incisors increases the deformity which is usually associated with a contracted arch. In regulating teeth much greater difficulty has to be overcome where contraction or malformation of the jaw causes the irregularity, than in those cases where there is simple misdirection of the teeth themselves. In some cases complete underhanging of the jaw is present, i. e. the upper teeth, back as well as front, are set within the arch of the lower teeth ; this condition does not admit of much remedy when once firmly established, but may be prevented to a certain extent by timely ex- traction of lower teeth together with a training out of the upper. The earlier that irregularities receive attention the better, in order that the mispl.acement may not be increased, and also because the moving of teeth can only be safely effected in the young. Canine and wisdom teeth, owing to the lateness of their eruption and the position they occupy during development, are peculiarly liable to be shut out from the dental arch. The canine being a durable tooth, should in some cases have room made for it by the extraction of one of the teeth that have closed in upon its site. The cutting of wisdom teeth is frequently attended with much trouble, and it may he remem- bered in the case of young subjects with small maxillae, whose first or second molars are much decayed, that the timely extraction of either of these teeth may allow the wisdom tooth (if developed) to erupt easily and occupy a useful position. In the upper jaw, if the wisdom is forced to take an outward direction, and so cause irritation of the cheek, it should be extracted. In the lower jaw, where there is insuflS- cient room for it between the second molar and the ascending ramus, its efforts to erupt often produce nerve irritation, chronic spasm of the masseter, the formation of pus between the crown of the tooth and the superjacent gum ; it may also cause absorption of the root of the second molar and lay bare its pulp. In all cases where the impaction of a lower wisdom tooth is a source of irritation, the impaction should be at once got rid of either by the extraction of the wisdom tooth or of the tooth in front. The operation required, as well as the serious results which may attend purulent in- flammation about an impacted wisdom tooth, will receive notice later. Teeth are sometimes erupted in strange positions; thus, Salter recorfs a case of inversion and eruption of lateral incisors in the nares, and Tomes figures the case of a molar erupted in the median line of the palate, and another case in which the crown of a molar pierced the cheek at the angle of the jaw. In another case, figured by Tomes, the crown of a molar presented at the sigmoid notch, but remained impacted. Impaction, or retention of a tooth within the maxillary bone often occurs without any ill results, but occasionally it is productive of severe mischief. Thus, in a case which occurred in the practice of Mr. Cartwright, sen. (aud which is reported at length by Mr. Salter), it