464 N^VUS. May degenerate. Pigmentary naevi. Their tendency to become the seat of cancers. Treatment. When interference called for. Caustics. Cautery. Excision. Fig. 141. Drawing of degenerating neevus. Guy’s Mus., 16t)5*,—Hilton’s case. and have a tendency towards early death. When they do not ulcerate or slough, they undergo degenerative changes, and the most characteristic is the cystic form (Fig. 141). When the skin undergoes this change, the surface becomes warty and vesicular, the vesicles containing more or less blood-stained serum. When the cel- lular tissue is the part involved, cysts will still appear of a like nature, but occasionally the whole growth passes into a mass of cysts of dif- ferent sizes bound together by fibrous tissue. This degenerative change is very typical. To account for the formation of these cysts is no easy matter, no satisfactory explanation indeed of their production has yet been given. Some naevi are pigmentary and are then termed moles. They are far less vascular than the forms already alluded to and have no tendency to spread. They grow, it is true, with the growth of the sub;ject, but as a rule in no greater proportion; in exceptional instances their in- crease is rapid. They do not appear to have a tendency to ulcerate, slough, or undergo the cystic degeneration like the vascular nsevi, but have a special tendency to become the seat of cancerous disease, and particularly of the melanotic form of cancer. That is, subjects who become the victims of cancer and have moles, are often attacked primarily in such structures, and, as the cancer originates in a pigmen- tary growth, it takes on its character and becomes melanotic. I have seen many such cases, and so many others have been now recorded as to place the question beyond doubt. Teeatment.—Unless a usevus is so situated as to be an eye- sore or an inconvenience, or unless it show a decided tendency to rapid increase, there is no necessity for operative interference. For a certainty, after a time, it will cease to grow, and also as certainly de- generate or waste, so that under such circumstances it is not necessary to interfere. Should, however, the nsevus be so situated as to be an inconvenience or a deformity; or should it grow so rapidly as to threaten to become either, something must be attempted, and this some- thing is to be determined by the nature of the nsevus and of the tissue in which it is placed. If 'purely cutaneous and not involving deeper tissues, it may be destroyed by some external application, such as caustics, nitric acid, or potassa fusa, chloride of zinc, or tartarized antimony, the two former being applied directly to the part, the two latter in the form of Vienna paste, or otherwise. The hot iron and the gas or gal- vanic cautery are also very valuable destructive agents; one touch of either of these latter, steadily applied, destroying the growth, and with but little pain. In the purely subcutaneous ncevus the treatment by caustics or cautery applied as a caustic is clearly inapplicable. When encysted, as very often it is, excision is the best remedy, but care should be taken to save the skin When such treatment cannot be adopted the nsevus may be strangled by a ligature applied subcutaneously,