82 SYPHILIS. Rhagades. Ulceration of tliroat. Varieties. Mucous the more common form, and is found in organs of generation, tubercle. tongue, mouth, lips, nose, palate, throat, rectum, and anus, and occa- sionally in other parts of the alimentary canal. It is known also in the larynx. At times these tubercles break down and ulcerate, giving rise to irregular excavated sores. Moist tubercles may appear in syphilitic subjects at any part of the body where two skin surfaces are in contact, associated with moisture. When they are found between the toes they are known as rhagades, and when about the orifice of a mucous passage as a condyloma. Syphilitic sore throat may appear as a mere mucous patch upon the surface of the mucous membrane, or at times as an ulceration of this patch, while at others it shows itself as a distinct aflfection, the throat becoming swollen and of a livid colour, and rapidly passing into ulcera- tion. These ulcers may attack the soft palate, pillars of the fauces, tonsils, or pharynx, and present every kind of appearance, shape, and character. They may be serpiginous like the trail of a snake, horse- shoe shaped or circular, superficial or excavated with sharp edges, in- flamed, sloughing, or indolent. By themselves they are not typical of syphilis, however suspicious, and other concomitant symptoms are re- quired to determine the diagnosis. The mucous patch is the most characteristic. No ulceration is typical, although the sharply cut excavated ulcer is the most unmistakeable. In hereditary syphilis this form of excavated ulcer is rare, though I have seen the perforating ulcer of the soft palate in an infected infant a month old. Syphilitic disease of the tongue is a very troublesome affection, and manifests itself in a variety of ways; it appears more commonly in the form of aphthous and mucous patches, ulcerating or otherwise, and not unfrequently the whole thickness of the organ is infiltrated with the gummatous syphilitic material, either as an isolated nodule or as a general infiltration. When this nodule has softened down and suppu- rated a deep excavated sore or fissure may be left, not unlike that of cancer, and when this sloughs or is of a chronic nature the diagnosis becomes still more obscure. In cancer, however, there is probably a more marked local induration than in syphilis, and rarely a sharp well- defined edge. The history of the case is, too, very different. The mucous lining of the mouth, lips, nose, &c., is also equally liable to syphilitic disease, either in the shape of aphthous and mucous patches or of ulceration, not unlike that found on the throat or tongue; indeed the disease of one part of the mucous membrane is the same as that of all others, the local appearances and symptoms being modified only by the peculiarities of the part. In ulceration of the rectum syphilis bears an important part, and as : a cause of stricture is not rare. When present, the disease usually spreads upwards from the anus, the bowel being in some cases super- • ficially, in others deeply infiltrated and ulcerated. This form of disease is more common in women than in men (vide Chapter XVI). Syphilitic disease of the periosteum shows itself in the form of nodes,. disease of the rarely as a single node. If the tibia be involved, several swellingss periosteum, gg^jjg occurs in other bones, particularly the cranium. The swelling is merely an effusion of the gummy material beneath the.’ periosteum. When the bones are attacked the disease is mostly chronic, ' and too often ends in the death of the part, i. e. in necrosis. Mucous patch. Syphilitic disease of the tougue. Mouth, lips, uose, &c. Ulceration of rectum. Syphilitic