451 ANEURISM. If, nevertheless, there were coldness of the limb and a threatening' of gangrene, the wire can be at once untwisted and relaxed, or even removed. III. Ultimately, the current through the artery and the sac is entirely obstructed so as to produce the needful clot. Of course, this complete obstruction can be effected at first if desired; and, therefore, this operation does what no operation, by ligature or forceps, &c., can do, viz. it gives the surgeon a choice between the rapid and the gra- dual method of treatment. But, as herein described, it is in fact a combination of the two, which is better than either alone. It will be seen that, in the opinion of the author, the gradual method is much to be preferred, and he considers it one of the chief merits of his operation that this ett'ect can be produced. IV. The wire does not act as a foreign body in the wound, setting up suppuration and impeding the healing process as a ligature does. V. It is not a fixture upon the artery remaining for an indefinite period, but, its work being done, it can be at once got rid of. VI. The clot produced by this concurrence of the gradual and rapid method is less likely to break down and suppurate than the soft sudden clot, which is the effect of the ligature. VII. And lastly. As there is no possibility of bleeding from the artery, the surgeon has a wider choice of locality for operation. For instance, the common femoral or the external carotid, which, on account of hBBinorrhagic risks, are usually avoided by the operator, may be safely treated on this plan, which is indeed applicable to all arteries alike. N.B.—Inasmuch as it does not obliterate the artery at the site of the application of the wire, this procedure, in its present form, is not suitable for the distal operation, but it is probable that complete occlusion and obliteration may be effected by the simple modification of applying two wires upon the vessel about half an inch apart, between which a clot would form and become organised. All this is quite trustworthy in traumatic aneurism or in a wounded artery, a wire being applied on either side of the orifice in the artery and the vessel divided between them. This is proved by its perfect success in amputation, &c. The Treatment by Ligature. Such a plan should ouly be entertained when that by compression in Treatment one of its forms is inapplicable, or has proved unsuccessful. It should by ligature, be carried out when possible by the Hunterian method (Fig. 135), by the application of a ligature at some distance from the sac and not by the “ methode d’Anel,” in which the ligature is applied close to the aneurism; because by the Hunterian operation the chief flow of blood through the aneurism is arrested, the collateral circulation main- tained, and the artery more likely to be healtby when ligatured at some distance from the seat of disease. The operation is also, as a rule, less difficult. A moderately thick round ligature should be employed either of silk, hemp, or carbolised catgut. When a silk or hempen ligature is used, it .subsequently ulcerates through, or a portion of the artery sloughs away with it. The process takes from nine to twenty days, or more in large vessels, and in this lies the weakness of the treatment by ligature. When the carbolised catgut ligature is employed, some ulceration of the vessel at