301 REFRACTION. The trial glasses, which are now coming very generally into use, are arranged according to what is known as the “metrical system.” The Metrical unit in this system is a lens of one metre focal length; it is called a lenses, “dioptric” ( = H)- A lens of two dioptrics is double the strength of Dioptric, that of one dioptric, and has a focal length of half a metre (fifty centi- metres), and so on. The box of trial glasses contains convex and con- cave spherical and cylindrical lenses. It can he obtained from any good optician. We test refraction with lenses as follows:—Having placed our Test of patient at 6 metres from the sheet on which are printed letters from refaction D = 6* to D = 60, we direct him to look towards it. Should he be hypermetropic he will be able to make out all or most of the letters; Hyper- he will already have told us that he cannot see to do near work or read for any length of time without the eyes becoming fatigued and vision growing misty. We ascertain how many of the letters can he read by each eye separately. Should both eyes read the same letters, we hold before them convex glasses, beginning with -I-1 D, and continue the trial until we have ascertained the strongest convex lens with which the greatest attainable acuteness of vision is still maintained. Thus, supposing our patient reads D = 6 at 6 metres, we find the strongest convex lens with which he can still read D = 6; should he read D = 12 without a convex lens, and D = 6 by the aid of one, we find the strongest with which he can still read D = 6; if we cannot improve vision, so that he reads more than D = 12, we find the strongest convex glass with which he can still read D = 12, and so on. Should there he a difterence between the two eyes, we must test the refraction of each separately, keeping one covered during the trial of the other. The strongest convex lens which still allows the patient to see as well at a distance as is possible, either with or without the aid of glasses, shows a part of the accommodative power which he was obliged to exercise in order to bring parallel rays of light to a focus upon the retina of his too short eye. The employment of such a lens prevents this waste of accommodation, and reserves it, to be used when required for near work. Should our patient be myopic, he will probably tell us that he is Myopia, near-sighted; he will make out but few or none of the letters at 6 ' metres; if the small types be given him to read, he will hold them near the eyes, but will make out the smallest, provided the book be held close enough. We notice at what distance the small types can be read by each eye separately, and, as in hypermetropia, if there be no difference between the two test their refraction together. We tell our patient to look towards the sheet on which are the letters from U = 6 to D = 60, and hold before his eyes concave lenses beginning with that the negative focal length of which corresponds to the distance at which small types are read. Thus, if the small types can be read at twenty centimetres, we begin the trial with a lens of 5 D, the negative focal length of which Is twenty centimfetres. We continue the trial until we have found the weakest concave lens with which distant letters can be most plainly seen. Should our patient 1 The smaller letters D = 5, D=4. D=8, &c., placed at their equally well if we have not a distance of 6 metres at disposal. proper distances, will do