380 VASCULAR PROTRUSION OF THE EYEBALL. Morbid chauges. Cause of vascular protrusion of eyeball. I Case of t];aumatic aneurism. Effect of pressure ou carotid. The morbid changes met with in the three cases examined after death by Mr. Nunneley were in one (in which the disease commenced spontaneously, and the patient died sixteen days after ligature of the carotid) a dilatation of the carotid at the point of giving off the ophthalmic branch, the dilatation being filled with and surrounded by coagulum; the ophthalmic artery itself was somewhat dilated, its coats thickened, and atheromatous in parts; two of its branches were much dilated and filled with clot. In another case, also of spontaneous origin, a circumscribed aneurism of the ophthalmic artery, close to its origin, was discovered. The third case was found to be one of can- cerous disease within the orbit, associated with cancerous tumours, in other parts of the body. In the majority of cases of “ vascular protrusion ” of the eyeball the disease is not within the orbit, but intracranial, the protrusion being dependent on obstruction to the retiu-n of venous blood, and analogous to the swelling and congestion seen in the limbs when the main artery is affected by aneurism. It is easy to understand how, in a small and firmly bounded space like the cavernous sinus, a very insignificant dilatation of the com- mencement of the ophthalmic artery, or of the carotid itself at any point within the sinus, or a small hmmorrhage from either, may prove a most serious impediment to the return of venous blood, much more so tlian the same amount of disease situated in the cavity of the orbit itself. Nsevus, oS is well known, is not unfrequently met with in the orbit, but is, usually, easily enough diagnosed. (See p. 382.) A case of traumatic aneurism of the orbit, which is, I believe, unique, came under my observation in September, 1873. The patient, a young gentleman, was, some two months previously, opening a hamper in which were some bottles of soda water; one of these burst, and a large piece of glass was driven with considerable force into the left orbit, inflicting a wound in the upjJer eyelid, just external to the internal angular process of the frontal bone; the glass dropped out; sharp arterial hsemorrhage occurred, which was stopped by pressure; much swelling and ecchymosis of the lids followed. The wound healed, the swelling and ecchymosis disappeared, and all appeared to be going on well, but shortly before being seen by me the eyeball seemed to be somewhat protruded, and considerable conges- tion of tbe eyelids and conjunctiva was noticed. When first seen by me there was much venous congestion of the eyelids and conjunctiva (no chemosisl, marked protrusion of the eyeball in a direction somewhat outwards; a small pulsating tumour could be distinctly felt near the inner angle of the orbit; a marked thrill was communicated to the eyeball, which could be felt on placing the hand upon the closed lids; a buzzing in the head was complained of, especially on stooping; there was a small linear cicatrix over the pulsating tumour, marking the seat of the original injury. _ j Ophthalmoscopic examination showed an extremely dilated .and tor- tuous condition of the retinal veins, but detected no pulsation; there was no impairment of vision. _ , Pressure on the left carotid at once stopped the pulsation, ana caused considerable decrease of the venous congestion. Aneurismal varix was diagnosed. Perfect rest and pressure appliea