618 GASTROSTOMY. Oblique incision recom- mended. Mode of fastening stomach to parietes. Mode of opening stomach. After- treatment. be placed upon his back, and an incision made on the left side below the ribs, the object being to find the cardiac end of the stomach in preference to the pyloric. The line of the linea semilunaris is that usually selected for the incision—a cut three or four inches long being made through the tissues seriatim down to the fascia lining the muscles— every vessel being twisted or tied as it bleeds; but, in my own operations I make an oblique incision along the lower borders of the ribs, commencing at the linea semilunaris, and I do so with the view of catching the cardiac end of the stomach, and I may add that I pick up the stomach with my fingers very readily. The fascia and peritoneum can then be divided. With the thumb and finger the stomach can now be sought, and held when caught. This is best efiected by the passage of a Liston’s needle armed wdth a long double silk ligature through the margins of the wound and the stomach’s coats, and a second about three quarters of an inch lower down. The surgeon has then to fasten the stomach to the margins of the wound, and for this purpose the quill suture seems to be the best. The stomach should then be opened over the ligatures that have been passed through it by an incision being made in the line of the wound; the centre of the double ligatures will then become exposed, and these should be drawn well out and divided. There will then be two double ligatures through each side of the opening in the stomach and the margin of the wound. On tying the two ends over two pieces of bougie, one introduced against the inner surface of the stomach, and the other upon the integument, the parts are secured, the bougies admirably compressing the thin walls of the stomach against the integuments, and retaining them there. One or two other sutures will probably be required to close the wound, and an additional one at either end of the opening in the stomach to keep it in its place; the operation is then complete. When the quill suture is not used, the stomach must be stitched to the margins of the wound in the ordinary way, but a more accurate adaptation of the parts and greater security is acquired by the quill suture than any other, and what is more, the pieces of bougie are capital guides to the orifice into the stomach, the slightest traction upon them rendering it patent for feeding purposes; and with this object one of the sutures should be left long on either lip of the wound. After the operation, it is advisable to desist from giving food for a few hours, in order to give the stomach rest; although, after a day or so, liquid nourishment may be administered in small quantities through a tube, milk and eggs being probably the best, or milk alone. Where enemata can be tole- rated they should be used. Care must be observed that too much food is not given as it retards progress, a quart or three pints of milk in twenty-four hours being sufficient. The edges of the wound should be carefully protected by oiled lint. The sutures may probably be removed wholly or in part on the fifth or sixth day. Schonborn, of Konigsberg, advises the early performance of this operation while the stricture is still passable to small bougies and to facilitate the opera- tion, advocates the use of a hollow bougie with a child’s india-rubber ball’ou its top, which should be introduced by the gullet, and blown up in the stomach. This suggestion seems worthy of adoption when it can be acted upon. It must be added that Sedillot was the first surgeon to perform the