591 (ESOPHAGEAL OBSTRUCTION. is often present after the operation of tracheotomy for croup, the want of adaptive power in the muscles of deglutition allowing liquid food to travel down the larynx and appear at the external tracheal wound. Laryngeal and pharyngeal tumours and tumours about the base of the tongue, can also produce the same symptoms. When dysphagia is due to oesophageal obstruction, it may arise from When due to spasmodic or organic stricture of the tube itself, or, to the presence of oesophageal cancerous, syphilitic, or simple ulceration; when to pressure from obstruction, without, to some thoracic, cervical, or aneurismal tumour, or to the presence of a foreign body in the tube. Stricture of the oesophagus, as a rule, takes place at its upper end Stricture of behind the cricoid cartilage, though it may also occur at other parts, ^gophaeus It may be spasmodic or hysterical, but more frequently is associated with some kind of ulcerative action, simple, syphilitic or cancerous, occasionally it is cicatricial, the result of a former injury, such as the swallowing of a corrosive fluid. In the majority of cases, how- ever, the disease is due to cancer. It is a great question whether a simple fibrous stricture of the oesophagus, such as is found in the urethra, ever takes place. Thoracic aneurism is capable of producing every symptom of this affection. Spasmodic or hysterical stricture is usually met with in the young. Spasmodic but it may be found at all ages. Paget has described it as a kind of stricture, stammering of the muscles. It is probably always associated with some local irritation, follicular inflammation or ulceration. This may have originated by itself, or been caused by an injury such ns a scratch from the passage of a hard or shaiq) body. It is, moreover, usually associated with dysphagia. The dysphagia is likewise inter- mittent and uncertain; as when a patient is given food or fluid to test her power, it will be said that it is impossible to do what is required, and should it be attempted to a certainty the sufferer may half choke. Yet, at other times when otherwise engaged, food can be taken. If a probang be used to examine the part, its introduction will be violently opposed by the pharyngeal muscles, though with a little steady pres- sure, all obstruction will be overcome. (Esophageal Obstruction. When a patient complains of difficulty in swallowing, or rather of (Esophageal t difficulty in passing food onwards down the oesophagus after the act obstruction. I of swallowing has been performed, and of its subsequent return into the t mouth, the surgeon in looking for its cause should first think of thoracic May be due I aneurism, then of cancer of some portion of the tube, and, lastly, of to aneurism, J simple ulceration. He should also always inquire into the history ^eeSon. ( of the case, and satisfy himself that in no previous period has the ) patient sustained any local injury from the swallowdng of boiling j watet or corrosive fluid. If the last cause be eliminated, and a careful ^ia*nogig I examination of the chest with other modes of investigation dispose of the ° p question of aneurism, then that of cancer becomes the most important, I as there is little doubt, that such, in the majority of cases of organic I stricture of the oesophagus, is the true cause. In the early stages of i the aflection, the diagnosis is difficult, indeed at this period, the ^ly stage. I surgeon is seldom consulted, for so long as solid food passes, the patient li is hardly aware of any obstruction existing as the habit of swallowing