626 CHEONIC OBSTEUCTION. Diagnosis betwrun atrictuve and contractions. We come now to the two larger divisions of cases, viz., those of stricture and of contractions, and a very little consideration will show that these cases have as distinct a clinical history as they have a patliology, and that they, moreover, require a distinct line of treatment. With respect to their pathology it may at once be stated that “ con- traction ’’ is the cause of chronic obstruction of the small intestines, and “ stricture ” of obstruction of the large bowel. That the cases of “ contraction” are due to the matting together of the intestinal coils from more or less diffused inflammatory or can- cerous peritoneal disease, while cases of stricture are due to a local narrowing of the bowel from disease of its coats. In the cases of “contraction” the action of the intestines (small or large) is interfered with from adhesions or from a bending or doubling of the bowel upon itself, and consequently there is an interference with the peri- staltic movements. In those of “ stricture” the action of the bowels is pre- vented from the direct mechanical obstruction occasioned by the stricture. The clinical history and symptoms of these two classes of cases consequently differ. In the case of “ contraction” the symptoms are clearly referable to a difficulty in the passage downwards of the intestinal contents; in that of “ stricture” to a difficulty in defsecation. In the former case the symptoms are attacks of griping colicky abdominal pain, irregular and incomplete intestinal evacuations, and the painless discharge of healthy motions. In the latter there is mostly an absence of abdominal pain beyond that due to distension, more or less complete constipation, alternating with looseness of bowels, the occasional or frequent mixture of mucus or blood with the motions and painful defsecation. In “ contraction” when sickness exists it will be passing and lasting only during the attack of colicky pain. In “ stricture ” it will occnr towards the close of the disease when the obstruction is more complete. In “ contractions” the abdomen probably will not be much distended and if it be so, only during the attack, the distension, moreover, will be central and hypogastric. “ The intestines will then,” writes Fagge, “ be seen writhing and coiling, and a gurgling of fluid is heard; there will also be visible distinct peristaltic movements of the intestines.” In “ stricture” the abdomen will to a certainty be distended and the dis- tension will be lumbar and epigastric; large coils of distended bowel will also be visible with peristaltic movements, the visible peristalsis in both cases being due to the chronicity of the affection and conse- quently to the hypertrophy of the bowel from overwork. Such then are the broad points of distinction between the two large classes of cases of chronic intestinal obstruction, and they are enough to guide the surgeon in his practice. At times, however, the distinctions fail. Indeed, when the history of a case of either contraction or stricture is deficient, the diagnosis is most difficult, and if seen when the symptoms are at their height one or other may be mistaken for cases of acute obstruction, the chronic symptoms of which nothing can be known, having lighted up into the visibly acute, in the same way as a case of incarcerated or obstructed hernia may suddenly develop into one of acute strangulation. Having then thus mapped out the chief points of distinction between the two classes of cases of chronic intestinal obstruction, and bearing