Prognosis of acute form. Treatment of poisoned wounds. Anatomical tubercle. 6S DISSECTION WOUNDS. and diffused sloughing of the skin may ensue—all these points being materially influenced by the power of the patient to throw off morbific influences. The prognosis in these acute cases must be unfavorable. Travers cal- culated that one in seven recovers; probably this is rather in excess of experience; but if the patient does not sink during the violence of the attack, his powers will be tried to the utmost by the protracted suppuration. The inoculation from a recently dead body is more serious than that from an old subject of the dissecting-room, and the fluids from a patient who has died from glanders, peritonitis, and scarlet or puerperal fever, are far more dangerous than all others. There is reason, indeed, to be- lieve that the contact with such fluids is capable of giving rise to the disease without any local wound or abrasion. Treatment.—To keep the patient alive and to treat on general prin- ciples any local symptoms as they arise is the usual method now pursued. A student when he pricks his finger should at once clean and suck the wound, and at the same time arrest the circulation of blood through it for at least a minute, by pressure applied with the op- posite hand on its cardiac side. The part may then be closed over, a piece of gutta-percha skin made adherent with chloro- form being an admirable application. “WTien the wound is free and the poison is from a recent puerperal or allied case, some caustic such as the nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, or even nitric acid may be applied. The first two are probably the best. When any inflamma- tion appears, a poultice should be applied, and tbe hand raised above the shoulder, and, if there should be any tension of the part, it is to be at once relieved by an incision. Absorbent or cellular inflammation should be treated by fomenta- tions. Some surgeons have faith in the local application of nitrate of silver, iodine, or the solution of the perchloride of iron as a means for ar- resting its progress. The glands when enlarged should be freely bathed with hot water, and hot fomentations constantly applied. The earliest indications of suppuration ought to be looked for in order that pus may be at once evacuated. Sloughs are to be removed by moderate incisions. Tonics should be given from the first, iron when it can be borne with or without quinine in full doses, or ammonia and bark when the former tonics are inapplicable. Nutritious food ought to be given in abundance, milk being the best drink; stimulants, too, when needed, but always with caution. Country air, as soon as it can be enjoyed, is the great aid upon which reliance may be placed for recovery. •* Anatomical or Pathological Tubercle. This is a chronic skin affection, which is to be met with on the hands of those constantly engaged in making post-mortem examina- tions. Dr. Wilks, when describing some models of the aft'eetion that are to be seen iii Guy’s museum (Fig. 11), called it “ verruca necro- genica ” (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1862). In its early stage it is not unlike epi- thelial cancer. “ It commences without any evident breach of surface, the parts affected being not those liable to pustules, as the baek of tho hand or wrist, but the knuckles and joints of the fingers. If the disease should begin with a pustule, the pustule bursts, but instead of healing, a