■ INFLAMMATION OP LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. 187 tissue around the inflamed parts, together with the constitutional sym- ptoms, will disappear. In less favorable examples suppuration may take place, either as jjay a local or difiused suppuration of the affected glands and surrounding suppurate, cellular tissue; as a local abscess in the course of the lymphatics, or as a series of local abscesses. In extreme cases the suppuration May be may partake more of a diffused character, such as that already de- complicated, scribed as taking place in phlegmonous erysipelas. With these local changes the constitutional symptoms will assume different features; the febrile disturbance probably being great, but marked by depression; rigors may repeat themselves at regular intervals, these generally indicating some suppurative process. When typhoid symptoms appear with rigors and sweating, the case has clearly become one of blood poisoning or septicaemia. There are thus three different classes of cases : The three The simple, terminating in resolution ; the more severe, ending in classes local glandular or lymphatic suppuration; and the complicated, marked explained, by diffused inflammation and suppuration with general blood poisoning. In the simple form, the poisonous element is probably of a diluted or but slightly irritating nature, and is generally some altered secretion of a simple wound due to external irritation. In the more complicated or severe forms, the poisonous element is of a more active kind, and has been either introduced from without in the form of a distinct animal poison, such as is derived from a dissection wound, or the bite of an animal; or is generated from within, as seen in puerperal cases. Inflammation of the absorbents, erysipelas, phlegmonous or other- wise, and septicffimia, are all closely connected. The effects of inflammation of the absorbents, however, are not The effects of constant or alike in all cases. In some the glandular enlargement inflammation alone is to be recognised, with more or less extensive suppuration ^bsortents of the glands and their surrounding connective tissue, without any external evidence of inflammation .of the lymphatics leading to the glands. In others the red line of inflamed absorbents will be visible without glandular complication, or little more than a slight induration of the gland. At times there will be suppuration only along the track of the lymphatics but none in the glands, this suppuration taking the form of local abscesses. I have seen in a case of absorbent inflamma- tion of the forearm and arm, four distinct abscesses in the line of inflammation, with only axillary glandular tenderness. Occasionally the lymphatics appear as a hard cord beneath the skin, xhe dnet may In a case I had under my care some years ago this cord remained hard be ruptured, and contracted for many weeks after all signs of inflammatory action had ceased. It occurred in a gentleman who was in the habit at night of going through some simple muscular exercises, and in doing this, the cord in the arm snapped on the inner side of the biceps. I saw him a few minutes after the accident, and felt the two ends of it,^ which were apart for about an inch. Next morning the thin skin covering the anterior surface of the forearm w^as elevated, loose and baggy, from the effusion of fluid beneath it. There were no signs of inflammation or pain beyond local tenderness at the point of rupture of the lymphatic cord. In four or five days the fluid was reabsorbed, and convalescence restored, the hard cord gradually disappearing, and all traces of its separation becoming lost. I looked upon the