606 RUPTURE OF VISCERA. Ruptured urinary liladder. Seat of rupture. Results. Symptoms. Treatmeut. Opium. Use of catheter. On tbe thirtieth day after the accident, as he did not improve, he was admitted into the London Hospital, under Drs. Herbert Davies and Sutton. Then he had abdominal pain, tenderness, and disten- sion. ^ There was distinct ascitic fluctuation over the abdomen, and deep jaundice. He sank eight days after his admission, and thirty- eight days after the accident. The autopsy revealed the fact that the hepatic duct was torn across a quarter of an inch above the spot where the cystic joins the common duct; no other part of the liver was injured. The abdominal cavity contained quarts of olive-green bile- stained fluid, and the peritoneum was covered with yellow matter of the colour and consistence of paint, which was found to be inspissated bile. Rupture of the urinary bladder without fracture of the pelvis is also to be met with as the result of some abdominal injury, and, when it occurs, is usually due to external violence applied to a distended organ. As a rule the rupture takes place at its posterior wall, the urine escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and rapidly causing death. In exceptional cases it affects the anterior wall, when the urine infiltrates the cellular tissue of the pelvis. Birkett tells us (' Holmes’s Surgery,’ vol. ii) that, with three exceptions, all the cases recorded, terminated fatally. In one only of these three was the peritoneum involved (Chaldecott’s case, ‘ Prov. Med. Surg. Journ.,’ 1846), in the other two the extravasa- tion was into the pelvic connective tissue. Dr. Stephen Smith, of New York, in an able monograph, 1851, reports five cases of recovery out of seventy-eight, these figures not including one of Birkett’s (Porter’s case), consequently the recoveries reported amount to six. The symptoms of the injury are mostly collapse, preceded by severe abdominal pain and ineffectual attempts to micturate. When life be prolonged peritonitis more or less acute will appear. Dr. Smith reports three cases in which the inability to urinate continued, and twelve in which it returned on the second or a later day. Rupture of the bladder with fracture of the pelvis likewise occurs. If the surgeon be induced to pass a catheter from the ineffec- tual efforts of the patient to pass urine, it will often happen, that no success will be achieved, but in some cases, a vast amount of fluid will be withdrawn, the catheter under these circumstances having doubtless been passed through the rent in the posterior wall of the organ into the peritoneal cavity. I have known a case where several pints of fluid were drawn off under these circumstances. Treatment.—When anytime exists for treatment, the indications are, to allow of a free exit for the urine as soon as secreted, and, to check peritonitis. A certain amount of peritonitis must be looked upon as beneficial, as it tends towards the first indication of treatment, the prevention of extravasation, but any excess of action requires prompt treatment. Opium is without doubt the best drug to promote this end, a full dose of the solid or the tincture being given, and followed up to maintain its action; absolute rest, local fomentations, and possibly leeches are valuable adjuncts. As little food should be given as is absolutely necessary to maintain life, and ice in moderation to allay thirst. The bladder should be kept empty, the maintenance of a large catheter in the viscus, with an opening in the end, being the best method, according to Birkett; though it seems probable that a free iuci-