62 ON SEPTICEMIA. Pyaemia not n hospital disease. Treatment. Of 606 treated without amputation— 103 died, or 17' per cent. 24 of pysemia, or 3'9 per cent. Out of 324 cases of amputation of thigh, leg, arm, and forearm for disease . . , 126 died, or 38'8 per cent. 26 of pyaemia, or 8‘ per cent. Pyaemia is thus seen to he three times as fatal after amputation for compound fracture as for disease. Out of 29,434 surgical cases admitted into Guy’s during 10 years, there were 1749 deaths, or 5-9 per cent. 203 of these were from pyaemia, or 11'6 per cent, of the fatal cases; about one in nine of the deaths arising ^ from this cause. But of the whole number of cases treated, pyaemia was fatal in one case out of about 150, not two-thirds per cent. But is pycsmia a hospital disease ? Does it arise from causes that are generated in a hospital ? or is it met with more frequently in a hospital because the class of cases in which it is most prone to occur are there treated ? Is it found in private practice ? As an answer to the last question it is only necessary for me to refer to Mr. Prescott Hewett’s presidential address at the Clinical Society in 1874, in which he gave the particiilars of twenty-three e.xamples of pysemia occurring in private practice, and in six only after operations, four being very trivial operations. Sixteen of these were in town and seven in the country, and all were placed under most favorable circumstances. We know, moreover, that some of the worst cases of pyaemia that are seen in the Loudon hospitals—and I can answer for Guy’s—are ad- mitted with the affection. Under these circumstances it may confidently he asserted, that whatis known as pyaemia is not peculiarly a hospital disease, and that it probably occurs after surgical injuries and operations as frequently in private as in hospital practice. It is true that pyaemia often takes its origin in hospitals, but equally true is it that it does so because the class of cases in which the affection is the most prone to occur are there to be found. Blood poisoning may occur anywhere, in hospitals or in private houses; but it is unfair and unscientific to attribute it without reason or evidence to what has been so wrongly described as “ Hos- pitalism.” Teeatment.—An unlimited supply of fresh air, simple nutritious food, and, where a wound or suppuration exists, the most thorough cleanliness, are the main points of practice to be attended to in the treatment of every case of traumatic fever or pysemia. Compared with these, all other means are of secondary importance. As the disease is due to a blood poison, often taken into the body from without, it is the surgeon’s duty to see that the patient’s room is well ventilated, that it is neither too hot nor too cold, as both extremes are powerful depressants; that the air circulating through it is free, fresh, and fragrant; that the room is frequently purified by cleansing and disinfectants, large dishes of any disinfecting fluid and cloths satu- rated with the same being distributed about; solid iodine exposed in a plate to the air is a good disinfectant, and more persistent than some