415 HEMORRHAGE. are ruptured (Figs. 119 B and c), and the outer (a), when not twisted oft‘, closed by the twists to which it has been subjected. But the inner coats, instead of being simply divided in a linear manner, as occurs when the ligature is used, become ruptured, separated from the outer coat and incurved, their divided ends turning into the vessel, and in the most perfect examples forming complete valves, not unlike the semi- lunar valves of the heart. The blood, which is consequently arrested by this valvular incurvation of the inner tunic, undergoes changes !precisely similar to those already described. Plastic lymph is poured out by the divided tunics in the same way as has been shown in the application of the ligature, and it acts the same part in cementing all ■ the arterial tunics and clot together. Between the two forms of 1 practice, however, there is this difference, that where the ligature has been used, ulceration of the vessel is necessary to allow of its escape, and this may undo all that Nature has done to seal the artery and [prevent hajmorrhage; whereas, when torsion has been efficiently per- iformed and the hsemorrhage arrested, no subsequent action is liable to undo the good work that has been done or hinder the permanent closure of the vessel. With both ligature and torsion, natural hmmostatics are aided in their Iwork; but with the former the ulceration set up by the ligature may [materially interfere with the perfection of the process; while with ithe latter there is nothing to prevent the process going on to its completion. On Haemorrhage and its Treatment. When bleeding takes place rapidly from a wound after an injury On or operation, it is called primary; when it occurs within twenty- ha;morrli»ge. four hours or in rare cases within two days, it is called recurring tor intermediary, and, when after a lapse of a longer period, secondary. T\\e primary is due to the direct injury of the vessel; the recurring Primary, to the increased force of the circulation during reaction, and the dis- Recurring, placement of clots that were sufficient to seal vessels when the circula- tion was feeble; to the overlooking of a vessel during the dressing of a wound, or, to some imperfection in the mode of securing it at the time of operation. The secondary is Cfmsed by the giving way of an artery Secondary, or vein; by ulceration of tbe ligature; by sloughing of the vessel alone or with the tissues around ; by the accidental separation of a ligature; I' ijury ; or owing to the hromorrhagic diathesis. When blood escapes from a wound externally or into a cavity, the Symptoms of 3rm hcemorrhageis applied; when beneath the integuments or amongst external issues, extravasation or effusion is said to occur. nsemorrhage. The symptoms of external hminorrhage require no description; the low flow or the sudden gush of the life’s blood being recognisable y all. Those of concealed, internal ha.>mon’hage or e.xtravasation Concealed equire, how-ever, some attention. They are those of local injury, htemorrhage. hose general symptoms which denote hsemorrhage generally. “In slow and in sudden hemorrhages,”wrote John Bell seventy Bell’s ears ago, “ the symptoms are very difl’erent. In the former the patient ‘Inscription ! very slowdy exhausted; at each return of bleeding the patient faints, *’y nd is laid in bed, and the cold applications and the fainting save his ife. He rises, after some days, pale, languid, and giddy. The pulse ■I lutters, and is hardly to be felt; the breathing is quick and anxious I ccompauied with sighing and great oppression; the heart palpitates