520 PAROTID TUMOURS. Mumps. Parotid and submax illai7 tumours. Mode of removal. Cancerous tumours of the parotid. associated with any obstruction to Steno’s duct. It was troublesome only from the trickling of saliva during mastication, though to one of the patients, who was a lady, this caused much annoyance. 1 tried the cautery in one of these cases, but without success. Parotiditis or “ Mumps.” This is a simple, although an infectious, disease, having a tendency to get well with simple fomentations of the parts, a saline purgative, and a mild tonic. It is occasionally metastatic to the testicle. When it follows upon a fever, it is a severe affection, and not unfre- quently passes on to suppuration; such abscesses spread easly, the deep fascia covering them in forbidding a natural outlet except by burrowing. Salivary fistula in the neck may follow in sue! a case. Professor Crocq, of Brussels, believes this disease is the resultof a sto- matitis propagated along the duct of the parotid gland to the glmd itself. Parotid and Submaxillary Tumours. These have one peculiarity, viz. that they are almost alwa;s more or less cartilaginous—the ordinary form of tumour in this regon being thefibro-cartilaginous—they, moreover, are mostly encysted,having a peculiar hard, elastic feel and botryoidal outline. They aregenerally embedded in the structure of the gland, and vary much in tbir depth; tumours that appear moveable and superficial, too ofto dipping well down into the tissues and thus increasing the difficuly of their removal. These simple tumours may grow to a large size, nd stretch the skin greatly over them, and should always be removed ;the earlier the better. In removing them, the snrgeon should be careful to make his incision well down to the capsule, when he will robably be able to enucleate the growth. It is far better practice to 6 this, even with the application of a little force, than to be too free wit tbe knife, for the facial nerve is generally in close contact with the amour and the deep vessels are beneath. He should also alway cut upon the tumour, dividiif only such tissues as hold it own, taking great care too thf the large vessels are, if possile, left un- injured. In deep! placed tu- mours, this removaby enuclea- tion is still mor necessary. When the tumour ilarge, there is always a stron probability that the facial nrve will be divided or injurt, hence it is as well to repare the patient for the fit. Fig. 193 illustrates the sitrtion and ex- ternal appearance'one of these tumours. Cancerous turners of the pa- rotid are likewiseaet with, but assume a very lifferent ap- pearance from tl last. They are mostly infilttions of the gland, fixed, diffused, and deep seated; they are, morefer, generally Fia. 193. Submaxillary tumour.