WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. 409 great extent, and sudden death ensue from the immediate gush of blood. In oblique wounds there will he less gaping of the edges. With respect to the cases of recovery, Sanson has recorded an instance in which a cicatrix in the heart was found some lengthened period after the receipt of a wound from which the patient had recovered in twenty- eight days. Velpeau has cited a second, of a man, aged fifty, who died nine years after having received a wound in the left side of the chest from a table knife, and in whom the pericardium was found largely opened and adherent to the parietal cicatrix, while fibrous lines traversed the whole thickness of the right auricle, at a point corre- sponding to the breach of surface in the pericardium. In the ‘Medical Times and Gaz.’ of April 4th, 1874, a case is also reported of a Captain B—, set. 40, who died from dysentery, and after death a leaden bullet was found encysted outside the pericardium, between the origin of the puhiiouary artery in front and the ascending part of the arch of the aorta behind. The bullet had entered the chest above the nipple eleven years previously. The heart may also be lacerated by a severe contusion Laceration of or pressure upon the chest without external wound or fracture of the externaf*'”^*^ ribs.—(Thus at Guy's there is a prep. 1400-'*^, iu which both auricles wound, of the heart are lacerated with the pulmonary veins which was taken from a child, aged four, over whose back the wheel of a cart had passed. There is also another in the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh which proves this point.)—The diagnosis and treatment of this form of injury are the same as in cases of wounds. Treatment.—As hsemorrhage after a wound of the heart is the Treatment of main fear, so to prevent and arrest it should be the chief aim. With «'ound of this object, absolute repose is essential, and should be maintained throughout the case. The local and general employment of cold is also to be advised. To calm the excited action of the heart belladonna and digitalis have been recommended, and so even has venesection. The diet sliould be nutritious, but unstimulating. When the pericar- dium is full of blood, it has been suggested to lay open the cavity to let it out, but the uncertainty of diagnosis is sufficient to forbid the attempt. For further information on the subject I may refer to Poland’s article in ‘ Holmes’ Surgery,’ which contains an admirable analysis of Fischer’s paper; also to a paper by West in the ‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870. Wounds of the large vessels of the chest are generally fatal, death Wounds of being immediate in most cases, from internal hsemorrhage. Dr. Heil, the large however, records a case in which a man after receiving a stab which '■e®®®*® penetrated the aorta, recovered and lived a year. Pelletan also cites ’ mother, in which a man was run through with a foil, which entered Examples, the chest above the right nipple, and came out at the left loinj 30 violent or marked symptoms followed the accident beyond con- itant pain in the loins. Two mouths later, h# died somewhat suddenly, n great agony from haemorrhage into the right side of his chest, and ifter death,^ an opening the size of a quill, was found in the aorta ibove the diaphragm. The Hunterian Museum (No. 1565a) contains iai specimen of the ascending aorta of a sailor, in which was lodged a l)ullet in a piece of integument surrounded by lymph. The wound was ijjjroduced by a musket ball passing through the diaphragm'and peri- '#ardium into the aorta; it entered the chest between the eighth and liinth ribs, and was followed by a rush of blood. All haemorrhage 3Wowevcr, very soon ceased. The man lived three days after the injury'.