T DISEASES OP THE TEETH. 571 if sionally results from the undue pressure of an opposing or contiguous X tootll. (d) Exostosis (i. e. hypertrophy of the crusta petrosa), sometimes n resulting from, sometimes the cause of irritation and inflammation of the periodontum. (c) A needle-like pointing of the end of the root, and a roughening 0 of its end by absorption. (d) Impaction of permanent teeth in the maxillary bones, and futile r attempts to erupt made by such teeth, especially in the case of lower n wisdoms. (e) Overcrowding of the teeth. Irritation of the dental nerves may excite pain at the point of irri- Odontalgia. 1 tation, producing toothache, the pain being either confined to the i faulty tooth or being centered in it and radiating to the adjoining teeth e and to the nerves of the same side of the face and head, but not in- I frequently it gives rise to reflex pain, in which case the tooth at fault Reflex nerve ) often escapes suspicion on account of its freedom from pain. More irriiation. I remote sympathetic nerve afl’ections are also sometimes caused by I dental irritation. A most unequal amount of pain or nerve disturbance occurs in dif- 1 ferent subjects from dental lesions of an apparently similar nature. ! Such differences must be referred to structural peculiarities of the : teeth and to the conditions of health and to the diathesis of the [ patient. A faulty tooth is the real origin of many cases of neuralgia about Neuralgia, the head and face, although cold or depressed vital power will deter- mine the time of onset. That remote sympathetic pain may be due to dental irritation will be easily realised by any one who has felt the distribution of his spinal nerves demonstrated on the scraping of sensitive dentine in his tooth. Toothache (or localised dental pain) varies in character according to Toothache, the part of the tooth involved; these differences will be apparent as the effects of disease in the several dental structures are considered, but it may be here remarked that a darting pain (which may fade away with an ache) betokens irritation and probable exposure of the pulp— From pulp that intense pain of a violent throbbing character points to general irritation, inflammation of the pulp and may be expected to cease entirely with From general the destruction of that structure’s vitality, and that the pain which inflammation, attends irritation and inflammation of the periodontal membrane is of From a dull or gnawing character; but may assume a throbbing character if an alveolar abscess is formed. Hyperaesthesia of the pulp may be expected to coexist with the con- Hypenes- ditions which act on its nerves, and is evidenced by sensitiveness of ® the tooth to heat and cold. A hot instrument applied in succession ^ to the crowns of suspected teeth may afford valuable evidence on this point, and tapping the teeth may also reveal the over-sensitiveness of any one tooth. Slight periosteal irritation may accompany this condition. Dental periostitis at its onset is often attended by a sensation of Perf. fulness in the tooth, which inclines the patient to press it firmly into odontitis, its socket; this sensation is succeeded by painful tenderness on pres- symptoms, sure of the tooth, which is often slightly raised and loosened, while the gum, which at first presents a narrow red line around the neck of the tooth, tends to become diffusely red and tender over the root.