13 ON REPAIR AND INFLAMMATION. union of fractures, &c., union cannot take place; and a like result ensues when too much action exists. This leads me now to consider what too much action in a wound means •, how it is to he recognised clinically and pathologically ; and what are its results. It is commonly known hy the term injtammation; and as this process, Inllamma- whether it affects a wound or any other part, has the same symptoms, I shall speak of it generally. As it affects a wound, so it affects the tissues when unattended hy a wound; consequently the consideration of its phenomena in the one case will illustrate the other. The Phenomena of Inflammation, When a wound is inflamed there are four points that arrest atten- a. Redness, tion. The first is redness, which appears as a mere blush on the edges of the wound, or may extend far and wide all around. It is cither of a bright red colour or of a livid hue—the former tint indicating a healthy or sthenic, the latter (evidencing want of power), an asthenic inflam- mation. The redness is doubtless due to the capillary injection of the part; and, as we have already seen that in the repair of wounds capillary injection is a uece'ssary attendant, so the redness of inflam- mation in a wound is simply the result of this carried to excess. The second is clearly connected with the first, indeed, it may be b. Increase of regarded as a result. It is increase of heat in the part; increase of action, as indicated hy excess of vascularity, being generally accom- panied by this symptom. There is reason too for believing that the blood is also overheated. The third is also striking, and is clearly a result of thecapillary injection, to which notice has just been drawn. It is c. Swelling, the stuellinff of the inflamed part, which shows itself either as a simple oedema of the edges of the wound, or ns a more or less general, diffused infiltration of the parts. This swelling is apparently due to blood stasis, and is produced by the passive exudation of the sei’um of the blood into the cellular tissue of the inflamed part, from the stagna- tion of tlie blood in the overloaded capillaries of the injured tissue. The fourth is pain, which symptom varies much as to its inten- d. Pain, sity, and apparently depends a great deal upon the amount of swelling and tension in the inflamed part. In inflammation of the bone, periosteum, or any unresisting fibrous tissue, as the coat of the testis or the sclerotic of the eye, the pain is intense; in rheumatism in which the fibrous structures of the joints are inflamed it is also marked. Probably it is caused by direct pressure on the extremities of the nerves of the swollen tissue. It may be simply an increase of sensibility of the part or may amount to severe agony. We thus have redness, heat, swelling, andy>am, as symptoms of over- action of a part, or of what is called inflammation, and they, one and all, appear to be direct consequences of extreme capillary vascularity of the tissue, whether that be the result of a wound or not. They may manifest themselves in every degree of severity, their extent dependiuo- upon the intensity of the inflammatory action and the nature of the tissues that are involved. When a loose tissue is involved, the redness will be much marked, and the swelling will probably be rapid, but the pain will certainly he slight, as the tension of the part is rarely severe. When the connective tissue situated beneath a dense fascia or skin is involved.