56 ON SEPTICAEMIA. Arrest of secretion. Brain complica- tions. Respiratory complica- tions. Abdominal complica- tions. Joint complica- tions. 'SSB89 IBSl Thermograph of traumatic fever after opera- tion for ruptured periiiseum. Fever at its height on fifth day, when quill sutures were removed, after which there was a sudden fall aud a steady convalescence. Patient let. 46. Fig. 10. When blood poisoning attacks a patient the subject of a wound, whether caused by operation or injury, it is generally to be observed that the secretion of the wound becomes sanious, serous, or foetid ; pro- bably it will be arrested, and 9- the surface will become glazed or glassy or perchance assume a sloughing action. The in- tegument around the wound will often have an erythema- tous blush, or acquire a peculiar leaden, dusky appearance, which is somewhat typical. Union if progressing will cease or dis- union may result. When any internal organ is implicated, special symptoms indicative of disturbance of its functions w'ill be present. When the hrain is involved there will be sleepless- ness or delirium of a low mutter- ing kind, some un- consciousness from which the patient can be roused only to relapse — “ relapsing unconsciousness,’' — and in rare cases acute delirium and mania. When the respi- ratory organs are in- volved— and it may be stated that they are so far more fre- quently than any other — difficulty of breathing, with a harsh dry cough, and perhaps viscid blood-stained sputum, are the prominent symptoms; occasionally pleuritic pains are present, or symptoms of bronchitis, with great dyspnoea. When the abdominal viscera are affected, nausea or sickness is a pro- minent symptom, and pi'ofuse diarrhoea; the latter in some cases appar- ently carries off the poison. When anything like sallowness of the skin or janndice appears, hepatic abscess should be suspected; aud, under these circumstances, there will often be pain in the region of the liver. At the same time the reader must remember that a slight degree of jaundice is often present without hepatic suppuration. The urine is rarely altered either in character or in quantity, although at times it is scanty and dark coloured. When severe or dull pains are e.xperienced in a joint, suppuration should be suspected; and anything like so-called rheumatic pains occurring in a patient with pymmia becomes a source of suspicion; “rheumatic” pains in blood poisoning too often mean joint or bone mischief of a suppurative kind. It is also remarkable how slight the symptoms often are in these cases when severe local disease e.xists. This fact demands that the surgeon should ever be on nnHnmBiHHHHHHii nKRAVAWTVnillHHHHH EiinMciiiuiiiaRsss^ Thermograph of traumatic fever after ovariotomy in a woman rnt. 43, ending in recovery. Temperature never rose above 100.