ERYSIPELAS. 47 tion wound than is the simple form, and it is even found in patients from whom no such history can be obtained It is generally associated with absorbent inflammation and glandular enlargement. The disease appears as a diffused swelling and induration of the Local symp- cellular tissue of the part aflected, the tissues feeling infiltrated and toms, brawny, and the skin tense from over-distension. When sup- puration or sloughing of the cellular tissue has taken place, fluctua- tion or crepitation will be detected or the parts feel boggy. The skin, if not previously inflamed, will now participate in the disease ; it will inflame, ulcerate or slough, to permit the escape of the pent-up pus or sloughing cellular tissue. When resolution takes place at an early period of this afEection, the skin may escape uninjured, but such a result is rare. The constitutional symptoms attending these changes in the cellular Constitu- tissue are always those of great depression. The febrile symptoms will twnal. be of the typhoid type, the pulse feeble from the first although rapid, aud the disposition to sink very marked. Profuse sweating is an early and constant symptom. Delirium also is sometimes present. Visceral complications are, as a rule, the cause of death, the connection between this afifection and pymmia being very close. Phlegmonous erysipelas is a combination of the two former. It is far On more serious thau the simple, and as much so as the cellular inflamma- plilegmouous tion. It is characterised by a diffused inflammation of the skin and ®08ipeas. cellular tissue together, the parts having a strong disposition to sup- purate and slough. Resolution is almost unknown as a termination of the disease, one case differing from another only in the extent of the destruction of tissue with which it is accompanied. It is commonly the result of some punctured wound or injury involving the skin and cellular tissue beneath, and begins locally as a brawny infil- tration of a part, the skin presenting erysipelatous redness, of a Local dusky hue. To the finger the parts will feel more solid, and pit on ss-mptoms. pressure; the boundary between the inflamed and uninflamed skin will be less marked, and outside the limit of the redness the skin wdll feel unnaturally firm, and the cellular tissue beneath as if infiltrated. As the disease progresses, and the cellular tissue beneath the integu- Progress of ment becomes infiltrated with inflammatory products, the skin will be plil^monous made tense, and cease to pit on pressure; uniform hardness of the tissues giving place to a sense of fluctuation, as of fluid, or to a boggy, quaggy, crepitatiug feel of sloughing cellular tissue. If the case be left to nature, the skin will become thin and ulcerate in sioughin^ of parts or slough in masses, to give way to the pent-up and sloughing tissues. “ tissues. Phlyctsonm appear over the dead portions of skin as in other forms of gangrene, while the pus aud sloughs which escape are always foetid. lu bad cases the whole cellular tissue of a limb, w’ith large portions of integument, may die in this tvay; bands of skin, held dowm by fascia, being commonly felt, which, during recovery, will become the centres of cutification. In the ordinary run of cases this diffused infiltration of the cellular tissue is confined by the fascia to the subcutaneous tissue; but in some instances, when the cellular tissue that separates the muscles becomes involved, the case assumes a far more serious aspect, for the sup- puration is then of a burrowing kind, the sloughing more extensive, aud the prospect of recovery, with an useful muscle, becomes very