HYDBOPHOBIA. 75 in the very earliest stage of the disease will have been found. These lyssi are said to show themselves at an earlier period in proportion to the amount of poison deposited in the wound. Marochetti made early incisions through the vesicles, and then cauterised the surface with a red-hot iron, with, he states, invariable success. Pathology.—There are no pathological lesions peculiar to hydro- Pathology, phobia—at least, none such have as yet been described. Mr. Durham, in a case that occurred at Guy’s in 1865, carefully examined the cord, prepared after Dr. L. Clarke’s method, and found extreme congestion of the grey matter of the cord, and numerous minute patches of extravasated blood in different sections. More recently Dr. Benedikt, of Vienna, has made out that in dogs “ the pathological process in this disease consists in acute exudative inflammation, with hyaloid degene- ration, which doubtless arises from the exudative infiltration of the connective tissue of the brain.” (‘Wiener Mediz. Presse,’ June, 1874; ‘ Lond. Med. Kec.,’ Sept. 30, 1874.) Teeatment.—In all cases of bites from dogs or animals in which Treatment, the faintest suspicion of rabies exists, free cauterisation with lunar caustic should be performed. Youatt states that he adopted this practice in upwards of 400 cases, and four times on himself, with complete success, and that in all these there was no doubt as to the dog being mad. With such a result no other caustic need be used; when this is not at hand, any acid, caustic alkali, or cautery, will suffice. When the escharotic cannot be obtained the part may be excised, a ligature being fastened beforehand on the cardiac side of the wound. Some surgeons advise amputation. Mental stimulants, in the way of inspiring hope and removing fear, must be freely administered, aud such geueral treatment ns may be needed. No drug has yet been found that has the least influence on the disease, either in preventing or curing it. Dr. Marochetti’s treat- ment of the lyssi is the only one that can claim any degree of success. How far the constant administration of chloroform would influence the disease is a question that has yet to be put to the proof. To prevent asphyxia from taking place, tracheotomy, as suggested by Dr. Marshall Hall, is a justifiable measure, the operation being based on a good theory, although it has never been performed on the human subject. By it the immediate risk of death from asphy.xia would be rendered impossible, and time given for remedies to act or for the disease to run its course. It seems that six or seven days is the utmost period for the disease to be in existence. If life can be prolonged thus far, the hope of a good result may be entertained. Anything that can tend to prevent death, and keep the patient alive, is useful. Tracheotomy is one of these means, and deserves trial, wine and food being valuable ad j uvauts. When a dog is known to be mad, it ought to be destroyed; but when any one has been bitten by an animal in which there is no evi- dence of madness, it should be kept, although apart from others, and guarded, as time will prove the truth of his condition, and do away with the morbid fear of “ rabies” that may have been excited by the injury. ’’