REFRACTION. 302 Diagnosis by tlie oplitlial- moscope. Portion of image. Measure- ment of de- grees of ametropia by the ophthal- moscope. Oldham’s ophthal- moscope. by the aid of any concave lens be able to read D = 6 at 6 metres, we find the weakest with which D = 6 can still he read. Should he be able only to make out D = 24, D = 12, &c., we must still find the weakest concave lens with which the hest vision is attainable. As in hypermetropia, should there be a difference between the two eyes, we test each eye separately We must be careful to ascertain the loeakest lens with which the best vision for distant letters is attainable, because we wish only to so open out the pencil of parallel rays of light as to allow of their being brought to a focus in the retina of the too long eyeball. If we give too strong a lens our patient will see equally well; but then we have opened out the pencil of parallel rays too much, and he must use his accommodative power in order to overcome the excessive divergence. In the diagnosis and measurement of anomalies of refraction by direct ophthalmoscopic examination we act upon the same principles as in the diagnosis by trial with lenses; with this exception, however, that we use our own eye as a test, instead of the patient’s vision. As stated at p. 294, nothing of the details of the fundus of the emmetropic eye can be clearly made out until we have approached it very near. Now, on tVie contrary, should any object occupying the fundus be clearly seen, whilst we are still separated from the observed eye by a considerable interval, we may be certain that we have to deal with an anomaly of refraction. The question now arises. Is the case one of hypermetropia or myopia ? We answer the question by ascertaining whether the object we see is viewed in an erect or inverted position. If the former, the eye is hypermetropic, if the latter, it is myopic. We can ascertain the position of the image by moving our head from side to side. If the image be erect, it will move in the same, if inverted, in an opposite, direction to the movements of the head. If we wish to ascertain the amount of hypermetropia or myopia present, we take one of the ophthalmoscopes mentioned below; go as close as possible to the patient’s eye, revolve the lens containing discs placed at the back of the instrument until we have ascertained, in hypermetropia, the strongest convex, in myopia, the weakest concave, lens with which we can still see clearly the optic disc and retinal vessels. The number of dioptrics of the strongest convex or weakest concave lens with which the greatest attainable acuteness of vision /or distant letters is still maintained, expresses what is known as the degree of “ ametropia.” Thus, we say that an eye which sees as clearly or more clearly through a convex lens of two dioptrics has a hypermetropia of 2 D, an eye of which the acuteness of vision is most improved by a concave of lens of three dioptrics has a myopia of 3 D, and so on. The same holds good in the measurement of anomalies of refraction by the ophthalmoscope. The strongest convex lens in a case of hyper- metropia, the weakest concave in one of myopia, through which a clear view of the fundus can still be obtained, expresses the degree of “ame- tropia ” present. „ ,• r Two very useful ophthalmoscopes, by means of which anomalies ot re- fraction can not only be diagnosed, but also accurately measured, have been devised, one (Fig. 92) by Mr. Charles J. Oldham, of Brighton {see