332 GLAUCOMA. Diagnosis of glaucoma. Contraction of visual field. Rapid increase of presbyopia. Apparent haziness of lens. Treatment. Iridectomy. most frequently between the ages of fifty and sixty, but occasionally in young adults, or even in children. Glaucoma almost always affects both eyes, not, however, simultaneously, but at more or less con- siderable intervals. In order to diagnose glaucoma we must be well acquainted with the method of ascertaining the tension of the globe, and also with the use of the ophthalmoscope. {See Examination of eye- ball, &c.) We must also remember that the injurious effects of pressure are evidenced earliest in the peripheral portions of the retina, and should therefore very carefully examine the condition of the visual field in all suspected cases. {See Examination of field of vision.) Cases are frequently met with in which great contraction of the visual field has taken place, although central vision is still acute. Another symptom which should lead us to suspect glaucoma is the rapid increase of presbyopia. Patients affected by the simple or chronic forms of the disease are constantly changing their glasses, as they find that those which at first appear to suit become useless in the course of a few months. Apparent haziness of the crystalline lens is a symptom requiring special attention; otherwise the surgeon may fall into the fatal error of mistaking chronic or simple glaucoma for cataract, and allow the disease to continue until sight is irrevocably lost. In such cases ophthalmoscopic examination will most probably show that there is little or no real opacity of the lens, and this, aided by a careful examina- tion of the tension of the globe and the state of the visual field, will prevent so disastrous a mistake. Besides the foregoing we not unfrequently meet with what is known as “ secondary glaucoma,” i.e. glaucoma coming on in the course of some other disease, as corneitis, ulceration of cornea, iritis, &c. Glaucoma occurring in young persons is usually secondary. Tbeatment.—Glaucoma can be remedied by operation alone. And it is our duty to explain to the patient the nature of his case and to urge upon him most strongly the necessity for operative inter- ference. Patients suffering from glaucoma often evince the greatest unwill- ingness to undergo an operation; this unwillingness is explained by the fact that during the remissions of the disease little or no inconvenience is experienced, and, moreover, even at the time that an attack of in- flammation is present the sufferer will be encouraged by the hope that the symptoms will pass off (as they in all probability have done in previous attacks), leaving the eye but little damaged. Nevertheless we must always bear in mind that an operation, to be successful, must be performed early,2.xA must not be satisfied until we have convinced our patient of this. Most patients will readily submit to an operation when one eye has been lost and the disease has commenced in the other. Several operations have been practised for the relief of glaucoma, but iridectomy is that which gives the best results, and is almost universally practised at the present day. Iridectomy, to be effectual, should be performed as early as possible; as a rule, no good is likely to result from the operation in cases where vision has been reduced to bare perception of light; but in acute glaucoma much improvement