LIGATXJEE OF ARTERIES, 479 The operation.—It has been already stated that the application of a ligature to the subclavian in the first part of its course is scarcely a justifiable operation j but when undertaken, the incision on the right side would be similar to that for the innominate ; on the left side it is scarcely practicable on account of the depth and relations of the artery. In the third part of its course the operation shonld be performed as follows (the method being similar for both sides). The patient should be raised on a pillow with his head thrown back and face turned to the opposite side, an assistant drawing the arm down as much as possible to depress the shoulder. An incision three or four inches long should then be made on the upper surface of the middle of the clavicle (Fig. 150) ■, not above the bone, as the external jugular vein might then be , wounded. Some surgeons advise the skin to be drawn down from the neck upon the clavicle, so as to diminish this risk. In this incision the skin with the superficial fascia and platysma will be divided. The deep fascia is then seen with the external jugular vein conrsing over , it. This must be held aside with a retractor. When its division is a necessity, it should be done after the application of two ligatures, one above and another below the line of section. The cervical fascia can then be divided the whole extent of the wound, which must be done with care on a director j and should more room be wanted, a portion of the I sterno-mastoid or trapezius muscle may be divided. The knife is now to be laid aside and the artery looked for in the space exposed, the parts ! being separated by a director or the handle of the scalpel. The vessel will be found just on the outer side of the scalenus anticus muscle (the edge of which can generally be felt) and behind the tubercle on the first rib, a point which can almost always be made out. Several arteries of large size will probably be found crossing this space, as well as many veins. ; The supra-scapular artery and vein will always be seen behind the clavicle. The brachial plexus lies above and behind the subclavian artery, the subclavian vein in front and below. When the vessel is seen or felt, the sheath is to be opened and the aneurism needle passed around it from above downwards, care being taken not to injure the vein or include a nerve. Ligature of the Axillary Artery. This is a rareopei’atiou, although it maybe demanded for some wound of the vessel, or, for aneurism of the brachial. It may be performed in two positions, either immediately below the clavicle, or, in the axilla. The subclaxdcular operation is carried out by an incision made imme- diately below the bone from the coracoid process to its sternal end, divid- ; ing integument and fascia, yet carefully avoiding the cephalic vein that I runs along the anterior border of the deltoid to join the axillary. The f clavicular origin of the pectoral muscle may then be divided, and the |l deep fascia or costo-coracoid membrane covering in the sheaths of the I vessels will be exposed and divided. In this step of the operation, some I of the branches of the thoracic acromial artery will come into view, and » if wounded, must be secured. The coracoid insertion of the pectoralis I minor can also be seen. The fascia covering in the vessels will then 9 be exposed, and on laying it open the greatest care is necessary as the U axillary vein lies immediately beneath it, while above will be found ' the vessel resting on the first intercostal mnscle. The brachial plexus 1 is above and behind. The axillary vein shonld be drawn downwards and i Ligature of first portion of subclavian. Ligature of the third portion of the subclavian. Ligature of the axillary artery. The siibclavicular operation.