28 HEALTHY SORES. I Cellular- membranous specific ulcer. Character of a healthy ulcer. Treatment of healthy ulcers. however, in any part of the hocly. The syphilitic are always surrounded by a dusTcy kind of inflammatory border, and are rarely painful; the non-syphilitic with a pinker blush. The washleather slough and dusky margin clearly indicate the syphilitic sore. It is by no means uncommon to discover in such a sore the specific character of a disease that had been contracted some twenty or more years previously, and that had lain dormant after having manifested its presence by marked symptoms. Indeed, it is from the occurrence of such sores as these that the surgeon enquires whether constitutional syphilis is really ever cured—that is, eradicated—and whether a man once syphilized, as once vaccinated, is not so permanently altered as to show under certain conditions, with comparative certainty, that he is still under the influence of the poison, and that other diseases must for ever after be modified by its existence. Special sores wiU be described with the diseases from which they result. A healthy, healing, cutaneous sore is known by the small, florid, conical granulations that cover its surface, and the healthy creamy pus thrown off. “ In granulations, new substances are formed as if the earth was taken in heaps from one place and laid in another; the thicker and, smaller the heaps the better the granulations” (John Hunter, MS. lect., 1787). The granulations are not so vascular as to bleed, or so sensitive as to cause pain on the slightest touch. The margin is natural, and where the skin and granulations meet, a band of cicatrising tissue is to be seen, assuming, where in union with the skin, a whitish line with a fine covering of epidermis; but where in contact with the granulations a more vascular appearance than at any other part of the sore, the centre of the band being covered with a thin, purplish-blue, semi-transparent film. By the gradual and centripetal cicatrising process of the outer border of the band, and the gradual narrowing of its circle, the sore heals. Treatment.—The surgeon’s sole aim being to guard against anything that can interfere with the progress of repair, the treatment is simple; a piece of wet lint to absorb discharge and protect the surface of the sore from injury being all that is required, the lint being kept moist by a piece of oil silk, gutta percha, or elastic tissue. Where water irritates, oil may be substituted. The surface of the sore should be cleansed by means of a stream of tepid water; sponges should never be used, and cotton wool is the best substitute, as it can be destroyed after use. Where the granulations are disposed to rise too high, dry lint may be applied, and at times a good rub with lunar caustic hastens recovery. Small sores thus treated may be allowed to scab. _ Best is always bene- ficial in aiding repair, but should this be impracticable, a good bandage may be substituted, and a piece of thin sheet-lead bound over the sore outside the dressing will give efficient support. In removing the dressing, care should be taken not to inj ure the band of delicate cicatrising tissue. Accepting this description as that of a healing sore, devia- fromtvrical tions from this type constitute the diflterent forms that have been sore. described. Thus, when the granulations assume a large, pale, elevated, watery appearance, the sore is said to be weak, the granulations^ in popular language being “proud flesh,” the popular word “proud being synonymous with weak. There is power in the sore to granulate, but