OPERATIONS ON THE PALATE. 527 will be advantageous for the patient to wear subsequently a Hainsby truss (Fig. 174) as the steady pressure of the pads has doubtless a good influence in bringing together the bones. Operations for the Operations repair of the fissure have, till recently, been put off till the child was of an a<re to give assistance to the operator. Billroth was the first ^ to operate in infancy, and did so with success on a child, twenty-eight weeks old, in three operations. In 1868, Mr. Thomas Smith in- troduced to the profession a gag (Fig. 197) that holds the jaws open and depresses the tongue, enabling the surgeon, (with the patient under the influence of chloroform,) to undertake the operation at a very early period; indeed, Mr. Smith has quoted cases where he operated at three years of age (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1868; ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1871). It may generally be undertaken at the age of five, in a healthy child, and I have performed it successfully at four years of age. Roux was the first who practised the operation with advantage. History of having in 1819 successfully treated a medical student for cleft palate, operation. Dr, Mason Warren, of Boston, did also much towards encouraging the Fig. 197. T. Smith’s gag. practice; but, in this country, there is no doubt that to Sir W. Fergusson Ferrosson’s is due the credit of having demonstrated the value of the operation method, and of suggesting improvements therein. In his chief paper, pub- lished in 1845 (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’), he showed “ how the levator palati on each side had such free and uncontrolled action that, when- ever excited, it drew the margin of the cleft outwards and upwards, and so tugged upon the stitches put in by the surgeon that ulceration in their sites was a most probable result.” He therefore suggested the division of this muscle in all cases, and that of the palato-pharyn- geus in some. He did this by means of a curved knife (Fig. 198) passed through the fissure, so that its point can be laid on Fio. 198. the tissues immediately above the soft velum, midway be- tween its attachment to the bones and the posterior mar- gin, and about half way be- tween the velum and the lower end of the Eustachian tube. The point is then thrust deep, and carried half an inch or more backwards and forwards so as to cut the levator palati. By these 3^ Fergusson’s knives.