r TTTMOtTRS OF THE JAWS. 541 growth of the opposing jaw as took place in the cases akeady referred to. ' Where the antrum is exposed by exfoliation, much may he done hy the dentist to fill in the gap. A few years ago, Mr. Salter very skilfully exposed, adapted a plate with teeth to the upper jaw of a woman in whom the an- Where terior wall of the antrum, with part of the alveolar process, had exfoli- fistulous ated. At times also, the fistulous opening takes place externally; thus, in remaitK* 1864, I was called on to treat a woman, set. 34, who nine years pre- viously had had extensive necrosis of the upper jaw, and, as a conse- quence, a fistulous opening the size of a sixpence was left below the right eye, communicating directly with the antrum. The soft parts were firmly connected with its margins, and the lower lid drawn down. I raised the integument from the bone, making free subcutaneous incisions, pared the edges of the flaps, and brought them together over ■ the opening in the bone. Good union followed and the deformity was I removed. Tumours of the Jaws. Some of the most remarkable tumours of these bones are due to Tumours of hypertrophy or hyperostosis—the lower jaw with other bones of the j®"'- face and head being generally involved. Mr. Howship’s well-known Hypertrophy, case of disease of the upper jaw, which is noticed every where, is a case 5 in point; so is that of Mr. Bickersteth’s, which was exhibited ‘ f at the Pathological Society in 1866, and which he described with all minuteness in the ‘ Transactions’ of the year. The disease is usually symmetrical, showing itself as a uniform enlargement of the bones involved—the upper jaws projecting as two large globular masses. Cystic disease of the antrum. Diseases of This is a special affection and often connected with irregular denti- tion j though how often has not yet been determined. : Suppuration of the cavity is often due, doubtless, to an extension of Suppuration I inflammation from the teeth and may arise from a blow or some cavity. 1 other cause. It is known by severe local pain, extending over the face I and forehead, local swelling, and extreme tenderness, the constitutional ; ! symptoms being often very severe. When pus has formed there may j t be rigors, and the abscess may burst either into the nose or into the !' I) mouth beneath the cheek—the antrum, under these circumstances, |, i becoming much distended. In rare cases it may make its way through i I the cheek, and in one where this occimred, an opening into the antrum ! I the size of a fourpeuny piece w'as subsequently found, on making an ' I incision down in the bone beneath the cheek. In neglected instances, I I the floor of the orbit may be displaced and vision interfered with or ! ( even destroyed. {Vide Salter, ‘ Med.-Cbir. Ti-ans.,’ 1863.) ■ Tbeatment.—When suppuration has been made out, the antrum Treatment of jl [ should be opened, and if its anterior wall be expanded, an opening suppuration : I may also be made into it without fear at the most projecting point with ® a trocar or other sharp instrument. The relief given by these means i is very signal. In one case of a lady that came under my care some > years ago, it was instantaneous and permanent. MTten diseased teeth I are present in the bone, they should all be tested by a sharp blow, and the most tender removed. A jet of ether spray on each tooth will prove an admirable test, the cold searching out the slightest i disease. It is never advisable to remove sound teeth unless some I evidence exists of their alveoli being diseased. In aU these cases t the cavity must be kept clean by syringing. A chronic abscess in the