MORTIFICATION. 39 more of it, however, should he sacrificed than is absolutely neces- sary, and to ensure this object the flaps to cover the end of the stump may he cut of any shape. Thus, in gangrene of the leg, it is better to amputate below the knee with any form of flap that can he made of sufficient size to cover in the end of the stump than at the joint, and it is far better to amputate at the joint than above it. When, however, an injured limb is attacked with gangrene which is rapidly spreading, the difficulties are great. To remove it at once, as soon as the action has declared itself, would he to take away what often might be saved, or to do that which will not arrest the disease. To defer the removal, too often diminishes the prospects of recovery; and, subse- quently the extension of the mischief, renders the amputation a more for- midable one, or precludes the possibility of its performance. It is wise, however, to amputate when the gangrene is extending, owing to the infil- tration into the healthy tissues of the decomposing fluids from the parts. In a case of compound fracture, which is so bad as to suggest the necessity of primary amputation but in which the surgeon has heen desirous, if possible, of saving the limb, the first onset of an inflammatory action that assumes a gangrenous form should be met by amputation j while in a case less severe, where the injured limb has a good prospect of being made an useful one, an attack of inflammatory gangrene need not necessarily lead to its loss. Where the gangrene is due to the injury, it will probably be limited, and may so terminate that a good limb can subsequently be secured. Where it is due to constitutional and not local causes, am- putation of the limb will not arrest it; for the gangrenous action will in all probability attack the stump, and continue till it finds a limit or destroys life. If the patient lives, moreover, a line of demarcation will occur, and then amputation may be performed with a better prospect of success, whereas, if the patient dies, the surgeon will not have helped him to his end. Gangrene from a local traumatic cause may be treated successfully by amputation, but a spreading gangrene the result of a general or constitutional cause, cannot he thus dealt with. In offering this recommendation it is right to add that it is against what is called authority. Erichsen says, “ In traumatic gangrene, amputation should be performed as soon as the gangrene has mani- fested itself, without waiting for the line of demarcation.” Spence writes, “ In spreading gangrene, amputate without waiting for a line of demarcation.” Pirrie says, “ As the only chance of life, however slender, lies in immediate amputation, it ought to be performed at once, and high above the part affected.” Brodie and Guthrie might be quoted for a like purpose, and H. Coote, in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ ed. 2, says, “ the indications for immediate amputation are so clear and gene- rally acknowledged, “ that he who shrinks from the responsibility of the operation stands exposed to just reproof.” But these authors do not seem sufficiently to recognise a difference between the gangrene due directly to the injury and involving the injured part, and the rapidly spreading gangrene which begins at the seat of injury and travels upwards; the former being directly due to the^ accident and generally confined to its seat; the latter, although indirectly due to the accident, being set up by some inherent weakness in the general power, which the local injury renders manifest. e. Wlieu spreading. Question of amputation. Cases where amputation is useless and otherwise. Opinions quoted.