TUMOURS. 97 one time appear at a point where it is merely the expression ^ of an I excessive development of the tissue normally existing at this point, at another time at a place where this tissue is not in existence, and where its development is abnormal and strictly pathological. Let us take an example: a tumour may be formed of cartilage. The cartilaginous tumour is homologous, not because it is formed of cartilage hut only if it springs from cartilage, if in this place there is cartilage already. Thus, a costal cartilage may be the point of origin of an enormous cartilaginous tumour: this is homology. But it is also possible for a cartilaginous tumour to he developed in the testis, which contains no cartilage, where this tissue should not he met with; here the same product constitutes an heterology.” Homology and heterology have, therefore, very difPerent meanings as On the terms used by Virchow and other writers. In Virchow’s language a tumour homologyand is homologous when it corresponds in structure with the tissue in which hsterology. it grows; and heterologous when it deviates from that structure. A tumour that is homologous in one position may be heterologous in another. On the other hand, in the French and other schools a tumour is homologous when built up of elements naturally existing in some tissue of the body; heterologous when composed of elements that deviate from the natural structures, these definitions having nothing whatever to do with the position of the tumour. In Virchow’s language the terms are relative; in that of other pathologists they have a definite clinical meaning of no slight importance, for homology means innocence and heterology malignancy in a tumour. Virchow, however, admits that Virchow’s his heterologous tumours are suspicious, although everg heterologous tumour is not of a malignant nature. “ There are a great many such tumours borne without any ill consequences, and w'hose pro- perties are quite similar to those of which the nature is benign. Malignancy follows a certain scale among heterologous tumours, from species to species; and we are able to show how it is manifested more and moi’e strongly—for the most part following two directions. In the first place, heterology is distinguished according to the degree which it attains. The tissues of connective substance have a much nearer relationship existing among themselves than they have with epithelial tissues or with the specific animal tissues. When, therefore, a cartilaginous or bony tumour is developed in connective tissue, or even a mucous tumour in adipose tissue, that is not nearly so hetero- logous as w’hen an epidermoid tumour is formed in connective tissue, or a tumour of cylindrical epithelium in a lymphatic gland. A car- tilaginous tumour which is developed in connective tissue, or in the tissue of hone, is indeed heterologous, hut it is not so to the same degree as an epithelial tumour or a muscular tumour would he in the same place. But a still more important circumstance is this, that tumours engender certain liquid substances wdiich w’e speak of under the name of juice. This is the humour or juice of the tumour of which much has been said.” “ This parenchymatous juice is sometimes related to the cells, some- times to the intercellular substance; and accordingly it appears under the form of fluid either intracellular or intercellular, contained in the cells or interposed among them in a liquid state like serosity. Whoever a tumour contains much juice, it gives evidence of more troublesome properties, and it possesses to a high degree the property VOL. I.