290 NEUROMA. Symptoms. Treatment. Ij |! Nerve stretching. Painful subcutaneous tumours. Structure. tissue being infiltrated among the nerve-fibres. The pneumo-gastric nerve bad a tumour the size of an egg upon it. Dr. Smith, of Dublin, in his unrivalled monograph on the subject, has recorded an instance in which many hundreds of such tumours existed ; other similar cases might be quoted. These tumours are not painful, as a rule; indeed, in the most marked examples of this disease, in which the tumours are multiple, they are often not recognisable till after death. Pain, however, is some- times present, aggravated on pressure, and apparently depending much upon the mode in which the nerve is involved. This affection is not to be confounded with the painful subcutaneous tumour. When the ends of a divided nerve become bulbous from fibrinous effusion, what is called a traumatic neuroma is formed. When this becomes involved in the cicatrix of a stump, it is an exceedingly painful affection, and is thought by some surgeons to be more common after flap amputations than others. It must be remembered, however, that all nerve trunks become more or less bulbous after amputation. Treatment.—There is no reason why neuromata should be re- moved or touched, unless they are large or painful. When from these causes they require treatment, the operation should be performed, care being observed to dissect the tumour from the nerve, when it is possible, which, however, can rarely be done. Many cases are on record in which large neuromata have been excised with the nerve trunk and a good recovery has followed, even with a restoration of the functions of the divided nerve. Traumatic neuromata should always be excised when causing much pain, but, when associated with symptoms of spinal irritation, which may possibly be due to a neuritis travelling up the affected nerve trunk, the forcible stretching of the nerve has been re- commended by Billroth and Nussbaum, and practised by others; but the cases known to me in which it has been tried do not justify me in recommending the practice. It consists in the free exposure of the nerve trunk by incision and the application of forcible traction to it both proximally and distally. The traction has been great, as one author, in describing the operation as applied to the sciatic nerve, says that “ the limb of the patient should be lifted from the table by the sciatic nerve.” Painful subcutaneous tumours. These tumours are clinically to be separated from the neuromata which have just been considered, although they have often doubtless been confused with them. They are not, however, nerve tumours. They were first described by Wood, in the ‘ Edinburgh Medical Journal’ for 1812. They are usually single and situated in the subcutaneous tissue, and are rarely larger than a small bean. They are encysted, and give to the finger a hard elastic touch. To the eye they appear bright yellowish or a pearly white, and are made up of fibro-cellular or fibrous tissue. Intense painfulness is their clinical peculiarity, although they have no such nerve connection as will explain their excessive sensi- bility. The pain, says Sir J. Paget, is of the nature of that morbid state of nerve force which we call neuralgia. The painful character of these tumours is very peculiar. It is not constant, nor does it appear to depend upon any injury, and sometimes comes on without any assignable cause or after only the slightest touch, the pain beginning in the tumour, gradually increasing in in-