182 ELEPHANTIASIS. Treutmeut. Example. venous system, and inflammatory. Dr. Caruocliau, of New York, believes it to be associ- ated with an enlarge- ment of the arterial trunks of the part, and upon this theory based his practice of tying the inain artery of the limb, thereby starving the dis- ease. Mr. Day, in the paper already alluded to, regards it as consecu- tive to malarious fever, while Mr. Dalton (‘ Lan- cet,’ 1846) looks upon it as a constitutional disease, like the leprosy. From the many cases I have seen I do not believe in the theory of its being due to dis- ease of the venous sys- tem,becanse pathological evidence is wanting to support the view, yet I am disposed to regard it as a true hypertrophy, and in this I am supported by the clinical fact that in some cases, though not in all, where the main ai’tery of the limb is ligatured, and the vascular supply to the disease cut off, a recovery takes place. Carnochan, of New York, was the first surgeon to perform this operation (in January, 1851), and the success lie met with, as published in a memoir on the subject in 1858, induced me to follow his example in 1865. My case in all its details was published in the ‘ Med.-Cbir. Trans.,’ 1866, and the benefit of the operation was most striking. It occurred in the case of a Welsh girl, aet. 25 j the disease had been of two years’ standing, and was spreading. The thigh of the affected limb (Fig. 57) measured twenty-seven inches round, and the leg nearly twenty-three, the affected leg being nine inches in circum- ference larger than the sound one, and the thigh seven. Five weeks after the ligature of the external iliac artery the calf of the affected limb measured seven inches less than it did at the time of operation, and when she left the hospital the limb appeared as in Fig 58. The rapid disappearance of the thickened tissue was very remarkable. Since the operation, the girl has gone on well, is companion to a lady, and can now walk ten or twelve miles. The limb becomes slightly cedematous only on over-exertion. I have performed the same operation three times since, but not with similar success. I ligatured the femoral artery of a man who had the whole limb involved, the thigh being only slightly so, and, for a time everything promised to be as successful as in the case previously recorded; but an attack of erythema came on, followed by renewed swelling of the extremity, which never disappeared. In this case the size of the superficial femoral artery was extraordinary, the loop of the Fig. 57. Case of elepliantiasis Arabum before and after tbe application of a ligature to tbe femoral artery