78 SYPHILIS. Early opeuing of abscesses. Olanders in the horse. Equinia mitis. Definition. Mode of its introduction, Characters. be kept clean by washing, a stream of water passed through the nos- tril, followed by some antiseptic lotion, such as that of iodine, carbolic acid, Condy’s fluid, or creosote; nitrate of silver solution, tannic acid, and others more stimulating, being at times valuable. Where the throat is affected, it should be sponged with some nitro-muriatic acid lotion, and a gargle of chlorate of potash used. Abscesses and softened tubercles should be opened early and freely, poultices and fomentations being applied to the parts. When they are very numerous, this practice is, however, difficult to follow. Perfect cleanliness should, of course, be observed. Glanders in the horse, as Mr. Youatt tells us, in his book on that animal, is chiefly to be recognised by the persistent discharge from the nostril and the singular hardness of the submaxillary glands, which become adherent to the bone, from the effusion of inflammatory lymph around them. These glands are not very large except at the com- mencement of the disease, neither are they hot nor tender. When any doubt exists as to the nature of the disease, a condemned horse or ass would be inoculated with the nasal secretion of the sus- pected animal, and if the disease be genuine it will be reproduced in a few days. Equinia mitis is a local pustular disease affecting the hands and body of those who dress the heels of horses affected with what Jenner has described as the “grease”—an inflammation and swelling of the heels of the horse, attended with the secretion of a thin acrid matter. It is not unlike ecthyma or vaccinia, but more angry; the pustules are about the size of a sixpence; they suppurate on the third day, dry up about the tenth or twelfth, forming scabs, which leave cicatrices. The disease runs its course, and is to be managed by rest and clean- liness. SYPHILIS. Syphilis is a constitutional disease, the result of a specific animal poison introduced from without. Like other specific animal poisons, it is, as a rule, propagated by some local inoculation; but, unlike all others, it has, by its subtle influence through the parents, the power of affecting the unborn foetus and the newly born child. No other blood poison appears to possess this power, at any rate to the same degree, and it is well to bear this important point of difference in mind, for, in all other respects there is a strong analogy between all. The poison once introduced into the system, either by inheritance— inherited syphilis—or by some local inoculation—acquired syphilis— manifests its presence in its own peculiar way, by the appearance of a somew'hat irregular although characteristic chain of symptoms. These are uncertain in the period of their manifestation after the inocu- lation, in the order of their appearance, and in their form and effects, yet they possess their own special features. They are local and general. They run their course, yet do not eliminate the poison. They may disappear for a time to reappear in some other form. The poison may lie dormant for years, and in healthy subjects show no signs of its presence till some weakening influence has depressed the powers of its victim, and given rise to a local affection in which the practised eye will read with more or less certainty the modifying influence of an antecedent syphilitic affection. The poison has been