CATARACT. 365 Forms of Cataract. There are two principal forms of cataract: Forms of (1) The cortical or soft cataract. catiu-uet. (2) The nuclear or hard cataract. In the first form the cortical substance of the lens is primarily aft’ected, the nucleus afterwards becoming opaque, the whole being soft, or even fluid. In the second the nucleus of the lens first becomes hard, yellowish, and opaque, the cortical substance being subsequently affected. The cortical cataract is met with as an idiopathic disease in childhood Cortical and early adult life, and as the result of injury at all ages. cataract. There are several varieties of cortical cataract. (a) Zonular or lamellar cataract is either congenital or commences Zonular soon after birth ; it is characterised by an opacity of circular form and cataract, well-defined outline, situated in the cortical substance of the lens, but at some distance from its surface ; the margin, nucleus, and superficial layers of the lens are transparent. {b) Ordinary congenital cataract is a bluish-white opacity of the whole lens. (c) Traumatic cataract is an opacity of the lens often accompanied Traumatic by swelling, and caused by rupture of its capsule from injury, and cataract, the subsequent action of the aqueous humour upon its substance. {d) Posterior polar cataract, an opacity situated at the posterior Posterior pole of the lens; and— (e) Entirely fluid or diffluent cataract are caused by changes in the lens, secondary to inflammation of adjacent parts. cataract. The variety of cataract met with in diabetes is composed principally of soft material j but if the patient be advanced in years there, is usually a hard nucleus. Nuclear cataract occurs in persons who have passed the middle Nuclear period of life, and is characterised by the presence of a hard yellowish cataract, central portion or nucleus of varying size and density; the nucleus is surrounded by more or less soft cortical substance, and is occasionally of a greenish, or almost black colour, giving rise to what is known as Black green or black cataract. cataract. Diagnosis of cataract.—The existence of cataract is easily ascer- Diagnosis of tained by oblique illumination, the pupil having been dilated with cataract, atropine previous to making the examination. Tueatment.—The treatment of cataract is entirely operative, no Treatment, kind of medication being of the least use. Our object in performing an operation is to open a path for rays of light to pass to the retina. This can be attained in one of two ways, the method adopted depending on the kind of opacity present. (1) In cases (as lamellar cataract) where the bulk of the lens is clear, the opacity being situated in the axis of the normal pupil, very useful vision is procured by making an artificial pupil, opposite a trans- parent portion of the lens"(see Artificial Pupil). (2) When the whole lens is opaque, its entire removal must be accomplished. Three varieties of operation are performed to secure the removal of Varieties of the whole lens: operatious.