SHOCK AND COLLAPSE. 251 dull, with vision imperfect; and consciousness may be lost in very vari- able degrees,—the patient may possibly he roused^ yet, as a rule, he requires rousing to prove the existence of consciousness. At other times, the intellect remains quite clear. These are briefly the signs of collapse, or shock, the result of injury. Its signs. They are to be found in variable degrees after most accidents, and are by no means usually fatal, unless the injury itself is fatal. Of course, if the shock from the injury is very great, the heart may cease to beat and the lungs to breathe, collapse passing, more or less slowly, into death; but more usually, after a variable period, the heart’s action gradually improves, the respiratory act becomes more regular, and perfect colour returns to the bloodless lips and skin, warmth re-appears on the surface of the body, and consciousness becomes more manifest; these symptoms indicate what is known as reaction, and, when they Reactiou. are excessive febrile symptoms may appear. It should be noted, that vomiting is often the first indication of reaction in general collapse, as it is often in that of head injuries. Should the nature of the acci- dent be such that hmmorrhage complicates the case, the collapse will be more lasting, the shock of the accident passing into collapse from haemorrhage; under such circumstances a fatal result is very likely to ensue (the amount of bleeding and its rapidity determining the result), for it should be known, that haemorrhage by itself is enough to produce collapse, or syncope, and this, added to the shock of the injury, is often more than enough to destroy life. In ab- dominal injuries, this combination is well seen, the haemorrhage from a lacerated liver or other organ, as a rule, appearing with the first manifestations of reaction from the shock of the accident, and thereby proving fatal. The longer the reaction is delayed, the more grave is the aspect of Delayed the case; not unfrequently relapses appear, signs of reaction and of collapse alternating in variable degree, till one or the other aserts itself in recovery or in death. In rare cases, even from the shock of a slight accident, reaction is Mauia on followed by exceptional symptoms; thus, I had a man under care who was admitted with a slight concussion of the brain, in whom reaction was attended with an acute attack of maniacal excitement which left him after two days to pass on to a steady convalescence. A wom.m with a similar inj ury attended with a scalp wound, had a like attack, which lasted a fortnight and then subsided without any bad results. I have recorded also, in another page, a case of general tetanic spasm Tetanus, which showed itself in the reaction after a case of spinal injury. More commonly, however, reaction is attended with what Travers has de- scribed as “ prostration with excitement,” a state bordering on, and often passing into, that known as delirium tremens. Under some conditions of the system shock and collapse are more Conditions readily produced than at others; thus, very young and very old favorable subjects, those enfeebled from age or other cause, mental or physical, collaose are particularly apt to die of shock, after injury or operation. When hones are involved in the injury andsymptoms of “shock” appear after Albuminuria a day or two’s satisfactory progress. Professor Nussbaum believes them and shock to be due to fat embolism as evidenced by severe dyspnoea, oedema of ,• lungs, and sudden death. Patients with bad kidneys, also, are very liable to sufi'er from shock, and to succumb to any operation, however