TUMOURS OP THE ORBIT. 382 Treatment. Ivory e.\ostosis. Spongy exostosis. Practure of orbital wall during removal. Nifivus. Treatment. Cysts. Nodes. Bony tumours are generally met with as hard, more or less circum- scribed outgrowths of varying size, growing either from the hone itself or from the periosteum. They affect the orbit alone, or may project into neighbouring cavities, a fact which should be borne in mind when attempting their removal. Treatment.—Should exostosis of the orbit give rise to inconve- nience, it may be removed by operation. An incision should be made, parallel with the margin of the orbit, over tbe most prominent part of the growth, which, having been thoroughly exposed, should be removed in any way which may appear the most effectual, the greatest care being taken to guard the eyeball from injury, and, if possible, to preserve the continuity of the lachrymal canaliculi and position of the tear puncta. In the removal of the hard ivory exostosis the greatest difficulty will be experienced, some hours’ patient work with chisel and mallet being occasionally required. The surgeon who under- takes the removal of such a growth should be aware of the extreme difficulty to be surmounted, and arm himself with a corresponding amount of patience and perseverance before commencing the operation. The soft, spongy growths are much more easily removed; the tumour, having been thoroughly exposed, can usually be broken off with strong forceps. Should the growth be on the inner side of the orbit, and much force be used in its removal, the cavity of the nose may be opened and the operator may be rather alarmed at seeing large quantities of air blown out with the blood. This accident, however, need occasion no uneasiness, as it makes no difference to the progress of the case; nevertheless, care should always be taken not to fracture the orbital walls; should the fracture take place in the roof, instead of the inner wall, the consequences would be most disastrous, as the cavity of the cranium would be opened. Nsevi are not uncommonly met with in or ajaout the orbit, situated generally near its margin, or in the eyelids, but sometimes growing deeply in the orbital cavity. They present much the same characters as in other situations, being soft to the touch, of a bluish colour, and becoming harder and more tense during crying or straining. Treatment.—Subcutaneous ligature is most applicable in some cases, but care should be taken to prevent as much as possible subsequent cicatrisation, in consequence of the deformity it may produce in or about the eyelids. Other cases may be treated by setting up adhesive inflammation within the growth, by the use of the galvanic cautery, or by passing a number of small setons soaked in perchloride of iron through its substance. The setons should be left in until they have set up a slight amount of suppuration. Injection of the growth with perchloride of iron, solution of tannin, or chloride of zinc, may also be tried, but the greatest caution is necessary, as the operation has occa- sionally been followed by tbe sudden death of the patient. Qygtg Various kinds of cysts are met with in and about the orbit, tbe most common being the congenital dermoid cyst (see Operations on the Eyelids). Simple cysts, probably the remains of haemorrhages, and cysts connected with the lachrymal gland, are also met with. Hydatids have occasionally been seen. Nodes.—Periosteal nodes are not unfrequently met with; they occur as hard and sometimes painful tumours, usually situated some- where about the margin of the orbit, but sometimes deep in its