LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 467 Richet, “Aueurism,” in ‘Diet, de M6d. et de Cbir. Prat.,’ Tol. ii.—Leon de Fort, 'Diction. Encyclopddique des Sciences Medicates,’1866.—Rroca, ‘Traits des Aneu- rysines,’ lS56.—Lisfranc, ‘ Des diifgrens M6thodes, &c., pour I’Obliteration des Artferes,’ IHSi.—Scarpj, ‘On Aneurism,’ Wisiiart’s Translation.—‘On Aneurism,’ .—Tnfnell, ‘On Treatment of Aneurism by Compression,’ 1851.—‘System of Surgery,’ 2nd ed., \W10.—Hodgson, ‘On Arteries and Veins,’ 1815.—Dr. Norris, ‘ American Journal.’—Dr. Stephen Smith, Ditto.—Erichsen’s Cooper’s ‘ Surgical Die.,’ \%&\.— Wardrop, ‘Cyclop, of Surgery.’—iSyaie, ‘Observ. in Clinical Surgery,’ 1861.— Fergusson, Sir W., ‘ Med.-Cbir. Trans,’ vol. xl.—Dr. Jones, ‘ On HsemorrUage.’—Drvani ‘Lancet,’April 4tb, 1874. THE LIGATUEE OF AETEEIES.—SPECIAL AHEUEISMS, &c. John Bell wrote seventy years ago “ that the right way of securing Importance a great artery is perhaps one of the most important points in prac- anatomical tical surgeryand to do this with nicety and precision requires a sounder and more accurate knowledge of anatomy than any other operation. “ Before undertaking to tie an artery, the surgeon ought to know its general course and its relations, and especially the prominent part or parts which are to guide him to the position of the vessel; he ought to have familiarised himself by frequent dissection with the thickness of the parts covering it, and their appearance as far as that can he judged of in the dead body; and finally, he ought to know the usual position of its principal branches, and the anastomosis by which the circulation may he expected to be restored. It is advisable also to be aware of the leading peculiarities in course, relations, bifurcation, &c., which the operator may perhaps meet with, and for which he ought to be pre- pared.” (‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. iii, p. 545.) In fact, without ana- tomical knowledge, any attempt to tie the trunk of a large artery must he surrounded with difficulties and fraught with danger, whilst with it, the operation becomes in the hands of an experienced surgeon an act of precision and apparent simplicity. In a former chapter, the mode of applying a ligature to a divided artery after operation, was discussed and illustrated; and in the present, attention will be directed to the application of a ligature to an artery in continuity as in the operation for aueurism, or the arrest of hajmorrhage from a punctured wound. To accomplish this, the surgeon has to go through several stages of thought as well as of action. He has first of all to make out with precision the exact course of the General rules vessel to be ligatured—which may he done by the artificial linear to be guides with which he ought to be familiar, the muscular guides to its position, and the recollection of the anatomical relations of the vessel. He has, secondly, to decide on the point at tohich the ligature should be applied. When for a wound in the vessel, this point is already settled, it having been laid down as a rule that, whenever possible, a wounded artery is to be exposed at the seat of injury, and two ligatures applied, one above and below the seat of lesion. When for aneurism, the question is more open, the ‘ point for liga- Point of ture ’ having to be determined by the surgeon. In deciding this selection, important question, it should be remembered, that if the ligature be applied too near the aneurism, there is a risk of the ligatured vessel partaking of the disease for which the operation is required; and if