APPECTI02STS OP THE MIDDLE EAR. 398 bled by touching, or firm and solid with a glancing surface, grape-like or ■ ragged, so small that their presence can only be determined by a care- ful inspection of the deeper parts, or so large that they protrude from the ^ meatus. Their positions are as varied as their forms, as they arise from any part of the meatus or tympanic cavity or membrane, the different; authorities not being agreed as to which are the most frequent sites.. Happily their diagnosis and treatment are the same, the former being ■ their capability of displacement by the sound, and the latter their ■ removal either by caustics, astringents, the forceps, scissors, knife,, Treatment, hooks, the galvanic cautery, or Wilde’s snare. If the polypus is i sensitive, which is not usually the case, and the patient will not. suffer the removal by instruments, the application of undiluted. liquor plumbi, or alum, or tannin powder, regularly for a time,, care being taken that each new application meets with a clean. surface, will suflSce; but the treatment above all others is the imme- diate removal by instruments as far as possible, and the application thereafter to the root of some caustic, such as acetic, nitric, or chromic acid, by means of a glass rod or a piece of wood. The instruments employed for the purpose are numerous, those which I find most useful. being Wilde’s snare, Durham’s forceps, and Hinton’s forceps. Wilde’s i snare is especially valuable, as by its means you are capable of reducing ; a polypus to a considerable extent without endangering any of the ■ structures near it, while the others have the advantage of easier • adaptation to an excrescence which is difficult of reaching. Should 1 the polypus be very small, or so situated that you cannot use a cutting : or tearing instrument, the application of a thin layer of nitrate of: silver, obtained by heating a crystal of the caustic over the flame of a i spirit lamp and placing a probe or piece of stout silver wire against the : heated crystal, will be found useful in cauterising it, and at the same i time limiting the application to the desired spot, which is not so easy ■ when solutions are employed. After tne removal of the polypus the) disease, of which the growth was only a symptom, must be attended to. Affections of Affections of the Middle Ear. the middle Injuries to the membrana tympani.—Eupture of a healthy tympanic: membrane is usually caused by the introductiou of some sharp instru- ■ ment through the external meatus, the efforts to extract some foreign Injury to tlie body from that canal, or by a sudden concussion over the auricle, as by tympanic a blow from the hand, the unexpected explosion of artillery, or such like, membrane, diagnosis of rupture in such is easily ascertained, but medico-legal 1 questions sometimes arise in w'hich it is necessary to determine whether t a rupture was caused by a blow on the ear or was present before the i blow was given, or whether the membrane was in such an unhealthy r condition that it would be easily injured. The rupture of a healthy r membrane caused by a blow is usually a long gaping tear,—the gaping { depending on the action of the radiating fibres of the middle layer,— - the edges of which have a coating of blood upon them. The rest of / the membrane is healthy, free of thickening, opacities, cretaceous or r other deposits, though possibly hyperaemic. On passing a current of f air through the Eustachian you hear a continuous broad soft sound, . unlike the broken hiss from the perforation of a diseased membrane, . unless some time has elapsed since the rupture was made, in which i case infiltration and exudation may have occurred, giving the appear- ■ Rupture of membrane.