522 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE, Tumours of ttie tongue. Glossitis. Abscess of tongue. Treatment. Aphtlious inflammation. equally good results. Iii a gentleman, mt. 20, who consulted me some years ago for enlargement of the tongue of twelve years’ standing, attended with protrusion and all its evils, iodism induced hy ten-graiu doses of the iodide of potassium was followed within a week hy the speedy disappearance of the affection, though at the time death appeared imminent from the excessive swelling of the organ caused by the drug. In other cases the removal of a wedge-shaped piece from the centre of the organ is the best practice; while to cut off the projecting portion is far^ less satisfactory. The application of ligatures to the lingual ar- teries to starve the disease might possibly be of service in such cases. The tongue may likewise be the subject of ichthyosis. Sir James Paget, Mr. Hulke (‘Trans. Clin. Soc.,’ vols. ii and iii), and Mr. Morris (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874) have recorded examples of the affection. Many have come under my notice. They have a disposition to pass into cancer, and the case from which Fig. 195 was taken was of this nature. When cancer attacks the ichthyotic tongue, it is generally of a virulent form, and any operation for its relief is too often followed by a rapid recurrence of the disease, either in the part or in the cervical glands. An ichthyotic tongue, therefore, should be at once removed as soon as the slightest evidence appears of its being the seat of cancer. Cases are also on record of fatty tumours, of warty growths, and congenital pedunculated growths,and adenoid tumour, and hydatid of the tongue. Glossitis. Inflammation of the tongue when deep seated and general is a grave affection, as'the swelling may be so sudden and severe as to threaten life by suffocation. In the sudden enlargements from the salivation of I mercury or iodism, as in a case already given, these symptoms are at times seen, but, as a rule, they subside rapidly under local fomentation | on the removal of their cause. If suffocation be threatened by 1 the cedematous enlargement of the organ, free vertical incisions might be required, though I have not yet seen a case where such a practice was ] demanded. Inflammation ending in local suppuration is far more j common; and, when an abscess has formed, the sooner it is opened the j better. If it be situated at the root of the tongue, both deglutition and , speaking will be interfered with; indeed, the abscess may mechanically I so press upon the epiglottis as to close the larnyx, and threaten life. Local inflammation of the tongue may arise without any known cause, or from the contact of some irritating substance, such as that of tobacco. It may also follow a wound. Teeatment.—Fomentations to the part frequently applied, and an incision into the abscess as soon as it can be made out, are the best local means. Tonics after the use of a mild purge are also useful. When the swelling becomes dangerous by its pressure, the oedema may be dispersed by an incision or puncture, but the surgeon need be in no hurry to adopt this practice ; it is rarely needed. My late colleague, Mr. Poland, had a case in which incisions were followed by very serious haemorrhage. The application of leeches to the organ when projecting has been followed by rapid relief. Aphthous inflammation of the tongue, and superficial ulceration are not uncommon. It occurs in children chiefly from alimentary irritation, and is curable by the chlorate of potash internally in five- or ten-grain doses, like aphthous stomatitis.