DELIRITJM TREMENS. 247 of cases have been recorded in which success has followed the practice. In 1845 Mr. Key amputated a leg on account of tetanus, which had Case, appeared six days after an unreduced dislocation of the astragalus j the symptoms disappeared at once after the operation. On dissecting the foot the posterior tibial nerve was found to have been put violently on the stretch by the projecting astragalus. In some cases, soothing applications, such ns opium, may be applied to the wound, and in all, perfect cleanliness should be enforced. One other means of cure remains to be noticed, which has reference to the mode of death in this disease. It has been shomi that in the larger proportion of cases—in all the acute—death is caused by suffo- cation from spasm of the laryngeal muscles. It is also fairly recognised that this disease runs its course, and that the most our science can ac- complish is to maintain life and ward off death. To this end the operation of tracheotomy seems to be of value, for with a tube in the Tracheotomy, trachea, death by laryngeal spasm cannot take place, and a better prospect of recovery is consequently given. I have employed this practice in one acute case, in which the Calabar beau was likewise given, and the patient sank from exhaustion, free from spasm ; and there seems good reason to believe, that if I had per- formed the operation in the case I recorded in the early part of this chapter, life would have been saved. This matter, however, requires grave consideration, and the practice is not to be rashly followed. Morgan, ‘On Tetanus,’ 1833.—Curling, ‘On Tetanus.’—Poland, ‘Guy’s Hospital Reports,’ 1857.—Hr. Ogle, ‘Brit, and For. Med. Review,’ 1868—Dr. Dickson, ‘Med.- Cliir. Trans.,’ vol. vii.—Dr. L. Clarke, Ibid., vol. xlviii.—Dr. Dickinson, Ibid., vol. li.— Demme, ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ vol. 112.—Thamliayn, 0., Ibid.—‘Year-Book,’ Sydenbam Society,’ 1862-64, &c.—“ Puerperal Tetanus,” ‘Dublin Quart. Jouru.,’ 1865 ; ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1865.—Billroth, ‘Pathol. Chirurtt.,’ 1868. DELIRIUM TREMENS. It often falls to the surgeon to treat cases of pure delirium tremens uncomplicated with any surgical malady, and it is well, therefore, to refer to this subject by itself. There are other cases, perhaps, more aptly described by the term “ traumatic delirium,” Traumatic in which the nervous symptoms are developed as a consequence of an d®'b:ium. iujury received. In both classes the symptoms are essentially the same, and the treatment required is similar, still it is right to bear in mind tbe difference in causation, as in the one we have to deal with a nervous disease in an intemperate person, and in tbe other, with the same symptoms as an incident in a surgical case. In simple delirium tremens, to use the familiar term, we have to deal with the case of a person who has indulged for an uncertain time in injurious doses of alcoholic liquors. It may be that a young man, after a prolonged debauch, has an attack of the “ horrors,” but the symptoms more frequently occur in those who have for a long period accustomed themselves to the excessive use of beer or spirits, even without amounting to drunkenness, and who at length are subjected to some shock or depressing influence. Inasmuch as the habits which have been mentioned as superinducing this disease are opposed to the simplest laws of health, it follows that they cannot be indulged in with impunity for long, and, consequently, we And the subjects of it, as a rule, of feeble powers of resistance, and often with diseased viscera. Such