364 CATARACT. outwards. Thus a small piece of iris is enclosed by a V-sbaped incision, 1, the apex of the V being upwards. The small portion of iris contracts up, and a somewhat triangular pupil is left. The eye should be bound up as usual. I a A. Pupil after incision. B. Pupil after excision. C. Pupil after ligature. D. Iridectomy for glaucoma, &c. Pig. 102. B C ' Iiidodyalisis. _ (2) Tearing away the iris from its insertion (Iridodyalisis).—An incision having been made through the cornea on the side opposite to j| that on which the iris is to be removed, a pair of iris forceps should be passed through the wound and across the anterior chamber, the iris !i seized close to its greater circumference, and torn forcibly away from J its insertion; the instrument should then be carefully withdrawn and :l the eye bound up. If necessary, the whole iris may be removed in ' this vvay. This operation is applicable to cases of dense corneal opacity 1 (leucoma), occupying the whole of its central part, some transparent cornea being left 'at the margin. '! Iridectomy (2) Excision—Iridectomy for artificial pupil.—An incision should be j for artificial made of the requisite size, through some part of the sclero-corneal I pupil. margin, the iris forceps introduced through the wound, the ends of ji their branches passed fairly up to the margin of the pupil, the I; iris seized and drawn out through the wound, and a small portion ' removed with scissors. The curette should then be passed between the 1' lips of the wound so as to push back any portion of iris that may have become entangled in it; a pupil resembling Fig. 102 B should he formed. : Iridesis. (4) By ligature (Iridodesis, or Iridesis).—An incision should be made with a broad needle near the margin of the cornea, a small noose of silk laid upon the surface of the eyeball so as to encircle the incision ; an iris hook or canular forceps then passed through the noose and wound, and the iris drawn gently out; an assistant with two pairs of broad-ended forceps should seize each end of the noose and firmly ligature the , included portion of iris; the ligature will drop off in the course of a few days, a pupil resembling in shape Fig. 102 C being left. THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. Cataract. By cataract we understand an opacity of the crystalline lens. Causes of The causes of this opacity are somewhat obscure, but it probably cataract. depends on impairment of nutrition of the lens consequent on senile decay or constitutional conditions {e.g. diabetes). It also occurs in connection with inflammatory changes iu adjacent parts—the choroid, ciliary body, vitreous, and iris; is met with as a congenital defect, and very frequently results from injury.