LIGATURE OP TIBIAL ARTERIES. 489 the parts, and close the wound, covering the limb with cotton wool and raising it on a pillow. Should the vein be wounded by the needle, the artery must not be tied at the point corresponding to the wound but about an inch higher or lower, for “ the thread would be left in the vein to act as a seton, and phlebitis could hardly fail to ensue, and would most likely prove fatal.” (Holmes.) The wound in the vein should he closed by a fine ligature. A ligature may separate from the femoral artery in nine or ten, or not even for thirty days, a wide difference existing on this point. An analysis of cases decisively proving that no general rule can be laid down as to when its separation may be expected. Ligature of the Popliteal Artery. I hardly know under what circumstances the popliteal artery may require the application of a ligature, except for a wound; as for rupture of an artery, or for aneurism the operation is as inapplicable as it would be unsuccessful. Mr. Poland has pointed out how the posterior ligament of the knee-joint is frequently involved in the laceration of the vessel. Some years ago I was called upon to cut down upon a large needle that had perforated the popliteal space, and become lost in its tissues; all movements of the joint being im- possible by the pricking pain of its presence. I discovered the foreign body lying obliquely across the popliteal artery with its point fixed in the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The artery was exposed without difficulty by an incision made along the outer edge of the semi- membranous muscle, the leg being extended. The vein is more super- ficial than the artery and can always be found to its outer side above, the nerve is still more superficial, and above still further out, but it lies over the artery at the back of the knee and to its inner side where covered by gastrocnemius. Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery. Guthrie brought the weight of his great authority to support the Fig. 157. Ligature of posterior tibial artery. recognised practice of tying a wounded vessel at the wounded part, Method to be pursued when vein wounded. Ligature of popliteal. Ligature of tlie posterior tibial. Guthrie’s practice.