TUMOURS. 130 Removed by caustics. Caustic arrows. Strong acids and caustic paste. Tell’s paste. Canquoin’s paste. Other caustic applications. Chloride of r.inc paste in epithelial cancer. or without the cautery; hut this part of the subject will receive atten- tiou in other pages. When a cancerous tumour cannot be excised or the cutting operation is rejected, it may be removed by caustics; but such a method is more painful, slower, and not so successful as excision. When employed as a substitute for it, it is, like all substitutes, only second best; yet it is, however, often applicable where excision is not. The French surgeons do this by inserting around aud into the tumour, thin conical flat wedges of chloride of zinc made into a hard mass with flour or plaster of Paris, holes being made into the tissue by the scalpel for the introduction of these fl&ches. Maisonneuve is the chief practitioner of this school. These “ caustic arrows ” of M. Maisonneuve are composed of wedge- shaped pieces cut from a thin cake of paste made by mixing one part of the chloride of zinc and three parts of flour with as much water as may be found necessary. These pieces or arrows are dried, and may be kept in a bottle for a long time without injury. In England this plan finds little favour. The following method is more general:—In a tumour that is not ulcerated let the skin he destroyed by the application of some strong sulphuric or nitric acid, and in this slough let one or more incisions he made; into which let a paste of chloride of zinc and flour mixed with the extracts of the San- guinaria Canadensis, and stramonium, be introduced, fresh incisions being made through the thiekness of the slough thus formed every other day, and fresh paste inserted. By this means the whole tumour may be destroyed or enucleated. The paste is a modification of that intro- duced into London by Dr. Fell of the United States, and is, without doubt, the best working caustic paste we possess. The following is the mode of its preparation : Boil down to a liquid extract some decoction of the Sauguinaria Canadensis, and, with an ounce of the extract dis- solve a similar quantity of the chloride of zinc. Mix this with two ounces of the extract of stramonium, aud the soft paste is ready for use. Canquoin’s paste is composed of chloride of zinc and flour in equal parts, a few drops of water being necessary to make it into a paste. A second form is probably better:—Chloride of zinc one part, muriate of antimony one part, flour one part and a half, water a few drops. This paste is of the consistence of soft wax. At the Middlesex Hospital they use a paste made by mixing chloride of zinc and boiled starch with laudanum, till it reaches the consistence of honey. When the tumour is ulcerating or open, no necessity exists for the primary application of a liquid caustic. The paste may be applied direetly to the part, and fastened on by cotton wool and strapping; the thickness of half an inch applied for twelve hours usually produces a slough an inch deep. Some prefer a solution of chloride of zinc alone inserted on cotton wool. M. Eivallie uses nitric acid applied on lint or asbestos; Vel- peau, sulphuric acid on saft'ron. By some, the Vienna paste is preferred. Arsenic as a caustic has had its day, aud is dangerous and less eflective than zinc. For cutaneous epithelial cancer the caustic treatment is the best. The chloride of zinc made into a paste with flour, or with sauguinaria, may be used, if preferred. The potassa fusa is likewise a useful form.