224 ENCEPHALITIS. Encephalic inflammation Symptoms of acute encephalitis. Symptoms of chronic encephalitis. because sbould the local affection be so limited in its nature as to be capable of repair, the projecting mass will slough naturally after a time, and cicatrisation will follow; but all interference on the part of the surgeon does harm. The best treatment is at first to apply a piece of lint to the part, and, at a later stage, to keep the hernia dry by dusting it with oxide of zinc or powdered alum. Excision and the application of caustics or pressure, do not appear to be satisfactory forms of treat- ment. The experience of army surgeons during the American war confirms these observations. INFLAMMATION OF THE CRANIAL BONES, BRAIN, AND MEMBRANES, THE RESULT OF AN INJURY TO THE HEAD. In all cases of injury to the head, simple or severe—attended or un- attended by fracture;—of concussion or compression;—of injury to the dura mater or the brain, inflammation of the bones, of the brain, or of its membranes, is very liable to arise, and when it does, it is a very grave complication. It is this fact which makes all injuries of the head, even simple contusions of the bone, sources of danger, because inflammation, commencing in the bone, too frequently spreads inwards to the mem- branes of the brain and to the brain itself, and thus destroys life. The free communication between the pericranium and the dura mater, by means of the blood-vessels of the diploe, is a probable explanation of this occurrence in simple scalp and bone contusions. In injuries to the bones of the skull, and to the brain or its membranes, the liability to encephalic inflammation appears to be greatly determined by the seve- rity of the accident. In the present chapter, traumatic encephalitis, acute and chronic, as the result of brain shocks, whether with or without a fracture, will claim attention. In acute encephalitis the symptoms generally appear on the second or third day following the injury, pain in the head being the most prominent symptom. This pain may be local or diffused, and is generally accompanied with intolerance of light and contracted pupils, intolerance of sound, and symptoms of febrility. As the disease pro- gresses, wakefulness, restlessness, delirium, and convulsions will pro- bably follow; and the patient will pass more or less rapidly into a comatose condition owing to compression of the brain by effusion, when a speedy death will ensue. The effusion takes place sometimes into the ventricles, but more often on the surface or the base of the brain. In chronic encephalitis the symptoms may show themselves soon after the injury, but, as a rule, they do not appear for weeks, or even for months. They are most insidious in their nature; they may begin by want of sleep, with an irritability of brain and inaptitude for any bodily exertion; but headache of a constant exhausting kind, aggra- vated by mental or physical exertion, is a most prominent symptom. As the disease progresses the patient gradually becomes emaciated and exhausted, and, towards the close of the case epileptiform convulsions, local paralysis and coma supervene.