INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. 497 firm and tight-skinned, not yielding easily to pressure, and not pitting very deeply. By almost this state alone the disease can sometimes be recognised. The constitutional symptoms associated with this local affection vary from some slight febrile condition, to those met with -in acute gout. Complete recovery may take place in this, as in other forms of phlebitis—the veins becoming pervious in some cases and obstructed in others; the limb reassuming its healthy condition or becoming per- manently enlarged, cumbrous, and heavy. The risks of embolism are also the same. Treatment.—Nothing special can be recommended, as the so-called gout remedies do not appear to have much influence on the local dis- ease. Rest, elevation of the limb, lead lotion to the inflamed vein when superficial, and fomentations when deep, are the chief points to be attended to in the local treatment; as well as a lower diet, absten- tion from stimulants, and saline drinks in general. When feebleness exists the liquor ammonia in doses of five to ten drops with bark is an excellent remedy, but at others, quinine is called for. There is, howevei’, another form of phlebitis that must be mentioned, Diffuse or and which is by far the most serious, viz., the tmhealthy diffuse or sup- suppunitive purative phlebitis. It is an affection of the cellular tissue around the pWetitis. veins, these veins themselves being secondarily involved. It is a species of erysijjelatous inflammation of a low type, and it is only found in the feeble and cachectic. It comes after a severe injury to, or operation on, bone, or otherwise ; after a slight contusion or a severe wound ; it may supervene on the puncture, division, or ligature of a vein, or, chronic suppurative disease more particularly of the bones of the cranium. It occurs also in the puerperal state. Depending upon a vitiated condition Depends ou of the blood, “ we are able to appreciate how it is that the many different forms of phlebitis may follow various dissimilar injuries, and recon- ' cile the frequency of their occurrence after operations involving the venous system. The dangers are not to be looked for when the general condition of the system of the individual is good, and when the walls of the vessels are in a healthy state, but they may be anticipated in enfeebled and broken-down constitutions, more particularly when the coats of the vessels are abnormally changed. Upon such a class of persons operative procedure should, therefore, if possible, be avoided.” (Dr. S. W. Gross, 1867.) The disease shows itself ns a purulent infiltration of the cellular tissue Local surrounding the vein, with a thickening and softening of the coats of symptoms, the vein itself. As the disease progresses, abscesses form around the vein, whilst the circulation through it is arrested by the formation of coagula in one spot, and a sloughing abscess in another. In super- ficial veins, such as in the leg, all these changes can be well observed, but in the deep they are difficult to diagnose. In the superficial, the external signs of inflammation are well marked, local redness and brawniness of skin around a dilated, tbickened, and tortuous vein being the chief symptoms. As the disease progresses, local abscesses appear in the vein itself, which yield blood and pus on being opened, these contents being, doubtless, broken-down coagula. The constitutional symptoms vary with the extent and severity of Constitu- the disease; marked depression of the general powers always being tional present, while rigors not only usher in the attack, but attend its VOL. I. 32