OPHTHALMIA. 311 nient containing 2 grs. of yellow oxide of mercury to 3j of lard or Yellow oxide vaseline, to be applied to the inner surface of the lower lid at bed- time. Either of these remedies will soon cause the phlyctenulm to disappear. The disease, as affecting the conjunctiva covering the cornea, will be spoken of under diseases of that structure. Tonics should be given if required. Granular ophthalmia.—This disease occurs at all ages, and is very Granular common amongst the lower classes, especially the Irish; it is highly °P* ‘ contagious. Granular ophthalmia is often very prevalent where large numbers of persons are crowded together in workhouses, parish schools, barracks, &c. It would appear that in those who have lived for a cousidei’able time under unfavorable hygienic conditions, a peculiar granular state of the palpebral conjunctiva becomes developed. Persons thus affected are said to be predisposed to granular ophthalmia. The predisposed eyelid is characteiased by the existence of small pale Predisposed spherical bodies, situated in the structure of the conjunctiva; the eyelid, little bodies much resemble and are known as sago grains; they are most constantly found upon the lower lid near the outer cauthus. This predisposed or granular condition of the eyelids may remain stationary for an unlimited time without giving rise to inconvenience; but on the other hand, attacks of inflanimation are ever liable to be set up, giving rise to the development of granular ophthalmia as we (see it in practice. We meet with three principal forms of granular ophthalmia, which may be distinguished from each other by the nature of the I granulations present. , One characterised by the predominance of the sago grains already I alluded to, around which iniiammation has been set up, is known as I follicular granulation. i Another form, characterised by the predominance of hypertrophied Follicular I papillas, by which the sago grains if they exist are obscured, is known granulations. I as papillary granulation. A third form, characterised by a mixture of Papillary I follicular granulations and hypertrophied papilhn, is known as mixed granulations, j granulation ; this is the most severe form of the three. Mixed < In old cases, and especially those that have been treated by strong granulation. I caustics, the conjunctiva may be found converted into a mass of rough I harsh cicatrices, and its secreting power destroyed, the condition known I as “xerophthalmia” being developed. Xeroph- , Granulations in active granular ophthalmia, unlike the sago grains r which characterise the predisposed lid, are always found most de- I yeloped on the conjunctiva covering the attached border of the tarsal > cartilage of the upper lid. Their appearance is more or less altered 1 by treatment; they are accompanied by thick yellow discharge, and 1 there may be more or less severe intolerance of light. SequelcB of granular ophthalmia.—The cornea may become more or Sequel®, less opaque and vascular, especially at its upper part; the condition is known as “ pannus,” and is caused by constant irritation of the Pannus. cornea by the rough surface of the lid. The conjunctiva may be destroyed to a greater or less degree. Destruction extensive cicatrices being formed, which, by their contraction, cause ofconjunc- shrinking of the membrane and distortion of the lids, giving rise to entropion and narrowing of the palpebral aperture. The hair bulbs Entropion, may become displaced, causing the eyelashes to be misdirected—