435 ANEURISM. Fig MrtcDougal’s disinfecting powder; but if the odour is not very offen- sive, simple oakum surrounding the part may be sufficient. When the line of demarcation has formed and the gangrenous part can be removed by amputation, such an operation may be performed, but the surgeon should always be cautious in interfering with these oases. He should at the fame time take every precaution that any necessary or desirable operation is not unduly postponed. ANEURISM. An aneurism is a fusiform dilatation of, or a sacculated tumour com- Definition, municating with, the canal of an artery, and is formed more or less from its walls. When all the coats are involved in the sacculated dilatation it has been the custom to describe it as being true; but as Varieties. false when the two inner coats have given way and the external or cellular alone remains. I agree with Holmes, that it is impossible clinically to perceive any difference between true and false aneurisms at the time they generally come under observation, inasmuch as the true become false as they grow, and the false are by far the more common. I hold, moreover, with Moxon, that pathologically, “ when an aneurism 1 has reached any size, and often before it has well started, the several coats of the vessel have lost by inffammation their distinctive character, land that the sooner the division of aneurisms into varieties by the supposed behaviour of the several coats becomes purely a matter of histoi’y the better.” When the distension of a vessel involves its whole calibre, a fusiform or tubular aneurism or aueurismal dilatation is said to exist, whe- ther the enlargement be or be not due to au inffammatory disease of the arterial coats. What is described as a diffused, spurious, or consecutive aneurism is where the sac of the laneurism is not formed by anj'' of the arterial icoats, but by the muscles and condensed cellular tissue of the part into which the extravasated blood has been effused from a ruptured aneu- u’ism or a ruptured artery; although these terms (Should not be applied to cases in which there is diffused extravasation of blood, r A dissecting aneurism is one in which the tinner coat is separated from the middle, or, 4 where blood is extravasated into the thickness Wof the middle coat itself or between the middle >; and external coats, the blood re-entering the ^(Cavity of the artery at some distant spot. The taorta is the part usually affected, and even its 4whole length may be involved. An excellent example of this affection has been recorded by Dr. Fagge (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. lii). These (teases, however, rarely come under the hands of the surgeon. To •show what an aneurism may do, the following figure (Fig. 12S) is •given. It was taken from a drawing in Guy’s Hospital Museum. ■<1 he aneurism of the innomiuata has involved the left carotid and root ♦>f the subclavian, a second aneurism of the left carotid existing above. A _ ^ ^ Pathology of Aneurism. Fusiform. Difluseil. Dissecting Sacculated traumatic aneurism. Drawing 44'®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus. Mr. Poland’s case. A low form of inflammation of the arterial walls is without aneurisni.