267 INTEA-SPINAL INFLAMMATION, ETC. is, therefore, difficult. When the motor power has been lost from spinal mischief, the best test is galvanism. A healthy muscle supplied from a healthy nerve centre will always contract on the application of Galvanic the galvanic current. When the nerve centre is so diseased as to test, cause paralysis, the galvanic current produces no movement—no con- traction. This test is beyond the patient’s control, and cannot be resisted; it is consequently valuable. In interpreting these symptoms, more particularly in a railway case. Caution in or in any where the question of damages is involved, it is most im- interpreting portant for the surgeon to separate the symptoms of which the patient complains—the subjective, from those he can himself perceive—the Subjective objective. Let him doubt and cross-examine in every way upon each and objective of the former to test their accuracy. He may rely, however, upon the latter, and any positive opinion ought to be based upon these alone. There always hangs a suspicion over the former because self-interest points to making the worst of them. All the symptoms, taken as a whole, undoubtedly indicate a chronic or subacute inflammatory change of nerve-tissue, an inflammation of the membranes or of the cord. When they appear as a consequence of Myelitis, a general concussion of the spine, the cord is probably the seat of mis- chief, its delicate structure being more liable to injury than the tougher membranes, and, consequently, to secondary changes. WHien gpinal they follow some local injury, such as a twist, blow, or forcible bending meningitis, of the back with laceration of ligaments, the disease in the cord probably is secondary to disease in the membranes, the inflammation of the latter being due to the extension of inflammatory action from the injured part inwards. “ Inflammation of the membmnes of the cord, as of the brain, is a disease not idiopathic, but proceeding from some cause without.” (Wilks.) But, wherever this commences it is pro- gressive, and, in the end, involves all the tissues in its destructive changes. The pathological changes themselves are tolerably definite. In the Pathological cord they put on the appearance of red softening in recent disease, changes, and of white in chronic. The parts are soft and pulpy, the micro- scope showing them to contain granule-corpuscles and elements of the inflammatory process. The white matter of the cord will appear at times sound, while the grey substance is soft. The disease may he local or more general. In concussion, the latter is the more common condition. When it is in the cervical region, death is rapid, when in the lower dorsal, life may be prolonged for some time. This fact is well illustrated in fracture aud dislocation of the spine. Ieeatment.—In all cases of concussion of the spine, simple or Treatment, severe, absolute rest in the horizontal posture is most essential, and, in Importance mild cases, this is probably the only treatment called for; the symptoms, of rest, by the observance of this rule, gradually disappear, and the health is restored. The prone position in more severe cases is generally to be preferred to the supine, but the best guide in this matter is the ease which the patient experiences. The surgeon, however, must enforce quiet for many days after the disappearance of all symptoms, even in the mildest cases, on account of the primary danger of intra- spinal inflammation; and the period of rest to be enforced must be in proportion to the severity of the symptoms. In cases of railway con-