ON INFLAMMATION. 15 become developed. As the blood subsequently gets cooler, so, more and more, do they decline.” The average temperature of the healthy human body according to Average Jiij-gensen (Leipsig, 1873) is 98-9° F. or 37‘2° C., but the range between, temperature. 97 and 99, is quite consistent with health. A febrile condition arises from an increase of temperature accompanied by more or less constitutional disturbance. It seems from Dr. Montgomery’s observations, made for Mr. Simon, Excess of that “ febrile excesses of bodily temperature range perhaps to ten temperature, degrees above the normal heat of the blood; the ‘ crisis ’ of a febrile state consists in a rapid and generally continuous reduction, the ‘ lysis ’ in a slow and generally discontinuous reduction, of this abnormal tem- perature.” With respect to the causes of this greater heat of blood, Its causes, it is probable that the fever originates in the tissues themselves, and is a disorder of protoplasm; the results of inquiry showing “that either continuously during the intensity of feverishness, or else more abruptly when feverishness begins to subside, there can commonly be traced in the excretions an excess, more or less considerable, of those nitroge- nous, sulphurised and phospborised products which emanate from textural and humoral waste; that this increased elimination is observed even when ingestion has been reduced to a minimum ; and that febrile excretions do, therefore, as a rule, undoubtedly attest an increased devitalisation of bodily material.” The febrile process is then clearly a disorder of nutrition, in which in man the exchange of nitrogen exceeds the normal expenditure by nearly three quarters, and in which there is likewise an excessive discharge of carbonic acid. The discharge of nitrogen is evidently due to the disintegration of tissue or possibly of blood. This fact explains the rapid waste of body which takes place in fever. The blood coagulates with what is generally de- scribed as a “ bufly coat,” and it seems highly probable that, under these circumstances, it contains more than its normal complement of Excess of fibrin. There is good reason also to believe that this “ bufly coat ” is due fibrin, to the fact that the blood-corpuscles subside in the liquor sanguinis dur- ing coagulation, leaving the upper portion of the clot colourless. What this increase of fibrin in the blood in inflammation means is a question that remains to be decided. Some pathologists believe that the blood is excellent in proportion as it is fibriniferous; that solidifying fibrin is almost incipient tissue; that the fibrinous crust, as drawn in inflammation, is the sign of its being specially adapted to the purpose of additional growth; while Simon, with others, holds “ that the blood yields more fibrin, not in proportion as it is ripe and perfect, but rather in proportion to quite opposite con- ditions ; that an increased yield of fibrin portrays not perfection, but post perfection in the blood; that it corresponds not to the rise, but to the decline of albuminous material; that the relations are not with repair, but with waste; that its significance is that of something in- termediate between life and excretion; that the fibriniferousness of the blood is undiminished, probably even increased by bleeding; that it is greatly developed during starvation, during violent fatigue, during diseases essentially anaemic; that its increase, under these circumstances of exhaustion, weakness and inanition, is to the full as great as its increase during inflammation.” “ These latter views seem to be most in accord with truth and with