32 SCORBUTIC ULCERS. Paget’s de- scription of cold ulcers. Treatment of cold ulcers. Busk’s scorbutic ulcer. Pathology of scurvy. Character of the scorbutic ulcer. Sir J. Paget describes cold ulcers :—“They are like small inflamma- tory ulcers, occurring spontaneously in the extremities, especially at the ends of the fingers or toes, or at the roots of the nails. In some cases they are preceded hy severe pain and small gangrenous spots. They are, in many respects, like ulcerated chilblains, but they occur without any exposure to intense cold in patients whose feet and hands are commonly, or even habitually, hut little warmer than the atmosphere they live in. Such patients are among those who say they are never M’^arm, and the skin of their extremities, unless artificially heated, is to the touch like the surface of a cold-blooded animal. With this defect, which is common in women, there is a small feeble pulse, a dull or half livid tint in the parts which in healthy people are ruddy, a weak diges- tion, constipated bowels, and scanty menstruation. “ The cure of the ulcers and prevention of their recurrence lie in the remedy of these defects. Many tonic medicines may he useful, but the most so is iron; with it pui’gatives are generally necessary, e.g. small doses of mercury and aloes or of sulphate of magnesia. Full diet also is required, exercise in the fresh air, very warm clothing, especially of the lower half of the body, and warm bathing; dry applications, or lotion of sulphate of zinc or copper, are the best local means, and the part must be kept warm ; healing is always tardy at a low temperature.” AUied to cold ulcers are those formed on fingers or other parts which have been deprived of their nerve supply by some injury. Scorbutic Ulcer.—In Sir J. Paget’s able article in ‘ Holmes’s System ’ oecurs the follow'ing description of the scorbutic ulcer by Mr. Busk:—“ Although scurvy in itself cannot be said to be attended with any peculiar form of ulceration, ulcers or sores of any kind already existing from other causes assume, in consequence of this scorbutic taint, a more or less peculiar character, and, w'hen thus modified, have been usually ^termed ‘ scorbutie ulcers.’ “ Scurvy essentially eonsists in an alteration in the constitution of the blood, which leads to the effusion into the various tissues of a fibri- nous exudation, usually deeply coloured, and which has on that account been commonly regarded as a simple coagulum. That this effusion, however, can scarcely be regarded in this light, is proved by several considerations, but more especially by the circumstance that it is from the first solid and capable of becoming imperfectly organised; that is to say, it is after a time permeated by newly-formed vascular channels. It is the presence of this effusion which causes the spongy swelling of the gums, the tumefaction and induration of the intermuscular tissue, the so-termed scorbutic nodes, and which, when poured out on the surface, or in the substance of the corium, constitutes the vibices and petechiae so characteristic of the disease. It is the effusion also of the same semi- plastic material on the free surface of sores or ulcers which gives them the peculiar aspect termed scorbutic.’’ “ Ulcers of this kind are distinguished by their livid colour and irregular tumid border, around which no trace of cicatrisation is evi- dent, whilst the surface of the sore is covered with a spongy dark- coloured, strongly adherent, foetid crust, whose removal is attended with free bleeding, and is followed by a rapid reproduction of the same material. This crust, in' bad cases, as remarked by Lind, attains to a ‘ monstrous size,’ and constitutes what has been appropriately termed by sailors ‘ bullock’s liver.’ ”