385 STJPPtrUATION OF XIIE EYEBALL. Now, however, the difEerence becomes manifest; the growth, instead Diagnosis, of increasing, destroying the cornea, and projecting from the eyeball, commences to shrink, and with it the eyeball, which becomes soft, and is at length reduced to a small irregular mass. The growth of strumous deposit may become arrested at any time, and the shrinking of the eyeball commence; in this, again, it differs from glioma. Treatment.—Should there be much pain, the eyeball must be re- Treatment, moved, otherwise tonics and good generous diet will suffice. Inflammation and Suppuration of the Eyeball (Ophthalmitis). Ophthalmitis is usually the result of injuries, especially of those com- Ophthal- plicated by the lodgment of a foreign body within the glohe; it unfortunately not uufrequently follows operations for cataract, and is occasionally met with during erysipelas, pyaemia, scarlet fever, &c., and sometimes in women after confinement, especially if the strength is lowered by over-lactation. The disease may begin in any of the struc- tures of the eyeball. Should it commence in the cornea and iris, the former will become cloudy, and soon abscesses will form in its substance, the iris likewise becoming discoloured and covered with pus. The sup- puration may stop short here, the cornea and iris being alone destroyed, and the eyeball left with some perception of light {see Suppura- tion of Cornea and Iris). Should the disease, however, commence in the deeper structures of the eyeball, rapid impairment of vision will take place, all perception of light being lost in perhaps a few hours. If the pupil be clear, pus may be seen behind it, but in most cases all appears dark; the movements of the eyeball are much impaired, and the lids and conjunctiva considerably swollen. As the disease advances the eyeball becomes enlarged and its tension increased, and if left to itself will rupture and discharge its contents much to the Bupturc of patient’s relief. The globe afterwards shrinks to a small button-like stump. Pain is very severe in many cases, but occasionally is alto- gether wanting. Suppuration of the eyeball rarely sets up sympa- thetic changes in the fellow eye. Treatment.—This depends upon the cause of the disease, and whether Treatment, one or both eyes are affected. Should the inflammation depend upon the lodgment of a foreign body, this should be removed without any Removal of reference to its position or the state of vision; if the eye have still foreign body, good perception of light it will certainly be destroyed, and whatever difficulties the surgeon may eueounter he cannot possibly make matters worse, and he should not hesitate an instant, or he will lose his chance of preserving any sight that may be left. Any foreign body having been removed, the surgeon’s next care should be to relieve pain, and, if pos- sible, check the progress of the inflammation. These indications are best carried out by the application of leeches (if the patient he strong, and can bear bloodletting), by opium inter- nally, and by the constant use of sedative fomentations; the best being Fomenta- the Fotus Belladonnaj (made by dissolving a drachm of extract of hella- tions. donna in a pint of warm water) mixed with an equal quantity of Fotus f Papaveris (made by boiling an ounce of poppy-heads in a pint of water) j 3a piece of rag or lint soaked in this mixture as hot as it can be borne should be kept constantly applied to the affected eye. Poultices ' may also be employed. Most patients will require the administra- b Aon of a fair amount of stimulant, good food, with iron and quinine. I VOL. I. 25