159 CHELOID TUMOUKS. case I have fairly indicated the points upon which a successful opera- tion is to hinge:—Free but deliberate division of the cicatrix and subcutaneous tissue; extension from the first during the healing pro- cess, by some fixed mechanical appliance; and skin transplantation when the surface of the sore has. assumed a healthy granulating surface; the surgeon, where he can, partially detaching a piece of integument from one side and connecting it with the opposite, in order to divide the wound, and thus increase its skin margin for granulation. Where a bend in a joint exists this practice is still more valuable. After the operation the wound should he dressed with oiled lint and covered with cotton-wool, as in a burn. Fig. 41 illus- trates a simple method of applying extension of the arm after the division of an axillary cicatrix of great size, and Fig. 42 illustrates the effects of a burn upon the neck. In deformities affecting the jaw, in which immobility of the bone has been produced, Esmarch and Rizzoli have proposed the division of the bone at the fixed side and the excision of a small wedge of bone, with a view of making a false joint. The operation is a sound one, and has been accomplished successfully by Mr. C. Heath and others. In suitable cases it should be repeated. Ulcerating cicatrices are not uncommon, for “new cutis and new formed granulations are neither so strong, nor have they the living principle so active in them as the old cutis ” (John Hunter, 1787), and an old scar may break up and become the seat of an indolent sore when its possessor has been weakened by any fever or exhausting process. I have seen this repeatedly occur in cicatrices received in infancy of adults as they become old or feeble. In one case the cause of the scar was a burn, in another an injury, in a third an operation, but in all, the scars were alike, and they underwent the same degenerating process. These sores require to be treated by rest and local stimulants, the patient receiving tonics and good food to improve the weakened powers. In one case I transplanted with complete success. These “ cicatricial sores ” are, however, always obstinate, those over the ends of bones being unusually stubborn. Warty and cheloid scars are classed together, because it is diffi- cult to distinguish the indurated, lumpy, warty scar from the true cheloid. The former, however, appears directly after the wound has healed, and is clearly connected with the healing process, while the latter attacks any scar at any period of its existence. The thickened warty scar appears as an induration of the whole cicatrix and is often associated with heat and irritation. It is best treated by local stimulants, such as iodine or blistering fluid—the object being to break up, by some local inflammatory process, the lowly organised fibrous production. Cheloid tumours grow as indurated smooth tubercles, at first having a red or pinkish colour, but as they increase becoming pale. They are at times painful, or, at least, irritable, and rarely attain a large size. They had better be left alone, for they are apt to return in the cicatrix formed after their removal. Cheloid tumours generally grow from cicatrices. These cheloid tumours are known as those of Alibert, to distinguish them from those described by Dr. Thomas Addison, who in 1854 (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’) described another form of cheloid which he calls the “ true cheloid,” the induration beginning in the skin and Points to be observed in operation. Section of jaw in deformities. Ulceration of cicatrices. Warty and cheloid scars. On cheloid tumours.