194 DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. Cysts may become calcareous. Inflammation of thyroid. Acute hypertrophy of thyroid. Example. Required tracheotomy. Thyroidal tumours. iutroduction of the instrument. As soon as the trocar is felt to pierce the cyst-wall it should be withdrawn, and thecamila passed further in by means of a blunt-pointed key. The fluid having been withdrawn through the canula, a solution of the perchloride of iron (two drachms of the salt to an ounce of water) is injected through the canula by means of a syringe. The plug is re-inserted, and the canula secured in position by a strip of plaster. The injection of iron is repeated at in- vals of two or three days, until suppuration is established. When this point is reached the tube is withdrawn, poultices are applied, and the case treated as a chronic abscess. Where the tumour consists of more than one cyst, it may be necessary to make a second or a third punc- ture ; but it frequently happens that other cysts can be opened through the cyst originally punctured.” Some cysts become calcareous, and shonld be treated by excision. This practice is only, however, to be entertained when the cyst causes symptoms wdiich threaten life. In Guy’s Hosp. Museum there is a preparation of a calcareous cyst with an intra-cystic growth. Acute infl.ammation of the thyroid gland is doubtless a rare affection. I have never seen such a case. Holmes Coote records one in ‘Holmes’s System.’ Suppuration of a cyst in the gland after surgical interference is more common. Acute hypertrophy may appear and produce dangerous, if not fatal symptoms. Dr. Risdon Bennett, in his interesting ‘ Lumleian Lectures for 1871,’ has recorded such an instance, which I had the advantage of seeing, in consultation with him and Mr. Jackson, of Highbury. It was in a young man, set. 19, who, three months before, became the subject of paroxysmal attacks of asthmatic dyspnoea, associated at times with a wheezing or whistling respiration, and some general en- largement of the base of the neck. Three days before his death this difficulty became extreme, the paroxysms became more frequent and severe, and, on the day of his death a severe paroxysm took place, which passed on to a forced and heaving respiration, beyond anything I had ever before witnessed, and speedy death resulted. I performed tracheotomy upon the patient, with the slender hope that some light might be thrown upon the nature of the case to guide us in its treat- ment, if not to give relief, but in doing so, what was probable before became evident then, viz.—that the obstruction was below. I had no per- forated instrument with me long enough to force beyond the point of obstruction except a female catheter, which struck against some solid body that prevented its progress. After death the thyroid body was found to be much enlarged, and mainly below the sternum and along the sides of the trachea. The trachea below my opening was flattened laterally to within half an inch of the bifurcation; and was also twisted to the left, being surrounded by the greatly enlarged and firm lateral lobe of the thyroid. The structure of this eulai’ged gland was clearly that of hypertrophy, not of cystic or other apparent disease. As an example of acute rapid hypertrophy of the thyroid, the case, says Dr. Bennett, “ points to the propriety of regai-ding any acute enlargement of this gland in young people with more anxiety than we are pei’haps accustomed to do,” particularly, it should be added, when the lobes of the gland pass down behind the sternum. Thyroidal tumours, doubtless, exist, although they are uot common; these may be adenoid and innocent, or cancerous growths.