INJURIES OP THE ABDOMEN. 600 Effects of contusion in 71 cnses. Passing collapse in 44. Peritonitis in 10. Ruptured viscus in 17. Typical exnniple of peritonitis after blow. Remarks on the case ami treatment adopted. Importance of rest. At Guy’s Hospitnl, during eight consecutive years, seventy-one cases of abdominal injuries were admitted. In forty-four, bej'ond a passing collapse, no serious or definite symptoms followed; tenderness over the injured part from the contusion was the most marked, but no evidence of any internal mischief showed itself. In these cases, rest in bed for a few days, with the local application of a warm fomen- tation, was the chief treatment, and in all, convalescence was rajiidly established. In ten cases symptoms of followed, as evidenced by excessive tenderness over the injured part, increased by irovement, thoracic respiration—resulting from the indisposition of the ibdominal muscles to act, and thus by pressure on the inflamed per.toneum to cause pain—nausea, and in some cases vomiting. Fever, and consti- tutional disturbance, varied according to the severity of the inflam- mation. In seven of these ten cases, absolute rest in thi horizontal posture, local warm applications, either by means of fonentation or cataplasms, in some instances leeching, and in all, opiim given in moderately full and repeated doses was the treatment .“dopted; and in every case, the inflammation was subdued before it h;d attained a dangerous degree of severity. In the remaining three cises, however, acute peritonitis set in, and in one terminated fatally. In seventeen cases, or about one fourth of the whole number, ruptureof the viscera took place. As a type of an ordinary case of peritonits after injury, I adduce the following case :— A man, set. 22, received from a woman, while fightinj, a blow on his right side, which was followed by syncope, but from wlich he soon re- covered; no pain or inconvenience followed the injury or a week, and the man resumed his usual occupation. At this date svere abdominal pain appeared at the seat of injury, whch rapidly incresed and spread over the whole abdomen; vomiting also began, acompauied with considerable constitutional disturbance; and in this endition he was admitted into Guy’s. He was put to bed, twenty leeces were at once applied and a grain of opium given, which was orderl to be repeated three or four times daily ; perfect rest was also enjined. In a few days these symptoms subsided, and he was enabled to Ike food without vomiting, pain ceased, and convalescence became gradally established. Remarks.—Such a case is interesting from the faC that some days elapsed between the receipt of the injury and the apearance of the peritoneal symptoms, as well as from the important yactical point to be learnt from the rapid success that followed upn the treatment which was pursued. Rest, to its fullest extent, as doubtless the chief element of success—rest by position in the brizontal posture, and rest maintained by the administration of opium It is not unfair to maintain that if this treatment had been adijted earlier, the symptoms exhibited would never have made then appearance; but the man following his occupation, the repair which as required after the injury could not be efficiently carried out, audits a consequence, inflammation ensued. Of all cases abdominal injurs require absolute rest, and in no example, however apparently trial, should it be neglected. If the mischief is but little, that littlewill more rapidly be repaired; if great, its evils and its consequenccwill be materially modified. The case already quoted indicates bdi points, viz. its primary necessity and its secondary good results. Id is thus seen that a blow upon the abdomen mr he followed by a