428 DISEASES OF THE ARTERIES. Forms of arteritis. Acute form. Clironic form. cess. This conclusion has been reached partly upon histologieal grounds and from the fact that the disease is most prone to occur where the wear and tear is greatest, and inflammation, conse- quently, most likely. Arteritis is usually described as “ acute” and “ chronic,” and it will he well for us to adopt the terms in general usage. But the student must remember that the pathologist applies the one to a proeess the product of which is cellular or nuclear; the other, to that which shows organized or tissue product, or some degenerative change such as the calcareous, which must necessarily have taken some time in its production. From a clinical point of view both terms are more arbitrary than exact, and there is other evidence than patho- logical to show, that changes, judged by such a standard to be chronic, are rapid in their course, and, in the same way others which must be called acute, in that microscopically they are cellular, are not necessa- rily of short duration. If we, then, continue to describe arteritis as acute and chronic, it is evident that no strictly histological basis is broad enough for accuracy, and we have therefore adopted that classi- fication of acute arteritis which accords best with our own experience. Acute arteritis is found under four conditions :— 1st. As slightly raised greyish or pellucid patches on the living membrane of the artery, which, when examined microscopically, show a multiplication of the cells of the superficial layers of the inner coat. It is a disease whicih is not, perhaps, of much importance when attacking the aorta or larger vessels, but, when it affects the visceral arteries, it may lead to a considerable diminution of their calibre, to thrombosis, and thus to all those changes which ensue when the circula- tion becomes arrested. It is a change of this kind which Heubner lately described in the vessels of the brain as particularly liable to occur in the subjects of syphilis; and, it is possible, though not yet proved, that a similar result may he induced in the larger arteries from the same cause. 2nd. As a general affection of the arch of the aorta, in which that vessel is greyish, softened, thinned, and dilated, but without any strictly atheromatous or calcareous change in it. It would be better perhaps to call this state, acute softening, though the nature of the process is essentially inflammatory. 3rd. As a local disease in the arch of the aorta in cases of acute rheumatism. This is rare, sometimes originating in the friction produced by large valvular vegetations which are washed backwards and forwards in the blood-stream, and sometimes without any such cause and apparently as a spontaneous arteritis. In either case, it is liable to lead to aneurism or imperfection of the aortic valves. 4th. As a local disease in the arteries, secondary to the lodgment of emboli, which, by their presence, set up an arteritis. Chronic arteritis may occur as a widespread and continuous disease in most of the arteries of the body, or as one whieh is localised to various parts, speeiaUy the larger vessels. Of the former, a very rare disease, examples have been published by Wilks (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1869), and Savory (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1856). The principal arteries of the body were thickened and obstrueted, the vessels being filled with old clot that was “ so closely adherent that the wall of the vessel would split rather than part from the clot. At both the ending and commencing