HYDROPHOBIA. 73 lost; tlie dog is dumb, and his tougue hangs out through his half- opened jaws, from which dribbles a frothy saliva. Sometimes his mouth is perfectly dry, and he cannot swallow, although in the majority of cases he can still eat and drink. When he cannot drink, he will lap Still laps fluids with great rapidity, but on looking closely it will be seen that he fl'dd- merely bites the water. He can still, in some cases, swallow solids, and he may then swallow anything that is within his reach, bits of wood, pieces of eartb, straw, &c.” “ Towards the close of the second stage of rabid fury the dog often breaks his chain and runs away; he wanders about the flelds, being seized from time to time with paroxysms of fury, and then he stops, from fatigue, as it were, and remains hours in a somnolent state. He generally dies in a ditch or retii-ed corner, apparently from hunger, thirst, and fatigue.” Veterinary surgeons do not say that he dies from asphyxia, brought on by spasm of the pectoral muscles or by convulsions. The disease runs its course in from flve to eight days, and it is the same in the dog, cat, horse, and wolf, from any of which man may become inoculated. In man the disease may show itself at any period from six weeks to a Symptoms in year after the inoculation, although Fleming and Bouley assert that m’au. the incubatory period in man varies from one to two mouths, aud that after the third mouth the chances of immunity are great. Thamhayn period of (‘Schmidt’s Jahrbuch.,’ 1859), in an analysis of 220 cases showed, that incubation, in 49 the symptoms appeared within a mouth, in 98 during the second, in 29 during the third, and in 26 during the fourth month; 16 of the remaining cases showing themselves within twenty-six months ; two cases only maturing at a period of four and flve and a half years re- spectively. But these cases are always doubtful, and are probably examples of hysterical or nervous hydrophobia. Fleming, however, records some striking cases which seem to show, that the latent disease may bo induced or brought into activity by mental agitation (‘ Babies and Hydrophobia,’ 1872). The disease may attack the infant at the breast or the aged, the male or the female, aud during the incubative stage no distur- bance of the general health can be observed. Van Swieten has pointed out that during tliis period such a disease as variola may run its course without any modification, two poisons thus coexisting in the same frame. After the incubative stage has passed, the first symptom usually Premonitory displayed is that of sadness j the victim either not suspecting his com- syaiptoms. plaint, or carefully avoiding mentioning the circumstance. His sleep is disturbed; he is fidgetty, sighs deeply, aud avoids society; he is troubled by noise; or is very irritable and ill-tempered. The second second t stage will be marked by an aggravation of all these symptoms, but ° there will be in addition pain in the region of the heart with some irregularity of the pulse. Rigors will soon appear, which, says Trous- p, seau, “ are tnie convulsions of all the muscles of the bodyand lastly, teristic' the characteristic symptom of dread of water, not as fluid, however, symptoms, but as connected with the difficulty of drinking. The sight of water is frequently sufficient to bring on shuddering, yet it is when the patient carries water to his lips that he is seized with the typical terrors. A rabid man is always rational and tries to drink, but the attempt excites terror, aud the expression of his inability. His eyes