DENTAL SURGERY. 500 Cases which render probable M. Broca’s views on the dental origin of many jaw tumours. Odontoplastic odontomes. Structure. Origin. Malignant tumour simulated. formed at either period; but in adopting these terms it must be understood that, in one sense, the embryoplastic and odontoplastic conditions are present consecutively during the whole period of denti- tication, and also that if the odontoblast layer of cells is destroyed at any point, true dentine will not there be formed, although the pulp may undergo calcification, resulting in a kind of osseous structure. Embryoplastic odontomes.—Under this name M. Broca ranges en- cysted fibrous and fibro-plastic tumours of the jaw. As the dental germ at the time of their origin contains no special dentine and enamel- forming cells, distinctive dental structures would of necessity be absent from these gp’owths, and such absence must of course leave their dental origin in doubt. In one instance (mentioned by Tomes) M. Robin met with a tumour in the lower jaw of a child, set. 2^ years; this tumour, apparently fibrous, was studded with papUlse, on which distinct dentine and enamel were found. Now, whatever doubt may arise as to the origin of the before-mentioned tumom’s, there can be no doubt as to the dental origin of this one, and it is probable that in it a longer existence would have been accompanied by further dentification. In another odontome, which occupied half of the lower jaw of a girl set. 2 years and 9 mouths, M. Broca found the formation of dentine proceeding at numerous points, and the fusion of these secondary bulbs, coated as they were with enamel organ, would result in bringing about the structural conditions found in an odontoplastic odontome. Odontoplastic odontomes, in outward form, may bear not the slightest resemblance to a tooth. Structurally they consist of a more or less confused mass of dentine, enamel,and osseous structure; the dentine occurring in tracts, between which the enamel has dipped down. Enamel is also found capping nodular projections which occur on the surface. The case met with by Dr. Forget and reported by him may be cited as an example. A man set. 20 presented himself with disease of the lower jaw, from which he had sufiered since he was five years old; on looking into the mouth a hard smooth tumour was seen occupying nearly the whole of the left side of the lower jaw. None of the teeth beyond the first bicuspid were present. On removal (by section of the containing bone) this tumour proved to be a hard, oval, tuberculated mass, the size of an egg, chiefly composed of dentine, with enamel investing the nodules and dipping into cre\dces. Between the tumour and the osseous crypt which it occupied, there was a thick fibro-cellular membrane. The forming second bicnspid tooth and the crown of a molar were found impacted in the jaw through the superposition of this mass. , , The bulbs of one or more teeth, normal and supernumerary, may enter into the formation of one of these tumours, and surrounding teeth in various stages of development may become enclosed by it. In one instance reported and figured by Tomes, a large tumour, _pre- sentino- the appearance of a malignant growth, occupied the incisive region^of the upper jaw of a man aged 25, his four upper incisors not having appeared. A probe introduced into the tumour impinged on something hard, which proved to be sundry masses of tooth struc- ture, best described as odontomes, together with some ill-formed teetli. These specimens, numbering in all fifteen, are in the Museum of the