276 SPRAIN OP THE BACK, Haimaturia. Haemorrhage into spinal canal. Treatment. favorable opinion should be formed. If the lumbar region is the part involved, it is not uncommon for hsematuria to appear, and this may- be slight and pass away, or be more persistent. It is not generally a very serious symptom, unless the kidney is ruptured; as a rule, it disappears gradually, and no evidence remains that organic renal disease is ever the consequence. “ Of the many cases I have witnessed,” says Le Gros Clark, “ I have never had reason to suspect that nephritis or organic disease followed.” (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 3rd, 1868.) Mr. Shaw, in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ gives a case where the bleeding lasted for .four days, ceased for two, and then reappeared in all its severitj'. After the lapse of two more days it again ceased for twenty-four hours, reappearing for a third time severely, then ceasing, and a good recovery followed. When the kidneys are diseased, and when calculi also exist in them, this symptom is more likely to appear after injury. Hmmorrhage may take place into the spinal canal as the result of a sprain, or, laceration of the ligaments, the blood probably flowing from a laceration of some of the large veins that surround the cord, or, from a spinal artery. Mr. Hewett has related a case of sudden death from a fall on the head, recorded by Dr. Deville in 1843 (‘ Mem. de la Soc. de Chirurg. de Paris,’ t. iii), in which no other injury was found to the nervous centres than hminorrhage into the canal in its whole length. Mr. Le Gros Clark has recorded a second, in which a man was struck violently on the back, though there were no immediate spinal symptoms. Paraplegia soon followed, however, which extended upwards destroying life by asphyxia, and, after death, the theca was found distended with fluid blood derived from a ruptured spinal artery. He gives also another case somewhat similar in symptoms, though not in result, where the patient recovered after two years. Treatment.—In all these cases of sprain, slight or severe, rest is essential, the sufferer being allowed to assume the position in which the greatest ease can be obtained. The application of ice in a bag is also of great service where much swelling or pain exists. In other cases, a warm poppy fomentation gives relief, or a mixture of belladonna and opium rubbed down with glycerine and applied on lint. When spinal symptoms are present, the greatest caution is needed, and the case ought to be treated as one of concussion of the cord. Preventive treatment is all important, to ward off secondary inflam- matory changes both of the spine and cord. Rest in the horizontal position for seven or eight weeks is essential in all severe cases, and, even in milder forms, exercise must be sanc- tioned with caution. When hsematuria occurs, it requires no special treatment unless severe. Gallic acid, in gr. v or gr. x doses two or three times a day, may then be given, but, as a rule, this is not necessary. CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. There are two forms of curvature of the spine, lateral and angular. The lateral is due to a relaxation of the ligaments and muscles of the spine, which, in a healthy subject maintain the bony column in its normal po.sition. The angular is caused by organic disease of one or more of the bodies of the vertebrae, or of the interver- tebral substances. It is generally known as “ Pott’s curvature.”