FISTULA IN RECTO. 703 tlie ulcer by turning the edge of the knife towards the surface of the ulcer and then incising it. Boyer, who first suggested the principle of treat- ment, advised the free division of the sphincter, but Copland and Brodie inti’oduced the minor operation, which in the bulk of cases is sufficient to effect a cure. In very chronic instances, Boyer’s operation may he demanded. When chloroform is given, a speculum may be used, and the ulcer being exposed, divided by a sharp bistoury, transfixing the tissues at the base of the ulcer on cutting inwards. The essential point of practice to observe is, the free division of the base of the ulcer Mode of down to healthy tissue, the mode of doing it being unimportant, performing. When any fold of skin or pile exists near the ulcer, it should be removed. The forcible dilatation of the sphincter, and its laceration with the Forcible thumbs in the rectum, as practised abroad, is a barbarous treatment compared with the above, though when a patient is under chloroform it may be followed. In the after-treatment, the bowels must be kept slightly loose, and After- for this purpose nothing equals in value a mixture of one ounce of treatment, olive oil, rubbed down with forty-five grains of carbonate of potash, Mistura and mixed with seven ounces of peppermint or chloroform water, one Ohi- ounce being given two or three times a day to produce a soft evacua- tion. Indeed, before as well as after the operation, this mixture should be employed j when it fails, enemata ought to be used. The diet should be simple and rest maintained till the cure is complete, for where this rule has not been observed, I have known the ulcer become so indolent as to require a second division, which, under other circumstances, is rarely required. Tonics are often of value during the convalescing period. Spasm of the sphincter is not a disease but a symptom, caused by Spasm of reflected irritation from some rectal, uterine, or other local affection, splimcter. It may be a small or superficial ulcer beyond the verge of the anus, the presence of worms, the existence of a small polypus, or some other cause of irritation of the mucous membrane lining the bowel, but a local cause will be found after careful investigation. The same remarks are also applicable to neuralgia of the rectum. Neuralgia of though it is quite reasonable to believe, that a pure neuralgia may rectum, occur of this part as of any other. Yet, as a rule, it is caused by reflected irritation from some nerve with which the part is connected, and the surgeon should clinically so regard it. It is said to be common in gouty subjects, and can certainly be relieved by free purgation. Dr. T. Ringer, an able surgeon in the Indian army, has related to me several cases of this complaint clearly caused by malaria, and cured by large doses of quinine. Anal Abscess and Fistula in Recto. The two subjects of anal abscess and fistula in recto are classed aiisccss together, as the latter disease is almost always preceded by the former, rec^to'*^ * though a large number of cases of aual abscess recover without passing considered into a fistula. Of my notes of 236 consecutive cases of the two dis- together, eases, 43 commenced and ended as anal abscess, while the remaining 193 were treated as fistula in recto; 74 of these cases were females, and 162 males, men being evidently more liable than women to this affection. It rarely occurs in children, though I have successfully treated a case in a male child four months old, and a second in one of fifteen months; in the latter the foetor of the discharge was very great.