DENTAL SURGERY. 580 Rliizodoii- tropy. Pivoting. Tlie ordinary operation. Pivoting with vent. Fig. 244. Fig. 245. In some cases after the pulp has been extirpated, instead of filling the roots, an alternative plan must be adopted if the tooth is to be saved. This consists in drilling a fine canal beneath the free edge of the gum into the emptied and cleansed pulp chamber, which is then covered over with a cap and superjacent stopping. Fig. 244 represents a tooth so treated—the gum in this case acts as a valve opposed to the ingress of food, &c. The vent (which may be made through a stopping), by preventing the accumulation of fluid or gas in the pulp chamber, stays the development or allows the subsidence of inflammatory mischief about the root. Pivoting.—When no other teeth want replacing and the crown of one of either of the six upper front teeth is lost through fracture or decay, the operation of pivot- ing a new one on to the root is much to be preferred to other modes of attachment. In the case of a healthy root the crown can with advantage be pivoted on it once for all, after the end of the canal has been filled with gold or other durable stopping ; but in other cases the following mode of operat- ing is to be preferred :—The canal at the end of the root is left open, and the new crown is affixed to the root by a split gold pin which is sheathed in a platinum tube fixed with stopping into the rifled barrel of the root. Here the tooth crown can be removed and replaced at pleasure, while the root is preserved from further decay by being lined with metal, and by this method a root not fully formed, or one that is the subject of alveolar abscess, may safely be used for supporting a pivoted crown. (See Fig. 245.) Decay at its commencement is, as a rule, capable of satisfactory and quite or comparatively painless treatment. The difficulties of its successful treatment increase with its onward progress, while the nerve complications that have been noticed, and the severe inflam- matory lesions which will be enumerated further on, are most fre- quently the sequelae of neglected decay. Fracture of Teeth. Fracture of Teeth, especially projecting upper incisors, are liable to he fractured, teeth. jf only a small portion of the crown is chipped off, the fractured edge may be smoothed with a file or stone and touched with spirit to keep it hard and insensitive (filing to amend shape should not be had Treatment recourse to while the patient is very young). If the portion broken according to off is so large that the tooth will be permanently disfigured and yet extent of. escaped destructive irritation, the tooth may for a time be left as it is, or the remainder of the crown may be removed and a new crown pivoted on to the root; in a young subject the destruction of the pulp preparatory to pivoting should be postponed until it is reduced to its ultimate tenuity by the perfecting of the root. If it is evident that the pulp has become inflamed through the frac- ture it will be desirable to at once destroy and extirpate it, in order that the periodontum may be preserved in a healthy condition, and therefore the root be in a position to carry a pivoted crown with