general conclusions. 235 1 If tlie operation has been performed for extravasation of blood be- i neatb the bone, and a clot be discovered, it should be removed; the ii utmost gentleness being used. Should pus exist, it will escape naturally. i Should troublesome haemorrhage from a meningeal artery ensue After- ,i it may be arrested by tucking a small portion of sponge or a small heemorrhage. ■ piece of wool beneath the vessel and compressing it against the bone, 1 or it may be held by a short pair of spring forceps against the bone. ■I Free bleeding of this kind, however, is not frequent. ;i If, however, no blood or pus be found external to the dura mater. On and strong evidence exist that it is placed beneath this mem- puncturing n brane, the dura mater may be punctured. This step, however, is not ( to be undertaken without grave consideration. Yet, it may be asked, f; if the operation fail in its object, is the operator ever justified in i making a second opening into the skull, in search of blood or of pus ? h Certainly it must be answered not at a hazard, although when there is on making a E evidence to point to a second position in which it is reasonably probable second I that the offending fluid may he found, a second perforation may be I performed; cases are on record in which three or more pieces have ( been removed with a good result. I The wound, after the operation, must he treated on general prin- After- i ciples; the edges of the soft parts being gently brought together, but treatment, not stitched ; water dressing is the best application, and the head should be kept cool by the ice-bag. If the parts heal, and the case does well, a metallic shield will probably he required as a protection, although it is interesting to see how firm the membrane that fills in the cavity : becomes after a time. Should a hernia of the brain follow at a later stage, the same local ITemia treatment should he employed. Excision of the projecting fungous cerebri, mass is a practice that is not advisable. The whole will probably wither by natural processes if a cure takes place, and the less the sur- f geou interferes the better. General Conclusions on Injuries of the Head and their Treatment. 1. Injuries of the head are of importance only as far ns they in- volve the cranial contents, a case of simple uncomplicated fracture of the skull being of less danger than one of general concussion of the brain. 2. A slight concussion of the brain, which manifests itself by a slight^ or passing suspension of the cerebral functions, associated or not with a fracture of the vault or of the base of the skull, generally does well. 3. A severe concussion or shaking of the brain associated or not with a fracture of the vault or of the base of the skull, is liable to he associated with contusion or laceration of the brain substance, either upon its surface or within its ventricles, and with more or less extra- vasation of blood; when the vessels are diseased, a copious haemorrhage often follows a slight injury. 4. In cases of severe concussion, the brain is at least as mttch injured by contre-coup as it is at the seat of injury, its base suffering the most Fracture by contre-ooup does not take place. 5. A fall upon the vertex from a height, or a blow upon the head from a blunt instrument, may or may not be followed by fracture of the skull, such an accident producing, as a rule, a general concussion of