OPERATIONS ON THE CONJUNCTIVA. S51 the injection, or the fluid will run back along the floor of the nose into the pharynx. Obliteration of the lachrymal sac. In some cases of obstinate discharge from the sac, especially if ““ dependent on diseased bone, the discharge may be stopped, and the patient made more comfortable by closing up the sac entirely; of course, more or less watering of the eye will remain after the opera- tion, but is far to be preferred to the annoyance of a constant purulent discharge. Obliteration of the sac may be attempted in any of the three following ways. A free incision having been made into it, and the blood care- fully sponged out, its lining membrane may be destroyed—(1) by filling its cavity with a thick paste of chloride of zinc and starch, in equal parts, enclosed in a small piece of lint; (2) by the application of nitrate of silver, or (3) by the galvanic or other cautery. By any of these procedures adhesive inflammation is set up, more or less obliteration of the sac following. Operations for obliteration of the lachrymal sac are by no menus always successful, and may have to be repeated, perhaps more than once, before a satisfactory result is obtained. THE CONJUNCTIVA. Tlie con- But few operations are performed on the conjunctiva alone, it is, junct>''a. of course, cut in some of the operations on the eyelids and in that for strabismus, and some others. Warts are occasionally found on some part of the membrane; they Warts, require to be removed with scissors. Pterygium is a peculiar, somewhat triangular growth, the base of Pterygium, which is situated in the ocular conjunctiva generally near the inner canthus, the apex encroaching more or less upon the margin of the cornea, or passing for a considerable distance upon its surface. The growth is of a reddish colour and variable density ; it consists of hypertrophied connective tissue. Pterygium is not common in this country, and when met with is usually found to occur in sailors and others who have been in the east. If it give rise to any inconvenience or threaten to impair vision it must be removed by operation. The patient should lie on the couch, the lids be opened by a wire Transplanta- speculum, the growth seized with toothed forceps and with a cataract don. knife dissected up from the surface of the cornea. A small portion of conjunctiva should then be removed parallel with the margin of the cornea, and the apex of the growth fixed by a suture in the wound. The eye should be kept bound up for a few days with wet lint and a bandage. If a pterygium is simply cut off it will, in all probability, grow again, but it transplanted it will shrivel up, and disappear without giving further trouble. A cicatrix always remains upon the cornea after removal of pterygium, so that it must never be allowed to grow over the pupil. Pinguiculse are small yellowish growths situated beneath the con- Pinguicula. junctiva, generally near the outer and inner margins of the cornea • they are surrounded by a few large blood-vessels, and are occasionally the source of constant irritation, causing the eyes to be bloodshot and