483 LIGATURE OF RADIAL. the supinatoi’ longus on the outer and pronator teres on the inner side, it can be found by an incision two inches long made in the line above mentioned, dividing the integument and deep fascia, care being taken not to divide the large cutaneous veins unnecessarily. On separating the muscles with the handle of the knife, the forearm being partially flexed, the artery will be brought into view with its venae comites, the nerve being to its outer side. A ligature can then be easily passed round the vessel. I have had to cut down upon the radial artery in this part of its course for a traumatic aneurism the result of a punctured wound, when I divided the vessel and twisted both ends, convalescence speedily following. At the lower third the vessel may be found external to the flexor At its lower carpi radialis muscle, but internal to the supinator longus. It lies beneath the deep fascia, and, on the division of this, the artery can readily be found (Fig. 155). On the dead subject, the principal cause of difficulty in applying the ligature lies in the fact, that students look for the artery too superficially, mistaking the superficial radial vein for the deep. I have had to ligature or twist the radial above the wrist on seven occasions for aneurism; in six for traumatic aneurism situated Fig. 155. in front of the wrist, and in the other for aneurism on its dorsal end. In all a good result ensued. Ligature of the ulnar artery.—This vessel lies beneath the super- Ligature of ficial layer of muscles in the upper half of its course, and, in the lower, the ulnar it is found between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris on the inner side and flexor sublimis digitorum on the outer, being covered with integument and deep fascia. Its position is roughly indicated by a line drawn from the inner side of the biceps tendon to the radial side of the pisiform bone, the upper part of the vessel describing a curve with the concavity outwards. To ligature the artery in the upper half of its course, an oblique incision must be made crossing the line above indicated, and the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris should be found. Through this the in- cision must be made, when the artery will be seen between the two layers of muscles. This operation is very difficult and uncertain, and it is an open question whether it ought to be performed. I am disposed to tbink, that the brachial under all circumstances ought to be tied rather than have recourse to it. To tie the ulnar above the wrist is not more difficult than to tie the radial (Fig. 155). An incision along the outer side of the flexor carpi