WOUNDS OP BEAIN—HEENIA CEEEBEI. 223 instances of recovery after the escape of brain-matter are, however, recorded; and several have passed under my own observation, but they are too rare to be dwelt upon as holding out any hope in bad cases. Foreign bodies may likewise lodge in the skull for a long period without causing death. Wounds of the brain are not charac- terised by any special symptoms apart from those of concussion or compression. Wounds of the dura mater are probably as dangerous as wounds of Wounds of the brain, for inflammation of the membranes is readily set up by such mater, injuries. It is from this fact that compound fractures of the skull are so serious; that simple fractures associated with comminution of the inner table of the skull are so often fatal; and that punctured fractures have so dangerous a tendency; for in all these cases the dura mater is not only torn, but irritated by the projecting spiculse of bone, and secondary inflammation is the result, this inflammation, as a rule, rapidly spreading over the brain and causing death. Wounds of the dura mater, as well as wounds of the brain, are. Prognosis, however, recovered from, but the prognosis in either case must be unfavorable. Fig. 70. Hernia cerebri. Hernia cerebri, or protrusion of brain-matter alone or brain- Hernia matter mixed with inflammatory products, is always the result of cerebri and a wound or slough of the dura mater, secondary either to a com- treatment, pound fracture or to the removal of fractured or diseased bone with the trephine. It is probably always associated with some suppuration (local) of the brain, due to extension of inflammatory mischief to that part in contact with the diseased dura mater and bone. It is to be treated with great caution. Some surgeons are in the habit of cutting off the projecting mass, others of applying pressure; but probably the best practice lies in doing very little, in keeping the parts clean and dry, and leaving their repair to natural processes;