190 INFLAMMATION OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. Treatment of enlarged glands. Treatment in Hodgkin’s disease Wounds of the I lymphatics. Lymphatic fistula. I I 1 of fifteen, dying with an enormons spleen and glandular tumours in every region. His blood was made up almost entirely of white blood- corpuscles, death resulting from exhaustion. Treatment.—For the ordinary or strumous enlargement of the glands in children there is no drug equal to cod-liver oil, the syrup of the phosphate or of the iodide of iron, or, the tincture of quinine being capital additional remedies. I have not much faith in the local application of iodine in the form of the tincture; as after the second application the skin ceases to be an absorbing surface, and the iodine becomes, therefore, a mere irritant. For some years I have been accustomed to order the solid iodine to be placed in a perforated box, and on a shelf in the sitting and bedrooms; the iodine in this way evaporating gradually and iodising the air. In all glandular, as in thyroid enlargements, this mode of employing the drug seems to be of considerable value. The iodide of ammonium as an ointment is a useful application when rubbed in, the iodide by this process becoming absorbed. Good food and fresh air are also essential points in the treatment of these cases. In Hodgkin’s glandular tumours iron in full doses as well as cod- liver oil seem to be the best remedies; that is, patients who can take them appear to improve in their general health, while the disease does not progress so rapidly under their use as without it j but, upon the ultimate issue, no remedy seems to have any decided influence, and it always ends fatally in two or three years. When isolated glandular tumours exist they may be dealt with as local tumours and removed. This practice should, however, only be carried out when the tumour is in the way and interferes with life’s value or usefulness. Under other circumstances they had better be left alone. In all glandular enlargements, however, with the exception of Hodgkin’s disease, the local cause of irritation should be looked into, with a view to its being removed; because, practically, it is well to regard aU glandular enlargements as due to a chronic source of irrita- tion, in the same way as acute adenitis is known to be a result of inflammation of the lymphatics. Lymphatics may be wounded by accident or by design, and no bad result ensue. At times, however, a fistulous opening that discharges lymph may remain. The same consequence may be the result of disease. Dr. H. V. Carter, of Bombay, has recorded three such cases in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlv, and Dr. Day another in the ‘ Clinical Soc. Trans.,’ vol. ii. Through the kindness of the latter I had an oppor- tunity of seeing his case. It was reported on by a committee of the society, and they confirmed the view taken of it. It was one of hyper- trophy of one lower extremity of a boy, with the occasional discharge of chyle from vesicles, which were formed on varicose lymphatics. The hypertrophy had clearly an intimate connection with the distended state of the lymphatics of the limb. Disease of the glands, as connected with cancer and syphilis, is referred to in the chapters devoted to those subjects.