INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 208 h. Fatal cases. Injury of I)raiii. Araelmitis. Rare cases. will prove of value; and, taking the symptoms separately, subconjunc- * tival haemorrhage will first claim our attention, as being one which ( more or less accurately marks a fracture through the orbital plate. In the eighteen fatal examples, this symptom was manifested in four 1 instances; the line of fracture extending in each of these through the orbit. In two cases there was copious hminorrhage from the ear, while in both the fracture passed through the petrous bone. In three examples there was some epistaxis; in one of these the fracture extended across the ethmoid bone; in another the frontal sinuses were full of blood and fractured; and in the third the tym- panum was found full of blood, the membrana tympani perfect, and, upon careful examination, the lateral sinus of the brain was found to have been lacerated. Seven of the eighteen fatal cases died from direct injury to the brain, the post-mortem examination in all revealing severe contusion or lacera- tion of the brain-structure, with effusion of blood upon the surface of the brain or upon the membranes. Seven other cases died from arachnitis as a result of the injury. In four of these there was contusion of the brain, and in one ecchymosis of the ventricles; in two there was no evidence of contused brain, nor was there any effusion of blood; in one interesting case the inflam- mation spread from the internal ear. In three, the cerebral mis- | chief was complicated with some thoracic or abdominal injury, which caused death; and in one haemorrhage was the immediate cause of death. A severe blow upon the nose, by driving in the ethmoid bone, may cause fracture of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull ( Vide Fig. 67); and I have had under my care a case in which a severe blow upon the jaw produced a fracture of the middle fossa. At St. George’s Hospital Fig. 67. Fracture of anterior fossa of tlie base of skull. (Prep. No. 1086W, Guy’s Hosp. Mus.) there is a specimen, in which a fracture of the base was caused by the condyle of the lower jaw being driven against the glenoid fossa with such force that the condyle projected into the cavity of the skull; and in Guy’s Hospital Museum there is a similar speci- men, which was sent in with Mr. Hutchinson’s prize essay. Pune- .# tured wouuds of the orbit are by no means infrequent causes of fracture ^