674 INGUINAL HERNIA. Anatomy of vaginal tubular process of peritoneum. Varieties in the closure of the tubular process. Congenital form of hernia in adult life. Congenital form of hernia. The oblique, from being anatomically placed external to the deep epigastric artery, is called external oblique, while the direct from being internal to the same vessel is known as the internal direct. When the oblique has not passed the external ring, it is known as a bubonocele; when the oblique or direct has passed into the scrotum it is called a “ scrotal hernia ” or “ oscheocele.” In the oblique inguinal, the sac of the hernia may be the natural “vaginal process of peritoneum” that was formed on the descent of the testicle in foetal life, and has not closed, i.e. “a congenital sac ” (Figs. 261, 262, 263) j or an acquired sac formed by the gradual pouching of the parietal peritoneum through the ring (Fig. 265). In the direct inguinal, the sac is always of the acquired form. This “ vaginal tubular process of peritoneum ” which communicates above at the internal abdominal ring with the peritoneal cavity, and below is in close contact with and adherent to the testicle, lies in front of the spermatic cord, and before birth, or soon after, “ it contracts near the head of the epididymis, its surfaces adhere firmly at that spot, and thus two cavities are formed.” The inferior one forms the perma- nent covering to the testis, and is known as the tunica vaginalis propria testis. The superior canal, when no arrest of development takes place, subsequently contracts—commencing at the internal ring, and creeping up till the canal ceases to exist. When an arrest of development occurs and the abdominal orifice of the tubular process remains patent, a piece of intestine may at any time descend. When the whole length of the canal is open, the hernia will pass down at once into the scrotum to the testicle masking its presence, and in this way the “ congenital hernia ” of Haller, the “ hernia of infancy ” of Malgaigne, or the “ hernia into the vaginal process of peritoneum” of Birkett, is formed (Fig. 261). When the closure of the canal takes place higher up (and such an event is possible at any point from the testicle upwards) the descent of the hernia will be limited, though its nature is the same, the only dilFerence being, that in this condition the testicle will be found below the hernial sac at a variable distance and separated from it. To this form of rupture, Birkett has given the name of “ hernia into the funicular portion of the vaginal process of the peritoneum” (Fig. 262). It should also be mentioned, that it is not uncommon for this tubular vaginal process to close at its abdominal orifice at the internal ring, and yet remain more or less open as a cavity below ; and, under these circumstances, any sudden rupture or giving way of the closing medium will be followed by the rapid formation of a hernia, the hernia being scrotal wholly or in part, lying upon or separated from the testicle, according to the absence or position of any point of closure. This form of hernia differs only in the sudden giving way of the abdominal orifice of the vaginal process from those last described, and is very common in young adults. To all those forms of hernia in which the sac is composed of the natural tubular vaginal process of peritoneum, the term “ congenital form ” of hernia would probably be the best, as indicating their nature, dis- tinguishing them from the other form rightly called the“ acquired.” This congenital form of hernia is also frequently associated with some malposition of the testicle, such as its non-descent or partial descent.