FEACTUKES OF THE SKULL. 203 In some cases of fracture of the vault, the bone will be depressed or Depression, driven in upon the cranial contents ^ in rare instances it will be elevated, Fig. 65. ploughed up, or displaced outwards; a common result in sabre wounds. The fracture will be confined in some to the outer table of the skull, in rare instances to the inner; a fracture, with depression of the inner table, occasionally existing without auy fracture of the outer. In Guy’s Mu- seum there is a specimen of fractured skull in which the outer and inner tables are both fractured, but not in corresponding parts. The direction of the fracturing force has much to do with the form of fracture. When applied from with- out and with sufficient violence to in- Comminuted fracture of skull, with volve the whole thickness of the bone, depression of inner table from direct the inner table, as a rule, will be frac- violence. (Prep. Guy’s Mus. tured to a greater extent than the outer. When the force acts from within, the reverse holds good. This latter fact is best seen in gunsbot fractures; and in Guy’s Museum, Prep. 1082™, taken from a patient of Mr. Poland’s, the point is admirably illustrated. The external table is starred, but no fracture of the internal exists; the injury to the bone having been produced by a bullet which had passed through the opposite side of the skull and struck the inner table. As points of practice, however, it is well to remember that, in all Rule in ordinary cases of fracture, with depression of the bones of the skull, practice, the injury to the inner table is far greater than to the outer, aud the point of exit of any foreign body througb the skull is always larger than that of entrance. Whether depression of the bones of the skull of an adult ever Depression occurs without a fracture, is an open question. There is certainly' no without good evidence in support of the fact. In children it has happened without giving rise to any symptoms of brain compression; yet even here, says Mr. Hewett, “some of the bony fibres must have given way.” In these cases, the depressed bone may subsequently rise up again to its natural level. The practical interest, however, attached to all these varieties Brain com- of fracture is concentrated in the question as to how far the cranial plications, contents are involved in the injury. Has the brain been slightly con- cussed, or so shaken as to have been bruised or lacerated ? Have the membranes of the brain been torn, lacerated, or injured? Is the frac- tured bone a source of irritation to the dura mater ? A compound fracture with or without depression, not complicated with brain disturb- ance or brain injury, is a cause of far less anxiety than a simple frac- ture in which severe brain concussion has taken place, and is indicated by symptoms; a sevei'e shaking of the brain, whether complicated or not with a fracture, being a far more serious accident than any local injury to the skull.