MALFORMATIONS OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 695 perforated bowel is absolutely essential to maintain its patency, as Repeated otlierwise, like all artificial openings, its subsequent contraction will dilatation, take place. Tbe introduction of a finger once or twice a week is sometimes sufficient for this purpose, and in a case I had under my care, where the tendency to contract rapidly was marked, the intro- duction of a large sea-tangle tent answered admirably, the tent being placed in water for a few minutes beforehand to make it swell. When the anus opens in an abnormal position, as in the vagina. Tendency of and the anus made by the surgeon is established, there is a natural opening to tendency for the abnormal opening to close, several cases being on record in which this result ensued. Two have occurred in my own prac- tice. When success has followed any operative procedure in these cases, it is important that close attention should be paid to the condition of the bowel for many years, and indeed for the whole of life, because there seems reason to believe, that the bowel which fonns the upper cul-de-sac lias but little muscular power, and is liable to dilate under faecal collection as well as to become paralysed, death under these cir- cumstances taking place from obstruction. In Fig. 287, this fact is illustrated. It was taken from William L—, aet. 26, who had been Case, operated upon as an infant for an imperforate rectum. He died in June, 1874, from exhaustion and peritonitis following intestinal obstruc- tion, this obstruction being clearly due to the narrowing of the rectum at the seat of the early operation. At the post-mortem, the rectum was found to occupy half the abdominal cavity and was thirteen inches long and eleven in circumference. Its walls were three times as thick as natural, more particularly the peritoneal coat. Enormous dilatation of the rectum following obstruction due to the contrac- tim of an artificial opening made into an imperforate rectum twenty-six years previously. llhen the exploratory ano-perinseal operation has failed to give relitf, or when it is inexpedient to make the attempt from the very Fig. 287.