MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOURS. 134 only positive question is what characters make a tumour malignant or constitute it a cancer? Malignant.—In a very common yet vague sense the term malignant is applied to any fatal tumour, superficial or internal. There is no defence for this except from colloquial convenience. Fatal tumours certainly are not easily viewed as benignant or innocent. And hence arises the common use of the word malignant for fatal tumours, making iunocency positive, and regarding all that are not innocent as deserv- ing by negation the opposite term. But as I have said, malignancy is the active and positive thing to which innocency stands as a negative. General What are the active and positive characters and behaviour of a malignfmt tumour that get it the name malignant ? gron^hs. A tumour obtains the name with difierent authorities from two rather distinct points of view. First. Paget, for instance, has regard to the descriptive peculiarities of the more destructive kind of tumours, and hence describes malig- nant tumours as follows: “ 1. The intimate structure of malignant tumours is, usually, not like that of any of the fully developed natural parts of the body, nor like that which is formed in a natural process of repair or degeneration. “2. Malignant growths may have the character of infiltrations; i. e. their elementary structures may be inserted, infiltrated, or diffused in the interspaces and cavities of the tissues in which they lie. “ 3. It is, also, generally characteristic of malignant tumours that they have a peculiar tendency to ulcerate, their ulceration being pre- ceded by softening. “ 4. The softening that often precedes the ulceration of malignant growths can hardly be considered separately from the minute account of their structure. I therefore pass it by, and proceed to their fourth distinctive character, which is to be noticed in the modes of their ulceration. “ 5. Malignant tumours are, again, characterised by this : that they not only enlarge, but apparently multiply or propagate themselves, so that, after one has existed for some time, or has been extirpated, others like it grow, either in widening circles round its seat or in parts more remote. “ 6. A sixth distinctive character of malignant tumours is that, in their multiplication, as well as in their progress of ulceration, there is scarcely a tissue or an organ which they may not invade.” Second. Other pathologists regard rather the vital properties of the tumours, which have been discovered as giving rise to those descriptive peculiarities which Paget enumerates; and hence say that a malig- nant tumour is one (1) which infects the neighbourhood, by dis- persing its offsprurig elements in the tissue around, so that it (2) recurs after removal, because its seed was left; and (3) also extends to the lymph-glands along the lymph stream, and (4) to the great vascular viscera, or to points in the whole blood-carrying system, by infection of the blood stream. In short, these pathologists reduce the word malignant into a compass which would be fairly expressed by such a bad compound word as auto-infectious. Now, the compass of these two several lines of application of the word malignant is much the same. One describes what the other