ANEURISM. 457 aneurism was supposed to be subclavian. Fifteen injections were made at intervals of two or three days over the tumour, which gradually diininislied. To render the cure certain, however, digital compression was subsequently employed. Traumatic Aneurism. An artery receives a punctured or an incised wound; bleeding takes 0“ traumatic place; pressure is applied in order to control it, and the wound heals, In course of time a pulsating swelling is discovered and atraumatic aneurism is said to exist. A man in wrestling, or after making some sudden unprepared-for muscular exertion, finds something give way in his leg, or fancies he has sprained his knee. In a shorter or longer period swelling appears, which steadily increases and is pulsatile, he is the subject of an aneu- rism. In the former ease, doubtless the injury was the direct cause of the aneurism. In the latter it produced it indirectly by acting upon a diseased vessel. And yet, if the former aneurism is sacculated either by the expansion of the reparative material with which the wound of the artery had been closed, or by the hernial pro- trusion of one or more of the coats of the artery thimugh a rupture or wouud of another, or by the condensation of the cellular tissue into which the blood has escaped, it differs in no single practical point from the latter or from any other aneurism that has been already considered ; and, what is more, it must be treated on the same principles, although as the artery of a traumatic is healthier than that of a spon- taneously formed aneurism, the former may be more readily cured. AVhen, however, an aneurism caused by any injury is not encysted ; Diffused when either from the first it is diftused or becomes so from the aneurism or rupture of the sac, or, when any ordinary aneurism ruptures, a different condition presents itself to the surgeon, and the case appears more like that of a ruptured artery; indeed, when such a condition complicates a sprain, fracture, or dislocation, it must be re- garded as such, and treated accordingly. The vessel, however, is not to be cut down upon and tied at once as a matter of course, because such a practice would be wrong and rash in the extreme—a large proportion of such cases as these recovering without any such proceeding. In one where the extravasation is severe and no pulsation exists, it is im- possible to make out with any clearness the true condition of affairs. A limb either with or without a fracture may be greatly distended. Ruptured and this from effused blood; but whether the blood has been poured artery with j out from the rupture of a large artery or vein, or some smaller vessel, fracture, j there can be no means of knowing, since even the pulsation in the i vessels below may be indistinguishable on account of the effusion. 1 Under these circumstances no active proceeding can be carried out. t The limb should be elevated, cold applied, the case left to nature, > and, in a large number of instances a beneficial result will ensue. I can D recall several such cases where I anticipated bad results, but witnessed > good. If the effusion is so severe as to be followed by evidence of arrest of circulation in the limb, the surgeon will be justified in J cutting down upon the vessel at the point where the history of the |9 case indicates that it is wounded, and in tying both ends after having h turned out all clot, &c. In other cases, the main artery may be tied, B but too often there will be nothing to be done but amputation, as gan- P grene may set in. This operation, however, must be postponed till the