634 COLOTOMY. When colon is empty. Care in not wounding the peritoneum. Passage of ligatures. Opening of gut. Mode of fixing gut. Variations in the operation. inches long, beginning an inch and a half to the left of the spine below the last rib, and passing downwards and forwards parallel with the crest of the ileum; the line of the incision should pass obliquely across the external border of the quadratus lumborum muscle about its centre, so as to take the same direction as the nerves which traverse this part. By this incision, the integuments and muscles and fascia are divided, and the outer border of the quadratus muscle exposed. The abdominal muscles can be divided to give room, and this had better be done upon a director. All vessels are now to be secured. The trans- versalis fascia will next come into view, and beneath this will be the colon, a layer of fat sometimes intervening. The fascia is to he opened with caution, for in the loose fat and cellular tissue the colon is to be found; when distended, the bowel comes at once under the eye on dividing the fascia, but when empty, some little trouble may be ex- perienced in hooking it up with the finger. It can always be found in front of the lower border of the kidney. This organ should conse- quently be sought, as it is the only certain guide to the bowel. I have found, however, on several occasions at this stage of the proceeding, great help by rolling the patient over on to his back, the bowel falling by this manoeuvre on the finger, and being then readily caught. When the bowel has been caught, it should be partially rolled for- ward, in order to expose its posterior surface, for if this be not done there is a risk of the surgeon wounding the peritoneum where it is reflected from its anterior surface on to the abdominal wall. The bowel having been drawn up to the wound is then to he secured to the integument and not to the muscles, by the passage of a ligature introduced through one margin of the wound, then through the bowel, and lastly through the other margin. The bowel can then be opened by a longitudinal incision about three quarters of an inch long over the ligature that has traversed its canal; the centre of the ligature is then to he drawn out and divided, the two halves of the ligature fixing the two sides of the divided intestine firmly to the margins of the wound; and two or four more stitches may then be introduced to make the artificial anus secure. The margins of the wound may be oiled to guard against the irritation of faeces, and the patient placed in bed. At times, the faeces escape in large quantities directly the bowel is opened; at others some slight faeculent discharge will take place at the time, the larger flow taking place later. This is not, however, a matter of any importance, and the surgeon should take no measures to cause the bowels to act; indeed, it is better, as far as the operation is concerned, that the flow be postponed, for within an hour or so, the parts about the wound become sealed with lymph, and thus the risks of extravasation are diminished. Amussat originally suggested the transverse incision in the loins, and Callisen the vertical, the former crossing at right angles the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle, the latter running parallel with it. The oblique appears to me to he preferable to either, as it gives more room for manipulation when the colon is empty, it takes the line of the nerves and vessels that traverse this part, and lessens the risk of their division; it follows the ordinary integumental fold of a patient when assuming the recumbent posture, and thus favours repair, and seems to tend much towards the prevention of the prolapse of the bowel that is always liable to follow such au operatiou.