AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR, 406 Operations on tympanic membrane. Otitis media. Treatment. Purulent catarrh. The operations on the tympanic membrane and structures of the cavity are perforation, division of adhesions and tenotomy of the tensor tympani. The perforation of the membrane has been spoken of at p. 401. The division of adhesions and of the tensor tympani is made by small curved bistouries or by revolving cutting hooks made for the purpose. Those of Weber-Liel, and Gruber, will be found most useful. The determination of adhesions, with their exact positions, is best made by using Siegle’s pneumatic speculum, by which, on creating a vacuum in the meatus, you are able to note what part of the membrane is bound down and does not fall into the vacuum with the rest of the membrane. It requires a considerably lengthened experience in aural diagnosis to be certain of the necessity for or advantage to be derived from such operations. Otitis media or purulent catarrh is merely a higher grade of in- flammatory mucous discharge, but it has always a much more un- favorable prognosis than simple catarrh. The symptoms are much the same as in simple catarrh, but more violent, being accompanied with severe pain, fever, and nearly always leading to perforation. This, should there be an accumulation of considerable extent in the cavity, is to be desired rather than feared; because should the mem- brane not give way, as is apt to be the case in a thickened membrane from chronic catarrh, the pus is apt to find its way through some of the many passages which often exist between the tympanic and cerebral cavities, and so cause meningitis. The treatment is conducted on the usual principles. Give the pus every opportunity of free exit, either by natural or artificial channels, and thus allay fever and pain and save time and tissue. Leeches, opiates, purgatives, and warm-water injections into the meatus, keeping the Eustachian open so as to have a natural drain, if necessary, per- foration of the membrane at the point of bulging, and when otorrhoea has occurred regular syringing of the ear with lukewarm water, to which an antiseptic or astringent has been added, are what are generally found successful. To make the astringent employed pass into the cavity and through the Eustachian tube it is useful to fill both canals with the astringent, causing the patient to keep it there till you pass a current of air through the Eustachian, on which the fluid in the external canals will rush into the cavity and Eustachian; or by driving a current of fluid with or without medicaments through the Eustachian tube and tympanic cavity from one side or other. In addition to the local treatment that of the constitution must be attended to, the residence of the patient in such chronic discharges being of especial importance. The pus catarrh of children is often most insidious in its progress, and may cause great injury before its presence is suspected. Till a discharge appears, probably the ear has not been looked upon as the seat of any disease, on account of the child’s inability to localise its pain or tell of its deafness. The screaming of the child when pus has formed is loud and persevering, especially at night, is increased by every movement, or concussion of the body, especially by movement of the head, and above all, by sucking at the breast, which at last becomes so painful that the child refuses to take the breast entirely, preferring to be fed by the spoon. In nearly all the cases of suppuration in the tympanic cavity which comes before the surgeon, the pus has already made its way through the meiiibraue, and the child is brought to you on accoun