314 EXTERNAL MUSCLES OP THE EYEBALL. its surface. The affected eye is frequently lost from implication of the cornea. The disease is best treated by sedative applications, as fomentations of poppy heads, or belladonna, attention being paid to the patient’s general health. Injuries.—Wounds of the conjunctiva usually heal readily enough, requiring only simple treatment. Sums are usually caused by contact of lime or hot metals; the damage done may be only slight, or the whole conjunctiva and cornea may be converted into a dead white slough. Teeatment.—The conjunctiva should be carefully examined, and all foreign bodies and portions of sloughy tissue removed; should the injury have been caused by lime the surface of the conjunctiva must be carefully cleansed with a weak solution of acetic acid or simple warm water. Some oil should be placed between the lids, and the eye bound up with wet lint and a bandage. If any symptoms of iritis appear, a solution of atropine should be dropped into the eye from three to six times a day. Should there be much discharge alum lotion may be used. When the sloughs have separated care must be taken to prevent adhesions between the raw surfaces left, by passing a probe between the lids and eyeball once or twice a day, and directing the patient to draw the lid away from the globe frequently. Foreign Foreign bodies, small pieces of coal, iron, &c., are sometimes found bodies. embedded in the conjunctiva, and must be removed. Heemorrhage. JScemorrhage into the substance of the conjunctiva or beneath it may occur spontaneously, or from injury; no treatment is necessary; the patient may be assured that no harm will come of it, and that the blood will disappear in the course of a week or longer. External EXTERNAL MUSCLES OF THE EYEBALL. muscles. Strabismus will be considered in the next section. Nystagmus. Nystagmus signifies a peculiar involuntary quivering motion of both eyes, dependent on rapid contraction of antagonistic pairs of muscles. The disease is usually developed in infancy, and is always associated with considerable impairment of vision, arising from con- genital cataract, opacity of the cornea after purulent ophthalmia, atrophy of choroid, &c. Teeatment.—Nothing can be done to remedy nystagmus. Paralysis and Paralysis and paresis. paresis. Paralysis signifies total loss of power of the afiected muscle; paresis, only partial loss. Symptoms. The symptoms of paralysis and paresis are double vision and total loss, or impairment of mobility of the eye in some particular direction. The causes are affections of the brain or spinal cord; diseases within the orbit, as tumours, or inflammatory affections, pressing on the nerves supplying the muscles, and affections of the nerves themselves or df the muscles. As a rule, the cause of the paralysis or paresis can only be conjectured, but very many cases will be found connected with syphilitic, diseases. _ Treatment Teeatment.—A careful inquiry should be made into the patient s previous history, and remedies given in accordance with this, those ot an antisyphilitic nature being generally required. If the allection Injuries. Burns. Treatment. Prevention of adhesions.