]06 TUMOURS. The acquired sebaceous cyst. Wens. Construction of horny capsule. The acquired sebaceous cysts may be found on any part of the body that is covered with skin. They are more common on the head and face than elsewhere, two thirds of all cases occurring in these regions: when on the scalp they are known as “ wens ” (Fig. 17). They are always surrounded by a cyst-wall, composed of fibrous tissue more or less depse, and which can always be seen after these tumours Fig. 17. Sebaceous tumours iu scalp, and horn. have been enucleated from their beds. In “ wens,” however, there is a marked peculiarity which demands some notice. “ The chief pecu- liarity consists in a thick dense horny capsule, which is closely in contact with the fibrous envelope of the original gland. This horny capsule was formerly regarded as the cyst-wall altered by pressure, until Mr. Prescott Hewett demonstrated its true relations and anato- mical structure in his lecture at the College of Surgeons. It is now clearly proved that when one of these sebaceous tumours is squeezed out after the division of the skin, the fibrous cyst remains behind. This cyst can be afterwards excised, and its structure is identical with that of all the others. But the construction of the horny capsule re- quires explanation. If carefully examined, it is found to consist of epithelium, layer upon layer, mixed up with sebaceous matter. Some- times a solid mass of epithelium is formed, in other instances a cavity exists in the centre, filled with soft sebaceous secretion. This capsule then seems to be a production of the epithelium of the sebaceous gland, which, being subjected to the pressure of the unyielding textures in which the tumour is developed, becomes converted by slow degrees into a tissue closely resembling horn or fibro-cartilage ” (Birkett, ‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1859). These sebaceous tumours are more frequent in women than m men, and are, beyond doubt, hereditary. Sir J. Paget says " they are certainly more commonly hereditary thim are any forms of cancer.”