LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 468 Position of patient. I'irst incision. too far off, the circulation through the aneurismal sac may be too free on account of the collateral circulation of the part. But above all, the surgeon should avoid seleeting a spot where an artery hifurcates or gives off large branches; as under these circum- stances, the clot that is required to plug the vessel behind the ligature must be absent, and one of Nature’s most important hsemostatic agents become lost. With the decision of these primary and important points the opera- tion itself has to be considered, which resolves itself into the exposure of the artery, its isolation, the application of the ligature around it, and the after-treatment; the position of the patient for the operation being previously determined. The position of the patient should be such as to render prominent the anatomical guides to the course of the artery, to make the skin tense and to facilitate its division. It should, moreover, he one of extension, yet after the artery has been exposed, it is well to re- member that the muscles of the part must be relaxed, as the artery is thus better brought into view and the subsequent steps of the operation are rendered more easy. The exposure of the artery is to be made by incision, its course having been clearly made out, and the point determined on before- hand for the application of the ligature. The incision should be in the course of the vessel, its centre corresponding to the point where the ligature is to be applied, an occasional obliquity being sometimes practised when the exact position of an intermuscular interspace in which the vessel lies, is uncertain, and when the artery lies deep. It should, moreover, be free. It need not be so long in a thin as in a fat subject, nor in the case of a superficial artery as in that of a deep vessel; but, under all circumstances, the skin wound should be enough to allow room for manipulation. The first incision should include the skin and superficial fascia down to the deep fascia, and, in making it, the operator has only to avoid the division of any large vein such as the external jugular in operations on the neck; or, saphena, in operations on the thigh. He should, con- sequently, mark out their position by arresting the circulation through them on their cardiac side, and make his incision parallel with them when they lie in his course. When the deep fascia is exposed, it should be laid open, and in this step, the use of a director is sometimes valuable; the fascia, moreover, should always be divided to the full extent of the external incision. The student should remember that the trunks of all arteries, except the cutaneous are covered in by fascia. With the division of the fascia, the use of the knife can for a time be dispensed with, as the intermuscular septa and cellular tissue are readily separated by the handle of the instrument or finger, so that the sheath of the vessel can be thus well exposed. If, writes Malgaigne, “ immediatelyafter the first incision, the surgeon attempts to find the artery, he tries an impossibility, since he cannot reach it till after the last incision.” He will then proceed uncertainly, and at random, hence the following rule of the guiding points “The surgeon should not at the commencement occupy himself with looking for the artery, but should seek the first marked point of guidance, then the second, then the third, and so on to the end.”