18 ABSCESS. saturated alcoholic solution of guaiacmn to the air until it had ab- sorbed a sufficient quantity of oxygen to give it the property of turning green when placed in contact with iodide of potassium. On moisten- Eig. 2. I j i A. Pua-corpuscles (magnified 350 diameters). B. Same made transparent with acetic acid. a. Cell-wall. i. Nucleus, c. Nucleolus. (After Lebeet.) ing the smallest quantity of pus with water, and pouring a drop or two of the test-fluid over it, a clear blue colour was produced. By means of this test he has made out that healthy pus, when dried, becomes chemically inactive, and non-susceptible to the test, although when moistened with water it resumes its chemical activity; whilst pus taken from an erysipelatous, carbuncular, or pyajmic patient, retains for many months, although dry, its chemical activity, and responds to the test at once. He believes, consequently, that a moist atmosphere promotes and that a dry retards the spread of erysipelas and allied affections. He finds that carbolic acid destroys for ever the chemical activity of all pus-cells. (‘Med. Times,’ March 11, 1871.) The investigations ofM. Schultze have proved that pus when seen in a moist chamber and on a warm stage exhibits very beautifully the amoeboid movements ; whilst those of Recklinghausen seem to infficate that the globular appearance of the pus-ceD is indicative of the death of the cell. ABSCESS. On abscess. Whatever may be the origin of pus, whether degenerated lymph, or a new cell growth the result of inflammation of areolar tissue, or escaped white blood-corpuscles, a circumscribed collection of pus in any tissue is called an “ abscess and when pus is not circumscribed but infil- trates a part, diffused suppuration is said to exist, this latter condition always indicating want of power. Varieties. An abscess that forms rapidly and is associated with severe inflam- matory symptoms is known as an “ acute abscess that which is the result of a chronic action and of slov/ formation, as “ chronic or cold abscess.” There are, moreover, many intermediate forms. Pus may be Pus may, however, be absorbed, the serous fluid in which the cells absorbed. float being taken up, and the cells left to wither—these sub- sequently forming a pultaceous, and, at a later date, a cretaceous mass. Clinically, however, pus may disappear altogether, and leave no external evidence of its former existence. The fact is now clearly