453 ANEURISM. of the heart’s action—the habits of the patient forming the best guide as to quantity. Should pain be present, opium, morphia, or chloral must be prescribed, either by the mouth or subcutaneously. When the ligature has separated, the wound healed, and the aneurism Subsequent consolidated, no forcible or prolonged exercise of the limb must be after- allowed for some weeks, although gentle exercise is beneficial. The ‘ limb should also be kept warm, for it has happened that the circulation through it has failed to become full or even sufficient, after the opera- tion, and some permanent weakness and loss of sensation has been left. A patient may, however, live a long life even after a double opera- tion. In 1864 1 saw a man, mt. 51, upon whom Mr. B. Cooper had operated twenty-three years before (1841) for popliteal aneurism of the left leg, and of the right in 1843. He had been an orange porter, and subsequently followed his work. When gangrene takes place, it Gangrene of is generally as a direct result of the cutting off of arterial supply from a limb, and of the ensuing blood stasis. As a consequence it occurs “ within a few days of the operation. It may, however, he produced by the presence of an infiameil or rapidly increasing aneurism, and has then little or iiotliiug to do with the operation. It should be dealt with energetically. If it spread rapidly, and threaten life, ampu- tation of the limb about the line of ligature should be performed without delay. Should, however, it be limited in its nature, and slowly progressive, the expectant treatment must he employed. The warmth of the limb at the same time should be carefully looked to, the slough- ing or dying parts covered with well-oiled lint, the venous circulation a>sisted by the elevated position and by gentle friction, and the powers I of the patient stimulated by food and wine; opiates being administered for the alleviation of pain. When the sac of the aneurism inflames and suppurates after the Suppuration application of a ligature, the case may be regarded as oue of local gangrene the result of the operation ; it is a dangerous complication, and no definite rules can be laid down for its treatment. Hajinorrhage is occasionally a result of this action, the blood coming from the lower end of the vessel; pymrnia or blood-poisoning is another. In general, when an aneurismal sac suppurates, amputation is the best practice when it can be performed. In August, 1871, I applied a ligature to the left carotid artery of a man set. 29, for a large aneurism, and death ensued on the thirty-fourth day from suppuration of the sac and sloughing of nearly the whole aueurism. This process had been pre- ceded by some hmmorrhage on the tliirteenth day after the operation. The same result may take place after the cure by compression, rapid or slow. It is an open question, however, whether aneurismal sacs that have been suddenly filled with coagula are not more liable to break up and suppurate than others in which the process has been more gradual. ! In rare instances after the Hunterian operation the pulsation of an Pulsation in aneurism reappears; and a passing, feeble pulsation in the sac a day sac alter I or tw’o after the application of the ligature is by no means a rare *'Ssfure. I occurrence; nor need it excite any alarm, as it is doubtless due to the I passage of a feeble current of blood through the sac by means of a col- I lateral branch. This is more likely to occur when a cure by pres- sure has been previously attempted and failed, the collateral circu- lation having been enlarged by the pressure. Should, however, the pulsation continue persistent, even after the application of a ligature