671 DISPLACED HERNIA. pressure is continued, until at last very little, if anything, can be felt, but the surgeon has failed, to experience that sudden jerk so charac- teristic of the escape of the hernia from the gripe of the mouth of the sac, as it enters the abdominal cavity. After the effects of the chloro- form have passed away, all the symptoms of strangulated howel recur, and, perhaps, with increased force. Even the tumour itself may reap- pear and recede on the application of slight pressure.” When this condition is found, there is but one form of practice to follow, and that is, the exploration of the sac. At its neck two orifices will be found, one dipping down into the artificial sac, and the second into the abdominal cavity; from the latter, the bowel will be seen to pass through the former into the artificial sac. The surgeon must then draw out the bowel from the sac through its false orifice, and having freely divided the true neck or abdominal orifice of the sac, replace the intestine, and “ the exercise of great care and caution is needed to pre- vent the entrance of the hernia once more into the abnormal space out- side the peritoneal cavity.”—Biekktt. ¥ia. 280. Third variety. Interstitial hernia with ruptured neck of hernial sac. In i\\cfourth form, an intermuscular, interstitial, or intra-parietal sac has also been described, being a kind of diverticulum from the inguinal sac, and is almost always found, according to Birkett, associated with the congenital form of hernia. This sac may be found in the anterior abdominal walls, in an upward, outward, or inward direction, mostly behind the abdominal muscles in front of the abdominal fascia, though in some instances in front of the external oblique muscle beneath the skin. Birkett refers to a case recorded by Scarpa, and to a second by Dr. Fano. In some cases, the sac extends to the iliac fossa and rests upon the iliacus muscle, between the internal abdominal fascia and perito- neum ; or directing itself inwards, it passes behind the horizontal ramus of the pubes and reaches the side and front of the urinary bladder (Birkett). Diagram 268 illustrates this form of hernia, but Fig. 281 does so much more clearly. It was taken from a preparation now in Guy’s Museum, which was removed from a man, set. 36, upon Mode of proceeding in such cases. Fourtli form Interstitial with herniated neck of sac. Case.