517 EANULA OR SUBLINGUAL CYSTS, Aphthous stomatitis is another affection often mistaken for cancrum Aphthous oris, hut is not, however, half so dangerous. It occurs likewise stomaii is. in the unhealthy and ill-fed child, but as often as not is indepen- dent of the exanthemata. It begins as an aphthous ulceration of the tongue, gums, lips, or cheeks, by which these parts become covered with i a white or ash-coloured secretion. With these local symptoms there I will be a foul tongue and foetid breath, as well as some evident symptoms I of derangement of the bowels and digestive organs. In very feeble I children this superficial ulceration may pass on to .sloughing of the 1 parts, or ulcerative stomatitis, thus simulating cancrum oris, but with 1 this difference—in cancrum oris, the disease begins in the cellular I tissue, the skin sloughing subsequently; in ulcerative stomatitis or I noma, it begins as a skin or mucous membrane ulceration, sloughing I following upon it. I Tkeatment.—Of all drugs, the chlorate of potash has the best action. Treatment, of , and should be administered in five- or even ten-grain doses mixed with stomatitis, bark, or with milk, a lotion of the same drug, 5j to a pint of water, being used as an application. Milk diet is the best where it can be taken, beef tea and eggs being given otherwise, or, in addition. Wine must be administered with great caution, and only when the powers of the child are very feeble, as in the phagedamic form. A rhubarb purge is usually required at the beginning ot the affection to clear the way, as foul excreta are too often present, and, in the later stage, the more powerful tonics, such as iron or quinine, are often demanded. It is a disease generally due to intestinal irritation from bad feeding, and requires, therefore, for its treatment, careful attention to this matter. Eanula or Sublingual Cysts. Ranula. 1 These are now known not to he due to any obstruction of the salivary Nature of tlie j ducts, submaxillary or sublingual, but to obstruction of one of the disease. I mucous glands situated beneath the tongue, such as the glands and ' ducts of Riviui. They are probably analogous to the mucous cysts j of the lip already alluded to, and of the mucous passages generally. \ They contain a clear, glairy, mucoid fluid, but never saliva. I have the notes of several that were congenital. They sometimes '• attain a large size, and, when placed beneath the tongue (their usual Fiq. 191. Riinula or siibliugunl cyst, with salivnrv duct lying upon it. Guy’s Hosp. Mils , No. 229*®.—llilton’s case.