48 ERYSIPELAS. Severity of constitu- tioual symptoms. Pathological appearances found in erysipelas. Local. ^ A-"" slender, because muscles and tendons may not only slough wholly or in part, hut on recovery taking place, they become so closely hound together with all the other tissues that they are useless as moving organs. From this cause, after phlegmonous inflammation of the hand and forearm, a stiff and immovable extremity is often met with, the hand becoming a kind of fin. The constitutional symptoms attending phlegmonous erysipelas vary considerably; their severity depends much upon the rapidity with which the disease spreads. They are, however, in character the same as are to be found in other forms of the affection, though probably more severe. The rigors are more marked, the fever higher, the pulse more rapid, and the tendency to fall in power always marked. Thus, in the second stage of the disease—the suppurative or sloughing— the rigors frequently recur ; cold sweats and fever intervene as in an ague, these attacks being indicative of suppuration. When the local affection is undergoing repair, or, at any rate, has ceased to spread, and these “ false ague fits” persist, some internal or visceral complication may be looked for, as the blood becomes poisoned as in septica;mia, and often to the extent of destroying life. The pathological appearances met with in cases of death from ery- sipelas have been kindly drawn up for me by Dr. J. F. Goodhart, after a careful analysis of the post-mortem records of the hospital. They admit of being classified as local and general, the former including all those morbid changes which occur in the primary focus and in the surrounding parts directly extending fi-om it; the latter, the various alterations of blood or tissue found in any secondary foci or in the system at large. The local changes vary according to the severity of the disease and the rapidity with which it causes death. In the slighter forms, where it has not been the immediate cause, but has supervened as an intercurrent affection in the course of some other disease, it may often happen that no morbid appearance is visible post- mortem indicating erysipelas. Again, the skin alone may be affected either with a mere faint purple discoloration or with slight oedema, or, the the cuticle may be raised into bullm or separated more or less around. In more pronounced cases, the areolar tissue beneath the skin and along the tendons and intermuscular septa has numerous minute ecchymoses and extravasations of blood in it, and is often soaked with yellow serum or gelatinous matter, apparently produced by a delicate fibrinous coag- ulum; in the more prolonged or in severe cases, the serum is replaced by good-looking pus. Ecchymoses in the subcutaneous areolar tissue are very common even in cases where death has been very rapid and no other morbid appearances are seen. It is characteristic of the further changes that there is no ten- dency to the limitation of the disease around the primary focus; the pus or serum leads to the formation of no abscess sac, but spreads along the subcutaneous tissues and intermuscular septa, sometimes even making a complete dissection of some of the luusclss* There may or may not be phlebitis in the parts. W^here it exists, the interior of the veins affected is discoloured and filled with a^ grumous .chocolate-coloured fluid, while the inner surface of the vein wall is rough from the inflammatory processes it has undergone and the adhesion