326 INJURIES OP THE IRIS. Iritis with suppurution. Constitu- tional. Mercury. Tonics. Injuries. Treatment. Hypersemia of clioroid. to 5j) should he used by the patient from four to eight or twelve times a day. If the case is treated at the commencement, more or less dilatation of the pupil will usually take place; but should the iris have become infiltrated with inflammatory matterj and adhesions formed, little or no effect will he produced; the atropine should, however, be persevered with. In cases of iritis with suppuration the eye should be fomented fre- quently with hot belladonna lotion, and kept bound up with lint soaked in the lotion. Ill cases accompanied by much pain blood should he taken from the temples by leeches or the artificial leech. Atropine may give rise to pain by causing dragging upon adhesions, and should be used with caution in cases where its application is attended by much suffer- ing, especially if it have no effect upon the pupil. The eyes should be protected from light by a green shade or protectors until the inflam- mation has subsided. Of constitutional remedies there is none so useful in the treatment of iritis as mercury. The drug should be given in some form or other, so as speedily to affect the system in all cases where inflammatory products are plentifully produced, whether the inflammation be of syphilitic origin or not. A pill containing gr. ij of Pil. Hydrarg. and gr. ^ of Pulv. Opii may be taken three times a day, and is a very convenient and effectual mode of administration. Mercurial inunction, or vapour baths, may be employed if preferred. If the iritis occur in debilitated states of the system, or the inflam- mation go on to suppuration, tonics, as iron or quinine, should be pre- scribed, and a plentiful supply of good food given. Should there be much pain opium must he given, and it is well to prescribe the drug in conjunction with extract of belladonna or hyoscyamus. The results of iritis, should they’ seriously interfere with vision, require the performance of iridectomy or some one of the operations for artificial pupil. Iridectomy should also be performed in cases of reeurreiit iritis. The removal of a portion of iris in some manner — probably by preventing dragging on adhesions—has a marvellous effect in preventing recurrences. Injuries.—The iris may be cut, torn, or bruised; prolapsed through, or adherent to, the cornea, in cases of penetrating wounds of that structure {see Wounds of the Cornea); or it may be separated from its insertion to a greater or less extent by concussion, without external wound. Any of these injuries are liable to set up iritis, which may possibly be followed by suppuration. Treatment.—The injured eye should be kept carefully bandaged with lint soaked in belladonna lotion, and if much pain is complained of, or inflammatory symptoms arise, blood should be freely taken from the corresponding temple, either by leeches or the artificial leech. As in iritis from other causes, the pupil may become blocked, or extensive synechiae form, requiring operative interference at some later period. (See Operations on iris.) Hypersemia of choroid. Increased vascularity of the choroid is not uufrequently met with, more especially in myopic persons; it should be suspected if a feeling