TREATMENT OP N^VCS. 465 as illustrated in the drawing Fig. 142, or, it may be injected with the perchloride of iron of the pharmacopceia strengdih, with a solu- tion of tannin in water in the pro- portion of 5j to gj, or of the chloride of zinc grs. xij to gj of water, about twenty drops being thrown into the centre of the growth, care being taken beforehand to tear up the tex- ture of the tumour with a needle. The object of this treatment is to coagulate the blood in the tissue, and thus promote its consolidation and cure. In many cases injection causes inflammation, suppuration, or even sloughing of the growth, and though in this manner a cure may be obtained, it is often by deformity. The treatment by injection when the neevus is on the head or trunk is, however, attended with great danger, more particularly from embolism. I lost a patient where the naevus was on the cheek from this cause in a few minutes after the operation. For the above reason it is well to apply a ligature to the base of the growth and then inject; or to isolate the growth by means of the pressure of a metallic ring before injecting. In the mixed variety, when the skin appears to have been involved secondarily by the extension of the disease from the cellular tissue, the naevus maybe treated by excision, subcutaneous ligature, or injection. When the skin, with the cellular tissue, is extensively involved and the naevus deflned, the whole may be removed by excision; but when otherwise, by ligature. When the naevus is pendulous, or when it can be isolated from the parts beneath, excision is most suitable, and, when haemorrhage is dreaded, the base of the growth may be previously held in a flat clamp. In several instances I have excised the naevus by cutting on pins that have been inserted beneath its base; keeping the pins as points round which a ligature might be applied, and, by which the edges of the wound might be brought together. When the thickness of the lip is involved in the disease and the disease is limited, a V piece may be taken out with the growth advantageously, but when the whole lip is involved the growth may be dissected out, leaving the skin. The drawing below is of a case in which this opera- tion was successfully practised (Fig. 143). Fig. 142. "v Mixed najvus with the ligatures in- serted round its base subcutane- ously before being tied. 1. Ntevus involving the whole of the upper lip. 3. After removal. 8. Flattening of the teeth from the pressure of the ntevus (from ‘ Guy’s Reports ’). VOL. I. 30 Fig. 143. Sub- cutaneous ligature. Injection. Dangers attending injection.