296 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC EXAMINATION. Position of image. Use of convex ocular lens. patient’s brow. By this means an inverted image of the optic disc and vessels of the retina is immediately seen, which, although apparently within the eye, is in reality formed in tlie air between the observer and the biconvex lens, and (in emmetropia) at a distance from the latter corresponding to its focal length. If the image of the disc appear indistinct, the observer may be sure that his own eye is not accommodated for the distance at which the image is situated, which is, in reality, shorter by some inches than it appears to be. Should this be the case, the observer must increase the tension of his accommodation, or withdraw somewhat further from the observed eye. A better method, however, than either of the foregoing, is to employ habitually, behind the sight hole of the ophthalmoscope, a convex ocular lens of about ten or tw^elve inches* focal length. If this be done, a clear and well-defined image will always be obtained without tension of accommodation, provided precautions be taken that the distance between the observer’s eye and the image be not greater than the focal length of the convex ocular lens. The disc and parts immediately surrounding having been examined, the patient should be directed to look straight forward, so as to bring the region of the yellow spot opposite the ophthalmoscope; this having been carefully examined, the eye should be turned upwards, down- wards, to the right and left, so that all parts of the fundus may be examined in turn. In the indirect method of examination the observer should use his right eye, and hold the ophthalmoscope in his right hand and the bi- convex lens in his left in examination of the right eye, and vice versa in examination of the left. Inconve- nience from reflections ol mirror. i How obvinted. i i Use of i atropine. DiflSculties of Ophthalmoscopic Examination. Considerable practice is required in order to become proficient in the use of the ophthalmoscope; the beginner will be frequently much dis- heartened at his want of success. Some of the difficulties are only to be overcome by practice, others are easily remedied. Reflections of the mirror from the two surfaces of the object lens often prove very troublesome; the inconvenience arising from this source is obviated by holding the lens somewhat obliquely, when the two images will recede from each other and leave a clear space between them. Re- flection from the surface of the cornea may be troublesome, but can usually be overcome by a little manoeuvring. Contraction of the pupil is also an insurmountable obstacle to the beginner, but can be removed by dilatation with atropine; for this purpose a solution of one grain to one ounce of water should be dropped into the eye about half an hour before the examination is made; or the patient may be ordered to use a solution of one eighth grain to one ounce two or three times on the day preceding it. When experience has been gained, however, atropine can be dispensed with, except in some few cases, or in those where it is necessary to make a very careful examination by lateral illumina- tion. If the patient be directed to look at a distant object the accommo- dation is relaxed, and sufficient increase in the pupillary area will generally take place. ' Four or three dioptrics.