622 INTESTINAL OBSTETJCTION. died unrelieved; in the second, I opened the empty hernial sac, and so enlarged my incision upwards for about two inches as to detect a band high up in the abdomen, which I divided with a pair of scissors, and a pei-fept recovery took place. This case occurred in the practice of Dr. Wilkinson, of Sydenham, and is fully recorded in the ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.’ for 1867. The patient is still alive. The third died after the operation, hut the hand was divided and a large coil of intestine released. The operation had been delayed too long. Analysis of Mr. Gay’s analysis of 148 cases tells us that 102 were in the male and 46 in the female, and that the largest number of cases took place in patients between 15 and 35. The surgeon, under the circumstances related, however, has a clear case and an important decision before him, for if the diagnosis be correct, and a portion of bowel is strangulated within the abdomen, obstructed by some solitary band or twisted, he knows that very little can be looked for by medical treatment—that by leaving things alone, and the case is unrelieved, death is inevitable j and he is aware, more- over, that the hope of a cure by natural processes is very meagre; and if I estimate that hope as being nearly on a par with that entertained in a case of ordinary strangulated hernia when left to itself, 1 shall pro- bably be about the mark, since cases of strangulated hernia do occa- sionally go up of themselves when all surgical efforts to reduce them have failed less than herniotomy; and, cases of internal strangulation, from whatever cause, do occasionally free themselves. Nevertheless, no prudent mind, on the strength of these exceptional occm’rences, would willingly leave a case of external strangulated hernia to itself with the vague chance of its self-reduction j and I think that no prudent surgeon ought to leave any case of internal hernia or strangu- lation unrelieved with the same almost forlorn hope; because, granting that the diagnosis of the case can he made, by no medicine, no man- ipulation, no expectant treatment can the mechanical obstruction be overcome, and, under these circumstances, a fatal termination must be anticipated. Opium may relieve pain, mask symptoms, and give rise to a pleasing delusion that all is doing well in cases of internal strangulation, as it is well known it does in others of external hernia; but in the one, as in the other, it does no more. It does not accomplish the only true remedy— viz. relieve the mechanical strangulation to which the bowel is subjected. In external hernia, the only recognised correct treatment is hernio- tomy, and I submit that in internal hernia or its equivalent the only sound practice is “laparotomy.” The operation of ovariotomy has proved to us, that the exposure and manipulation of healthy intestine is not of itself a fatal measure, and there is every reason to believe that in the cases now under consideration, a good result might often be secured if the operations were performed before a fatal peritonitis had set in or the strangxilated bowel been in- jured past recovery. At any rate, as matters now stand, a recovery by medical treatment from an internal strangulation is a matter of wonder, and it would be well, as all collateral experience indicates, that a bolder practice should be employed. If we appeal to pathology, and it is only there unfortunately that we can appeal, we receive ample facts, since Dr. Fagge, in his able article already referred to, tells us that “ there might in many Cases have been