OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. 363 tliese cases the iris may be found chanofed into a tense, unyielding membrane, which cannot be seized with forceps. The operation of “ incision” may be performed either by thrusting a broad needle through the cornea near its margin, and then incising the iris, so as to cut across its radial fibres; or an incision having been made with an iridectomy knife in the sclero-corneal margin, a pair of scissors (having one sharp and one blunt-pointed blade) may he introduced through the wound, one blade being thrust through the iris at its nearest point and passed behind it, the other carried along its anterior surface, and the ii’is then cut fairly across from one side to the other. Whichever plan of incision is adopted, the vitreous humour pushes forward into the wound and keeps its edges widely separated, a pupil resembling Fig. 102 A being formed. Two other methods of making an artificial pupil by “ incision ” Iridotoniy. have been lately introduced; they are known as single and double “ iridotomy.” For the positions of patient and surgeon in performing either of these operations, see Fig. 94, p. 340. (6). Single iridotomy should be thus performed:—Tlie eyelids being kept open with the wire speculum, and the eyeball fixed by seizing the conjunctiva and subconjunctival fascia, close to the margiu of the cornea at its inner side, an incision should be made with an iridectomy knife in the cornea, about midway between its margin and the pupil, and opposite to the point of fixation with the forceps. The forceps scissors (Wecker’s, Fig. 101) must be then introduced closed through the wound Wecker’s into the anterior chamber, the blades opened, one passed through scissors, the pupil behind the iris, the other on its anterior surface, and the sphincter of the pupil be divided with one sharp cut. The Fig. 101. Wecker’s scissors. scissors should then be withdrawn, anj' prolapse of iris that follows replaced with the curette, a drop of atropine placed between the lids, and the eye lightly bandaged. This operation is applicable to cases where the lens is present, its centre being opaque and its peripheral portion clear. (e). Double iridotomy is applicable to cases of closed pupil after Double cataract extraction. An incision should be made through the upper iridotomy. part of the cornea, the knife carried through the iris and along its posterior surface, so as to make a fair-sized wound in it; the incision being finished the knife should be carefully withdrawn, and, very Escape of possibly, some vitreous humour will follow it. vitreous. The next step in the operation is to pass the forceps scissors closed, through the wound in the cornea into the .anterior chamber' open them, pass one blade behind the iris, the other in front of it* make an incision in a direction downwards and inwards; then chanee the direction of the scissor blades and make a cut downwards and