127 TTJMOUKS. ii when tliey inflame, they discharge a fetid ichorous pus. They seem to |i attack healthy as well as feeble subjects, and have little effect upon the I general health until they touch vital parts. They appear after middle 1 age, and are to he treated locally, by their destruction—cautery, Treatment of i escharotics, or scalpel being used, as seems most applicable. In local rodent ulcers. ;« sores the knife, when it can be used, is probablyithe best instrument; but ii in others the galvanic cautery is unrivalled. In lieu of this the actual f cautery may be used, and next to this, escharotics; “ the caustic burns • through the entire depth of the solid disease, and upon the casting of ; the subsequent slough, cicatrization is rapidly completed.”—Moore. ( Chloride of zinc, potassa fusa, Vienna paste, or acid nitrate of mercury i may be applied j the zinc rubbed down in a warm mortar with I equal parts of fresh plaster of Paris is probably the best, because it 1 destroys and dries the tissues. Colloid cancer is hardly recognised as a special disease, for the term Colloid I “colloid” is applied to tumours made up of intercellular spaces of variable I sizes, filled with a clear glairy fluid like glue, which contains abundance , of granules and large nucleated cells (Fig. 32). The clinical history of , some of these growths is that of an innocent tumour, whilst in others it is that of a cancerous nature. Colloid tumours are found in the breast, parotid region, ovary, rectum, and intestinal canal. It being known in this last region as the alveolar or gelatiniform cancer. Their true I nature is not yet fully understood. In the case Fig. 27 the patient was 65 years of age, and the disease had been growing for two years. The tumom’ occupied the outer portion of the gland, and had burst the skin covering it in. The colloid growth projected through the opening, the margins of which, however, were not infiltrated with disease. There were no enlai’ged axillary glands. Villous growths may be cancerous as well as benign. When made Villons ; up of cell-elements their cancerous nature is to be suspected, but the growths. I fact is only to be discerned by the clinical career. The nature of villous and colloid disease has been very ably discussed by Mr. Sibley, in I the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxxix, and ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vols. vii, viii, I and ix. The causes of cancer. _ On causes of These are most obscure. Local injury at times appears to have a cancer, very marked influence in determining the seat of a cancer, yet only Local injury, in exceptional cases; one of such occurred to me recently in the case of a boy, mt. 18, who, after an injury to his right spermatic cord, in a few weeks became the subject of a pelvic tumour, which ' rapidly grew, and eventually destroyed life by obstructing the rectum as well as the ureters. After death the tumour was found to have been cancerous, having originated apparently in the right or injured cord, spreading downwards along the vas deferens to the base of the bladder, and subsequently ascending from the pelvis, above the level of the umbilicus. Uereditary iiifluence has always been considered as a very decided Hereditary to cause, still in how small a proportion of cases can any such iufluence. be found? Sir J. Paget traced it in one out of every three; •* Mr. Sibley in one out of every nine; and in 222 cases of my r own, it was traceable only in one of every ten instances. In u many other aflections, even the most innocent, as large a proportion