439 i cessive deposits of fibrinous laminae only take place when the internal ANEURISM. i i I I f k. s i 4 .1 U t I t ( >i 0 u t i f ■ 6 't cure is impossible, and that in the sacculated or fusiform aneurism suc- membrane is absent, from the contact of the blood with the walls of the sac. Fig. 130. Section through an aneurism of the popliteal artery, cured nearly two years before by digital pressure. The aneurism is not dissected out, hut left em- bedded in the popliteal fat, e, e. a. The section edge of the arterial coats were healthy. a, a. The coats in the diseased and occluded part of the artery. Their substance is dispersed and blended with the new fibrous tissue, b, b, which fills the vessel, ^ yet not so much diffused but that they can still be traced to the mouth of the aneurism (Oppo- site the upper c). c, c. The aneurism sac, composed of laminated clot and compressed tissue welded together indefinitely. d. Scarcely laminated clot, filling the hollow of the sac. The vein, with two valves in its lower part is seen close behind the artery. Mr. Poland has recorded a case, probably unique, occurring in the practice of Dr. Adams, of Dublin, of fusiform aneurism of the subclavian, which tends to support this theory. (‘ Med.-Cbir. Trans.,’ vol. lii, 1869.) An aneurism may also be cured by the distal occlusion or plugging Cure of of the artery beyond the sac with a clot that has been dislodged by aneurism the force of the circulation, accident, or design. The vessel at first may be only partially closed by the clot, yet fresh fibrin will soon be deposited upon the “ embolic plug,” and complete obstruction be pro- duced. This natural mode of cure is utilised in the distal operation for the cure of aneurism, and in the cure by manipulation. Recovery cure bv may also be caused by the sloughing of the tumour (suggesting the sloughing of treatment by caustics). It is likewise on record that the artery with which the aneurism is connected may be obstructed either above or below the sac by the pressure of the aneurism itself, either from its Pressure of being bound down by a strong fascia, or from the pressure caused by sac on artery, effused blood following its rupture j and, in the treatment by fiexion, this natural mode of cure is made use of. As an aneurism increases Mode of and encroaches on the neighbouring parts, tissues are separated and extension of even absorbed ; bone may even be gradually worn away by the steady ^“^oem-ism. pressure of the pulsating tumour, so that in thoracic aneurism the sternum may be perforated or the bodies of the vertebrae eaten away,