149 PTJNCTtrRED WOUNDS. By cleanliness is meant not only the absolute cleanlinesss of all in- Cleanlinees. struments, dressing apparatus, and dressers’ fingers, the removal of all putrefying or putrefiable materials from the surface of a wound or its neighbourhood, but the forethought which provides against the collection in as well as for the thorough evacuation from a wound of all pent-up fluid (whether blood, serum, or inflammatory products), by means of drainage openings or drainage tubes; and the care which Uraina^Ki. sees that the air which surrounds the wound is not the vehicle of such infectious elements as may start erysipelas or septicaemic disease. The surgeon ought to know that wounds are as sensitive to outside impi’essions as are puerperal women, and that, in the one case as in the other, as much precaution is necessary to ward oif external pernicious influences. This latter part of the above principle of practice, however, is carried out in many ways; by such surgeons as Langenbeck of Berlin, Kron- lein of Zurich, and Humphry of Cambridge, by the free exposure of the wound to a bath of fresh air; by Professor Lister and his followers by the exclusion of air that has not been rendered free from all germs of pollution by the unremitting use of what is regarded by them as the great germicide, carbolic acid, the wound upon this theory being so dressed as to ensure absence of putrefac- tion.” For my own part, I am no convert to either of these extreme prac- tices or theories, and whilst claiming to be an antiseptic surgeon as much as others, believe that in non-interference, rest, free drainage, and cleanliness, the surgeon can get all he wants. Punctured wounds.—When these are made with sharp and clean On punctured instruments and do not involve any important or diseased struc- wo^nids. tures, they generally do well. When small, they do as well as the incised ; and when large, are not so prone to unite by primary union. When made, however, with Hunt pointed, rough, or dirty instru- ments wounds never heal kindly, for the parts are bruised and torn, as well as separated, by the perforating instrument, and close again as soon as the instrument is withdrawn, thus there is retention of blood, and at a later stage of broken-down tissues, and should these de- compose or mechanically irritate by their presence, inflammation appears with its local and constitutional symptoms. Should im- portant parts be thus injured or the tissues be unhealthy, these results will be worse, aud very serious consequences may then be expected. When tense fasciae, such as is found in the palm of the hand, sole of the foot, and scalp; or, when deep muscles, bound down by fascia, as in the thigh, are punctured, and such results ensue, the consequences are severe. It is probable that it is the bruising and tearing of the tissues that ruake these punctured wounds worse than the incised; bruised and torn tissues rarely healing by primary union. Treatment.-—All punctured wounds, great or small, are to be treated Treatment of with more caution than the incised. The parts should be kept at com- punctured plete rest and elevated, a pad being carefully adjusted over the wound and evenly adjusted pressure applied to the parts. When all proceeds favorably, and repair ensues, the dressings may be left for four or five