DENTAL SURGERY. 588 Direction in The direction in which teeth are withdrawn from their sockets w nc 1 ley depends on the position held by their roots. Upper molars are ex- withdrawn. tracted downwards and outwards; lower molars upwards, and often somewhat backwards; while in order to follow the curves of their respective roots, upper wisdoms should be extracted downwards, back- wards, and outwards, while the crowns of lower wisdom teeth should be carried backwards and upwards. An elevator should not be used in extracting the upper wisdom tooth on account of the fragile nature of the tuberosity of the maxilla in which it is lodged, but may sometimes be used with advan- tage for a lower wisdom when the second molar is sound and firmly implanted. Of impacted Before attempting to extract a buried and impacted lower wisdom lower tooth a careful examination should be made with a probe to see how wisdom. Fig. 247. Tig. 248. A B ABC Fig. 247.—A. Upper stump forceps. | Fig. 248.—Wedge-shaped scoop elevators, which B. Lower stump forceps. | are very useful in extracting buried or much hollow'ed-out roots, such as C. A. Elevator for upper roots. B. One of a pair of elevators, devised by Mr. C. Rogers, for lower stumps. Such a root as C may sometimes be best removed from the upper jaw with an instrument having a spiral cut on it, used Hite a corkscrew. it is situated; sometimes it will be found to bold a horizontal posi- tion, its crown impinging upon and causing absorption of the root of the second molar. In cases where it is possible to extract the impacted tooth, lower hawksbill stump forceps with a double curve and an elevator such as shown in Pig. 2F8, B, will be found very useful. In cases where the ascending ramus would be necessarily in- iured in attempts to remove the wisdom, the second molar should be extracted and then the buried tooth may erupt without further trouble, or can be easily removed if still a source of irritation. Stump forceps, as here figured (Fig. 247), are far better adapted for the extraction ot Of bicuspids, bicuspids than the so-called bicuspid forceps.