329 GLAUCOMA. sive character; pain more or less severe will be complained of, sight rapidly lost, extensive synechise form, the tension of the globe, at first somewhat above par, diminish, and shrinking of the eyeball follow. At any time during the foregoing changes in the injured eye the sound one may become irritable and painful, and a similar inflammation may be set up in it, leading rapidly to a like result. Treatment.—Where sympathetic ophthalmia has been once estab- Treatment, lished, in all probability irreparable damage will be done; the great point to bear in mind is to prevent its occurrence by timely extirpation of the damaged globe (see Extirpation of the Eyeball). Should the disease have become fairly established, little benefit can be expected to result from such extirpation, as the morbid changes will probably con- tinue in the sympathetically inflamed globe, iu spite of the removal of that primarily affected. The sympathetically affected eyeball (or if excision have not been performed both eyes) should be kept carefully bandaged with lint soaked in belladonna lotion; pain must be relieved by the same methods as in cases of iritis. Any constitutional treat- ment that may appear necessary should be employed, and as soon as the more acute inflammatory symptoms have subsided iridectomy should be performed. This operation often exerts a very beneficial influence upon the nutrition of the globe (see Iridectomy), and should be repeated a second or even third time should the new pupil become (as is very likely to be the case) occluded by inflammatory exudations. Should suppurative inflammation be set up in one eye, sympathetic changes need not be feared in the other; it is only in the adhesive form of choroido-iritis that sympathetic ophthalmia is likely to occur. THE VITREOUS HUMOUR. Opacities in the vitreous are frequently met with in cases of myopia. Opacity of and often as the results of choroiditis. vitreous. Inflammation of the vitreous occurs occasionally; it is generally Inflannua- of syphilitic origin or caused by injuries, especially the lodgment of foreign bodies within the globe. Vision becomes misty, and on exami- nation the humour is found to be more or less turbid. Treatment.—Should the inflammation be of syphilitic origin, anti- syphilitic remedies should be employed; should it depend on injury, the eye must be kept bandaged with lint soaked in belladonna lotion, and measures taken to subdue the inflammation. ^ Haemorrhage into the vitreous.—Occasionally bleeding takes place Hsemorrhage. into the vitreous humour to a considerable extent. Impairment of vision is complained of, usually coming on suddenly, and often during some exertion. Examination with the ophthalmoscope (direct method) shows the vitreous chamber to be occupied by a turbid irregular cloud which floats about as the eyeball is moved, gradually sub- sides^ to its lower part when the movements are discontinued, and is stirred up again on the movements of the globe being repeated. The blood becomes absorbed to a greater or less extent in the course of time, but very commonly some permanent opacity is Iridectomy appears to hasten the process of absorption.