663 HEBNIOTOMY. r or yield of the tumour without its reduction—the fear is excited of some j rupture of the bowel having^ taken place, herniotomy by the minor ( operation is inapplicable, and the sac must be laid open. The operation itself.—The patient having been brought under the Mode of I influence of chloroform, should be placed with the shoulders slightly ^“atfon i raised, and the knees flexed upon a pillow, then the integument over » the seat of hernia should be shaved of all hair; an incision can then be 1 made over the neck of the sac, that is, in inguinal hernia, along the line ' of the inguinal canal, from the internal to below the external ring; in |i femoral, over or on the inner side of the crural ring either in a vertical ; or olilique direction in the course of Poupart’s ligament, the former ; being preferable. In this incision all the soft parts should be 1 cut tk'ough consecutively down to the sac, each layer of tissue bemg dividel the full extent of the wound, while aU vessels as they bleed ! should be twisted. Wbm the sac has been exposed, the seat of stricture outside its neck Sac to be t must le felt for with the index finger, and, when felt, a director may be [■ carefuly passed beneath it, Aston Key’s director, shown in Fig. 275, I being >y far the best. Fig. 276. Fig. 276. il Key’siirector passed beneath the seat ot irieture of a strangulated fe- Drawing to illustrate the relative position of moil liernia outside the sac beneath all the abdominal rings from uithin. the aseia propria. Taken from his wor on ‘ Hernia.’ Wth a hernia knife, such as that figured (Fig. 277), straight or ! curvd, or herniotome (Fig. 277), the stricture should then be divided, the I incism upwards being the safest to avoid the epigastric artery (Fig. 276) This division must not be too free—a quarter of an inch being ’ gencally ample in a small heniia. It should, under all circumstances. Division of 1 be oly enough to allow of the return of the hernia without force. It stricture I is biter to have to extend it than to make it too large at first. The