TUMOURS. 107 Fungating and follicular tumours. In neglected examples of sebaceous cyst the contents of the tumour may soften down, and, causing suppuration, may escape externally by nlceration. From the inner surface of the evacuated cyst a new growth may spring up, which, when forming an irregular, fungating, bleeding surface may at times put on an appearance which has been mistaken for cancer. On examining the edges of the wound, however, this mistake can scarcely be long entertained, as it will be at once observed that the edges of the wound are healthy, and not infiltrated with new matter, as would be the case in a cancer (Fig. 18). This fungating growth is really composed of exuberant granulations from the cyst itself, Abernethy recognised Fig. 18. this when he said, “ I have also seen after the bursting of an encysted tnmour the surrounding parts indurate and throw out a fungus, forming a disease appearing like a cancer and which could not be cured.” And “ it is no uncommon circumstance to meet with wens that have burst spontaneously and have thrown out a fungus, which, like a fungous body, pre- vents the surrounding in- tegument from healing.” The best account of the affection is by Mr. Cock (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1852.) Treatment.—The only correct treatment of these cysts, whether whole, broken, or fungating, consists in their removal. In removing wens” or acquired cysts, however, it is not necessary to be too carefnl in dissecting them out entire, the most effective method being to slit open the tumour with a bistoury and then turning it ont with the forceps or handle of the knife; the cyst-wall itself left is closely connected with the skin, but no hann follows. In the removal of sebaceous cysts from other parts of the body the capsule of the cyst should be taken away, while in the fungating tumour the whole ought to be excised. In the (treatment of the congenital tumour it is always better to try and dissect out the cyst entirely ; but nothing is more unsatisfactory than operating in such cases, for the cyst is always deep, its capsule thin and adherent, and any attempt to dissect it out, as a whole, is too often foiled by the bursting or puncturing of the capsule and the escape of its contents. When this occurs the surgeon must take away as much of the capsule as he can and then close the wound, a good result following, as a rule, though at times a recurrence of the growth will ensue. The fear of erysipelas after these operations is really almost ground- less. It may arise, but out of more than one hundred cases consecutively observed, I have not seen one example. Pyaemia may follow this as it does any other minor operation, bnt not more frequently. When patients are cachectic, such an operation of expediency as that for the removal of a “ wen ” had better be postponed, for under low conditions of health blood poisoning is likely to follow. Should, however, its removal be urged, Follicular tumours. Characters. Abemethy’s account. Fungating follicular tumour. Treatment of follicular tumours. Points to be attended to. ■When oper.ation to be postponed.