197 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ligature of the vessels included in their fine cellular sheath has been effected,” and he proved by eases that this can readily be effected through the wound made for the removal of the gland. He condemns any- thing like roughness in the removal of the gland, and believes that the operation he advocates and had successfully performed in five cases, is easy, rapid in execution, and devoid of risk. I cannot forbear, however, from quoting Dr. Greene’s concluding Greene’s remarks, which are so full of sound sense and wisdom. “ I can- remarks, not refrain from one word of warning to my younger brethren, whose ambition may make their fingers tingle, lest they should, in the light of these successful cases, be too easily tempted to interfere with these growths. It is, and always will be, exceedingly rare that any such interference is warrantable, never for relief of deformity or discomfort merely; only to save life, and if it is, beyond all question, determined in any given case that such an operation gives the only chance for snatching a fellow-being from an untimely grave, be it remembered that accurate anatomical knowledge, and a perfect self-control under the most trying ordeals through which a surgeon can pass, are indis- pensable to its best performance.” SURGERY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. CHAPTER VI. CONTUSIONS AND WOUNDS OF THE SCALP.—BLOOD TUMOURS.—OSTITIS. Injuries of the head are always of importance, and however trivial Preliminnr they may appear to be are never to be lightly treated. Although a blow upon the head may not be followed at the time by any symp- toms of brain disturbance, and the only apparent result may be a simple cutaneous bruise, the bone may have suffered as well as the integument; as a consequence, grave results may ensue, since an acute inflammation of the diploe of the skull is a condition fraught with danger, and a chronic inflammation of the bone is scarcely less serious. When, moreover, as a primary effect of injury, evidence exists of brain disturbance, the importance of the case is increased, for brain concussion as a rule means brain bruising, and as a consequence the severest effects may follow the simplest accident. It is well for the student to have these truths impressed on his mind at the beginning of a chapter on injuries to the skull, for they have a practical bearing of vast importance.