174 WARTS. On warts. Flat warts. Pedunculate warts. Venereal warts. Treatment of warts. followed by sinuses, form, till the foot or hand becomes one Indurated diseased mass, riddled with holes the orifices of sinuses which may or inay not lead to bone; and in extreme cases the bones are tunnelled. These sinuses^ discharge freely a putrid sero-purulent fluid, containing “ fungus particles.” The fungi are of two kinds, each, according to Dr. Carter, marking a variety of the disease. One, the dark or dark brown, is globular or ovoid in form, hard and friable in consistence, and of the size varying from a pin’s head to that of a bullet. The.other is pale or yellowish in colour, soft and cheesy in consistence, and of the size of a minute speck or pea. Dr. Carter and others believe that excision or amputation of the affected part is the only sound practice to be adopted. Warts. These are growths of the papillae of the skin, the papillae being usually elongated and their epithelial covering thickened. They are common on the hands and other parts of the body of the young, and more rare in the adult. When on exposed parts of the body, they assume a homy hardness j but when surrounded with moisture or the secretion of the skin, they are soft and more sensitive. The flat wart is called verruca simplex, the pedunculated verruca digitata ; and these are said to be more common in the scalp. I have seen them on the neck, orifice of the nose, mouth, eyes, ears, and anus, also on the prepuce and labia. I have seen them also on the tongue. They occur at times beneath the nails and are very painful—subungual. The worst crop of warts I ever saw was around the anus of a boy. The flat warts occasionally come and go in a way which cannot be accounted for; as a rule, they are, however, persistent. They rarely last into adult life, but when they do they seldom grow or give trouble. In exceptional cases, under some local irritation, they may increase and assume more the character of an epithelial cancer. When on the face this change is peculiarly liable to occur. Not long ago I destroyed an epithelial cancer by the ala of the nose, the size of a florin, that had suddenly appeared in a wart which had existed for sixty years, nearly all the patient’s life, and I have removed from the lip of a man a cancer that had grown from a wart which had existed as long as he could remember. Venereal warts are very abundant, whether they grow from the glans penis or prepuce of the male or labia of the female. They are pedunculated, moist, and highly vascular, and are clearly contagious. Warts, however, may occur at times in these parts without any venereal contact. Treatment.—Some powerful alkali, such as ammonia, to dissolve the cuticle, and the subsequent application of the glacial acetic acid, nitric acid, or acid nitrate of mercury, to destroy the papillaa, is the best plan to get rid of the harder or flat warts. Lunar caustic is an unsatisfac- tory and tedious remedy. Pedunculated drg warts should be cut off with the knife or scissors, and the moist may be treated in the same way when not too extensive. When, however, they are extensive, they may be made to dry up by the application of some powder, such as the oxide of zinc, or even starch. Powdered fresh savine is a good application, Mr. T. Smith recommending it to be mixed with the powdered diace- tate of copper. The perchloride of iron in tincture is also serviceable.