412 LA.CERATION—CONTUSION OF ARTERIES. When contused and over- stretched. Cases. its retraction and contraction, and the lacerated edges of the vessel help the coagulation of the blood. It thus happens often that when a large artery is divided hy laceration no bleeding occurs. I have seen the femoral and brachial arteries torn asunder and no bleeding follow, and whole limbs avulsed from the trunk without heeraorrhage. The lacerated vessel appears under these circum- stances as if drawn out, the elastic external tunic being stretched into a conical form over the inner coats that have been divided and have retracted. An artery divided by laceration or torsion, however large, consequently rarely bleeds, and it was the knowledge of this fact that suggested to Amussat the idea of practising torsion of an artery. When an artery is contused or so stretched as to suffer something less than complete rupture of all its coats, it may become obstructed; and this obstruction is probably caused by a more or less complete circular laceration, or breaking up of its inner tunics; for the different museums contain preparations which prove that an artery so treated, when apparently maintaining its continuity, may have a complete circular laceration of its inner coats, a separation of these coats from the external cellular one, or an incurvation of these tunics into the lumen of the artery, as in torsion (B, Pigs. 116-7); the deposition of clot subsequently taking place within the meshes of the divided coats, and, as a consequence the complete occlusion of the vessel. Fig. 116. Fig. 117. Laceration and recurvation of from preparations now in mission of the surgeons. internal coats of an artery from e.xternal injury. Taken the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital by the kind per- I have known this obstruction to follow many injuries, and have seen the external iliac artery obstructed in a case of a broken pelvis, in one instance followed by gangrene of the lower extremity, and in a second hy cure. I have also known the common femoral artery, the