OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS. 345 thickened portion, by the following operation :—The patient, being in the usual position {see Fig. 94, p. 340), and the lid fi.xed by a compressorium forceps, an incision should be carried through its whole Removal of thickness, parallel with and about two lines distant from its margin, along the whole extent of the thickened portion, with a sharp knife, cartilage. A somewhat lunated incision should then be made from one end of the first around the base of the thickened portion of tarsus joining the first incision at its other extremity; the second incision should not be carried vertically through the cartilage, but obliquely, so as to meet the first at the conjunctival surface; the portion of cartilage included between these incisions should then be removed, the wound closed by sutures, and the eye bound up with lint and a bandage. The skin and muscle covering the cartilage may be removed or not, according to the fancy of the surgeon. If their removal is not desired, they should be dissected back before making the second incision. After the operation the margin of the lid should appear rightly directed. Ectropion signifies an everted condition of the lid; the extent of Ectropion, eversion varies in diflerent cases, from slight falling away of the margin of the lid from the globe to eversion of the whole extent of the lid and adjoining fornix of the conjunctiva. The slighter forms are caused by distension of the lid from inflam- From dis- matory swelling, and are easily remedied by slightly narrowing the tension, palpebral aperture, by paring the edges of the lids near the outer canthus, and bringing the raw surfaces together by a suture, when firm union will take place between the two. The more extreme forms are caused by the contraction of cicatrices From con- of burns, wounds, or inflammatory changes, about the orbit. traction of No definite rules can be laid down with regard to the treatment of these cases. The surgeon must be guided by the conditions as they present themselves, and do the best he can. ^ In any case, if the tarsal cartilage be left entire, it should be carefully dissected away from its attachments and replaced as nearly as possible in its normal position, in which it must be kept by paring its margin and that of the opposite lid, and securing extensive and firm union between them by careful coaptation of their raw surfaces. The lids must not be opened until all further conti'action of the original cicatrix is at an end, and it is better to leave the eye closed for considerably too long a period than to open it a day too soon. Ectropion is also From frequently seen in the more severe forms of ophthalmia or in cases of phoiophobia. severe intolerance of light, and is specially liable to occur w’hen an attempt is made to open a firmly closed eye. In these cases the eversion requires no special treatment, but disappears as the affection causing it is recovered from. Formation of a new eyelid.—In some cases of burn, or from ulcera- Formation of tion of a lupoid character, more or less complete destruction of the IW- eyelids may take place. To remedy this defect, a flap of skin from a neighbouring part may be brought, placed in the gap, and there secured by means of sutures, care being always taken that the piece of skin is considerably larger than the surface it is intended to cover. Before removing any skin, search must be made in any portion of the eyelid Preservation that may be left for the tarsal cartilage, and if this be found it must of taml oe caretully dissected out and preserved, its natural form beine as much as possible restored; it should be fixed in its proper position by