ON SKIN GRAFTING. 161 Wlien the pain is due to an adherent or hulhous nerve, the nerve must Treatment, he freed and removed. When douht as to its condition exists, Mr. Hancock’s suggestion may he adopted, to divide suhcutaneously the suspected nerve. Where no such causes as have been mentioned are to he made out, the case may he treated as one of neuralgia by full doses of quinine, arsenic, or iron, and local sedatives, the extract of stramonium or belladonna rubbed down with glycerine being good applications. Cases, however, of painful stumps or cicatrices are sometimes met with, that defy treatment. Congenital cicatrices are met with in practice. Thus, I have seen on Congenital two occasions a woman who had a cicatrix in her upper lip as if she cicatrices, had been operated upon for harelip (Chapter XII), and bridles connect- ing the lip with the gum in an unusual manner are not uncommon. ON SKIN GBAFTING. Wlien John Hunter a century ago succeeded in transplanting the Suggested by spur of a young chicken from its leg to his comb, as well as into the Hunter, comb of a second bird, and found that it not only lived, but grew, he probably never dreamt in any flight of his genius that the fact which he then established would bo so applied in the practice of surgery as to mark an era in its progress, and to bring a class of cases which surgeons were apt to look upon with little interest amongst the most curable and tractable of local affections. And yet this has come to pass, M. Eeverdin, of Paris, on October 16th, 1869, having succeeded in introduced transplanting small portions of skin taken from one part of a man’s by Reverdin. body to the granulating surface of a large sore, under which treatment the ulcer healed. He read the case before the Surgical Society of Paris on December 15th, 1869, and asked, “ Is the growth of skin due to the efliect of contact or neighbourhood, or is it due to proliferation of the transplanted elements ?” Mr. G. D. Pollock of St. George’s Hospital, encouraged by M. Re- verdin’s success, followed up the practice, and the good results he and his colleagues obtained soon induced all other surgeons to follow in their wake. The facts can be read in the ‘ Transactions of the Clinical Society’ for 1871, and at the present moment it may now be con- sidered as a well-established practice. Since its introduction I have very extensively carried it out, and in most instances with success. I look upon the suggestion as very valuable, its adoption rendering many cases curable that were not so previously, facilitating the cure of as many more, and giving in- terest to a class of patients in whom formerly there was but little. In the management of ulcers it is a great boon, ■while in the treat- ment of the large granulating surfaces so common after extensive burns, its value cannot be overestimated. As an adjuvant to many plastic operations, more particularly on the face and in the case of deformities, it is invaluable. Under the action originated by the transplanted fragments of skin, a Effects of process of repair goes on which at first appears almost magical; the operatioB. grafts soon become islets of skin, round which cicatrisation proceeds; the margin of the sore receives an impulse in cicatrisation, which rapidly extends; and, between the grafts themselves and the margin of the sore connecting links of new skin rapidly form, which divide the VOL. I. 22