DENTAL CARIES OB DECAT. 575 longed presence as a source of irritation are those of periodontal in- { flammation. The nature of the agencies that destroy the dense structures of the t tooth will now be considered, and inasmuch as the sequence of disease, ^ when once the pulp is exposed, is much the same whether the exposure I has occurred through caries, erosion, or fracture, the treatment of pro- igressive dental disease and the various affections of the pulp will be considered and illustrated once for all; and, finally, dental disease external to the root, with its complications, will receive notice. ' The great prevalence of caries at the present day makes it desirable } that its nature and the means for its prevention should be understood. ( These subjects will therefore be discussed somewhat at length. Dental Caries or Decay I may be described as the disintegration of the hard structures of the tooth by decalcification. It always commences on the exterior of a tooth and saps inwards; when the crown is attacked by it, a fault in the enamel is the first step in its course, and may be due to original faulty development or to mechanical or chemical injury. Fracture may produce the enamel lesion. A frequent cause of disintegration of the enamel is the attrition ex- ercised by the sides of crowded teeth on each other, and as this sets up interstitial decay a nidus is thereby formed, which serves as a labora- tory for the production of chemical destructive agents which act on the adjoining tooth. The chemical solvents are formed by acids chiefly derived from the buccal mucus and food mixed with saliva, which—lodging between the teeth and in natural depressions—undergo decomposition. In the formation of acid, carious dentine, when once a cavity is formed, takes I a part. A fungoid growth going by the name of “ leptothrix buccalis,” which i is found in the mouth, is constantly present in carious teeth and pro- 1 bably helps in the disintegrating process. ! Overcrowding of the teeth, viscid buccal mucus giving an acid reac- I tion, a vitiated condition of the fluids of the mouth due to derange- [ ment of the digestive organs, the eating of sweetmeats (as carried by I some young people to a most injurious extent), conduce to decay and I should therefore be avoided or prevented. The condition of the mouth i attendant on fevers accelerates decay. The great preventive of decay is friction, that is, the keeping of the I surfaces of the teeth swept clean of the food, mucus, &c., that tend to lodge between or about them. With this object their lingual as well as labial and buccal surfaces should be brushed night and morning; the direction of the brushing should be always from the gum, i. e, down- wards for the upper and upwards from the lower teeth, as this removes food from between them by the natural lines of clearance; the masti- cating surface of the back teeth should also be brushed. Where the mucus is ropy and clings to the teeth, a saponaceous tooth powder should be used. Rinsing out the mouth after meals is a practice to be generally encouraged, and the use of a weak alkaline mouth wash may with ad- vantage bo had recourse to, in order to correct undue acidity of the oral fluids, and also to neutralise the local efl'ects of strong acid medicine. Caries. Always begins on exterior of tooth. Interstitial decay in one tooth causes decay in the next. Prevention of decay.