DISEASES OP THE THYROID GLAND. 192 Treatment of goitre. Treatment.- Iodine. Pig. CO. Exophthalmic goitre. Wilks’ case. -Simple goitres are to be treated on ordinary principles, viz. by attention to tbe gene- ral health, the inhalation of fresh air, and by tonic medi- cines. Filtered or distilled water should always be taken, more particularly in districts where chalk, lime, and mag- nesia abound. In Derbyshire and the Tyrol districts it is generally believed that it is from the water that the dis- ease is produced. Iodine has always been held in high re- pute in this affection, origi- nally as burnt sponge, and recently in the form of the iodide of potassium, and in four or five-grain doses, given with bark or quinine, this drug is of use. For some years, however, I have given tonics alone by the mouth, and have Iodised air. ordered the air of the room to be kept iodised by means of solid iodine, put into a box with a perforated lid, as akeady described; the metal thus evaporates steadily into the room where the patient sits and sleeps, and in this way it becomes absorbed. Under its influence I have often been surprised to find how rapidly goitres disappear. With this treatment I at times rub in an ointment of the iodide of ammonium, a drachm to an ounce. To paint a goitre with the tincture of iodine is useless, as one application renders the skin hard and incapable of absorp- tion. Dr. K. Stoerk, of Vienna (1874), injects alcohol into the soft parenchymatous and cystic varieties j one or two drachms being intro- duced by means of a Pravaz syringe, tiuning the goitre hard by causing coagulation of its colloid contents. The injections should be repeated at intervals of several days, in different parts of the tumour. He, how- ever, advises that a few drops of iodine should be added to the alcohol to prevent fermentation taking place. Dr. Liicke, of Berne, is in the habit of treating hard goitres by injecting strong tincture of iodine into the tumour, one or more punctures being made at a time, according to the size of the tumour, and he reports with good success. (‘ Lancet,’ 1859.) Dr. Mouat, of Bengal, spoke (‘ In, Annals of Med. Science,’ 1857) very Biniodide of highly in favour of the use of biniodide of mercury in combination with the rays of the sun, for the cure of goitre. He used the mercury as an ointment of the strength of three drachms to a pound of lard. It was rubbed in for ten minutes, an hour after sunrise, and the patient had afterwards to sit with his goitre held well up to the sun, as long as he could endure it. After this a fresh layer of ointment was to be applied with a careful and tender hand, the patient sent home, and the ointment left to be absorbed. In ordinary cases this treatment was said to have been sufficient to effect a cure, and that only in exceptional cases was a fresh application necessary. He gives hiscasesof recovery by thousands. It is possible that in this country the treatment has failed for want of the rays of the sun. I have tried it without the slightest beneficial result. uiercmy.