DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. -544 Dentigerous tumours. Polypi of the antrum. Examples. Tumours of the upper jaw. Varieties. The fibrous. The fibro-plastic. The cartilaginous. Pig. 217 Dentigerous tumour of jaw. cyst. This can be done with a knife or a sharp pair of forceps, alter a perforating wound has been made by a trephine, drill, gouge| or pointed instrument. To induce suppuration of the cyst, it is a good practice to plug the cavity with lint. When the cavity is hirge, it is wise to take away a considerable portion of its wall. Removal of a segment of hone for cystic disease is rarely needed. Before, however, the pathology was understood this malpractice was often perpetrated, as our different museums too truly testify. Dentigerous tumours may likewise occur. In Fig. 217 is illustrated a case, in which I removed the upper jaw of a child, set. 8, for a nearly solid myeloid tumour of the jaw elearly originating in a malplaced tooth which was growing from the posterior part of the orbital plate of the hone; one or two cysts existed in the growth enough to allow of its being called cystic. There was no pos- sibility of making a diagnosis in this instance ; such examples are very rare. Tumours of the jaws. These are of different kinds, simple and malignant, connected and unconnected with teeth. When in the antrum, their dental origin should he suspected, but in both upper and lower jaws, solid tumours of all kinds have been found with teeth as their centres. Polypi of the antrum—as are those of the nose—are occasionally met with, and they show themselves mostly as projections into and through the nostril, the tumour making its way through the nasal wall of the antrum, and, at the same time, generally expanding its facial waU. I have seen four weU-marked cases of this sort, and in two the whole mass was removed through the nostril, which was laid open, and turned hack. In the third, the cheek was reflected outwards at the same time, and a large opening made into the antrum allowing the surgeon to scoop out the growth. Two of these cases occurred in the practice of Mr. Cock, and two in my own. Tumours of the upper jaw.—Weber, quoted by Heath, informs us, that in an analysis of 307 cases of tumours of the upper jaw, more than one thu-d of the whole number may he set down as sarcomatous simple tumours, one third as osseous, and less than one third cancerous, the myeloid being included in one of these groups. They may grow also from any part of the hone or perios- teum. When they originate in the antrum they expand its cavity, as is the case in the cystic disease, and cause a bulging of one or more of its walls. When they spring from a sm-face or plate, the tumour will project from it, leaving the other surfaces unaffected. The flhrous in aU its forms and the osseous are usually of slow growth. They are often painless, and trouble only from their size. The flbro-plastic, myeloid, and cancerous are of more rapid gi-owth. The fibrous or fibro-plastic are usually periosteal growths, the osseous, myeloid, and cancerous endosteal. The cartilaguious are very variable in their progress, now very slow and then rapid. They are chiefly of the mixed kind, fibre tissue largely predominating in tumoiu-s of slow