443 TREATMENT OE ANEURISM. complete stagnation of a mass of blood in the aneurism until it coagu- lates.” For this purpose digital pressure is undoubtedly the best; but when it cannot be made available, mechanical means must be employed, and the nearer it approaches to digital pressure, the more is it undoubt- edly to be preferred. The practice is theoretically sound and prac- tically safe, and is capable by itself of curing the majority of surgical Digital aneurisms, and even some that are internal. If, however, it does not pressure succeed in curing every case in which it is employed, it doubtless helps, practicable, both by promoting coagulation of the blood in the sac, and by pro- ducing enlargement of the collateral vessels. When the rapid treat- ment is employed, the administration of some anaesthetic may be called for, and as its influence is required to be kept up for hours, an additional danger to the treatment has to be taken into account. In other respects the success of the “ rapid pressure” treatment has been satisfactory, Mr. Holmes recording in his lecture before the College of Surgeons in 1874, that out of twenty-three cases in which it has been carried out, fifteen were cured. In those, however, in which rapid pressure has been used and failed, the application of the liga- ture has never succeeded. It is applicable only in cases in which the more usual forms of practice are inapplicable or have failed. Compression should not be attempted where evidence exists of pres- When sure upon the main vein of the limb, as indicated by oedema; or, where unadvisnble. the aneurism is rapidly increasing, or a rupture of the aneurism appears imminent, because in such cases a ligature should be applied to the arterial trunk. It should not be persevered with when sloughing of the skin has been induced; nor ought it, when, from some constitutional irritability, indocility, or stupidity, the patient fails to second the sur- geon’s aim; for to make the patient understand the objects which the surgeon has in view is doubtless a valuable means of guaranteeing their successful accomplishment. At least, four cases of aneurism of the neck have been cured by digital compression of the common carotid, and M. Rouge, of Lausanne, reports another in which a man, set. 68, had a carotid aneurism cured iu seventeen days by lateral pressure between the thumb, in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle and the fingers behind (‘ Bull, de la Soc. de Chir.,’ 1868, p. 464). Mr. Gay has also apparently cured a carotid aneurism by the same process (‘ Lancet.’ Holmes’ Lect. 1873). Digital pressure in order to be successful must be well applied; when indifferently carried out, it is probably less to be relied upon than instrumental pressure. ^ To keep up a steady pressure upon the trunk On mode of ot any artery for any time consecutively, is a difficult task; and few application of men could do it more than ten minutes. What is wanted is the steady ’^Shal equal pressure of a finger or thumb applied directly over the vessel nhich is to be compresssed, such pressure being so adjusted as to be efficient to arrest the flow of blood through the artery, but no more. Greater pressure than this is a waste of power on the part of,the sur- geon, and a cause of needless distress to the patient. Neither vein nor nerve need be much pressed upon as a rule, nor much pain produced, lo carry out this treatment three good men should be employed for our or five hours consecutively, each iu rotation carefully applying pressure for ten minutes at a time. By adopting this practice I hayt cured an aneurism of the thigh in twenty-four hours, and in other cases even less time has sufficed. In a case I recorded iu ‘ Guy’s Examples.