76 GLANDEKS. Glanders. Varieties. Symptoms. Characteris- tic eruption. Virchow’s view of the pustules. Wlien attacking the nose. Glanders. This is a specific disease given toman by inoculation from the horse. Dr. Elliotson first recognised its true nature, and described it under the term Equinia. It shows itself in two forms. In one the dis- ease attacks the mucous membrane of the nose and the neighbouring glands, and is then termed “glanders." In the other it affects the lymphatics of the body generally, giving rise to tumours or a knotty condition of the subcutaneous glands, called “farcy huds,” and is therefore called “farcy." In man, these two forms are generally found together. There is said to be a stage of incubation varying from two to fifteen days from the inoculation, after which febrile symptoms with excitement appear, followed by the specific eruption. The pains in the limbs ac- companying the febrile condition are generally associated with tender- ness wherever glands exist, and, on examination, some enlargement of these glands will be found. The eruption is very characteristic, being made up of a crop of vesicles, which become pustular, and are very hard, resembling those of variola more than anything else. They are arranged in groups, with inflamed bases, the face, neck, and abdomen being, as a rule, more covered than the extremities; when close together, they become confluent. These pustules, with their indurated bases, then soften down, leaving ulcerated excavated surfaces. They affect the mucous lining of the nose, giving rise to the discharge. Virchow says that “ these so-called pustules are really due to the presence of a tena- cious deposit in the corium of the skin, which has much resemblance to tubercle, and microscopically is made up of an amorphous granular appearance mixed with cell-elements, cell-growths, and fat-globules.” (‘ Handbuch.’) This opinion is supported by the clinical fact that tubercles in farcy are so often found in the subcutaneous tissue, appear- ing as hard circumscribed blind boils, or swellings, more or less dif- fused. Tliese soften down, giving rise to extensive sloughing of the skin and surrounding parts, and are rarely absorbed. During the progress of the disease, soft tumours, not unlike pyaemic cutaneous abscesses, appear about the body, sometimes attacking deeper parts. In the more advanced stages of the disease, these tubercles or so-called pustules attack the larynx and whole respiratory tract, and more pai'ticularly the lungs, giving rise to Virchow’s pneumonia of glanders, an aflec- tion consisting of a series of tubercles beneath the pleura covering the lungs, surrounded by lobular pneumonic inflammation, as in pymmia. These tubercles are said to have been found in the testicles, kidneys, pancreas, and joints. When they attack the nose, which they usually do at an early period, often before they appear in other parts, the secre- tion from the nose is at first catarrhal, thin, and clear, subsequently thick, tenacious, and puriform, often mixed with blood, but in many cases it is altogether absent or not noticed till a later period of the disease. The face and head often swell from oedema, presenting a puffy, erysipelatous, shining surface; the conjunctiva also secretes a thick secretion, glueing the eyelids. The tonsils are frequently involved, and often suppurate. As the disease progresses the swellings and discharge increase, the inflammation around spreads and becomes gan- grenous, bullffi appear on the skin, the constitutional symptoms become typhoid, a low delirium sets in, not unlike that from pyaemia, and