ULCERATION OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 719 through the sigmoid flexure and rectum gives rise to a slight griping paiu, but beyond this, there are few general symptoms. On examining a rectum under these circumstances, a single ulcer will probably be found, but occasionally others. It may be somewhat indurated at its edges, though its base is not so as a whole. It is often circular, and at times surrounding half the rectum. In the case of a boy, set. 16, under my treatment, the surface of the ulcer was so nodular that I should have suspected its cancerous nature had I met with it in an adult, hut in this instance it had existed for many months, and the granulations had assumed a polypoid nature. It ended in a recovery. These simple ulcers Prone to are also likely to perforate the bladder and to induce recto-vesical form fisiuln. fi.stula. I have had five such cases, and in four, colotomy was per- formed with success, the operation taking away the chief source of dis- tress, viz. the passage of faeces with the urine—prolonging life, and apparently allowing the ulcers to heal. {Vide paper by author, ‘ Clinical Soc.,’ 1872.) These cases can be treated by general means, such as a careful Treatment of regulation of the diet, alkaline medicines with tonics, the administra- ulcers, tion of laxatives such as the mistura olei to cause and maintain a soft condition of the faeces, and the daily administration of a small two- ounce enema of starch and opium, or simple oil. The recijmbent position should be maintained as much as possible. Under these circumstances a good recovery generally takes place. When these ulcers involve the anus, they give rise to the same painful symptoms as the painful ulcer of the anus, and must be treated in a similar way, viz. by division of the superficial fibres of the sphincter. Syphilitic disease of the rectum is a more common affection and is Sypliilitic met with in both sexes, though more frequently in women than in men, ■ the disease apparently creeping from the vagina to the rectum. Occa- sionally it is due, doubtless, to direct introductiou of the poisou. It appears as a more or less extensive ulceration of the lower two inches of the rectum; and, as a rule, involving the anus, as well as passing higher up the rectum. It is a disease of the mucous and submucous tissues, and is indicated in its early stage by a spongy induration of these tissues, and later by ulceration and the discharge of a highly irritating sero-purulent or sanguineous discharge and by a patulous anus. The anus itself may also be the seat of the lateral, flattened, fleshy, cutaneous outgrowth so common in syphilis, or it may be ulcerated. It is generally a disease of young adult life, and associated with Symptoms, some syphilitic history. There is almost always some pain in the act of defmcation, some looseness of the bowels, and discharge of blood, pus, or mucus. Anal or vaginal fistulm sometimes complicate the case. In neglected cases where cicatrization has gone on with spreading ulceration, there may be constipation and some stricture; indeed, as a cause of stricture of the rectum, this syphilitic disease is by no means unusual. Treatment.—Recognising its syphilitic origin, large doses of the Treatment of iodide of potassium ought to be given, five grains three times a day gradually increased to ten or twenty in some bitter infusion or bark ; rectum.” but when tonics are indicated, they may be given in combination. The bowels should bo kept slightly loose by the daily dose of olive oil or castor oil, so regulated as not to purge, and the daily employment of