AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 400 Prognosis. the mouth or from an india-rubber bag through the catheter. By these three last methods you will obtain—the Eustachian tubes being open— a sound more or less of a hissing character, depending upon the rush of a column of air through a small orifice. The usual causes of the per- foration of the membrane apart from those of a traumatic origin are scarlet fever, measles, tuberculosis, and any greatly debilitating affec- tion in which the mucous membranes are affected. The prognosis is regulated greatly by the dyscrasia present, but it ought always to be remembered that a perforation may heal without ; leaving any discernible pathological changes, and without in the slightest recognisable degree lessening the power of hearing. The hopes for such a happy result are the greater the shorter the acute attack which has caused the perforation, while it is rare after a chronic affection accompanied by otorrhoea j but no opinion ought to be hazarded till you have carefully washed out the ear and seen the extent of the perforation and losses which have already resulted there- from. The process of healing is known by a gradual diminution of the secretion and of the perforation, the cicatrix being formed by the dermoid and mucous layers, but of a much more delicate structure than the natural layers, and not separable into laminae. The hopes of Treatment of cicatrisation are at an end for the time when the edges of the perfora- perforation. become cicatrised and a gap still remains, but a new impetus may be given to the regeneration by any future affection which causes a hyperaemia in the part and a softening of the cicatricial edges of : the perforation. In the treatment of a perforation the rule is to close it if possible, on account of tbe exposure, caused by the perforation of the tender - mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity to cold air or water, dust and other foreign bodies. These by their irritation may cause a purulent discharge, and that being once present may lead to results of the most disastrous nature. But if the perforation have existed some time, and 1 be of a considerable extent, the question arises whether the closing ■ of the perforation will not impair the patient’s hearing power, and 1 before doing anything to close such it is advisable to temporarily close t the gap by a drop of glycerine or other thick fluid and note the effects. . Should the result be to lessen the hearing power to any considerable ; extent, you must carefully consider the probabilities before deter- ■ mining upon your action. While the affection is still in the acute j stage, the keeping of the parts clean by gentle injections, and the ■ use of some slight astringents for the purpose of reducing the secre- tion of the membrane and bringing it into a more normal condition, , are all that are required, with the use of a little wadding in the ear • when the patient goes out, unless the weather is very mild, when tbe ^ latter may be dispensed with. Should discharge be present which by some means has become thickened, and by its presence closes or tends ; to close the Eustachian tube, Politzer’s operation ought to be done now i and again ; and if this is not sufficient of itself the softening of such an accnmulation by an alkaline solution as bicarbonate of soda 5ss—jj to an ounce of water, and then the Politzeration will suffice to remove it. . Should you determine to try to close a large perforation you carefully f and gently stimulate the edges of the perforation by the application to j them of nitrate of silver or other irritant, either in solution or by touch- • ing the moistened edges with a thin layer of the crystals placed on a t Closure of perforation,