242 ON TRISMUS AND TETANUS. Definition. Varieties. Infantile tetanus. Predisposing causes. when the subject of syphilis is considered, ought to be carefully fol- lowed out. M. Aran, ‘Archives Gdnfirales de Mddecine,’ ViU.—Cock, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1842. —Hewett, ‘ System of Surgery,’ by Holmes, Sec. Ed., 1870.—Groa Clark, ‘ Lectures at Royal College of Surgeons,’ 1869.—Po», ‘ Injuries of the Head,’ 1768.—e«f/me, ‘ Com- mentaries in Surgery,’ 1853.—‘ Erichsen’s Surgery,’ 5th Ed., 1869.—Hutchinson’s Prize Essay (Astley Cooper), 1865.—Brodie, ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’vol. xiv.—WHka andMaxon’s ‘ Lectures on Pathology.’—Callender, ‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Reports,’ vols. i and iii. —Hilton, “Clinical Lectures,” ‘Lancet,’ 1853.—iV«7«fow, Attlee’s edition, 1855.—Ga»ia, ‘Traitds des Plaies de T6te,’ 1835.—Adams, ‘Cooper’s Surg. Dietionary,’ 1861.—J. Nendorfer, M.D., Prague, ‘Handbuch der Kriegschirurgie,’ 1867.—Pirogoff, N. Leipzig, 1864.—Stromeyer’s edition of IV. Mac Cormac's ‘ Notes of an Ambulance Surgeon,’ 1871. ON TRISMUS AND TETANUS. When a patient is the subject of an uncontrollable spasmodic con- traction of the muscles of the lower jaw, he is said to have ‘'trismus” or lockjaw; and when the same condition attacks other or all the voluntary muscles of the body, he is said to have “ tetanus” Tetanus includes trismus, and generally begins with it; though trismus may be a local affection. It is found in children as a result of dentition, and in adults, as a consequence of diseases involving the teeth, gums, or jaws. It is a spasmodic affection, produced by reflected irritation set up by a local disease, is rarely associated with any constitutional disturbance, and is, for the most part, cured on the removal of its cause. Tetanus is likewise generally associated with some local source of irritation, some wound or injury; and is then called "traumatic.” When no external or visible cause can be made out, it is denominated "idiopathic,” When rapid in its course, it is called "acute;” when slow, "chronic.” The acute form is usually the-result of an accident, and generally fatal. The chronic is for the most part idiopathic, and more curable. Tetanus nascentium.—Tetanus is met with in new-born infants, and is then known as trismus nascentium, or tetanies infantum. It usually comes on the second week after birth, and may be so acute in its course as to destroy life in from ten to thirty hours; or life may be prolonged to eight or nine days. It is a common affection in the West Indies, and has been known to occur frequently in ill-ventilated lying-in hospitals. Bad ventilation consequently has been put down as one of its causes, the others being cold, exposure, internal irritation, and the division of the umbilical cord. Predisposing causes of tetanus.—Dismissing the last form of the disease from our consideration, it seems that tetanus may be found at any period of life, though more than half of the cases occur between ten and thirty years of age. The youngest case on record was in a child of twenty-two months, and the oldest in an adult of seventy-five years. It is more common in males than in females, and the proportion is as seven to one. It is found in the healthy as frequently as in the cachectic, nor do the intemperate seem more prone to its attack than the temperate. It is, too, as frequent in the winter as in the summer months ; though in warm climates the natives are more susceptible to its attacks than Europeans. Exposure to damp, cold, or sudden changes of temperature, have doubtless a power- ful influence in exciting this disease, both in the idiopathic and trau-