ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. 318 I modic contraction of the orbicularis may be kept up by the irritation of small fissures at the outer cantbus; in such a free division of the junction of the lids and orbicularis by cutting through the cantbus will often effect a speedy cure. The inhalation of chloroform is also said to act beneficially in some cases. I Iridectomy. If in a case of suppuration or sloughing perforation of the cornea ! appear imminent, iridectomy should be performed {see p. 359). 1 Constitu- Constitutional treatment.—Simple corneitis requires no constitutional I ■ treatment. In the interstitial form antisyphilitic remedies should be j employed; to older patients the bichloride of mercury in doses of one sixteenth to one twelfth of a grain, combined with bark or other tonic, should be given twice or three times a day; to young children hyd. cum cret. gr. j to v three times a day. The other forms of corneitis, especially the pustular, are best treated by the administrat ion of tonics, as steel wine, tincture of per- i chloride of iron, quinine, &c.; and in strumous children cod-liver oil ! should also be prescribed, with good living and plenty of fresh air. Ulcers of the Ulcers of the cornea present a great variety of forms. They may be cornea. transparent or opaque; they may be healing, indolent, vascular, or sloughing. The depth to which the corneal tissue is destroyed varies from slight abrasion of its surface to destruction of its whole thickness, causing perforation. The area of the cornea which is destroyed also varies from a small point to its whole surface. Ulcers are sometimes described as marginal or central, according to their position. Ulceration of the cornea is constantly met with in cases of debility, from whatever cause arising. It is very common in patients recovering from acute diseases, as measles, scarlatina, and more especially smallpox, from impaired nutrition, not from forma- tion of pustules or eruption on the cornea. Children are much more frequently affected than adults. ! The symptoms of ulceration are very similar to those of corneitis. I On examination any kind of ulceration may be found (one variety has ' been mentioned under Pustular corneitis). There may be one or more small transparent ulcers, which can only be seen in certain lights, and I are very likely to be overlooked. They appear like small abrasions of I the epithelium; sometimes the greater part of the sm-face of the Transparent cornea is found to be affected either by several small transparent ulcers ulcer. Qj. Qjjg large one. This form of ulceration is most commonly met with in adults of irritable, nervous temperament, and should always be carefully looked for when a patient of this description presents himself suffering fi’om severe intolerance of light, watering of the eye, and smarting pain, without any very apparent cause. Opaque ulcer. Opaque ulcers are visible enough; they may he of any size or number. At times they appear to be healing, in which case the edges appear smooth and the surface of the ulcer rough and opaque or cloudy. At others they are indolent, and again they may be spreading, when their edges are found to be clean cut, as if a piece of the cornea had been punched out by some sharp instrument; the surface of the ulcer appears glassy, and is often deeply excavated. Slouehino’ Sloughing ulcer is more or less opaque, spreads rapidly, both in area ulcer. “ and depth, and if the process be not soon arrested the cornea will be perforated, and a prolapse of the iris of greater or less extent (according