383 TUMOURS OF THE EYEBALL. { cavity. The existence of a node deep in the orbit should always he suspected in cases of paralysis of any of the ocular muscles, dis- placement of the eyeball, &c., if these symptoms be associated with nodes on the forehead or margin of the orbit and other symptoms of 1 syphilis. Nodes gradually disappear under anti-syphilitic treatment, j Sarcomatous or cancerous growth may be met with, and when possible they should be removed by operation. Tumours of Orbit and Eyeball. The tumours affecting the orbit and eyeball are malignant growths Tumours of which have usually commenced within the eyeball and afterwards perforated the tunics and implicated the tissues of the orbit. They ^ are generally of the variety known as melanotic sarcoma. The appearance of the tumour varies according to the stage of Melanotic growth at which it has arrived. In an advanced case a large fungoid cancer, mass of a dirty greyish or brownish colour, having a foul surface covered in parts with dark scabs, in others discharging thin unhealthy matter occasionally mixed with blood, will be seen protruding between the swollen and distended lids. On closer examination the eyeball (as such) will be found nearly destroyed, portions of the sclerotic alone remaining in their proper position. The movements of the globe are much impaired, or altogether wanting, the growth having implicated the whole of the tissues of the orbit in one malignant mass. It is I curious how the growth as it advances beyond the limits of the eyeball I loses its melanotic character and becomes light coloured. 1 The constitutional disturbance in these cases is often severe, espe- Constitu- \ cially when the disease is far advanced. tion»l 1 Treatment.—The treatment of these growths depends much on the Tr*e"tmcnt*' if extent to which the tissues of the orbit are implicated and the state ( of the patient’s health. ' If the tumour is fairlj' circumscribed, so that there appears to be a di reasonable hope of removing the whole, and the patient is in such a ^ state of health as to preclude the likelihood of similar deposits in ti other parts, extirpation of the eyeball and other diseased tissues should w be performed, any portions of growth that may be left being after- fi wards destroyed by some escharotic. But should the orbit be so filled If by cancerous deposit that there appears to be little hope of removing ■t the whole growth, more especially if the patient is in a cachectic con- fO dition, no operation should be thought of, and the surgeon must con- i tent himself with palliative treatment, as opiates to relieve pain, and a attention to the general health. f! (2) Sarcomata, melanotic, round, and spindle-celled. (i (3) Carcinoma. 1 (4) Strumous deposit. (J Glioma is most commonly met with in children, but occasionally in 1 older persons. I ^ Sarcomata, melanotic, round, or spindle-celled, are usually met with K in persons of from fifty to sixty years old, and occasionally in early i adult life. The melanotic is the most common form. I Carcinoma has been met with in persons past the middle period of ' life, but its occurrence is rare. (1) Glioma. Tumours of the Eyeball. Tumours of tbe eyeball. 1