AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT. 379 must be prevented by uniting their edges (see Operations on the Eye- lids). If any pieces of bone are found loose they should be removed by Removal of ,• ^ dead boue. operation. Hsemorrhage into the orbit. Orbital hemorrhage may depend upon the spontaneous rupture of a Orbital vessel within the orbit, and should it be considerable, may produce displacement of the eyeball. The blood may become diffused, and appear Spontaneous, beneath the conjunctiva, being subsequently gradually removed by ab- sorption ; occasionally, however, the clot becomes encysted, and per- manent displacement of the eyeball results. Haemorrhage into the orbit also occurs in fracture of its walls frequently to a considerable extent; From injury, subconjunctival ecchymosis being a prominent symptom in some cases of fracture of the base of the skull extending through the roof of the orbit. Haemorrhage sufficient to cause displacement of the eyeball has occurred after the operation for strabismus. Treatment.—In cases of spontaneous haemorrhage light pressure Treatment, should be applied to the eye by a pad of lint or cotton wool and a ban- dage. Where excessive haemorrhage occurs after operations for stra- bismus a large pad of lint should be placed on the closed lids, and firm pressure by means of a bandage kept up for a few hours after the operation. Haemorrhage from fracture of the orbital walls is only of secondary importance to the injury which caused it, and may be left to itself; it is of more interest to the genei’al surgeon than the specialist. Vascular protrusion of the eyeball. Vascular This is the name applied, and very justly, by Mr. Thomas Nunneley protrusion. (‘ Medico-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlviii) to a set of cases formerly considered to belong to the class of “ aneurism by anastomosis,” but which Mr. Nunneley shows differ in many essentials from the latter affection, both in their clinical aspect and history. He has also had ojqiortuuities of verifying his diagnosis by post-mortem examination, and in no case has he met with an instance of the above-mentioned affection due to this cause. Mr. Nunneley has reported in all seven cases, and mentions some ten or twelve others described by various writers. The cases reported are chiefiy either instances of traumatic aneurism, or aneurism arising spontaneously from rupture of a diseased artery in an elderly person ; but in oue case a cancerous growth was found involving the orbit and other parts. The symptoms complained of by the patient are, noise in the head Symptoms, and feeling of tension, singing in the ears, pain in the orbit and eye- ball, all of w'hich are aggravated by stooping or exertion, but are never- theless most annoying at night. These symptoms are accompanied by more or less protrusion and impaired mobility of the eyeball, dimness of vision, much congestion, principally venous, of the eyelids and con- junctiva, and chemosis; pulsation (w'hich may be controlled by pressure on the carotid of the same side) in any part of the orbit, and communicated to the ej’eball, and often a bruit heard on auscultation over the brow' or other parts immediately adjoining the orbit. ° In most cases these symptoms have come on at a varying time, after some injury to the head, or have occurred spontaneously and suddenly.