515 CYSTIC TUMOURS OP THE LIP. Chancres, syphilitic or otherwise, are at times met with on the lips. Chancre on and so the surgeon should be on his guard not to mistake them for hp. cancer. They have neither the clinical history nor aspect of such an affection, hut make much more rapid progress. They are likewise usually attended with considerable inflammatory swelling as well as with secondary glandular enlargement. They are, moreover, usually met with in younger subjects than is cancer. When syphilitic, the constitutional symptoms will mark their true nature. Hypertrophy of the Mucous Glands of the Lip. The mucous covering of the lip is often found to be thickened, two Hypertrophy elevated or pendulous portions of tissue appearing, one on either side of of the mucous the middle line. This condition authors have described as Hypertrophy, ® though the name does not appear to be correct, for, on removing the so- called hypertrophied mucous membrane, a number of small granular 1 bodies the size of hemp-seeds, and made up of gland-cells, are always found underlying a healthy mucous I membrane. The disease appears, [ therefore, to be due to an increase i in the size of the natural glands, and not of the mucous membrane of the part (Fig. 189). It should be I treated only by the careful excision 1 of the diseased submucous tissue— the incision being made in the line of the lip, and the edges brought j together by fine sutures. I have seen c as many of such cases in the upper 1 as in the lower lip; and rarely does t. it involve both lips. I have never f known it to recur, j A genuine hypertrophy of the lip [ itself is a common affection. It often i begins as a chronic inflammation of the part, or rather oedema, the in- i flammatory deposit becoming organised. There can be little doubt that c many of the so-called thick strumous lips have this origin. Attention 1 to the general health and its improvement are the means by which any ; cure may be expected. Cystic Tumours of the Lip. Cystic 1 Mucous cysts are often seen and generally in the lower lip. They i appear as tense, globular, and at times semi-translucent tumours be- ! neath the mucous membrane, and are readily cured by excision or ■: by cutting off their upper wall by means of scissors and sharp-pointed i forceps. An incision into them rarely does good. They contain a 1 glairy mucoid fluid. On several occasions, I have turned out of the lip, kdcuoid I from beneath the mucous membrane, solid encysted tumours, with a glandular structure. ' Nsevi of the lip are often seen, and when they involve the whole thickness of the part their excision by a V incision is the best treat- ment. I have done this on many occasions with a beneficial result. When they are only superficial or beneath the mucous lining, they may be treated locally, as already mentioned in the chapter on nsevus.