ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 666 Wtien bowel is in doubtful condition. Causes of death in hernia. [ When omentum in sac. Risks in removing omentum. gut in the orifice of the sac, for plastic lymph will probably be poured out within a few hours, and the parts sealed from the abdominal cavity. When the bowel is in a doubtful condition, and the surgeon is not certain whether he can say it is irreparably dead, or going to die, the abdominal cavity is still its best place, when it can be returned. Aston Key advocated this plan many years ago, and modern experience has not disproved its value. “ The danger of abdominal extravasation will not be increased by replacing the injured bowel at the neck of the sac ; for, should sloughing of its coats ensue, the slough.maybe walled in by adhesion of the surrounding peritoneum and faecal extravasation be prevented.” (Key, ‘ Guy’s Eep.,’ 1842.) In an inquiry in 1856 into the causes of death in hernia founded on an analysis of 156 fatal cases, the same conclusion was arrived at. The weight of evidence led me then to express the opinion that there is only one condition of intestine in which its reduction to the neck of the sac is not advantageous, and that is, when it is decidedly ruptured by gangrene or ulceration, my own materials tending to support the opinion of Mr. Aston Key, as stated to the writer, in 1849, “ that in all conditions of the intestines, the abdomen was their right place.” Mr. Hutchinson, who believes peritonitis to be the direct result of the reduction of an injured bowel into the abdominal cavity, advises in all cases that the damaged gut, if found in a bad condition, should be left in the sac; while Dr. Girard goes further, advising the contents of the hernia, under all circumstances, to be left—the surgeon content- ing himself by freely dividing the stricture. 1 cannot concur in this practice, nor with the principle on which it is based. When the contents cannot be returned on account of adhesions, the neck of the sac should be incised and the case left to nature. In large umbilical herniae also, this practice is valuable. When omentum is found in the sac with intestine, and has only recently descended, it may be returned. When it has been down for some time, is irreducible, and is only a small piece, it should be left alone; the omentum, doubtless, often acting as a plug to the orifice of the sac. When it is diseased or in large quantities, it should be liga- tured in two or more portions and cut off—the ligatures being applied as near to the neck of the sac as possible, care being observed not to disturb the parts at the neck. Simply to cut off the omentum and to tie or twist the vessels is risky, the omentum always being highly vascular, and small vessels being apt to bleed much; indeed, cases are on record in which a fatal hsemorrhage supervened after this practice. When diseased omentum is left in the sac, prolonged suppuration often follows. Whenever intestine and omentum are found together in a hernia, much care is required. The intestine is generally to be sought for behind the omentum, but is often wrapped up in it, and, in not a few cases, covered by an omental sac. Under all these circumstances, the intestine should be exposed and carefully reduced, care being taken that no adhesions at the neck of the sac or no bands, bind the bowel down to the omentum thereby keeping up the strangulation. An omental sac is on no account to be returned into the abdomen unopened. Omental sacs are generally found in femoral hernia. An interesting paper by Mr. Prescott Hewett (‘Med.-Chlr. Trans.,’ 1844) may be referred to on this subject.