689 ON TRUSSES. gulated an operation must be performed, the surgeon making such an incision as will best expose the tumour and its neck. Diaphragmatic hernia is met with as the result of an accident On dia- (traumatic), and is generally fatal; it has been alluded to under the heading of “Abdominal Injuries,” page 607. It may also be the result of some “ congenital” defect, or the pushing of the abdominal viscera through a natural or other opening in the muscle (acquired form). It rarely calls for surgical aid. On Trusses. A truss is on instrument employed for the purpose of preventing the Description descent of a hernia. It is composed of a pad, to be placed over the ” seat of the hernial protrusion, and a spring or belt to keep it in posi- tion. Any truss that will keep up the hernia under all circumstances, and does not cause pain or lasting discomfort, is probably beneficial. Every truss that fails to carry out this object should be condemned. An instrument with a too feeble spring is a delusion and snare; but one that is too powerful may tend to do more eventual harm than present good by causing absorption of the abdominal parietes upon which it presses, and, as a consequence, enlargement of the opening tlirough which the hernia descends. For the same reason a pad that is unduly convex is also to be condemned. A truss that will keep up one hernia may fail in the case of another. Every hernia, in fact, requires a special adaptation of the pad as well as a carefully regulated spring. Every subject of a hernia, young or old, male or female, should wear When to be a truss, and, in a good proportion of cases, particularly of the young, a cure may take place; that is, the neck of the sac may close. But even after a cure, or apparent cure has taken place, it is w’ell, for the sake of safety, to wear the instrument; as cases are far from infrequent, when a supposed cure had taken place, and after the lapse of years, a sudden descent has occurred, jeopardising life. This is the more com- mon in the congenital form of hernia. The truss should be worn all day, from the act of rising out of bed to that of retiring, as its object is to prevent the descent of the hernia under any sudden act of exertion, and, with the truss off, it is impos- sible to guarantee that any such may not be made. Some patients have a habit of removing their trusses when they are sitting in their drawing-room, but this is to be condemned, since I have more than once been called upon to treat a strangulated hernia which came down under these circumstances, during some unguarded act; and it is in these unguarded moments that the truss is calculated to be of so much benefit. When the truss is first applied, it will doubtless cause inconvenience, which will soon pass away. The use of plenty of starch or violet powder, the bathing of the point of pressure with some spirit and water, and attention to keep it very dry, are excellent remedies for any little local source of discomfort. The pad.—This should be regulated according to the size of the On the pad of hernial aperture. A small opening requiring a small pad, and a large “ opening, a large one. The pad should always overlap for about half an inch all round the hernial aperture, and in large hernise, for more. It should be slightly convex when made of any yielding material; and VOL. I. 44