652 ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Influence of ailhesion of bowel to hernial sac. Over- distension of bowel paralysing its action. Slight traction of portion of bowel may cause obstruction. Mechanism of strangula. tion. On strangulated hernia. When occurring. ditions being such as we commonly meet with in cases of chronic intestinal obstruction. In this interesting case, death had doubtless been caused by peri- tonitis, although not from the strangulation of the umbilical hernia, but from a partially ruptured and over-distended caecum; a condition of bowel which had apparently been produced by the traction exerted upon the transverse colon, the result of the adhesion of its walls to the omental sac. As elucidating a secondary result of hernia, this case must be re- garded as most valuable; illustrating, as it does, a point not perhaps sufficiently recognised, namely, the inflnence of the adhe- sion of the bowel to a hernial sac, or the abdominal walls upon the fnnctions of the intestines; since doubtless such adhesions are sufficient to account for many of the griping and painful symptoms which exist in an old and irreducible hernia. The case referred to must also be regarded as a good illustration of the result of a long- continued interference with the bowel’s action; for the over-distension of the caecum, with its attendant consequences, was apparently due en- tirely to the interference with its functions, resulting from the union of the walls of the transverse colon with the omental sac. The calibre of the colon itself was not materially diminished, but its power of acting had become paralysed; the greater the distension of the intestine above, the greater must have been the traction caused by the adhesion, and as a seqnel, the greater was the effect of this interference. At last complete paralysis of the part had taken place, and complete obstruction, giving rise to all the symptoms and conditions which had terminated in death. These cases tend to prove that the smallest traction of a portion of the calibre of the intestine in a hernia, or otherwise, although accom- panied with an open passage of the bowel, is quite sufficient to interfere with the bowel’s action, and at last even to cause complete obstruction. In a former page I have pointed out how strangulation of the bowel within the abdomen may result from the formation of bands associated with an external hernia. Strangulated Hernia. Whenever a knuckle of intestine slips through an opening in the abdominal walls (external hernia) or is constricted within the abdominal cavity (internal hernia) it is liable to become strangulated, and this result takes place when air or motion enters the upper extremity of the knuckle and distends it so as to compress its lower end against the neck of the constricting orifice through which it may have passed. Under these circumstances, the greater the pressure from above, the more the lower end of the bowel will be compressed, the more complete will be the obstruction, and the sooner the compressed or strangulated bowel will lose its life. A rupture is said to be strangulated when its solid contents are so constricted as to be irreducible, and the vascular circulation of the parts is more or less completely arrested. This may happen in its first descent, “ recent hernia” but more com- monly it takes place after a hernia has existed for many years, old hernia. An analysis of cases that I made in 1856 (‘ Guy’s Reports ') indicated that the average duration of an inguinal hernia previous to its becoming strangulated was twenty, and of a femoral eleven