327 CHOROIDITIS. of fulness and tension of the eyes, accompanied by watering and intolerance of light, is complained of. On examination with the ophthalmoscope increased redness of the choroid (especially of that portion nearest the outer side of the optic disc) and some enlargement of the choroidal vessels can be made out; these changes will, however, very probably he overlooked by an inex- perienced observer. Teeatment.—Tlie eyes should be kept carefully at rest, protected Treatmeut. from light, cold douches employed, and all positions (as stooping or hanging the head) which cause congestion of the eyeballs carefully avoided; blood may be taken from the temples, and if glasses have been worn their use must be discontinued. Inflammation of the choroid, “ Choroiditis,” occurs under much the Choroiditis, same conditions as iritis; it also plays a prominent part in sym- pathetic ophthalmia, and is not unfrequently associated with inflam- mation of the iris—“choroido-iritis.” Two forms will be commonly met with—simple and syphilitic. Symptoms.—In all cases of choroiditis more or less loss of transpa- Choroido- rency will be found. Pain, intolerance of light, impairment of vision, iritis, fulness of the veins emerging from the sclerotic in the ciliary region, ciliary redness, dilatation and sluggishness of the pupil, and increased tension of the globe, are symptoms often met with in choroiditis, but are by no means characteristic of it. A diagnosis can only be made with certainty by examination with the ophthalmoscope. The changes seen in the choroid with the ophthalmoscope are, greyish or yellowish patches or spots of exudation surrounded by more or less redness (hyperffimia), and at a later period patches of atrophy. The exudation may occur in one or more largo patches, or be dis- tributed over the whole or greater part of the choroid in the form of spots, this hitter condition being known as “ choroiditis disseminata.” We know that the morbid changes noticed are in the choroid, from choroiditis their relation to the retinal vessels which pass in front of and are not disseminata, obscured by the opacity. Syphilitic choroiditis (in typical cases) is characterised by yel- Syphilitic lowish Ij’mph-nodules similar to those met with in syphilitic iritis choroiditis, in the choroid; but, as in the latter disease, typical cases are only occasionally met with, and we must be guided by the same rules in forming a diagnosis. Choroiditis disseminata is syphilitic; the atrophic changes left by it are seen in spots of white and dark dotted about the fundus; often combined with an irregular band of dirty white extend- ing round the optic disc. These changes are frequently seen in the subjects of congenital syphilis, the choroidal disease is in many in- stances associated with floating opacities in the vitreous, and may be looked upon as a certain indication of syphilis. Choroiditis is frequently associated with inflammation and opacity of the vitreous humour; the retina covering the aflected portion of choroid is usually involved in the inflammatory change, and the optic disc may be implicated if choroiditis exist in its vicinity. Atrophy of the choroid, as above stated, frequently follows inflam- Atrophy of mation. The ophthalmoscope shows white or dirty white patches, or choroid, spots corresponding to the areas previously occupied by inflammatory exudation, caused by destruction of the choroid, allowing the white sclerotic to show more or less plainly through it. The atrophic