294 EXAMINATION OP THE EYEBALL, ETC. Examination of erect image. Position of lamp. Use of con- cave lens. accessory portions consist of two object lenses of two and a half and three inches focal length respectively,^ and five ocular lenses two convex, of six and twelve inches positive foci three concave, of eight, twelve, and twenty-four inches negative fociall are made to fit into the above-mentioned clip. A very convenient case contains the whole. Method of using the ophthalmoscope.—There are two methods of using this instrument. The first, which requires much practice, is called the direct method of examination, or examination of the erect image, with the ophthalmoscope alone, without the aid of a biconvex object lens. The second, which is much the easier of the two, is called the indirect method, or exa- mination of the inverted image; in it both the ophthalmoscope and a biconvex lens are used. Direct ophthalmoscopic examination.—In this method a virtual erect image situated behind the eye is seen. The examination is conducted in the following manner: The patient being seated in a dark room, a gas or other lamp (gas being preferable) should be placed at the side corresponding to the examined eye, on a level with it, but so situated as to leave the cornea in shade; he should then be directed to look forwards and a little upwards, at some distant object, and to keep the eyes as steady as possible. Supposing the right eye to be examined, the lamp should be placed at the patient’s right side j the observer, standing in front at a dis- tance of eighteen inches or two feet, should take the ophthalmoscope in his right hand, look through the sight hole with the right eye, and reflect the light from the lamp through the pupil of the patient’s right eye. If the examination be conducted properly, the pupil will appear of a bright red colour. The observer should then look for the optic disc, which is situated rather to the inner side of the axis of the eye- ball ; he will know that the disc is in view from the alteration in colour of the pupil, which will turn from red to white, or pinkish white. Having obtained the peculiar reflection of the optic disc, the observer (taking care to relax his own accommodation) should approach the eye until an interval of only two inches separates his cornea from that of the examined eye. Some diflSculty will be experienced in keeping the eye illuminated, increasing as the distance between the observed and the observer becomes less; this, however, will be overcome by practice. When the observed eye has been approached to within a distance of two to three inches (supposing both the examining and examined eye to be emmetropic), a distinct erect and greatly magnified image of the parts occupying the fundus of the latter should be obtained; most observers will, however, find the image sharpened in outline and detail by using a weak concave lens behind the sight hole of the ophthalmo- scope. Should either the observer or patient be myopic, it will bo 1 Sixteen and thirteen dioptrics, metrical .system. 2 About seven and three dioptrics, convex. ® About five, three, and one decimal five, dioptrics concave. Fig. 89. Liebreich’s ophthalmoscope.