95 TUMO'DBS. important work was that of Alernethy, who at the beginning of this Aberaethy’s century published his ‘ Attempt to form a Classification of Tumours according to their Anatomical Structures.' In that able production he asserted “ that the structure of a tumour is sometimes like that of the part near which it grows; and sometimes unlike; that in many cases the nature of the tumour depends on its own action and organisation, and merely receives nourishment from the surrounding parts.” He thus gave expression to pathological truths of the greatest importance, and that still remain incontrovertible. The next real advance was due to Bichat, who recognised the essential difference Bichat’s between tumours and the parasitic nature of the cysticercus and echi- views, nococcus, although by his followers this parasitic notion was carried out far too fully, for they looked upon cancer as the product of a parasitic growth of entozoa. It was left, however, to Lohstein of Strasbourg, to embody Bichat’s idea, and to give it full expression, which he did by naming those tumours homaeoplastic which were similar in structure to the natural constituents of the body; and those heteroplastic which were composed of products which differ from the normal tissues. Since that time countless workers have been examining tumours and attempting to classify them—one of the most prominent being Lehert, and to him must fairly he attributed the credit of as- Lebert’s signing specific elements to specific tumours, each tumour having, in views, his opinion, a definite structure; cancer was to he know’n by the caudate fusiform cells that even now are looked upon by some as typical of the disease. This notion of specific elements was very feasible, for it simplified knowledge and induced men to think they had a ready means of deciding upon the nature of any new growth; and, had it not been for Virchow it is probable the theory would have long held its ground. In this learned pathologist, however, it found au opponent of consummate power, and as his reasons for disbelieving it are the ground- work of his great book on ‘ Cellular Pathology and Tumours,’ it is well to have them in his own words : “ In Germany the doctrine of specific elements has from the first Virchow’s made few proselytes, and now it is entirely abandoned. Prom the views, commencement of my career I have been compelled to combat this error, and I believe that at the present moment we are in a position to demonstrate in every direction, that there do not exist in tumours true specific elements which have no analogy with the normal tissues. It is enough for that to remember that the tumour, however parasitic it may appear to be, is always a part of the body from whch it springs, and that it is not developed in an isolated manner at the expense of some juice, at some one place in the body, by the inherent force of this productive juice. To admit such a mode of development, de novo, was possible at a time when it was also believed that entozoa were spon- taneously developed in the body at the expense of a liquid or an excretion, by equivocal generation, when no idea had been as yet formed ' as to how a cysticercus arrived in the abdomen, and there was able to . develop itself and grow. There was no other opinion which medical I men could then form save that entozoa sprung from animal sub- I stances, either from the tissues themselves or from the intestinal rnucus (saburra). In the present day, when it is known that entozoa always penetrates into the body from without, by a way, often it is , true, extraordinary, yet always natural, this analogy can no longer be