166 CHILBLAINS. On chilblains. Treatment of chilblains. On frostbite. Local effects. tection to the part. For this purpose there is nothing better than to^ bind on a piece of sheet lead over the cicatrix when the seat of mischief is on the leg, as by it equal pressure as well as protection is afforded. The new skin soon becomes as sensitive as the old; the sensibility of tjje cicatrix, under these circumstances, indeed, seems to be greater than when unaided cicatrisation is allowed to take place. Chilblains. Chilblains are local inflammations of tbe skin, and are to be met with in subjects of a feeble circulation. They are more common in the young, and in women than in men, and are generally seen on the toes, fingers, nose, or ears, and are caused by any sudden change of tem- perature or any sudden application of cold or warmth. They are simple congestions of the skin attended with tender- ness or itching; vesication of the skin, when the inflammation is more severe; or sloughing and ulceration of the skin, when a broken chilblain occurs. The disease may begin and stop at the first or con- gestive stage, or run through all the stages—the experience of each subject telling him or her what is to be expected. Towards evening the symptoms of irritation are always increased, and any external warmth, as of a fire or bed, any full diet or stimulat- ing drink aggravates it; in fact, anything that excites the circulation in the part, at any hour of the day or night, is apt to increase the symptoms. Teeatment.—The local treatment of chilblains is no less important than the general, and more successful; for whilst tonics, good diet, external warmth, and exercise are necessary to improve the general powers of the patient and the circulation, local stimulants are of great value. When the chilblain is not broken, the local application of the tincture of iodine, of a solution of sulphate of copper (three grains to the ounce), of camphor liniment, of soap liniment with opium, or one fourth part of tbe tincture of cantharides, of compound tincture of benzoin, or of simple spirit, not only gives comfort, but hastens the cure of the disease. The parts should also be covered with strapping spread on leather. When the parts are broken, water dressing with the use of thick lint and oil silk or elastic tissue, are the safest remedies, stimulating lotions being used later when the parts are indolent in healing. Olive oil §ij. Acid, Carbolic, gr. x, and Ext. Opii 5j, is a good formula. Warm socks and loose shoes or boots are always indicated, but any- thing like pressure is most detrimental. Exercise also should be taken when possible, and an equal temperature ought to be maintained. Frostbite. It has already been shown, that the sudden application of cold to any exposed part of the body of a feeble or depressed subject is liable to be followed by “chilhlain;” and, when concentrated cold is applied, under these circumstances, for a period sufficient to arrest the cir- culation in a part, a ^‘frostbite” is the result. Sudden and severe alternations of heat and cold under exposure, however, even in healthy subjects, may produce this result, and, in military life this fact is well known. The first effect of cold upon a part is, a sense of numbness and weight with a feeling of tingling. To the eye, the skin will probably