INTUSSUSCEPTION. 629 Bpeciilum should be brought to the aid of the fiuger in any case of doubt. Leichtensteiu says also that when the intussuscepted portion of bowel sloughs off it occurs between the eleventh or twenty-first day from the beginning of the disease, and that it is generally part of the ileum. This result, however, is vei’y rarely met with in infancy. In the treatment of intussusception, operative interference is not Treatment, to be undertaken in a hurry, as it is not to be questioned that cases of this affection constantly occur which right themselves either by or even without the aid of medical or surgical treatment, the bowel either freeing itself by an unexplained process, or, in some acute cases slough- ing away, and a so-called cure resulting. Fagge, however, well observes upon this point that “when this cure by expulsion occurs it frequently only postpones the fatal termination instead of entirely preventing it. The patient dies some months afterwards from contraction of the cicatrix which had formed at the seat of the disease, this fact affording a weighty additional argument in favour of an attempt to explore and pull out an ileo-C£Bcal intussusception when the case is correctly dia- gnosed at an early stage.” Mr. Morris says “ It would appear that when small intestine is intussuscepted into small intestine the invaginating portion, owing to its small relative size, is too much damaged by com- pression from within to allow of recovery by expulsion of the reflected and entering portions.” No operation should, however, be thought of in intussusception until well-considered minor measures have been employed and failed, care being taken that too much time is not expended in the attempt. In acute intussusception, however, where the bowel is clearly strangulated. Of acute, but a few hours should be given, because unless relief is speedily found, death ensues, and the younger the patient the more rapid the I’esult. In chronic intussusception where the bowel is probably only incar- of chronic, cerated, the surgeon should not withhold his hand for more than a w’eek ; because if relief is to be obtained by treatment, it should be obtained within the seven daj’s it is justifiable to expend in the attempt, and, if failure follows, the operation of laparotomy should be under- taken. In acute strangulation if I’elief is not speedily found, sloughing of the invaginated bowel may take place, and in the chronic, adhesion of the invaginated bowel; under either circumstance opei'ative inter- ference must fail. Operative interference in intussusception, however, has not hitherto Operntive been very successful, and its failure, I believe, is owing to its having interference, always been postponed to too late a period. Yet recent experience has been more encouraging, even under not very favorable circumstances, for Hutchinson has recorded a case (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. Ivii, 1874) in which he opened the abdomen of a child set. 2 on the thirtieth day of the symptoms, and drew out the invaginated bowel with a successful issue. Mr. Howard Marsh had a second case, in which a like good result was obtained in a male infant seven months old after symptoms of fourteen days’ duration ; while my colleague, Mr. Howse, had a third, in a woman set. 23, a patient of Dr. Fagge’s (ibid., vol. lix, 1876) in which recovei’y tuok place. I have likewise performed the same opera- tion in a dog, pulling out on the fifteenth day, with a good result, six feet of invaginated bowel. Dr. H. 11. Sandk, of New York, has also published another suc- cessful case in a child 6 months old (‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ June,