DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. and then reached the supposed cancer, which I isolated by needles S4..8 spindle-cell periosteal sarcoma. One of the largest fibro-cellular tumours of the bone on record occurred in Mr. Heath’s practice, and is illus- trated, with his permission, in Fig. 225. It was removed from a man ret. 32, and the disease was of eleven years’ grow'th. It weighed 4 lb. 6 oz.; the man died from exhaustion on the sixth day. libro-cyslic Fibro-cystic tumours of the lower jaw are very common, and have umours. same clinical history and aspect as the cystic tumours to which attention has been already directed. The most beautiful example on record is that which was removed by the late Dr. Hutton of the Rich- mond Hospital, Dublin, and is illustrated in Heath’s book; it was made up of cysts of nine years’ growth, and in a young woman only 20, A yet more remarkable case was operated upon by Mr. Key in 1841, in a boy mt. 13 (Figs. 226, 227). The tumour was of two years’ growth and painless. Mr. Key removed the whole by sawing through the lower jaw just below the angle on each side, and a good recovery ensued. Fig. 226. Fig. 227. Fibro-cvstic disease of lower jaw. Guy’s llosp. Mas., Drawing 4W. Key’s ease, Guy’s Hosp. Mus., 109P®<> Key’s case during life. Tumour after removal. I Cartilaginous growths. Osseous tumours. Cartilaginous growths are uncommon, and occur in early life, and as already stated are periosteal and endosteal. A fine example of the latter can he seen in ‘ Prep. 1091'® and '®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus„ which Mr. Key removed in 1846, from a woman aet. 29, in whom the disease had been coming on for nine years. In the preparation, the fibro- cartilaginous substance is seen to be placed between the plates of bone of the jaw, the teeth being in the middle of the new growth. The periosteal tumour grows to a large size. Osseous tumours are sometimes the result of ossified enchondroma. There is in St. Thomas’s Museum a specimen of this kind which was removed by Mr. Cline. Bone may, however, occur as an independent growth in the form of cancellated or ivory exostosis, which may some- times grow to a large size or cause other troubles; hence, in March, 1877, I had to remove a portion of the lower jaw from a lady, set. 50, who had had an exostosis growing for twenty years from its inner sur- face at a point corresponding to the right bicuspid and canine teeth. The growth had not given rise to any trouble till the soft parts covering its apex had begun to ulcerate, when, from its roughened surface, the bone so irritated the floor of the mouth as to set up ulceration which was thought to be cancerous. I removed the exostosis with the bone