604 RUPTURE OF VISCERA. Rest, Opium. Starvation. Ice. Nutrient eiiemata. Never administer purgatives. Cautious prognosis. Always examine the bladder. Ruptured kidney. Symptoms. Treatment. In every case absolute rest should he secured and maintained. If the injury be slight, convalescence will soon be established by such treat- ment ; if severe, secondary bad results may be prevented, and, at any rate, be relieved. No case of abdominal injury can be pronounced well within a fortnight. If local tenderness exists, fomentations or cataplasms should be used; and if it amounts to pain, leeches in large numbers (twenty or thirty) must be applied. In some cases, however, the application of ice gives more relief. Opium should always be given in small and repeated doses, as it allays pain, assists wonderfully in maintaining ; rest to the injured peritoneum and viscera, and tends materially to arrest inflammatory action. The patient should be kept free from all excitement, and as little i nourishment administered by the mouth as will suffice to sustain life ) if the intestines are believed to have been ruptured, starvation treat- ] ment must be carried out. Whatever is given should be liquid and cold. Milk and ice is the best and simplest combination, and upon this life can be sustained without difficulty. If great thirst exists, ice may be given j but this must be administered with caution, as the case already quoted well illustrates. When the intestine is believed to be injured, the allowance of fluid must be very scanty, the patient’s powers being kept alive by enemata of beef tea administered in small quantities, say three or four ounces repeated at short intervals. On no account ought a purgative to he administered. This rule is golden in these cases, and should never be deviated from; as by infringing it in a careless moment, the whole of nature’s processes in repairing the injury may be undone, and irreparable mischief follow. Constipation is the sign of a passive condition of bowel to the preser- vation of which all our treatment is directed, a purgative beiug merely an inntant, and in its effects absolutely destructive. In all cases the prognosis and treatment should be most guarded, cautious and expectant; and, in all, the state of the bladder should be well attended to, for retention of urine from disturbed nerve influence is a common accompaniment and must not to be overlooked. Rupture of the kidney is an accident from which recovery is more common than from any other viscus. Its position in the loins outside the peritoneal cavity, being doubtless a sufficient explanation of this fact; indeed, when not very severe and uncomplicated with other injuries, such cases usually do well. It is generally known by an attack of hsematuria and local pain following a blow on the lumbar region. The hsematuria may be but slight and passing, or not show itself till the second day. It may cease also after the lapse of two or three days, when it is probable that only a contusion of the kidney had taken place, for in more severe injuries the bleeding may last fifteen days or even more. At times clots will be passed, assuming the shape of the ureter, and I have before me the notes of some half dozen cases in which these symptoms were present, and from^which recovery took place. These clots, however, at times give rise to retention of urine by blocking up the urethra. Retraction of the testicle is au occasional symptom, and so is pain in the course of the ureter. The treatment to be pursued in these cases is, rest in bed and milk diet. In some cases where the bleeding is profuse, a grain of the acetate of lead may be given with half a grain of opium three times a day, or