704 ANAL ABSCESS AND FISTULA. I Causes. Not always tlependeut on ulceration. Fistula generally follows abscess. Mechanical irritation a cause. May occur at any period of life. Connection between phthisis and fistula. Varieties. Complete. BUnd external. Blind internal. Of the causes of this disease, little positive information can he given, because, as a rule, the abscess is obscure in its origin, slow in its progress and repair; some patients even professing to have been unconscious of its existence till it was about to burst. In other cases, however, they are very acute in their action, and very painful. That an anal abscess must always result from some ulceration of the bowel within the sphincter is an opinion which can scarcely he re- garded as true, there being no evidence to support such a view, and the fact that so many as forty-three out of 236 cases of anal abscess recovered without forming a fistula goes far to prove its error. It is not unfair, therefore, to infer that in many cases, it depends upon a different cause. In fistula in recto this argument must be equally strong, since it is generally believed that this affection is merely the sequel of the anal abscess; we must, consequently, look for some other and more general cause than that ordinarily received, namely, perforation of the bowel from ulceration. The mechanical irritation of a foreign body is doubtless an occa- sional cause, it being by no means uncommon for a surgeon to remove from the anus, when opening an abscess, a piece of fish-bone, bristle or other foreign body. Quite recently I removed a pin. These affections may occur at any period of life, though I have seen a fistula in a child six months old, and, in the majority of instances it is found in adults between twenty and forty yeai’s of age. Dr. Lipscomb, of St. Albans, related a case to me which took place in his practice that was congenital, the mother having conceived when worrying about her husband, who was suffering from fistula. It is very common to be informed that the fistula had existed for several years before surgical aid is sought. With respect to the connection between phthisis and fistula, it is diffi- cult to give any positive information. Durmg the eight years that I was registrar at Guy’s, I inquired carefully into this point in every case, hut had only 3 out of 193 in which either hsemoptysis or other symptom of marked phthisis were present. In the majority of cases, the patients presented no more severe cachectic symptoms than is usually met with in other hospital patients, and I confess to being somewhat doubtful as to the fact, that fistula in recto is a common con- sequence of phthisical disease. When, however, fistula and phthisis are associated, the former is usually of a bad form. When a fistula has two openings, one externally and the other into the bowel, it is called complete. When there is an external but no internal opening to be found, it is known as the blind external. When an internal but no external, blind internal. That as a rule an internal opening exists is now scarcely doubted, although at times there may be great difficulty in finding it. M. Ribes in 1819, examined the bodies of seventy-five people who died with fistula, and in all he found an internal opening; in nearly all, this was placed just within the sphincter, but in no instance was it higher than half an inch. Modern surgeons now accept these facts. The pus that forms in these parts is very offensive at times, as often from the absorption of fcetid gases through the mucous membrane as from the mixture of faeculent matter. In a large number of cases, the dis- charge has no feecal odour.