AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. 178 Cnuseb. Fungous granulations. Treatment. In slight cases. In severe eases. Removal of portion of nail. with on the outer side of the great toe-nail than on the inner, though it may occur in both places. It is usually caused by external pressure upon the soft parts, the movable soft parts being pressed upon the immovable nail. As often as not, it is due to the collection of cuticle beneath the edge of the nail, this cuticle acting as a foreign body and by its pressure causing ulceration. Ulceration having once been set up, the healing process is prevented by the presence of this cuticle, together with the pressure of the edge of the nail, and the soft parts covering it in Fungous granulations, as a consequence, frequently form, and copious discharge takes place, the affection being attended with severe pain. Treatment.—The disease being the result of pressure applied from without in the shape of tight boots, or from within in the form of indurated cuticle beneath the nail, the surgeon’s main object in the treatment is to take away the exciting cause; and, when the collection of cuticle exists, by the careful introduction of a probe beneath the nail, to procTU’e the evulsion of the foreign body. In early examples of the disease this treatment is often sufficient. When external pressure has beeu the cause, and ulceration exists, the soft parts may be carefully pressed away from the sharp edge of the nail by the careful introduction beneath the overhanging integument of a small roll of lint, which should be well pressed down to the bottom of the sore, and fixed in position by means of strapping, applied so as to draw the soft parts away from the nail. This treatment, by removing all pressure from the sore, as a rule, being successful. When the fungous granulations are excessive, and the discharge profuse, the free use of alum, oxide of zinc, lunar caustic, the solution of the perchloride of iron, or more particularly the powdered nitrate of lead before the application of the lint, is of great value. After one or two applications of the lint, in the manner previously described, the soft parts will have been so pressed to one side as to expose the edge of the nail with the surface of the sore; and, under these circumstances the lint, or a piece of thin sheet lead or tinfoil may be carefully introduced beneath the edge of the nail, and the dressings renewed. Under this treatment a rapid cure readily ensues, and if no external pressure be re-applied, and the nail is allowed to grow up in its normal square form, there will be no recurrence. In severe cases, where the soft parts so overhang the nail as to be unaffected by the means here sug- gested, or, in which the nail perforates the soft parts (Fig. 52), the best course is to excise the overhanging integument by means of a scalpel, for by this method the ulcer is exposed, and all external pressure at once removed, the sore, as it heals, having a tendency to contract, and thus considerably to diminish the chance of ■ a repetition of the affection. When the ulcer has spread far under the nail, it may be expedient to remove a portion of the latter to allow of cicatrisation; though, in a ge- neral way, to remove half the nail, to take away a V piece from its centre, to scrape or notch it, are only temporary remedies. They may succeed for a time, and allow the sore to heal, but it is certain to recur in all Fig. 53. hrotruding iiaO,