ON REPAIR AND INFLAMMATION. 12 d. Repair by scabbing. Canses of non-repair. colour, where it comes into contact with sound integument. This band is the new skin forming, and is caused by the gradual growth of the epidermis from the margin of the sound skin towards the centre of the sore. Such a process is called cicatrisation. The cicatrix is at first red, as in the linear cicatrix to which we have already alluded, but, as it then contracts, subsequently it becomes paler, more compact and ad- herent. The nature of the scar or cicatrix varies with the tissue in which it is formed, the new connecting medium or cicatrix under all circumstances having a powerful tendency to adapt itself to the pe- culiar character of the tissue in which it is placed. Thus, a cicatrix in skin in time closely resembles true skin, a cicatrix in hone true bone, and in a tendon it becomes tough and hard, like tendon; the consolidating reparative material in every instance partakes of the character of the parts which it connects. It is corpuscular in its origin, and clearly fibrinous in its nature; but whatever the origin may he (though there is considerable divergence of opinion about it), its existence is undoubted, and through it and by it all repair takes place. When wounds heal hy scabhing, granulations do not form. In this process the reparative material which is poured out undergoes at once similar changes to those already described as taking place in adhesive union, and the wound cicatrises rapidly beneath the scab ; for the serum of the blood when effused on the surface of a wound is of a highly plastic character, and rapidly coagulates to form a film of a protective nature, under which repair may rapidly proceed. Advantage is taken of this fact in the treatment of superficial wounds; the value of felt, cotton wool, or any similar material, when applied to an open wound, entirely depending upon this plastic property of blood. Repair by scabbing is doubtless the best form of healing, although it is, unfortu- nately, somewhat rarely obtained. The healing of suhavianeous wounds must be somewhat similar. Some details of this process will be given in the chapter on Tendons. I propose now to consider some of the causes that interfere with repair, amongst the most frequent of which I would place haemor- rhage. Blood, if effused to any extent between the edges of a wound, greatly interferes with the reparative process, and not only for- bids all healing by immediate union, but interferes with healing by primary adhesion. If effused in very small quantities between the divided surfaces, it may at times possibly change into cicatricial tissue, and form a bond of union between the divided parts, and in certain other instances it may organise, as on the brain; but if effused to any great extent it will, in all probability, eventually break up and act as a foreign body, causing irritation and inflammation. If foreign bodies exist between the edges of a wound, union cannot go on. If the wounded parts are much contused, union can only take place by granulation or secondary adhesion. If the edges of a wound are allowed to gape, or have too much ten- sion upon them, the same observations apply. If the injured parts are not kept quiet, repair cannot go on, as is well exemplified in fractures. If too little action is present from deficiency of power, as is seen in the very old and the very young, in plastic operations and the non-