657 PATHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF HERNIA. of its contents. In the early period of strangulation, when the contents of the hernia are merely arrested and the circulation impeded, simple serum will he found. T^en an extreme congestion exists, the serum will be more blood-stained. In even worse examples where blood has Fig. 274. Stricture of intestine after strangula- tion. Stricture of the small intestine after strangulated hernia. been extravasated into the tissues, the fluid will contain blood elements or blood itself. When the hernial contents are inflamed, flakes or flocculi of lymph will he found floating in the dark fluid. When the bowel is gangrenous, foetor will be observed. When perforation has taken place, faeces will he mixed with the fluid, and often gas. When the hernial tumour is red, infiltrated, and emphysematous, the surgeon may safely infer that sphacelus of the gut exists. Thus, the condition of the fluid and the external aspect of the sac : are valuable aids to diagnosis and prognosis in strangulated hernia. Treatment of Strangulated Hernia. ^ . . , , , . . Treatment ol I When a hernia is strangulated, nothing but its immediate reduction strangulated I should be entertained, as delay is highly dangerous. In the surgeon, kernin. i indeed, it is criminal, since every hour of strangulation adds to the i risk, which it is his duty to diminish. This can be done by manipula- ; tion, or by what is technically called “ the taxis,” and when this fails. Taxis. ; by “ the operation ” of herniotomy. To aid the surgeon in the adoption of these means, the use of Chloroform. I an anaisthetic camiot he too highly praised, as it contams within itself I all the advantages of every other form of treatment without a single i disadvantage. It renders the reduction of a hernia by the taxis a I gentle, and comparatively simple measure, and, certainly, a far more I successful one than of old. It facilitates also the operation of hernio- ' tomy on the failure of the taxis. Indeed, in strangulated hernia the I value of an anasthetic is so great that I would urge, where it can be : rendered available, that the taxis should never be employed without it, I and, that on the reduction of the hernia failing to be accomplished, ; “ the operation” ought to be performed. The warm bath, the adminis- tration of opium, the injection of tobacco, the local application of ice, for strangulated hernia being, in comparison, poor and unreliable re- ■ medies. In obstructed or inflamed hernia, however, they are still of ' use, but in strangulated intestinal hernia, recent or old, inguinal, VOL. I. 42