699 DISEASES OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. tion of the hand to guard the bowel and remove the^ foreign hody. Bottles, pots, cups, corks, rings, pencil cases, bougies, sticks, &c., have been impacted in these regions, and considerable care is needed in their removal to prevent injury. The injection of plenty of warm Treatment, oil before the attempt greatly facilitates the operation. Lithotomy scoops or forceps are likewise valuable, but the ingenuity of the sur- geon is necessary in every case to apply the best means to carry out the end in view. A large collection of such cases with their treatment is given by M. Morand in ‘ Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery,’ vol. iii, and by Ashton in his work ‘ On the Rectum.’ Diseases of the Anns and Rectum. These have only recently received sufficient attention from the great On diseases hody of surgeons, and, as a consequence, have been too often allowed the anus to fall into the hands of “ quacks;” and, although able and respectable specialists have since rescued this important class of cases from their Their study hands, much remains to be done by the profession as a whole, to bring neglected, the diseases of these parts into their right position, that is, into the hands of the general practising body of the profession. Ag.ain, in no class of cases are so many mistakes met with, and these almost always arise from a want of proper local examination of the parts. The anus or rectum is either unlooked at or unexamined from some mistaken notions of delicacy, or badly examined from want of knowledge or want of inclination. But such should not be, and every patient who complains of anything like persistent symptoms in those regions should be as carefully examined as he or she would be were any other locality equally affected. To do this, some nicety is required, and, to help the student the following hints may be acceptable. Examination of a patient. The best position is on the side with the legs well drawn up and Mode of thighs flexed upon the abdomen, the hips being brought to the edge examining of the bed or couch in a good light; the surgeon, with one hand having uncovered the parts sufficiently to expose them, may then raise the upper buttock, and in doing this, the anus comes well into view; in operations, this may be done by an assistant. ^Vhen an abscess exists, it will then be seen; if a fistula be present, its external orifice will be apparent. Fissures, warts, condylomata, or fleshy, flattened, cutaneous vegetations, or cancerous tubercles, will also be at once recognised. Pendulous loose folds of skin about the anus will suggest the Loose folds former existence of external haemorrhoids; blue, turgid, venous pro- of skin, jections their present existence. A tightly contracted and rigidly drawn up anus, as a rule, means some painful ulcer of the part, and a patulous anus through which flatus or discharge passes without the patient’s wish, too often indicates extensive rectal ulceration or stricture. Internal piles when prolapsed will appear as turgid, vascular, intema mucous projections, covered with mucus or blood, surrounded by piles, everted integument more or less cedematous; prolapsus recti, as a greater or less annular projection of smooth or rugous mucous mem- brane, with a central intestinal orifice. A polypus projecting will appear as a cherry, surrounded by healthy structures. All these points