UMBILICAL HERNIA. 685 Death, in this case, was clearly due to chronic intestinal obstruction, caused by the adhesions of the bowel to the hernial sac. The only Fig. 283. I'm. 284. Hernia, with, sac. E.xternal view. Internal view. Obturator hernia. special symptom worthy of notice xvas, the fixed pain in the left side of the abdomen above Poupart’s ligament. Treatment.—The taxis can hardly be expected to be a successful Treatment of proceeding in obturator hernia, the sac being so low down in the thigh and so little under control. Nevertheless, it should be tried, with the adductors relaxed, by means of steady pressure applied downwards in the hollow of the thigh, and inwards between the adductors. To explore the parts, an incision should be made below Poupart’s Operation for ligament, and to the inner side of the femoral vein, down to the pectineus muscle, which may then be divided. If no sac appear, and the obturator foramen covered by its muscle be reached, the fibres of this muscle must then be separated and the obturator canal found; for a small hernia, as proved by the case I have recorded, may be well hidden by the muscle. When a sac is felt, the parts con- stricting it must be divided by a knife and its contents reduced. The obturator nerve, if possible, should bo avoided. This may be a congenital or acquired affection, and is common in children from want of closure of the umbilicus. It is far from rare in fat women, and others who have had many children. It is also met with in men, forming 5 per cent, of all cases of hernia, and 6 i>er cent, of cases of strangulated hernia. The congenital form.—Children are occasionally born with a hernial Congenital protrusion of some of the abdominal viscera into the umbilical cord, ^ernia*^”^ the covering of the viscera consisting of the thin translucent sheath of the cord; this deformity is probably due to an arrest of develop- ment. Among the few examples of this affection that I have seen was one in which the liver projected, and in it the serous covering sub- UmbUical Hernia. On umbilical hernia.