VENESECTION. 505 Mr. Gay called attention (Lond. Med. Soc., Oct., 1871) to a class Gay on of cases in which the superficial or complementary veins, as he calls them, are obliterated; and, as a result, the return of the venous seated veins, blood is carried on entirely by the deep veins. These consequently become diseased, the circulation through them grows feeble, and degeneration of the tissues ensues, associated with deep-seated solid oedema of the limb, not subcutaneous oedema, which belongs to ob- struction only in the subcutaneous veins. For this disorder exercise, warm applications, tonics, &c., are required ; but bandages and rest do harm. Venesection. At the present time this operation is very rare indeed, and On yene- at Guy’s Hospital it is as rare as, if not more so than, amputation, section. Forty years ago it was one of the most common, and there seems some reason to believe that it will soon be practised again with greater frequency, especially when we find Sir James Paget asserting “that we undoubtedly over-value i ’’“blood, and estimate too cautiously the loss of itthat “ the loss of blood up to fainting and in some cases I remember, with those epileptiform convulsions that come with the loss of blood, is absolutely harmless,” that is, when performed upon a large series of healthy persons, as was the custom in his student’s days. (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 15th, 1874.) Fiq. 163. It is not a difficult operation, but requires nicety and care. It Mode of is usually performed at the bend of the elbow. The first thing the operating, surgeon^ has to do is, to render the veins prominent by arresting the circulation thi’ough them by means of a piece of broad tape or narrow bandage carried twice round the arm a few inches above the elbow, and tied in a bow, but not tight enough to stop pulsation in the arteries (Fig. 163). He then selects the vein, the largest being the best. Where the outer vein or median cephalic is of good size, it should be chosen, as the inner or median basilic lies immediately over the brachial artery ; either, however, may be selected, care being observed not to go through the vein. He should also assure him-