DENTAL SURGERY. 582 Hypertrophy of. Necrosis of pulp from blow, &c. Periodontitis. Constitu- tional forms of. Treatment. should be taken to prevent the products of decomposition which result from the sphacelus of the pulp from passing beyond the interior of the tooth and so causing the inflammatory involvement of the perios- teum _ and the formation of alveolar abscess. The pulp occasionally loses its vitality without producing noticeable pain. Tardy destruction of the pulp.—Instead of losing its vitality at once the pulp may die piecemeal, the chronic irritation that attends this process being often productive of morbid changes on the exterior of the root. A pulp chamber that contains the remains of a decomposed pulp emits a strong and peculiar phosphatic smell. Calcification of pulp has been described already under the head of Secondary dentine. An insensitive polypoid growth of the pulp, consisting of granula- tions which throw off a secretion and readily bleed, sometimes projects from the pulp chamber into a cavity in the crown of a tooth •, it usually necessitates the extraction of the tooth on account of the successful resistance it oflTers to extirpation. A sensitive sprouting of the pulp may follow fracture of a tooth. Extraction would be the treatment for this condition, which, by extir- pation of the pulp, should be prevented from developing, if the retention of the root is desirable. Necrosis of the pulp may occur within the unopened pulp chamber of a sound tooth. It is most often consequent on a blow (sometimes a very slight one) rupturing its vessels as they enter the apex of the root. It may supervene on fever. A darkening of the whole tooth results, and is due to the permeation of the dentine by the decomposed colour- ing matter of the blood. Salter has pointed out that the pulp thus devitalised may be disposed of by fatty degeneration. In the absence of treatment {i.e. extirpation of the pulp, &c.) it often leads to alveolar abscess. A tooth knocked out and immediately replaced may become quite firm and obtain vital connection with the alveolo-dental membrane, and will then be in the same condition as the above. Death of the pulp will be evidenced by the absence of sensation in a tooth when touched with an instrument hot enough to evoke sensation in its neighbours. Affections of the Alveolo-dental Membrane. Dental periostitis may be local or general, chronic or acute. General inflammation of the periosteal investment of the teeth and their sockets results from rheumatism or attends on a debilitated or unhealthy condition of the system, and demands constitutional treat- ment. When slight in amount and causing only a loosening of and sense of fulness and uneasiness about the teeth, no local treatment may be required beyond the use of a slightly astringent mouth w'ash. When the gums are also congested they should be scarified and a stronger astringent (tannin dissolved in spirits of wine is efficient) applied to them. Tincture of iodine is a favorite application with some. Any root or tooth that may be an excitant of inflammation is best removed, and tartar should be thoroughly got rid of from beneath the free edges of the gum. The continuance or oft-repeated recurrence of a congested condition of gum and periodontura leads to the absorption of the alveolar edge and consequent loss of implantation for the teeth; the gradual deposi-