FEMORAL HERNIA. 680 When the operation is uncalled for. When the . operation may be jj justifiable. On femoral , hernia. . More liable straiigula- i| tion. 1 il Anatomy of the liernia. Position of hernia. Situation of vessels. radical cure had, in consequence of its failure, applied for trusses; and this number is large, considering the surgeons who perform this operation are not numerous, nor the cases abundant. For my own part, I believe, that where a hernia can be kept up by a truss, and the patient is likely to remain in a civilised country where trusses can be obtained, any operation for the radical cure is un- justifiable. To risk the life of a patient on the theory of a cure, v/hen a truss, as a matter of safety, has to be worn subsequent to the opera- tion, is both unfair and unsatisfactory. When a hernia is reducible and cannot be kept in place by a truss; when a patient is going abroad where trusses are not to be obtained, or only obtained at too great a cost, the operation for the radical cure may be undertaken. Indeed, under these circumstances I have performed Wood’s as well as WntzeFs operation with good success; that is, the patients who previously could not keep up their hernia on account of the great size of the inguirial ring were enabled to do so. Under all other circumstances, 1 have refused to undertake it. In the “ congenital form ” of inguinal hernia, there seems a better prospect of success following the operation than in any othe.',and a better basis for the practice; for “ thus allowing natime to glide our pro- cedure, we must make it a rule to select those cases in which her efforts have failed ; and by acting as her handmaid, we may reisonably hope to arrive at a successful result.” (Birkett.) Femoral Hernia. This forms about one tenth of the whole number of caies of hernia, and about forty per cent, of all cases of strangulated hirnia; and is 5 also far more liable to become strangulated than inguina, though less likely to be reduced by the taxis. The taxis, moreover, s more prone to produce injury. One out of three cases of strangdated femoral hernia is reducible by the taxis, two being operated upon and of these 40 out of every 100 die, the operation after “ recent ternia ” being twice as fatal as it is after the “ old ”—a strangulated fi moral hernia going on more rapidly to destruction than any other, and s strangulated “ recent” than an “ old” hernia. Femoral hernia descends from the abdominal cavity through the crural ring inside the femoral vessels. The free magin of Gim- bernat’s ligament bounds its inner side, and the sac whch is always acquired, pouches downwards beneath Poupart’s ligamen and emerges through the saphenous opening to the inner side of ;he falciform process of the fascia lata. The hernia expands laterallya-esting upon this fascia, and, as it enlarges, turns upwards over Poupa-t’s ligament, then in the direction of the crest of the ilium, very rasly spreading downwards. Its long diameter will be transverse and not tertical. The neck of the hernia will always lie outside the spine of th<pubes or the tendon of the long adductor, while an inguino-scrotal oilabial hernia will always be found inside these points. The dep epigastric artery and vein usually lie outside the neck of the sac, anchre free from harm in the operation ; though when the obturator come off from the epigastric, and arches over the neck of the hernia to di down on its inner side towards the obturator foramen, it may be diided when a free incision is made.