595 FOREIGN BODIES IN (ESOPHAGUS. produced by the end of a parasol, in which an excellent recovery ensued. Foreign bodies in the oesophagus are mostly arrested at the two nar- Foreign rowest portions of the tube—its origin behind the cricoid cartilage, or at todies in its lower end just above the diaphragm—and anything that can be swallowed may be so impacted. The symptoms to which this accident Symptoms, gives rise are extremely uncertain. When the upper part of the tube is obstructed the laryngeal symptoms are generally alarming (Fig. 250), and when the obstruction is not complete, they may he very slight. Vomiting, however, under both circumstances, will probably take place to expel the obstructing body, and when this is severe, rupture of the Rupture of oesophagus may ensue. This accident is to he suspected, when, after oesophagus, severe and repeated straining the foreign body is ejected with violence, its ejection being attended with ha3morrhage and followed by emphy- sema of the neck. An interesting paper on this subject may be referred to, by Dr. Fitz (‘American Journal of Med. Science,’January, 1877). As a rule, however, besides the mechanical symptoms, the mere presence of a foreign body in the tube produces, secondary inflammatory symptoms may be set up, which may give rise to a fatal result. Thus, a case is on May record, in which a fish hone perforated the heart and caused a fatal perforate hmmorrhage (Andrews, ‘ Lancet,’ 1860); in another, where a sharp spi- *’ culum of bone caused ulceration on the third day into the aorta (Spry, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. iv, 1853); and in a third, where disease of the spinal cord ensued as a consequence of ulcer- ation of the intervertebral substance, following the arrest of a piece of hone in the oesophagus (Ogle, J. W., ‘Path. Trans.,’ vol. iv, 1853). Erichsen also records a case in which a piece of gutta percha fonned for itself a bed in the wall of the oesophagus for upwards of six months, and destroyed life by causing ulceration into a vessel and hsemorrhagc, and a second, in which a man died suddenly from hajinatemesis, the cause being discovered after death to be a half-crown impacted in the oesophagus, ulcer- ating into the aorta. Gairdner likewise gives a case where a fish bone passed through the posterior wall of the oesophagus and was found embedded in pus in front of the vertebral column (‘Med.-Chir. Soc.,’ Edinburgh, 1859), and my friend Dr. Sutton also has told me of an instance where a lunatic so plugged his pharynx with tow as to cause death by suf- focation. _ • Diagnosis.—It is impossible for a surgeon "J^idding under all circumstances to say with cer- cesophagus of a child, tainty as to the presence or absence of any 2 ypars, which foreign body in the oesophagus. When it 5aam“%ny^s Ho^‘ can be felt by the finger or bougie, no doubt Mus., 1793«. can be entertained; yet, on the other hand, when no such evidence is obtainable it may often be present, for a foreign body of small size may become so fixed in one side of the tube as