316 COEKEITIS. Symptoms. Recovery. Pustular corneitis. Symptoms. Strumous oplitlialmia. I'asicular keratitis. either simultaneously or at short intervals j it runs a very chronic course and is most intractable, a severe attack often lasting from twelve to eighteen months. Symptoms.—Interstitial keratitis presents all the symptoms of in- fliimmation of the cornea in a marked degree. The opacity is peculiar, and is caused by infiltration of the substance of the cornea with opaque material. At first the cornea becomes spotted in its centre, but the spots soon run together, forming a greyish haze; opacity then commences at the upper and lower corneal margins, and gradually spreads, until the whole structure resembles somewhat a piece of ground glass, apparently blood-stained in parts, from the development of innumerable minute blood-vessels. There is always a well-marked band of ciliary injection. Interstitial keratitis is not unfrequently complicated by iritis, hence the name “ corneo-iritis.” The opacity having reached a certain point, may remain stationary for months, but at length clearing commences, and the cornea regains more or less of its normal transparency; recovery always taking place to a much greater extent than would be at first e.xpected. In some few cases a choroido-iritis is set up, and the eye eventnally shrinks. Pustular corneitis (phlyctenular, strumous, vascular, corneitis; strumous ophthalmia, fascicular keratitis). Pustular corneitis is met with in children and young adults; it often follows measles, scarlatina, or other acute diseases; it is fre- quently accompanied by eczematous eruptions on the eyelids, about the nostrils and angles of the mouth, and on the head ; the patients often present well-marked strumous diatheses, and are generally said to be delicate. Symptoms.—In most cases there is profuse lachrymation, accompanied by great intolerance of light; the lids may be swollen, covered with eczematous eruption, and tightly screwed up, so as to cause the greatest difficulty in examination. There is more or less injection of the ciliary region (ciliary redness). Upon the surface of the cornea may be found (1) small greyish elevations (phlyctenulaj); (2) phlyctenulae in a state of suppura- tion (pustules); (3) small ulcers left on discharge of the contents of the latter. Any of these are usually found in greatest quantity round the margin of the cornea, but its whole surface may be found dotted over with phlyctenulae, pustules, or ulcers, or examples of all three may be met with in the same eye. There is more or less haziness and vascularity surrounding the affected portions of cornea. In some cases there is thick mucous or muco-purulent discharge in addition to the lachrymation. Cases of pustular corneitis, accompanied by great intolerance of light, much swelling of the eylids, profuse lachrymation, and thick muco-purulent discharge, occurring in strumous children, are some- times described as a separate disease under the name of “ strumous ophthalmia.” Fascicular keratitis is a somewhat rare form of the disease charac- terised by the existence of a fasciculus of vessels running on to the cornea from its margin, the fasciculus terminating in a small ulcer, phlyctenula, pustule, or small inflamed patch of cornea. Pustular corneitis is very likely to recur,