DISEASES OF NAILS. 180 water) or, the red oxide of mercury oiutment. In the case to which I have already alluded all this treatment failed, even after the evulsion of the nails—a plan of treatment that should always be adopted in obstinate cases. The cure was at last effected by making a clean shave of the dorsal aspect of the extreme phalanx, taking away nail and soft parts. This course was resorted to only after the disease had existed for five or six years, and had resisted every form of treatment, even to the repeated evulsion of the nails; the pain being agonising and demand- ing surgical interference. Fig. 54 was taken from one of the fingers of this patient. Professor Vanzetti, of Padua, strongly advocates the application of the powdered nitrate of lead to the ulcer, and my own experience of its value justifies me in strongly recommending it. Constitutional treatment with tonic regimen is always necessary. The disease may at times have a syphilitic origin, when it will be wise to adopt specific treatment. Other diseases of the Nails. Arrest of growth of nails. Ridged nails. Psoriasis of nails. Clubbed nails. Under the influence of some acute diseases, the nails cease to grow, and the arrest becomes manifest, as convalescence advances, by a trans- verse groove in the nail, while the width of the groove denotes the dura- tion of the arrested growth. As a result of hereditary syphilis Mr. Hutchinson has shown, that the nails may become completely ridged, while even in acquired syphilis, Hutchinson, Wilks, and Fagge have fairly proved that the nails may become narrow, thick, iU-formed bodies, or concave, rough, and black. Psoriasis affects the nails somewhat in the same way, the nail thick- ening and splitting vertically, and infavus, Fagge has shown that the part may become thickened and of a yellow colour from the interstitial deposit of the parasitic disease. Wilks, in the ‘ Lancet ’ for 1868 and Fagge, in ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,' 1869-70, have written fully on these points. At times the nails become soft, and, in feeble subjects, very convex. This condition is said to be common in phthisical subjects. Fig. 55. Fig. 66. Horny growth from beneath Ungual exostosis. ° nail. but in surgical disease I have often observed the same condition appear during illness, and disappear as strength returned. I regard it only as an evidence of feeble power.