31 SLOUGHING SORES. Authors describe a varicose ulcer, but it is questionable whether Varicose such exists. Many indolent sores are doubtless associated with varicose veins, and are probably indolent on account of this asso- Ulcer elation; but how far they are really caused by them is a different associated matter, for varicose veins and ulcers of all kinds are constantly met veins.'^^^'^°^* with together. Of all ulcers entitled to the term varicose, the eczematous has probably the most claim, for certainly eczema of the leg is a common consequence of varicose veins, and an ulcer the result of the eczema. Practically, however, it is well to remember, that when varicose Must treat veins exist zoith an ulcer, repair cannot go on favorably unless the venous circulation of the limb be assisted by position or pressure; and t),g sg,„g that where these varicose veins are present, all ulcers or sores ai’e dis- time, posed to become indolent if neglected. When an ulcer takes its origin from an inflamed vein the term is applicable, in a measure, but this ulcer has no special characteristics. Sores that are prevented from healing by varicose veins must be treated by the elevated position of the limb, by bandaging or strapping, and, in bad cases, by the obliteration of the veins. Without this obli- teration the treatment will, of necessity, fail; whereas with it the sore may be expected to heal with the use of such general and local means as its nature may require. How far it is right to heal an old chronic sore has not yet been Question of quite decided. Older surgeons declared it to be inexpedient, as cases were met with in which apoplexy or some other alarming condition ulcers, supervened. Modern surgeons, however, are disposed to question the explanation of these facts, and to look upon that practice as beneficial which removes any abnormal condition, local or general. Still, it is wise, when a patient has been in the habit of losing by discharge from the surface of a sore, a certain amount of material which would otherwise have been used to maintain the general powers, to cut oft’ the supplies iu another way, to order more abstemious living, and to regulate the bowels by some saline water, natm'al or artificial, as may suit the stomach. Sloughing and phagedsenic sores are rarely seen, except in connection Sloughing with syphilis or hospital gangrene. In syphilis, sloughing is found in ulcers, the intemperate and ill-fed, and mostly in gin-drinking prostitutes. It attacks any surface that has been made sore, either from venereal con- tact or other causes; and it is marked by the rapid way in which the process destroys tissues, by the foetid character of the discharge, the great depression of power as an invariable accompaniment, and the constitutional disturbance. Opium in full doses is required for their treatment, with tonics Treatment of and good nutritious food. When this does not control the ulceration, sloughing the application of strong nitric acid with a piece of wood to the sur- face of the sore is often useful; sometimes, too, the local application of iodine or bromine in solution is of great benefit. Fresh air is always indicated, and abundance of disinfectants, such as Condy’s fluid, or carbolic acid in some of its forms. These sores are mostly due to some feeble constitutional condition, and not to a local cause, although at times the local action seems to continue by itself, re- quiring some powerful escharotic, such as nitric acid, to check its course.