146 SUTURES. Uninter- rupted suture. Twisted suture. too should be brought to one side of the wound (Pig. 34); and in fasten- ing the suture it is only necessary to draw the knot tight enough to keep the edges of the wound in apposition, and not to strangle them, as illustrated in Fig. 34. In a large wound, sutures and strapping may alternate ; in others the sutures may be inserted about half or three quarters of an inch apart. The uninterrupted, continuous, or Glover's suture is usually employed where a very close and accurate adaptation of the margins of the wound is wanted, as in wounds of the intestine, the eyelid, the face, and the penis after circum- cision in the adult; also after the removal of the breast or other tumour. For this pur- pose the needle should be small and the ligature fine; and the stitch is that of the sempstress. Fig. 35 illus- trates the suture as applied to the intestine. In both these forms of suture the stitches should be removed on the third or fourth day; they may often be taken out from the face on the second. If left in long they set up irritation and ulceration. Iron, or silver wire sutures are preferred by some, as they are thought to be less irritating than silk. I have tested them together in the same wound on many occasions, and have failed to confirm this assertion. They are not, however, more irritating, and may be used; nor need they be tied, a double twist being sufficient to secure their ends. Wire sutures at times, however, set up very little irritation. Gut and horsehair seem to be the least irritating materials we possess for sutures, and should be used in plastic operations. The twisted suture is that which formerly was always employed for bringing together the parts after the operation for harelip. It is stiil often so used, as well as in cheilo- plastic operations and others on the face and abdominal walls. To apply it, some fine pins with fiat heads, silk, and cutting pliers are wanted. The pins are employed to bring the surfaces of the wound in contact. In lip cases, the point should be introduced half an inch or more from the margin of the wound, and passed obliquely through its thickness down to. but not through, the lining mu- cous membrane (Fig. 36.), then it should be introduced into the opposite side and brought out through the skin at a correspond- ing point. With a piece of silk the wound may then be drawn together Eig. 36. The twisted suture. Fig. 35. The continued suture as applied to the intestine.