TUMOUKS. 101 but it can never be infiltrated with the elements of the tumour. This fact is well exemplified by a close-examination of the margin of ! a cutaneous opening, the result of over-distension; for it will appear as if cleanly cut, or rather punched at its edges, and never thickened or diseased. An intra-cystic growth may project from it as a fungus, and put on many of the appearances of a cancerous tumour, yet the margin of the opening will be free, and not infiltrated. In the cystic tumours of the breast this clinical fact is easily perceivable. (Fig. 406.) Simple tumours, by expanding parts, cause the cellular tissue Encapsuled around to become condensed, and to form a capsule; consequently, tumours most of the innocent tumours are encapsuled more or less completely. With the majority of cancerous tumours, however, a very different' condition has to be described, for a cancer has the peculiar property of freely infiltrating all the tissues upon which it presses, at its base, round its borders, and upon its cutaneous aspect. As the tumour approaches the surface, the integument first appears to be drawm down to it, and afterwards seems as though glued to its surface (Figs. 399, 400). At a later stage, the skin becomes infiltrated with cancerous elements, cancer feeling to the finger firm, fibrous, or tuberculated; and when ulcera- infiltrates tion has commenced, the edges of the skin are palpably indurated, thickened, and infiltrated with cancerous products (Fig. 405). The contrast between these difl’erent conditions of integument in the two classes of tumours is most marked and very important, forming a very valuable means of diagnosis in the extreme stage of simple or malignant tumours. Simple or innocent tumours affect the patient solely through their Diagnosis of local influence. They grow by their own inherent properties, irre- ““4 spective of the growth of the parts in tnhich they are placed; have little disposition to soften dotcn or ulcerate, and no tendency to multiplication in other tissues, or to involve the absorbents with which they are connected. Cancerous tumours not only affect the patient through their local influence, but have a marvellous tendency to multi- plication in any part of the body. Through the lymphatic system they involve the glands of the part with which they are connected, while through the vascular system they spread to other parts. They are prone, also, to degenerate and ulcerate. When simple tumours are multiple, they invariably are found in the 'Wlien simple same tissue. When cancerous tumours are multiple, they are mostly tuniours are found in different tissues. Thus, amongst the innocent growths, ’“'dtiple. multiple fatty tumours of the skin are not uncommon ; multiple fibro- mata of the uterus are often seen; multiple glandular tumours of the breast are met with involving one or both organs; and there are records ■| of multiple fibroplastic or myxomatous tumours. It is not seldom I that multiple euchondromatous tumours and exostoses are seen; but j in all these instances the tumours occupy one tissue. J In the cancerous multiple tumours no such description can be given. When 4 for they spread in ever widening circles from the parent tumour, the cancerous cancerous elements spreading locally in connective tissue as freely as ■ the floating blood-cells move through the walls of the blood passages, I as a colloid is penetrated by a crystalloid, wandering about in what - are called solid tissues. They follow the course of the lymphatics and ■ affect the glands, and at times seem to follow^ the course of the venous circulation. They recur by continuity of tissue as from constitutional