41 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. a large artery, early amputation is sometimes called for, it being at times wise to remove the limb above the line of ligature (after ligature of artery) rather than to wait for nature to indicate the point, parti- cularly when the limh is oedematous from blood stasis and infiltrated with inflammatory products; this practice under these circumstances saving much constitutional disturbance and economising power. In cases, however,"in which the gangrene assumes the ansemic form and spreads slowly, a line of demarcation may be waited for, more particu- larly when the constitutional condition of the patient is good. In the treatment of the third group of cases, those of “ static gan- Treatment grene,” caused hy the mechanical obstruction to the return of blood of static from a part, the first thing to be done is to remove the cause. In gtogtene. hernia this is accomplished by dividing the stricture, in paraphymosis by freeing the prepuce, and when it is the result of the application of a tourniquet or splints, by their removal, and so on. By this course, if the parts involved are not irreparably lost, a recovery may take place by natural processes, their venous circulation being aided by position and other means. When gangrene, however, has taken place in a limb from this cause, its early amputation is necessary, it being wiser to remove the dead part at once before the setting in of secondary inflammation which may spread and cause more loss of tissue; the seat of the me- chanical force fairly indicating the extent of mischief. In gangrene of a limb from a ruptured artery or aneurism, the same practice should be resorted to for similar reasons; delay, under all these circumstances, being unnecessary as well as injurious. HOSPITAL GANGRENE, or sloughing phagedmna, is an affection that attacks wmunded or Causes, injured parts, and chiefly in over-crowded, badly ventilated, or ill- drained hospitals. At times it preselits itself as if generated in a ward too closely filled with patients who have suppurating wounds; at others, as if conveyed into a ward by the introduction of a sloughing or foetid sore. Want of cleanliness in the treatment of suppurating wounds and want of attention to sanitary laws have undoubtedly much to do with its propagation, for the disease seems to be contagious as well as infectious, through its discharges. Its contagious character is admitted by all, though some dispute its infectiousness. Guthrie, however, in his ‘ Commentaries,’ relates the following striking fact bearing upon the point:—“ Burgmans says, that hospital gangrene prevailed in one of the low wards at Leyden, in 1798, whilst the ward above it was free. The surgeon made an opening in the ceiling between the two, in order to ventilate the lower or affected ward, and, in thirty hours, three patients, who lay next the opening, were attacked by the disease, which soon spread through the whole ward.” Two forms of the disease exist. In one the ulcerative action is the Two forms: more violent, wounds attacked with it rapidly spreading; skin, suh-ulceration, cutaneous and connective tissues all disappear under its action, small sloughs taking place at the same time. Blackadder relates how a vesicle forms and ulcerates, the ulceration rapidly spreading, leaving a sharp well-defined edge to the ulcer. This form of the affection Delpech designated " ulcerous,” and Boggie “ phagedsena gangrenosa.” In the second form the tissues die in masses, forming pale, ash- 4.Sloughing.