421 TORSION. the passage of a needle through the skin, and a figure-of-8 ligature over, being of great service. An ingenious modification of this process has been devised and Oix’s method, successfully used by Mr. Dix, of Hull. A wire passed through the flaps by means of two needles and twisted over a cork outside, com- presses the bleeding vessel in the same way as the needles. It is called by its author “the wire compress,” and is fully described in the ‘Edinburgh Medical Journal,’ Sept., 1864. It seems, however, to be more adapted for securing an artery in its continuity as in the treatment of aneurism, under which head (see page 449) it will be described in detail. In a physiological point of view there is no method more perfect at command for the control of haemorrhage than that of torsion; because, unlike acupressure, which uses one only of Nature’s haemostatic processes, or the ligature, which is a foreign body in a wound, and becomes a source of danger by undoing at a later what has been done at an earlier period of the case, it utilises to the utmost all the physiological processes employed by Nature to prevent and arrest bleeding, and places the vessel in the most favorable position for them to take effect. What these changes are was discussed in a former page of this chapter. For the application of torsion a good pair of forceps is required Mode of {vide Fig. 120), that will hold the end of the artery firmly, that has performing no lateral motion, and with serra- torsion, tions blunt enough to obviate any Fio. 123. laceration or cutting of the parts seized by the blades. The vessel j may be twisted off or not, as Effects of torsion on femorsl artery. ■ may be preferred. In Fig. 122, the appearance of a femoral artery sufiiciently twisted is well shown. When the vessels are atheromatous or diseased fewer rotations of the The diseased forceps are required, the inner tunics of the vessels being so brittle as vessels, to ^ break up at once and incurve. If the surgeon, therefore, twist more, he will break away the external or cellular coat which is not only of essential importance in maintaining the lacerated inner coats in position, but in allowing blood to coagulate, and lymph to organize between them. With this caution diseased arteries appear to be as amenable to the treatment as the healthy, and torsion requires no more care under these or any circumstances than the application of a ligature. On Torsion. Ou torsion. ' should then be drawn out, as in the application of the ligature, and three or four sharp rotations of the forceps made. In large arteries such as the femoral, the rotation should be repeated till the sense of resistance has ceased. The ends should not be twisted off. In small arteries the number of rotations is of no importance, and their ends