52 ERYTHEMA. Isolation and fresh air. Erythema. When transitory. Erythema as a disease. Varieties. Wilson and Hebra on erythema. Treatment. to a separate ward. All dressings and towels as they leave the ward or chamber should be burnt or disinfected ; and a sponge should never be used. Plenty of fresh air ought to be admitted into the room, but no draught; and disinfectants should be freely distributed about. No medical practitioner under any circumstances should go direct from a case of erysipelas to a midwifery case, or to dress a wound of any sort, accidental or surgical. If he is obliged to attend a labour when iu charge of such a case, he should allow as much time as possible to intervene before doing so, and then should attend only after having changed his clothes and carefully disinfected his hands, for there is a direct connection between erysipelas and puerperal fever. ERYTHEMA. Erythema finds its place here, as in its clinical features it bears some resemblance to the simple cutaneous erysipelas, and has been mistaken for it. It appears as a roseate or more vivid injection of the skin, of a local or general character, disappearing on pressure, and accompanied with some slight degree of cedematous swelling. In its mere transitory form, when it appears as a cutaneous hyper- aemia, it may be regarded as a symptom of some bowel or intestinal irritation, induced by irregularity in diet, or other cause. In so-called bilious subjects it is by no means uncommon, a local patch of redness on some part of the face, or other part of the body, often indicating the approach of a “ bilious attack.” It is found, also, where organic disease of the intestines is present. In other cases it precedes an attack of smallpox, attends vaccinia, and is common in children. Hebra gives the term erythema fugax to all these symptomatic forms of erythema. Erythema, as a disease, more commonly attacks the extremities than the trunk, and the dorsal surfaces iu preference to other parts. When the efflorescence appears in small patches of papules or tubercles upon the fingers or hands, the terms !E. papulatum and E. tuierculatmn are respectively given. When these patches assume the form of a red ring, the term JE. aw- nulare is applied to it. When a second ring forms round the first, before it has passed away, or when it is represented by a small spot, the E. iris is formed; and where many such circles or half-circles appear together, and touch or coalesce and spread, the E. circinatum and E. gyratmi are respectively present. Wilson mentions a case in ■which the E. gyratum covered the whole body; but all these different forms of erythema must be regarded as different stages of the same disease. Hebra says, “ it will depend on the period at which the patient comes under medical observation whether the case shall be dia- gnosed as E. papulatmn or E. gyratwm. ” He gives one term to the whole, E. multiforme. As the disease subsides, a slight desquamation follows, and then some small deposit of pigment. Mr. Morrant Baker describes an Erythema serpens which follows a slight, probably poisoned abrasion, and spreads in a circular manner, leaving the injured part well. It generally occurs in the hand. (‘ St. Barthol. Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. ix.) All these forms run a definite course, and have a tendency to get well, lasting from one to three or four weeks. They requii-e for