OPERATIONS ON THE PALATE. 531 required in tliie proceeding not to tear or injure the soft parts, and more particularly the anterior and posterior portions where the vessels enter. The other steps of the operation are such as have been already described. Since November 22, 1873, however. Sir W. Fergusson has Fergusson’s adopted with great success a method of dealing with fissures of the new opera- hard palate which was originally proposed by DiefEenhach in his ‘ Operative Surgery,’ 1845. There is a want of evidence that the opera- tion was ever previously performed, and Sir W. Fergusson was not aware even of the suggestion when he published his paper (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1874). The operation, as seen in Figs. 203 and 204, is as follows : Holes are first drilled with a curved brad-awl through the margins of the hard palate (Fig. 203, c) for the passage of the threads, wliile the Fig. 203. Em. 204. A. Preliminary punctures with awl to give line for chisel. B. Incision through hone completed by chisel. C. Holes bored through hard and soft palate for sutures. I 1). Junction of hard and soft palate. E. Lateral openings subsequently filled up by granulation. These drawings were kindly made for me by Mr. W. Rose. aalate itself is then cut through with a chisel in a line parallel to and ibout half an inch from the edge of the cleft (Fig. 203, b), such a step being much facilitated by acting upon Mr. Mason’s suggestion of pre- viously drilling the bone with the curved brad-awl (Fig. 203, a). This loosening of the margins of the hard palate, allows the borders of the cleft to be brought together along its whole length, after the margins have been pared and the stitches twisted (Fig. 204). When any dif- Sculty is experienced in approximating the loosened portions of the hard palate, the bones may be separated and prised dowm by means of the chisel, and the lateral openings plugged with lint. Indeed, if the bones are well loosened aud the lateral openings well plugged, no sutures are required through the hard palate, the parts falling well to- gether. The operation is very valuable, aud in my hands has been successful. When operative relief cannot be given in these cases or has failed. Use of the patient must be handed over to an experienced dentist, for with a metallic good obturator of gold or other material, great comfort can be given, ^ and even a velum may be supplied of India rubber. On these points an article in ‘Holmes’s Surgery,’ by my friend Mr. James Salter, may be