241 DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND CEANIHM. constant and wearying character, the suspicion should he excited of these symptoms being due to a local ostitis. When the swelling is tender to the touch and pain is aggravated by local pressure, this suspicion should be strengthened; and when these conditions are attended by Fig. 74. Necrosis of frontal bone (from Emily S—, set. 19). June, 1870. pyrexia more or less severe, sleeplessness, a quick irritable pulse, and a contracted pupil, a local inflammation of the hone may safely he diagnosed, the inflammation probably involving the dura mater within and the periosteum without. Under these circumstances a free incision Free incision. down to the hone should be made, since experience has proved that by the adoption of this practice, pain and other symptoms are, as a rule, relieved, and serious brain complications are often prevented. When external suppuration with the exposure of dead or dying bone yvTien is present, it is less common to meet with cerebral symptoms, since the external pus finds its way externally through the wound, and there is conse- quently less irritation and pressure on the dura mater, as well as less ® brain irritation. Should, however, brain complications appear, it is im- portant for the surgeon to interfere, to prevent their spreading, as when confirmed brain symptoms have manifested themselves, the case is almost hopeless. The surgeon, under these circumstances, should attempt to remove the necrosed bone, or perforate it by the trephine Removal of —both these operations having one common object, viz. to give free vent dead bone, to the pus beneath the bone. Trephining, under such circumstances, is not only a justifiable, but. Trephining, probably, a valuable operation, and if performed with care, can do little harm. When operation is postponed till confirmed brain sym- ptoms have appeared there is too much reason to believe that irremedi- able changes have taken place, such as suppuration within the hemi- sphere or arachnitis, which no operation is likely to relieve. Trephining has, however, been of use even in such cases when complicated with epileptiform convulsions; but the surgeon should anticipate this stage of the disease when he can, and interfere before such symptoms appear; headache of a local and persistent character, associated with evident signs of local ostitis or necrosis, is always an indication of the propriety of trephining. I need hardly add that constitutional treatment such as has been mentioned under the heading of encephalitis and will be alluded to VOL. I. 16