61 ON SEPTICEMIA. appearances would be seen, beyond, perhaps, a general softening of the viscera, or some purpuric condition. Duration of the disease.—There seems reason to believe that a patient may die in two or three days after the 6rst appearance of the symptoms, and, as a rule, bad cases terminate during the second week. Others go on for six or seven weeks. The longer a patient lives the greater the hopes of a successful issue. Prognosis.—In every case of blood poisoning great cause for anxiety exists, it being impossible to foretell its course or its end. In one case, a small dose of the poison will prove fatal, while in another a full dose will be thrown off. The violence of the attack does not depend upon the severity or size of the wound; for a trifling wound is at times followed by urgent symptoms, while a severe local injury may be followed by but few, if any, complications. Indeed, some of the severest cases of blood poisoning are found in those in whom there is no wound. A robust person, doubtless, has a better chance of recovery than a feeble, and an abstemious one than a drunkard. Where diseased viscera exist, particularly diseased kidneys, the prospects of recovery are small indeed, the capabilities of a patient to resist any diseased action under these circumstances being slight in the extreme. A single attack of traumatic fever may pass off without trouble, but a relapse or a second attack always indicates serious mischief. Rigors rarely occur without suggesting the presence of some secondary deposit or local in- flammation. One rigor may pass off and leave no trace of harm behind, but a succession of them is associated too frequently with the gravest local complications, such as secondary metastatic abscesses. These abscesses also when they occur outside any of the three great cavities of the body are less dangerous than when they occur in the viscera. Acute pyaemia is always accompanied with great danger; but when the disease is chronic there is always more hope. The occurrence of pyaemia in different classes of cases is well shown in the following tables : Analysis of the 217 cases of Pgeemia. Of 217 cases— 68 or 31'3 per cent, were after compound fractures as a whole. 24 or 11’ per cent, not amputated. 44 „ 20'2 „ ^ amputated. , were after amputation for disease. , „ after other operations. , „ after injury without operation. , ,, after disease without operation. , „ idiopathic. 2'9 per cent, puerperal. Through the kindness of Dr. Steele, who has aided me in this statis- tical investigation, I am able also to give the following interesting facts respecting pyaemia. Out of 790 cases of compound fracture, 192 died, or 24' per cent. 68 of pyaemia, or 8'6 per cent. Of 184 cases treated by amputation— 89 died, or 47'7 per cent. 44 of pyaemia, or 23'9 per cent. 26 28 21 60 12 12- 12-9 9-6 27-6 5-5 Duration. Prognosis. Comparative frequency after injuries aiul diseases.