OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. 362 Iridectomy upwards. Iridectomy downwards and outwards. Accidents during iridectomy. Wound of lens. Loss of vitreous. Detachment of iris from insertion. Difficulties. Artificial pupil. Position of new pupil. Methods of making artificial pupil. Incision. To perform iridectomy upwards, a bent iridectomy knife should be used, and the incision made in the sclerotic above the upper margin of the cornea, an assistant should then draw the eyeball downwards with forceps, the iris forceps should be inserted, and the portion of iris re- moved as previously directed. An inexperienced operator will find it much easier to remove the portion of iris from its outer and lower segment. In this case a straight iridectomy knife can be used, and no assistant is required. The result is rather an ugly gap; the disadvantage of which, however, is quite counterbalanced by the ease and safety with which the operation can be performed. Accidents lohich may happen during the operation of iridectomy, and difficulties which may be encountered.—The accidents which may occur are— (1) Wound of the lens from insufficient care in keeping the point of the knife well forward, and out of the area of the pupil. This accident will, in all probability, be followed by the formation of traumatic cataract. (2) Escape of vitreous humour, is very likely to occur in hard eyes, if the knife be too quickly withdrawn, or if undue pressure be exerted on the globe with the forceps. (3) The iris may be torn away from its insertion at a point opposite to the incision, if undue traction be exercised upon it with the iris forceps. Difficulties,—The iris may be found so rigid that it cannot be seized with the forceps, or so rotten that only very small portions can be brought away ; sometimes it bleeds profusely when touched, filling the anterior chamber with blood, and considerably hindering the operation. Artificial pupil.—The operation for artificial pupil is performed to open a new path for rays of light to the retina, the natural passage being obstructed. It is indicated in the following cases:—(1) In opacity of the cornea, with or without anterior synechiae. (2) In closure of the pupil. (3) In extensive posterior synechiae. (4) In central opacity of the lens or its capsule. The artificial pupil must be small, as nearly central and as well defined as possible. Care must be taken to make it behind that por- tion of the cornea which is most transparent and least altered incurva- ture, the best situation being ascertained by oblique illumination. The new pupil must not be made upwards, or it will be covered by the upper lid. _ _ An artificial pupil can be made in any of tbe following ways:—(Ij By incision of the iris. (2) By tearing it away from its insertion. (3) By excision of a portion (iridectomy for artificial pupil). (4) By ligature. ^ , In operations for artificial pupil the position of patient amt surgeon should be the same as in "iridectomy,” and an anaesthetic should be administered. _ , I (a). Incision (Pig. 102 A).—This operation is called for in cases ot complete closure of the pupil, following removal of the lens, either by operation or injury, but is not advisable unless the lens be absent. In