543 DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. Tooth as seen through opening in upper jaw. Natural size of tooth when removed. fail in development and remain within the jaw, the tooth, acting as a foreign body, setting up irritation, and causing the cystic affection I am now considering, or some solid growth. Thus in a hoy set. 6, who Examples. came under my care some years ago, a cystic enlargement of the jaw of three years’ development existed. It encroached on the orbit, mouth, and cheek. I made an opening into the anterior wall of the cyst, makmg a window in the hone, and, through this, an incisor tooth was seen with its crown upwards (Fig. 215). The tooth was removed and a good recovery ensued. In January, 1872, I treated a similar case in a girl, set. 17, sent to me by Mr. Salter, who Fio. 215. had had her under ob- servation for two years. The disease was in the right upper jaw, and the right canme tooth was deficient. I ex- posed the cavity and removed the tooth (which was growing in an abnormal direction upwards and inwards), a good recovery taking place. I saw my col- league Mr. Poland open one in the low'er jaw, and remove a tooth with success. On July 24,1875, 1 trephined a tumour of three or four years’ growth of the lower jaw of Miss R—, ffit. 30, a patient of Mr. R. Moon’s, of Norwood, and also of Mr. Salter’s, and removed from it a canine tooth which was resting obliquely in the cavity (Fig. 216). Mr. Salter has collected many similar cases. It is well to remember, that these dentigerous cysts like other cysts of the jaws, may simulate solid tumours. When they occur in the lower jaw and expand the hone, this error is very likely to take place. In aU tu- mours of the jaws that have a smooth or cystic outline it is well, therefore, to make an exploratory puncture for the purpose of dia- gnosis. When the walls crackle from thethinness of the expanded cavity, the diagnosis is simple. Treatment.—The free opening of the cyst is the one essential point of practice to observe in all these cystic diseases of the jaws, upper or lower, with the extraction of any tooth that may he present in the Fig. 216. Canine tooth as seen in case of Miss B—, in expanded lower jaw with tooth (b) of its natural size. a. Bone removed by the trephine. Treatment of dentigerous cysts.