ALVEOLAR PERIOSTITIS. 583 tion of tartar upon the root, besides being one of the commonest causes of this condition, is apt to attend upon and increase it when arising from other causes. When the periosteal inflammation is more acute and pus is formed about the necks of the teeth, a solution of chloride of zinc—8 grs. to the ounce—will he found a beneflcial mouth wash and will correct fcetor. Th« general symptoms of dental periostitis have been given at page 571; it may be added that when due to rheumatism, toothache is apt to he present and swelling and suppuration absent, and that it will often sibside of itself, while in a scrofulous subject, or when due to syphilis,the pain is often slight and the tendency to suppurative inflam- mation narked, and that in these cases the loss of the teeth is immi- nent and that their extraction at once may be desirable. Periostitis of the alviolar process of the jaw, leading to necrosis, may be caused by syphilis, soughing of the gums, or alveolar abscess, or may have a trau- matic origa. The funes of phosphorus, productive of “ phosphorus necrosis,” Phosphorus probably fi>d a readier ingress when the pulp of a tooth is exposed, and other irrita ts productive of periosteal inflammation may act through the same chnnel. Necrosis f the alveolar portion of the jaw in children may follow Necrosis either of tluexanthemata, and will not always lead to the loss of the permanent teth if due time is given for the separation of the necrosed portion. Inflammatin of a subacute type may attack the periodontum of one tooth after anther and lead to their successive loss in cases where the roots of the toth are exposed through the recedence of the gums and alveolar margi from senile absorption or other causes. Local Denti Periostitis.—With the exception of the condition just Local named, inflammation attacking the alveolo-dental membrane of a single periodontitis, tooth results fim pre-existing disease in the tooth or is due to some local cause of i-itation, such as a ligature applied carelessly for regu- lating purposesor for fracture of the jaw, the accumulation of tartar, or the undue ad oblique pressure of an antagonist tooth. Chronic inflammation a4 thickening of the periodontum is often complicated either as cause^r effect with exostosis or with a very small chronic alveolar ahscessahout the apex of a stump, and is, in these cases, associated sememes with severe neuralgia, the pain simulating that of tic-douloureu: The Dental C,ts which sometimes form on the roots of teeth are pro- Dental cysts, bably generally le outcome of conditions which in their more sthenic form lead to the ormation of alveolar abscess. An alveolar abscess may pass into a cj;ic condition, and it is certain that these cysts (which may contain cholterine) may suppurate, and then to all intents and purposes they beone converted into alveolar abscesses. Periodontal inimmation of an acute form, producing Alveolar Alveolar Abscess, is the naral sequel of death of the pulp, the products of the “hscess. decomposition of us structure passing through the foramen at the end of the root, gring rise to it. Pus formed between the root and its investing memane may separate the latter from the former and escape around thcieck of the tooth, in which case, if the dentinal pulp is also dead, e tooth becomes absolutely necrosed and is to be regarded as a form body. Pus may become diffused beneath the