DENTAL SUEGERY. 569 was productive of severe neuralgia. In tills case the presence of an impacted upper canine, which caused a prominence on the palate, gave Complication rise for eight years to constantly recurring, most severe neuralgic pain, resulting confined to a circumscribed spot on the left side of the vertex of the . head. In other cases it may give rise to cystic enlargement or abscess, the latter, perhaps late in life, from the buried tooth becoming more superficial through absorption of the containing bone. The palate may be involved if a tooth is impacted v/ithin the palatine process of the superior maxilla, or an abscess may be formed below the tongue from impacted lower teeth. The following case was reported by Mr. McCoy in the ‘ Lancet,’ 1871: —A boy, set. 14, had a tumour of the antrum the size of an apricot, due to an impacted canine, the crown of which projected into the antrum, while the root was impacted in a socket in the nasal process; the antral cavity contained a little glairy fluid, but was chiefly filled by a gelati- nous substance—appai’ently thickened mucous membrane. Absence of Teeth.—A few cases are recorded of edentulous jaws. Non-develop- Wisdom and upper lateral incisors, the teeth most liable to variation of in size and shape, are also the most liable to suppression. Occasionally other permanent teeth fail to make their appearance, in which case it may be right to leave their predecessors undisturbed, if they show no signs of loosening; temporary molars may in such cases serve for many years. The tendency of particular teeth to take irregular positions, and the Odontomcs liability of others not to be developed, are facts that have to be borne in mind in connection with the probable dental origin of tumours and 0X818.° cysts of the jaws. Before passing to the second division of our subject it maybe useful The affections to enumerate tbe morbid conditions which may be simulated by the tumours, cysts, &c., which originate from an unerupted tooth in the ways described in previous pages. Odontomes may give rise to appearances such as may be presented by benign or malignant tumours, whether arising spontaneously or due to the impaction of a foreign body, such as root of tooth, splinter of bone, or a bullet. Dentigerous cysts, when slowly forming and before they have thinned the enclosing bone to an extent which would allow of the characteristic sign of craquement on pressure, may be difficixlt to diagnose from solid tumours. A dentigerous cyst may also produce the same symptoms as a cyst formed on the root of an erupted and diseased tooth, and when through inflammation its fluid contents become purnlent it may, in like manner, resemble an alveolar abscess (i. e. an abscess formed around the root of a diseased tooth), and, like it, will be apt to give rise to a fistulous opening. Suppuration in the antrum, or Empyema, arises probably in two dis- Empyema of tinct ways. In the one case it is due to inflammation of the lining antrum, membrane of the cavity, which, being continuous with the mucous mem- brane of the nose, allows of the escape of tbe contained purulent fluid into the middle meatus by the natural orifice. In the other case the pus is contained in a sac which has expanded into the antral cavity, carrying the lining membrane before it, and then the pus does not find exit by the nasal opening; this latter condition (as pointed out by