STJTUEES. 147 by means of a figure-of-eight twist around the two ends. Should the apposition of the surfaces be imperfect, the pin should be taken out and readjusted, and in this lies the great advantage of this form of suture. A second and third pin may then be introduced in the same way. After the silk has been tied in knots and the ends cut off, the points of the needles ought to be removed, and the soft parts pro- tected, if necessary, from the ends by a small piece of lint or strapping passed beneath. Instead of silk being twisted round the pins, a section of an india- rubber tube, in the form of a ring, has been employed by Mr. Gariel much in the same way as Mr. H. Lee applies his India rubber over a pin employed for varicose veins, either of the extremities or testicle. I have tried the plan in many cases, and find it, though beneficial, yet not better than silk. The quilled suture is very valuable, particularly in deep wounds, Quilled tending more than any other to keep the parts in apposition. In plastic suture, operations in the perinasum in the female it has always been a favourite, and although I gave it up in these cases for many years in favour of metal sutures, I now use it with considerable success. In gastrostomy it is probably the best we possess for holding equably the margins of the open stomach to the edges of the wound, as it is in other cases of abdominal cysts, ovarian and otherwise, in which the same end is sought. For the application of this suture, a strong curved needle with an eye at the end and threaded is to be inserted at least three quarters of an inch from one margin of the wound, and made to pass well down to its depths, then brought out through the other margin in a corre- sponding line. The loop of the suture should now be caught and held, and the needle withdrawn ; a piece of bougie, cut the required length, being introduced into the loop, is fixed by drawing the free ends of the ligature home (Fig. 37). A second or third suture can be applied FiO- 37. Fia. 38. in the same way. A second piece of bougie ought then to be tied on the opposite margin of the wound, the pai’ts having been well cleansed previously, and carefully adjusted. The surfaces of the