593 FOREIGN BODIES. be passed should be introduced daily, and retained. The patient should, when possible, take solid food finely minced, and when otherwise, fluid Diet, nourishment. Milk can often be drunk when other food is refused. I Beef tea is always useful, and HassalTs flour of meat mixed with it I is an excellent addition. Brand’s liquid essence of meat is also i invaluable. When swallowing becomes impossible, the cautious passage of a flne tube through the stricture for the introduction of liquid food may be ; undertaken, though this proceeding is hazardous, and can rarely Eneraata. be repeated for many days. Nutritious enemata appear to me to be preferable, beef tea thickened with flour or arrowroot, with milk and i egg, or a mixture of a pound of minced beef and one third of a pound 1 of fresh pancreas, one half of which being introduced into the rectum i night and morning, administered every four hours alternately, tending I more than anything else to keep up the powers of the patient. When I all these means fail, or rather before—for it is known that life cannot be very long maintained under such circumstances—the question of Gastrostomy, opening the stomach by an operation must be entertained. Billroth recently has cut down upon the oesophagus and excised the cancerous growth, but without success—the operation, however, is oidy commended to our consideration by the eminence of the surgeon who performed it. Foreign Bodies i are occasionally arrested in the pharynx, and, when pointed, may Foreign become fixed in the soft parts about the base of the longue, or between the pillars of the fauces; but when bulky and solid, they are generally arrested at the narrowest portion of the tube, its lowest portion, behind the cricoid cartilage, or at the cardia. The discomfort caused by this Symptoms. ' accident is at times very great, and difficulty in swallowing, pain, and the disposition to vomit are common symptoms. A pricking sensa- tion in the part is generally present when the substance is pointed, ! although it must be remembered that this symptom often remains I .after the substance has been dislodged. Where the epiglottis or upper i orifice of the larynx is irritated, cough and other laryngeal symptoms I will be produced, and the same may be said when a solid body becomes I impacted beliind the larynx ; the larynx under these circumstances being I either so compressed as to cause suffocation, or so irritated as to give I rise to spasm, either of these causes being sufficient to produce death. When small bodies lodge in the part, they may give rise to intlam- May cause I mation and absce.sses in the pharynx and neck; indeed, instances are I on record in which disease of the cervical vertebrae has been the result. ; Coins may be impacted in the pharynx for many months, and Dr. O. ’>c 1 Ward relates a case (‘ Path. Trans.,’ 1848-9) in which a halfpenny was '“'Pacte . I so placed for eight months, the child at last, in a fit of coughing, 1 bringing it up. Tkeatment.—Whenever a foreign body, large or small, is suspected Treatment. 1 to have become lodged in the pharynx, a surgical exploration of the Exploration. ! mouth, base of the tongue, and fauces should be made, and by carefully * sweeping these parts with the index finger any foreign body will be 1 detected. By this proceeding the foreign body may be dislodged. 1 When any body is fixed in a part, it may be removed by forceps, the I ordinary dressing forceps, as a rule, sufficing ; when the body is lower Use of I down the revolving oesophageal forceps, as made for me by Mr. Krohue, forceps. VOL. I. 38