268 INTEA-SPINAL INFLAMMATION, ETC. Of pTolonged rest. Cupping, &c. Mercury. Iodide of potassium. Strychnine. Iron. Avoid bedsores. cussion, this practice is of primary importance, and I am disposed to attribute the frequent occurrence of obscure railway spinal cases to the non-observance of this rule. It is true that in the majority of cases there are no definite indications of spinal concussion after the acci- dent, though the nature of the accident itself is a sufficient guide to the case. A general shaking of the body means a general concussion of the spine with every other part, and the nerve centres by reason of their structure are most liable to injury. It would be well, therefore, to keep all patients who have been the subjects of such injuries quiet and in repose for several weeks after the accident. By doing this, much mischief would often be avoided. After concussion, when severe local pain is experienced, relief is often given by the application of a dry cupping glass on either side of the painful part, and the operation may be repeated. In exceptional cases the local extraction of blood may be found of benefit. The ice- bag is a powerful remedy for good when there is much effusion of blood or pain in the part, and, when the symptoms of reaction are too marked. The diet should be nutritious, but unstimulating, and nothing likely to keep up or cause mental or physical excitement allowed. When recovery of power in the limbs is slow, and no symptoms of secondary inflammation of the cord exist, convalescence is promoted by the application of electricity in one or other of its forms to the enfeebled muscles. When symptoms of intra-spinal inflammation have appeared, some advocate moxas or setons in addition to the above treatment; and of the two the moxa is, perhaps, preferable. Mercury in one of its forms appears to be a valuable remedy, and the perchloride is, per- haps, the best preparation, given in doses of l-16th of a grain turn or three times a day combined with bark, quinine, or some other vegetable bitter according to the wants of the patient. When mercury is inapplicable, the iodide of potassium should be substituted. Seda- tives should be allowed to procure sleep, and the hydrate of chloral seems to be the best, in twenty or thirty grain doses, at bedtime. Should pain be constant, fifteen grains of the same drug may be given twice a day, a double dose being allowed at night. The extract of belladonna in one third of a grain, or half-grain doses, is likewise a valuable sedative. Strychnine is a dangerous drug in spinal disease, at least, in progressive spinal disease. It is a distinct stimulant to the spinal centres, and is, consequently, most injurious as long as any progressive inflammatory action exists. When only the effects of the disease remain and all inflammation has ceased to manifest its presence strychnine may be given. Should general feebleness exist, iron may be given with it; and I know of no nervine tonic so beneficial as the com- bination of the tincture of the perchloride of iron in doses of fifteen minims, with five minims of the tincture of nux vomica or one or two grains of quinine. Cod-liver oil is a valuable adjunct to all treat- ment in this as in many other cases. Great care should be observed throughout the treatment of these affections to prevent the occurrence of bedsores. They form very rapidly when spinal paralysis is present. I have seen several instances in which all the soft parts over the bones sloughed, and the spinal canal was opened; while in others the sacral bone may partially exfoliate.