218 HEMORRHAGE INTO BRAIN. fall from a height or a blow from a heavy weight; the whole brain having been violently shaken or “concussed,” and, as a result its deli- cate structure more particularly that of the base, has been bruised or lacerated, weak or diseased vessels being very apt to give way, produc- ing hBBinorrhage. Haemorrhage external to the dura mater may, it is true, be present in these cases of general injury, but it will be compli- cated with extravasation into deeper parts; and this point of diagnosis is all important, since in the former class of cases, when the blood is between the bone and dura mater, sui’gical treatment may be of ines- timable value, whilst in the latter it can be of no service. HiEmorrhage Hasraorrhage upon the surface of the brain is a very important sub- brain^ifter'^^ variably degrees in every case of severe or general fracture with ^0 the skull, whether complicated or not with fracture; the bruised brain itself may be not only bruised at the seat of injury, but it will be brain. equally, if not more, injured at the opposite point by contre-cowp ; and this bruising and extravasation is generally found at the base of the brain. The haemorrhage associated with this bruising may be so slight as to give rise to no symptoms, and recovery may take place ; or it may be so great as to induce symptoms of compression. But when a large vessel of the pia mater is ruptured, the bleeding will be severe, and under these circumstances the blood may spread into all the parts down to the base, covering in the cerebellum and spinal cord. It is this fact that renders all cases of general injury to the brain so serious, and tells so powerfully against any operative interference in such a class of cases, the surgeon being quite unable to reach the source of compression by trephining. HsemoTTbage Haemorrhage into the cavity of the arachnoid is by no means a arachno^ common consequence of head injury, but it may occur as a result after injury, either of a local or direct injury to the skull, or of a diffused one; and the effused blood may be poured out upon one or both sides of the cerebrum. When the effusion is gradual and not extensive, no definite symptoms of compression will be produced; but when extensive, although symptoms of compression may appear, there will be nothing to indicate the precise position of the haemorrhage. In patients who have albuminuria, or diseased arteries, there is reason to think that a slight injury to the head may cause extravasation of blood into the arachnoid, and this fact has an important practical bearing, furnishing a key to the solution of many a doubtful case of head injury. Pathology has taught us that blood clots may organise and form what are now known as arachnoid cysts, having smooth external sur- lisemorrliage. jjjjg serous membrane; which when recent, will be soft and pulpy; when old, fibrous. They may contain only serous fluid more or less blood-stained, or clots of blood altered by time. Sometimes these cysts are found to be loose in the arachnoid cavity, at others flxed to the parietal arachnoid. They are usually found accidentally after death in those who have sufl'ered from mental disorder or general paralysis, and although more commonly they exist on one side of the head only, they are sometimes found on both. ^ ^ ^ Dr. Crichton Browne (‘Journal of Psychological Medicine, De- cember, 1875) tells us that out of 1240 post-mortem examinations made at the West Riding Asylum, there were 59 examples of arach- noid cysts: 43 occurred in males, IG in females, and the majority Patients witli kidney disease. Arachnoid evsts after