DISEASES OP THE ARTERIES. 432 she perfectly recovered in three weeks. She remained well and returned to her ordinary duties, those of a laundress, for three months, when, whilst kneeling, she suddenly felt a severe pain in the right leg, extending down the calf. This was rapidly followed by numbness and coldness of the leg, and discoloration. She was admitted into Guy’s under my care, three days subsequently, with gangrene of the foot and lower two thirds of the leg. The pulsation in the femoral artery was normal, but no vessel could be felt below the thigh. I amputated the limb at the knee-joint on October 13th, twisting the popliteal and other arteries. Some sloughing of the stump followed, hut recovery appeared probable, when acute bronchitis set in, fol- lowed by delirium and death. Dr. Fagge kindly examined this patient’s heart before the operation and reported, “ There is scarcely any evidence of cardiac disease, but I think that I discover a short presystolic bruit. If this is so the mitral orifice is probably contracted, and a clot formed on the valve, or in one of the heart’s cavities, may have been carried into the artery of the lower limb.” After death the mitral was found the size of a button-hole. Around its edge were recent vegetations, and one of them doubtless had been carried into the circulation, causing the gangrene, as another had caused the paralysis three months previously. Many cases of senile gangrene are doubtless embolic, from the washing away of some calcareous fragment from an atheromatous vessel. Hyperais- In some cases of occlusion of an artery by an embolus, after the thesia of application of a ligature, hyperajsthesia and increased temperature of throcdus^n below the seat of obstruction may be met with. These sym- by embolus, ptoms are clearly due to the infiuence of the nervous system and the congestion of the smaller collateral vessels. Pulmonary There remains to be considered, moreover, pulmonary embolism, a embolism. form which is important to the surgeon, not so much as a disease of the lung as because it is generally a sequence of some clotting or throm- bosis as it is called, in the veins. This clotting is very common in all kinds of cases under treatment in surgical wards. We can hardly repre- sent the case too strongly, and we know of no more important subject than this relation of thrombosis to pulmonary embolism. Whenever a patient undergoes prolonged rest in bed, especially if he be naturally weak, bloodless, or debilitated from any cause whatever; if the blood he over fibrinous as in lying-in women; whenever there is any surgical fever, and in other states too numerous to mention, there is a risk of clotting occurring in the quiet parts of the circulation, especially in the veins of the lower limbs and in those of the pelvis. The symptoms are often slight. If the clot be due to phlebitis, then there may be pain; if not, there may be no more than the slightest oedema about one ankle. This, however, is sufficient to put the surgeon on his guard, and, by the subsequent enforcement of prolonged rest, time is given for the adhesion of the plug to the vein wall, and pulmonary embolism is arrested. It should be remembered, too, that clot forming in contact with a comparatively healthy vein wall, as is the case in many instances, takes time, and sometimes a very long time, before adhermg to the wall, and until it does there is the risk of its detachment when the patient moves. There can be no doubt that many have died of pulmon- ary embolism, when, with a little more vigilance on the pai-t of the attendants, the patient might have been saved.