308 AFFECTIONS OP CONJUNCTIVA. Displacement of tear puncta. Wounds. Ecchymosis. Emphysema. Lachrymal apparatus. Ophthalmia Character- istics. Diagnosis. brown dry crusts hanging to the eyelashes, which have often dropped out to a considerable extent. In old cases the margins of the lids are much thickened, giving rise to displacement of the tear puncta and consequent watering of the eye; on removing the crusts the margin of the lid will be found ulcerated, fissured, and easily bleeding. The disease consists in in- fiammation and ulceration about the roots of the lashes; it runs a very chronic course, often lasting for years in spite of remedies. Treatment.—Slight cases can generally be cured by the use of a lotion containing 4 to 6 grains of alum to the ounce of water, applied three or four times a day, and of mild nitrate of mercury ointment (one part of the ordinary nitrate of mercury ointment to eleven of lard),i smeared along the margins of the lids night and morning. The patient should be directed to i-emove all the crusts before applying the ointment. More severe cases should be treated by pulling out the lashes and removing the scabs with forceps, and then applying solid nitrate of silver to the raw surface left. Injuries.—Wounds of the eyelids, however extensive or ragged, should, after having been thoroughly cleansed, be brought accurately together; they will usually heal readily enough. Should there be any loss of substance, an endeavour must be made to prevent distortion of the lids by contraction of the resulting cicatrix. Ecchymosis of the lids (black eye) frequently occurs as the result of blows, and may be caused by leech bites or operations. Treatment.—Most cases may be left alone, but if it is desirable to get quickly rid of the effused blood, a poultice made of equal parts of the scraped root of black bryony and bread crumbs should be applied. The poultice should be kept on as long as the patient can bear it. The application is often accompanied by a good deal of stinging pain. Emphysema of the lids sometimes occurs from rupture of the mucous membrane of the nose, air being forced into the cellular tissue of the eyelids, on sneezing, or blowing the nose. Gentle pressure with cotton wool and a bandage, and avoidance of violent expiratory movements, sneezing, &c., is the only treatment required. The lachrymal apparatus.—The principal affections of the tear passages, &c., will be described in the next section. THE CONJUNCTIVA. Ophthalmia.—Under this head are collected all the different forms of inflammation of the conjunctiva. The following characters are common to all; more or less vascularity of the membrane, uneasi- ness and stiffness of the lids, pain of a smarting character, some kind of discharge, and gumming together of the lids during sleep. Inflammation of the conjunctiva has to be distinguished from in- flammation of the sclerotic or subconjunctival fascia, or the injection of these structures which is present in many of the inflammations of ' deeper parts of the globe. The distinction can be made by paying attention to the following points: 1. The inflamed conjunctiva is bright red, the vessels are large and tortuous, and anastomose freely, forming a dense network; 1 The ointments employed in the ophthalmic department at Guy’s Hospital arc no^r almost invariably prepared with vaseline instead of lard.