499 INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE VEINS. mitted air, but, in adopting this practice, care must be observed to close the orifice of the vein in the inspiratory act. Brandy and dif- fusible stimulants should also he freely given to sustain and stimulate Stimulants, the vital organs.' Hypertrophy and atrophy of veins occur in precisely similar circum- Hypertrophy stances as hypertrophy and atrophy of other structures. Thus, where atrophy increase of function of a part exists, or increased growth, the veins will ° elongate, dilate, and thicken. When decrease of function or disease of a part takes place, the veins waste or become atrophied with other structures. Hence, after amputation of the thigh, the femoral vein Examples, becomes as small as the anterior tibial; and, in Mr. Cock’s case of arterial varix related in page 460, the vein above the varix withered to a mere cord. On the other hand, in the same case of arterial varix, Fio. 161. the popliteal vein below the varix, when taking on the action of an artery, became much enlarged and thickened, in fact hypertrophied, simply on account of the increase of work it had to perform under its new condition ; and the superficial cutaneous veins through which the whole of the returning blood must have passed became enormously en- larged. An equally good instance of hypertrophy of veins can be seen when any obstruction occurs to one of the cavaj or any large venous trunk, the venous circulation making its way through other channels, which consequently en- large. Thus in Fig. 161 the skin veins of the abdomen and chest are seen to be enormously distended and hypertrophied to carry on the circulation from the lower part of the body to the heart; the lower vena cava having been completely obstructed from cancerous disease. The woman, rot. 47, a patient of Sir W. W. Gull, had no cedema of the lower extremities all through the case, thus proving the perfection if the compensatory venous colla- eral circulation, and probably indicating the gradual progress of the bstruction. Calcareous and atheromatous diseases of the coats of veins may occur, Atheroma- )ut are rare affections when compared with their frequency in the tous and irteries. In Guy’s Museum 1538“, there is a good specimen of issified saphena vein, and at St. Thomas’s Hospital and the College of veins! ° surgeons’ Museums may be found examples of calcareous degeneration 1 The reader may refer to an admirable paper on this subjeot, by Dr. J, S. Green, of lasaachuseUs, ‘ Amer. Med Journ.,’ 1864. Collateral venous circulation taken from a woman set. 47 (under the care of Sir W. W.Gull), in whom the inferior vena cava was completely obstructed from cancer. Guy’s Hosp. Mus., drawing 44''®.