283 CITEVATURE OF THE SPINE, had any chance of receiving proper treatment; who have never had rest or any care; in whom the disease has run its course untended and uncared for, and yet, in whom a cure has taken place with firm anchy- losis, although with deformity. The majority of these cases are examples of disease of the dorsal vertebrae. How far this deformity might have been lessened or prevented by proper treatment, is an open question. Nevertheless it is beyond all doubt, that in the early stage of this disease, immobility of the spine, rigidly and persistently main- Value of tained, and the removal of downward pressure are absolutely essential immobility, points of practice to be observed. Not, however, rest upon the back, for in many instances this supine position tends rather to separate parts that ought to be kept in contact; but rest in any position, prone or supine, the patient feels to be most comfortable. The general health of the patient must be maintained, as much as possible, by simple nutritious food, stimulants enough to assist diges- tion, and no more, with tonics, such as iron, quinine, and cod-liver oil. When pain exists, local fomentations are often a comfort; occasion- ally too the application of a few leeches relieves. Small flying blisters placed alternately on either side of the painful spot are sometimes of use, and a plaster of belladonna or opium rubbed down with glycerine over the part, is a valuable adjunct. When severe nerve pain is present, the hypodermic injection of morphia may be used. Sedatives must be given to induce sleep when it cannot otherwise be obtained. Setons, moxas, and mercury are not to be recommended. condemned By the adoption of this line of treatment a cure may be obtained. It must, however, be followed out for months, and even years; the greatest care being taken that the patient is not released too soon, for a relapse is always a very serious affair. Dr. Lewis A. Sayre’s plaster-of-Paris jacket appears to me to be Rnyre’s the best kind of apparatus, for it is simple, economical, easily applied, jacket, and efficient, securing absolute immobility of the spine, and at the same time giving comfort to the wearer, it can be readily applied by any medical practitioner with little expense, and does not debar the patient from the benefit of fresh air and change of scene. The body of the patient to whom it is to be applied is first to be Its appli- coveredwith a thick closely-woven merino shirt, which is to be fastened cation, above over the shoulders, and below between the thighs; in a female oyer a handkerchief. A pad of sufficient size, which Sayre calls a dinner pad, is then to be introduced beneath this shirt over the region of the stomach, of sufficient size to supply, when it is removed, a space Avhich will permit of distension of the abdominal parietes. The pa- tient is then to be supported by straps carefully adjusted to the axdlffi, symphysis mentis, and occiput (Fig. 88), attached to the ex- tremities of a cross bar which may be suspended from a hook fa^ened to a beam or high door by a compound pulley, the body being sufficiently suspended to allow of its weight serving as an extending force, but always within the limit of pain. The trunk is then to be carefully encased from below the crests of the ilia upwards to the axilla} by the rapid application of coarse muslin or crinoline bandages, 2^^ inches wide, into which dry freshly-ground plaster-of- Paris has been rubbed, the bandages just before they are used bein"' placed vertically in tepid water deep enough to cover them, and left a sufficient time to allow all bubbles to escape. The bandages should