ON SEPTICEMIA. 65 operation of necessity, to save life, it would affect his prognosis, and would most certainly influence his decision in an operation of expediency. All patients after operation should be kept in absolute repose, the wounds kept clean, and lightly dressed. Every- thing that tends to procure rapid union must be considered good, and all that induces or keeps up suppuration bad, blood poisoning and suppuration, whether with or without a wound, having a close con- nection. No one who has been in contact with any infectious disorder. Avoid such as erysipelas or scarlet fever, should be allowed to come near the infectious patient; for there can be no doubt that there is some subtle connection between these poisons and pyaemia. And, lastly, every cheering in- fluence should be brought to bear on the mind of the patient, as well as on his surroundings; for among the agents predisposing to blood poisoning, mental anxieties and depressing emotions should doubtless be reckoned. HECTIC FEVER. There can be little doubt that surgeons of former times included under the above heading many cases of what we now call septicaemia, pyaemia, or blood poisoning; and even at the present time it is an open point as to how far the symptoms which denote hectic fever are due to the absorption of some foreign element into the blood. That hectic fever is never found except in those who are the victims of destructive organic changes, chiefly of a suppurative nature, is an established fact; and it is in such also that confirmed blood poisoning generally occurs. The physician meets with this condition in pneu- monia, phthisis, empyema, abscess in the liver, kidneys, or ovary; the surgeon in suppurative diseases of joints and bones, in spinal disease, compound fractures, diffused suppurations, &c. In all classes of cases Symptoms, there is a destructive wasting and influence at work, underminiug the patient’s powers and producing general emaciation. Tlie characteristic symptoms are of a remittent character, and usually appear at least once daily, generally towards evening, but they may occur more frequently. They are not unlike those of ague. A paroxysm of hectic may be said to commence with fever, of more Fever, or less intensity; the skin will be hot and dry, the pulse rapid and feeble. The face, too, will be flushed in a single patch, and the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet hot and burning. The tongue during the paroxysm may be dry, and great thirst pre- sent. There will, however, be no brain symptoms, no clouding of the intellect, no delirium. The febrile condition may be preceded by Bi^ors. shivering or chilliness, but such symptoms are unusual, and are always lollowed by a profuse and exhaustive sweat. This sweating ,, ^ is indeed peculiar to the affection, for it bears no proportion to the febrile symptoms that preceded it. At the commencement of the disease the febrility may be so slight as hardly to be noticed, and yet the patient on falling to sleep and awakening will be bathed in perspiration. When the disease is at its height the cold, hot, and sweat- ing stages may be easily seen; but when it declines the febrile symptoms will be constant, although aggravated towards night, while the morn- ing “ colliquative ” sweats gradually become more profuse as life ebbs away. VOL. I. 5