287 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NERVES. blow has been severe, the pain may be lasting, and the functions of the nerve so disturbed or interfered with as to give rise to loss of power or sensation in the parts supplied by the injured nerve. A man, set. 29, Examples, went to sleep with his elbow resting on a table, and when he awoke there was complete paralysis both of motion and sensation of the parts supplied by the ulnar nerve. When I saw him two days afterwards, these symptoms were very marked; there was also tenderness over the nerve behind the inner condyle; to which spot a blister was applied. In a fort- night returning sensation appeared, with some slight power of motion ; and in five weeks he was well. This was clearly a case of paralysis of a nerve from contusion. A man, set. 46, received a blow upon his ulnar nerve against a chair. No pain appeared at the time, but three hours later, pain and numbness showed themselves, and at this time some thickening over the spot could be made out. In the course of three weeks these symptoms disappeared and recovery was complete. In this case it would apppear, as if some ha;morrhage had taken place into the nerve sheath, giving rise to the parah’sis, which disappeared as the blood was absorbed. Wounds of Nerves. When a nerve is wounded, pain is produced, and this may be of Wounded a passing or more permanent character. In nervous, hysterical sub- nerve, jects the nerve pain is sometimes severe and persistent, and is then called neuralgia. It may be confined to a branch of the injured nerve, or it may involve the whole trunk. When a nerve is divided, complete paralysis of the parts supplied by Divided it follows. It may, however, reunite and recovery may thus take place, nerve. Paget, in his ‘ Lectures on Surgical Pathology,’ 3rd ed., has related a case of complete division of the median nerve, in which the trunk had nearly recovered its conducting power a month after the wound. I have seen a similar case in which recovery ensued in four months. The following is another example in point. A woman, mt. 30, came to E.vamplr. me with an incised wound behind the inner condyle of the humerus. The ulnar nerve had been completely divided', and there was perfect paralysis of motion and sensation of the parts supplied by it. The edges of the wound were adjusted and the arm placed in a sling. A month later, she returned with a burning pain in the little finger, which was really cold, but red, swollen, shining and blistered; and, when touched, some slight sensation was produced. Cotton wool and oiled lint were applied, and the arm was fixed upon a straight splint. The original wound had nearly healed. In two weeks the finger looked natural; sensation in it and all other parts supplied by the nerve had improved. In another month she returned with the old symptoms as bad as ever. They had reappeared upou the removal of the splint two weeks previously ; but on its reapplication with the cotton wool, they again disappeared. The splint was then kept on for two months when sensation became natural, complete repair having taken place in four months. When seen six months later, she was still well. The red, swollen, shining, and blistered condition of a finger deprived Cliarac- of nerve force is characteristic, and is generally associated with the sensation of a burning pain and loss of temperature, amounting some- times to a depression of 9° or 10° Fahr. These symptoms are clearly due to mal-nutrition. When the nerve repair does not take place, these symptoms are very apt to return from time to time, on any change