TREATMENT OF COMPRESSION. 230 E in 5yn tf ff me ell Venesection. Venesection boldly performed at this stage of the disease, so as to affect the pulse, is a good remedy. It may even be repeated should the symptoms return and the pulse and temperature rise. In feeble patients, however, bleeding is inadmissible, and under all circumstances it ought only to be resorted to after careful consideration. Cold to Lead. Ice to the head or a stream of cold water passed over it are means that ought never to be neglected. Powerful purgation, also, is valu- able. The diet should be liquid and of a simple kind. Milk, when it can be taken, is the best, but when it cannot, weak beef tea or broth should be given, and then only in moderation. Treatment of Concussion of the brain, complicated with either simple or compound fracture and undepressed fracture or fracture of the base, is to be treated upon like concussion, principles, with equal persistency and care, for simple fractures of the vault, compound fractures of the vault, and simple fractures of the base or of the vatilt and base combined, unassociated with displace- ment, require no special treatment beyond that indicated by the brain symptoms. It should be here stated that the treatment of all these conditions is to be continued for at least a month or six weeks after the injury, because many are the cases on record in which secondary inflammatory symptoms appeared at least a month after the accident, or after the subsidence of the primary symptoms. Treatment of Treatment of compression.—When the brain symptoms following compression. injury to the head partake more of the nature of compression, that is, when they are persistent in their character, and, instead of going on towards recovery, or the restoration of the natural functions of the brain, tend rather towards their more complete abeyance; other ques- tions of treatment come before the surgeon, and the most important has reference to the fact whether surgical art can do anything towards relieving the condition. Surgical The student who has carefully read the remarks that have already interference been made can now understand, when the injury to the brain or skull useless m been the result of some general injury, such as a fall upon the head injuries of the from a height, or a blow from a heavy body, that the brain mischief cranium and which follows is certain to be of a general character, and when symptoms its contents, local mischief complicate the case, little good is to be gained by treating these local symptoms when others of a more general or fatal character exist. In examples of brain or skull injury, there- fore, as a result of diffused or general shaking of the head and its contents, local interference of any special character is generally useless. Surgical In local injuries, however, the question may be seriously discussed, interference In cases of depressed f racture, ought the bone to be elevated ? and iocal^ta^uries should the fact of the fracture being compound influence the decision ? oTthrskull I have no hesitation in answering both questions, and asserting that in neither instance ought surgical interference to be thought of unless the symptoms of compression are marked or persistent; for experience has taught us that depressed bone per se may exist to a great degree without giving rise to any serious brain complications, and that when even brain symptoms follow as an immediate result of ■ tion of blood the injury, they may all pass away. between bone Should, however, the symptoms indicate the presence of effused nwter!^'^^ Wood beneath the fracture, suflScient to cause compression of the brain, and its contents. Depressed fracture. Extravasa-