407 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. of the dlscliarge from the ear. Should you, however, see the child Treatment before the pain is relieved, you may by the timely use of the remedies of mentioned as useful in otitis media and the free opening of any en- Membrane largement over the mastoid process, with, if necessary, opening into the tympani. mastoid itself if there be indications of pus-accumulation there, prevent the destruction of valuable structures. The great cause of the affec- tion is scarlet fever, though measles and typhoid fever contribute largely to the number of cases. When the acute purulent has become chronic there is a wide-spread Treatment prejudice amongst both the laity and professional men against the . stopping of such a discharge by treatment. This prejudice cannot be too strongly combated, as though in such chronic cases there are gene- rally present slight deafness and only occasionally pain, we can never be certain that complications arising from the constant otorrhcca, such as polypi, paralysis of the facial, ulceration, caries and its results, will not occur. Affections of the labyrinth.—The chief symptoms of this class of Affections of cases are great deafness, gradually or suddenly acquired, diagnosed by the patient’s inability to hear the vibrating fork when placed on the hones of the skull, vertigo, tinnitus, with possibly nausea, vomiting, and pain. The conditions causing such affections are believed to be hypermmiaof the labyrinth or haemorrhage into it, inflammation of the labyrinth, which is generally in children considered under the term of meningitis, and malignant affections. But affections of the internal ear are much more numerous as secondary affections resulting from au extension of disease of the middle ear, meningitis, fevers, tumours, aneurism, anaemia, hysteria, childbirth, or syphilis. With the latter, arising from hereditary syphilis, are generally seen the syphilitic physiognomy, and in all the cases which have yet come before me in which the acoustic was considerably impaired, changes in the choroid were invariably found if the media were sufficiently clear to allow of a view of the retina being obtained. The treatment, should syphilis he the cause, is not entirely hopeless, but if from other causes is almost nil. Strychnia, quinine, morphia, and local remedies have their dif- ferent advocates. Electricity may be tried, but a sufficient number of carefully recorded cases is still required before an opinion of its value can be given. Deaf-mutism.—By far the majority (above three fourths) of the Deaf-mutism. cases of deaf-mutism arise from congenital affections, the remainder resulting from fevers, teething, hydrocephalus, convulsions, &c. The hereditary influences are undoubted, and when such are present it is often seen combined with retinitis pigmentosa. The pathological con- ditions found in such are changes in the tympanic cavity with defects in the sound-conveying apparatus, abnormalities in the labyrinth or cerebrum, especially near the fourth ventricle. But the inner ear or cerebrum may have no perceptible changes sufficient to account for such a high degree of deafness as is present. The treatment is the careful cultivation of any remnant of hearing which may be present, and the placing of the child in an institution for the education of deaf mutes, where by the careful watching of the lips of the speaker they are able to follow him in conversation, and by a laborious teaching of the positions in which the organs of speech are to he placed in forming the different syllables, they are rendered capable of answering.