158 CICATKICES. Modes of performance. Example. The operation consists in the free division of the cicatrix and its subjacent tissues, the subsequent extension of the divided parts during the healing process, and the transplantation of different centres of “ cutification ” during the granulating stage, after the method of Reverdin. In dividing the cicatrix the incision may be directly across the scar, running into healthy tissue on either side, or in the form of a natural or inverted V, according to the line of induration, the V flap being dissected from the tissues beneath; or a number of small incisions may be made, subcutaneous or otherwise. But in all these divisions the surgeon must remember that the seat of the contracting cicatricial material is in the subcutaneous tissue as well as in the skin, and that unless it also is divided no permanent good can be expected. It is on this point, and indeed upon it alone, that a prognosis can be based. The most favorable cases for operation are those in which a web of tissue connects an extremity with the body, or the chin with the chest, for such a web contains within itself most of the cicatricial material upon which the deformity depends, and on its division the whole will be freed. Great care is needed, however, in the division of these webs, for they often contain important parts, such as nerves and vessels that have been displaced by the contracting process. Thus, in treating a case in which the right arm was fixed by a web from the axilla and elbow to the chest, the web seemed to be so cutaneous that I was half tempted to perforate with my knife and slit it up. Had I done so, in the position I had noted, I Eig. 43. should have passed my bis- tom’y, across thebrachial plexus, artery, and biceps muscle— these parts having been com- pletely drawn across to the thorax by the affection—and then been forced to ampu- tate the extremity. I did, however, what I should always advise others to do — divide the parts carefully and delibe- rately, and thus steered clear of any harm. I brought also a piece of healthy skin from the posterior part of the wound and fixed it to the anterior, about the lower border of the axilla, thus dividing the large exposed surface by a bar of healthy in- tegument, and kept the arm at a right line to the shoulder with a splint extending from the elbow to the hip. When ^ ^ , the wound had assumed a Effects of buin^on nedc, contraction of Wealthy aspect I inserted ten pieces of skin the size of hemp- seed, and after this, cicatrisation wen on with wonderful rapidity, the child recovering with a natural arm and movable cicatrix. In this