BUPTURE OP VISCERA. 602 Ruptured splecu. Subdiaphrag- miitic abscess. Ruptured stomach. Symptoms and result. Incomplete rupture of coats. Ruptured intestiue. B.xamples. say, its peritoneal eovering be uninjured, yet in such cases life can be prolonged, and, when the mischief is not extensive, may be saved. Fissures of the liver arc usually met with on its upper surface, and a diseased organ is more liable to rupture than a healthy one. The spleen is frequently inj ured, and such cases are by no means always fatal. Prep. 2018, Guy’s Museum, illustrates its repair after injury. This organ, too, is sometimes lacerated by a fractured rib, or torn by a dragging of its surface. When fatal, the result occurs from hajmorrhage. Subdiaphragmatic abscess may occur as a consequence of abdominal injury, and the surgeon should suspect its presence in all cases where recovery is slow and attended with abdominal pain. Rupture of the stomach generally proves fatal from shock alone, or irrecoverable collapse; the amount of distension of the organ, its con- tents, and the extent of laceration, influencing the result. Wien the rupture is large and effusion of its contents into the abdominal cavity takes place, acute peritonitis, with or without haemorrhage, will prove fatal, if the shock does not. Wlien the rupture is small, and the stomach empty, there is some chance of recovery, local peritonitis sub- sequently gluing the injured part to the surrounding tissues. Wlien death is not immediate, the patient will complain of an acute and constant pain radiating from the seat of injury, so peculiar indeed that “ the intensity of it absorbs the whole mind of the patient, who, within an hour from the enjoyment of perfect health, expresses his serious and decided conviction that if the pain be not speedily alle- viated he must die.” Vomiting is a constant symptom, first of the contents of the stomach, and often afterwards of blood; coUapse, rigors, and syncope are often met with. Incomplete rupture of the coats of the stomach is found sometimes after death, and, in Guy’s Museum (Prep. 1817^^) there is the stomach of a child set. 7, in which, from a sudden blow upon the distended viscus, the mucous membrane was detached and lacerated in a remarkable manner. Rupture of the intestines, both large and small, is a somewhat common form of abdominal injury, and may be produced by a fall, a blow, the passage of a wheel over the abdomen,or even violent muscular exertion. Hennen (‘ Military Surgery ’) gives a case where a soldier received a contusion of the abdomen, and sloughing of the integument followed with artificial anus, yet in six months the faeces resumed their natural course and a recovery took place. In Guy’s museum there is a specimen (Prep. 1851®®) of perforation of the small intestines of a man who had received a kick from a horse and died thirteen days after the accident with extensive peritonitis, from faecal effusion. Prep. 1851®® consists of a portion of jejunum, taken from a man who had been kicked in the abdomen, tlie injury being quickly followed by symptoms of ex- travasation and death in forty-eight hours; Prep. 1850®® was taken from a case of perforation of small intestine from the kick of a horse, termi- nating in death in twenty-four hours; No. 1851®® is a portion of jejunum in which are two openings through which the mucous membrane is inverted and resulting from a kick in the abdomen; No. 1851®* is an example of laceration of the jejunum in which the bowel is com- pletely divided. It was taken from a man set. 37, who had been run over by a cart, and lived twenty-four hours. Lastly, the specimen marked 1851®^ is from a case that occurred in the practice of my father.