160 diseases and cicatrices. Cancer may attack scars, Examples. Painful cicatrices. subcutaneous areolar tissue, and often going on to produce sucb a contraction of the part affected as to resemble the indurated cicatrix of a burn. Figs. 43, 44 represent the two affections. The cheloid tumour which follows the perforation of the ear for an ear-ring is a curious form, and seems less liable to return than others of a like nature; and from the deformity it causes it should be excised with a portion of the healthy lobule. Cancer may attack a scar, but when it does so the scars are generally old. Thus, I have treated a man who had a cancerous lip, the disease having developed in a scar he had had for fifty years. It began as a thickening of the scar, and then showed itself as a tubercle, which grew, broke down, and ulcerated, the ulceration rapidly spread- ing. Cancers in cicatrices mostly appear after this fashion, are usually epithelial, and are to be treated by the removal of the growth. Eig. 43. Fig. 44. (From models in Guy’s Museum.) Cheloid of Alibert. Cheloid of Addison. In December, 1871,1 was called upon to amputate above the knee in a man, mt. 58, a leg stump that was the seat of a frightful cancerous disease which had existed for two years, and had appeared in the cicatrix of an old amputation performed fifty-four years before for gangrene after fever (Fig- 25). Pninfnl cicatrices are often due to tbe divided ends of the nerves being bound in by the cicatricial tissue, and as often as not they are caused by a bound-down bulbous growth at the extremity of a nerve. In a case I had some years ago the external popliteal nerve, as it wound round the head of the fibula, was so bound down by the cicatrix of a burn as to cause severe agony in the whole course of its distribu- tion. The symptoms were relieved by two free verticalincisions tbroug the cicatrix, and the patient recovered. Should I ever see a similar case 1 shall pursue the same course, except that I shall subsequently transp pieces of skin in the wounds as soon as they assume a healthy appearance.