645 ABDOMINAL HEENIA. Femoral hernia occurs in the male about 4 in every 100, though it becomes, as in the female, relatively more common than inguinal as age advances. During the first ten years of life it is not met with more frequently than 1 in 300; whilst between the ages of 10 and 20, 2 per cent, are femoral; between 21 and 40, 4^ per cent.; between 41 and 60, 6 per cent.; and above 60, nearly 8 per cent. The average age of persons sufEering from strangulated inguinal Average age hernia is 43, hut from femoral 55. A hernia that becomes strangulated strangulated in its first descent is far more acute and fatal than that which has been of long standmg, and a femoral hernia is more liable to become so stran- gulated than an inguinal in the proportion of 3 to 1. These “ recent cases ” of femoral hernia mostly occur in old women about 60 years of age, and of ingumal in young men, the hernia being in the latter of the “ congenital kind.” Anatomy of a Hernia. Anatomy of a hernia. A hernial tumour, with few exceptions, is composed of a sac with its contents and the soft parts covering it. The sac is made up of peritoneum, is formed by the gradual stretching and pouching of this membrane through an opening in the abdominal parietes by the protruding viscera, and, being artificial, has been well named by Birkett the acquired hernial sac, this term dis- j^g^j’^j^sac tiuguishing it from a second form—equally well named—the congenital hernial sac, which is only found in inguinal hernia, being composed of the vaginal tubular process of peritoneum formed by the descent of hernial sue. the testicle—the opening that normally exists in foetal life not having closed owing to some deficiency in the obliterating process that naturally commences at the internal ring and proceeds downwards towards the testis in the scrotum. The formation of the hernia in the former case is a gradual, hut in the latter a rapid process, the “ acquired ” hernia being an affection of middle and old age, the “ congenital form ” one of infancy or young adult life. The sac also is composed of a body and a neck, which communicates by a mouth with the abdominal cavity. When the hernia is small, the neck and body appear as a small pouch, into and out of which the hernial contents pass with facility; the sac having no narrow neck by which the return of the intestine can be retarded But when the hernial sac is large, and has escaped into looser tissues, its body or fundus so expands as to render by comparison the neck of the sac a narrow canal or orifice, the return of the hernial contents often becomes one of difficulty, and under those circumstances it frequently becomes strangulated. The neck of the sac also undergoes changes which it is essential to Changes in understand, particularly in cases of scrotal hernia, where the peritoneum th® neck of is so forced outwards through the inguinal ring as to fall into puckered s^c. folds. These folds will disappear, however, if the hernia and sac be reduced into the abdominal cavity or the constricting ring of tissue external to it be divided, the degree of unfolding of the neck of the sac being regulated by the amount of expansion of which it is capable. But should the sac be neither returned nor its constricting ring of outside tissue divided, the puckered folds of peritoneum will adhere,