DISEASES OF ACCOMMODATION. 304 Meclianism of accommo- dation. Range of accommo- dation. Paralysis of accommo- dation. Spasm of accommo- dation. of its suspensory ligament so long as the eye is adjusted for a distant object; that upon accommodation for a near one the ligament is re- laxed by contraction of the muscle, and the curvature of the lens (more especially that of its anterior surface) increased by virtue of its own elasticity. The other theory is that the ciliary muscle compresses the lens in some manner, and so alters its curvature. Bange of Accommodation. We speak of the range of accommodation, and by it we mean the power of a lens, which we suppose the crystalline adds to itself when we change our look from the farthest to the nearest point of distinct vision. Thus, an eye which sees clearly at infinite distance, when its accommodation is relaxed, and at 16 centimetres with greatest tension of accommodation, has a range or “amplitude” of accommodation equal to a lens of = 6 D about. Accommodation is accompanied by convergence of the optic axes from the action of the internal recti muscles and by contraction of the pupil. Diseases of Accommodation. Paralysis of accommodation is met with in cases of paralysis of the third nerve, accompanied by ptosis, divergent strabismus, and more or less dilatation of the pupil; it may be caused by injuries, as blows on the eyeball itself or in its vicinity; sometimes it is met with without apparent cause, not unfrequently in persons recovering from diphthe- ria, or from any exhausting disease, and accompanied by no paralysis of the external ocular muscles; it can always be produced artificially by the use of atropine. Symptoms.—Dilatation of the pupil, general mistiness of vision, and inability to see near objects plainly, the last condition being capable of correction by the use of a convex lens. Treatment.—This depends on the cause; if the paralysis of accom- modation be associated with paralysis of other branches of the third nerve, the treatment must be directed against any existing constitu- tional condition—syphilis, rheumatism, &c.—most improvement being brought about by the use of iodide of potassium in increasing doses, alone or in conjunction with bichloride of mercury. If dependent on injury, the eye should be kept bound up, and infiammatory symptoms treated as they arise. If arising idiopathically, without apparent cause. Calabar bean ’ should be used two or three times a week, in order to stimulate the ciliary muscle to contract, and attention paid to the general health. In any case a convex lens may be used if required. Spasm of accommodation is met with in some cases of hyperme- tropia, and occasionally in myopia; it often masks a considerable amount of hypermetropia, and may at times even make the eye appear to be myopic. If it exists with myopia, the degree of short sight is increased. Symptoms.—Severe and constant pain in the eyeballs and forehead, increased on any attempt to use the eyes, and associated with some anomaly of refraction (generally hypermetropia), inability to see near or distant objects distinctly, these symptoms being modified or entirely removed by the use of atropine. 1 The Calabar gelatine was the most convenient form for application, but recently a solution gr. iv to 5j of sulphate of esserine (au alkaloid obtained from Calabar bean) has been employed with the best results.