LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 486 Ligature of the common iliac. Cramptou’s operation. Ligature of the internal iliac. which then conies into view should he drawn inwards and the parts held well aside by hooked retractors. With the fingers, the transver- salis fascia should be torn through from Pouparfs ligament, the peri- toneum raised upwards, and the sheath of the vessel exposed, the vein being to the inner side of the artery. Ey means of a director and for- ceps, the sheath can readily be opened and a ligature passed, the needle being introduced between the vein and artery. To divide the trans- versalis fascia, the whole length of the wound, is an unnecessary and dangerous proceeding j hut to deal with it as suggested above is an extra protection to the peritoneum, and in no way renders the operation more difficult; indeed, I have been led to believe, that it facilitates the operation. It certainly does this on the dead subject, and in the six cases in which I have been called upon to perform it on the living this opinion was confirmed. The genito-crural nerve, which lies upon the vessel, should not be included in the ligature. The operation, however, is only applicable for tumours situated below Pouparfs ligament; for others, Abernethy’s operation, or that suggested for the common iliac, should be selected. Ligature of the common iliac artery has been performed about thirty-niue times, and only ten times with success. It was first success- fully performed by Mott, of New York, in 1827. I have seen it done but once, and then by my colleague Mr. Cock in 1863, on a man set. 27, and also with success. To expose the vessel, the incision must be loug, its length being determined by the size of the aneurism and depth of the artery. A curved incision commencing outside the internal ring and passing upwards and outwards as for the external iliac artery, appears to be the best, the muscles being divided to an equal extent. The transver- salis fascia must be laid open or torn through and the peritoneum turned upwards. It is at this part of the operation that the greatest difficul- ties arise, for as soon as the transversalis fascia is divided, the peritoneum covering the intestine bulges into the wound. This membrane also is frequently found adhering to the aneurismal sac, and much difficulty is felt in separating it. This was markedly so in Mr. Cock’s case. The oozing of blood into the wound also masks the vessel. The depth of the wound, likewise, renders the application of the ligature a matter of great difficulty. Nevertheless, these difficulties can be overcome by care and good aids. The operation is similar to that last described, though more difficult. In 1846, Mr. Stanley ligatured the common iliac artery by an operation suggested by Sir P. Crampton, and de- scribed by Skey.—The patient was placed upon his side, and an incision made from the end of the last rib downwards and forwards in front of the iliac crest, the transversalis fascia was divided, and the peritoneum rolled up. The common iliac artery was then found and tied with ap- parent facility. On the dead body, this operation is far from difficult, , and promises to be of service to the living when the aneurismal tumour is large and high up. Indeed, it is probably the better operation of the two given. The abdominal aorta too, could be ligatured by the same means. (Fig-148, page 471.) Ligature of the internal iliac.—Stevens, of Vera Cruz, in 1812, was the first to perform this operation iu a case of gluteal aneurism, occurring in a negress, and the operation proved successful. Since his time, the operation has been repeated eleven times, and in six