STRABISMUS. Fatty tumour. Nmvus. Cancerous ulcers. Cysts. Cysticercus. j ' Strabismus. Causes. Varieties. Oou uncomfortable. Pinguicula can be removed, if desired, by making an incision over it, turning back the conjunctiva, then seizing the little growth -with forceps, and dissecting it away from the parts beneath. The growth having been removed, the conjunctiva should be closed over the wound by a suture, and the eye kept bandaged for two or three days after the operation. Lipoma is met with as a tumour projecting beneath the upper lid, near the fornix, and often between the superior and external recti muscles; it somewhat resembles a third lid. If the tumour gives any trouble it must be removed by operation, thus :—The patient lying on the couch, the lids should be kept as widely open as possible by a wire speculum, an incision made with a cataract knife through the conjunc- tiva over the tumour, and its most projecting portion seized with toothed forceps and removed with scissors; care must be taken not to drag upon the growth, as it is continuous with the fat in the cavity of the orbit, a great portion of which might be pulled out. As much of the tumour as is thought necessary having been removed, the conjunc- tiva should be closed over it with sutures, and the eye bound up. Nsevus occasionally occui-s in the conjunctiva; it may be removed by the knife, or destroyed by the galvanic cautery, in the latter case due precautions must be taken to guard the eyeball from injury during the operation, and to prevent as much as possible the evils arising from subsequent cicatrisation. Cancerous ulcers may also be met with; they must be thoroughly extirpated, the eyeball being excised, if necessary. Cysts containing a clear serous fluid are occasionally met with in the conjunctiva; they must be punctured, when they at once subside, but sometimes re-form, in which case a portion of the cyst-wall must be excised, or a flue seton passed through it. Cysticercus also occurs, and should be treated by incision of the cyst. EXTEENAL MUSCLES OF THE EYEBALL. Strabismus (squint).—“ Strabismus is a deviation in direction of the .axes of the two eyeballs, in consequence of which the two yellow spots receive images from different objects. In convergent strabis- mus the two visual lines do not cross each other at the point it is desired to observe; only one of the twm, that of the undeviatiiig eye, reaches it. Under this deviation not only does the expression of the face suffer from want of symmetry in its most eloquent parts, but the power of vision, at least in one of the eyes, is usually disturbed, and the squinter always loses the advantage of binocular vision.” (Bonders.) Strabismus must not be looked upon as a special form of disease; it is in by far the greater number of cases associated with some anomaly of refraction, which, being the primary cause of the deviation, gives rise to the strabismus; other conditions which msiy induce stra- bismus will be subsequently considered. Two forms of squint are commonly met with. 1. Convergent. 2. Divergent. Other rare forms are superior and inferior strabismus ; these will receive no further notice. Convergent strabismus is the most common of all, and is almost always the result of hypermetropia. Divergent strabismus is usually the result of myopia.