CONTUSION OF THE BONES OP THE SKULL, 200 Mode of upplication of sutures. Their removal. Diffused suppuration beneatli aponeurosis. Treatment. Prognosis. Coustitu- tiuual treatment. Haimorrhage and its treatment. application of the suture, hov/ever, care must be taken not to include the aponeurosis of tbe occipito-frontalis muscle, for there is more danger of setting up mischief in the cellular tissue heneath this tendon, when this practice is adopted, than when the sutures simply pass through the skin itself. The kind of suture is unimportant, although many surgeons prefer the metallic. All sutures should he removed on the second day, as wounds of the scalp heal rapidly. When the pericranium is torn off and the bone exposed, no differ- ence in practice is needed, the prospects of a satisfactory recovery under these circumstances being as good as in a less complicated case. When the bone, however, has been much injured superficial necrosis may follow. Should diffused suppuration occur in the cellular tissue heneath tbe aponeurosis, the sooner a free escape is given to the matter the better, as such cases are always attended with great danger to the periosteum, to the bone, and even to the life of the patient. To attain this end the edges of the wound should be separated in parts, or limited incisions made through the tissues to the hone. By adopting this practice early, the extension of the inflammation will often be checked, and the extent of sloughing of the cellular tissue limited. Warm fomentations and water dressings should always be applied. When extensive sloughing takes place, there is no reason why a good recovery should not follow, if the powers of a patient are good and the kidneys sound. The powers of a patient must be kept up by tonic medicines, such as iron or quinine, generous diet allowed, and stimulants employed when needed. Sedatives to procure sleep are also essential. When bleeding is troublesome, the arteries should be twisted, acu- pressed, or ligatured; when it occui’s merely as a general oozing of blood, pressure may be applied either to the wound or to the trunks of the supplying vessels. In rare cases where the deep vessels of the tem- poral fossa are wounded and bleeding cannot be arrested, the question of applying a ligature to tbe external or common carotid may have to be entertained" It has never fallen to my lot, however, to witness such a case. Contusion of the bones of the skull Contusion of is, doubtless, a common consequence of scalp injuries both with bone. and without a wound; so too is scratching or abrasion of the bones frequently combined with a laceration of the scalp. In the majority of such cases a good recovery takes place, it being the exception that a difl’erent result is met with and that acute inflamma- tion of the bone with all its dangers, or chronic inflammation with all its difficulties follows. Acute and Acute inflammation of the hone is a severe affection, more particu- clironic iu- when the diploe is involved j for tbe diseased action may extend of bonf inwards, giving rise to a local suppuration between the bone and the dura the results of mater, or it may involve the arachnoid, and occasion a diflused inflam- coutusioii. mation of this membrane and the brain itself. A chronic inflammation of the hone may be followed by very similar results, or, by a thickening of the injured bone. During the progress of necrosis of the skull, these results are always