ON PARASITES. 183 silk ligature when it came away being capable of admitting a No. 12 catheter. The vessel seemed to be nearly the diameter of my finger and was very thick. In a more recent case, however, gangrene of the foot, followed by death, took place. When this operation is performed the vessel should he ligatured well above the disease. I may add that Butcher in 1863 and Alcock in 1866 bad successful cases; though Fayrer, late of Calcutta, and Buchanan, of Glasgow, have not met with successful results. When surgical interference of this kind is not applicable, elevation Pressure, of the affected limb or pressure should be employed. In severe cases amputation may be called for. ON PARASITES. Guinea-worm.—Dracunculus ov Filaria medinensis, is one of the Guinea- most troublesome parasites known in Africa, Asia, India, and tropical worm. America. In Europe it is only occasionally met with in those who have visited the above districts. The mature worm varies in length from two to six feet. It is cylin- drical in form, white in colour, has a smooth surface, is tough and elastic; its mouth appearing as a circular orifice; and has no anus. How it enters the body is unknown, although it is evident that it does so from without, and probably through the skin of some part that has been in contact with water, inasmuch as it is more common in the feet than in other paids of the body, although the Madras water- carriers are said to have them in the hack. At any rate, the worm gets into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where it remains. Busk tells us that it does so usually for about twelve months, although it may he eighteen; when mature and the time has come for the discharge of the embryos with which it is filled, it makes its presence known bj’ boring the skin, protruding its head under the cuticle, raising a bleb, and coming out bodily, discharging its young filarim externally. The first manifestation of the disease is usually a circular bleb, as Early syiuptoma. Fro. 59. Guinea-worm Ijleb just cut off. Dr. Druilt, ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’Jaii. 3, 1874. represented in Fig. 59, although it often happens that pain and stiff- ness of the affected part has been complained of for some time