CONVERGENT STRABISMUS. 355 in position, the scissors passed through the opening, one blade following the hook between the tendon and the eyeball, the other being kept I outside the tendon, which is thus included between the two blades, and I the tendon should then he divided by one or two sharp strokes with Division of ., . the tendon. I the scissors. The scissors may now he withdrawn, and the hook pulled forwards; ■ if the latter meets with no resistance, but passes freely up to the corneal , margin, the operation has been successfully performed; to make sure ’ of this, how'ever, the hook should be tvithdrawn, the action for hook- [ ing the tendon repeated, and any fibres that may have escaped division ;i cut through. j On the division of the tendon the muscle retracts, the retraction being Connection limited by the subconjunctival fascia with which it is intimately con- nected. If the eye is not properly directed after simple division of f„Bcia. the tendon, a greater effect may be produced by further freely severing the subconjunctival fascia. 2. In the second operation, the position of the patient and surgeon should be the same, and the lids be kept open with the wire speculum, as in the one already described. An incision should he made with scissors through conjunctiva and subconjunctival fascia, over the insertion of the tendon, instead of below its inferior margin; the tendon then picked up with the stra- j bismus hook, and divided close to the sclerotic. The wound in the ij conjunctiva should be afterwards closed with a fine suture. \ No after-treatment is required for sti-abismus operations; the patient I may go about as usual and simply keep the eyes clean. But if, wdien the i eyes have quite recovered from the effects of the operation, there should •t| be any return of the squint manifested, the degree of hypermetropia t( must be carefully ascertained, and glasses which thoroughly neutralize >1 it ordered to be used for all purposes. In most cases this will be found ■j) sufilcient; but if after the glasses have been perseveringly worn for 4 some weeks no effect is produced the operation should be repeated in jj one or both eyes. 4 Use of ansBsthetics in operations for convergent strabismus. Use of s'! Whether anajsthetics should be employed or not in squint operations ausesthetics. ■•9 appears to be a matter of opinion; some eminent oculists never employ- l ing them, others again rarely operating without. For my own part, I i prefer not to employ an anaesthetic if the patient is pretty steady, but I with children and nervous adults I always use one, taking care, how- , ever, that a full effect is not produced, and if there is any doubt as to whether one or both eyes are to be operated on I allow the patient to ! come nearly to after finishing one eye, so as to ascertain the effect 3 produced by what has been done; if an anmsthetic is given to such an i: extent as to exert its fullest influence, and produce thorough muscular ;; relaxation, an erroneous idea of the effect of the operation is likely to I be formed, and on the return of consciousness the squint may remain II \a bad as ever. Other conditions than hypermetropia which may produce convergent Other condi- itrabismus are— tions causing 1. Disease of the brain. convergent 2. Paralysis of the external rectus mnscle. strabismus. 3. Inflammatory or other changes in the internal rectus muscle tself, producing shortening. 1