665 HERNIOTOMY. thus reached the neck, the knife may he carefully turned npwards and the tissues divided, the point of the finger measuring the extent of the incision. When a herniotome such as that figured (Fig. 277), is used, no director need be employed. When the intestines are adherent to the sac or to one another Wlien by filamentous or soft adhesions, these may be divided, though such intestine are only met with in recent hernia. The fibrous adhesions of old ® ‘ herniffi had better be left alone, and the hernia considered as irreducible, the surgeon being satisfied, under these circumstances, with dividing the stricture, and thereby relieving the strangulation, but not attempt- ing its reduction. If a fresh piece of bowel comes down, this should be reduced, but the old hernia ought to be left. The strangulated intestine, under all circumstances, should be handled Care in with extreme delicacy. Any drawing doton of its neck to examine its handling condition should be avoided, since such an act can do no good, but often does much harm, in tearing away adhesions that would have sealed an ulcerated orifice, prevented extravasation, and assisted repair. Any intro- Avoid useless : duction of the finger into the abdominal cavity is also to be condemned, exploration, save under exceptional conditions. With the careful return of the bowel to the neck of the sac, surgical interference ought to cease. The ; surgeon may satisfy himself that such an end has been obtained without I probing the abdominal cavity with his finger, and thus risking life by : tearing away adhesions, and undoing in a moment what nature by her I own processes had probably being attempting from the first period of strangulation, to shut out from the general abdominal cavity what might prove injurious and dangerous to life. When the hoioel is dead, as indicated by its flaccidity and ashy colour, Wlicn bowel i all thought of its reduction must be abandoned. The soft parts cover- dead. I ing in the sac with the sac itself, should be freely laid open, so as to |l expose the vvhole sloughing mass, and the intestine left to nature, to pass ' into what is called an “ artificial anus.” The neck of the sac may, how- lever, be carefully divided, not, however, with the view of relieving the strangulation, for the gut having become gangrenous, no strangulation exists, but with a view of allowing the intestinal contents to escape when an external opening takes place, and should life he spared, for I the subsequent retraction of the bowel towards the abdominal cavity, I to effect a natural cure. I I No free incision into the gangrenous bowel, no stitching of the in- Free uestine to the margin of the wound, is required, as fseces will soon find uicision. cheir way through the opening that has been made by the artificial inus, and the surgeon may be certain that within the abdomen, suf- ficient repair has gone on to fix the intestine that had been strangu- ated to the neck of the sac, and thus prevent its immediate retraction j |for it must be remembered, that as time goes on, this retracting process s precisely that which nature adopts to procure a spontaneous cure of m artificial anus. When the bowel is perforated by ulceration or ruptured, and the WTien bowel ■pening is not large, the neck of the sac must be incised as in an perforated or rdinary case, and the intestine that appears reparable replaced, the “*®®xated. ; erforated or ruptured portion being left at the mouth of the sac. 1 Vhen the rupture or perforation is small, there is no objection to ae surgeon placing a ligature round the wound and replacing the