SHOCK AND COLLAPSE. 252 Treatment. Venesection Transfusion. Posture. External warmth. Stimulants. Food. Remedies for excessive reaction. trivial. Surgeons see this at times in the sinking after small opera- tions. Thus, I lost some years ago, after the removal of a fatty tumour, a woman of middle age, simply from asthenia ; the operation having been unattended by any loss of blood; also a child, set. 8, after some operation on a cicatrix of the neck, in the same way. In both, had kidneys were found after death. The idiosyncrasy of the individual has also a powerful influence on “ shock.” Treatment.—Shock or collapse uncomplicated with haemorrhage may be treated in one way; shock or collapse, the consequence of, or combined with haemorrhage, in another. In both cases the heart’s action must he either excited or main- tained; “the heart must beat, and the patient must breathe,” or life will fail. Even in the worst cases, as long as any signs of life exist, the respiratory process may be aided by artificial respiration, and the warmth of the body kept up by external applications. Savory, in an able article (‘ Holmes’s System,’ Ed. 2, vol. i), advises as the result of experiment and reasoning that, should no evidence of the heart’s action he detected, and no haemorrhage complicate the case, a vein should be opened—as the external jugular—in order that the over distended heart may resume its action as soon as it is relieved from its paralysis by distension. In the extreme collapse following haemorrhage transfusion is also “ a fair and rational expedient.” In less severe examples the surgeon’s object should be to keep the patient alive, hut he ought not to try to do more; as to force nature is always injurious, and sometimes fatal. The failing powers of a feeble subject may he excited to act only to give way again, they may not a second time respond to the former stimulant. A too rapid reaction may so stimulate the heart as to set up a fatal hmmorrhage, when, by the collapse, the wounded artery might have become sealed by nature’s own blood-clot. lu all cases of shock and collapse, therefore, complicated with local injury, great judgment is called for. To do enough to maintain life is essential, but to do more is injurious. The horizontal position under all circumstances should be observed, and external warmth secured by means of blankets, and hot flannels applied to the pit of the stomach. Sir J. Simpson’s plan of applying heat to the body is very beneficial, by filling six or eight soda-water bottles with boiling water and tightly corking them, and then drawing over each a woollen stocking wrung out of hot water. The bottles so covered, were then packed around the patient in bed. Stimulants in care- fully adjusted quantities may be given,and brandy is the best. This should be given in small quantities, and if the heart’s action fail to respond to its administration after two ounces or so have been swallowed, more is of little service, the stomach usually rejecting it. When the stomach rejects brandy, or the patient cannot swallow, an enema of brandy in warm starch, milk, or gruel, sometimes acts very rapidly. As soon as the heart’s action is established, liquid food, such as warm milk, may he given, though only in small quantities, aud the case should be carefully watched; food and stimulants should be given with discretion and as the symptoms indicate, the greater the loss of blood the greater being the necessity for food. Excess of reaction is to be checked by soothing remedies, opium in