669 DISPLACED HERNIA. In the first the strangulated hernia with its sac may be bodily First form, reduced within the abdominal ring and behind the abdominal parietes, but it is only to a femoral hernia that this accident can occur. It is the true “ reduction en bloc,” or “ en masse,” of the French writers Reduction and of Luke. Such cases are, however, rare. In November, 1871, 1 ‘nmasse. had this fact demonstrated to me in a case I was called to see by Mr. Berry of Pentonville. It was in a lady, set 64, who was said to have Example of. been ruptured for years, and had worn a truss. When I saw her she had been vomiting for a week, and a tense femoral hernia existed. Under chloroform, I cut down upon the sac and divided the neck of the crural ring, and on attempting reduction of the sac’s contents by gentle manipulation, to my surprise the sac with its contents suddenly disap- peared into the abdomen. By a little abdominal pressure it was made to reappear, and it did so in the same sudden way. A second attempt at the taxis was followed by the same result, and renewed pressure upon the abdomen with a like reappearance. For the sake of fully satisfying myself and my medical friends of the nature of the case, I reduced the hernia en masse a third time, and then found some little difficulty in securing its reappearance. When I did so, I took hold of the sac with my forceps, carefully opened it, and exposed the bowel without letting the sac go; I then divided its neck by a herniotome and reduced the bowel, keeping the sac well down. On the second day, the bowels acted, but the patient subsequently died of a low form of peritonitis. In this case the whole process of reduction en masse was demonstrated most clearly, and it compelled me to ask the question whether the same result might not have taken place had 1 attempted its reduction by forcible taxis without operation, since the facility with which the sac passed up within the crural ring was something startling. In Prep. 2503^®, Guy’s Hosp. Museum, this accident may be seen. It was taken from a woman ajt 58; and my friend Mr. Henry Morris showed a specimen illustrating this fact at the Pathological Society. Vide ‘ Trans.’ for 1871. In the second form the neck of the sac becomes detached by force Second form, from the internal abdominal ring, and pushed upwards beneath the Displaced abdominal walls, the intestine within the sac being strangulated by the orifice of the sac. This variety is illustrated by diagram 266, and still better in Figs. 279 and 279a, which I have copied from page 486 of the first vol. of the ‘ Medical Gazette,’ published in 1828. 'The case formed Sir C. Bell’s the subject of a lecture by Sir Charles, then Mr. Bell. It occurred in a man, set. 47, who had been the subject of a right scrotal hernia for twenty years, whieh had come down and become strangulated three days before, but had been reduced, or rather made to disappear. The symptoms, however, continued, and death followed. During the last twenty-four hours of the patient’s life the hernia came down repeatedly during the day, and was each time reduced with great facility. After death the hernia was found to be in the scrotum, strangulated and mortified (Fig. 279). On applying pressure to it “the intestine could very easily and effectually be pushed through the external abdo- minal ring, so as to be hid from sight. On looking to the inside, how- ever, it was seen that the portion of gut had carried the neck of the sac before it into the abdominal cavity B, Fig. 279; and the duplicature of peritoneum which hung upon the inside of the neck of the sac being unfolded, had formed a new sac for the intestine in the inside of the