446 TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. powder. To allay pain, opiates, or hypnotics, as chloral in full doses, | may be given, and in some cases even chloroform may be used and its i influence kept up for several hours, to allow of complete compression being maintained. Dr. Mapother did this for twelve hours. There On complete seems little doubt that in a general way, complete obstruction to the and circulation is more likely to be followed by a rapid cure than is incom- obs'tructlon next to completely stopping the flow of blood till the of the artery, aneurism has consolidated, the application of the intermittent com- plete compressing force is to be advocated, or, in other words, complete compression may be maintained for a certain time, and then given up to be returned to as soon as the condition of the patient will permit., The total suppression of the circulation is doubtless the most rapid plan of curing an aneurism; but the partial suppression is likewise successful although slower. On all these points, however, I should like the Dublin surgeons to speak. Dr. Rawdon Macnamara has done so in an able paper (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 19, 1871), from which the following extract has been taken. It epitomises the whole: Miicuamara case of popliteal aneurism presents itself for treatment. We on the determine to use compression. We first carefully ascertain the condition partial of patient’s general health. If anaemic or hypersemic, we take of'the^***°" appropriate measures; and, when we are satisfied upon this point, we ap- ■ circulation, ply some one or other of the most improved compressors—those in which i the compressing power is modified elasticity. With this we compress ‘ the artery in the upper portion of its course, having previously ar- • ranged, some three or four inches lower down, the auxiliary instrument by means of which we propose to alternate the pressttre. The upper instrument is now made to control the artery, so as but just to arrest the pulsation in the sac. This is the most delicate step in all the pro- • cedure, and is regulated by the hand of an intelligent assistant, who at once informs us when the pulsation is arrested; and then aud there the further application of pressure is arrested. A roster of intelligent students is now organized, and to them is entrusted the management of the case. Two are appointed to take charge of the patient for one hour, when they are relieved by two others, and so on during the day, whereby we secure unwearied attention during the period that pressure is kept up; and, as in Dublin we visit our hospital at nine o’clock a.m. the treatment generally commences about that hour, and is continued up to nine o’clock p.m., when all pressure is removed, and the patient is encouraged to take his night’s rest undisturbed. Next morning the treatment is resumed, and so on until the cure is perfected. At the commencement of the case, we take the patient into our confidence; explain to him the nature of his case and the method we are about to adopt for his cure, placing clearly before him the alternative, with all its possible dangers, which we should have to adopt in case compression should fail. The value of this procedure is very frequently demon- strated by the intelligent interest exhibited by our patients in the I management of their own cases, so intelligent as in protracted cases | ■ to supplement, if not altogether to supersede, the supervision of them ' ' by our students. In the selection of our compressing force, we adopt in its widest sense the maxim ‘Nullius addictus jurare in verba j magistri.' Should one compressor prove irksome, we try another; if all should fail, we have recourse to digital compression, or to compres-