I CANCEROUS TUMOURS; 117 i ll 9 il t [ « a '< H b i i) u H a i ». 1] I ii I d cases in which recurrence ceased for at least seven years after a fourth and a sixth operation ; and after each operation the patient may expect to enjoy a period of comfort. Dr. Esmarch, of Kiel, stated to Sir J. Paget that he had seen cases of recurrent fibroid tumour cured, and not again returning, in patients who took large doses of iodide of potassium for several weeks. Generally, however, the prognosis of recurrent tu- PrognoBis- moursmust be unfavorable unless Dr. Esmarch’s plan often proves cura- tive. The ordinary course is that the tumours constantly recurring grow more rapidly, leave shorter intervals of health, protrude sooner, bleed and discharge ichor more freely, and affect deeper and deeper structures, till excision becomes too dangerous, and the patient dies exhausted.” (‘ Holmes,’ vol. i, ed. 2.) HI. Cancerous tumours. What is a cancerous tumour ? Of what is it composed ? aud How On cancerous can it be recognised ? are questions which the student is constantly asking, and few are more difficult to answer with accuracy or preci- sion. Pathologically, a cancerous tumour is not composed of any definite Pathological or characteristic elements, such as at once stamp it as being a cancer. ®°a<lition. It does not contain any distinct cancer cells which mark its nature, as the cells, nuclei, aud fibres, which enter into the formation of a cancer may all he traced in other and in innocent morbid growths. “ But neither in tumours of innocent character, nor in natural tissue, do these elements combine in such variety as is common in a single cancer” (Moore). It does not appear, however, to he incorrect to assert, that the more the cell elements predominate in a growth, aud the more they approach an epithelial type, the greater is the proba- bility of its being malignant, and therefore cancerous; for the soft cancers^ which are undoubtedly the most virulent, are made up almost entirely of cells aud nuclei—only enough fibre tissue existing to bind and hold these cells together. It has been already shown bow the so-called innocent tumour ap- Affinity of roaches the malignant in some of its features; and it must have been Hie recurrent observed that these which form the intermediate links between the nuclMted innocent and malignant, structurally approach the latter, in having tumours, more of the cell elements in their composition. The fibro-nucleated and recurrent tumours exist as proofs of this. But these points touch only the anatomy and not the symptoms of those growths; they do not assist the surgeon to ascertain before its removal whether the tumour be a cancer or not. What, then, are the external and general symptoms by which this Symptoms, point can be determined ? And here it must be premised that in making a diagnosis, the history and progress of the disease is at least as impor- tant as the physical characters of the tumour. If a tumour be found in a part, infiltrating the tissues with which Infiltration it is in contact, there can be little if any doubt as to its being a cancer, evidence, for no innocent growth infiltrates tissues—it only separates them. This question of infiltration of a part, or the mere separation of it, is most important, and is, doubtless, one of the most valuable means we possess for the purpose of a correct diagnosis (Fig. 402). A cancerous tumour, however, does not always infiltrate a part. Cancer may although an infiltrating tumour is almost always a cancerous one • for ’ mfiltralc. I I II I I t i