145 CONTUSIONS. clean the wound by the removal of all foreign material is the next, which is to be done by the fingers and forceps of the surgeon, and a stream of water over the part, aided by cotton wool, clean sponge, or tow. The less manipulation the surface of the wound is subjected to the better. Where primary union is wanted, the cut surfaces and edges of the tvounds are to he brought into apposition by means of sutures aud pro- bably by strapping, and when the wound is a deep one these objects are materially assisted by the lateral application of pads and the pressure of a bandage. Indeed, in the treatment of all large wounds, whether the result of accident or operation, in which primary' union is desired, the benefit of a little firm pressure over the part is very advantageous; Valae of loca in some cases a pad of lint is the best material to use, in others cotton Pfessure. wool, while the whole should be bound together by some good strapping or a bandage. Where the edges of a wound can be brought together without sutures or strapping, a pad of dry lint fixed over the part by a bandage is an efficient dressing. Small and superficial wounds may be brought together by strapping, sutures being only employed when the length of wound is very extensive, or where there is too much gaping, or, as on the face, where strapping cannot be accurately applied. In superficial wounds the flexible collodion of the British Pharmaco- poeia may be used, the edges of the wound being held in apposition whilst it sets. Two or three coatings must be applied. In wounds where sutures are not required, and the edges can be brought together, lint saturated with the compound tincture of benzoin is the best application. Sutures in superficial wounds may be inserted superficially, but in deep On sutures, wounds must be put in deeply. To adapt the skin surfaces of a deep wound without procuring apposition in the deeper parts is bad practice, and, where union takes place, it produces harm, by holding in the secre- tions. Sutures should only in exceptional cases pass through muscles. Sutures.—There are four principal kinds of sutures; the interrupted, uninterrupted, tioisted, and quilled. The interrupted suture is that usually employed in ordinary wonnds. Interrupted It can be made with a curved or straight needle, according to con- suture, venience, armed with a single thread of well-waxed silk—the fine silk line sold by tacklemakers being the best. The needle is then introduced through one side of the wound from without, in- wards, obliquely through the tis- sues, and made to pass through the opposite side in the same direction from within, outwards. The edges of the wound should then be carefully drawn together, and the two ends of the suture fastened in a double-reef knot. A granny (Fig. 120) is by no means a bad knot to make, as it is a slip knot, and may be tightened at pleasure, a third knot securing the whole. The knot of the suture Fig. 8i. The interrupted suture.