98 TUMOURS. Virchow’s views continued. On con- tagiousness of tumours. Tumours regarded in tlieir clinical aspect. Definition. of infection. A dry tumour of the epidermoid kind is by far less dangerous than a moist one; a soft cancer is much more to be dreaded than a hard one. “ The more a tumour is poor in vessels the less it will extend its infecting action beyond the neighbouring parts; but the more it is rich in blood-vessels and lymphatics, the more it is traversed by the blood and lymph j the more the parenchymatous juices are in contact with the blood so much the more is the infection likely to become general. “ I give thus an interpretation of facts, but it is in accord with observation. The degree of contagiousness of tumours increases in proportion as they become more rich in vessels, and that alongside the vessels they contain an abundance of liquid materials. Every soft succulent tumour is suspicious, and that just in proportion as it con- tains many vessels and cells. The more the juice is intercellular and" in contact with the vascular stroma of connective tissue, the more the malignant properties which are manifested by an ever new excitation I to the progressive production of the tumour. J “ I ought, indeed, to speak more at length as to the nature of these jl juices, but in truth I do not know what to say upon the subject. The results which chemists have arrived at on this subject have no kind of value. Here the field is open to inquiring and progressive spirits; and? I hope that hereafter researches will be undertaken in this direction, and that they may be crowned with success.” But as this is not a work on pathology, I cannot allow myself to.. enter further into these speculations, and must refer the reader toy Virchow’s masterly work on‘Cellular Pathology and on Tumom’s’ forf a fuller elucidation of the subject. In the sequel I shall regard tumours in their clinical aspect alone, giving their anatomical characters only so far as they illustral the practical aspects of the subject. All speculative pathologicailj doctrines will be set aside, as tending to confuse rather than to elucidate clinical phenomena, until the day when pathological science shall have so far advanced as to allow of an auatomicai! classification of tumours being made that will fully dovetail in vutlii that founded on clinical observation. The microscopical anatomy ov tumours has been furnished by the pen of my friend and coUeagUQ( Dr. Moxon. I propose to lay down here some few pathological points which haw| an important clinical bearing, and which tend to illustrate the subject of the diagnosis of tumours. A tumour may he defined to he a neio groioth, cystic or solid, infir trating, separate from, or continuous with, normal tissues. It is a addition to, not an increase of, natural parts, for such is an hypet trophy; and it manifests its independent existence hy its dispositic to grow irrespective of the part in zohich it is placed. All tumour with the exception of the hydatid, are made up of one or mors of t'r natural elementary tissues of the body, in a rudimental or morhi]^ state, and in no single example has any extraneous or new eleme* ever been detected. For just as the natural body is built up of ce!. and fibres in one or other of their different forms, so tumours a made up of like elements, although it may be of unequal proportioi i Tumours, like the natural tissues, differ therefore, anatomical.] according to the nature of the elementary structure of which they a.J