259 SPINA BIFIDA, hernial sac. The move pedunculated the tumour, the better the prognosis, so long as no complication exists that threatens life. Teeatment.—Palliative treatment is all that can be adopted in Treatment, the majority, although in exceptional instances operative interference promises to be of service. The tumour must always be guarded Palliative, from injury by some soft protective material, such as cotton wool or spongio-piline. Slight pressure sufficient to prevent rapid increase of the tumour is also beneficial, and the best method of applying it is, by a casing of gutta percba or felt, moulded to the part. The appli- cation of collodion is sometimes useful. Successful cases are recorded in which tapping of the hernia has Tapping, been performed. The practice, however, is dangerous, as the drawing off of the fluid has been followed by convulsions and even death. Never- theless, it is the least formidable form of practice that can be under- taken, and should always be employed before more active treatment is resorted to, if only as a preliminary measure. The puncture should always be made at the side of the tumour, for the cord when present is probably placed in the median line. The whole of the fluid should Not to draw never be drawn off. off all fluid. Fig. 77 represents a case cured by puncture. It occurred in Case cured by the person of a man, ret. 26, who came under my care at Guy’s tapping. Hospital in 1874, for some ulceration of his left foot, which, with the left lower extremity, was wasted from infantile paralysis. He had also a lateral curvature of the spine towards the right side, and a cured spina bifida in the lumbar region. I discovered from the patient that he had been treated for the spina bifida by Mr. W. E. Imago, of Bury St. Edmund’s, who, in answer to a note, kindly sent me the following account of the case. Fig. 77 Cured spina bifida, taken from man set. 26. “ The child was brought to me when about two years old, because the tumour was increasing in size and convulsions were produced when-