328 SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMIA. CyclitiB. l I Irido- 1 cyclitis. I I I Treatment. 1 Deposit of bone. Tubercle. Injuries of choroid. Appearance of rupture. Treatment. Sympathetic ophthalmia. Danger of wounds of ciliary region. patches are frequently surrounded by dark borders, from accumulation of pigment which has been displaced by the inflammatory material. Inflammation of the ciliary portion of the choroid (ciliary body) is known as “ cyclitis.'” Cyclitis is characterised by redness and swelling of some part or the whole of the ciliary region, with considerable enlargement of the veins of the retina, choroid, and iris, and pain in the eyeball, aggravated by pressure in the ciliary region. Cyclitis may be caused ^y i’ijury or may depend upon syphilis, inherited or acquired. Soft- ening and shrinking of the globe is very likely to follow from impair- ment of nutrition, dependent on interference with the circulation of blood. Suppuration may also take place. Wounds implicating the ciliary region of the sclerotic should always be looked upon as much more serious than those of other portions of the tunic, as cyclitis is frequently set up by such injuries. Cyclitis is not uncommonly asso- ciated with iritis—“ irido-clycitis.” Teeatmbnt.—The treatment of choroiditis should he very similar to that of iritis. Iridectomy does good in some chronic cases or in those in which there is increase of tension of the globe. For the atrophic changes no treatment is of much avail. Bone upon the choroid.—Deposits of bone are not unfrequently met with upon the inner surface of the choroid in eyes that have been blind, and shrunken, for years. Tubercles in the choroid. —In cases of general tuberculosis deposits of tubercle have occasionally been met with in the choroid. Injuries.—The choroid may be injured by foreign bodies entering the eyeball or ruptured by violence, without perforation of the tunics. In the former case (more especially if a foreign body be lodged in the structure of the choroid) inflammation is very liable to follow, the eyeball being eventually lost by suppuration or shrinking. A rupture of the choroid from external violence is attended with more or less hsemorrhage, which fills the rent made in its structure with blood, and may cause considerable displacement of the retina. Seen with the ophthalmoscope soon after the receipt of the injury, a rupture of the choroid appears as a more or less elongated blood clot; later the blood becomes absorbed and a white linear figure is left, from the white sclerotic showing through the rent in the choroid. This form of injury is not often followed by destructive inflammation. Teeatmbnt.—Injuries of the choroid should be treated in the same manner as injuries of the sclerotic, cornea, or iris, with belladonna lotion, lint and a bandage. Sympathetic Ophthalmia. Sympathetic ophthalmia is the name applied to a peculiar form of inflammation of the choroid, ciliary body, and iris, coming on in one eye in consequence of morbid changes which have previously existed or are still in operation in the other. The most common causes of sympathetic ophthalmia are injuries of one eye, especially toounds implicating the ciliary region, or associated with lodgment of a foreign body in the interior of the globe. The wounded eye shortly after the receipt of an injury may become affected by choroido-iritis, the inflammation being of a markedly adhe-