TUMOURS. 128 might be found. In fatty tumours and in deformities, all surgeons recognise the frequency of an hereditary history. Indeed, looking at cancer as one of many diseases, there is no reason for regarding it as more hereditary than any other, and I am inclined to agree with Mr. De Morgan when he said “that all that could be said with regard to the constitutional nature of cancer applied equally to the consti- tutional nature of any, the smallest, growth that can be found in the body.” Striking examples of the hereditary nature of cancer are met with in practice, but they are not more striking, if so much so, as the hereditari- ness of growths of a simple kind. Sir J. Paget has pointed out, however, that when a local disease or deformity is inherited, it passes from proge- nitor to offspring in the same tissue, if not in exactly the same place, whereas, when a cancer is hereditary, it may break out anywhere. “ The cancer of the breast in the parent is marked as cancer of the lip in the offspring. The cancer of the cheek in the parent becomes cancer of the bone in the child. There is in these cases absolutely no relation at all of place or texture.” A disease of Cancer is a disease of adult life, although it may attack a foetus in utero, adult life. or an infant soon after birth (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1875), but when it does affect an organ in the full vigour of its functional activity, it partakes of that activity and runs its course with marvellous rapidity. In a general way, however, cancer is most prone to attack an organ that has passed through the active period of its existence and is degenerating, as in the breast or uterus. Sir J. Paget describes it as being “ essentially a disease of degeneracy,” and asserts “ that it increases in frequency in proportion to the number of persons living as age goes on.” Origin local. Cancer appears to be in its origin a local disease and to become general either by the influence of the juices of the primary tumour exercising an impregnative, spermatic, influence (Simon) upon other parts, or by dissemination of its elements. This dissemination at first may radiate from its local source, and at a later period may become general through the fluids of the body; the secondary growths will par- take largely of the characters of the primary, thus the osteoid cancer will propagate osteoid, and the melanotic melanosis, each cancerous growth, like a parasite, growing at the expense of the tissue in which it lies. Moore, in his wmrk on ‘ The Antecedents of Cancer,’ and De Morgan more recently have, I believe, established this fact. From a clinical point of view, this is, without doubt, of very practical significance, for surgeons now admit, that the earlier a cancerous tumour is removed, the better are the prospects of a cure, or, at least, of a long immunity from the disease. Treatment of Treatment of cancer. cancer. general treatment of cancer resolves itself into the improvement of the general health, the nutrition of the body by hygienic means, good nutritious diet, and tonic medicines. No medicine has any special infiuence on the disease. Local The local treatment may be summed up in the word removal, for measures. cancers should, if practicable, be taken away as soon as their true nature has been established. In the early stage of a can- cerous tumour, before the diagnosis has been made out, it should be protected from external injury, and from all irritating causes. No rough manipulation should be allowed, nor any movement of the