erysipelas. 45 week is about the time that complications appear if they occur at all, Fr?nrhTs%^teTo\ifthat when a patient has had febrile symptoms for some hours attended with pain, tenderness and swelling or the cervical glauds. Eig. 4. 5- Thermograph of erysipelas superven- ing upon removal ot the tarsal bones after the traumatic temperature had subsided, showing rapid elevation of temperature—nearly 5 dewees—at the onset of the disease and steady fall during convalescence. Case of H. B., set. 32. Thermograph of erysipelas in man, set. 29, after removal of parotid tumour. Operation (day 1) followed by slight traumatic fever, day 2, and steady fall in temperature. Elevation of tempera- ture, tiay 4, when blush first became visible, arid steady rise for three days during increase of disease with rapid fall on its subsidence. Convalescence on 11th day. lymphatic glands of the neck, there is no doubt that erysipelas is coming on. Chomel held the same view, and Campbell de Mor- gan relates “that Busk is so convinced of the invariable occurrence of affection of the glauds before erysipelas appears, as to consider it a pathognomonic symptom,” and he believes that, although the blood became affected, the actual primary seat of the local inflammation was in the absorbent system. Sometimes swelling and excessive tender- ness of the glands precede by many hours the appearance of a blush on the skin. These views accord well with those which Dr. Bastiau Dr. Bastiau’s brought before the Pathological Society in 1869, based on the post- views, mortem examination of a man who died from erysipelas in a state of delirium and stupor. In this case finding the small arteries and capillaries of the brain plugged with embolic masses of white blood- corimscles, he suggested this condition as the cause of the delirium. He stated “ that the blood chauge is a general one, and through every Capillary part of the body this blood is carried with its rebellious white corpus- embolism, cles, so that we may expect that in all organs alike the same oblitera- tions of small arteries and capillaries take place.” Thus, when those of the liver are involved, jaundice may be produced, and when those of the kidney, albuminuria, these conditions being occasionally found in erysipelas. If we accept Dr. Bastian’s observations pathologically, and look to the condition of the white blood-corpuscles for an explanation of many of the phenomena of erysipelas, we may fairly admit the inference from clinical observations respecting the absorbent system to which Frank and Busk have called our attention, for the glands of this system and the white blood-corpuscles are generally recognised as having a close relationship. All these observations, however, require confirmation.