219 COMPRESSION OP THE BRAIN. were in the left side. In half the cases general paralysis was the cause of death. Dr. Browne does not think that these cysts have a traumatic origin, but are due to the rupture of a vessel from cerebral hyperajmia. To Mr. Prescott Hewett (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxviii) must be assigned the credit of explaining how these cysts are formed from a chronic change in previously effused blood. For a full elucidation of the subject, however, we are indebted to Drs. Wilks, Ogle, Bacon, and Sutherland (‘Journal of Mental Science,’ vols. x and xij ‘Rep. West Riding Asylum,’ vol. i). COMPRESSION OP THE BRAIN. The brain may be compressed in many ways; though there are four Varieties, special causes of compression:—Compression from depressed hone, the result of fracture, simple or compound; compression from the extra- vasation of blood into any part of the cranium; compression from the formation of matter between the dura mater and the hone; and com- pression from the effusion of inflammatory products into the brain or its membranes. The symptoms of compression under all these different circumstances Onset of are much alike, although the clinical history of the cases and the date symptoms in of the appearance of the symptoms after the injury vary in each vaneij. class. When the result of depressed houe, the symptoms are the im- mediate consequence of the accident. When caused by extravasation of blood, there is almost always some interval of time between the accident and the accession of the symptoms, although that interval may he but short. When caused by the effusion of inflammatory pro- ducts into or on the brain, the symptoms generally appear some days after the accident, and are gradual; and, when the result of the forma- tion of matter between the dura mater and the bone, the symptoms rarely show themselves for two or three weeks after the accident. In both of the latter classes of cases, moreover, headache and other in- flammatory symptoms coexist. The symptoms of compression of the brain are those of apoplexy. Symptoms and their severity depends entirely upon the suddenness and amount those of of the compression. The skull may be fractured and the hone de- “Popiexy. pressed, and still no symptoms arise. Extravasation of blood may also take place to a limited degree within the skull aud not be recognised. There is good reason to believe, indeed, that a considerable amount of blood may be poured out sloioly upon the surface of the brain without giving rise to compression, the brain gradually accommodating itself to the pressure. The most marked cases of compression are usually due to rapid extravasation. When the bones are much depressed, or when the brain is suddenly compressed by the local effusion of blood, symptoms show themselves, such as complete insensibility, slow, diffi- cult, and perhaps stertorous respiration, and a full, slow, labouring pulse. The pupils may be either dilated or contracted, but they will be always fixed, and will not respond to light. In very severe cases the respiration will be of a peculiar puffing character. There may also be complete loss of the power of swallowing, inability to retain faeces, and retention of urine—incontinence or overflow of urine being the* last symptom. When the brain is widely and uniformly compressed by an effusion