305 FIELD OF VISION. Treatment.—Paralyse the accommodation by the constant use of a strong solution of atropine fer. iv of sulphate of atropia to gj of water), and accurately neutralise any existing anomaly of refraction by suitable lenses. Acuteness of Vision. By acuteness of vision we understand the perceptive and conductive power of the structures concerned in sight; this maybe ascertained by the use of test types; i.e. letters of certain definite proportions, which can he recognised by a fairly sharp-sighted eye at certain distances, which distances are marked over each set of letters. The hook of test types we use is that of Dr. Snellen ; in it we find Snellen’s types variously numbered from -5 to 60, the former being -5 of a metre, or 50 centimetres, the latter 60 metres, at which distances the types can be read by an emmetropic eye of normally acute vision. The hook of types can be obtained of Williams and Norgate, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. Field of Vision. By the field of vision wo understand the area over which objects Field of situated in the same vertical plane can be distinguished, the eye being vision, kept fixed on some point. The limits of the field of vision are marked by the most excentrically placed points of objects, which can still he distinguished, the direction of the visual axis of the eye being unaltered. Mode of ascertaining the extent of the visual field :—The extent of the visual field is easily measured by either of the two following methods: 1. The patient being placed at a distance of twelve inches from a Examination black board about three feet square, having a white cross in its centre, °f should he directed to look steadily at the cross, which must he situated on a level with the eyes; one eye being closed, the sensibility of the retina of the other should be tested by moving a piece of chalk fixed black on a dark handle from all directions towards the cross, a mark being board, made at the point where the chalk first becomes visible. The whole area limited excentrically by a line joining the points at which the chalk is first seen when approaching from every direction is known as the quantitative field of vision, in contra-distinc- tion to an area bounded excentrically by much narrower limits, over which objects are distinctly defined, and letters can he read, &c., known as the qualitative field of vision. 2. Another very simple and effectual method of investigating the condition of the visual field is conducted as follows: Having placed the patient in a convenient position, we stand opposite py to him, at a distance of about two feet, and, supposing his left eye to comparison be examined, we direct him to look steadily at our right eye, which is "*''b healthy opposite to his left; the patient’s right eye and our left being kept • closed, we then move our hand in various directions in the peripheral parts of the field, and notice if its movements are perceived by the patient at the same distance from the centre as by our own healthy retina. Care must be taken that the hand is moved in a vertical plane situ- ated midway between our own and the patient’s eye, and not nearer VOL. I. 20