337 ATKOPHY OP THE RETINA. tafcions of syphilis, congenital or acquired, it may be looked upon as syphilitic. Theatment.—Both eyes should he kept thoroughly at rest, by Treatment of prohibiting all near work, paralysing the accommodation by atropine, ‘‘etmitis. and shielding the eyes from the stimulus of too bright light by blue protectors. Everything that is likely to cause disturbance of the ocular circulation, as stooping positions, excitement, stimu- lants, too rapid variations of temperature, &c., should be carefully avoided. In simple retinitis blood should be taken from the temples by leeches. Abstraction or preferably by the artificial leech, and in this form as well as in blood, retinitis connected with syphilis mercury does good j it should be Mercury, given so as quickly to afi'ect the system either by the mouth, by inunction, or in the form of vapour baths. In cases of long standing, however, small doses of the bichloride of mercury, taken regularly for some months, may be beneficial. The other forms of retinitis are of only secondary importance to the disease with which they are asso- ciated, and against which treatment must be directed {see Causes of Retinitis). No treatment is of much avail in retinitis pig- mentosa. Atrophy of the retina may be the sequel of inflammatory changes. Its Atrophy of principal characteristic seen with the ophthalmoscope is a condition of bloodlessness, in some cases associated with opacity of the retina and frequently with atrophic changes in the choroid. Bloodlessness shows itself in a diminution of the visible number and also of the calibre of the retinal blood-vessels, more especially of the arteries, some of which may appear pervious to red blood-corpuscles in part of their course, only their continuations being marked by a yellowish- white cord. Opacities, if they occur, are of a greyish-white colour, and situated for the most part around the optic disc. The disc itself is frequently extremely anaemic or atrophied. Condition of (For treatment of atrophy of the retina, see Atrophy of the optic disc.) Ha!moiThage into the retina.—Besides the form of haemorrhage IlDemorrbage described ns occurring in retinitis, bleeding may take place into the ‘"*9 structure of the retina, from rupture of a retinal hlood-vessel without previous inflammatory change. The haemorrhage is usually consider- able, and will be seen as an irregular patch of blood, situated some- where in the course of the ruptui'ed vessel, and often surrounded by inflammatory exudation. The extravasated blood becomes gradually absorbed, but usually leaves behind it some indications of its previous existence. 'Iebatment.—Rest of the eyes and protection from bright light. Displacement of the retina is associated with effusion of serous Displacement fluid between it and the choroid; it may be caused by blows on the retina, eyeball or the head in its vicinity; it may occur without apparent cause, and is often met with in myopic eyes. Displacement of the retina occurs by preference at its lower part, but may vary in extent from detachment of a small fold to total separation of the whole retina from the choroid, the only points of attachment left being at the optic disc and ciliary processes. The ophthalmoscope shows a grey, opaque, movable cloud, over the surface of which the retinal blood-vessels can be traced. VOL. I. 22