195 DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. An adenoid growth may appear as a tumour within the gland itself, or connected with it, or more commonly as an intra-cystic growth, similar to that seen so frequently in the breast. In them clinical his- Characters, tory such cases cannot well be diagnosed from the ordinary goitre, although, when the disease is unilateral, and assumes a rounded or irre- gular form, and appears to be an isolated outgrowth of the gland itselt, the nature of the tumour may be suspected; when placed, however, within the gland itself, or within a cyst in the gland, the diagnosis is impossible. In the figure below (Fig. 61), taken from a drawing by Fig.01. Fig. 63. Peilunculiited tliyroidal tumour. lilicroscopicnl appearance of thyroid glands. (From Dr. ilo.xon’s drawing.) Dr. Moxon, of an old preparation in the Guy’s Hospital Museum (1711''“), a tumour the size of a grape is depicted hanging down loosely by a pedicle attached to a lobe of the gland. In the gland there is a well-marked, cup-like depression, from which the tumour had fallen out, the pedicle mainly consisting of a large artery emerging from the gland. The growth had an ossified capsule, and was composed of a structure like that of thyroid tissue (Fig. 62). My late colleague, Mr. Poland, has recorded a like case in which excision was success- fully performed (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1871). Frerichs, Rokitansky, and Virchow record somewhat similar instances. Paget thus refer*s Paget on to the subject of accessory thyroid tumours: “ These growths of new gland tissue may appear not only in the substance of the enlarging thyroid, but external to and detaehed from the gland. Such outlying masses of thyroid gland are not rare near bronchoceles, lying by them like the little spleens one sees near the larger mass. Their history is merged in that of bronchoceles (see ‘Virchow,’ lect. 22), with which they are usually associated, whether embedded as distinct masses in the enlarged gland, or lying close to it, but discontinuous.” Cancerous growths appear as infiltrating afiectious of the gland, Cancer of or, as distinct tumours ; they have no speeial clinical characters ' until they attack the surrounding tissues by continuity, or break