381 AFFECTIONS OP THE ORBIT. directly to the part were tried for some months without benefit. It was at length determined by the patient’s medical attendant to per- form an operation; accordingly, an incision was made over the tumour. Cure by and several fair-sized vessels which appeared to communicate with it operation, were tied; the wound healed kindly. 1 saw the patient again at the beginning of the summer of 1874. The congestion had disappeared, the pulsation ceased, and the eyeball ;i had returned to its natural position, the only sign of the disease re- B maining being a small linear cicatrix in the upper eyelid and a slight i thickening near the inner angle of the orbit in the position previously y occupied by the pulsating tumour. Teeatm'ent.—Rest, low diet, with depressing remedies, as cold Treatment. ( applied locally, and the administration of digitalis or antimony, should 1 always have a fair trial. Pressure applied locally, by means of a pad j and bandage, should also he employed if it can be borne. These means failing, recourse must be had to digital pressure of the DiRital £ carotid, kept up for some hours, the patient being under the infiuence pressure. I of an aumsthetic, as pressure in the neck gives rise to such in- ( tolerable pain, that even the most resolute can only bear it for a few i minutes at a time. As a last resource, a ligature must be applied to the common carotid Ligature of I on the same side as the disease. common This operation was performed in all but one of Mr. Nunneley’s cases * : with the best results. Should a case similar to that reported in this article occur, the 1 operation which proved so successful in it should be performed. Exophthalmic Goitre (Basedow's Disease). E.\opthal- ' This disease is characterised by protrusion of the eyeball, impair- S«*tre. meut of the movements of the lids, and diminished sensibility of the cornea and conjunctiva, accompanied by disturbance of the heart’s action and systolic murmurs in the heart and great blood-vessels of the neck together with dyspnoea and enlargement of the thyroid body. Treatment.—Should the protrusion of the eyeballs be very extreme, ulceration and perforation of the cornea may occur; this may be guarded against by protecting the cornea with a small pad and light bandage applied over the closed lids, or the palpebral aperture may be closed by operation. These patients are, however, extremely intolerant of anajsthetics. General medical treatment should also be employed; for this the reader is referred to works on general medicine. Tumours of the Orbit, Orbit and Eyeball, and Eyeball alone. Tumours. &c. Tumours of the orbit alone are—exostoses, nmvi, cysts, nodes, and malignant growths. Those of both orbit and eyeball are usually malignant, and commence primarily either in the eyeball or some of the other structures within the orbit. Those of the eyeball alone are also for the most part malignant, but simple sarcomatous and cystic growths are occasionally met with. Tumours of the Orbit alone. Exostoses.—These are of two kinds, either hard, ivory-like masses. Exostoses consisting of compact bony tissue; or soft spongy growths, of an open cancellated structure.