502 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VEINS. cRiiliu'"'*'*** l^lescribecl as a “solid oedema.” In extreme instances, this solid oedema is so marked as to give rise to appearances similar to the disease called “ elephas,” or Arabian elephantiasis. May inflame. On the other hand, it is a very common result for the cellular tissue around the vein to inflame, and probably the vein itself. The parts around the varix or tortuous vein become indurated, red, and painful. In healthy subjects this inflammation may end as an adhesive one (local adhesive phlebitis), and in the feeble as a suppurative; local or diffused abscesses subsequently showing themselves. When the powers of the patient are very low, or blood poisoning takes place, that terrible disease, unhealthy suppurative phlebitis, previously described, may ensue. In the early period of the disease, an aching of the limhs on standing, or after exercise, may be the only symptom, a local pain occasionally iu- dicating the seat. In a more advanced period, oedema around the ankle may be observed. When the femoral vein, where the grand venous junction takes place simulate at the saphenous opening becomes dilated, the swelling may, on a careless examination, be mistaken for a femoral hernia, for both will disappear on the patient assuming the recumbent posture, and reappear on his coughing. There is, however, this point of distinction, that while by local pressure on tbe crural ring a femoral hernia can be kept in its position, a femoral varix can be made to enlarge. As a secondary result of varicose disease, tbe blood in the vein may coagulate giving rise to thrombosis, and this coagulum may break up causing a local abscess, or, it may wither and organize, causing occlusion of the vein, and, consequently a partial cure. There is reason also to believe, that this may dry up and become so altered as to form what are known as phlebolithes, as these have a laminated character, and, in Dr. Franklin’s analysis are said to be composed of protein matter and phosphate of lime, with a little sulphate of potash and lime. With varicose disease of the veins there is very frequently associated an eczematous condition of the leg, the eczema being apparently due to the feeble venous circulation of the part. If this eczema be neg- lected, a superficial ulceration of the skin may ensue, and if no atten- , tion be paid to this condition, the ulcer becomes chronic. But beyond this, no special form of ulcer can be said to exist as a result of varicose veins, in fact, there are no “varicose ulcers.” In practice ' every variety of ulcer is found associated with varicose disease, and the existence of the latter, doubtless renders the repair of the former somewhat more difficult. Thus it appears that chronic indolent sores associated with varicose diseases have been termed “ varicose ulcers.” Treatment.—Varicose disease of the veins in its early stage is very amenable to treatment, but, later on, none are more obstinate; the patient being only relieved, and rarely cured. Happily, however, under common care it never threatens life. When the affection is first discovered, the local treatment must be directed to assist the venous circulation by tbe raised position of the limb, the patient being recumbent; friction, too, should be steadily ap- plied upwards; all sitting, standing, or walking be strictly prohibited; and, when possible, this treatment should be persevered in for three or four weeks. When exercise is allowed, steady pressure by a well-applied lemoral hernia, May give rise to thrombosis. Phlebolithes. May be associated with eczema. Varicose ulcer. Treatment. In early stage local.