I TREATMENT OP HEMORRHOIDS. 711 little blue pill or grey powder and chalk at bed-time are sometimes of use, some bicarbonate of potash in gentian or calumba assisting recovery. Absolute local cleanliness should always be observed, and the recum- Cleanliness, bent position assumed after defsecation, the prolapsed pile being always reduced at once by gentle pressure. By these different means Reduction of an attack of piles may pass away never to return, or to do so after a long interval; but even in the worst cases relief may be given. When the piles are inflamed the application of leeches occasionally Leeches gives great relief, bleeding being encouraged by hot fomentations; such means, however, are rarely called for, the complete washing out of the lower bowel, rest, and fomentations being generally sufficient. In some cases the application of ice in a cup-sponge gives more relief under these circumstances than any other remedy. When the prolapsed internal piles are strangulated by the sphincter when pile spasmodically contracting around the mass, sloughing of the whole may sloughs, take place. Under these circumstances, great pain is caused by the tension of the parts, and on one occasion, I was tempted to cut off with scissors some of the projecting portions, when the relief was so marked that I would repeat it under the same circumstances, though to adopt this practice with safety, the pile must be in the condition that precedes its death. When this sloughing takes place, a cure may follow. During the sloughing process, a poultice is the best applica- tion. The mucous discharge from the bowel in long-e.xisting piles can only Enemata and be met by enemata and the application of astringents, an ointment of astringents, tannic acid ten grains to the ounce, of gall and opium, or of extract of rhatany, half a drachm to the ounce of lard or spermaceti, being good local applications. The occasional introduction of a suppository of tannic acid into the rectum is likewise a valuable expedient; and an enema of alum or tannin, five grains to the ounce, is also serviceable. Allingham speaks highly of an ointment of the persulphate of iron half a drachm to one drachm of the unguentum cetacei, or, as a lotion, twenty grains to an ounce. Surgical Treatment. Surgical Unless the general condition of the patient forbids, all piles, external or internal, should be removed, when they not only give local annoy- ance, but by the hromorrhage produced they upset the general health of the patient and induce weakness. To accomplish this many means are at our disposal. External hcemorrhoids ought to be removed by abscission. Internal piles ought never to be excised but destroyed by the galvanic Internal piles or actual cautery, or ligatured. In the hands of many surgeons the not to be ligature still holds its ground, but with as many it has been nearly, if not altogether, superseded by the cautery. In a few cases nitric acid is of service. I have used the ligature only in exceptional cases for at least fourteen years. In Paris, a plan of treatment has been successful, which claims attention as it receives the support of M. Verneuil. It consists of forced anal dilatations, either by the thumbs of the surgeon or by means of a dilator, the piles withering after one full dilatation of the anus.—(‘ Union Medicale,’ March 6, 1877). The ligature.—The hajmorrhoidal tumours having been made to Ligature, and • protrude by the patient straining over a stool containing hot water, or '“o'!® ®f i*se. j i 1