696 SURGERY OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. Operation through the abdominal walls. Inguinal operation. Lumbar operation. Treatment where rectum opens into vagina. backward position of the genital organ, other measures must be adopted, and of these the opening of tlie large intestine through the abdominal wall is certainly the best. M. Eochard, in the ‘ Meraoires de I’Acad^mie Imperiale de Medecine,’ 1859, gives ten authentic suc- cessful cases of Littre’s operation in the groin for this affection. Holmes informs us, in his admirable work ‘ On the Surgical Diseases of Children,’ that he had not met with the account of any permanently successful operation since the publication of Rochard’s paper. Guersant opened the colon in the groin eleven times in succession, and once in the loin, without saving a patient. Girald^s, however, had one case in which a child lived two months and a half and then died from another cause. The operation, to he successful, must he undertaken early, before the infant is exhausted and peritonitis set in. Delay is only justifiable wlien the bowel is not distended and the symptoms not in any way urgent. With respect to the form of operation, that known as Littre’s is probably the best, viz. opening the bowel in the groin. The left groin is usually selected, although the right has been recommended by Huguier on account of the frequent bend in the colon towards the right groin, and the absence of the rectum in these eases. Giraldes also has shown from dissection, that in thirty infants operated on for imperforation, the intestine was found on the left in all. (‘Nouveau Diet, de Med. et de Chirimg. pratiques,’ 1864.) I have on three occasions performed Huguier’s operation with temporary success. lu the last case, operated upon in December, 1876, the child (a male) was twelve days old before relief was sought, and he lived eight days, dying from chronic peritonitis, which had evidently existed before the operation. The artificial anus had been made in the lower part of the large intestine, and, had the operation been performed at an earlier period, good success would probably have been attained. The question is, therefore, still sub judice. Amussafs operatbn in the loin is rightly put aside in these cases on account of the natural loose- ness of the colon at this part in children, and the very usual oblique turn of the colon after its splenic flexure. Figures likewise help towards the same conclusion, since out of fourteen instances in which Littre’s operation was performed, nine recovered, whereas two only out of seven recovered after the lumbar operation. The operation itself has been described in page 630. In the treatment of the third class of cases, where the rectum opens into the vagina, the surgeon may lay open the rectum from the position of the natural anus, having previously passed a director into the vaginal orifice of the gut as a guide, drawing down, when pos- sible, the bowel, and fastening it to the integument by sutmes, as originally performed with success by Amussat. As a guide to the perinseal incision, a bent probe may be passed into the vaginal oriice of the bowel, and the end turned towards the perinseum, cutting lown carefully upon it. I have done this with success on four occasions, and in all, stitched the bowel to the margm of the integument, formiag a good anus. In two cases, the vaginal orifice subsequently closed. In two, that were operated on several years ago, the patients have gpod control over their motions, while the vaginal faecal fistula seems to be contracting, liquid motions alone passing.