662 ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Statistics in favour of not opening the sac. When sac slioiild be laid open. I proved fairly that in no single fatal case could the opening of the sac have had the slightest influence in retarding or preventing the fatal result, as well as by my twenty-two years’ experience. The surgeon who advocates the major operation, in most cases will try the taxis, and, I take it, is always well pleased to effect the reduction of a hernia by such means. The operation of herniotomy “ external to the hernial sac ” differs only from the taxis in the skin wound, yet in what way the necessity for that wound renders the taxis an unsafe measure, it is difficult to conceive. It would be as reasonable to reject the adminis- tration of chloroform for the renewed application of the taxis in cases where it had failed to reduce the hernia without its aid, as to say, that because the taxis had failed and a cutting operation is demanded, the ocular inspection and manipulation of the strangulated and therefore already injured bowel is required. To argue that the liberation of a strangulated bowel is not complete until it has been care- fully examined, and that moreover without opening the sac, a hernia that is strangulated by omental or other adhesions or by the neck of the sac, may be reduced, are objections which, if applicable at all, are as forcible against the taxis as any operation, and are indeed of little weight. The operation of herniotomy without opening the sac, has been ably advocated by Petit who first adopted it in 1718, by Munro in 1770, Aston Key in 1833, Luke, and others. So far as statistics are of value towards the solution of this matter, they are in favour of not opening the sac. Thus out of 59 cases of strangulated femoral hernia operated upon at Guy’s Hospital in eight years, in which the sac was opened, the mortality was 50 per cent., and, out of 45 cases in which the sac was not opened it was only 30 per cent.—the difference between the two classes of cases being 20 per cent, in favour of the minor operation. Out of 35 cases of inguinal hernia in which the sac tuas opened, 60 per cent, died, and out of 9 in which the sac was not opened two, or only 22 per cent., died; the difference between the two classes in inguinal hernia being 40 per cent, in favour of not opening. But it must be remembered, that as a rule, the cases in which the sac was not were of a more favorable kind than those in which it toas opened. In umbilical hernia it is a rare thing, however, to save a patient after opening the sac and exposing its contents, though when this is not done, a good resull. may be looked for. Whenever the taxis is applicable to a strangulated hernia and fails herniotomy without opening the sac is applicable, and, where reduction is efl'ected nothing more is needed. AVhere reduction cannot be effected, or a doubtful something remains in the sac, where the con- tents of the sac have not gone back with their normal rush, or the symptoms persist, and any doubt about the condition of the parts at the neck of the sac is raised, au exploration of the sac and its neck is abso- lutely necessary. Whenever the taxis is inapplicable, that is, when the strangulation has been of long duration, the symptoms severe, foecal vomiting persistent, and the local as well as general symptoms indicate the probability that the strangulated gut has died or is dying; whenever, moreover during the application ot the taxis—by the sudden collapse