212 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN AND ITS EFFECTS. Excessive reaction. When reaction is excessive it is attended with symptoms of fever, and brain disturbance, such as delirium, excitement, and coma; but the sub- ject of intracranial inflammation will claim attention in another page. Effects of violent shaking of brain. Bruising by contre-coup. Hsemorrhage on iirain. Diseased vessels. Ha>morrhage into brain. Results of post-mortem Diagnosis of contusion. Severity and persistency of symptoms Extravasation of Blood as result of Concussion. If the brain be violently shaken, bruising of its substance and ex- travasation of blood must ensue. When the injury is the result of a direct blow, the brain mischief may be only local, yet it is more usual to find the opposite side of the brain also bruised, by what is rightly termed “ contre-coup,” and it very often happens that the mischief to the brain by contre-coup is greater than that at the seat of local injury. When the fall is upon the vertex, the base is bruised j when on the occi- put, the anterior lobe ; when on the right parietal region, the base of the left middle lobe is the injured part; in fact, the base of the brain is almost always the seat of injury. In all these cases, blood will be extravasated to a greater or less degree; and when the vessels are diseased the haemorrhage may be excessive. When the extravasation of blood is upon the surface of the brain it will be either upon or withia the membranes, within the cavity of the arachnoid or the meshes of the pia mater, and under both circumstances the blood will gravitate to the base. When the extravasation of blood takes place into the structure of the brain itself it may be found in any part of the cere- brum, cerebellum or pons Varolii, or into the ventricles, the extravasa- tion rarely showing itself in the form of one large clot, but commonly in small and numerous spots of extravasation. On referring to my notes on this subject, I find in a case oi con- cussion, which proved fatal sixty hours after the injury, that the brain was bruised all over, and blood effused at the injured spots, the fluid in the ventricles was blood-stained, and the ventricles them- selves ecchymosed. In another case of death from concussion, the result of a fall, in a man set. 31, in whom convulsions and coma supervened on the fifteenth day after the injury, a layer of blood was found universally diffused over both hemispheres, dipping between the convolutions and passing downwards towards the base. The clot, ^hic was shreddy, of a dull, reddish-black colour, had evidently been effused for some days. The surface of the brain beneath the seat of injury was softened, and at the base, where it had been injured by contre- coup, similar changes had taken place. The vessels were healthy. In a third case, where the vessels were diseased and death followed irom concussion, multiple e.xtravasations were detected after death throug out the substance of the brain. . i. In all these typical cases, illustrating the different effects of con- cussion, fatal results took place from severe shaking of the brain,, unassociated with fracture; but it is to be remembered that where a fracture is present, unless it be attended with depressed bone, tne shaking of the brain is the source of danger. From what has been thus stated the conclusion may be dr.awntliat the nature of the accident is the best guide in forming an on the existence of contusion of the brain as well as on its extcuc, although the severity of the symptoms, or their persistency, is, dou - less, a valuable indication. The French surgeons, however, look upo the following symptoms as diagnostic of a contused brain: lou