430 DISEASES OF THE AETEEIES. I soon accumulate. In severer cases the middle and outer coats, and the ! i deep layer of the inner coat, are seen to be charged with lymph-cells in ^ ; enormous numbers, crowded together, and separating the proper elastic ' i and the muscular fibres into little patches and shreds, while both elastic i; and muscTilar fibres fall into a state of fatty degeneration.”—Moxon, 1 ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Kep.,’ 1870-71. I In Figs. 125 and 125a, taken from drawings kindly made for me I by Dr. Moxon, these changes can be seen. His description is appended. Mechanical Dr. Moxon and others believe, and I think rightly, that mechanical ^ ofatheroma strain is the main cause of atheroma of the arteries. It is chiefly found at points where the strain upon the coats is greatest and in men who follow laborious occupations. GuUiver originally described it as a disease of the larger arteries, but it is now known to involve the whole arterial system. ; In advanced disease calcareous plates are found in the larger arteries,' while the smaller are converted into completely solid tubes. The vessels,' moreover, alter in shape, and become tuberous as well as tortuous—dila-^ tation taking place at the points of bifurcation. When the disease is Fig. 125. Fig. 125a. Fig. 125 shows the iucipiciu inflammatory stage of the change in an artery which leads to atheroma, and in which aneurism usually occurs. . ' ’ Fig. 125a shows the final degenerative stage of the same change in the artery which constitutes atheroma. Fig. 125 is a small portion of a fine section of an artery from the neighbourhood of an Bj aneurism; the artery was here soft and swollen, and had a more pellucid andp bluish appearance than natural. A small and early patch of the disease is repre-B, seated. The cells of tlie artery-wall are found enlarged, their nuclei multiplied, J, and at the centre of the patch they burst towards each other to make a cluster of cells derived from the multiplied nuclei. , , n Fig. 126a is taken from the same artery at another spot, when the coat had the well- known yellow appearance of atheroma. Here the patch of multiplied cells has t degenerated to a heap of oily and earthy matter with some plates of cholesterme. ^ The individual cells around are seen to be degenerated in the same way. Some ot , those at the upper part of the figure are, on the other hand, developing into elastic . fibrils. This is a frequent accompaniment of the atheromatous process, ana its i effect is to ultimately strengthen the arterial wall at the diseased spot. very extensive or advanced, the inner coats become destroyed and 1 undermined with blood. When this takes place to any extent, what is (