FOREIGN BODIES IN (ESOPHAGUS. 597 (Dsopliagus, or low down in the pharynx, and has resisted a fair trial for its extraction or displacement, its removal should at once be effected by incision, although no urgent symptoms may be present ” (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xviii). Mr. Cock endorsed this opinion when he wrote in 1867 (‘ Guy’s Rep.’) : “ The longer a foreign body is allowed to remain. For stricture unless we wait—a forlorn hope—for suppuration to loosen it, the more and caiuier of firmly it will become impacted. It would appear that success attends a iag*'s. speedy operation; whereas, where the use of the knife has been delayed uutil local inflammation, suppuration, or even sloughing has been estab- lished, the result of the operation has been fatal.” Up to the end of 1877, 28 cases of this operation for the removal of foreign bodies have been recorded, and of these 23 were successful, the three last added to those given by Dr. David Cheever, of Boston, 1868, including two of Dr. Le Roy McLean, of Troy (‘ New York Med. Record,’ 1877), and one of Mr. Wheeler’s, of Dublin, 1875, and two of Langenbeck’s (‘ Med. Record,’ March, 1878). More recently the oesophagus has been opened for stricture and cancer of the passage, and Dr. Menzel reports (‘ Wiener Med. Wochenschrift,’ No. 56,1870) two cases in which Billroth performed it. That which was CEsoph.iKO- successf ul occurred in a boy mt. 11, who seven years before had swallowed tomy for some potash lye. For two days before the operation neither liquid nor solid food could be swallowed, nor bougies passed. The oesophagus was body, opened and a cherry stone which had been fixed in the stricture removed. The boy drank water directly afterwards, and, in twenty-six days the wound had healed. The report does not say that he could swallow freely. The second case was for cancerous disease, but the man died. The operation.—The patient should be placed in the recumbent posi- Operation tion with his shoulders slightly elevated, the head being turned to the right or left side according to the point of projection of the foreign body. Where this guide is lost the left side should be selected, the Mode of oesophagus inclining rather to that side. An incision should then be made porformauce along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, about four or • five inches long, its centre corresponding to the position of the foreign body, and all the soft parts (rarefully divided. The omo-hyoid will then come into view, and underneath this, the carotid sheath with its vessels will be seen. The deep cervical fascia is then to be laid open, and if more room be required the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles may also he partially divided. The vessels with the sterno-mastoid muscle, should then be drawn well outwards by means of hooked retractors. The larynx with the oesophagus behind can then be examined, and the position of the foreign body accurately made out, pressure with the finger on the opposite side tending materially to make this point clear. Should the foreign body project, the larynx may be drawn well forward or towards the opposite side, and a cut made down upon the projecting part, the wound being carefully enlarged to allow of an extraction without force. When the foreign body does not project, a guide should be used, such as a silver catheter, flexible lead or tin sound, or a long pair of forceps intro- duced through the mouth downwards into the pharynx, the point of the instrument pressing forward the oesophageal wall. All vessels that bleed during the operation should be at once twisted or ligatured. On opening the oesophagus, the recurrent laryngeal nerve should he carefully avoided. The wound should be left open. The patient must be fed for a few days by means of a small oesophageal tube, introduced through the mouth