INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. 492 'Ligature of the dorsalis pedis artery, ii i; i ! Wounds of veins. Mode of union. Complete division. Ligature of Dorsal Arteries of the Foot. orevis-digitorum^^' muscle The dorsalis pedis artery should be ligatured to the outer side of the Pio. 160. extensor proprius pol- licis muscle, by the side of which it lies. The vessel can readily be ex- posed by an incision made along its course, the integument and deep fascia being di- vided. (Fig. 160.) It is crossed at its lower part by the tendon of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum muscle, and the nerve lies outside the vessel, while venae comites at- tend the artery. The tendon of the last- named muscle is an infallible guide to the artery, as it crosses it, whilst the tendon of the extensor pro- prius poUicis muscle is the guide to the in- cision. The surface line Ligature of dorsalis pedis artery. of this vessel extends from the middle of the joint of the ankle to the base of the first meta- tarsal space. Tendon g/* . Txtensor /irojirius jiollicis I 1 CHAPTER XI. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VEINS. The blood from a wounded vein is black, flows in a steady stream, 1 and never jets out as from an artery. When mixed with arterial 't blood, as occurs when both artery and vein are punctured, it ap- , pears as a dark band, streaming through a red, or vice versa; the relative thickness of black or red band indicating the extent of the wound in the artery and vein. Pressure on the distal side of a wounded vein controls bleeding, whilst pressure on the cardiac side [r increases it. Wounds of veins unite as do wounds of arteries, the reparative process being alike in both. After a clean incision into a vein repair may be so perfect in a few days as to leave no trace of J injury behind. The lips of a wound in a vein readily unite—as after | venesection, when kept together by gentle pressure, or the application U of a ligature. I A completely divided vein contracts, though somewhat less than an j artery j it also retracts into its sheath, and the natural arrest of , haemorrhage is helped by these actions, together with the coagulation ? | \