SURGERY OP THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 408 SURGERY OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Wounds of the ; pericardium. Paracentesis, Wounds of the heart. Symptoms. Collapse. Dyspnoea. Pulse. Diagnosis. ' Duration of I'l life. CHAPTER X. WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND ARTERIES—H.$MORRHAGE AND ITS TREATMENT. Wounds of the Heart. Although it is quite possible for the anterior mediastinum to be traversed from side to side by a foreign body without any important structure being tvounded, it is far more common for some severe lesion to be the result, such as a wound of the pericardium, heart, lung, or of the great vessels. A wound of the pericardium alone may occur, and not prove fatal. Dr. G. Fischer has collected fifty-two reputed cases of this nature, including punctured, incised, gunshot, and lacerated wounds, t wenty-two of which recovered. The chief danger of this local injury lies in secondary inflammation of the membrane. Prom a unique preparation shown by Mr. Morant Baker in May, 187V, at the Pathological Society, it would seem that an omental or other hernia may take place from the abdominal cavity through the diaphragm into the pericardium by an aperture, the result of some antecedent stab. The operation of “ paracentesis pericardii ” has been performed with advantage. Wounds of the heart itself are generally mortal, death taking place immediately in about one fourth of the cases; in the bulk of the remainder after a few days ; rare instances recovering. The symptoms of a wound of the heart are very uncertain, but tbe most important, says Poland, “ is the presence of a lesion in the neighbourhood of the heart, with external bleeding, followed by all the signs of sudden internal haemorrhage.” Sudden collapse is a very general consequence of the injury, and, when it comes on some time afterwards, it is pro- bably due to secondary hmmorrhage from the giving way of the clot in the wounded heart. Dyspnoea, according to Fischer’s Analysis, is not constant, and, w'hen present, seems to be due to compression of the heart by the effusion of blood into the pericardium and pleursi. In some cases it is immediate and intense. The pulse is often unequal, small and intermitting. Poirais uncertain. The position of the external wound is a valuable aid to diagnosis, and it is well to remember that the sternal end of the second left intercostal space corresponds to the left side of the base of the heart, and the lower margin of the fifth rib to the apex. In a medico-legal sense it should also be known that “ when a person is found dead with a wound in the heart, attended with abun- dant hmmorrhage, it must not be supposed that the flow of blood took place in an instant, or that the person died immediately, and was utterly incapable of exercising any power.” (Taylor.) The symptoms as well as the duration of life are much influenced by the direction and size of the wound. Thus, if made in the course of the muscular fibres there will be little or no hannorrhage, and consequently less collapse and dyspnoea j but if the heart be cut across, the edges will separate to a