INGUINAL HERNIA. 673 Prognosis.—As the danger of a strangulated hernia depends upon Prognosis of the amount of damage the intestine has sustained by the strangula- strangulated tion, so the amount of damage the bowel has received is to he measured by the intensity of the strangulation and the length of its duration. A tight unyielding strangulation, such as usually exists in a femoral or in a direct inguinal hernia, does more harm in a short period than a less tight and more yielding constricting force, such as is met with in oblique inguinal hernia, in a longer period; violent taxis adding materially to the danger of the case. The existence of peritonitis before the reduction of the hernia is always an unfavourable sign, as it is not likely to be lessened by the introduction into the peritoneal cavity of a portion of bowel already inflamed and altered in character. A hernia in an otherwise healthy subject, that has not been strangulated for many hours, that has not been injured by violent manipulation, and has been reduced by the “ minor” operation, will probably do well, when another that has been strangulated for days, or been subjected to violent taxis, will pro- bably do badly. Where disease of the kidneys or of other viscera exists the prognosis wiieu kidney is always unfavourable, and, in old people, the same opinion must be diseases formed. A case in which the intestine has been freely exposed is more un- favourable than one in which no e.xposure has taken place, and any excessive manipulation of the hernial contents always adds to the danger. The reduction of a severely damaged intestine is more liable to be followed by a bad result than where little injury exists, but a slightly injured bowel in an aged or unhealthy subject is always likely to do badly. A recent hernia requiring operation is always far more fatal than an “ old case.” In private practice, where herniro, as a rule, are discovered and Early treated early, good success follows herniotomy, but in hospital practice, reduction, where neglect and delay combined have had their influence, treatment is very unsuccessful, nearly one half of the cases dying. At Guy’s Hospital the average period of strangulation for femoral hernia is seventy-six hours; of inguinal, fifty; and half the cases that die after the opera- tion do so within forty-eight hours, the injury to the bowel being so great and the power of the patient so reduced, that any reaction after the reduction of the hernia is rendered impossible. Under these cir- cumstances, the worst that can be said for the operation is, that it fails to cure. Inguinal Hernia. Inguinal hernia, or that form which protrudes through the internal Ou inguinal or external abdominal rings, includes two thirds of all cases of hernia, hernia, and about half of all cases of strangulated hernia. Two out of three cases of strangulated inguinal hernia are reducible by the taxis, the third requiring operation. In hospital practice, half of those operated upon die; operations in recent cases being most fatal. An inguinal hernia is called oblique when it passes through the Oblique and internal ring and along the inguinal canal downwards towards the direct scrotum ; direct, when it does not pass through the internal ring, but through the external in a direct way. VOL. I. 43