238 DISEASES OP THE SCALP AND CRANIUM. Other tumours. Nsevi. Perforating tumours of the skull. Symptoms. Distinction between cranial and intracranial tumours. Treatment. Meningocele and Ence- phalocele. is sometimes difficult on account of its close attachments, and unless all the cyst is removed a return of the growth may be looked for. Some surgeons consequently advise the careful dissection of the cyst; I have generally found, however, a free incision into it, and the removal of its walls by the scalpel or scissors to be sufficient. The scalp may likewise be the seat of other tumours, simple or malignant, of epithelial cancer of the skin, or of any other affection of the integument. These require no special attention here. Nsevi are very common in all their forms—cutaneous, subcutaneous, or mixed; but this subject will be considered in another chapter. Let me caution the student, however, not to adopt hastily any surgical proceedings with a nsevus situated over a fontanelle, for although such may be dealt with with impunity I have known a fatal inflamma- tion attack the membranes of the brain after the application of a ligature to an undoubtedly cutaneous nsevus placed over this region. If pos- sible he should wait till the bones have closed before he interferes. Perforating tumours of the skull occasionally come under the surgeon’s notice, and demand attention. The majority of them have their origin from the membranes covering the brain, and mainly from the dura mater. They are generally can- cerous, and are often secondary deposits; though occasionally they seem to be of the “fibroplastic” nature. They were first described by Louis in 1744, under the term “ fungus of the dura mater ” (‘ Mem. de I’Acad. Roy. de Chir.,’ tome v). Since his day all perforating tumours of the skull have been included under this heading. It must be remembered also that a tumour growing within the skull, and pressing outwards, will oause absorption of the cranial hones, and this fact is rendered familiar to pathologists by the enlargement of the Pacchionian bodies. The symptoms indicating the presence of this affection are very un- certain, although headache, more or less constant and severe, may exist with epileptiform convulsions and other brain symptoms; yet, as often as not, the first marked condition to which the patient’s attention is directed is a swelling in one of the bones, the disease having progressed thus far without having given rise to any symptoms whatever. When the diseased mass has perforated the bone the swelling receiving its im- pulse from the brain, will be pulsatile, and this symptom is of importance, as a distinctive one between tumours of the bone itself and the perforating tumours of the membranes. In cancerous disease the bone itself will be infiltrated with cancerous elements and destroyed, while in benign tumours the hone will be absorbed simply by pressure, as is seen in aneurism. In the former case the opening in the bone will be ill defined and irregular, and in the latter it will be smooth as well as regular. With respect to treatment, it is almost needless to say that nothing can be done by way of removal of the growth. The symptoms to which it gives rise can only be relieved by sedatives, and life prolonged by general treatment. The bones of the skull are liable to tumours, cancerous or benign, to exostoses, particularly of the ivory kind, and to myeloid growths; though in this place it is only necessary to mention the fact. Meningocele and Encephalocele. These terms are applied to conditions of the head found in children at