INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE NERVES. 286 Disease of cervical vertebrse. Exfoliation of odontoid process. Giving way of the transverse ligament. Treatment. Contusions. larger, and the constitutional disturbance as a consequence more severe, when the opening has taken place. Disease of the upper cervical vertebrse.—Disease of the upper two cervical vertehraB and of the occipital articulation is often found, and may he accounted for by the greater mobility of the joints, and con- sequent liability of the ligaments to sprain and laceration. Disease may be situated in the bones entering into the formation of the joints, or, in the soft parts binding them together; and, with the disease, some displacement of one of the vertebrse is occasionally met with. When the disease is in the second vertebra, the odontoid process may separate and even exfoliate. Such a result took place in a case illustrated in Guy’s Museum, prep. 1018'®, in which a woman who had had a stiff neck for months coughed up the necrosed odontoid process; recovery took place with a stiff neck, and four years subsequently, the woman was following the occupation of a barmaid. When the transverse ligament is diseased, the odontoid process may become displaced and the cord injured (Guy’s Museum, prep. 1289^'). When the displacement is great, sudden death may take place under these circumstances; and when partial, more or less paralysis may ensue, according to the amount of pressure the cord has sustained. Fixed pain about the cervical vertebrae with pain in the distribution of the occipital nerves and stiff neck, is always suspicious of cervical disease; and, wdien aggravated by rotation or downward pressure of the head, the case is serious. Under these circumstances, the aspect of the patient is very characteristic; the chin is tilted up, and all the muscles of the neck become rigid; the patient may even support the head with his hands. Treatment must be conducted on recognised principles. The danger of sudden death by the displacement of the bones must be diminished by the application of a support to keep the head straight and prevent its falling forwards, and tliis may be accomplished by the application of a collar round the neck, passing under the chin with a support embracing the he.ad, or by Sayre’s jury-mast apparatus (Fig. 88a). Rest in the horizontal position is, however, of greater value, care being ob- served to keep a small firm pillow underneath the neck, to preserve the hollow, and in this way, as pointed out by Hilton in his classical work ou rest, “ to lift up the body of the second vertebra and remove the odontoid process from the lower part of the medulla oblongata, and thus prevent the fatal results of pressure upon it.” At the same time the head should be kept at rest by means of sand-bags applied laterally. Remedies that have been mentioned in the treatment of angular curva- ture of the spine are here of use. In cases of severe spinal curvature, there is good reason to believe that the span of life is often shortened, on account of the interference with the respiratory and circulatory func- tions caused by the deformity. My colleague. Dr. Fagge, has written an interesting'paper on this subject. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1874.) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NERVES. When a nerve is struck or contused, pain is produced, and it m.ay be of a passing tingling character, or of a far more severe kind. Most people are rendered familiar with these facts, by an occasional blow upon the ulnar nerve, or what is called the “funny bone.” When the