231 TREPHINING FOR HEAD INJURIES. BS sliown by the lapse of an “interval of time” between the accident and the symptoms; and should local paralysis point out its seat; sur- gical interference is called for, and in both simple and compound fractures the trephine may be required in order to elevate the bone. The operation is necessary on account of the brain symptoms present in the case, and has no reference to the character of the local injury,—to the presence or absence of a scalp wound. In compound fracture of the skull, however, associated with depres- in sion and comminution of the bone, both with or without brain sym- comminuted ptoms, the surgeon ought to remove loose pieces of bone, and may elevate the depressed portions when this can be done with the elevator fracture without difficulty, as splintered bone is always a dangerous body when remove in contact with the dura mater. ^d derate When the brain is injured the same course should be followed, the greatest care being observed not to add to the irritation by any rough manipulation. Should difficulty be felt, however, in removing bone it had better be left in sit'd rather than by interference incur any extra risk of injuring the brain or its membranes. Should there he, on the removal of bone, severe haemorrhage from a meningeal artery, the piece should be left; and should this practice fail to arrest the bleeding, a small piece of sponge inserted beneath the bone may succeed, or the application of a pair of spring forceps may be called for. It is not often, however, that such a complication is met with. In all cases of punctured fracture of the skull trephining should be resorted to. It thus appears that in simple or compound uncomminuted depressed General fracture from a local injury no operative interference is called for, summary unless associated with marked symptoms of compression of the brain, interference or extravasation of blood between the bone and the dura mater. In compound comminuted fracture, also iu punctured fracture, with or without symptoms of braiu compression, it is wise to elevate the bone and remove all fragments. In other cases, as in fracture of the base, no surgical interference can be justified. Did space permit, many instances might be quoted to illustrate these poin:s. Cases of fracture of the skull with depressed bone, in which recovery has taken place, are numerous; indeed, it is most remarkable how much depression of the bone may exist without giving rise to brail symptoms, and I am almost tempted to believe that depressed bone by itself never gives rise to marked symptoms of compression, aud when these are present haemorrhage exists with it. Many cases might also be quoted illustrating the value of sur- Cases in gical interference in compound fractures with depression ; I give the ®lucidation. following: Compound fracture of skull with depression from local injury. A feeling of permanent weight on the head was the only sym- ptom, which was at once relieved by removal of the bone, aud recovery followed. Compound fracture of skull with depressed bone from local injury. Constant vomiting, and pain in the head which was relieved at once by removal of the bone; the patient recovering on the fourth day. Compound fracture of skull with depressed bone from local injury. Persistence of symptoms of oppressed braiu. Elevation of depressed bone; and rapid recovery. ^