AFFECTIONS OF EYELIDS. 307 ■ Ulcers.—Simple ulcers, venereal sores (chancres), sj^philitlc, and Ulcers, cancerous ulceration, are sometimes met with. The first three require to be treated on general medical principles; the last hy operation, if the disease has not proceeded too far. Phthiriasis.—The pediculus puhis (crab louse) is sometimes found Lice, amongst the eyelashes close to the margin of the lids. The edges of the lids appear to be covered with scabs and crusts somewhat resem- bling tinea; ou close examination the insects themselves will he dis- covered adhering closely to the margin of the lids, their eggs being attached to the lashes near their bases. Tbeatment.—The daily use of some kind of mercurial preparation, none being better than the Ung. Hydrarg. Ammoniatum. Paralysis of the orbicularis muscle occurs in some cases of facial Affections of paralysis; there is inability to close the eye, the lower lid falls aw'ay from the globe, there is considerable collection of lachrymal secretion at the inner canthus, and constant w'atering of the eye consequent on the displacement of the lower tear punctum. Treatment.—General medical treatment should be adopted. Spasm of the orbicularis muscle may occur from long-continued into- Spasm, lerance of light, consequent on affections of the cornea. Treatment must be directed against the corneal affection. {See Diseases of the Cornea.) Spontaneous twitching, more especially of the lower lid, popularly known as “live blood,” is met with in soide cases of hypermetropia, or in persons whose digestions are out of order; it is very probably a symptom of undue contraction of the ciliary muscle. Treatment.—Correction of existing hypermetropia, instillation of atropine, and attention to the general health. Inflammation of the eyelids may occur during or after acute diseases Inflammation (measles, scarlatina, &c.), in the course of erysipelas, as the result of ®yGida. injuries, or in connection with severe inflammation of neighbouring parts, e.ff. purulent ophthalmia. The swelling and redness are usually considerable, and the eye cannot be opened; the inflammation generally ends in resolution, but may (especially if it result from measles, scarlatina, &c.) go on to the formation of abscess, or even to sloughing of the skin. Treatment.—Locally, fomentations wdth hot wmter or decoction of poppy heads; if an abscess form, it should be opened—preferably through the conjunctiva. The patient’s general health should also be attended to. Stye (“ hordeolum”) is a small red and painful swelling situated on Stye, the outer surface of the lid, or near its margin, and consists in a circumscribed inflammation of the lid, dependent on morbid change in the Meibomian glands. Styes generally occur in weakly delicate persons; several may appear simultaneously, or there may be a suc- cession of them; they give rise to considerable irritation and are often extremely painful. The inflammation usually goes on to suppu- ration. Treatment.—Fomentations, poultices, the administration of tonics, and good living. When pus has formed, the little tumours should be opened. Tinea (ophthalmia tarsi). Patients sufl’ering from tinea present themselves w'ith yellowish-