510 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC. Fig. 174. Objects. Mode of operation. Use of pins. Use of sutures. Hainsby’s truss. The surgeon has two main objects in view in the operation, viz. to pare the edges of the fissure, and to adapt them, so as to render the deformity as slight as possible. But before this an important prelimi- nary step demands attention, on which the success of the case materially rests, and that is, the free separation of both sides of the lip from the alveoli, and, when the nostril is widely expanded, the free separation of the ala nasi from the bone; the object of this step being to allow the soft parts to move freely over the bones and to be brought the more readily into apposition. Some save the true frsenum and divide all other adhesions; but from my experience, I see no necessity for this practice. To pare the edges of the cleft, the knife should be employed; such an instrument making a cleaner section than scissors, and this cleanness of the incision is a point of importance. With respect to the form of incision, numbers have been devised, but most surgeons fall back upon the old-fashioned straight one, commencing at the apex of the cleft and ending at its free border, care being taken to cut off a good piece. The plan I now always follow when the knife reaches the red border of the lip, is to turn its edge obliquely towards the cleft, thereby saving a portion of the mucous covering of the lip, and lessening materially the notch in it (Fig. 173). The incision then having been made, and any bleeding vessel twisted, the surgeon should proceed to adjust the parts, and he had better com- mence at the free margin. When pins are used they should be fine, with flat heads, and one should be introduced about a third of an inch from the margin of the wound and brought out just under the mucous lining of the lip, reintro- duced on the opposite side and passed through the lip. The edges can then be brought together by means of a twisted suture, care being taken to adapt accurately the parts at the red margin of the lip. If this end be attained, the second and third pins should be inserted above, one close to the nostril, the second between the two, and both fastened separately. If the interrupted silk, gut, or horse- hair suture be employed instead of pins, a practice I greatly prefer, having given up pins in simple cases, it is wise to introduce a needle as the first pinto adjust the parts, and then insert the second and third stitches, putting in afterwards the marginal suture by simply drawing the needle that had been introduced as a piu through the flaps. In some cases, it is serviceable to insert a fourth suture into the red border of tbe lip itself. After the operation Hainsby’s truss should be employed when possible (Fig. 174). It keeps the parts well together and prevents any traction upon the wound. It is an invaluable instrument, inien it cannot be obtained the cheeks should be well drawn forward and held by some good Hainsby’s truss. plaster applied either from ear to ear or from the temple on one side beneath the chin to the temple on the Fig. 173. Operation for single liarebp.