323 AFFECTIONS OP THE IKIS AND CHOEOID. If its capsule has been lacerated, however, it will become opaque, and if not extracted will gradually be removed by absorption. A lens displaced into the vitreous chamber will very probably act as a foreign body, and set up glaucomatous changes, in which case it should be removed at all risks; but if it produces no irritation is best left alone. A lens displaced beneath the conjunctiva may also be left to itself. Cataract will be considered in the section on operations. THE IRIS AND CHOROID. Congenital anomalies.—Coloboma signifies a cleft condition of the iris Coloboma. or choroid, dependent on failure of closure of the foetal fissure. In the iris it occurs as a deficiency of the lower segment, appearing as if iridectomy bad been performed downwards. In the choroid it is seen (on examination with the ophthalmoscope) as a brilliant white figure, commencing at the optic disc, and continuing downwards and for- wards for a variable distance towards the ciliary processes, through which, in extreme cases, the cleft may extend, and be even continuous ■with a similar deficiency of the iris. In the Albino the pigment of the iris and choroid is absent to a The albino, greater or less extent, and with the ophthalmoscope the fundus of the eye appears of a yellowish-white colour. Irideremia, or congenital absence of the iris, is occasionally observed. Iridercmia. Persistence of the pupillary membrane.—Small portions of the Persistence membrane which at a period of foetal life covered the pupil occa- pupillary sionally remain, and may he seen as one or more fine threads, somewhat ™®’“''rai\e. resembling cobwebs, passing across the pupillary area, and attached at either end to the anterior surface of the iris, near the margin of the pupil. Anomalies of colour.—The iris of one eye may be brown, that of its Anomalies of fellow being blue, or differences in colour may occur in different parts colour, of the same iris. Tremulous iris (iridodonesis) signifies a tremulous condition of the Tremulous iris, which shakes about as the eye is moved. This condition is met hia- with when the iris has lost the support of the crystalline lens, when the vitreous humour is abnormally fluid, or the iris totally paralysed. The term should, strictly speaking, be applied only to cases Paralysis of where the iris is tremulous, all its proper movements being destroyed uris. and the pupil of moderate size; but it is often used in the condition of dilatation of the pupil met with in some cases of paralysis of the third nerve; in which, however, only the circular fibres are affected. Mydriasis signifies abnormal dilatation of the pupil; Myosis, abnormal contraction. Tumours seldom originate in the iris itself, but its structure often Tumours of becomes implicated by growths commencing in deeper parts of the iris, globe {see Tumours of Eyeball); instances, however, of malignant growths, dermoid and simple cysts, and of the cysticercus, have been met with in the iris. Inflammation of the Iris (Iritis). Causes. Local.—Irritation from foreign bodies in the conjunctival sac or cornea; friction of the cornea by granular lids or inverted lashes; inju- Causes.