ON PAKASITES. 184 Treatment. Sand-fleas. Hydatid. Symptoms negative. Treatment, previously. The bleb contains sero-purulent fluid, and the surgeon, in order to find the worm, should cut the raised cuticle ofir. “ There will then be seen protruding from a little hole in the centre of the denuded cutis one or more inches of the worm of the size and colour of vermi- celli or of a wax match. The surgeon now makes a small quill-like roll of adhesive plaster, rolls the worm around it, and gently draws as much as will come without the risk of breaking; and this is repeated day after day, till at last the tail, which ends in a small hook, comes wriggling out, and the case is at an end.” (Druitt, ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Jan. 3, 1874.) Under these circumstances a rapid cure takes place. Should the worm break, a subcutaneous abscess is almost sure to form higher up; and when this is opened a loop of the worm can most likely be got out on a probe, and so be extracted as before. At times no bleb forms, but merely a subcutaneous abscess. In excep- tional cases more than one worm may exist. Druitt quotes a case in which nineteen had been extracted. Considerable constitutional disturbance often attends these local changes. Chigoe, Chigger, or Gigger, or Sand-flea.—This is found in the West Indies and in South America, but the impregnated female only infects man. It makes its way beneath the nails or between the toes by means of its long proboscis, and, having gained an entrance, rapidly increases to a white globular vesicle the size of a pea. Some local irritation attends its presence. To prevent trouble, the insect should be carefully turned out of its bed by dilating the orifice through which it entered with a needle, care being observed not to rupture the globular vesicle which contains the ova, for if these escape into the cellular tissue the accident is often followed by tedious suppuration and ulceration. The echinococcus or hydatid, the larva of the tsenia echinococcus, is a common entozoon in the human subject, and it may exist as a micro- scopical object, or as a cyst of many inches in diameter. It has highly elastic laminated walls, lined with a granular layer, and it is usually en- closed in the parts of the body infected by it in a distinct capsule, formed by exudation into and the consolidation of the surrounding tissue. It contains a clear, watery, non-albuminous fluid, in which at times float some tsenia heads or scolices, the so-called echinococci, or, in which are found the booklets which surround the head. These hydatids are met with in any part of the cellular tissue of the body—in the lungs, liver, abdominal cavity, pelvis, and even in the bones—a specimen exists at Guy’s in which the spinal column was so affected. I have seen them turned out of the breast, tongue, thyroid gland, pelvis, vagina, uterus, thorax, and bladder, and have removed a cyst containing them from the muscles of the neck, axilla, and thigh, as well as having treated many also in the liver. At times an acephalocyst contains many secondary cysts. I removed a basinful from one occupying the pelvis, and they were of all sizes (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. xvii). Hydatid tumours are to be recog- nised by negative symptoms; they appear as tense, globular, elastic swellings in a part, and give rise only to such symptoms as are to be explained mechanically by their presence; when dead they give rise to suppuration. Treatment.—This must vary with the position, size, and growth of the hydatid tumours. When the parasite occupies some position in the