557 DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. I health), or save them from the sometimes serious local complications which may attend tooth disease. Nor will he be able to diagnose the II true nature of certain tumours and cysts of the jaws, or to attach i, the proper importance to the teeth as the possible cause of neuralgia of the head and face, and of more remote nervous affections. In the following pages only a sketch of this branch of surgery is aimed at, and the reader is referred for details to the excellent ‘Dental Surgery’ by the Messrs. Tomes, and to the interesting pages of Mr. Salter’s work, ‘ Dental Pathology and Surgery.’ The various parts of our subject may, with advantage, be discussed in two main divisions. In tbe first section will be considered the defects in structure and abnormalities in form which may arise during a tooth’s development, together with irregularities in its placement. In the second section will be considered the diseased conditions to which a fully formed tooth is liable, after it has assumed its destined position in the mouth. The effect which disease or malposition of a tooth may have on the structures immediately around it, and on the general health, will also be noted. That a clear idea of these subjects may be obtained, some points in a tooth’s development, structure, and connection with surrounding parte must be borne in mind. Description of a Tooth—its Development and Connections. A perfected human tooth (see accompanying illustration. Fig. 237) The relation may be described as consisting of an unyielding case of dentine or ivory, enclosing a highly sensitive vascular pulp; the portion of this case that forms the crown of the tooth is pro- tected by a covering of an extremely hard substance, “ enamel,” which, be- coming lessened in thickness as it ex- tends down the sides of the crown, finally terminates at the neck of the tooth; the portion of the case that forms the root or roots is covered by "crusta petrosa,” or tooth bone, and is implanted in the alveolar portion of the jaw the crusta petrosa is covered externally by a sensitive and vascular membrane, “ the alveolo-den- tal membrane,” or “ periodontum;” this membrane invests the root of the tooth and lines the bony socket, and is besides intimately connected with the dentinal pulp at the apex of the root, and with the gum also where the latter structui’c encircles the neck of ! the tooth. Fig. 237. of the several tooth structures to each other. Represents a vertical section through a lower molar tooth, showing its dif- ferent component structures, and its connection with parts arounA Through the foramen at the end of the root blood-vessels and nerves Vascular and pass for the supply of the dentinal pulp, while other nerves derived nerve supply, from the same source (viz. the second division of the fifth in the case