Points to be attended to in tapping. Seton. Injection. Extirpation. Treatment of thyroid cysts. Ncevi may degenerate into cysts. On mucous cysts. Ranula. lOi TUMOUES. duced into the cyst after it has heen opened at a dependent point, and then made to traverse the cyst, possibly beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle to the opposite side. The pilot trocar should then be removed, the drainage tube passed through the canula, and the canula taken away, the two ends of the tubing being fastened together to prevent its slipping out. I have treated many cases of deep cervical cysts in this manner with success. The great point to attend to is the free escape of all pus and cyst contents; if air gets in, let the opening be free enough for it to pass out. Should fcetor appear, the cyst should be washed out daily with Iodine lotion, Coudy’s fluid, or some other disinfectant. As the cyst contracts the tube may be removed, but so long as any cavity remains, it should be left. The passage of a seton through the cyst is another method which may be adopted, and this is probably more suitable for small than for large cysts. Injecting the cyst with iodine is a third method which has proved successful, though it is as dangerous as any other, and not more successful. Extirpation of any large cervical cyst is a plan of treatment which should not be entertained, it is fraught with danger and difficulties. Thyroid cysts may he tapped in the same way as the cervical, this simple operation being often successful for a long period, and at times permanently so. When more active treatment is called for, the injection of one or two drachms of the compound tincture of iodine or alcohol may be employed, according to the size of the cyst. When a Mood cyst has been tapped, the flow of blood will usually cease on the removal of the canula; and the tapping may cure it. In the cysts over the thyroid cartilage a puncture may be made, but when the fluid re-collects or is of a grumous kind an incision into the cyst in the median line appears the best practice. I have done this on several occasions with success, leaving a very slight scar. The treatment of cysts and tumours of the thyroid will, however, receive attention in another chapter. The student should remember that nsevi, when they degenerate, com- monly show cysts in their structure (Fig. 141); these are, however, usually clustered together in a cutaneous or subcutaneous group. When they appear in the neck they might be mistaken for one or other of the cysts already alluded to. This mistake will be prevented by remembering the fact that they do occur, and by the history of the case. Mucous cysts are found wherever mucous glands exist, and are caused by some obstruction to the escape of the gland contents. They contain highly tenacious mucus-like liquid albumen. They appear on the mucous membrane of the lips as labial cysts, and are small, tense, globular^ painless swellings. They are found within the cheeks, upon the gum, particularly of the upper jaw and antrum, and very commonly beneath the tongue, as sublingual mricous cysts. Such cysts have been usually described as cases of “ ranula.” They are now known to be due to obstruction of the ducts of Kivini’s mu- cous glands and are not necessarily connected with the salivary organs (Fig. 191). Such a cyst may develope about the larynx, and cause obstruction, and such has been found in the oesophagus. They are common also in the labia pudendi, and also in the vagina. As labial and vaginal mucous cysts they appear as tense, globular tumours