MICEOSCOPICAL ANATOMY OF TUMOUES. 137 SARCOMA. Fig. 29. The schematic figure (29) is composed of accurate drawings of portions of the several kinds of sarcoma named, but they are gathered together in a diagrammatic way, the forms being graduated into each other as they are when found side by side in the same tumour. You meet, indeed, with all gradations of intermediate forms; for although, as a general rule, one kind of sarcomatous tissue prevails in a tumour, it is far from unfrequent to have more than one of the kinds present together, the characters of each changing into those of the other. The distinctive histological character of sarcoma is the possession of a stroma between the cells, an atmosphere of intermediate matter which surrounds each and is between them all; the qualities of this intermediate or “ intercellular ” matter determine the kind of sar- coma, as in the class of connective tissues whose developmental stages the several kinds of sarcoma closely resemble. The class of connective tissues includes the several kinds of texture whose office in the body is passively mechanical, either in serving as adjuncts to the muscular system or by filling up interstices between organs of the body or by entei’ing into textures to support their component parts, blood- vessels, &c. Those connective tissues which penetrate into any of the organs of the body are modified in consistence and in arrangement of their elements according to the requirements of the organ. Thus, in I the brain the connective tissue, called Neuroglia, is very delicate and soft, and has scarcely any distinctness. Also the connective tissue w'hich enters into the lymphatic glands becomes reduced to very soft fibrillar matter between the lymph-cells. In these instances, and in others, the connective tissue thus comes to have peculiarities and to constitute strongly marked varieties. Yet all connective tissues possess this com- mon feature in their elementary structural composition—that they are made up of cellular bodies between which their proper substance forms an intercellular matter. The relation of sarcoma to the connective class of tissues appears to be this, that when one of these tissues is produced very rapidly it has no time for its intercellular matter to acquire the proper characters, and so remains indeterminate, while it also is small in quantity, the cells greatly preponderating. Thus, any of the normal connective tissues may produce by rapid development a tumour of sarcous tissues I or sarcoma (the name is well chosen, aap^, which equals caro or our ► wordjiesh, means commonly any soft animal substance, not blood nor i bone). Thus it follows that there are several kinds of sarcoma, accord- f ing to the tissues from which they are developed. The principal i of these are seen in the above schematic figure. The round-celled I kinds generally arise from lymph-gland, or neuroglia, or mucous tissue; hence they are common in myxo- or glio- or lympho-sarcoma. E The spindle-celled kinds arise from connective, fibrous, or bony tissue, I and hence are most common in fibro-sarcoma or osteo-sarcoma. MYXOMA. Pig. 30. The name myxoma is given to all tumours of connective-tissue type ) (not epithelial) which contain mucus or mucin in their intercellular