?! 1 DISLOCATION OF THE JAW. 551 stunted development of the jaw, exhibiting itself in marked shortening i of the chin, and in an oblique direction of the front teeth." Treatment.—Where the cause is in the joint and cannot he removed. Treatment of ,, I as can dead bone, the surgeon may attempt to break up the adhesions ° ,| by forcibly opening the mouth under chloroform, or divide the bone ^ || below the joint. When due to cicatrices and nodular plastic matter, I little good has ever been derived from their division although in the case [ previously alluded to the prospects of a good result are satisfactory. j Esmarch,of Kiel, in a paper ‘ On the Treatment of Closure of the Jaws from Cicatrices,’ 1860, has, however, described an operation for the for- ; mation of a new joint in these cases, such operation consisting in a ; removal of a piece of the lower jaw. The Messrs. Henry, C. Heath, 1 ! Mac Coimac, Mason, Lawson, and Annandale in this country have prac- i tised Esnarch’s operation, and the success has been enough to indicate , its great value. It must be mentioned that about the same year Rizzoli, j I of Bologia, performed a somewhat similar operation to Esmarch’s, || i dividing -.he jaw' but not removing any portion of it. i Operatun.—This may readily be done by making an incision along Operation of I the lower border of the jaw, in front of the masseter and raising the , integumeit, completing the operation by removing a wedge of bone, *'**'* ° ' measuringabout an inch above and a half below, with a hand or chain saw. Wlnre only one side of the jaw is affected, it is without doubt the ' best operaion that can be performed, the patients recovering their ^ 1 masticatorj power in tw'O or three weeks. | ] Deformites of the jaws are sometimes seen as a consequence of some Deformities i I disease of he tongue such as hypertrophy, the mechanical pressure of of the jaws. ; i tumours dwing its growth, the evil influence of cicatrices more par- : ticularly ablut the neck and mouth, and various other causes. For these ! I surgery may often do much, but when this fails, the dentist can often I I give relief. 1 have seen the upper jaw in two cases of torticollis nearly I c one inch lessin its vertical diameter than the opposite bone, and I have j S already alludd to a case where the lower jaw' was nearly an inch higher j J than natural to make up for a deficiency in the teeth of the upper jaw j i and which hd existed from childhood. j Dislocation of the Jaw. This may ivolve one or both condyles, two out of every three cases l^islocation of j ! being bilnterl. It may be caused by direct t violence on he jaw, but more frequently 1 by yawning. Sir A. Cooper tells of a case i in a child, whee it was produced by the forcible i introduction c an apple into the mouth, and '■> dentists know of its being produced even by f the extraction if a tooth. In the doule dislocation, the mouth is ' widely open, tb jaw fixed and projecting, the I lips separated,ind, as a consequence, speech i is very difficult Deglutition is much inter- t fered with, ancthe saliva flow's from the open I mouth. In fret of the ear, a marked hollow ' will be perceptile, and above the zygoma, in I the temporal jssa, an undue prominence I (Fig- 228). Auns, of Dublin (‘ Dub. Quart. • Jouni. Med. Sci^ce,’ vol. i), first noticed these 1 symptoms, and r. R. W. Smith Fractures,’ me juw. Fig. 2S28. Varieties and Symptoms of ’ (lonl)le ; dislocation. Dislocation of lower jaw Couper’s case. ‘London Hosp.Rep.,’1864.