TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 448 On direct compression. Flexion of limb. Mode of conducting flexion. cause in case of rapid cure, the clot that has filled the sac must of ne- cessity be soft, and a very little may cause its displacement, and thus interfere with that natural contraction of the fibrin of the blood that is to fill the sac permanently, prevent its dilatation, and cure the dis- ease. At Guy’s Hospital, out of 17 cases of popliteal aneurism consecutively treated by pressure, 11 were cured, and Mr. Holmes informed us in his college lectures, that out of 124 cases so treated in different hospitals, 66 were treated with success, and in 58 without success. Of the latter, in 44, the femoral artery w'as afterwards tied, and in 8 amputation was practised, 5 dying. Death occurred in one case; and in 4 there was no evidence of subsequent treatment. (‘ Lancet,’ December 19, 1874). In the majority of these cases, instrumental pressure was employed, and in some, the treatment was imperfectly carried out. The treatment of aneurism by direct compression next claims atten- tion, and in modern times is known as that jlexion; for there can he little doubt that the modus operandi of flexion in the cure of aneu- rism is mainly due to three conditions, first, to direct compression of the aneurismal tumour itself; secondly, to indirect compression through the medium of the tumour, intercepting either wholly or partially the supply of blood to the sac; and, thirdly, to displace- ment of the clot, as suggested by Holmes, and the consequent obliteration of the mouth of the aneurismal tumour. This mouth may likewise he so situated as to be closed by the bending of the artery—an aneurism in the posterior wall of the popliteal artery being in a far more favorable position for cure than one on the anterior. At the same time we know that forced flexion of a limb is capable of arresting the flow of blood through the healthy artery. In England, Mr. E. Hart demonstrated the success of this method of treatment in the year 1858, although, in 1857, Dr. Maunoir, of Geneva, recorded the first successful casein ‘L’Echo Medicale’ (Neuf- chatel), and, since that time, many surgeons have successfully applied the practice. To carry it out, the limb must be carefully bandaged) from below upwards to the aneurism, and in the case of the popliteal artery the knee should be bent, sufficient force being employed to diminish or arrest the pulsation of the tumour but no more,, some turns of the roller maintaining the limb in this position. The thigh should then be flexed upon the pelvis and the patient turned on his side with the limb resting on a pillow. By this plan the arrest of the circulation through the aneurism may gene- rally be effected, and a cure expected. When the flexion is forced, the patient is too often unable to endure the suffering caused by the position. The plan, however, is so simple, and, when bearable, is so successful, that it should always be attempted w'here it can be applied, and, when unsuccessful, it is almost harmless. To large and rapidly growing aneurisms this method is iuapplica- • ble, and probably dangerous, as it may induce rupture; but when any inflammation or other complication exists it ought not to be employed; nor ought it be persisted in when it is not obviously doing good. Pressure may likewise be used with flexion where the latter is insuf- ficient, many cases having been reported in wdiich success followed tin conjoint means. In one under my care in 18711 cured an aneurism belou