HYDATID TUMOURS. 640 Diiipnosis uf liydiitid tumours. Treatment « hen suppurating. Before suppuration. Case of sudden deat.li alter tapping. fluctuation. The external feel of a hydatid is somewhat peculiar and characteristic. In 1868, I removed with permanent success, an enor- mous hydatid tumour from the abdomen, although apparently not from its cavity, of a lady patient of Dr. Oldham, mt. 35, who was believed to have had ovarian disease (‘Guy’s Hosp. Hep.,’ 1868), while Mr. Spencer Wells records a case in which the hydatids were turned out of the abdominal cavity. Sometimes the hydatid dies without surgical interference, and, as a consequence, severe suppuration is set up with violent constitutional disturbance, which requires surgical aid. Not long since I opened, with marked success, a large abscess over the liver of a boy set. 17, and evacuated a quantity of pus, bearing the peculiar odour of hydatid pus. The abscess clearly came from the liver, and was a suppurating hydatid. The boy previously had suffered from tape worms. In 1869, I had to open freely a suppurating hydatid tumour, which half filled the abdomen of a gentleman, set. 40, who had had it tapped some months before in Australia, and a complete recovery ensued. A quantity of dead hydatid cysts escaped through a large canula that was introduced. The cyst was washed out daily with great benefit. This gentleman is now quite well. I have had at least six other cases in which a like treatment was employed with success, nor have I lost one, although several have had a very narrow escape. The secret of the treatment of suppurating hydatid cysts consists in a free outlet for all purulent and dead hydatid deposits, and the frequent washing out of the suppurating cavity with water containing iodine, Coudy’s fluid, carbolic acid, or creosote, with or without the introduction of a di’ainage tube or elastic catheter. For the operation, a large trocar and canula should be employed—the canula being left in for some days until a good opening is established; it may then be exchanged for an elastic catheter or lai’ge drainage tube. Before suppuration takes place, however, other treatment is appli- cable, such as draining off partially or wholly the fluid contents of the hydatid by means of a very fine trocar and canula. I have performed this operation on many occasions with success, but generally prefer to draw off only a few' ounces of the fluid; clinical experience indicating that by this measure alone the hydatid may be killed, subsequently w’ithering up and ceasing to hurt. Dr. J. Miller, of Tasmania, where this disease is frequent, speaks highly of the use of twenty-grain doses of the bromide of potassium three times a day after the tapping, and Dr. Bird, of Melbourne, combines with it drachm doses of the tincture of kamela. At times, also, cases which have been looked upon as cured are not so, and, after the lapse of years the disease re-appears. When suppuration follows tapping, however, a cure ensues. The operation of simply tapping a hydatid with even the finest instru- ments is not, however, free from danger, for in January, 1877, I tapped a man set. 42, who, with the exception of the hydatid tumour of the liver, was in perfect health, and drew off half a pint of hydatid fluid, having to pei forate the structure of the liver to the depth of an inch to reach the cyst. The operation was not attended by the slightest distress; but on the removal of the needle an agonizing pain attacked the man’s face and jaw'S, accompanied with flushing of the head and neck. This was followed by vomiting, extreme pallor, and stertorous breathing for a minute, followed by death in two minutes. At the necropsy nothing