ENCEPHALITIS. 226 Treatment of encephalitis. Head shaved and raised. Ice to head. Free purging. Enema. Bleeding. Calomel. Blisters. Diet. Best. Compression of brain from local suppuration. extension from without, and the arachnoid, pia mater, and brain conge* cutively in the same way. It is consequently within the reach of sur- gical art, particularly in its early stage. Tebatment.—Acute encephalitis when following a general injury to the brain, for the most part runs such a rapid course that there is little time for treatment to take effect. It attacks patients, moreover, who have been already knocked down by the injury in more ways than one, in whom there is rarely much resisting force, and there is consequently not much chance of success by treatment. The head must, of course, he shaved and raised on a pillow, and ice should he applied to it, for there is no remedy more valuable than the application of ice in traumatic inflammation of the head. The ice when applied in a bag must he broken up into small fragments, while the bag containing it should be large, in order to cover the whole vault of the skull. The ice-cap or india-rubber coil is also good. The cold douche is a powerful remedy and has been highly spoken of. Free purging should then be resorted to, the old dose of calomel mixed with butter introduced into the mouth being probably the best form j or an enema of turpentine or castor oil may be administered. With respect to bleeding, much caution is required. It has been little used of late years in head affections; though in a strong man, when acute encephalitis has come on after a slight injury, it is certainly a sound practice. It should he performed boldly and freely at the early part of the disease, so as to take effect upon the patient—during the state of excitement, before brain oppression has appeared, and effusion taken place. In severe general injuries it is useless. Some employ leeching and cupping on the nape of the neck, and speak highly of the practice. Calomel, given in small and repeated doses to touch the gums, com- bined or not with opium, has its advocates, and patients, doubtless, have recovered under its use. The grey powder in three- or four-grain doses with five grains of Dover’s powder, is a useful combination when delirium is present; and at times larger doses of opium or morphia may be given. Great care, however, must be observed in the use of these drugs, for unless they are carefully given and their effects watched, they are injurious. French surgeons still employ blisters to the scalp, but these cannot he compared in value with the local application of ice in the early stage of the disease. In the chronic stage they may be beneficial. When they are employed they should be applied to the nape of the neck, and where mercury is relied upon, the latter may be used in the form of an ointment to dress the blister. Antimony is still given by some surgeons of emi- nence. I have no experience of its use, and therefore cannot recommend it. When recovery takes place—a rare result—the patient must be cautioned as to the future, for any excess of diet or of mental or physical exercise may produce a relapse. The greatest quiet ought to be observed for many weeks, and the patient should live on the simplest food. Milk diet and animal broths are sufficient for some time, solid animal food being taken with great caution. Stimulants should only be adminis- tered if the patient’s powers are feeble. When indications of compression of the brain follow these inflamma- tory symptoms, surgical treatment may be called for, but only when strong evidence of local compression exists. f I i