333 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE. may take place even though all perception of light have been lost for some days. In performing iridectomy for glaucoma we must take care to remove the iris well down to its insertion and to e.vcise a good broad piece {see p. 364); merely cutting away a portion of the iris near the margin of the pupil does no good. The operation is easy enough of performance in cases of acute glaucoma, but in those of old standing the structures become so rotten as to render it anything hut simple. In cases of glaucoma where for any reason an operation does not Medical seem advisable we must do our best to give relief by medical treatment, treatment. The means which will he found most useful are the application of seda- tive fomentations, administration of opium, and the local abstraction of blood by leeches or the artificial leech. Atropine should not be used in glaucoma, as it causes increased vas- Atropine, cularity of the globe, and with it augmentation of tension. Its appli- cation is recommended in most works on ophthalmic subjects, but it does more harm than good. THE EETINA AND OPTIC NEEVE. Vision.—Space will not allow of a detailed account of all the anomalies Vision, of vision which may be met with. Before the introduction of the ophthalmoscope all cases of want of sight occurring without cause apparent to the unaided eye were collected together into two classes hearing the names of “ amblyopia and amaurosis.” To the former were referred all cases where vision was much im- Amblyopia paired but not entirely lost, to the latter cases in which not even per- ^'“1 a®au- ception of light remained. But now that the ophthalmoscope has come so generally into use, making the interior of the globe as accessible to our sight as the exterior, we have come to refer “ amblyopia and amaurosis” to their proper causes, and the terms have fallen into com- parative disuse. For instance, if iu a case of want of sight we find on ophthalmoscopic examination that there is haziness of the vitreous, inflammation of the retina, &c., we do not say (as formerly) that the patient is “ amblyopic,” but that he is sufiering from opacity of the vitreous, retinitis, &c. Again, in cases of total blindness, the ophthal- moscope will in all probability detect atrophy of the optic nerve or other lesion, and instead of saying that the patient is “ amaurotic” we say that he is suffering from atrophy of the optic nerve, &c. The terms ‘‘amblyopia and amaurosis” may, however, still be used in some rare cases where there is a partial or complete loss of sight, associated with an apparently healthy condition of all the ocular structures. Hypersemia of the retina occurs from overstrain of the eyes in doing Hypermmia near work (especially in hypermetropic or astigmatic persons), or from retina, constantly looking at bright light; the disease is not uncommon amongst engine-drivers and others who work over a blazing fire. The patient complains of some dimness of vision, and a feeling of fulness and discomfort in the eyes. On examination with the ophthal- moscope the retinal vessels, both arteries and veins, will be found increased in size, and a greater number of each will he visible than iu the healthy retina. This form of hypermmia may be described as “ active j” another Active and passive bypcrtemia.