AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 396 Appearances. Causes. been usually severe, subsides wlien the purulent discharge shows itself, or soon afterward.s, and the patient feels lighter and freer of the sen^ sation of “ numbness ” or “ fulness ” of which he before complained. A favorable termination without any treatment may now take place, though more frequently the affection becomes chronic and the patient suffers from recurrent attacks on being affected by any exciting cause. In examining the ear it is not atways easy to arrive at a satisfactory diagnosis on account of the painful swelling of the canal, which is particularly sensitive about the middle third, and resents the in- troduction of a speculum. When you are able to introduce the speculum sufficiently well to see the inner part of the meatus you may . find a mass of moist or macerated white epidermal lamellae obstruct- ■ ing your view of the membrane, necessitating the careful use of the ' forceps or injection of warm water for their removal. Having re- moved these and obtained a view of the membrana tympani, you find in those cases in which that membrane is affected (and it is rare that you are consulted before it is so), the vessels of the membrane increased in number and size and fully injected, or, if the case has reached a further stage, the single vessels are no longer visible, and the whole ' has a resemblance to a red blennorrlioeic conjunctiva. The natural angle formed by the skin of the external meatus and its continuation with the dermoid layer of the membrana tympani is obliterated, or nearly so, by the pressure of the exudation inside the cutaneous tis- sues. But the exudation may be so great and may have so narrowed the canal of the meatus that only a small part of the membrane can be 1 seen, its appearance depending upon the part seen and the stage of the * affection. The acute stage being neglected, it passes gradually into 1 the chronic form, in which there is generally little swelling of the meatus, possibly here and there slightly macerated or pus-covered spots which bleed easily on being acted on by the speculum, or brown, badly ’ smelling crusts standing upon half-dried secretions. The amount of secretions vary from a moisture discernible at the external opening of the meatus to three or four ounces daily of a high-.smelling yellow yellow discharge, and changes by the seasons and other influences. The alarming results of the affection are dependent upon the con- tinuance of this otorrhoea, wffiich, if of long standing, may cause opacity or thickening of the membrane, polypi, maceration of the ; surrounding tissues, with ulceration of the membrane and its conse- ' quences, inflammatory and purulent processes in the dura mater and its sinuses. These latter are especially frequent in children in whom the conditions for the transmission of such processes are easy. The diagnosis of this diffuse inflammation of the meatus from that of furuncle of the meatus is made by means of a speculum in which a small mirror placed at the end of the instrument may be revolved so as to give the observer a reflected image of the different parts of the meatus in succession, or by means of Blake’s small mirrors; or should neither of these be admissible by the contraction of the meatus, by the moist appearance of the dermoid covering of the membrana tympani in furuncle, the same layer in otitis externa having the appearance or the rest of the meatus. The causes of inflammation are the passing of any acute or chronic exanthemata to the meatus, irritation or injuries to the ear, as by the application of heat or spirits to the meatus, the prolonged use of m-