25 SINUS AND FISTULA. tract with which the fistula communicates, the discharge tending to keep the fistula open. The external opening of a fistula or sinus presents very different External appearances. It may appear as a direct or as a valvular opening, depressed, or raised. When leading down to a foreign body or to ® "■ bone, the external orifice will be surrounded by weak granulations. Sometimes it may scab over for a time, and then reopen by the force of the retained fiuid. The internal opening of a fistula mostly appears as a defined Internal r o orifice of orifice. ^ , 1 , . i.1 sinuses. Of sinuses or incomplete fistulm, abscess is the most common cause; the external communication failing to close from some defect in the healing power of the part; from some interference with the reparative process; from the constant discharge of pus, which has not a sufficiently free vent; from muscular action, which forbids that amount of rest of the part which is required for its repair; or, lastly, from the presence of some foreign body introduced from without, from dead bone or cretaceous inflammatory product from within. The TEEATMENT of the different forms of fistulte is given in the Treatment of chapters devoted to the special organs that are involved. In a general fistula, way, however, it may be asserted that so long as the cause of the fistula exists, repair cannot go on; so that, in urinary fistula, when stricture Remove is the cause, the stricture must be treated before the fistula. In anal cause, fistula, when the action of the sphincter ani forbids repair, its action must be paralysed. In faical fistula, when obstruction to the bowel is present, the obstruction must be removed. In salivary fistula, the salivary duct must find a natural outlet before its unnatural orifice can be expected to close. When any foreign body, tooth or dead bone, is keeping the sinus open, it must be removed. Wlien a suppurating cavity at one end of the fistula continues to discharge, means must be taken to close it. When these objects have been achieved attention may be directed to the fistula or sinus itself, and various are the means that can be employed for their cure. Pressure in recent sinuses, to keep the parts in apposition, by means Pressure, of pads, strapping, or bandages, is sometimes of use, the muscles that move the part being kept absolutely at rest thereby. In stumps, aud after mammary abscesses, this practice is very beneficial. Injection of some stimulating fluid, such as the preparations of Injections, iodiue (either the tincture alone or diluted with one or two parts of water) will sometimes set up a healthy action; for the same pur- pose a seton has been used, and of all setons the small drainage tuie is Seton. the best, or a narrow coil of rolled gutta-percha skin. The cautery is sometimes of great use, and the galvanic is to he preferred It can Cautery, be accurately applied to the exact spot, and its heat maintained for any required time. It is generally most useful in small fistulse. Laying open the sinus is, however, as a rule, the best plan, dividing Laying open it from end to end, and keeping the sides asunder to allow of its fistula, healing from below. When done with a knife the incision is to be made upon a grooved probe or director which has been previously in- troduced through the sinus. This, however, may often be done to great advantage with the wire of the galvanic cautery. When the cautery is used, the wire should be passed through the sinus on the grooved direc- tor, or threaded in an eyed probe; the surgeon then holding the two