HARKLIP. 509 Fig. 172. This affection is more frequent on the left than on the right side of the mouth, and is more common in males than females, while in Fig. 170. Fig. 171. Double harelip. the more complicated this disproportion becomes more striking. Thus, in an analysis of cases to be found in my ‘ Lettsomian Lectures on the Surgical Diseases of Children,’ 1863, four fifths of the had cases were in boys, those of double harelip almost always being found in the male sex. Treatment.—When ought a child with harelip to be operated upon ? Treatment. Sir W. Fergusson says, “ I am of opinion that the earlier the operation is Time for performed the better—assuredly before teething;” and the majority of operation, surgeons would support this opinion. Judging from my own experience I am not disposed to coincide altogether with this opinion, for in my analysis of cases at Guy’s Hospital, a larger number of failures followed the operation when performed during the first few weeks of life than after the third month. In healthy infants, it is probable that success may attend the operation whenever undertaken ; but in the more feeble it is equally probable that success will be more certain at a later than at a very early period. Under these circumstances I always advise the operation to be postponed until after the third month; that is, when no necessity exists to hurry on the operation such as inability to take food, &c. On account of this last-named condition, I have operated with complete success on the fifth day. The position of the patient is important. If an infant, the whole How to hold body and arms should be bound round with a good towel, and the tke patieut. head fixed by the hands of an assistant placed on either side. The child should be firmly held in a nurse’s lap, in the sitting posture (Fig. 172). If an older child, the semi-recumbent position should be chosen with the head raised on a pillow and fixed as directed above. Under these circum- stances chloroform should always be administered. When given to an infant, the head may be laid on the surgeon’s knees, the body on the nurse’s. The operator may sit or stand behind the patient when the recumbent position is selected, or, at one side, if the patient be sitting. The operation.—Anmsthetics may be given without fear in such cases, although in uncom- plicated examples the operation is so expedi- tiously performed as not to render it essential. I operate as frequently without as with it.