324 IRITIS, Symptoms. Varieties of iritis. Simple iritis. Recurrent iritis. Haziness of cornea. Syphilitic iritis. ries to the iris itself by operations, or accidents, with or without the lodgment of foreign bodies in its substance or on its surface; pres- sure by a swollen crystalline lens, and exposure from perforation of the cornea. Constitutional.—Debility, after acute disease, over-lactation, &c.; certain specific diseases, as syphilis, rheumatism, and gout. Symptoms.—The following symptoms are met with in most cases of iritis; changes of colour, cloudiness and loss of polish of the iris, sluggishness or complete immobility and (as a rule) contraction of the pupil, injection of the ciliary region (ciliary redness), watering of the eye, and impairment of vision. Other symptoms met with occa- sionally are pain, intolerance of light, irregularity in outline of the pupil, inflammatory products—pus or lymph nodules—visible to the naked eye. Three varieties of iritis are commonly met with. 1. Simple iritis. 2. Recurrent or rheumatic iritis. 3. Syphilitic iritis. Simple iritis.—All the more constant symptoms of iritis are present, often accompanied by more or less severe pain. An uncomplicated attack lasts from one to two weeks or longer, and usually ends in resolution, the iris quite recovering its normal condition, but a few adhesions may form between the iris and lens-capsule (posterior synechiae). In this as well as in the other forms of iritis, however, the inflammation may run on to the formation of a considerable quantity of new material or into suppuration. Recurrent or rheumatic iritis occurs in persons who are subject to attacks of rheumatism or gout, and also in the children of rheumatic or gouty parents; an attack of this form of inflammation presents all the more constant symptoms of iritis, and has one character peculiar to itself, viz. its tendency to recur, some patients having had as many as twenty or more separate attacks; in some cases the attacks observe a re- markable periodicity, recurring regularly at the same time of year. The inflammation sometimes appears in one eye, sometimes in the other, or perhaps in both, rarely, however, simultaneously, but at short intervals, the second eye becoming affected long before the first has begun to recover. Recurrent iritis is frequently accompanied by more or less haziness of the cornea and aqueous humour. In some cases very severe pain of a dull aching character is experienced in the eye- ball, forehead, side of nose, and temple; in others the attack is most insidious, the patient’s attention not being attracted until a consider- able amount of new material has been thrown out, extensive adhesions formed, the sight of one eye much impaired and the inflammatory action extended to the other. The great feature of this form of iritis is its tendency to recur. The cause of the recurrencies is not very evident; they are probably due primarily to “posterior synechi®,” and are prevented by the performance of iridectomy. All persons, however, who have “ posterior synechia)” are not subject to recurrent iritis; so that in all probability in those who are liable to repeated attacks there is a tendency to the lighting up of inflamma- tion upon very slight provocation, such as the dragging of posterior synechia). Syphilitic iritis is, perhaps, the most common of all the forms. A typical case presents all the constant symptoms of iritis in “ ''“7 marked degree, the zone of ciliary redness being extremely well de-