581 AFFECTIONS OF THE PULP. comfort. In young subjects, when the teeth are much crowded and relatively prominent as compared with those in the lower jaw, it may be desirable to extract the fractured tooth and to train-in the neigh- bouring teeth to occupy its site. Arrested or carbonised decay.—Sometimes in young subjects when Arrested the enamel is lost almost simultaneously over the whole masticating surface of a molar tooth, decay becomes arrested, the exposed dentine assuming a dark mahogany or black colour, and presenting a density which qualifies it for mastication. Such a result may be aided by the rounding-off of projecting enamel edges. Erosion.—Occasionally the enamel and subjacent dentine are gradu- Erosion, ally lost by a process which was called by Hunter “ decay by denuda- tion,” and by recent writers erosion. The surface of the cavity so formed remains hard and polished and often free from discoloration. It is probable that this gradual wasting away of the tooth substance, without any of the ordinary appearances of caries, is due to the com- bined action of chemical solution and friction ; the enamel in the first instance being affected over a comparatively large area, the dentine, when reached, is exposed to friction which prevents its softening. This erosion may affect other parts of a tooth, but usually attacks the labial surface at the neck; frequently many teeth in the same mouth are affected by it, a groove being gradually scooped in the teeth just above the gum until the pulp is exposed. Treatment.—An alkaline mouth wash should be prescribed; hori- Treatment, zontal brushing interdicted, and if the exposed dentine is sensitive either of the solutions mentioned at pgge 577 may be applied to it. In cases admitting of it, stopping should be had recourse to, that the pulp may be preserved from exposure. Affections of the Pulp. An exposed dentinal pulp is subject to mechanical, thermal, and The dental other irritation. The pain produced by such irritation is of a sharp P“*P- lancinating character, sometimes passing away with an ache. Chronic inflammation.—Circumscribed superficial infiaramation with Its various increase of sensitiveness may be developed in the pulp at the point of exposure, and may continue for a long time in an unsuspected cavity, giving rise to refiex pain or (so-called) neuralgia. Ulcerative condition.—The exposed surface of the pulp may take on a secretive action, and the tooth be free from pain as long as the exuded sero-purulent fiuid finds an exit, and the pulp escapes fresh irritation. Acute or general inflammation of the pulp is attended bj’ terrible pain of a violent throbbing character, which, after lasting several hours or days, may cease as suddenly as it began, its cessation be- tokening the death of the pulp. In this case every factor for the production of agonising pain is present, the distensible pulp, largely supplied with nerves, undergoing vascular engorgement within an un- yielding case (closed-in at all parts except at the aperture of exposure, through which it may bulge and suffer further constriction). The t pain is not usually confined to the faulty tooth, but spreads from it ji to the neighbouring teeth and to the side of the face; during the ^ paroxysms the tooth often becomes tender to pressure, owing to a sym- I pathetic irritation of the periodontal membrane. Prompt measures