LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 488 Ligature of tlie middle third of the femoral. Statistics of the operation. Description of the operation. Ligatnrs of the femoral artery in the middle third of its course is a capital operation, and, moreover, a successful one, Norris gives 46 fatal out of 188 operations for aneurism or one fourth of the cases collected from all sources, from John Hunter’s first operation in 1785 down to 1848, and undertaken too under many different conditions. Syme in- forms us that he has had 23 successful cases consecutively, and at Guy’s Hospital during fourteen years, the femoral artery was tied for aneurism 24 times, with only 1 death from pyaemia, and one failure, these cases including 6 in which pressure had been tried and failed. Pres- sure had been employed in 17, and in 11 with success. Mr. Holmes, in his lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1874, moreover, gives some statistics of recent hospital practice, which* possibly places the operation in even a better light, inasmuch as out of 77 cases of popliteal aneurism treated by ligature at once, the deaths were 11, or 14 per cent,, and the failures 15, or 19 per cent.; while in 44 other cases in which the ligature was applied after the treatment by pres- sure had failed, 31 succeeded and 13 failed, or 29 per cent., the mortality in the latter class of cases, as might have been expected, being larger than in the former. I may add, that of 124 cases of popliteal aneurism collected by Mr. Holmes, pressure succeeded in 66, and failed in 58. In 44 of the 58 cases the artery was tied, as seen above, 13 of these dying; and of the remaining 14, amputation was practised in 8, death occurred in 1, while in 4 there was no evidence of subsequent treatment. The operation. To tie the vessel, the limb of the patient should be slightly abducted and rotated outwards; the leg being partially flexed and the knee supported on a pillow. The line of the vessel should then be marked by the eye, and the point at which the ligature is to be applied deter- mined, the lower part of Scarpa’s triangle being the “ point of selec- tion.” (Fig. 156.) An incision about three inches in length must then be made parallel to the vessel dividing the integument and super- ficial fascia down to the deep parts; the course of the superficial veins having previously been ascertained by making pressure upon the saphena vein where it joins the deep femoral, in order to avoid it. If the vein be in the way, the incision can be made by its side, bnt generally it is on the inner side of the wound. The deep fascia may then be divided, and the inner border of the main guide to the artery, the Sartorius muscle, looked for. This is readily recognisable by the course of its fibres downwards and imoards, and underneath this the sheath of the vessel is certain to be found. The muscle having then been gently separated from its attachments by means of the finger and held outwards with a retractor, the sheath will be exposed with the artery in front and vein behind, the long saphenous nerve generally and sometimes a nerve to the vastus internus, lying upon the vessel. The sheath should then be opened with caution and its inner side held tense, an opening being made sufficient to expose the vessel and admit the aneurism needle; moreover care should be taken to keep the end of the needle close to the artery, in order that the vein may not be injured or included in the ligature. The needle ought to be passed from within outwards. The ligature having been passed, the surgeon must satisfy himself that nothing but the artery is surrounded, and that the right vessel has been exposed; he may then tie it, readjust