SERPENT BITES. 70 Mitchell’s account of rattlesnake bites. Prognosis. Appearances alter death. Tlie cobra di capello, rattlesnake, whipcord snake, phoorsa snake are the most venomous. In some cases the poison seems to spend its effects upon the nervous system, killing by convulsions or coma j in others, its local effects are the more important. Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, who has carefully studied the effects of poison by the rattlesnake, states that the bite is sometimes followed by pain of a pricking or burning character, which gradually becomes more intense, also by bleeding, swelling, and discoloration of the injured part and tissues around, these symptoms depending upon the effusion of blood into the cellular tissue. The wounded extremity becomes larger and the pain greater, the skin assuming a mottled marbly aspect. As secondary effects, inflammation and disorganisation of the tissues occur; the inflammation assumes more the character of the phlegmonous erysipelas, and is associated with glandular enlargement and suppuration, followed by gangrene as a common consequence. Great depression of the nervous system and general prostration are the most prominent constitutional symptoms, with profuse cold sweats, vomiting, dyspnoea, and diarrhoea; and jaundice often precedes death. When the dose of the poison is large, or the susceptibilities of the patient acute, death may take place at once from general prostra- tion and local stagnation of blood in the wounded extremity. In the case of a keeper of the London Zoological Gardens, who was bitten in the nose by a cobra death took place in little more than an hour after the infliction of the wound, and half an hour only had elapsed when he was apparently dying, being unable to speak, swallow, or support him- self ; the pupils became dilated, the face livid, the heart’s action feeble, and he was scarcely conscious. Mitchell has recorded a case which proved fatal in five and a half hours. Of others one died comatose, another with dyspnoea and dys- phagia, a third felt sleepy and died without agony. On the other hand, patients at times recover suddenly, even when the symptoms have been severe, as if the poison had suddenly lost its power. More commonly, however, death ensues, and when recovery follows, it is only after severe local suppuration and sloughing, leaving a maimed and useless limb. After death MitcheU found ecchymoses in the thoracic and abdo- minal viscera, the spots containing blood-cells, this exudation being purpuric in its nature, and clearly caused by a want of the normal coagulating power in the blood; this altered condition of the blood indeed is the most common effect of snake poisons, and in some cases it is said to last through life. Hence, in bites from the Indian phoorsa snake, there is said to be a haemorrhagic tendency during life. After death Mitchell could never detect the least alteration in the blood-cells in acute cases, but in exceptional examples of chronic poisoning he found a few globules indented. In chronic cases also, where there has been time for the poison to act upon the blood, the want of coagulating power in the blood is very constant, and putrefactive changes rapidly follow. Dr. Halford, of Melbourne, says he always found the blood after death dark and fluid. It also contained germinal nucleated cells,