LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 48-t Hoemorrliage from the palm of the hand, and its treatment. Ligature of the external iliac artery. Wlien applicable. Statistics of the operation. Course of vessel. Abernethy’s operation. iilnaris, dividing skin, superficial and deep fascia, exposes the vessel, with its vena3 comites, and the nerve on its inner side. A ligature can easily be passed round it. The drawings well illustrate these points. Haemorrhage from the palm of the hand is always alarming and troublesome, more particularly from a punctured wound. In a super- ficial incised wound the vessel may generally be found and ligatured or twisted, but, in the case of a deep wound, it is neither expedient nor justifiable to cut into and explore for such a purpose. When the vessel cannot be tied, a graduated compress may be applied over the wound and the fingers flexed and bound down over a ball or block of wood, the arm being well raised in a vertical position. This dressing should not be undone for at least five or six days. If these means fail, which they rarely do when efficiently employed, the radial and ulnar arteries may be compressed with acupressure needles, and should this prove unsuccessful, the application of a ligature to the brachial artery may be required. In neglected cases where the parts are all infiltrated and boggy, this practice may be called for at once. It is well, however, before resorting to this practice, to try extreme flexion of the forearm upon the arm, with forced supination of the hand, with or without a pad at the bend of the arm; as it is now well knowm, that by this position the circulation through the brachial artery can be completely arrested; indeed, under all circumstances, whether for injury or disease of the arteries of the hand and forearm in which surgical interference is requisite, it would be well to remember this treatment, it being most effective. It should be known, however, that repeated haemorrhage may take place from the palm of the hand from the presence of a sloughing tendon. In illustration of this I may mention a very interesting case I had with Dr. Bunny, of Newbury, where a gentleman, set. 33, had his middle finger bent back so forcibly by a cricket ball as to cause rupture of the integument in front of the extreme joint, and laceration of the flexor tendons of the finger about the wrist. Suppuration and sloughing of the tendons followed, attended by repeated attacks of palmar haemorrhage, which ceased at once on the removal of the dead tendons. ligature of Arteries of the lower Extremity. The External Iliac Artery. This operation may be required for aneurism of the common femoral artery, or for any other affection in which it is necessary to an’est the flow of blood through the lower extremity. It should not, however, be performed for any disease unless pressure of the artery, digital or in- strumental, has proved ineffectual or is inapplicable, for Mapother (‘ Dub. Med. Press,’ 1865), Eck (‘ St. Bai’thol. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1866), and Hilton (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1869) have all recorded instances of cure of inguinal aneurism by these means. The operation of ligature is, however, a successful one, and Norris and Cutter give forty-seven fatal cases out of 153 (‘Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,’ 1847 and 1864). I have per- formed it on six occasions, and in all with success. The course of the vessel is clearly indicated by a line drawn from the left side of the navel where the aorta bifurcates, to the middle of Poupart’s ligament— the upper third of this line corresponding to the common iliac, and the lower two thirds to the external. Abernethy, in 1796, was the first to ligature the vessel. The in-