INJXJEIES AND DISEASES OP THE YEINS. 501 The causes oi varicose disease of the vein are obscure. Surgeons Causes of of the past regarded such affections as the invariable result of some varicose obstruction to the venous circulation, such as prolonged standing, the presence of abdominal or pelvic tumours—pathological, fsecal, or foetal; patients of a relaxed and feeble habit naturally suffering more than the robust; and, in, a measure, doubtless their opinions were correct. Mr. Herapath, of Bristol, maintained that the cause of varix was the narrowing of the saphenous opening of the thigh, and cases are on record where its enlargement proved of value; facts however, are wanting to support this view. General testimony also admits that this disease is as common in the higher as in the lower ranks of life ; and in women as in men; that it is as frequent on the right as the left side, and more frequently on beth ; that it is a disease of the young as much as of the middle-aged; that it is met with in the strong and healthy as well as in the feeble and cachectic; in fact, it is found under every condition of life and in every variety of subject. Some evidence exists that gout and hereditary predisposition are efficient causes, with local injuries and prolonged muscular exertion. The symptoms vary according to the place of its origin. When it Symptoms, commences in the venous capillaries—its common seat in women—it appears as a fine capillary injection giving an arborescent appearance to the skin, with more or less congestion; and, as it e.xtends, the larger venous trunks become involved, the main trunks being rarely affected. When it originates in a large trunk, the varix may appear as a fusi- form enlargement, or a simple dilatation of the whole length of the vein. In some there will be thinning of the venous coats, in others a thickening, whilst in a third class, one part will appear thin and another thick. Again the affected vein becomes tortuous and extreme degree, and it is far from unusual to find it the diameter of a finger (Fig. 162). The valves of the veins under these circumstances are clearly lost, not, however, from a yielding, due to backward pressure of the column, but from their action being rendered imperfect by the dilatation of the vein behind; the “valve cusps being unable to meet and close the canal shrink and atrophy.” As the disease progresses the tissues around the affected vein become gradually absorbed; the skin is thinned and even the bone grooved; the skin indeed becoming so thin as even to rupture, and, a fatal hajmorrhage is far from being a rare 0 result. At Guy’s during the last few years several 01 cases of this sort have taken place. Subcutaneous il rupture of the vein may at times occur, of which I > saw a severe instance in a man set. 62, in 1858. More frequently, however, the soft parts around the a diseased vein thicken or infiame. They thicken from uf a kind of passive exudation into the cellular tissue, ) the result of impeded venous circulation, and give (rise to a slightly anasarcous condition of the part, which in chronic knotted to Fig. 162. an Prepress and reaulls. Varicose veins. From wax model. cases becomes somewhat permanent, producing what Liston so well ]