83 SYPHILIS. In disease of the periosteum, extreme tenderness and pain with local Symptoms, swelling are the chief symptoms. When the hones are implicated the pain is of a constant aching character, and this is always aggravated towards night, hut there is neither such swelling, nor so much tender- ness, as in the periosteal affection. In disease of the bones of the skull, the dura matter and brain may become secondarily affected. It must not be thought, however, that syphilis and its effects are Syphilitic confined to those parts of the body that come under the immediate notice of the surgeon. It is hardly probable that both ends of the ali- organs, mentary canal should show evidence of the affection without some part of its intermediate twenty-five feet being implicated, or without some of the compound glands that are associated with it being involved. The pathologist knovvs this to be the case, and recent research has Wilks’ confirmed Wilks’ observation (‘ Guy’s Eeports,’ 1863), that “the extent observation, of the influence of syphilis is only commensurate with the tissues of the body,” and that “ there appears to be scarcely a tissue which may not be affected, and always in one particular and characteristic manner.” The internal organs may he affected equally with the external; not only the cranium, but the brain within it, or the nerves; not only the muscles of the limbs and tongue, but the heart; not only the pharynx, hut the oesophagus; not only the larynx, but the trachea, bronchi and lungs, also the liver, spleen, and other viscera.” “ The peculiar effect of syphilis on the system,” says the same Effects on writer, “ shows itself in a disposition to the effusion of a low form of system lymph, or fibro-plastic material, in nearly every tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character to a slight extent by the organ in which it occurs. In solid organs or in the interior of the tissues there is found a more or less circumscribed depo- sition of an albumino-fibrous material, whilst on the surface of the body a similar material may constitute merely the base and border of an ulcer.” In the testicle this is well seen (Fig. 12). In these observations the whole pathology of syphilis is included, for whether syphilis involve skin, mncous membrane, connective tissue, muscle, bone, periosteum, or a viscus, the same exudation exists, either as an exu- dation and induration, or as an exudation breaking up with ulceration. This exudation is the same in all stages of syphilis, in all tissues, in hereditary as well as in acquired syphilis. When the exu- dation is reabsorbed, a recovery is said to have taken place; when it breaks down, suppura- tion ensues. When it attacks the external tissues secondary symptoms are said to exist; when the internal viscera or the bones are affected, the symptoms are called tertiary. ^ In cachectic and feeble subjects, where visceral mischief has a tendency to appear, syphilitic disease of the organs may occur. Fig. 13. ^S^fihihtic de]ioBit Patholo|fj' of syphilis. ’ E-vudation. Half a testicle affected with syphilis. 235158. Prep. Guy’s Hos. Mus.