447 ANEURISM. sion by means of weights; but in every instance, convinced of the soundness of this plan of treatment, we leave no stone unturned to secure its success.” Since Esmarch’s elastic bandage, however, has been introduced, surgeons have employed it in the treatment of aneurism, and, where success has followed its use, the results have been very striking. Thus, we find that Dr. Walter Reid, R.N., who first adopted the practice, cured by its means, in fifty minutes, a case of popliteal aneurism Laucet,’ 1875); Mr. F. A. Heath, of Manchester, a second, in an hour (‘ Lancet,’ 1876); Mr. Wagstafie, a third, in two hours (‘Lancet,’ 1876)j Mr. Thomas Smith, a fourth, in three hours; and Mr. Wright, a fifth, in twenty-four hours (‘ Lancet,’ 1877). Mr. Bradley has had, however, one unsuccessful example, Mr. T. Smith two, and I now record a fourth, in which I am disposed to think the practice not only failed to cure but did harm. The case was that of a man, set. 45, who was admitted into Guy’s, under my care, in March, 1877, with a popliteal aneurism, which was increasing so rapidly that active treatment was called for. The man could bear neither digital nor instrumental pressure upon the afferent artery. I consequently applied the elastic bandage to the limb below the aneurism, using moderate pressure, allowed the aneurism to fill with blood, and then so compressed the thigh above the sac as to entirely check all pulsation in it, these three being apparently the essen- tial points to observe. A subcutaneous injection of morphia was also given. The pressure was maintained for three hours consecutively and a second dose of morphia injected, but when the bandage was removed the aneurism w'as decidedly harder, although pulsation still existed in it. Four days later all clot seemed to have disappeared, and as the aneurism was as big as ever, the elastic bandage was again applied, only on this occasion, to soothe the man, an anaesthetic was used. This treatment was continued on this occasion for three hours, and at the end, little had been gained from it. A fortnight w'as then allow'ed to elapse to allow the parts thoroughly to recover themselves, when a carbolised catgut ligature was applied to the artery, and within one week this wound had completely healed by immediate uuion, not a drop of pus having been exuded, indeed, the patient had no idea that any j operation had been performed upon his thigh. The foot, however, soon became the seat of anmmic gangrene, and a fortnight after the application of the ligature, was amputated in the middle of the leg, and a good recovery follow’ed. In this case I am disposed to attribute the gangrene to the em- ployment of the elastic bandage, and fear that from its two applications many of the small arterial branches that would have carried on the circulation through the foot, after the ligature of the femoral had become blocked, and that, as a consequence, gangrene followed. The I case indeed tends much to support the view', which Holmes fairly demonstrated in his college lectures, that where pressure fails to effect ' a cure in the treatment of an aneurism, the success of ligature of i the vessel is not so good. An aneurism is known to be cured wdien it has consolidated and lost I all pulsation, and the anastomosing arterial branches around are visibly I pulsating. Care, however, must be observed for some days later, and no I movement of the limh or manipulation of the sac are to be allowed : be- I 1 The rapid treatment of aneurism by Esmarch’s bandage. Case. Care during process of cure.