116 RECXniRENT TUMOURS. Recurrent tumours. General remarks. Liable to fallacy. E.’cplanation of the recurrency. Recurrent fibroid of Paget. Sarcoma of Virchow. Characters of recurrent tumours. A.ppeariinces on section and under the microscope. Treatment. II. Recurrent or semi-malignant growths. It will have been observed that in nearly every group of tumours which has been described, recurrence after removal has been alluded to as a possible, although a rare, event. In this recur- rence, too, the new growths approach in character to the malignant. In some cases, doubtless, the second tumour has been simply the external manifestation of a small one which existed when the original tumour was removed, or the increased growth of a portion of diseased tissue that was left—for the surgeon is often unable to perceive small tumours in excising the larger, as his incision leaves them unexposed. On two occasions, when removing a mammary glandular tumour, I have exposed a minute grov/th of a similar structure by the incision made through a portion of the healthy mammary gland to reach the principal growth. In both these cases had the small tumour been left a recurrence would have been recorded. In cases of recurrent fatty tumour, or of fibro-cellular tumour, it is highly probable that a small portion of the tissue was left. On one occasion, when I was enucleating a fibro-cellular tumour of several years’ growth from beneath the fascia covering the seapula, I discovered two smaller growths which might have been overlooked and would certainly have grown. Nevertheless, it is a clinical fact that tumours, which are usually looked upon as innocent, oceasionally recur; and the more the cell elements predominate in a new growth, the greater its succulence, and the looser its structure, so much the more prone is it to return. Each tumour, also, as it recurs generally becomes less solid, more succulent, and more rapid in its growth. With each recurrence the cell elements increase in proportion, and in all ways; “later formed tumours assume more of the character of malignancy than the earlier.” All these recurrent tumours, named by Paget “ recurrent fibroid,” being usually composed of elon- gated, oat-shaped, caudate, nucleated cells, like the so-called “ fibro- plastie” cells, which are found in granulation and embryonic connective tissue. Virchow calls them “ sarcomata” {vide Fig. 29). It must be observed that these tumours, as a rule, attack the young aud healthy. They grow from a fascia or aponeurosis, are of slow growth, particularly at first, and destroy life only after many years, and from local causes. They return either in the spot from which they originally sprang, or from its immediate neighbourhood. They simply affect the part mechanically, by separating and surrounding tis- sues, but never by infiltrating them. The skin is stretched over the tumour, but never involved in it; aud if destroyed it is by ulceration from over-disteiision, while the absorbent glands are never secondarily involved, even in extreme conditions. Such tumours are to the hand more or less fibrous and lobulated, their fibrous feel being much influenced by their rapidity of growth. When cut into, they present a more or less compact surface, a clear serous fluid infiltrating its meshes; while even the finest microscopical section will be found tough and tenacious, and incapable of being pressed into a diffluent mass. Under the microscope they present an excess of nucleated cells aud nucleated fibres, these, again, showing their tendency towards the characters of the malignant growth. The treatment of recurrent tumours need not differ from that of the innocent, for as long as the disease is local, there is a reasonable hope that it will at last cease to recur after removal. “ Sir J. Paget has known