ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 660 of hernia. On a bed, it may be done by pillows placed'below the pelvis; but if one of Alderman’s chairs or a Htbotomy couch is at hand, it may be used. Some surgeons, with the patient in the recumbent position, and a folded sheet placed round the abdomen over the umbi- licus, have forcibly drawn the contents of the abdomen upwards. Both these methods are founded on the principle of withdrawing by position and force the contents of the sac into the abdominal cavity. They are possibly justifiable when herniotomy is not sanc- tioned nor chloroform employed, and delay is dangerous. I cannot recommend them. Brolongpi The taxis should never be employed for any lengthened period. aTOid^ With the patient under chloroform, a femoral hernia of average size (that of a walnut) should never be manipulated for more than two minutes; half that time, or less, is usually sufficient to effect reduction where it is to be secured, while any more prolonged eflfort will be injurious. The taxis should never be forcible. In large femoral herniae, inguinal or umbilical, five minutes may possibly be allowed: but the quarter and half hour’s manipulation so frequently talked about, is dangerous in the extreme. In very large herniae, ten minutes may be permitted without chloroform, and periods half as long again may possibly be called for. It is from this fact, coupled with another, viz. that without chloroform twice the force is needed, that the use of the anaesthetic is to be recommended. The reduction of a hernia by gentle taxis with a patient under chlo- roform is a simple, rapid, and successful operation. The reduction of a hernia hj forcible or prolonged taxis without chloroform is a dange- rous and far less successful proceeding. In femoral hernia, indeed, herniotomy had far better be employed. Under chloroform, the taxis is almost always successful in inguinal hernia. Operative When the taxis has failed, nothing but an immediate operation is measures. justifiable. The operation is not of itself dangerous, although the con- dition that demands it is exceedingly so. It is not, and should not be regarded as a last resource; for in many cases it should be the first. When a patient is hanging, the first thing any one does is to cut the rope that is causing strangulation; and no other means are admis- sible. When a piece of bowel is strangulated, the strangulating medium requires division to give it freedom; the doing of it adding nothing to the danger of the case. The danger lies in the strangula- tion which increases every minute. Herniotomy. Herniotomy or Kelotomy remains now to be described, and let it be repeated, that it is to be performed directly the reduction of a strangulated hernia by the taxis has failed, and, if chloroform is used, lohile the patient remains under its influence. To submit a patient to the depressing effects of chloroform to apply the taxis, and, on its failing, to allow any period of time to pass before resorting to herniotomy is a practice to be condemned—a second administration of chloroform for the operation having no beneficial influence. It would be better for the patient and far better practice to delay the application of the taxis till chloroform can be obtained, and the arrangements for operation made, in case the taxis fails. Objects of The objects of the operation are to liberate the strangulated heniial operation.