112 TUMOURS. Subcu- tiineous fibrous tumours, Treatment of fibrous tumours. En chon- droma. Usually in young persons. Are encysted, Those in the parotid region. Characters. osteal and appear as outgrowths {vide Chapter on Tumours of Bone). They are found in the pharynx, on the lobule of the ear, and on the nerves as “ neuromata.” The subcutaneous fibrous tumour is n hard movable tumour beneath the skin. It is usually small, but when of a less dense kind and more nearly approaching the fibro-cellular tumour, it may attain a large size. Under these circumstances the skin will become part of the tumour, it will then often ulcerate and allow the growth to protrude through the opening and ulcerate or even slough, and thus these tumours sometimes bleed freely. At times fibrous tumours seem to grow from the deep fascia. Excision is the only treatment which offers any prospect of success, and when these fibrous tumours are removed a recurrence is rarely met with. The fibro-muscular, fibro-cystic, and fibro-calcareous tumours are mostly uterine. Enchondromata, or cartilaginous tumours, are most commonly met with in connection with bone; next in frequency they are found in the parotid or submaxillary regions, and are seen in the testicles, inter- muscular septa, and other parts. They appear, as a rule, in young subjects, in people under middle age, and are far more common, according to my own notes, in the female than in the male. They are usually slow in growth, the majority having existed years before the patient seeks advice. The instances of tumours of rapid growth on record are rare. These tumours, wheu not outgrowths, are always encysted, and have a smooth, tense, and elastic feel. In some examples they are uniform and even, in others bossy and nodulated; they rarely cause pain, and produce anxiety simply from their position and size. Those in the parotid or sub- maxillary region appear to grow superficially, and to be movable; but they often dip down deeply into the tissues, and considerable care is required in their removal; as often as not they are very adherent to the surrounding parts. These simple parotid tumours rarely involve the facial nerve or cause paralysis, as do the cancerous tumours. When the cartilaginous tumours grow within bones they expand them into a thin shell. These cartilaginous tumours are usually innocent, and consequently only separate the parts between which they are developed. They never involve the integument by infiltration, but only stretch it; in excep- tionalinstancesthey ex- cite inflammation and ulceration in the skin, with subsequent per- foration ; they do not affect the system through the glands, al- though it must be added that rare ex- amples are on record in which cartilaginous tumours have returned and affected the lymph- atic system like a can- cer. Sir J. Paget has