628 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Syinptonis. Biasiioeis between band and intussus- ception. be chronic. Sudden invasion of symptoms, however, is the rule in both forms, with tenesmus and muco-sanp^uineous discharges, more particu- larly when the ileum is involved ; discharge of blood per rectum occurs in the acutest cases. Ihe symptoms may be very acute and destroy life in three days, or so mild as to be only those of intestinal irritation. The development of symptoms__as well pointed out by Mr. Howard Marsh (‘ St. Barth. Rep., vol. xii, 1876, p. 98) depending upon the occurrence of con- Fig. 257. Intussusception, witli diagram showing the entering, returning, and receiving layers ol ileum into colon. striction—an intussusception in this respect being like a hernia, which maybe “ down ” without being strangulated or even obstructed—the various symptoms in each case depending, not on the mere displacement of the intestine but on the constriction produced by the displacement. When acute, a case of intussusception at its onset may be mistaken for one of “ band,” and yet marked points of difference exist between the two. In both, the attack is sudden, and followed by collapse, but in the case of a band, pain is localised from the first, is paroxysmal, and remains severe t o the last, and is also unassociated with tenesmus. In the intussitsception, pain varies much both in seat and intensity, is often relieved by pressure, and towards the last ceases. The pain is like- wise commonly associated with tenesmus. In “ band,” vomiting soon becomes fsecal and is constant; in intussusception it may also be the same, but it as often ceases. In “ band,” constipation is the rule, with inability to pass flatus; in “ invagination ” diarrhoea, tenesmus and bloody mucoid stools are characteristic; constipation is, however, at times present in chronic cases. In “band,” central and hypogastric abdominal distension is an early symptom, in “ intussusception,” it may never e,xist. In “ band,” the most that may be felt is a single coil of distended bowel; in “ invagination” a distinct tumour may be felt. Dr. Leichtenstein, of Tiibiugen, in a valuable analysis of 593 cases of this affection (‘ Prager Vierteljahrschrift,’ Bd. II9, I2I, 1874), informs us that when a tumour is recognised in the epigastric region, the ileum is probably the part iuvaginated; when in the right iliac fossa the ileum into the cmcum; and when it can be felt in the rectum it is probably ileum. Mr. Morris (‘ Path. Trans.,’ p. 133, 1877), has, however, pointed out the possibility of mistaking blood clot in the rec- tum for the lower end of intussuscepted bowel, so that the use of the