DISPLACED HERNIA. 670 abdominal muscles. Thus the fold of intestine was pushed through the external ring, through the spermatic canal, and through that part which is described to be an internal ring (but of which no trace could be seen), and was reduced within the abdominal muscles but not within the abdominal cavity,” the neck of the sac still grasping the included portion of gut (B, Fig. 279a). The hernia was also clearly of the con- genital form, although it had not descended as far as the testicle. The two drawings (Figs. 279 and 279a) and descriptions are given as originally described by Sir C. Bell. This case I have described somewhat fully, as I believe it to be the Fig- 279. Fiq. 279a. Drawing illustrating the second varieties of displaced hernia. Fig. 279. A. A portion of the abdominal mnscles, with the peritoneal lining. B. The strangulated fold of intestine. E. The testicle. The dark lines at the neck of the sac represent the duplicature of the peri- toneum, which being unfolded formed a sac for containing the intestine when reduced. Fig. 279a. A. Peritoneum lining the abdominal parietes. B. The tumour formed when the strangulated intestine was pushed through the spermatic canal into the sac formed by peritoneum in tlie inside. C. The snperior portion of intestine. D. The inferior. E. The scrotal hernial sac. F. The testicle, with the vaginal coat opened. earliest on record in which this accident has been clearly made out. In it the neck of the sac had evidently been pushed upwards within the internal ring with the strangulated howel. Third form. third form (Fig. 267), “as the effect of forcible and long-sus- Interstitial compression of the hernial tumour, the delicate serous membrane with of tliG sac is rent, burst, or torn, and the hernia makes its escape through ruptured sac. the aperture into the sub-serous connective tissue; its course outside the peritoneal sac is advanced by continued pressure; and detaching the connections of the neighbonring peritoneum, it forms for itself a pouch between that serous membrane and theinternal abdominal fascia.” —Biekbtt. The posterior part of the neck of an inguinal hernial sac is the usual seat of the rupture, and the position of the artificial sac is downwards and outwards. The “ congenital ” form of hernial sac is also the more liable to the accident {vide fig. 280). Indications of indications of the accident having taken place are as follows ; a hernia I give them in Birkett’s words—“The tumour becomes flaccid, and, having been therefore, smaller; the bulk of the tumour slowly diminishes as the displaced.