SINUS AND FISTULA. On digital compression of main artery in inflamma- tions. On sinus and fistula. Definition. Varieties of fistula. 24 artery with a good result. Previous to these cases, however, as early as 1813, Dr. Onderdouk, of America, ligatured the femoral in a case of wound of the knee-joint, to check acute inflammation, and others since his time have followed his practice. It is a method of treat- ment certainly worthy of attention, inasmuch as to cut off the supply of blood to an inflamed part, when too much is passing to it, is sound in theory; and to do the same to starve out the disease is equally scientific. In elephantiasis Arabum the practice does not seem to be without its good efiects, and, in acute disease, it is certainly admissible. I well remember, as a student, observing, under the care of Mr. Bransby Cooper, a serious case of compound fracture of the leg, com- plicated with a severe laceration of the thigh and division of the femoral artery of the same side. He was in doubt as to the practice be ought to follow, not knowing whether with the divided femoral the supply of blood would be sufficient to repair the compound fracture. The success of the case, however, proved that the fear was groundless, for repair went on uninterruptedly, and a good limb was the result. The patient was a man of middle age. In 1873 I also treated with unh- terrupted success a case of compound fracture of the humerus into tie elbow-joint in a man where the brachial artery was obstructed, recovery with a movable joint being accomplished. With respect to the treatment of inflammation by the digital con- pression of the main arterial trunks leading to the injured or diseastd parts, it must be recorded that in 1861 Dr. T. Vanzetti, of Padm, wrote a paper upon the subject, which Mr. S. Gamgeehas translated in his work ‘ On Fractures’ (1871). He was led to apply this treatmentto cases of inflammatory disease from its success in the treatment )f aneurisms. He asserts that compression will cure every incipient ii- flammation, and check it even when advanced, and he adduces cases Df phlegmonous erysipelas and acute arthritis of the hand successfuly treated by such a process. He adds, however, that “ in the treatmeit of aneurisms as of inflammations, compression can never become a normal method until it be always and e.vclusively effected with tie finger.” SINUS AND FISTULA. A fistula is an unnatural communication between a normal cavity cr canal and the outside of the body or second cavity or canal. A sinus is a narrow suppurating tract with only one orifice. Both will now be considered. Thus, amongst the JistulcB, then are the vesico-vaginal and the recto-vaginal fistulse in women; the recto- vesical in men ; fmcal fistula, gastric and biliary fistulm, anal fistula, salivary fistula, and urinary fistula. They are always due primarily to some suppurative or ulcerative process, or mechanical violence, operative or otherwise, and subsequently, to a want of repair. When passages are close together, the fistula will be short and direct; in some large, in others narrow or tortuous. When the cavity or canal is deeply placed, or the inner opening deeply situated, the fistula may be a long narrow tract. When the fistula is of recent origin and lined with granulations discharging pus, the walls will be soft, readily bleeding on manipulation. When old, they will be smooth and hard, “cal- lous” all over, and non-sensitive, secreting a thin, watery', non-purulent fluid. This fluid is, moreover, mi-xed with the contents of the cavity or