164 ON SKIN GRAFTING. Care in removal of dressing. How engrafted pieces act. How engrafted pieces grow. Under all these circumstances, however, the surface of the sore is to be cleaned with the greatest care, a stream of tepid water, from a dressing can or squeezed from a sponge over the part, being the best means to employ. The surface is on no account to be wiped, for the grafted portions of skin are easily uprooted, whilst those that seem to have died or that have disappeared often show themselves again later as “ cutifying centres.” As soon as the sinew centres are established in large sores, other pieces should be engrafted, at about the same distance from the new pieces as those were originally in- serted from the margin of the sore j and in this way the whole granu- lating surface may be speedily covered with new skin, and a rapid recovery follow. How the engrafted pieces act in the healing process is not yet satis- factorily settled, and Reverdin’s questions, already quoted, have not yet been completely answered. That they do act as direct stimulants to the sore itself and more particularly to the margin of the sore, there can be little doubt, for as soon as the “grafts” have taken, the margin of the sore nearest to them is seen to cicatrise and to send out prolonga- tions of new cicatrising tissue to meet similar prolongations from the new cutifying centres: the sore in this way becoming subdivided by bands into smaller sores, and then rapidly healing (Fig. 47). That the engrafted portions grow by tbe proliferation of their own cells is likewise proved by the fact, that in the case of a white man upon whose ulcerated leg I engrafted four small pieces of black skin, the whole being no larger than a barley-corn, the black skin grew twentyfold in ten weeks, to the extent illustrated in Fig. 48, Fig. 48. Fig. 49. Drawings illustrating the growth of black skin when grafted on to the sore of a white man. gradually enlarging and sending out prolongations which joined, till one patch of black skin had formed, as seen in Fig. 49. The