442 ANEURISM. Venesection and Valsalva’s treatment. Acetate of lead. Diet. Local treatment. The principles. Indirect compression. Mode of action. to be maintained in every case; indeed, there is every reason to believe, that by it alone, aneurisms have been cured. Luke (‘Lond. Med. Gaz.,’ May, 1845), Bellingham, Tufnell, and others, have recorded instances of this nature, Tufnell allowing for diet about ten ounces of solid and eight ounces of fluid food in the twenty-four hours. As a preliminary to all other treatment absolute rest is, therefore, most essential. With the same object bleeding has been employed, and was at one time largely practised on the authority of Valsalva, who powerfully advo- cated it, and probably to excess. There seems no reason why it should not be adopted when the force of the circulation is too strong and the powers of the patient are good; as bleeding under these circumstances is not only rational but scientific; it lowers the force of the circulation, while at the same time it has a tendency to render the blood more fibrinous. In internal aneurism it is calculated to be of more service than in external, but practised with caution, it is doubtless of value in both. Medicines do not seem to have much influence in encouraging the coagulating process, though the acetate of lead gave some promise of value in the hands of my former colleague. Dr. G. 0. Rees, but more extended experience has not confirmed the hope. In external aneurisms, its employment to the sacrifice of local means does not seem justifiable, but in internal cases it may still be used. When syphilis is suspected as a cause, the iodide of potassium or sodium should be employed. Nutritious but unstimulating food should be given in all instances to i • maintain the powers of the patient, though not to increase the force of 11 the circulation. All mental excitement should be positively forbidden, f i The local treatment of aneurism is based on similar principles, the I. aim being to diminish the circulation through the sac. The success, H however, which may be expected from the practice adopted will depend ( much upon the shape of the aneurism, as well as the size and position id of the opening into the sac. This may be effected by the following means, viz.—by compression in one of its forms of the artery above the aneurism—indirect; by compression of the aneurism itself—direct; by the NLunterian operation, i. e. the application of a ligature to the ■ i artery on its cardiac side j by imitating the rare natural process of closure of the artery on its distal side by the application of a liga- ■ ture, or by pressure, or by the artificial production of an embolic plug by Fergusson’s method of manipulation ; and last of all, it may be laid . open and both ends tied (Syme’s operation), after the ancient method i of Antyllus. The treatment by electro-puncture, injection, and the i > introduction of some foreign body into the sac may be adopted in 1 exceptional cases. Compression. This plan of treatment, to which the term “ Dublin Method” may be | fairly given, has now found a lasting place in surgery; as Todd, | Hutton, Bellingham, Tufnell, and Carte, though not originating the I practice, have adduced ample evidence of its scientific and practical : value. It consists essentially in the more or less complete cutting off of the supply of blood from the aneurismal sac by the application of pressure | to the artery on its cardiac side: and the more completely the current I of the blood is arrested, the more rapid appears to be the cure, modern ' experience fairly proving the soundness of Dr. W. Murray’s observation 11 that the principle on which the rapid method rests is clearly “ the |