COLOTOMT. 637 few months, one nineteen months, one four and a half years. Two were known to be living for three and four years after the operation. These results cannot be regarded otherwise than with satisfaction, for it should he remembered that in all these cases the operation was undertaken when life was threatened, and the distress from the local disease was severe and otherwise irremediable. The operation is Operation beneficial in all cases of vesico-intestinal fistula when solid faeces flow '"’hen w'ith the urine; in all cases of stricture of the rectum so soon as the obstruction becomes serious and local distress great; in all other cases of mechanical obstruction to the rectum from pelvic causes, when no less severe measures for relief can be suggested; and, last, but not least, in e.vtensive ulceration of the rectum, cancerous, syphilitic, or simple, when local treatment fails to give relief, and local distress is great, when the general powers are evidently giving way from the local disease quite irrespective of all mechanical obstruction. In no case, however, should the operation be postponed till the patient’s powers are failing, for then the prospects of recovery are greatly lessened aud convalescence is often rendered improbable. By way of summary, therefore, it may be stated that— Summary. Laparotomy is an operation which should be performed in all cases of acute intestinal obstruction due to bauds, internal hernia, and intussusception, that do not speedily yield to other treatment. Colotomy is applicable to cases of obstruction to the large intestine from stricture or the mechanical pressure of tumours. Enterotomy affords a means of relief for all other cases of intestinal obstruction to which the tw'o former operations are inapplicable. On Tapping the Intestine. On tapping The practice of tapping the intestine with a fine trocar and canula >nt«siiue in cases of intestinal obstruction, is one which deserves serious con- mvour * sideration, since there is good reason to believe, that a small puncture may often be made into a distended intestine aud wind drawni off without any extravasation of the contents of the bowel taking place; and that if the distension of the strangulated, twisted, or otherwise obstructed bow'el can be relieved by the operation, there is some ground for hope that natural efforts may then release the bowel from beneath its band or from some internal peritoneal ring, and that even a twisted bowel may untwist. The operation, however, is not without its risk, as I have on several occasions known faecal extravasation to follow the practice, and Couplaud and Morris quote other cases. 1 have been also led to believe that even in a large hernia, its strangulation might he relieved by a like operation and a natural reduction take place; for a strangulated bowel, outside as w'ell as inside the abdominal cavity, is strangulated by the distension of the intestine itself, more than from any extra-intestinal influence, and if this distension can be relieved by simply drawing off the contents of the bowel by means of a very fine trocar and canula, the walls of the intestine wmuld collapse, strangula- tion cease, and unless adhesions confined the bowel in its position, its return might be looked for by natural efforts. These remarks are based Case in upon the fact, that intestine may be so treated without any extravasation " it "'"s following, aud such actually came before me in a case of ileo-colic ornieu. scrotal hernia, in a gentleman aet. 76, when, to enable me to reduce the bowel, 1 was driven to puncture the protruding intestine in four or