MORTIFICATION. 38 Mortification a compound process. Constitu- tional symptoms atteuding gangrene. Treatment of mortification. Causes to be ascertained. I Treatment of I traumatic I gangrene. a. When limited. h. Wlicn extensive. sufEering from some obstructive heart disease. In all these the parts may die from blood stasis, though inflammation, more or less marked, with its products, has generally an important influence in producing the result. Mortification is thus a compound process, and is brought about by mixed causes—direct injury, want of arterial supply, and blood stasis from mechanical obstruction to the return of the venous blood being the three main exciting elements of the affection. At the same time, in each of the three classes of causes thus grouped together, inflammatory action has secondarily an important influence. Feebleness of power, old age, or want of nutrition, or nerve supply in a part, renders a patient or tissue more prone to the action of these causes, and the process more active. The constitutional symptoms associated with gangrene vary with its cause, but under all circumstances, a depressed condition of the ordinary powers is recognisable. In traumatic inflammation during the stage of excitement, the pulse may be rapid and the beat strong, the fever high, and other symptoms may be present indicative of sthenic action ; but, when about to terminate in gangrene, all these symptoms will be marked by a sudden fall, the temperature of the body dropping four or five degrees, say from 104° or 105° to 99° F. Some interesting observations on this point by Mr. Pick will be found in ‘ St. George’s Hospital Reports ’ for 1868. When the mischief is extensive, and the gangrene spreads, what are known as typhoid symptoms may supervene. In the more acute cases death takes place very rapidly, but in the chronic, the constitutional symptoms are negative. Treatment.—The most important point the surgeon has to bear in mind in the treatment of every form of mortification is, that the con- dition indicates a depressed state of the system; consequently the general treatment should be directed towards maintaining the patient’s strength and cautiously building up the feeble powers by means of nutritious food, stimulants, and tonics, at the same time allaying pain by local and general soothing remedies, such as opium, morphia, or chloral, for nothing depresses more than pain. The cause of gangrene has also to be considered, for its in- fluence on practice is most important. To treat a case of gangrene, the result of a local injury, as one due to obstruction of an artery would be clearly wrong, and to deal with an example of this latter form in the same manner as with another due to blood stasis the result of mechanical obstruction to the return of the venous blood of a part, would be unscientific. I shall therefore consider the question of treat- ment as applied separately to the three groups of cases already formed. Treatment of traumatic gangrene, when of a limited nature, need cause but little anxiety. It should be treated on ordinary principles of local cleanliness, by poultices, water dressings, or the irrigation of warm water, with some antiseptic lotion, such as iodine lotion, sulphurous acid, Condy’s fluid, carbolic acid, or chloride of zinc. _ When the slough has come away the surface is to be treated as an ordinary sore. When the gangrene is more extensive and involving possibly a por- tion of a limb, but yet defined, whether caused directly by the injury or indirectly by the inflammation that followed, the expediency of removing the dead part by amputation is not to be disputed. No