120 CANCEROUS TUMOURS. Brawny condition of skin. Cancer may become atrophic. Variety in rapidity of growth. Cancerous ulceration. When a cavity exists. Cachexia. Pain as a symptom. I Section of scirrhous cancer. brawny, in fact, infiltrated with cancerous elements, this state be- tokening the most rapid form of cancer. This brawny condition of integument commonly follows venous obstruction from glandular enlargement, but at times it takes place before any such complica- tion. In rarer cases the cancer withers, “atrophic cancer,” the disease slowly progressing to a point and then disappearing by a gradual process. Thus, cancerous tubercles will appear and dis- appear ; cancerous nodules will form and fall off by tbe contraction of their own fibres. In this way cancer may become cured, or so stationary as not to interfere with life. I have had a case under observation in which the disease existed for twenty-three years, and seemed still local. I have recorded another in which the disease lasted twelve years, appearing and crumbling away at times during that period almost to a perfect cure. Cancers display a very variable degree of growing or existing power; and there does not seem to be any condition of the patient or of the tumour which either favours or disfavours these properties. Some have an apparent vigour of increase that is remarkable, whilst others show no such tendency. In many cases a tumour that has been quiescent for a long period will suddenly increase actively. The same thing may be said as regards the cancerous ulcer. In the atrophic form this may be merely a superficial loss of substance on tbe surface of the tumour which may be covered with a scab or pi’esent a glazed or a very slightly discharging surface. In other oases the ulcer will show an irregular surface with an elevated everted edge infiltrated with new tissue (Fig. 25). When a cavity exists, formed by the softening down of the centre of the tumour or the enucleation of dead tissue, tbe irregular outline of the cavity, the foetid semipurulent sanious discharge, as well as the ragged and infiltrated edge of the wound are characteristic signs of its can- cerous nature. In such cases a cachexia becomes visible, a pale, bloodless, haggard look of sorrow and suffering, brought on by pain, sleeplessness, and exhausting discharges. Pain in the development of a cancer is a very variable symptom. In primary growths it is rarely severe, unless some nerve trunk be pressed upon, or the tumour is bound down by a tense fascia or is developed within a bone. Under all these circumstances the paiu is constant, of an “ aching or of a so-called rheumatic kind.” In others, it is usually compared to an occasional dart of pain through the part. As a sign of secondary deposits pain, however, is a valuable symptom; neuralgic pain following the course of a nerve being enough to ex- cite fear of some deep-seated secondary growth. Than this, no more valuable or reliable clinical symptom exists The section of a scirrhous cancer is generally attended with a grating sensation, the parts cutting crisply; it presents a concave surf ace, anA. yields on scraping a milky juice. The tumour has no defined margin, the diseased and healthy tissues, as it were, dipping into each other. The surface of the cut portion may be vascular or bloodless, and has a bluish-grey or streaked yellow aspect, according to the amount of cell or fibre elements entering into its formation, or to its progress towards degeneration; the yellow spots being indicative of degeneration. Occa- sionally cysts or rather cavities containing serum, blood, or broken-down