OPHTHALMIA. 312 Trichiasis. I I Treatment. Avoidance of strong caustics. Duration of attack. Inoculation. Occurrence of iritis. Purulent ophthalmia. i I Gonorrhoeal I ophthalmia. Ophthalmia neonatorum. “trichiasis” (see p. 343). The results of granular ophthalmia are frequently aggravated by unskilful treatment. Treatment.—In treating granular ophtlialmia our object is to destroy the granulations, with as little damage as possible to the conjunctiva itself. The use of strong caustics must he carefully avoided, as they cause too much destruction of tissue, followed by the formation and subse- quent contraction of cicatrices. Slight cases can be cured in a short time by the application of miti- gated nitrate of silver stick twice a week, or oftener, aud the use of sulphate of copper drops from three to six times a day. More severe cases will remain under treatment for months or years, but if persevered with will usually get well. If the ophthalmia be of recent date the granulations should be touched twice a week with the mitigated nitrate of silver stick, or, if possible, every day, sulphate of copper drops being used from three to six times daily. In ehronic cases the green stone should be used instead of the nitrate, of silver stick. The application of calomel powder or quinine to the granulations has also been found useful in some cases. When the eornea is completely opaque and fleshy looking, inocula- tion with pus from a case of purulent ophthalmia may be tried, but only in extreme cases, otherwise we may do more harm than good by causing sloughing of the cornea; should but one eye be afiected, care must be taken to prevent the other becoming inoculated. Iritis not unfrequently supervenes in the course of granular oph- thalmia ; when it occurs a solution of atropine should be dropped into the eye from three to six times daily, in addition to other remedies. Pannus requires no special treatment, and if not very dense dis- appears as the granulations are cured. In all cases some simple ointment should be applied to the edges of the lids at night, to prevent their becoming gummed together. Purulent ophthalmia.—Purulent ophthalmia may be met with, as “ ophthalmia neonatorum ” in children soon after birth, or in older persons. In the former case it may he caused by contact of acrid vaginal secretions, by want of cleanliness and fresh air, or a combina- tion of the two j in the latter by contact with some form of .specific pus, or by constant irritation of the already inflamed conjunctiva. It is highly contagious. The worst form of the disease, whether occurring in infants or older persons, is that caused by inoculation with gonorrhoeal matter— “ gonorrhoeal ophthalmia.” “ Ophthalmia neonatorum ” makes its appearance a few' days after birth; the eyelids are found red or bluish-red and swollen; the eyes can only be opened with difficulty, and on attempting to separate the lids thick yellow purulent discharge escapes from between their edges; both eyes are almost always affected. Purulent ophthalmia in older persons may affect one or both eyes; it eommences with intolerance of light, lachrj'mation, and injection of the conjunctiva, at first much resembling an ordinary attack of catarrhal ophthalmia, but in about tw'elve hours its real nature becomes apparent by thick yellow discharge from between the I