233 TREPHINING. when it is, the injury has probably been of such a severe nature as to I produce grave intracranial complications, from which any operation I would be incapable of affording relief; and that haemorrhage between the I hone and the dura mater is rarely so uncomplicated with brain mischief as to render it probable that the operation of trephining will be successful. ' When, however, it can be fairly determined that brain symptoms of Only I a defined and aggravated character are the result of either of these two causes, separately or combined, the operation of trephining may be symptoms performed. In diffused injuries to the skull the probabilities are all are very against the operation ; while in local injuries they are in its favour. marked. In both simple and compound fractures of the skull, with or without I depression of bone, the symptoms of compression of the brain, as a i primary result of the accident, must be very marked indeed to justify I tbe operation of trephining; although in compound fractures it is Elevation of expedient to elevate depressed bone, when any symptoms of brain irri- i tatiou manifest themselves, such as local pain and weight, spasms or compound I convulsions; and that under all circumstances it is best to remove fractures. I fragments when the bone is comminuted. In a compound comminuted fracture of the skull the dura mater is probably exposed, and is likewise irritated by the broken bone. A careful elevation of the depressed Remove portion of the bone and the removal of the comminuted fragments can in no’way add to the mischief, but must tend towards its diminution. In local injuries whether simple or compound, when incipient sym- Trephine ptoms of brain irritation or inflammation appear two or three days after when ) the injury, the use of the trephine is indicated, inasmuch as there is a of I probability that the symptoms originate in the presence of a frag- encephalitis ment of bone irritating the brain or its membranes, which if left must e.vist. go on to set up encephalitis. In all cases of punctured fracture the trephine should be employed. In diffused injuries to the cranium and its contents trephining is useless. When an abscess can be made out as existing between the bone and the Pus between dura mater after a head injury, the operation of trephining is demanded, <lura mater though the diagnosis of such cases is difficult. The chief indications ““ °“®‘ are. found in the prolonged period which frequently elapses between the injury and the supervention of the symptoms, tiieir gradual and, it may be said, irregular approach, the general and cerebral irritation that is present as a rule, the exacerbation of all these symptoms, and, above all, the constant headache. The direct symptoms of compression produced by the formation of pus are, moreover, in no ways so definite as those afforded by blood ex- travasation ; they are of a less decided nature, and are never associated with the deep-toned stertor and rapid progress of the symptoms, “ which, with overwhelming influence, quickly annihilate both motion and consciousness when blood has been poured' out in any considerable quantity after injury to the cranium.” (Cock.) They are, however, fairly marked by the clinical history of the case,and can be generally recognised. The operation of trephining. The instruments required for the operation are the trephine, or cir- instruments cnlar hand-saw, of which there are two sizes; a small saio, with a required, straight and circular edge, generally known as Key’s saw; a sharp scalpel, with a handle rounded at the end, to press back the periosteum and soft parts from the bone; a flat probe, thin enough to introduce