349 OPEKATIONS OP THE TEAR PASSAGES. be allowed to burst a fistulous opening will very probably be left, but if a free opening be made so soon as the formation of pus is suspected, the wound heals readily. Distension of the lachrymal sac (Mucocele). Mucocele. The lachrymal sac not unfrequently becomes distended, forming a tumour of varying size beneath the internal palpebral ligament (tendo oculi); pressure on the tumour causes tlie escape of a transparent, somewhat tenacious fluid, consisting of mucus and tears, in some cases thickened from the admixture of pus-cells. Distension of the sac is caused by stricture of the nasal duct and consequent accumula- tion of secretion ; it is accompanied by more or less watering of the eye, and may be remedied by relieving the stricture of the duct. Discharge from the lachr5rmal sac (Blennorrhoea). Blcnnorrhcca. A muco-puruleut or purulent discharge from the sac is often met with, following inflammation, especially if disease of the adjacent bone exist. It may be treated—1st. By insuring a free exit for the discharge by slitting the canaliculus, and passing a large probe down the la- chrymal duct. 2nd. By washing out the sac. 3rd. By obliteration of the sac. Stricture of the nasal duct may be met with in any part of its Stricture of course; the obstruction, however, is most frequently found at its junc- aiisal duct, tion with the lachrymal sac. Occasionally the duct is found almost obliterated by dense bony deposit. Fistula of the lachrymal sac occurs as a small, sometimes scarcely pistuln of perceptible opening, situated at some point over the sac; it is found lachrymal in connection with obstruction of the nasal duct. If the passage be reestablished, the fistula will probably close. Operations on the tear passages. The operation of slitting the tear puncta and canaliculi may be performed thus:—The patient should be seated in a chair, the operator standing behind him. (See Fig. 93, p. 340.) Supposing the lower punctum and canaliculus on the right side to be operated on, the small Fig. 98. Grooved director for slitting canaliculus. and ring fingers of the left hand should be placed upon the patient’s Slitting face, near the outer canthus, the lids drawn tight, with these two canaliculus, fingers, and kept so; then a small grooved director (Fig. 98) should be taken in the right hand and passed at first vertically to the margin of the lid, through the tear punctum ; its handle then depressed, and its point passed horizontally along the canaliculus into the sac. To ascer- tain that the poiut of the director is in the sac, the tension of the lids must be relaxed and the director pushed gently onwards; if there be any puckering at the iuuer canthus when the director is thus pushed, its point has not entered the sac, and a further attempt must be made; if no puckering occur, the lids should be brought again into a state of tension, and the handle of the director transferred to the thumb and forefinger of the left hand; a cataract or any small knife that will cut, should then be taken in the right hand, and run along the groove of the director well into the sac, the knife and director being then withdrawn together; the upper lid must he kept out of the way by