206 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Fracture with depression. Sources of error. Punctured fracture. Fracture of base. Tlirough middle fossa. Bleeding from ears. Facial paralysis. Watery fluid from ear. Fracture of the anterior fossa. Bleeding from nose. iippenvs ns a red line. Care, however, should he taken in these cases not to mistake a suture for a fracture. When fracture exists with depressed hone, the diagnosis is rarely difficult, unless it should so happen that the fracture has taken place beneath the body of the temporal muscle, when it is almost impossible to diagnose its existence by direct signs. An effusion of blood beneath the pericranium may be mis- taken, unless care be observed, for a fracture with depressed bone; as may a natural def)ressiou in the skull, particularly in the occipital region. Fracture of the skull, the result of a punctured wound, can, as a rule, be readily recognised, but when tiie point of the perforating in- strument has been broken short off at the surface of the bone, much care is needed. The diagnosis of a fracture of the base, or of the base and vault com- bined, is always a source of difficulty. The nature of the accident is, without doubt, the surgeon’s best guide; a fall from a height upon the head, or a heavy blow, is the usual cause of such an accident, though a crushing force applied in any direction may produce the same result. Should the fall have been upon or the force applied to the vertex, the middle fossa of the skull will probably be the seat of injm-y; and the diagnosis of a fracture through the petrous bone may with some confidence be made when such an injui’y is followed by profuse or per- sistent htemorrhage from the ear, succeeded by the copious discharge of a watery and perhaps saccharine or slightly albuminous fluid, and paralysis of the parts supplied by the facial nerve. Slight haemorrhage from the ear is no positive sign, the moderate discharge also of a watery fluid alone is not characteristic, nor is facial paralysis. But pro- fuse and prolonged bleeding from the ear, or slight hoemorrhage, followed by a watery discharge, is, however, strongly indicative of a fracture; as is also a copious watery discharge directly following the injm’y. Facial paralysis, however, combined with either of these symptoms, renders the diagnosis complete. This watery discharge is now generally admitted to be an escape of cerebro-spinal fluid through a fracture of the petrous bone, passing across the internal auditory canal, and attended with rup- ture of the membrana tympani. I have known this to continue for eight days. In injuries to the mastoid process, if a local emphysema exists, the presence of a fr.acture may be diagnosed. Should the blow or fall have been upon the anterior part of the skull, the probabilities of the case point to fracture of the anterior fossa; and where any' injury to any of the nerves of the orbit can be made out, as indicated by local paralysis of some of the muscles of the eye, or when hmmorrhage has taken place beneath the conjunctiva, the diagnosis is certain. Hmmorrhage into the eyelids by itself is of no value as a diagnostic sign, although when it follows the accident at a later period and is consecutive to subconjunctival haemorrhage, it is a symptom of some importance. Falls upon the occiput commonly produce longitudinal fissures of the base. Copious and obstinate bleeding from the nose or pharynx is by no means unfrequent in a case of fractured base, and when accompanied with other suspicious symptoms is of diagnostic value. I have the