410 WOUNDS OP THE ARTERIES. On wounds of arteries. Complete division. Partial division. Escape of blood may be continuous and colour black. Bleeding from lower end of artery. Repair of wounded arteries. Primary adhesion. Healing by granulation, after Paget. Partial division of arteries more serious. Wounds of the Arteries. When an artery is completely bleeding may take place, the blood jetting forth per saltum, as it is called, with each pulsation of the heart. The blood is usually of a bright red colour, unless the patient be asphyxiated, or fully under the influence of some anajstbetic, when it is often as black as venous blood. Pressure upon the vessels above the wound arrests or diminishes the haemorrhage, and pulsation in the vessel below is lost. When, however, an artery is only partially wounded, either transversely, obliquely, or longitudinally, the bleeding will probably be less profuse; the blood, under these circumstances, moreover, rarely jets out as from a divided vessel unless the wound be very large, but wells up in a deep wound, or flows in a continuous stream, after the manner of venous blood. When red, its arterial nature can easily be recognised, but when black its recognition is more difficult. Should pressure, however, above the wound arrest the flow, and pulsation in the vessel below be lost, the probabilities of the blood being arterial are strengthened. It is an important fact to bear in mind, that when a large artery is partially divided justJeZoio a large anastomotic branch, bleeding will take place from the lower end of the wounded artery as well as from the upper, while pulsation in the vessel below will only be diminisbed. When heemorrhage takes place from a large vessel it is generally so profuse as to destroy life rapidly, unless instantly checked. When from a small it is less copious, and has a natural tendency to stop, at any rate for a time, and to give an opportunity for natural haemostatics to take effect. It is well, therefore, to consider now how wounded arteries heal, and by what means bleeding can naturally be arrested. Small wounds of arteries may, doubtless, heal by immediate union or primary adhesion, and larger may likewise for a time be closed by the clot of blood that covers the wound, or even by some stronger reparative material; but “ the closure is often ineffectual or only for a time, and fresh bleedings ensue, either increasing the accumulation of extravasated blood or pushing out the clots already formed. In this manner, with repeated hmmorrhages at uncertain intervals, the woxind in an artery is often kept open, and, at the end of two or three weeks may show no trace of healing, but rather appear widened and with softened everted edges. In such a case it is possible that the wound in an artery may still heal hy granulations, either rising from its edges or coalescing over it from adjacent parts; but the event is too unlikely to justify the waiting for its occurrence, if there be opportunity for surgical interference, and, even if healing should go so far as to close the opening in the artery yet is it likely to be insecure, for both the elastic tissue and smooth-fibred muscle on which its strength largely depends, are very slowly formed in scars. Hence, a form of traumatic aneurism seems not very rare, in which the sac is chiefly formed of scar-tissue, which closed the wound in the artery and then yielded to the pressure of the blood.”—Paget,Lectures,’ p. 204, ed. 3rd. Thus a partial is a more serious injury than a complete division of an artery, and requires as prompt surgical treatment, because the means adopted by nature in a divided vessel for the permanent arrest of bleed- ing are acting at a disadvantage in the one only wounded, and are rarely effectual. In practice, therefore, it is often the object of the surgeon to complete the division of a partly divided vessel, and thus to give