DISEASES OP THE JAWS, ETC. 540 jaw may die and be removed, leaving a movable jaw by the spontaneous formation of a new joint. The child, ajt. 8, from whom I removed the bone, illustrated below (Pig. 214), could move the jaw as well as if the condyle had never been destroyed, and, in ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.’ for 1869, I recorded another similar case. Is j)receded Necrosis of a bone is always preceded by symptoms of inflammation by iiiflara- such as swelling and pain, followed rapidly by suppuration, and the ma ion. formation of sinuses leading down to the bone, which may be felt by a probe. A single sinus below the jaw or in the neighbourhood may be due to the presence of a diseased tooth. ITg. 214. Portion of lower jaw removed for necrosis from a child set. 8, tlie movements of the jaw subsequently being perfectly regained. Treatment of neurosis. Of upper jaw. Of lower jaw. When confined to the alveolus. I' Teeatment.—When dead bone can be detected, either in the upper or lower jaw, there is only one form of practice which ought to be entertained, and that is removal. It should be removed, too, with as little disturbance as possible to the soft parts, or to the new bone-forming tissues such as the periosteum, and by the mouth. When this latter practice is impossible or impolitic from any cause, the sm’geon should take every care that his external incisions are made where afterwards they will be little seen. In necrosis of the upper jaw, the bone can nearly always be removed by means of incisions made beneath the cheek. An incision through the cheek never seems necessary. In necrosis of the lower jaw when incisions through the integument are demanded, they should be made below its lower border. When the dead bone is fixed, or rather before it has been thrown off from its attachments and before a new casing of bone has been formed, all operative interference must be condemned, particularly in the lower jaw, as there seems little room to doubt, that the muscles, acting upon the new bone before it has become con- solidated, may alter its shape and produce deformity. Under these circumstances, the surgeon should content himself with seeing that all pent-up pus has free exit, by means of incisions through the gum, also that the patient’s mouth is kept as clean as possible by frequent washing, and that his general condition is mamtained by means of tonic medi- cine and nutritious diet. When the necrosis is confined to the alveolus in which the temporary teeth are situated, great care should be taken that the parts beneath are not disturbed, and that the permanent teeth are not interfered with. Even when exposed these permanent teeth need not of necessity be removed. In young patients where much loss of bone has taken place, it seems desirable to have some artificial substitute, in order to prevent the occurrence of such an over-