255 FEIGNED AND HYSTERICAL DISEASE. always exaggerated, the objective inconsistent j the former being too Objective, had for truth, the latter inconsistent with experience. For example, the rigor of an ague may be siraxilated, while the hot and the sweating stage is impossible. Epileptic convulsions, catalepsy, or madness, may undoubtedly he imitated; but in all these, there will be, when present, some exaggeration or inconsistency not found in the real disease. Paralysis can also be readily simulated, but it will, pro- bably, be too complete; it will, on testing, more particularly when done unexpectedly, be associated with a greater degree of sensibility in the skin than is usually present. When of long standing it will not he attended with the usual wasting. Vomiting, coughing, or spitting of blood can he artificially produced, though under these circumstances the severity of the symptom will, probably, contrast strangely with the mildness of any others with which it may be attended. In fact, in feigned diseases, on a careful investigation into the history of the case, the succession of symptoms, their progress, inten- sity, and duration, some element will be brought out which is irrecon- cilable with truth, some suspicion that deception is at work will he excited, which, if worked out, must unmask the imposture and prevent error. The subjects of hysterical disease or of nervous mimicry are mostly On hysteria, what is called nervous and emotional. They have commonly “ a very unusual mental character: in the majority, there is something, notably, good or bad, higher or lower, than the average—something outstanding or sunken.”—Paget. In this affection “ every part of the body may become, under provocation, the seat of an apparent disease that in reality does not exist, it may, and often does, assume all the attributes of reality with an exactness of imitation which nothing short of careful and accurate diagnosis can distinguish from the real disease.”—Skey. In joint and spinal disease, the truth of this is most frequently seen, Brodie having stated “that among the higher classes of society at least four fifths of the female patients who are commonly supposed to labour under diseases of the joints labour under hysteria.” How, then, it may well he asked, is the hysterical affection to be Diagnosis, made out from the real ? How is the surgeon to avoid falling into the error of treating some functional derangement as organic disease ? In a general sense, it may with truth be laid down, that in hys- terical affection of a part, local pain and sensitiveness on manipula- tion, are always great, and hoar no relation to the amount of changes visible or to be detected in the part. The slightest touch excites pain, which probably a bold one fails to do; the pain too rarely, if ever, follows the anatomical course of any nerve or nerves, and the onset of the symptoms is generally more sudden and severe than that usually ushering in organic affections. Febrile disturbance or increase of tem- perature, moreover, rarely complicates the case however severe the local symptoms may be, and the nervous “ disturbance very rarely takes the form in which morbid nervous influence produces, not mimic, but real organic changes.”—Paget. In fact, all the subjective symptoms are much more severe than the objective, the latter being either very slightly marked or non-existing. For example, a girl is suddenly seized with severe and lasting pain in the hip, knee, or other joint, aggravated by movement or the slightest touch, and yet no visible alteration in its outline or structure can he detected, even after the lapse of many