ODONTOMES. 561 f( Odontological Society of London, and the case may, perhaps, be best ;i described as one of disrupted odontoplastic odontome. j In a case reported by the late Mr. Harrison, an odontoplastic odon- Spontaneous ii tome occupying the space between the incisors and molar teeth, came ®n“cleation. I away spontaneously. In one or two reported cases the tooth bulb having produced an : eccentric formation such as described, instead of an ordinary crown, : has afterwards assumed normal limits and formed fairly shaped roots. )l Coronary Odontomes.—In these the main outline of the tooth is Coronary H preserved, but an irregular outgrowth, more or less circumscribed, pro- odonto’ues. jects from the crown. Tliis outgrowth, having arisen while the crown structure. ; was in process of formation, consists of the coronal tooth structures, viz. : enamel, dentine, and possibly enclosed pulp. If small and involving ' the neck of the tooth, an outgrowth of this nature may be at first mis- ' taken for tartar. Somewhat allied to these cases are those in which a tooth presents one Allied . or two supernumerary cusps or supernumerary teeth merged with it. nialforma- I A small globular projection of enamel is also occasionally met with i on the root of a tooth, and has been ranged among odontomes by Salter, ' who, finding that it caps a cone of dentine, calls it a “ a submerged tooth I cusp.” The crown of a simple supernumerary tooth has been found attached in the same position, and probably these cases have a like origin. Radicular Odontomes.—This form of tumour, which in several Radicular recorded cases has attained the size of a chestnut, is found attached to odontome.s. the neck and root of a fully-formed tooth by a more or less constricted base, and results from an irregular outgrowth from the dentinal pulp. Structurally, radicular odontomes generally consist of osteo-dentine Structure. II more or less covered-in by a layer of dentine, with a coating of cementum externally. An odontome of this kind, embedded in hfront of the anterior margin of the ascend- I ing ramus of the lower jaw, and passing up behind the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, was recently removed by me at ' Guy’s. This tumour (sec Fig. 239) was attached to the lower wisdom tooth of a , woman set. 38. This patient had experienced no inconvenience from her mouth up to the oys of 30, when great swelling over the ascending ramus occurred, accompanied by closure of the jaws and excruciating j)ain. These symptoms—loith intervals of complete cessation for two or three months at a time recurred until the odontome, which was gradually being extruded, was removed (very easily) by extracting the tooth to which it was attached. In the case which is figured and reported at page 538 of this Radicul.ir volume, 1? ig. 212, a symmetrical enlargement of the whole root occurred odoutomc of producing a dilated hypertrophied tooth fang. * unique form. Odontoplastic and radicular odontomes are very rare, only a few cases of each in the human subject being recorded, but the recognition of the true nature of these tumours and of others which have a dental VOL. I. q« Fig. 239.