341 ADMINISTRATION OF ANESTHETICS. free from flaws or kinks. Inattention to these details may very possibly mar the success of an operation. Administration of anaesthetics.—The operator will find that he has Use of much more command over the eye when the patient is under the anaesthetics, infinence of an anaesthetic than when consciousness remains, and in by far the greater number of cases he will do well to administer one. Occasionally patients are met with who will bear operations most quietly; such should be operated on without anaesthesia; but if during the operation the patient become unsteady', or begin to strain, it is best not to risk failure, but to discontinue the operation and administer an anaesthetic. If the globe has been opened, it must be carefully guarded by a pad and bandage during the administration. If no anaesthetic be employed the operation should be performed as simply and quickly as possible; no speculum should be used, nor should the eye be fixed with forceps, but the operator should keep the lids open, and steady the globe with tbe fingers. Aftee-tkbitment.—Operations on the tear passages, removal of After- tarsal cysts and strabismus, require little or no after-treatment; the treatmeut. parts need only to be washed twice or three times a day with tepid water. After more severe operations on the eyelids, and in all cases where an incision has been made into the globe, the eye should be carefully covered with two small folds of lint, wetted with cold water, and secured by a single turn of bandage; the lint being kept wet and the eye bound up until tbe incision has healed and all irritation sub- sided. Wounds of the globe made in operations, as a rule, heal rapidly', union having frequently taken place at the end of twelve hours. The great danger after operations on the globe is the occurrence of inflammation. Inflammation, once set up, may subside shortly, leaving no trace Occurrence behind it; it may continue until more or less irreparable damage has 0/ iuttutnma- been done, or may run on to suppuration of portions or the whole ot the globe; the cornea is more liable to this change than any other structure. The symptoms of inflammation usually appear within the two days Time of immediately succeeding an operation, and little fear need be enter- onset, tained for the safety of the eyeball if all has gone well for a week. Occasionally, after cataract extraction, eyes have been lost through inflammation, or suppuration commencing at a later period, but these cases are rare, and probably it will be found that some damage has been done to the eye shortly before the symptoms appeared. The treatment of inflammatory changes consists in the local ab- Treatment of straction of blood from the temple by leeches, or the application of inflamma- the artificial leech; the use of fomentations of water, poppy-heads, or belladonna constantly applied ; the administration of opium in full doses, either alone or combined with mercury. The treatment must, of course, be varied according to the condition of the patient; should he be weakly and anmmic, we should be careful about bloodletting, and instead quinine and iron, with good living and a fair amount of stimu- lants, should be prescribed. Tbe local abstraction of blood, however, acts most beneficially in relieving pain, and should therefore be employed in cases where pain