554 FRACTURES OP THE JAW. Treatment ( fractures of lower jaw. pitus perceivable by the patient. “ The condyle,” says Heath, “ is drawn inwards and forwards by the pterygoideus externus, as can be ascertained by passing the finger into the mouth, and the jawbone is apt to become slightly displaced, so that the chin is turned towards the affected side and not from it, as is the case in dislocation.” I have had under my care a man set. 35, with a fracture of both sides of the jaw, just below the condyles, and with fracture of the symphysis, produced by a severe blow upon the jaw below the chin; and, from the displacement that followed the house surgeon thought it was a case of double dislocation; but on attempting to reduce it, it went in without the characteristic snap of dislocation. Ostitis and necrosis of the whole bone below the necks followed; yet a new jaw formed and the man recovered with good movement of the bone. Fracture of the coronoid process is very rare; and Sanson says that such a fracture never unites. Treatment.—When the bones can be brought into apposition, the treatment may be described as simple; and where difficulties are met with in reducing the fracture, the treatment is most difiicult and un- certain. In an ordinary case of fracture of the jaw, where no displace- ment, or very little exists, the common four-tailed bandage, a yard long, with a slit in the chin piece of about four inches, made and applied as illustrated in Fig. 230, is all that is necessary for temporary purposes, but for permanent treatment, in the few cases in which no displace- ment exists, it is well to mould on a splint of gutta percha, made according to the shape given below (b), and applied as seen in Fig. 231, A. When healthy teeth are present at the line of fracture they may Fig. 230. Fig. 231. Bandage and splint for fracture of lower jaw. be fastened together with wire, after the method of Hammond’s splint (Fig. 235). When difficulties are felt in the adjustment, as in double fracture, where the chin is much drawn down, a good pad may be firmly tied under the chin, or, a block of wood adjusted. In one case, I fixed a plaster cast, holding the jaw well in position by means of a piece of linen during the setting of the plaster. But in these cases, the surgeon’s ingenuity is often taxed to the utmost to meet the wants of the individual case.