AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 390 How to examine ear. Cerumen. Symptoms. Prognosis. and are of various forms. The silver speculum of Wilde, with a' round aperture at the narrow end, will be found as convenient as any, it being necessary to have three or four different sizes.* If available, sunlight, either direct or reflected from a white cloud, is, I think, the best mode of illumination, as it gives the" different tints of the meatus and tympanic membrane more truly" than any artificial light. Seating the patient near a window, with the ear to be examined away from the window, you receive the" rays on a mirror either held in the hand or placed on the fore-1 head, and reflect them into the meatus by inclining the mirror to the required angle. If you use the rays direct from the sun itself it is necessary that a plane mirror should be used, the usual concav^ mirror soon causing such an amount of heat to be felt at the spot oJ which the reflected rays are thrown that the patient cannot endure s' long examination. Shonld sufficient daylight not be obtainable, aiT argand burner, with or without a bull’s-eye lantern placed over it, will' act as a good substitnte. Having arranged yonr flood of light so that' it falls on the auricle and external meatus, you take the superior and posterior part of the auricle between the middle and index fingers o^ the left hand, and, pulling the auricle backwards and upwards, youj widen mone fully the lumen of the meatus, into which you introdueej by the right hand the small round end of the speculum. Passing it gently in by a slightly rotating motion, you reach a spot where, there] being no foreign body to occlude the view, if the meatus is of a normal] width the tympanic membrane will be exposed to view. On accom-1 plishing this, the external edge of the speculum is passed to the carej of the thumb and index fingers of the left hand, which move it ini different directions so as to throw rays on the different portions oy the canal and the tympanic membrane, while the right hand is left freM to use the mirror, or, placing the mirror on the forehead, to use anyl instruments which may be necessary. The most frequent change in the external meatus which comes befor^ the surgeon on thus looking into the canal is an accumulation of ceru-j men, known by its position, form, colour, and light reflection. Itj occurs on account of some hyperaemia of the ear, of which a very] common cause is the irritation arising from scratching the meatus with! pencils, pins, &c.; but anything which causes an increased flow of bloo« to the lining membrane of the meatus will cause a greater accumulal tion of cerumen than normal. It also occurs in those much exposes to the sun and dust, in those who perspire freely, and in the old, inj whom the cerumen ils denser and stiffer than in the young. fl The subjective symptoms caused by such accumulations are pain^ vertigo, confusion of ideas, tinnitus aurium, and deafness, the latter sym J ptom being often characterised by its sudden entrance and departure.^ The prognosis is not so favorable as is generally supposed. If aj vibrating tuning-fork placed on one of the incisors or on the middlej line of the vertex is not heard better, or so well, in the affected ear as] in the non-affected, you may expect some complication, and the merej removal of the cerumen will not probably be followed by much bene-j ficial result to the deafness. Toynbee gives, as the results of hisj removal of accumulations of cerumen from the meatus causing deaf-J ness, a table of 165 cases, of which 60 were cured, 43 were improved,^ and the remaining 62 were “either but slightly or not at all improved. M