DENTAL SURGERY. 564 shape, and the other teeth may have their corners rounded off, and in the case of the canine be notched. The shape of the first permanent I'lQ. 240a. Fro. 240b. Syphilitic teeth quite distinct from the honey- combed. Honey- combed teeth. Causes. molars is almost invariably altered (a fact, I believe, not hitherto pointed out), the suppression of their angles giving them a dome-like form, their size being often reduced, and the enamel absent from their masticatory surfaces.^ T^e above-described malformation is essentially due to a change in form of the dental pulp prior to its dentification. Some children, recently seen by me, present, together with great pecu- liarity of their eyes and a general weakness in the development of their dermal structures, the following peculiarities in their teeth :—The middle lobes are sharp, recurved, and excessively developed, while the lateral lobes are dwarfed. In these cases, however, the pointed form of tooth which results can be readily distinguished from the truncated cone-like form indicative of congenital syphilis, as the latter is due to a dwarfing of the central lobe and a leaning inwards of the lateral lobes. The syphilitic tooth with its conical form is also by no means to be confused with the teeth which present a narrowness of their cutting- edge due to an absence of enamel from the first-formed portion of the ci’own, a condition often seen in the so-called honeycombed teeth now to be noticed. The rocky or honeycombed condition of a tooth’s crown results from an irregular and insufficient development of enamel, producinghorizontal groovings or a pitting of its surface. Mr. Hutchinson considers that the most frequent cause of this defect is the administration of mercury in infancy; and in many cases seen by me it appears traceable to the use of one of the most popular of teething powders, which contains calomel together with an opiate. It is not, however, certain that convulsions and other iUnesses in childhood may not produce it. The first permanent molars on their masticatory surface most often show the absence of enamel, while the incisors and canine are affected to an extent which depends on the amount of their development while the agency which arrests the enamel formation is in action; the later formed bicuspids, second molars, and wisdom teeth, often altogether The irregularly formed enamel may be structurally defective, as shown by its discoloration, and this may conduce to decay, as does also the pitting of the enamel if it extends through to the dentine. In other cases the diminished size of these teeth, which prevents their being crowded and exposes their sides to healthful friction, renders them less obnoxious to decay than might have been expected. 1 The absence of enamel here mentioned may, however, be due to the administration of mercury, as the malformation typical of congenital syphilis may he seen well markeu without any enamel detect in cases uncomplicated by mercurial treatment. The same remark may be applied to the discoloration that iias been observed in syphilitic teetn.