340 OPERATIONS ON EYEBALL, ETC. the sides, the wrists resting on the patient’s head or face, in a position which allows of free movements of the hands and fingers. Position of patient and operator. Fig. 94. Position for minor operations. (Sitting.) Position for major operations. (Lying.) Every ophthalmic surgeon should learn to use his fingers, cultivate his sense of touch, and, if possible, become ambidextrous. Incisions. It will he found that incisions can be best made by holding the knife lightly between the thumb and first two fingers of whichever hand is most conveniently situated. In all operations incisions commencing at or situated entirely on the outer aspect of the globe should be made with the hand corre- sponding to that side, the opposite hand being employed upon the inner side. That is to saj', if the right eye is operated on, the right hand should be used to make an incision at its outer side, the left at its inner, and vice versa. Incisions above or below may be made with either hand; scissors should also be used with whichever hand is most favorably situated. In one operation, that for internal strabismus, the positions of patient and operator are somewhat difl’erent from those already described, the operator standing in front, at the side of the couch on the patient’s right, instead of behind his head. The scissors may be used with the right hand for both eyes, but in operating on the left the hands will have to be crossed. Condition of Before performing any operation the operator should look carefully instruments, to the conditiou of the instruments he is about to use. Knives should be passed through a piece of thin leather tightly stretched on a small metal cylinder, and care taken to ascertain that they have good points and that there are no notches in the blades. Scissors should be carefully examined and tried; it should be seen that forceps close perfectly and are free from rust or dirt; silk for sutures should be black, as fine and strong as possible, well waxed, and