141 MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OF TUMOURS. cancerous. These are less likely to infect the viscera than the first two varieties, which are the most infectious of all tumours, though they are very far from being the only kinds of infectious tumours. LYMPHOMA. Fig. 33. The name lymphoma is given to such growths as have a microscopic structure like that of lymphatic glands; in particular, which have a finely reticular meshwork, connected with which are some fixed cells at tolerably regular intervals, not unlike the fixed cells of connective tissue, but generally larger. Within the meshes of this network are numerous cells, which resemble lymph-cells, and hence are also like pus- cells and white blood-cells. The proportion of network to the con- tained lymphoid cells is variable; sometimes the quantity of fibre is great, and the structure is then like lymph-gland tissue hardened by chronic inflammation. In other cases the proportion of cells becomes very large, while the network grows very delicate and open textured. The fixed stellate cells here appear to multiply, and produce a progeny of the loose movable cells in the meshwork, as if infected by the latter. The whole mass then appears as fine filaments making hold meshes, which are filled with round granular cells,like lymph-cells, hut generally larger than these, and having large nucleus and many bright nucleoli. Such cells at first appear to make up the whole substance, hut they easily brush or wash out of the meshes, leaving the network very conspicuous. It will be noticed that the degree of structure here described is very rudimentary. Indeed, sections of ante-mortem blood-clot from within a vein (see figure) closely correspond to the description. So also does tubercle in the more recently formed outer edge of it, where its texture is very like blood-clot; hence it is by some classed with lymphoma. Scarlatinous tonsils and typhoid Peyer’s patches likewise have lymphoma structure. However, the plan of structure is so meagre that it is not enough to form a bond of union between diseases clini- cally so remote. When found in the form of tumours, more properly so called, lymphoma generally takes its rise in the lymphatic glands; those of the neck are especially liable to it, then those of the abdomen and of the mediastinum. It is also found in the alimentary canal, especially the small intestine and stomach, and in the spleen, liver, kidney, &c. Formations of a similar structure have been met with in various organs in leukaemia, chiefly in the liver, in the form of small gi-ains of a pale substance. Lymphoma may prove malignant, that is, infectious to parts around, especially when the cellular elements are very numerous (in which case the tumour is called lympho-sarcoma by Virchow); it then corresponds to a part of what used to be included under the whole name medullary cancer, which, as formerly used, would include also soft sarcoma and soft carcinoma. Indeed, these tumours, when the cell- elements greatly preponderate, become very much like each other, if not undistinguishable as far as their mere structure is concerned. Virchow, ‘ Die Krankliaften Geschwulste,’ 1862-5.- . .. ............. .ci. vjcaeiiwaisie, looi-o.—Paget, ‘ Surdcal Patholoey,’ 1870. -Ahernelhy. ‘On rumours.’---Pathological Society Txaui.’-Wilks and Moxon7‘Patho- IpSy-—BiUroth, E16niens cle Pathologie Cliirurgicale,’1868.—Holmes ‘Svstpm nf Surgery,’ 1870.’-‘ Debate on Cancer of Pathologicia Society,’ 1874 ’ ^