TREATMENT OF DECAT. 579 Represents the masticatory surfaces of second upper bicuspid and first molar. The darkening of the decay beneath shows through the enamel on the bicuspid. A searcher is introduced to explore the mesial surface of the molar for decay. The same teeth; the front surface of the molar, having presented superficial decay, has been chiselled down, which gives space for stop- ping instruments to be brought to bear upon the deeper cavity in the bicuspid. The same teeth with decay more advanced. The cavity in the front of molar, proving too deep for “cutting-out,” is reached by stopping instruments introduced vid the cavity in the bicuspid. The latter tooth having had the enamel on its masti- catory surface too much undermined for preser- vation, will have its contour restored by a stop- ping introduced into the dovetailed-shape cavity, here seen from above. Fig. 243. A In the bicuspid the pulp has been just exposed, but being healthy has had a carbolised cap and a non-conducting stopping placed over it, and has developed a protective shield of secondary dentine. A gold stopping is seen in the molar, of a shape that would ensure its retention if solid. Commencing decay is also shown at the masti- cating surface of this tooth. Same teeth. Thepulp of the bicuspid is sup- posed to have been destroyed with arsenious acid and withdrawn from the pulp chamber, which, with its extension to the end of the root, is represented as filled, the lost portion of the crown being also restored. The effects of unchecked disease are seen in the molar, the anterior root being occupied by purulent fluid, and its apex bathed with pus of an alveolar abscess. The posterior root, in which some living pulp still remains, is represented as exostosed, but might with equal truth have been depicted as covered with thickened and inflamed periodontum. When a pulp has been extirpated immediately after its loss of vitality the root canals should be stopped to their apices forthwith, but when a dead pulp has remained in a tooth for any time a thorough purification by the use of carbolic acid must precede the stopping. Progressive decay illustrated, with its treatment at its several stages.