92 SYPHILIS. Capable of inoculatiou. Treatment of serpiginous ulceration. Question of marriage after syphilis. chancre; the opening in the groin spreading in crescentic patches of ulceration, one part of the sore increasing while a second is healing; when the cicatrix forms it presents a smooth glazed appearance. This ulceration is most obstinate, indeed, medicine appears to have little or no influence on its progress, and it may so spread as to extend over the thighs and lower part of the abdomen, and continue at intervals for years, but wearing itself out at last. I have seen one case in which it spread as high as the umbilicus and as low as the knee. The disease at one time promises to heal and then spreads without any clear cause. It is often found, too, in apparently healthy subjects, and appears to follow some course of its own that is not yet understood. It should be added that this sore is capable of being inoculated upon the same sub- ject, the point of inoculation taking on the same action. Teeatment.—Mercury and iodide of potassium appear to have little or no influence on this malady j and if the view indicated by its course be correct, that the disease is not syphilitic, such a result is only what should be expected. The local treatment of the sore seems to be the most important, and the best practice consists in the local appli- cation of some strong caustic, such as nitric acid, carbolic acid, or the cautery, either galvanic or actual, the patient being under the influence of some ansesthetic. Opium in moderate doses is of use, and so also are tonics, but in a general way the subjects of this aftection are in good health. In several instances I have found a sea voyage of more value than any other treatment. In three cases the sore rapidly healed after the operation of skin grafting had been performed. When may a man who has had syphilis marry ? is a question which is often asked, and, to answer it with any degree of confi- dence is no easy task, assuming, as I do, that the opinions laid down in these pages are correct, that a man who has once had syphilis is never free from its influence, and that the poison once in the body may reveal its presence a quarter of a century after all external evidence of its existence in the form of local disease has disappeared. A man who has had syphilis may, therefore, when he marries, so affect the ovum of his wife as to cause its death, or produce some evidence of disease, or feebleness; or if the wife be healthy and he himself in good condition and free from evidence of the disease, the offspring may escape altogether and appear as healthy as that of other uninfected parents. Indeed, it would appear that if a man marries when in robust or good health a year after all evidence of the disease has vanished, he may be the father of a healthy child; but if his general condition fails and he becomes cachectic the poison seems to have the power of reasserting its influence and manifesting its presence by some feeble or even diseased condition of the subsequent offspring. When the mother is affected with the disease the same risks are run. Every parent who has had syphilis runs the risk of giving birth to feeble or iliseased offspring; these risks are diminished by the general vigour of the parents, and increased by diminished power. No man should marry so long as the slightest taint of the disease mani- fests its presence, but if iu good health, and free from all evidence of its presence for a year, marriage may be contracted.^ To ask for a longer delay when such a step is contemplated is unfair and unneces- sary ; a risk must be run, and the lapse of a longer period will not lessen it.