584 DENTAL SURGERY, Its formation Preventive treatment. Symptoms. A possilde cause of pymmia. Gumboil. Fistulous openings on face, &c. Treatment of alveolar abscess. gum, and tins is especially likely to occur in the case of lower impacted wisdom teeth. Par more commonly, pus, derived from the pulp chamber or due to the breaking-down of inflammatory lymph, which has been thrown out about the apex of the fang, is contained in a cir- cumscribed abscess which embraces the end of the root (see Pig. 243, e) and occupies an excavation in the maxilla. Preventive treatment consists in the complete clearing-out of the root canals and their thorough purification with carbolic acid, this, with the administntion of a saline purgative and the local abstraction of blood by the application of a leech to the gum over the root, affords thi best chance of cutting short periodontal inflammation that tends to the formation of abscess. The formation of an alveolar abscess is usually preceded by great local tenderness to pressure on or over the roitof the tooth, and attended by pain of a throbbing character, sometimes iy rigors and considerable constitutional disturbance. The possible occurrence of pyaemia from this cause is not to be overlooked. Grat serous effusion into the cancellated bone and the soft surrounding tssues not infrequently takes place, mistaken sometimes for erysipelastnd occa- sionally resulting in suppuration; the closure of the eye of t»e affected side, or a swelling from the lower jaw reaching half dow the neck may thus be produced. An abscess connected with an nper molar sometimes causes a fulness over the lower jaw. When ar abscess is formed the contained pus tends to find an exit either throug a gumboil (so-called), or by a fistulous opening on the face, &c.; an )pening on the gum being naturally formed when the mucous memrane is re- flected from gum to cheek at a distance from the alveolar brder, and a canal through the body of the bone, if the root of the toth extends below such reflection of the mucous membrane. An alveolar abscess attached to the upper teeth may erforate the antrum, when attached to an incisor may open into the nees, or when connected with a lateral incisor may pass backwards bet\2en the com- pact layers of the palatine process of the superior maxil. or between the periosteum and the hard palate, and open through or ihind the soft palate. It may also form fistulous openings on the face ear the inner canthus or under the edge of the malar bone. An alveok abscess con- nected with lower incisors may open under or in froi of the chin, and above or under the margin of the jaw when contcted with the other lower teeth; from a wisdom tooth the pus mayass forwards to the canine, backwards to the fauces, or escape at t) angle of the jaw. Pus from an alveolar abscess may pass down ts neck, and in one case it found final exit below the clavicle, and a another and fatal case it reached the armpit. The pus of an alveolar abscess that distends the mious membrane of the gum or cheek should of coiu’se be evacuated > an incision, if the extraction of the tooth does not suffice for the puiDse. A chronic gumboil may be regarded as a safety vent; but abscses with such a fistulous opening on the gum may sometimes be cud by pumping carbolic acid through the root of the tooth until ifescapes on the gum, followed-up by stopping of the root. When alveolar abscess has formed and does not tel to open on the o-um, but causes a distension of the bone over it, tfither with local rnflammation, the tooth, as a rule, should be extractewithout delay to prevent further mischief, although in some cases a clring out of the I