705 FISTULA IN RECTO. It should always be remembered that an anal fistula may accompany Fistula may severe rectal disease, such as stricture or ulceration, or that it may be connected with disease of the pelvic bones, &c. In the case of an old dis'eases. man with an enormous abscess between the base of the bladder and the rectum, constitutional symptoms were very' severe till two deep incisions were made on either side of the perinaeum, giving exit to a quantity of pus, when an excellent recovery ensued. In this instance it was a ques- tion whether the prostate gland was in fault, hut no other symptoms of such a complication could be ascertained. Treatment of Treatment.—In cases of anal abscess free incision is the best anai abscess, practice, which should be made as soon as fluctuation can be felt externally or through the bowel. Deep-seated abscesses in these regions should not be left to natural processes to open. When the abscess is in front of the anus and rectum, au early opening may be called for on account of the retention of urine to which it may give rise. The incision should be made from without inwards, in a line radiating towards the anus. In deep-seated abscesses, one or two fingers may when deep be inserted well into the rectum, and the abscess pressed forwards seated, before the incision is made, a sharp straight bistoury being the best instrument to use. A piece of oiled lint should be inserted into the wound, and kept there for a day. In a case I saw, in 1872, owing to the neglect of making an early Consequence opening, emphysema and phlegmonous inflammation of the perinmum, of«ot making scrotum, penis, and abdomen even up to the axilla took place, a free opening communication evidently exi.sting between the bowel and the abscess. The patient died from the constitutional irritation of the disease. The sloughing of the cellular tissue was very extensive and the foetor of the sloughs was something to remember. After the abscess has been opened, the patient should be kept at rest in the horizontal posture, water dressing applied to the wound, and the most perfect cleanliness observed, laxatives being given when the motions are hard, and also tonics to improve the health. When a fistula exists, the best operation is its division into the Trcntment bowel, the action of the sphincter ani having, doubtless, a powerful in- fluence in retarding repair. The bowels should previously be cleared by a mild purge two days before the operation, and an enema given on the morning of its performance. The patient should be placed on the side upon which the fistula exists, with the legs well drawn up, and brought to the edge of the bed or couch, such position being better than that on the elbows and knees, or the stooping over a chair. Aji assistant should separate the buttocks. The surgeon ought Operation of then to introduce a fine probe-pointed grooved director into one of ilividing a the fistulous openings, and, with the greatest gentleness, guide it through the fistula. Anything like force on the part of the sphincter will excite resistance to its introduction and cause pain. When the end of the probe passes into the bowel through the internal opening, all that is required has been effected, and if difficulty he experienced in doing this, the well-greased index finger of the opposite hand can be carefully inserted into the rectum and the internal opening felt for, through which, when found, the end of the probe can readily he guided into the bowel. When no internal opening exists (a rare condi- tion), the director must be forced through the bowel at the upper part of the sinus. VOL. I. 45