320 STAPHYLOMA OF SCLEROTIC. Abrasions. Penetrating wounds. Treatment. Burns. Treatment.—The eye should be kept carefully bandaged with lint soaked in belladonna lotion till the abrasion has healed. Penetrating wounds of the cornea generally involve the iris or lens; in the former case an adhesion of the iris to the cornea (anterior synechia) is likely to be formed, or iritis set up; in the latter the lens will probably become opaque, a traumatic cataract being developed. Very extensive wounds of the cornea may allow the escape of the lens or vitreous. Treatment.—The eye should be kept carefully bound up with lint soaked in belladonna lotion, and in cases where the lens has been wounded, or iritis set up, a solution of atropine, one grain to one ounce of water, should he dropped into the eye from four to six or eght times daily. Should the lens swell and cause pain and increase of tension, it must he removed without delay, or iridectomy must be performed. Iridectomy may have to be performed at some future time for optical reasons, or to obviate the irritation caused by dragging on an anterior synechia. Traumatic cataract may also require to be treated. Burns of the cornea by lime, hot metals, &c., usually occur in con- junction with like injuries of the conjunctiva; they usually leave behind them opacities of greater or less extent and density, according to the severity of the injury, or may cause sloughing and destruction of the whole or greater part of the cornea. Treatment, the same as that of burns of the conjunctiva. THE SCLEROTIC AND EPISCLERAL TISSUE. Episcleritis. Treatment. Staphyloma of sclerotic. Inflammation of the sclerotic or episcleral tissue, or more commonly of both together, is a somewhat rare disease; it is characterised by the presence of purple swollen patches, covered by enlarged conjunctival vessels, and situated usually about the insertion of the recti muscles. The purple patches often disappear from one portion of the globe, and appear again at another; the inflammation is chronic in its course, but subsides after a time, leaving some discoloration of the affected part; it is very liable to recur. It occasionally follows operations for strabismus. Treatment.—Sedative applications, as decoction of poppy-heads, or belladonna fomentation, should be used three or four times a day, and if there be much conjunctival vascularity or any mucous discharge some astringent lotion, as chloride of zinc di’ops (see Formul®, p. 309) should also be employed. Any constitutional treatment that may appear called for should be adopted. In some cases tonics do most good; others, again, may be greatly benefited by a course of mercury or iodide of potassium. This disease is usually described as “ episcleritis.” Staphyloma.—A bulge of the sclerotic may occur from softening of its structure by inflammatory changes, which usually commence in the choroid . , ..... , , Staphyloma may be met with m the ciliary region (ciliary stapliy- loma), about the equator (equatorial staphyloma), or near the optic nerve (posterior staphyloma). Little can be done in the way of treatment.