INJUKIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. 49S On air in veins. Mortality. Symptoms. Treatment air in veins. Artificial respiration progress; each one probably indicating some suppurative change. Local pain and sleeplessness are common accompaniments, and in cases that cease to be local and have an infective tendency those known as typhoid symptoms occur. When blood poisoning or pymmia appears, the symptoms are such as have been described in an early chapter. On the Presence of Air in Veins. That air may find its way to the heart through an open vein and cause sudden death, is a clinical fact with which all surgeons should be familiar, also that it generally occurs during the removal of tumours about the neck and axilla, amputations at the shoulder-joint, and operations or wounds involving the cervical or other veins. It has likewise occurred in uterine surgery from the injection of air or gas, &c. Two thirds of the patients affected die from the accident, half within a few minutes, others living hours or a few days. The accident is favoured by a thickened state of the vein, and is generally indicated . during the progress of an operation by a sudden gurgling, hissing, or bubbling sound in the wound, associated with venous bleeding, sudden . faintness, and insensibility of the patient, or convulsions, probably terminating in death. When this result does not at once transpire there will be laboured and irregular respiration, tumultuous action of the heart and feeble pulse, the lividity of the patient gradually disappearing; the heart then regaining its natural action, and the ■ patient recovering. Bubbles of air may at times be seen in the wound. In some cases, the patient will give a sudden cry with the first onset of the symptoms. After death, evidence of the admixture of air with the blood has; been found such as bubbles in the vessels of the brain, or in the large ■ venous trunks and arteries. In some cases air has been found in the right cavities of the heart. Where a suspicion of this cause of death i exists, the heart and large vessels should be opened under water to' make manifest the escape of air-bubbles—one single bubble indicating : air in the heart, and many, air in the vessels. Experiments on animals • by Erichsen, and by a French commission, tend to confirm this obser- • vation. Treatment.—How to deal with these cases has now to be consi- ■ dered, and, without doubt preventive are more important than: curative measures. In dealing with large veins, or, indeed, any veins ? near their cardiac ends, the surgeon should be careful to apply pressure ; and to maintain it during the operation; while in some instances f it is more expedient to ligature before dividing or hvisting them. When the bubbling sound has been heard, pressure must at once ;■ be applied to the spot where the bubbles appear. When a large: vein has been wounded by accident and its division is not required, the opening must be taken up by forceps and carefully closed with a fine silk ligature. The surgeon should always avoid large veins when it is possible. When air has been admitted into the heart and its action interfered with, the surgeon’s aim should be to keep up its action and help the respiratory act by artificial means such as by cold water on the face and thorax, stimulants, as ammonia to the nostril, &c. Aniussat ascribed recovery in one of his cases to pressure upon the chest, leaving the opening in the vein free, to allow of the escape of the ad-