PENETRATING WOUNDS OP THE PAEIETES. 607 sion through the perinseum into the organ, as in lithotomy, is the better practice, as it is when the bladder is ruptured from a fracture of the pelvis. Injury to the uterus, when large from pregnancy, deserves a passing Injury to notice, for such cases are serious. A contused organ may inflame, and uterus. I be followed by absorption or miscarriage, or should pregnancy con- i tinue, its structure may be so altered as to be liable to rupture. I have known also an intra-uterine fracture of a child’s thigh to take place as a consequence of a fall. In obstetric works cases are recorded 1 in which a distinct rupture of the organ followed. Eupture of an ovarian cyst from a blow is also recorded, and, under Ruptured t certain circumstances a good result may take place; all obstetricians ovarian cyst. I have met with such cases. As a rule, however, a fatal peritonitis ! follows. Eupture of the diaphragm is an accident that occurs in practice, but Ruptured i difficult to diagnose. It is generally the consequence of some violent ^aphragm. ; injury, such as a crush, or the passage of a heavy wheel over the waist. In such cases the injury is complicated, and usually with hernia of the abdominal contents into the thorax. This injury can only occur on the left side. Dr. Wilks, in the ‘ Lancet’ for 1858, reported three instances of this diaphragmatic hernia, and pointed out that excessive ' thirst was the most prominent symptom in each. I had the oppor- I tunity of seeing these three cases, and others since have come under notice, and this symptom of thirst seemed to be most characteristic; thirst insatiable. In January, 1872, a case of this kind came under my cai’e with this symptom well marked. Wounds of the Abdomen, involving Parietes and Viscera. The parietes of the abdomen are often wounded by sharp substances, whether by accident or design, and so long as the wounds are confined to the parietes the danger is small. When the peritoneum is punctured or perforated, the viscera are also probably involved, and, under such circumstances, the case becomes serious. In rarer instances the intes- tines protrude, when an additional element of danger is added. Wounds of the parietes alone require the same treatment as wounds Wounds of of any other part. The surface should be well cleansed, and all foreign parietes. bodies removed. Hmmorrhage should be arrested by torsion or ligature, and the edges of the wound brought together ndth sutures. In deep or ' lacerated wounds, where the risk of suppuration between the muscles or fascia is great, absolute rest in the horizontal position should be enjoined, the muscles being thus relaxed. When suppuration appears, the sur- geon must he careful to let out all fluid either by reopening the wound, or, by a fresh opening. In all wounds of the parietes, the surgeon should be particularly careful to arrest bleeding at once, and to let out anything like pus as early as possible. All 'punctured wounds should ‘ be left open; when bleeding persists, the wound should be enlarged and \ the vessel secured. I Penetrating wounds of the parietes. f There is always a diflfiiculty in diagnosing these cases; that is, in Penetrating I making out the true nature of the accident, more particularly in J punctured wounds. . Wien the depth of the wound is known by the Diagnosis I: extent of insertion of the ofEeuding body and the relative position of difficult as to li the viscera at the wounded spot also, some notion as to its nature may extent.