curvature of the spine. Anterior view. Posterior view. Guy’s Hosp. Mus., No. 1000™. Taken from Emma J—, set. 14. attention, and the alteration in the spine becomes thereby a secondary matter. But in the great majority of eases of lateral curvature, the When due to spinal affection is the result of impaired health, and constitutional debility. remedies are demanded. The treatment must be directed to an im- provement of the general health, and tonics, such as iron, quinine, and cod-liver oil, should be administered. Good air and good food are essential, and in certain cases local treatment is of great value. The feeble muscles and weakened ligaments should have rest, though they are to be kept in health by moderate exercise, they are never, how- ever, to be fatigued. If fatigue be experienced from walking one hour, such exercise must be curtailed to a shorter period. If backache be pro-] duced by exertion, less must be taken. Exercise is to be allowed, but not to the extent of producing fatigue. Sitting and standing ought not to be sanctioned. The patient should recline at stated intervals in any posi-' tion that gives the greatest ease. When the deformity is definite and the dorsal curve is to the right side, as is nearly always the case, the patient should rest upon that side with a pillow beneath the right arm ' the weight of the body in that position acting as an extending force upon the curved spine, and thereby tending to reduce the curve. By^ resorting to this practice two or three times a day for a definite period,' depending upon the nature and severity of the affection, much good- may be obtained and very severe curvatures remedied. Cold sponge” or shower baths, if they can be borne, are always beneficial, so also is a moderately firm bed, a'spring mattress being better than a feather bed.' Gentle calisthenic exercises are valuable adjuncts to treatment when practised with discretion, and particularly the voluntary vertical ex- CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. place to determine the cause of the deformity. Should there be any structural disease, such as a growth, or carious bone, these will require Fig. 83. Fig. 83.