AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC. 514 Treatment. Excision. Caustics not advised. Removed by the galvanic cautery. Recurrence of disease. destroys life by exhaustion, and may do so by secondary deposits in the lungs or viscera, but far less frequently than in carcinoma. Treatment.—There is only one treatment that can be recommended, and that is, the speedy removal of the disease. When once the nature of the case is clear the sooner the growth is taken away the better; and, in doing this, the surgeon must also deal freely with the surrounding parts. He had better err by removing too much than too little of the surrounding tissues. To tease the parts with mild caustics is bad prac- tice, as it merely irritates and rarely destroys the whole growth. Caustics cannot, as a rule, be recommended. Excision is probably the best method. When the disease is superficial, it may be sliced off, leaving the parts to granulate; when it involves more of the lip, a V-shaped piece may be taken out, the two edges being brought together as in harelip. When much of the lip is affected, the whole must be removed, and a new lip formed by bringing up the soft parts from the chin as indicated in Figs. 187, 188. I have, however, with the galvanic cautery removed many superficial cancerous tumours of the lip with success, having isolated the growth with pins, and then removed it with the wire passed beneath them. After the removal of the disease, a cure may follow; but in the Fig. 187. Fig. 188. Diagram showing the hnes of incision for new lip after removal of a cancer. Diagram showing position of flaps when brought up. majority of cases, a return takes place, and generally in the same spot. Similar treatment must again be resorted to, even to a second and third operation, as there seems reason to believe, that, after each opera- tion, a longer interval of immunity may be promised. Thus, a man who had a cancer of the lip removed a year after its appearance was well for two years, when a second operation was required. He remained well for three years, when a third was performed, and this time four years elapsed before a return took place. It was then excised for a fourth time. In another case, a man, set. 65, had a cancer of his lip removed fifteen years before he came under my care. He remained well for eight, when, the disease returning a second operation was demanded; and seven years after this he was well. Epithelioma of the lip is of slow growth. I have removed one from a man, set. 74, of twenty years’, and another from a man, set. 50, of eight years’ growth. Horny Horny growths may spring from the lip as from other parts of the growl s. cutaneous surface. (Prep. 1678®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus.)