AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC. 507 untie the arm and apply a pad to the wound, opening a vein in the other arm. In fat subjects there is occasionally some difiSculty in finding a vein. '• Friction of the surface of the forearm will at times help the surgeon, ) or, the application of a hot flannel round the arm, which should he I made to hang down by the side of the body. When these means fail 1 and venesection is imperative, a vein of the foot may be opened. In opening the jugular vein, great care must be taken not to Avoid air I admit air into it by the removal of the thumb during the opera- ^ i tion and until the pad has been adjusted, otherwise life may be en- ; dangered. Gross, Dr. S. Jl'., ‘American Journ. of Med. Science,’ 1867 and 1871.—Callender, I ‘ Holmes’s System of Surgery,’ 2nd ed., 1870.—Travers, ‘ Surgical Essays,’ 1818.— I Langenbeck, of Berlin, ‘ .irchiv fur Klinisclie Chir.,’ 1860.—Arnott, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. XV, 1829.—Lee, Henry, ‘Disease of Veins,’ 1866—Greene, yamej S., Dorchester, I Mass., ‘American Journ. of Med. Science,’ 186-t.—Gay, ‘Varicose Diseases of Leg,’ : 1868. TliE SURGERY OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. CHAPTER XII. AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND TONSIL. Wounds of the Lip. Undkk all circumstances these wounds should be well cleansed and Wounds of all foreign bodies removed. They should always be brought together j by sutures, which ought, if any gaping exists, to be deeply inserted, as i less deformity is likely to follow this practice than when the parts are I left to granulate. Superficial wounds in the inside from the teeth may S be left to granulate. When much bleeding exists the surgeon should i examine the part with care, as Erichsen adduces a case in which so I much blood was lost from the coronary artery, swallowed, and brought ; up again by vomiting, as to lead to the suspicion of some internal I injury. Sutures in the lip are almost always removable on the second I or third day. Plaster, as a rule, is not required. Congenital Fissures of the Lips occur more frequently as harelip than in any other form. Sir W. Fer- Fissures of « gusson has, however, quoted three cases in his ‘ Practical Surgery,’ ^'Ps- in which the fissure extended from the angle of the mouth, in one N case to the malar bone, in the second tow’ards the angle of the jaw, and 1 in the third to the base of the lower jaw. The treatment of these should be the same as for harelip.