700 SURGEEY OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. For ulcer in the rectum. Stricture of rectiun. Cnucerous disease. Use of speculum. Introduction of hand into rectum. are taken in at a glance, and understood. A digital examination should then be employed to confirm or refute the suggestions thus taken in by the eye. To do this well, the index finger must be thoroughly anointed with lard or ointment, it being a good plan previously to fill the nail with a piece of soap. It should then be applied to the anus, and the patient told to bear down, as in doing this the sphincter is relaxed. The surgeon can then with ease, and without pain, intro- duce his finger. When an ulcer exists at the anus, pain will be caused by, and spasmodic resistance offered to, the introduction of the finger, and, with the pulp of the finger slowly moved round the anus, the ulcer will probably be felt. It should be stated, however, that in many cases, this ulcer will be seen by a careful drawing down of the skin of the anus till the margin of the mucous membrane becomes visible. A spongy nodular feel of the mucous membrane just within the sphincter will suggest internal hemorrhoids; a local, tender, and raw surface, the probability of a simple ulcer; a circular, indurated raw surface that of a syphilitic sore, while a cancerous ulcer is knowm by an infiltrated nodular and thickened surface. A stricture wdthin two inches of the anus can always be detected by its annular form or the obstruction which it causes. When a healthy piece of bowel separates the anus from the stricture or ulceration, the probability of the disease being cancerous is rendered great, Wlien no such healthy tissue exists, syphilitic disease is rendered probable. A digital examination will always detect the presence of scybala or impacted faeces, and also the encroachment of uterine or pelvic tumours in women, and pros- tatic tumours in men. To confirm these opinions thus formed, a speculum may be used, which should be introduced, well warmed and greased in the same way as the finger. Mr. Curling says, “ when the mischief is high up in the rectum let the patient stand on the left leg, with the right thigh and leg bent, the foot resting on a chair. Tell the patient to strain. This action will then force the parts down.” I have found this method of examination serviceable. Mr. Allingham “ advises the prone position, with the hips well elevated upon hard pillows, to such an inclination that the intestines will gravitate towards the diaphragm, so that when expiration takes place the rectum becomes patulous, and you can see as far as the sigmoid flexure perfectly distinctly.” This mode of examination, he informs us, was suggested by Dr. Marion Sims. (‘ On Diseases of the Rectum,’ 1871.) The speculum represented in fig. 288, as made for me by Krohne, is the one I prefer. The practice of introducing the whole hand into the rectum has been frequently adopted by several good surgeons, and, from my own personal experience, I believe it to be of value, more parti- cularly for diagnostic purposes, in cases of suspected disease of the rectum above the brim of the pelvis, in pelvic or abdominal affections. In the female patient, it is more readily performed than in the male. The operation, however, is neither easy nor free from risk, since lacera- tion of the rectum has been recorded. It should be performed with the patient under the influence of an anajsthetic, and with extreme slow- ness (five minutes may well be spent in passing the sphincter ani); the hand should be well greased and introduced with a screwing motion. When the baud has passed within the rectum, much care is required. I I