356 DIVERGENT STRABISMUS. Divergent sinibismus. Causes. 1 Cure by glasses. Division of externiii rectus. Operation of readjust- ment. Introduction of sulurcs. In the first two of these no operation is advisable; the third may sometimes be remedied by operative interference. Divergent _ strabismus, as already stated, is often the result of myopia; it is usually consequent on high degrees of the anomaly, and is brought about as follows:—The highly myopic individual requires to bring objects very near the eyes to see them distinctly, consequently a very high degree of convergence is necessary to keep both visual lines directed to the same point; now, not only has a high degree of convergence to be maintained, but in myopia the length of the eyeball and the consequent impairment of its mobility place the internal recti at a disadvantage. Moreover, in order to direct the visual lines of the myopic eyes to the same point, a greater proportionate amount of convergence is required than in emmetropia. As a consequence, the internal rectus of one eye sooner or later becomes wearied and gives in, and the eye deviates outwards, binocular vision being sacrificed. Treatment.—Many cases of divergent strabismus may be remedied by the use of concave glasses, which enable the individual to see dis- tinctly at a distance up to which convergence of the visual lines can be maintained without undue strain of the internal recti muscles. If in spite of the use of glasses the divergence continues, it must be remedied by operation. In cases where the eye only deviates outwards, after an object has been looked at for some considerable time, subcon- junctival division of the external rectus of the deviating eye may suffice for a cure; but iu cases where one or both eyes diverge con- stantly, and the visual lines can only be made to meet in one point by a great effort, or not at all, the operation of “readjustment” must be performed. This operation can be performed as follows:—The patient being placed in the usual position (Pig. 94, p. 340) and thoroughly ana:s- thetised, the operator should stand behind, fix the lids open with a wire speculum; with scissors make an incision through the conjunc- tiva and subconjunctival fascia, below the insertion of the external rectus; hook up the tendon, and divide it subconjunctivally close to the sclerotic. An incision should then be made through conjunctiva and subcon- junctival fascia, about midway between the insertion of the internal rectus and inner margin of the cornea, of such a length as to reach about two Hues above and a like distance below the margins of its tendon, which should then be hooked up and divided. The muscle and subconjunctival fascia should be freely separated from the parts beneath, and together with the conjunctiva turned back towards the caruncle. Two curved needles holding fine silk should then be passed through the tissues next the margin of the cornea, and the silks firmly tied, two free ends being left; the needles should then he carried from within outwards, through the muscle, subconjunctival fascia, aud conjunctiva, as near the inner canthus as possible, and the silk drawn throuirh; a considerable portion of the muscle and other tissues should then be removed with scissors, the free ends of the two fine pieces of silk and the portions to which the needles are still attached then tied firmly together (the eye being rolled well by an assistant as the knots are pulled tight), and the ends ot tue two sutures cut off close.