CANCEROUS TUMOURS. 118 Has no special appearances or symptoms. 1 Tendency to I involve neighbouring tissues. To produce enlargement of lymphatic ’ glauds. Presumptive evidence. I Soft or : medullary cancer. Characters. Hard eancer. Characters. it may appear as a distinct and isolated growth, being then, in surgical language, described as tuberous (Fig. 403). What, therefore, are the symptoms by which a tuberous cancer may be known ? And first of all, has the tumour itself any peculiarities by which its nature may be recognised ? Unfortunately, a negative answer must be given to this question, for although it may not be unfair to suspect the presence of a cancer when the tumour does not present any of the special appearances or symptoms which commonly characterise the innocent growths, it can only be a suspicion, as many innocent tumours are, often deficient in the special symptoms, which, when present, readily attest their true nature. A subcutaneous tumour, unconneeted with the integument, with an irregular bossy outline, and of a firm, fibrous feel, will, in all proba- bility, be of a simple nature, for these are not the characters of a malig- nant tumour; but another with a smooth uniform external surface may be either a simple or malignant growth. If, however, any adhesion or drawing in of the integument to the surface of the growth can he detected, or any immobility of the tumour upon the parts beneath, the suspicion of its being a cancer may be entertained (Figs. 399,400, and 401) ; for I have already alluded to the tendency which the malig- nant tumour possesses to involve the tissues in its neighbourhood, and have pronounced that this tendency does not belong to the innocent growths. I proceed further to direct attention to another symptom, which,if present, is most characteristic of cancer; and it is a secondary glandu- lar, lymphatic enlargement. If this symptom appears, the probabilities of a tumour being cancerous become very strong, as innocent and non- malignant tumours are rarely, if ever, attended with enlarged lymphatic glands. A distinct and isolated tumour, therefore, which does not possess any of the special characters of a simple growth; which is attended with some evidence of secondary affection or infiltration of the parts; and with which an enlargement of the lymphatic glands in its neighbour- hood exists, may safely be regarded as cancerous. It is, however, only in the early stages of the development of a tumour that a difficulty in diagnosis is usually felt, because, as a rule, in the long-standing and well-developed growth, the diagnosis is not difficult. The soft and so-called medullary cancer is the form which is usually met with during young life. It generally makes its appearance suddenly, and often after the receipt of some blow or injury. It grows, too, very rapidly, presenting a surface which, as a rule, is smooth and uniform, or of a semi-solid and fluctuating feel, and with large full veins wander- ing across. It is recognised by its sudden appearance, rapid growth, and uniform surface, points very different from those which simple tumours present, innocent growths being generally slow in their development, and more marked in their outline. The cases of medullary or soft cancer run their course very rapidly, and destroy life within a very short period of their development. Hard cancers are the affections of middle age and adult life. They grow more rapidly than the innocent growths, often not requiring more than a few months to establish their true nature; they seldom put on the external appearances of a simple tumour, and never exist long without assuming features which are more specially characteristic of