DISEASES OF THE JAWS. .1 5 47 When the disease, says Heath, is of less amount and the orbital ( plate not involved, this should be preserved by carrying a saw hori- : zontally ielow it; and if the palate be not involved, this may be ad- vantageously kept intact by making a similar cut immediately above I it. Sir W. Pergusson advises that the disease should be cleared out from the centre towards the circumference, so as not to remove I healthy structures unnecessarily, and this may he readily accomplished by means of the many forms of curved bone forceps with which sur- geons are now familiar, aided by the gouge. In a case of myeloid disease of the upper jaw involving the whole Practical 1 of the hard palate, I peeled off all the soft parts from the bone, be- i ginning at the alveolus, and, having removed the diseased bone, brought il them up again in position and fixed them to the mucous membrane of i the cheek where it had been separated from the bone. By this means I preserved the roof of the mouth from the first, and, what is more, i eventually obtained an excellent new palate. The practice is pro- |; bably worth attempting. Pig. 224. View of section. Periosteal sarcoma of lower jaw. E.vternal aspect of tumour. Tumours of the lower jaw grow to pathologically are very similar to those of the upper. The fibrous in one of its forms is pi’obably the most common, the periosteal tumour being more frequent than the endosteal. The latter may occupy the dental canal as illustrated by a case of Mr. Cock’s (Guy’s Hosp'. Mus., 1091“*), in which the dental nerve passed through the tumour. The periosteal growth is often an epulis, and a good ex- ample of this form is represented in Fig. 209. But a more typical example of a true periosteal sarcoma which 1 removed in 1872, from a girl set. 20, is illustrated in Fig. 224. The tumour was of three months’ growth. It returned three months after removal, and destroyed life by suffocation, having grown to the size of the patient’s head. Microscopically the tumour was a enormous dimensions. Fig. 225. and Tumours of the lower jaw. Varieties. Fibro-cehular tumour of the lower jaw. Mr. Heath’s case.