148 AFTER-TKEATMENT OP WOUNDS. In gaping wounds. In deep wounds. Non- interference. Rest. wound are only to be held closely in apposition, and must not be pressed too firmly, otherwise the bougies will set up ulceration. Super- ficial sutures may subsequently be introduced into the edges of the wound (Fig. 38). For the quill suture good fishing gut is better than silk or wire, it being strong, and unirritating. Before use it should be soaked in water to make it limp; it can be readily tied or fastened with a shot. The^ loops of the quill suture should generally be divided on the fifth or sixth day, this point depending on the amount of irritation caused by the bougie. After-treatment of woands. When the edges of an incised wound have been brought together and well adjusted by sutures, they rarely require more protection than that afforded by a piece of dry or oiled lint. Wounds of the face may be left exposed. Dr. Kronlein, of Zurich, indeed, advocates the open treat- ment of all wounds. In wounds of moderate dimensions, on the third or fourth day when union may be expected to have taken place, the dressings and sutures should be removed, and, when the repair is good, the parts may be left open. Should there be any gaping of the wound or disposition to gape, the surgeon should apply strips of plaster across its edges as he removes the sutures, thereby giving support to the parts and guarding against their reopening. When the union between the edges of the wound is poor, and the parts have to heal by granulation, water dressing should be applied. In large or deep wounds, where pads and pressure have been prima- rily applied, it is better to leave the dressings untouched for five or six days, and then only to remove them when evidence exists of the presence of some retained or irritating secretions, since it is better at times even to allow sutures to cut out their way than to disturb a wound in which quick repair is wanted and anticipated. When doubt exists as to the retention of fiuids, some of the dressings should be taken away to allow of their escape, for pent-up secretions are most injurious. Indeed, to sum up in three words the essentials in the after-treat- ment of wounds—non-interference, rest, and cleanliness—include everything, for— By non-interference is meant, after the careful adjustment of a wound, and the close observance of the points that have been already alluded to in the primary treatment of wounds, the exclusion of all such curiosity as shows itself in too frequent dressing and examina- tion, too early removal of sutures and the forgetfulness to support the edges of a wound on their withdi-awal, in the application of dressings that may irritate directly or indirectly, and last, but not least, in all roughness in dressing. By rest is meant the preservation of the injured part by means of bandages, and other surgical appliances, in the most favorable position for the natural evolution of the reparative process; and the observance of due care that no external influence is brought to bear upon the wound so as to interfere with or interrupt it.