FEMORAL HERNIA, 682 Gay’s operation. I Remarks on strictures and difficulties met with in the opera- tion. ■When an omental sac exists. When sac opened. this plan is, in a measure, dangerous, as I have seen Mr. Aston Key with the point of his knife divide all the tissues outside the sac and even the sac itself in perforating the skin-fold, and have known a less skilful surgeon open the bowel. Mr. Gay advises “ an incision rather more than an inch long to be made near the inner side of the neck of the tumour. The superficial fascia to be divided, and a director or bistouri cache introduced down to the neck of the tumour, and through the crural ring, by the least amount of force, and with the aid of a little gentle compression of the inner side of the tumour by the finger, the point of the bis- toury may be insinuated between the sac, or rather fascia propria, and the pubic margin of the ring; the edge of the knife is then to be turned towards the pubes, and by projecting the blade the seat of stricture in that direction may he effectively divided.” When a director is used or the finger, the ordinary hernia knife may be applied in the same way. Nothing can be more satisfactory than this operation when reduction is efiieoted by it, and it should always be attempted. It it fail, aud the sac has to be opened, no harm cau possibly have been caused by the proceeding, as the incision can readily be enl.arged, if necessary, the sac opened, and its neck divided. Any modification of the incision, however, may be made. The essential point is, that the incision should be of such a nature as to allow the surgeon to reach with facility the neck of the tumour. In operating, the surgeoumust also remember the fascia propria or fascia that is external and superficial to the sac, which wiU always appear as a well-defined sac on the division of the soft parts that cover it, and that may be mistaken for the true sac. On its division, a layer of fat will often be found more or less lobulated, which is the subperitoneal fat, and beneath it will be found the true peritoneal sac. In Gay’s operation, as akeady described, when the parts outside the fascia propria have been divided, and the hernia cannot be reduced, there is no objection to the surgeon dividing the neck of the sac upon a director, and when this fails, the sac must be fully opened. The flow of a stream of serum will probably attend this step, and, as previously stated, the nature of the fluid will indicate the condition of the parts within. When intestine is alone seen, the director may be carefully introduced into the neck of the sac and the constricting orifice divided, the intestine being then reduced with the gentlest pressure. When omentum covers the bowel, it should be carefully raised and unravelled, aud when an omental sac exists, it must be torn through or carefully divided and dealt with as previously explained. The neck of the sac should be divided outside the omentum. The less the parts at the neck of the sac are disturbed the better; no introduction of the finger beyond the neck of the sac being necessary, and no passing of the director or hernia knife called for beyond the neck. When the neck of the sac has been divided, and the sac has subsequently to be opened to ensure the reduction of its contents, it is seldom necessary to reintroduce the bistoury, the parts yielding enough to the finger to allow of the replacement of the hernial contents, for the less the neck of the sac is divided the better. The surgeon should always be careful that the hernia is not reduced within the crural ring, together with the sac; if so, the sac must be brought down again, opened, aud held in sitil whilst its contents