222 WOUNDS OF THE BEAIN. Hremorrliage into brain, with fracture. Cases. General summary. Escape of brain through wound. Prognosis. duration. The probable explanation of protracted somnolence and other evidences of brain disturbance is the presence of diffused extra- vasation of blood over the surface of the hemispheres.” (P. Le Gros Clark.) Again, in a general shaking of the brain, blood may be extravasated into the brain itself, and when the injury has been sufficient to produce fracture there is no limit to the amount of hajmorrhage or its seat. “ But in dealing with such cases, great caution is neces- sary in order to avoid, if possible, mixing up cases of apoplexy with those of traumatic effusions. An accident coexisting with an extravasation of blood into the cerebral substance does not necessarily imply cause and effect. The previous condition of the brain or the outpouring of blood from diseased vessels may, in fact, have been the cause of the accident.” (Hewett.) On referring to my notes I see that in a case of brain injury which lived only one hour, blood vvas found filling the ventricles. In another the venti’icles were bruised and the septum lucidum lacerated. In other cases blood was poured out into the thalamus opticus or into the corpus striatum. In all these the brain had been severely shakeu, the haemorrhage being doubtless the result of the shake and the cause of death, while the fracture of the skull was merely a complication. It has been already shown that concussion of the brain too often implies contusion or laceration of its structure, with extravasation of blood, and, in the same way compression indicates as serious if not more severe injury. Concussion does not by itself produce definite sym- ptoms, and when paralysis, vertigo, sickness, or other such phenomena, arise, the inference is that there is some structural damage to the brain. Compression implies a more severe degree of the same sort of injury with effusion of blood or depression of bone. Compression of the brain, when not excessive, is seldom the direct cause of death. It proves fatal in the majority of cases by being the starting-point of an intracranial inflammation; since it has been proved that blood can be absorbed or encysted, and depressed bone may be gradually raised by the brain itself, or, the brain may accommodate itself to the pressure. Compression of the brain, as a result of traumatic encephalitis, will receive attention in a subsequent page. Wounds of the Brain. In some injuries to the skull the brain may be wounded or lacerated, and brain-matter may even escape from the wound directly after the accident. Such accidents are always of a very grave nature, and, as a rule, fatal. Wounds of the anterior and upper portions of the hemispheres are the least dangerous; wounds of the posterior hemisphere or base of the brain the most so. Recovery may .at times follow even after very severe injuries when no secondary inflammation takes place; but the prognosis must always be un- favorable. When brain-matter is pressed out of the skull in cases of fractured base, a grave injury is always inflicted, for the crushing force must have been severe to have given rise to such a complication. Some remarkable