256 SPINA BIFIDA. months. Another is as suddenly affected with spinal affection, as in- dicated hy local pain in the back, inability to stand, &c. &c., without any local evidence of organic disease. A third suddenly finds herself unable to flex or extend a limb, and the slightest force excites severe muscular spasm and pain. A fourth is attacked, without a cause, with some muscular spasm, possibly involving a finger or fingers—a spasm that resists all attempts at extension. A fifth suddenly loses sensation or the power of motion in some part of a limb, quite irre- spective of nerve supply. In these cases, again, however severe the pain may be during the day, it is rarely felt at night. Such patients, as a rule, sleep well and quietly. During sleep, also, it often happens that joints which are immovable by day are found to be more flexed or extended. Patients with supposed diseased spine are fonnd on their Value of sides coiled up in a natural attitude. As an aid to diagnosis, the value Anaesthetics, of some anaesthetic cannot be too highly praised, as with a patient under its influence, rigid parts rapidly yield, rigidity of muscle return- ing only with consciousness, and those parts supposed to be paralysed often move, suspected joint disease disappearing by a close examination where previously doubt existed. Hysterical disease is more commonly met with in female than in male subjects, in single than in married, in those whose nervous systems have been unstrung from some mental or physical trial, or where the emotional centres are inadequately balanced by the higher controlling ganglia. It is characterised by tbe suddenness of its attack and the severity of all its subjective symptoms, neither the clinical history of the case nor the objective symptoms present being consis- tent with those usually met with in organic disease; the exaggeration of certain symptoms and the absence of others, coupled with the anomalies of its nature, mark the hysterical affection over the organic, and are sufficient to excite a doubt as to the true nature of the affection. For valuable information on this subject, the reader may be referred to the lectures of Brodie, Skey, and Paget, RusseU Reynolds’ Essay on hysteria, and Anstie’s lectures in ‘ Lancet.’ CHAPTER yil. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE, &c. Spina bifida. Description A spina bifida is essentially a hernia of the membranes of the cord ^ through an opening in the spine, due to a congenital deficiency, from arrest of development, in some portion of the bones forming the spinal column. It is analogous to the meningoceles of the cranium which have been already described. It always contains subarachnoid fluid, and often the spinal cord itself, or, large nerve trunks. Mr. Hewett believes, that when the fluid has collected in the subarachnoid space, or between the cord and the membranes, the cord is pressed; and that when fluid alone is present, the collection is situated in the cavity of the arachnoid. Mr. Hutchinson has recorded (‘Path. Trans.,’ vol. viii) a case in which the serous sac in the cauda equina had a direct tubular communication with the cerebral ventricles; and in the specimen figured on (Fig. 76), taken from a dissection kindly made for me by Dr. Pye