156 BtlllNS FROM LIGHTNING. Skin grafting. When amputation necessary. Constitu- tional treatment of bui'ns, &c Effects of lightniiig. kept from the side j and where the groin and parts around are in- volved, the thigh must be kept extended. In addition to these means, we possess M. Reverdin’s method of skin grafting; a practice consisting of the transplantation of small portions of true skin—these centres of cutification not only rapidly growing in healthy granulations, but having the power of imparting to the margins of the granulating tissue a skin-forming power which is as remarkable as it is beautiful to witness. By these means large granulating surfaces may not only be rapidly healed, but healed without such a sm’face of cicatricial tissue as neces- sarily exists after ordinary burns or scalds, and, therefore, without that tendency to subsequent contraction that appertains to cicatrices. This treatment has introduced us to a new field of surgery, which promises to make a large class of cases that were previously an oppro- brium to our art as remediable as many minor affections. It will receive due attention in a later page. When a hand or finger, foot or toe, is charred, amputation must be performed; and where the soft parts are so injured as to slough, the same practice may be called for. The time and also the necessity for operation in any patient’s case must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. The constitutional treatment of burns in the first stage is to 'pre- vent collapse by the judicious use of stimulants and external warmth; allay pain by local treatment and soothing drugs, such as chloral or morphia; maintain the powers of the patient by simple nutritious food, such as milk, beef tea, eggs, &c.; and after the stage of reaction, when that of suppuration has set in, to prescribe good food of all kinds and tonic medicine. Complications are to be treated on ordinary principles, always re- membering that the injm’y is depressing, and requires no additional depressing influence in the way of treatment. Thoracic complications may be dealt with by moderate doses of tartar emetic and salines, as well as nutritious and possibly stimulating diet. Abdominal complications, with opium, alkaline remedies, such as lime water in bark, and simple diet. For children an opiate is best given in the form of the opium oint- ment ; while for adults, where the drug upsets digestion, the same plan is a equally effective. Scalds of the glottis will be considered in Chapter XVIII. Burns and accidents from lightning rarely occur in this country, and average about twelve a year. In 1861 there were twenty-six, in 1862 twelve, in 1863 three, and in 1864 six. Holmes, who has written a careful compilation on the subject, tells us that a person struck by lightning is usually more or less completely deprived of consciousness at the time. This is sometimes a consequence of the shock given to the brain, and is accompanied by more or less paralysis of motion and of common or special sensation. Occasionally, and perhaps more usually, it is merely the effect of fright, and is then only transient. This insensibility sometimes lasts for a considerable time. The para- lysis by which it is usually accompanied may last for an indefinite period; in one case it lasted four months, in another three.^ It is more common in the lower than in the upper limbs. Other affections caused by lightning are burns, eruptions of erythema or urticaiia, loss