325 RESULTS OF IRITIS. fiued. There may be, besides, certain peculiar nodular excrescences, of a dirty yellow colour (known as lymph-nodules), situated on the surface of the iris or at its pupillary margin, and at times extending into the pupil, which may be completely blocked by them. These excrescences are syphilitic gummata,*and their existence renders the diagnosis of syphilitic iritis certain; they are, however, only occasionally present, and in the greater number of cases met with the surgeon will have to take into consideration the patient’s previous history, ascertain the existence of other signs of syphilis, and make his diagnosis ac- cordingly. Syphilitic iritis occurs most frequently between the ages of fifteen and forty, but is occasionally met with as a manifestation of congenital syphilis in infants. Results of iritis.—In many cases, especially if early and properly treated, perfect recovery takes place; in others permanent signs of inflammation are left. The morbid changes more commonly met with are— (1) The iris itself may be found atrophied, rigid, or rotten, and very prone to Ideed freely on the slightest wound. These conditions become most apparent when operating upon its structure. On attempting to perform iridectomy considerable difficulty will be expe- rienced in removing a portion of the iris, which may be so tough that none of it can be torn away, or so rotten that only the portion included between the branches of the forceps is removed, or hinmorrhage may take place to such an extent as to prevent the completion of the operation. (2) Adhesions to neighbouring parts synechice”) may have formed, those most commonly met with being between the iris and lens-capsule (“ posterior synechim”). Posterior synechim are generally situated at the pupillary margin, and vary in extent from a few adherent tags, of this part only, to complete adhesion of the whole posterior surface of the iris to the lens-capsule, this latter condition being known as “ total posterior synechia.” Adhesion of the iris to the cornea, “ anterior synechia” (should this occur at all as the result of iritis) will be found about its greater circumference. (3) Closure of the pupil by inflammatory material, opacities upon the lens-capsule caused by adhesion of the “ uvea ” detached from the posterior surface of the iris. (4) Dense inflammatory deposits in or beneath the capsule, or in- volving the superficial fibres of the lens itself (capsular cataract), may also be met with. Lympli- uodules. Results of iritis. Atrophy of iris, &c. Posterior synechia. Total posterior synechia. Anterior synechia. Closed pupil. Capsular cataract. Treatment.—In treating iritis we must take care, first, to remove Treatment, any local cause, such as a foreign body, opaque swollen lens, &c., and to cure granular lids, or remove inverted lashes. Secondly, we must endeavour to dilate the pupil. Thirdly, to relieve pain. Fourthly, any constitutional treatment that may appear called for should be em- ployed. (The means of carrying out the first indication are detailed elsewhere.) In order to dilate the pupil a few drops of a strong solution (gr. iv Local, to 5j) of sulphate of atropine should be placed between the eyelids by the surgeon himself at each visit, and a weaker solution (gr. l to gr. 1