ANEURISM. 438 Fig. 129. Spontaneous cure. Laminated coagulum removed from axillary aneurism twelve years after Mr. Key had liga- tured the subclavian arterv. Prep. Guy’s Hosp. Mus., 1499®*. Appearances of a cured Consolidation due to coagulation of blood in sac. Colies’ views. difPused over an expanded artery. Hence sacculated aneurisms attain a much larger size than the fusiform, and are much more liable to rupture. On the other hand, the sacculated aneurism is more capable of a natural cure than the fusiform—the cavity of the former probably undergoing a partial and possibly a complete closure by the coagu- lation of the blood; whilst it is rare indeed for a fusiform aneurism to undergo any such natural recovery. When the coats are diseased, the fusiform is as likely to increase as the sacculated, and as capable of a spontaneous cure. In any case, therefore, of sacculated aneurism, as well as in some of fusiform, a spontaneous cure may take place by the coagulation of the blood in the sac and the subsequent con- solidation of the clot. When this pro- cess is slow, the fibrin of the blood is deposited in layers or laminse (Fig. 129) ; the external layer in contact with the walls of the sac becoming united with them and so strengthening them as to prevent their dilatation; the clot also becomes dense by contraction and deco- lorised. Subsequent layers form in the same manner as the process of recovery proceed, until the whole sac is filled and finally obliterated. A section of an aneurismal sac thus cured much resembles that of an onion, the outer laminse of fibrin being thin, fibrous, firm, and bloodless, each successive layer towards the centre approaching more to the colour and consistency of newly coagulated blood. The lami- nated coagulum lining the sac is frequently called after Broca “ active clot,” and the soft coagulum in the centre “ passive clot,” from the idea that this latter is a mere post-mortem and not a vital deposit. This view, however, can scarcely be correct, as there can be little doubt that in all cases of aneurism that are rapidly cured by pi-essure, digital or otherwise, the consolidation of the aneurism must be due to the simple coagulation of the blood in the sac, and its subsequent induration and contraction, inasmuch as a few hours are evidently too short a period for the coagulum to form in any other way. In the following beautiful drawing (Fig. 130) by Dr. Moxon, taken from a specimen of popliteal aneurism which was cured in a man under my care two years before death by digital compression applied for four and a half hours {vide ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1869), the whole pathology of aneurism is shown. Colles, of Dublin, and some older pathologists, believed that the fibrin which lines the sac was the product of an exudation from the lining membrane of the same, and that successive exudation of this material formed the lamiiim. This view, however, is now almost exploded. Le Fort also accounts for the cure of the fusiform aneurism by inflammation of the inner lining of the sac, and he regards the fusiform as a simple dilatation, which it is not in all cases. Most patho- logists, however, now admit, that where the inner tunic of an artery exists in a healthy state in an aneurism, the coagulation of the blood within the sac does not take place, and consequently that a spontaneous