CONTUSIONS. 599 I 1869), “ with any diagnostic sign by which we may predicate whether i shock following an abdominal injury exists primarily, apart from, or I as expressive of actual breach of texture. Time alone can develop the Ooly true nature of the case, either br renewal of vigour or by the developed in ) development of fresh symptoms.” A severe internal injury may like- of the case^* ) wise exist without shock. An injury to the abdomen from a blow, fall, or the passage of a || wheel over the part may cause either a contusion of the abdominal k wall more or less severe, with no visceral complication whatsoever ; or , a laceration or rupture of a viscus or vessel which will end in death Symptoms as I without any (or very slight) external sign of mischief. a guide. Pain as ui immediate effect of injury is no indication of internal fain. |i mischief, fir in simple abdominal contusions it is at times very ! severe. Wien, however, it lasts or becomes fixed, it is a symptom of importame; and, when it radiates from a point, it is most charac- I teristic. Persistent mmiting is always a suspicious symptom of visceral injury. Persistent Collapse, ai a direct consequence of a blow, is of small value as a vomiting, diagnostic sigi, when of a passing nature j although when persistent or • relapsing it iidicates great mischief; as more or less complete col- Relapsing (lapse is a comaon effect of all abdominal injuries. A collapse, however, collapse. coming on at adistinct Interval of time after an injury, as a rule means ) internal hajmorhage. How far su den death is attributable to a shock or collapse from a Sndden deatli blow on the ep^astrium or stomach without organic lesion is an open from shock, question, soundjvidence being wanting to prove the fact. Dr. A. Taylor, in his ‘ Medica Jurisprudence,’ adduces a case, that of Mr. Wood, in which a man, \heu fighting and intoxicated, suddenly died after the I receipt of a let-handed blow on the pit of the stomach; but the evidence in the ase as well as the facts revealed at the post-mortem were by no meas conclusive as to the cause of death. The opinion has probably been acepted on the authority of Sir A. Cooper, who was in Sir A. the habit of relting that as two men were working, one of whom Cooper’s case, was wheeling alng a heavy load, his comrade thus addressed him : I “ That is too mch for you; stand aside, and let me, a better man, i take it.” He acompanied these remarks with a slight blow on the scrobiculus cordi: and the man immediately let the barrow fall and died on the spot. After death no lesion was discovered. The case, however, had onl been related to Sir A. Cooper, nor can a better be brought forward V support the theory. Under these circumstances, I concur with Pollock when he asserts, that he is somewhat Pollock’s sceptical on the pmt that death can occur without any organic mis- remarks, chief resulting frn the blow at the time; that “sudden death at- tributable to a biw on the stomach or epigastrium must be a rare occurrence ; and tit medical men should be extremely guarded in ever offering an opinioias to the cause of death in such supposed injuries, without satisfyinghemselves, by most careful and minute post-mortem investigation, tha no violence has been done to the viscera, either abdominal or thoriic.” (‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ vol. ii.) This question may, therefore, be ummarily dismissed. What then, it my be asked, are the usual consequences of an abdo- minal injury or comsion ? and what are its risks and complications ? The following factsvill answer these queries.