SYPHILIS. 87 The mucous tubercles of the genitals and other parts are most success- fully treated by the local application of calomel, which should he dusted over the diseased surfaces through a muslin bag. A good rub with nitrate of silver at times expedites the cure. The parts should be kept well dry. Condylomata are not so amenable to the calomel treatment as the moist tubercles; they may, however, he successfully treated by the local application of nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, by a lotion of bichloride of mercury gr. ij to the ounce of water, or of black wash. When the growths are very fleshy, excision is the best practice. In ulceration of the throat iodide of potassium, in doses varying from six to fifteen grains three times a day, is of great value, with the local application of the nitrate of silver in stick or strong solution; a gargle of alum, chlorate of potash, or borax, a drachm to a pint of water, is also good. In laryngeal disease the iodide must also be given quite as freely ; and when ulceration has commenced, and seems to be unaffected by general treatment, tracheotomy claims serious consideration, because un- less the larynx can be kept quiet, repair will not go on, and, so long as ulcerative disease is present, a sudden spasm of the glottis may occur and render imminent the death of the patient. The operation should, however, only be undertaken when the disease is steadily progressing in spite of treatment, and it is clear that the larynx will be de- stroyed as a vocal as well as a respiratory organ unless some steps be taken to stop its progress. Of these steps there are none equal to tracheotomy, for all surgeons are familiar with the fact that even under the most extreme conditions of disease repair goes on in the larynx directly the tracheal tube has been introduced, aud physiological rest is given to the organ {vide paper by author, ‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’1868). In the gummy tumours of the tongue, muscles, and cellular tissue, large doses of the iodide with tonics are as beneficial as they are in the periosteal affections of syphilis. There is reason, however, to believe that in the visceral ns w’ell as in other diseases which may be looked upon as the sequelm of syphilis, or as the result of the cachexia caused by the disease and the remedies employed for its removal, iodide of potassium alone has little influ- ence. Dr. Wilks has shown how the lardaceous and waxy diseases of organs are found after syphilis, and every one know's how little amenable to treatment these affections are; Dr. Dickinson has, however, done something to prove that they are due to a want of alkalinity in the blood, and are to be pi’evented and, in a manner, cured by the medical use of alkalies. With the same view a non-uitrogenous diet should be allowed. ^ During the later period of the disease, when the gummous deposi- tions take place, whether it be visceral, osseous, glandular, or otherwise, iodide of potassium in full doses is of great value. In the sequelae, iu waxy or lardaceous disease, it is of little use, alkalies with tonics being then apparently the best. Upon this knowledge it is probable that the late Mr. Aston Key based his advocacy of lime water and the infusion of sarsaparilla in the syphilitic cachexia. Treatment of mucous tubercles. Treatment of condylomata. Treatment in laryngeal disease. When tracheotomy advisable. Treatment of gummy tumours. Treatment of internal syphilis. When iodide of potassium of value. II Hereditary Syphilis. That syphilis is capable of being propagated by hereditary trans- Onhereditary mission is a clinical fact generally recognised, constituting the main ®yP''ih8-