SPRAIN OF THE BACK. 275 is not advisable. The onus of proving that an operation is likely to be of use, always devolves upon the surgeon who performs it. There is, however, reason to believe, that a cord may at times be only squeezed or pressed upon by effused blood, and, under such circum- stances, relief might be afforded by removing enough bone to take away the pressure, and thus give the cord a chance of recovering itself. In the case of the young man referred to at p. 273, such a pro- Removal of bability seemed reasonable, and, three months after the accident I cut portions of down upon the injured vertebra, and removed the spinous process and lamina of the fourth cervical, thereby exposing the cord. No harm fol- lowed the operation, although no immediate good was produced. The wound healed rapidly, and, in the course of a few weeks, some slight power returned in the muscles of the shoulders, the patient being able to raise the arms from the bed. He, however, made no further progress; and yet I look upon the case as an encouraging one. “ The end proposed in an operation of this kind,” says Le Gros Le Gros Clark, “ is to remove displaced bone which is supposed to press upon Clark’s or irritate the cord; but it is most likely to prove abortive, from the inaccessibility of the displaced bone. If the cord have been crushed, and the operation have been consequently useless, probably life may thereby be only curtailed, but if the cord be not crushed, it appears to me that the best chance of the patient’s recovery is thereby extin- guished. Indeed, my conviction is that the operation has been advo- cated on the erroneous hypothesis that the spinal cord can be com- pressed without serious disintegration of its texture.” Wounds of the spinal cord. Wounds. These are very rare in civil life. They may take place, however, as the result of a stab or gunshot wound. If the cord is injured, some symptoms of paralysis will appear, corresponding with the part that is involved; the extent of the paralysis and its seat fixing the position of the wound. Sprain of the back. The word “ sprain ” is very broad, and, when applied to the back is Sprains and indeed vague. It may mean simply a stretching of the muscles or varied ligaments of the back, or a more complete laceration of the latter, and separation of the spinous processes of the vertebrae with exposure or of cord. The number of articulations in the spine, numbering nearly eighty, renders such an accident as a sprain a common occurrence; any twist of the spine, or forcible flexion, may consequently injure some of these joints. ^ Sprains may, moreover, be followed by acute or chronic The source joint disease of a serious and insidious nature. When the head is of orgauic bent violently forward, the muscles and ligaments may be so torn as to give rise to effusion of blood, swelling, and severe local pain. When the body is flexed with violence not sufiicient to give rise to frac- ture, there may be the same results and so also, when a man falls upon his buttocks. In each case there may be external evidence alone of injury, or, there may he evidence of some affection of the cord, such as is afforded by the presence of paralysis, proving that the cord has been stretched, if not permanently injured. If the symptoms rapidly or even gradually subside, no grave misebief probably may have taken place. When these are persistent or obstinate, a less