659 TREATMENT OF ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Museum show such extravasation of blood into the strangulated bowel of a femoral hernia as to cause its complete death, this being clearly due to forcible taxis. Where evidence exists that gangrene of the contents of the sac has Taxis taken place, or where, indeed, there is a suspicion of such a result, the Xei^bowef taxis must not be used. In recent or old femoral hernia, where faecal gangrenous, vomiting has existed for some hours, the taxis is a dangerous practice, and in all old cases it is so unsuccessful that reduction by herniotomy is a more certain and safe method. If there be hiccough, the ta.xis is inadmissible. The taxis may succeed without chloroform, but, as a rule, with the patient under chloroform, a hernia that is capable of being reduced by the taxis returns on the gentlest manipulation, and when such a result does not follow force will not only be unsuccessful, but also prove injurious. When the taxis succeeds, vomiting usually disappears, although it may be kept up to a slight extent as an effect of the ansesthetic. The abdominal dragging pain will, however, be at once relieved. After the Treatment reduction of the hernia, a pad should be carefully adjusted over the aft®r I neck of the sac to guard against its re-descent, and, when the patient I has a cough, the necessity of doing so is increased, as I have known I the hernia descend and a renewal of all the symptoms take place ’ from a want of attention to this point; indeed it is wise to adapt a pad till a truss has been obtained. The patient under all circum- stances should be kept at rest for a few days after the reduction of a strangulated hernia. The diet, too, should be nutritious but not solid, till the bowels have acted spontaneously, and no aperient under any Avoid hut exceptional circumstances should be administered, for the bowels “perients. will to a certainty act as soon ns the effects of their strangulation have passed away, and they have recovered their natural tone. If, ( however, abdominal symptoms appear which can be attributed to a ll i want of the natural action of the bowel an enema may he given, and 'j ' repeated with advantage when required. Stimulants should he used I i with caution. When the bowels have acted naturally the patient may ! be pronounced convalescent, and the ordinary diet, &c., allowed. Where chloroform is not at hand, or cannot readily be obtained, a Opium. I good dose of opium, such as a grain and a half of the solid or thirty t drops of the tincture may be given and repeated to an adult, for when ^ a patient with an old hernia is brought fully under the influence of I this drug, reduction may often be obtained by manipulation. In the ; I very earliest hours of strangulation, before vomiting has become severe or passed beyond stomach vomiting, this practice is also at times suc- B cessful. It may be tried moreover when the surgeon cannot obtain the 11 1 patient’s consent to perform herniotomy, and reduction has not been 11 »' effected by the taxis under chloroform, or when time has necessarily i fi to be lost in making arrangements for operative relief. Under the !;i| I) same circumstances, a hot hath (99° F.) may be used. The local appli- Hot bntti. 'Hj i cation of ice shonld he employed in old cases of hernia where the Ice. lijl B symptoms are chronic, and delay is a necessity or expedient. In omental :'|i J hernia also it is particularly valuable, and should be applied over the ! k whole tumour in a loose bag, A purgative is never admissible with a j'!| B strangulated hernia. ; E The taxis with inversion of the body, the legs flexed, pelvis raised. Taxis with ij b and shoulders depressed, has been successful in causing the reduction [”,e*body ! • le 0 y. II