81 SYPHILIS. Byuiptonis of syphilis now claim attention; and the variety of forms they assume is very striking. They usually show themselves Constitu- primarily ^upon the skin in the form of an eruption, or upon the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, as indicated by sore tongue and throat, while some amount of fever and constitutional disturb- ance usually precedes their appearance, this “ syphilitic fever ” varying according to the nervous susceptibilities of the patient. The skin eruption may be only a rose rash, roseola, giving rise to a Eruption, mottling of the skin, or to a more lasting staining. It may assume the papular form, lichen; the pustular, ecthyma; the vesicular, rupia ; the tubercular, ulcerating or non-ulcerating, or the scaly, lepra, or psoriasis. Bull® are rare, except in hereditary disease; when present they indicate a cachectic condition. The mildest form of roseola may last hut a few days and disappear. Roseola, or leave a dusky coppery stain behind of some durability. The lichen will soon show the copper tint,”and, as it flattens, lichen, may become a tubercle, and this a scale, the skin after the desquama- tion of the scale showing much the same as the macula of the rose eruption. When the eruption is tubercular at the first, the same series of changes Tubercle, will he seen; the raised, indurated or spongy tubercle, as it withers, usually showing a scale upon its surface, and then flattening down to a macula. The lepra and psoriasis appear as inflamed patches more or less hepra. extensive, as in the non-specific forms, the epithelial scales varying in thickness and the fissures in depth. The psoriasis commonly appears on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. All these eruptions have a copper-coloured tint, more particularly after Copper- their first appearances have faded. But what is still more characteristic is ji))” the fact that upon the same subject several forms of eruption are often found together—the macula, papule, pustule, tubercle and scale, pass- ing one into another. What determines the form of the eruption at its first appear- ance is not known. Why syphilis in one man should manifest its presence by an eruption of mere maculae, in another by a papular or scaly eruption, and in a third by a pustular, tubercular, or ulcerative form is not known. The theory propounded by Carmichael, that each Caimidmel’s sort of eruption has its own form of local sore or inoculation, was in- genious, but not supported by facts, and the generally received opinion ‘ is that the .peculiarity or power of the infected patient has more to do with these phenomena than the nature of the poison itself. The pustular and vesicular eruptions are more prone to appear in cachectic subjects than in the robust, and an ulcerative action to accompany, or rather to follow their appearance; the base of the pustule or of the vesicle, and at times the substance of the tubercle, breaking down, and giving rise to a troublesome and spreading ulcer. _ As the outside skin in sj'philitic subjects is attacked by eruptions. Affections of simple and ulcerative, so the inside skin or mucous membranes are mucous equally involved. “ Every form of syphilitic affection of the skin,” writes Lee, “ has its counterpart in the mucous membrane; but the appearances will he modified by the comparative thinness of the struc- ture, by the absence of cuticle, and by the little disposition these parts have to take on the adhesive inflammation.” The mucous tubercle is VOL. I. 0