INFLAMMATION OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. 189 The local application of iodine under these circumstances, although a common remedy, does not appear to he of much value. Chronic glandular enlargement is a very common affection. When Clironic found in the so-called strumous subject the disease is regarded as a slandul^ strumous one of the glands, yet it is very difiBcult to lay down any “ ^rgemeu . definite cause for its appearance. It is found in the strumous and feeble child, it is true, as a chronic and slightly painful enlargement of a gland or glands, more particularly those beneath the jaw and about the neck, and comes on sometimes after exposure to cold, some slight illness, local irritation, or without any definite cause, often subsiding spontaneously on the removal of the cause or on the improve- ment of the general health. There always exists, probably, some local cause of irritation. At times these glands suppurate and leave ugly sores, the cellular tissue around the gland becoming destroyed and the skin consequently undermined. The pus from these glandular enlarge- ments is sometimes ill formed and curdy; and when it attends the breaking down of some old disease it may contain chalky deposit, this being some degenerated or dried-up tuberculous or other matter. Hodgkin’s disease of the glands. Ilodekin’s There is, however, another chronic enlargement of the glands that disease of iho appears to differ in all ways from the local enlargements to which B*>mds. attention has just been drawn. It was first described by Dr. Hodgkin in the ‘Med.-Chir, Trans.,’ vol. xvii, and may be called Hodgkin’s disease of the glands, or, for the sake of distinction, glandular tumours. He observed it first in the mesenteric glands, though any or all may be affected. In it the glands become very much enlarged, even to the size of an egg, and apparently more numerous; they present a smooth external appearance, and have a soft semi-fluctuating elastic feel. On section, the surface of the gland presents a smooth, bloodless, semi- transparent, loose, succulent structure; microscopically it is made up of glandular tissue and abundance of fibro-nucleated tissue; it is of a tough leathery consistence, and exudes a clear serous fluid. The tumours are always free, each being separable from the others. To the surgeon, the disease, at times, appears as a local movable Cliaracters. glandular tumour of a slow painless growth, which medicine has no power of influencing; it has the local clinical appearance of a benign fibro-cellular tumour, and has often been excised as such. In other instances the tumours are multiple, three, four, or more existing in one locality, chiefly in the neck. In exceptional instances the tumours are more numerous. I have seen a case in which, on one side of the neck, the subcutaneous tissue seemed filled with loose glan- dular tumours, readily movable one upon the other, as if simply con- fined by skin, in the same way as the adenoid tumours of the breast are occasionally met with. In still rarer examples the whole glandular system seems to be aflected, every group of glands not only being apparently enlarged in size, but also increased in number. This disease is often associated with an enlarged spleen, and appears pathologically to be allied to that blood disease now known as leuco- cythaemia, notwithstanding that in many instances the white corpuscles are not in excess. On one occasion I had an opportunity of watching the gradual deve- lopment of this affection. It began in the cervical glands, and gradually involved the whole gland^ular system, the boy, at the age