67 POISONED WOUNDS. CHAPTER II. ON ANIMAL POISONS. POISONED WOUNDS. Under this heading. Dissection wounds, wounds from the sting or On poisoned hite of healthy insects and animals, and wounds from the bite of dis- eased animals, or inoculation from their blood, will be considered. Dissection Wounds.—These are of frequent occurrence, although it is exceptional to find them followed by any seriously ill eflects. In common with all wounds, they may he attended with absorbent inflammation, inflammation of the cellular tissue, suppuration, septicrouiia, or pymmia; and feeble or cachectic subjects are more liable to any one of these consequences than the strong and steady. In exceptional instances, however, different results follow, and two forms of the affection may be recognised—the mild and the acute. “The symptoms in the mild form partake,” says Poland, “more or Symptoms of less of the ordinary chai’acter of non-specific inflammation, and scarcely lorm. present any noticeable characteristic signs; thus, the local appearances consist in the puncture assuming a defined red aspect, which soou becomes pustular; this bvirsts, and ends in an unhealthy suppuration; there is surrounding erythema of an erratic form, and inflammation and pain extending along the forearm and arm to the axilla, ending in the enlargement and suppuration of the glands. The constitutional effects consist in febrile disturbance, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, fetid eructations, &c. The prognosis and termination are favorable; and the treatment required is to be based upon general principles. The Symptoms of symptoms of the acute or severe forms are those of a truly specific ag'ute^forui disease; the local signs commence by the appearance of a small circular or oval vesicle over the seat of puncture, which soon becomes turbid, milky, and pustular, and not unfrequently has a defined margin, resembling somewhat that of smallpox. This is generally unattended with pain; hut the patient often complains of intense pain in the shoulder and about the axilla, which shoots down the chest. The glands in the axilla are early affected, and seem to act as barriers to the further progress of the poison; they become enlarged, and the surrounding cellular tissue is implicated, with serous effusion; there is erythema and puffy swelling; these extend to the subscapular and pectoral regions, spreading down the side of the chest, yielding to pressure, and imparting a peculiar spongy feel. There is, besides, an cedematous and doughy condition of the arm and forearm, owing to serous exudation into the cellular tissue, wliich seldom, if ever, passes into suppuration.” “ The constitutional symptoms are at first those of strong excite- Constitu- ment; hut these are soon followed by those of extreme depression of spirits and much suffering. Rigors, headache, prostration of strength, vomiting, &c., supervene; and, lastly, all the symptoms of low typhoid fever rapidly set in.” In some cases the absorbent glands are not involved, and death may occur from prostration in the early stage of the disease; in others, suppuration and pyaemia may appear, while in a third extensive