ABNORMAL ANUS—FiECAL FISTULA. 613 orifice; the serous surface of the intestine becoming firmly fixed to that of the opening in the abdominal parietes. Bej'ond these adhe- sions it is rare to find other coils of intestine adherent about the part; on the contrary, the parts are otherwise usually so free that coils of bowel will be found separating the two portions of intes- tine that are adherent at the wound, and may so dip down between them as to push forward a serous sac into the artificial opening, and even to form a hernia. The nature of the discharging fiuid will Discharge fairlv indicate the portion of the bowel involved: when well-formed howel fa3ces pass, the large or lower part of the small intestine is probably the diai/nosis. seat; when the fluid is thin and inoffensive, the jejunum? is indicated. The yellow semi-faeculent contents of the ileum can generally be recognised. The nearer the opening is to the stomach the worse is Prognosis, the prognosis, as nutrition under such circumstances must be seriously interfered with. The nearer it is to the lower end of the canal, the better are the prospects of life. Treatment.—Wien the orifice is fistulous and the canal below the Treatment, fistula is fairly open for the passage of fseces, a cure may with some certainty be looked for by natural processes, and such a result is by no means unusual in the artificial anus, which is met with, after the return of a small hernia into the abdomen, and particularly of a femoral. In pjjiiativc i these cases the surgeon has little more to do than to keep up the I strength—giving simple nutritious diet, maintaining perfect cleanli- ness of the wound, and applying gentle pressure to the part. When the fistulous communication is larger, the same treatment must be em- ployed, though with less hope of success. Lawrence recommended the constant use of a truss in these cases to prevent prolapsus, and Pollock strongly advocates the importance of the recommendation. Use of truss, adding, that “ a compress of linen placed on the opening, with a larger pad over it, and a truss applied over the whole, will, in a great measure, restrain the contents as well as prevent the protrusion of the bowel.” To assist the contraetion of small fistulm, the edges may be cauterized or even pared, a plastic operation being justifiable under certain cir- cumstances. With respect to surgical interference in these cases, the recommen- Surgical dations I have to clffer are not very satisfactory. Dupuytren suggested erence. an operation to get rid of the projecting fold or septum that has been Dupuytren’s described. He did this by an instrument called an enterotome, a pair of foreeps with one blade grooved, into which the other closed, the pAead! de approximation of the blades being regulated by a screw. The septum M6d.,’ 1828. w-as crushed between the blades and so held till its destruction was effected. The instrument, as a rule, came away about the seventh day, and, Dupuytren says, “ by the division and loss of substance, the ridge and the double septum which separate the two ends of the bowel are destroyed so as to re-establish the interrupted communication between !them, and restore the natural course of the aliment and faeces.” Jobert advises the pressure of the instrument to be gradual, fatal cases having occurred when Dupuytren’s rapid process has been 5 employed. The theory of this operation is good; and is based on nature’s own processes; for I have seen the septum of an artificial I anus ulcerated through, by natural processes, leaving an opening % through which faeces passed from the upper to the lower bowel, a I narrow band above, alone existing to prevent a freer faeculent flow.