596 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Trcatnieut. If soft or (li|;estible may be jiuslied down Horseliair probaug. Forceps. iOmetics. (Esopbiigo- tomy for removal of foreign bodies. to escape detection in the passage of an instrument. The best bougie for diagnostic purposes is one made of whalebone, with a smooth polished iron knob at its end, the one with a sponge at the end being useless. Treatment.—When a foreign body is detected, the sooner it can be taken away the better. If the material be soft and digestible, it may be pushed downwards by means of an ordinary sponge or ivory pro- bang or the tube of a stomach pump, care being taken not to use force, for such material will soften by the natural secretion of the part after the lapse of a few hours, and thus will be more readily pressed on. Should, howevei-, the offending body be pointed, hard, or large, all idea of push- Fig. 261. probang expanded and vinexpauded. ing it on must be dismissed, such a practice being most dangerous, although it has been done with impunity; a jagged plate with teeth having been pushed into the stomach and passed per anum. Smallpointed bodies may be caught by the “ horsehair” probang (Fig. 251), passed carefully beyond the position in which the foreign body is supposed to be placed, and then gently expanded, rotated, and withdrawn, the compression and rotation of the instrument causing the hair to spread out and to expand the oesophagus. Sharp-pointed bodies or impacted hard irregular bodies should, when possible, be removed by forceps. Those figured in No. 249 are the best, as they can be made to open when in the pharynx in all directions. Vomiting will often cause the dislodgment of a foreign body, though at times it may render it more fixed. When vomiting cannot be produced by the administration of medicine, a solution of tartarized antimony, or of apomorphia gr. injected be- neath the skin is said to act as weU. Coins and other fiat but not pointed bodies can often be removed by means of the money probang (Fig. 252), the circular hook catching the coin and drawing it upwards. Swallowing a large bolus of bread may carry downwards any fine bone or bristle, a draught of any liquid assisting the process. (Esophagotomy has an established position in practical surgery, and the principles laid down many years ago by Ai'iiott, are now generally accepted, viz. “ where a solid sub- stance, though only of moderate size fixed at the commencement of the and irregular shape, has become