53 SEPTICAEMIA. treatment little else than a well-selected diet and attention to the bowels. Erythema occurs at times during the secondary stage of cholera. The erythema that precedes or accompanies an attack of elephan- tiasis is worthy of notice. Erythema nodosum, however, is a more definite affection; it is found Krythema in both sexes, but more commonly in the female j it is also usually o»un'- seen upon the legs, hut not rarely upon the arms as well as other parts of the body. It shows itself in raised and tender oval patches of Characters, very variable size, and of a red colour j some being the size of a six- pence, others that of an orange, and these patches at times join. At first they are of a bright red colour, but as they die away they become of a livid hue, appear very like bruises, and lastly are of a yellow tint. The cuticle always desquamates. When the disease is limited there may be no constitutional disturbance, although occa- sionally some febrile symptoms appear, and there is usually some evidence of derangement of the digestive organs with a foul tongue. As often as not, however, the local disease is the first symptom that attracts attention. The eruption is often symmetrical. When it appears over the tibia and the skin is very red and painful, it is often mistaken for some more serious affection, such as periostitis; but the absence of the severe constitutional disturbance which commonly attends this affection, ought to prevent such an error. The history of the case is enough to distinguish it from a bruise ; and the different centres of redness or congestion from erysipelas. Its treatment is simple. Saline purgatives, tonics, aud a carefully Treatment Tcgulated diet are, as a rule, sufficient in a general way; and the of erythema application of a lead lotion to the inflamed part, with elevation of the ’'odosum. limbs, is generally all the local treatment that is required; but in exceptional cases warm fomentations, with or without poppy decoction, give greater comfort. ON TEAUMATIC FEVER, SEPTIC51MIA, AND PY^IMIA. Inflammatory fever, surgical, suppurative, or traumatic fever; Definition, septicaemia, ichoraemia, puerperal fever, and pyajmia, may all be con- sidered as so many different names for, aud manifestations of, one condition, viz. blood poisoning. In inflammatory and surgical fever “the returning fluids of the Infection inflamed part, its venous blood, and its lymph, are the agents of general witliin. infection ” (Simon), the poisoning being “ due to the introduction into the torrent of the circulation of toxic substances produced by the organism itself’’ (Maisouneuve), the poison being probably derived from disintegrated tissues and generated from within the body. In septicmmia, ichorffimia, puerperal fever, and pyaemia, the ahsorp- From tion oi putrid inflammatory products, or of pus or pus-forming material, '"’ffhout. or of some other poison, whether from a wounded part or not, is the undoubted cause of the disease ; the poison being taken into the body, either by the veins or by the absorbents from without. Traumatic or surgical fever may, however, pass into septicaemia, and this into pyaemia, the first being the mildest form of blood poisoning, the last the most