16 ON INFLAMMATION. the gener.il chemistry of inflammatory fever. They seem to indicate that the fibriniferousness of the blood in inflammation represents action of devitalisation and decay in some albuminous material. Whether this changing material be the inflamed texture gradually dissolving itself into the blood, or be the albumen of the fevered blood itself under- going accelerated waste, cannot in the present state of knowledge be even approximately stated.” (Simon.) With this brief description of the phenomena of inflammation and inflammatory fever, I propose next to consider the effects of inflamma- tion, or excess of action, on a given part. The ~Effects of Inflammation on a Part. When inflammation attacks a wound, or excess of action exists in it, repair is interfered with, retarded, or destroyed, in proportion to the intensity of the inflammation; because anything like inflammation of the part is fatal to the immediate union of a wound, as it is to healing either by scabbing or secondary adhesion. In primary adhesion and in healing by granulation, an inflammation sufficient to lead to the pouring out of plastic reparative matter (the granulation tissue of Vir- chow, embryonic tissue of Rindfleisch) is not injurious; but it must not go beyond this point. When acute inflammation attacks a wound either of the soft parts or of bone, there is an end to all repair, and partial, union may be changed into complete disunion, or the inflamed tissue may wholly or in part die. When soft tissues die in mass they are said to mortify ; when this action is spreading it is called gangrene, or sloughing phagedeena; and the dead part thrown off is known as a slough. The death of bone is called “ necrosis,” and the dead piece of bone a “sequestrum.” When a portion'of tissue dies, the dead is separated from the living piece by a process known as that of ulceration ; when the ulceration spreads, an ulcer is said to exist; when this undergoes repair, it does so by granulation. Ulceration of a part means its mole- cular death. There is, however, a low or asthenic form of inflammation found in flammatiou. subjects of feeble and depressed powers which differs in a measure from that which we have been considering. It usually comes on at some late period of the healing process, and manifests itself by clinical phe- nomena of a subdued character. Redness will be present, although it will not be of a vivid, but of a dull and dusky character; swelling, too, will exist, but it will be of an oedematous kind; the pain wiU be dull, and the discharge serous or sero-purulent. It affects repair as injuriously as the more sthenic form. Such, then, are the chief local effects of inflammation on a wound ; but there are others of no little importance to which attention must be drawn, the principal one referring to inflammatory exudation into a part. Swelling and We have already stated that when inflammation attacks a tissue, its varieties, swelling is one of the chief clinical signs, and this, without doubt, is directly caused by effusion. The character of this effusion also varies with the activity, character, or specific nature of the inflammation. When the inflammation is of a healthy or sthenic kind, it will tend towards the fibrinous variety, producing plastic infiltration of the part; Effects of excess of inffamma- tion. Arrest of repair.