SYPHILIS. 80 Summary of the poison. Can it he recognised by the sore? Only known by its consti- tutional effects. On actjuired 83rphilis. Cause. Its appearance. diluted in one subject, may, when introduced into another, behave as if it had been taken from a spreading primary sore, the explanation of most clinical facts becomes easy. Syphilis is an animal and a human poison; it is capable of propagation from the secretion of any syphilitic to a virgin subject in all its inten- sity, by anyform of inoculation ; it may likewise be inherited. Nothing is known of its nature, although its effects are sufficiently familiar. The syphilitic virus, writes Bumstead (‘ Venereal Dis.,’ 1870), “ is alone capable of infecting the system at large and of affording protection by its presence against subsequent attacks. Unlike the poison of gonor- rhoea and of chancre, it is not limited to purulent matter, but exists in the blood, in the fluids of secondary lesions, in the semen, and probably in other secretions.” How, then, it may be asked, is syphilis to be recognised ? Is it to be recognised in its primary inoculation, or is it only to be known by its constitutional symptoms ? It has been already stated that most authorities are agreed upon the fact that there is no form of local sore or chancre that can be said •with certainty to be the result of the local inoculation of syphilis. In the cartilaginous indurated sore, with enlarged indurated glands, there is every probability of syphilis manifesting its presence j and in the multiple, suppurating, non-indurated chancre there is every proba- bility of no such symptoms appearing. But in the first form such symptoms may not, and in the second they may appear. Con- sequently, as a law, this distinction becomes of little value. Indeed, syphilis as a constitutional disease can only be known by the manifesta- tions of its symptoms, and not by the inoculation; in the same way as smallpox, when propagated by inoculation, is only to be recognised by the eruption, and not by the local appearances resulting from inoculation. Acquired syphilis. Acquired syphilis is always contracted through inoculation from a chancre, or from a syphilitic mucous tubercle, condyloma, or other sore, or from the secretions of a syphilitic subject; the secretion of one form of syphilitic sore from one subject being capable of producing a chancre of another form in another subject. Mr. John Morgan, of Dublin, by experiments, has been led to be- lieve that “the discharge of a syphilitic female produces on syphi- litics the sore identical with that produced from the soft sore or chancre.” After inoculation a certain time usually elapses before the poison manifests its presence, which varies from six to twelve weeks. In exceptional cases, the symptoms of syphilis may appear within the month, or fail to appear for four or more months, but every week that passes after the third month without their manifestation lessens the likelihood of their appearance, and when six months have elapsed without syphilitic symptoms showing themselves the proba- bilities of their doing so are very slight. The different forms of syphilitic inoculation will be considered under the head of chancre, &c. Dismissing, therefore, the consideration of the character of the sore to which the poison of syphilis usually gives rise, with the simple reminder that there is positively no specific sore, the constitutional