OPERATIONS ON THE CORNEA. 358 Removal of apex of cone. Occurrence of anterior synechia. Removal of portion of thickness of cornea. Tintiu”:. Repetition of operation. Perforation of anterior chaniher. Staphyloma. each bein» to flatten the cone, and restore to the cornea more or less of its natural curvature. In one operation an elliptical portion including the whole thickness of the cornea is removed from the apex of the cone. The operation can be performed thus (for the position of patient and operator see Pig. 94, p. 340):—An anaesthetic should he given, the lids held open by a wire speculum, and the eyeball fixed by seizing with the toothed forceps the conjunctiva and subconjunctival fascia at some point near the corneal margin. A straight cataract extraction knife (Fig. 103 e) should then be thrust through the cone from side to side, a small flap formed by cutting out either upwards or downwards, and the flap so made seized with iris forceps and removed with scissors. In this operation the anterior chamber is opened and the cornea collapses as soon as the first incision is made. Care must be taken that the portion removed includes the moat prominent part of the cone, and that the opening left is exactly opposite the pupil. After the operation the speculum must be very carefully removed, the lids gently closed and bandaged in the usual way; the eye must on no account be examined for a week, so as to give time for the open- ing in the cornea to fill up. The wound will, in all probability, heal in the course of ten days, the anterior chamber being restored. The margin of the pupil is not unfrequently caught up in the in- cision, an anterior synechia resulting. The operation described gives the most satisfactory results, the cur- vature of the cornea being greatly improved, and a corresponding amount of vision regained. In the second operation a superficial portion only is removed from the apex of the cone with a small trephine, a raw surface being left, which by its subsequent cicatrisation and contraction causes consider- able flattening of the cone Tinting the cornea is called for in cases of dense white opacity (leucoma), causing disfigurement. The operation can be performed as follows: For position of patient and operator see Fig. 94, p. 340. An anses- thetic having been given, the operator should place the wire speculum between the lids, fix the globe with the toothed forceps, paint some Indian ink upon the opacity, and prick it thoroughly in with a bunch of needles fixed in an ivory handle; the ink should be sponged away from time to time in order to allow the operator to see what progress he has made. The opacity having been thoroughly tinted, the speculum should be removed; no bandage need be apjilied, and no after-treatment is necessary ; very little irritation follows. If after the lapse of a week or ten days the opacity do not appear sufficiently blackened, the opera- tion may be repeated. If the ink be allowed to get into the wound made in the conjunctiva by the toothed forceps, a black mark will be left; care should therefore be taken to fix the globe at a point to which the ink cannot run. Should the anterior chamber be opened, the operation must be discon- tinued, as the lens may be wounded. Staphyloma, first so called from its supposed resemblance to a grape, has now come to mean a bulge on any part of the eyeba On the cornea it is caused either by yielding of its structure or