INTRA-SPINAL INFLAMMATION, ETC. 265 spine; it may advance in a very insidious manner, even after injuries that were of so slight a kind that they attracted at the time little or no attention.” Thus wrote Abercrombie in 1829, and his observations are as true now as they were then. Upon such views, the whole treatment of injuries to the spine, simple or severe, ought always to be based. 'The preventive treatment of spinal as of head injuries means the adoption of such measures as experience has proved are most valuable in warding off the accession of intra-spinal and intra-cepbalic in- flammation, and thus preventing paralysis. The simplest shock or concussion of the spinal cord; the slightest blow upon the spine or i„fiamraation sprain of its ligaments; any bruising of the former or laceration of of cord, the latter; and, a fortiori, any severer lesion, is apt to be followed by an acute or chronic intra-spinal inflammation, and, by changes iu the structure of the cord that may give rise to a paralysis, partial or complete. The surgeon has, moreover, no guide by which to measure the danger or calculate the probabilities of the occur- rence of this secondary inflammation, since it may follow a slight accident, and fail to follow a severe one. In a general way, the pros- pects of its appearance and its danger depend much upon the gravity of the injury. When the cord has been much contused or crushed by a fractured or dislocated vertebra, the paralysis that necessarily follows such a lesion is not likely to be aggravated by anj' secondary inflammatory changes in the injured cord, although the termiuation of the case may be hastened by these changes. Under such circumstances, the complica- tion is not of such a nature as to add to the surgeon’s anxiety. In Necessity of less severe examples of injury, however, in which the primary symp- toms do not indicate any organic lesion beyond that which manifests symptoms, its presence by some temporary suspension of the functions of the cord, it becomes a matter of primary importance to recognise the very earliest indication of inflammatory action, in order that it may be arrested; for, as it has been shown, that the chief aim in the treatment of all these injuries is, to prevent the occurrence of inflammation, so the second is, to try and arrest its progress as soon as it has appeared. When it has become thoroughly established, neither medical nor surgical art has much power in checking its progress or in correcting its effects; as the delicate structure of the spinal cord appears to be incapable of undergoing material repair when softened by disease or crushed by accident. The cord structure when once destroyed is replaced by means of a fibrous substance. Paralysis or loss of function, under these circumstances, is permanent. In any case, therefore, of spinal Symptoms injury, when the symptoms are persistent or tend to become worse; 9^ when after their partial or complete disappearance for three or four ' or more days they recur or appear in some altered form; when local pain is increased, and movement of the back is more difficult or dis- tressing; when pain follows the course of the nerve trunks that emanate from the injured spinal centre, and muscular spasm or para- lysis is present; and, moreover, when constitutional disturbance or general febrility is present; when any or all of these symptoms, few or many, are found to follow a spinal injury after the first effects of the accident have passed away, the diagnosis of secondary inflamma- tion of the cord may fairly be made, and action taken upon it.