359 OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. more commouly by prolapse of iris through a perforation in it, the prolapsed portion being firmly coated over with inflammatory material. Staphyloma is said to be “ total ” where the whole of the cornea is Total stnphy- affected, “ partial ” when some portion of it retains its normal curvature. Total staphyloma should be removed by abscission (see p. 375), or the eyeball may be excised. Partial staphyloma may subside on the perform- Partial ance of iridectomy, or can be removed as follows:—The position of patient staphyloma, and operator should be <as at Fig. 94, p. 340, and an anaesthetic should be administered. The lids being kept open by the wire speculum, a curved needle armed with fine silk should be passed through the base of the staphyloma, an elliptical portion of which should then be re- moved with a straight cataract knife; the silk should then be drawn through and tied, thus bringing the edges of the gap made by the removal of the elliptical portion together, and the eye bandaged in the usual way. The suture may be removed in the course of three or four days. Foreign bodies.—Small fragments of metal, chips of stone, thorns, Removal of &c., are not uufrequently found lodged in the cornea. To remove them the position of patient and operator should be as Fig. 93, p. 340. Asa rule no anaesthetic need be administered. The lids should be kept open by the fore and ring fingers of one hand, and the globe steadied by gently pressing upon it with the second finger ; the foreign body should then be carefully lifted from its bed with the point of a knife or small spud held lightly in the other hand. Foreign bodies, espe- cially thorns, are sometimes so firmly and deeply embedded that they require to be cut out. New growths may be met with springing from the cornea. Congenital tumour is a small white flattened elevation usually situated Coiigeuiial near the corneal margin, encroaching on both cornea and sclerotic; it tumour, lies beneath the corneal epithelium and conjunctiva, and appears to extend pretty deeply into both cornea and sclerotic; the growth is present at birth, but usually increases somewhat as the child grows up. It may give rise to astigmatism by causing distortion of the cornea. The growth may be single or there may be two or three little tumours. Their structure is that of connective tissue, and occasionally small hairs grow upon them. Should the little growths give rise to inconvenience they can be shaved off level with the cornea, but as a rule they cannot be entirely removed. Round and spindle-celled sarcomata have also been met with growing from the cornea. Such cases usually call for extirpation of the eyeball. THE IRIS. Iridectomy is called for in all c.ases in which it is desirable to in- Iridectomy, fluence the tension or nutrition of the eyeball; it is associated with some operations for cataract j in a somewhat modified form, is one of the methods of making an artificial pupil, and is useful in some other conditions. The operation is performed (1) to influence tension. To influence (a) In sloughing ulcers, or suppuration of the cornea, accompanied by pain, and threatening perfoi-ation. In such cases iridectomy gives ^cera'.^^ almost instant relief to the most severe pain, and in all probability will save the cornea from rupture.