BURNS AND SCALDS. 154 11 per cent, proved fatal; and of 28 cases of burns from gunpowder, 14 per cent, succumbed, the difference between these classes of cases being very great, burns being four times as fatal as scalds, and these half as fatal again as gas explosions, &c. Pathology. Pathology.—Holmes has gone into this question more thoroughly than any other author (‘ System,’ vol. ii), and has given us an analysis of 68 fatal cases examined after death. Nine died from shock in the first two days, all being children; 17 from exhaustion, 5 wdthin the week, and 12 at later periods. In 3 cases in which the scalp was burnt, erysipelas proved fatal; in 3 pyaemia, and in 2 tetanus. In 11 cases of children cerebral complications caused death, and in most of these the symptoms appeared soon after the accident. In 6 cases inflammation of the larynx proved fatal, evidently from the direct inhalation of the flames; in 12 cases, where in all of which the burn was thoracic, chest complications killed ; in 4 only did abdominal mischief prove fatal, and of these one bad peritonitis, the result of a deep burn, two had haemorrhage from ulceration of the duodenum, and one had vomiting from the same cause. Holmes and Ericbsen also dwell upon the fact that cerebral and gene- ral visceral congestions are always present in fatal cases; indeed, in all, the congestion is a passive condition, due to the “ sudden revulsion of blood from the surface,” caused by the skin injury. Ulceration With respect to intestinal complication, it seems that out of of the Holmes’s and Erichsen’s 125 fatal cases, 16 presented ulceration in the duodenum, duodenum, of which 5 died during the first week and 5 in the second, the situation of the burn in all but two being on the chest or abdomen. “ The ulcer always has an indolent aspect, and is situated below the pylorus; often there are two or three close together; the edges of the ulcers are not raised nor everted; there is little or no evidence of inflam- matory effusion in their neighbourhood; when they are recently formed, they look simply as if a portion of the mucous membrane had been cut out; but when the ulcer has penetrated more deeply, so as to threaten perforation of the gut, lymph may often be found effused on its peri- toneal surface. Sometimes the glands of the duodenum may be found enlarged.” (Holmes.) The symptoms of duodenal ulceration are most obscure, as neither pain nor tenderness exists; diarrhoea is neither constant nor excessive; vomiting is perhaps a more common symptom; and the presence of blood in the motions is highly suspicious. When the ulcer has per- forated the intestine, intense pain, vomiting of blood, mehena, collapse and abdominal distension, mark the fact. It should be noted that cicatrised duodenal ulcers have been found in patients who have died of other complications. Treatment of TREATMENT.—In all burns, great care should be observed in remov- bunis, &c. ing the clothes to save the cuticle. Blisters should be carefully punctured and their contents evacuated, the raised cuticle being gently pressed down to the true skin and covered by dressings. When the patient is cold, or shivering exists, be should be covered with a warm blanket and placed near the Are, some wine or brandy and hot water being administered. Professor Hebra speaks well of the warm bath under these circumstances. When the injury is extensive, one part should be uncovered and dressed before the other, as a free exposure of the surface tends to increase the shock and adds to the pain. As pain is the constant accompaniment of all burns and scalds, and the