EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL, ETC, 291 tensity and extent till it becomes almost unendurable, darting from the tumour up and down the limb or over the body. The muscles of the limb may likewise be spasmodically affected. The paroxysm^ may last only a few minutes, or may continue for hours, and subsides as it appears, gradually, leaving the parts tender that were the seat of pain. These painful tumours are most frequent in the female, the neuromata more frequent in the male. Tbeatment.—The only treatment is the excision of the growth, which Excision, is generally effectual. These tumours rarely recur, although Sir J. Paget has recorded one or two examples of recurrence. CHAPTER YIII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE, &o. By Chables Higgens. EXAMINATION OP THE EYEBALL AND ITS APPENDAGES, The examination of the eyeball will be considered under four heads:— 1st. By the unaided eye. 2nd. By means of lateral illumination. 3rd, By the ophthalmoscope. (a) Direct examination. (b) Indirect examination. 4tb. By manipulation. The refraction of tlie eyeball, the field of \usion, &c., will also receive a short notice. I. Examination by the unaided Eye. Examination In order to examine the outer surface of the eyelids, ocular con- junctiva, cornea, anterior portion of sclerotic, aqueous chamber, and lachrymal apparatus, it is necessary to place the patient in a good light (as before a window), and direct him at first to close the eyes, then open them widely, and look by turns in different directions. To examine the palpebral conjunctiva it is necessary to evert the How to evert upper lid, and to draw the lower one downwards. Eversion of the upper lid. upper lid can be accomplished thus:—The surgeon, standing in front of the patient, should direct him to look downwards and close the eyes j he should then place the forefinger of one hand upon the lid at the attached or upper border of the tarsal cartilage, and make gentle pres- sure downwards and backwards, so as to cause the free edge of the lid to stand away from the eyeball; then place his thumb beneath the mar- gin of the lid, and make a slight upward movement, at the same time continuing the pressure with the finger; by this means the lid will be made to turn upon itself and become everted; the lid may also be everted by pressing a probe horizontally upon its outer surface, and drawing it upwards by means of the lashes, at the same time making pressure downwards with the probe. To examine the conjunctiva covering the lower lid, all that is necessary is to place the finger upon the margin of the lid and draw it strongly downwards, when its conjunctival surface will become exposed.