702 PAINFUL ULCER OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. Local signs. External examination. pipe-like, and this diminution is produced by the spasm of the sphincter, the size of a motion being, in disease as in health, greatly determined by the condition of the sphincter. On examining the anus, the first fact that strikes the observant eye is the unnatural resistance the patient makes on separating the buttocks; and, on doing this, the powerful contraction of the sphincter that will be visible. On attempting to introduce the finger, considerable re- sistance will be encountered, and the greatest pain caused if the surgeon persevere in his attempt. The symptoms and local signs of the affection are indeed so charac- teristic, that the true nature of the case can, as a rule, be diagnosed without the aid of a digital internal examination; and a careful external examination will often reveal the presence of an ulcer on the verge of or within the sphincter ; when within, its outer border will be visible, ^ze of^cer^ ulcer is usually though not invariably placed at the posterior margin of the anus, and is rarely larger than a sixpence, if so large. When recent, it will be soft, with slightly elevated edges j and when of long standing, indurated with an irregular surface, small polypoid growths fringing its border. The ulcers are at times multiple, in exceptional cases involving the bowel higher up. It is an affection of the mucous and submucous tissue, and painful only from its position, besides being obstinate in healing from its connection with the sphincter ani. Simple fissures of the anus rarely involve other than the mucous membrane and skin around the parts, and are often associated with piles, though occasionally with small polypi. Ulcers are often hidden from view when piles or folds of skin exist about the anus, but pain indicates their presence. In women this afiliction is so often associated with reflected uterine symptoms as to be frequently overlooked, and in men, urinary irrita- tion may mask the disease. Reflected nerve pains in the perineum and down the leg as in sciatica, or in the loins as in lumbago, &c., are often induced by the affection. Treatment.—Happily for patients, the treatment of this disease is as successful as it is simple. Simple fissures are readily treated by the administration of a laxative, the local application of the nitrate of silver or of lead lotion mixed with the extract of opium, and local clean- liness, with simple, nutritious and unstimulating diet. When the parts are indolent, or syphilis suspected, black wash may be used, or calomel dusted over the part, or applied as an ointment, five grains to a drachm of lard. In other cases, the application of mercurial ointment with the extract of belladonna gives relief. Injections of the decoction of rha- tany twice a day, or of an enema composed of a di’achm each of the extract and tincture of rhatany in five ounces of water are sometimes of great use, as also iodoform as an ointment ten grains to the ounce. When a larger ulcer exists, the cause of spasm and pain, and is quite recent, the same treatment may be employed; but, when the ulcer has existed for any time and has a hard base, it is quite exceptional for a cure to take place by these means, the surgeon being hardly justified in making the attempt, when he has at hand such an efficient means as the division of the base of the ulcer with the superficial fibres the ulcer and external sphincter. This can be done in many cases by the in- spSotL troduction of the finger with a probe-pointed bistoury pressed flat upon it, to the upper margin of the ulcer, and the division of the base of Treatment in simple tissui'es. In ulcerations. Division of