611 PROTRUDING INTESTINE. f 10. 254. from gunshot, &c., we should not hesitate to fix the edges to the external wound, and risk the chance of an artificial anus. When the bowel is stitched to the edges of the external wound care should he taken to maintain the line of the canal as much as possible and not to draw the intestine more out of its position than is absolutelj' neces- sary. The general and local treatment of all these cases is similar to that already laid down for the treatment of other abdominal and visceral injuries. Penetrating abdominal wounds compli- cated with wounds of the viscera, but with- out protrusion, are, doubtless, far more serious than any that have been hitherto considered, and their effects depend greatly on the condition of the viscus when wounded. Thus the puncture of a distended stomach, intestine, or bladder, will to a cer- tainty be followed by extravasation into the abdominal cavity, and, as a result, by great shock and diffuse peritonitis; whereas these organs, when empty, and therefore con- tracted, may receive a limited injury without any such consequences taking place, local inflammation rapidly arising under these circumstances and sealing the wound. Nevertheless, remarkable cases of recovery after impalement are on record, and not the least is that of a boy, mt. 11, who fell upon a rick- stake, the stake penetrating his body for seventeen and a half inches. It entered the abdominal cavity in the right groin, beneath Poupart’s ligament, passed through it to the left side into the thorax, through the diaphragm—displacing the heart and pushing it to the right side of the sternum—into the left lung and passed out of the chest between the seventh and eighth ribs into the axillary space. The stake was removed four hours after its introduction, and not a tea- spoonful of blood was lost. Some intestine which protruded from the wound in the groin w'as replaced, and the inguinal wound stitched up. Opium, with calomel, was freely given subsequently, and in six w'eeks the hoy was able to sit up, play, and eat his ordinary food. Five months after the accident he w'as free from pain, and able to walk freely. The case occurred in the practice of Mr. Reynolds, of Thame, Oxon, and is recorded in the ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Sept. 23, 1871. The chief risks of wounds of the viscera when the solid Illustrating one form of appli- cation of suture to the in- testine. The thread is made thick for the sake of clear- ness. For another »i</« Fig. 35, p. 146. organs become implicated are haemorrhage, and when the hollow, extra- vasation. When the contents of the wounded organ escape externally through the wound, the danger of the case is undoubtedly lessened. When the stomach is supposed to be wounded by a puncture the utmost care is called for to prevent the administration of any food j indeed nothing should enter the stomach for several days, and life should be maintained by nutrient enemata, because to excite any action of the organ would undo what nature may have done for the Fixing to external wound. Wounded viscera without protrusion. Result. Case. Escape of contents through external wound.