163 ON SKIN GRAFTING. in a medical journal, and I find they answer far better than anything else, inasmuch as they take away a portion of skin that will cut into three or four pieces, and the section includes only the upper layer of tlie true skin, with theretemucosum. They do not cut into the fat beneath the skin, nor divide the papillaB sufficiently far to draw blood or to give pain. Patients never object, with this instrument, to a second or third piece being taken away, should it be deemed necessary. The skin may, however, he removed with a fine lancet, either by perforation or after its elevation upon the point of a needle. I generally take the skin from the fore part of the arm or the side of the thorax. Having taken away the skin, the fragment should be cut into three, tyhere to four, or more pieces, and these placed about half an inch or three place quarters of an inch from the margin of the sore, and about one inch frao“enta. apart; for there is no doubt that the engrafted centre has a stronger influence in exciting a healing action in the margin of the sore when placed near it, than when isolated in the centre of a granulating surface. The pieces should be placed upon the granulations, and gently pressed in. There is no necessity to wound the granulating surface. They should be covered with a piece of oiled gutta-percha skin, and the whole supported with cotton wool; a bandage being subsequently fi applied, so as to press moderately upon the part, and keep the dressing i in position. On the third day, but not before, the dressings may be Not to 'I removed with the greatest care, and a fresh piece of oiled gutta-percha change 1 skiu should be subsequently applied. thlr^ J The appearances of the engrafted pieces on the removal of the first day. i dressing vary considerably. At times they will seem palpably to have . taken root and be alive; at others to have disappeared altogether; whilst in a third class the surface of the cuticle will be seen floating, as a thin film, upon the secretion of the sore, the basement membrane (I of the cuticle—the essential part—being left (Fig. 46). Fig. 46. I'lo. 47. Drawings illustrating the cicatrisation of sores by skiu grafting.