293 EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL, ETC. can the lachrymal gland be felt or seen in a normal condition of the parts. II. Examination by Lateral Illumination. By this method all the parts mentioned above are seen more clearly, ExHinination minute foreign bodies, slight opacities of the cornea, &c., which might he overlooked in examining with the unaided eye, are discovered, and in addition the whole of the lens and the anterior portion of the vitreous can most satisfactorily be looked into. The method of e.xamination should he as follows :—The patient should he seated in a dark room (the pupil having been previously dilated with atropine), and a lamp placed at about two feet distance on the left, and rather in front of his face. The surgeon should stand nearly in front, or rather to the patient’s right side, and facing him; he should then take in his right hand a biconvex lens of about two and a half inches’ focal length,' and with it concentrate the light on the sur- face of the cornea; with a little manoeuvring he will find that he can throw the light through the pupil to a considerable depth into the eye. The patient should be told to look in various directions, so that all parts of the anterior portion of the eye may be examined. The results obtained by lateral illumination are chiefly negative. Results The lens in health is perfectly transparent, and in youth is nearly obtained, colourless, but some bluish lines showing its division into difl’erent seg- ments can he recognised by careful examination. As age advances, these lines become more marked, and the whole lens appears of a bluish- grey colour, though its transparency is still unaffected. Behind the lens all appears dark, but any tumour, haemorrhage, &c., occupying the anterior part of the vitreous would be discovered. It should be noticed in the examination by lateral illumination that opacities of the cornea, &c., always appear with greatest distinctness on the side which is farthest from the light. A second lens may also he used to magnify the parts illuminated by means of the first. III. Examination by the Ophthalmoscope. Description of the instrument.—'Mhe ophthalmoscope, as used at the Ophthalmo- present day, consists essentially of a mirror of silvered glass or polished scope, metal, having a central opening, with certain accessory portions in the shape of convex lenses of different foci, used as objective lenses; clips and other contrivances for holding ocular lenses behind the sight hole of the ophthalmoscope, together with the ocular lenses themselves. The ophthalmoscope since its introduction has undergone innumerable modifications, both in principle and detail; the number of different instruments now in use being nearly, or quite, as great as that of ophthalmic surgeons. The most useful form of ophthalmoscope is that of Liebreich ; li.hriprh-, the latest modification (Fig. 89) of this instrument consists of a silvered glass concave mirror of about eight inches’ focal length having a central opening in the silvering of a line and a half diameter. The mirror is fixed in a metal hack, having a central perforation about double the diameter of the opening in the silvering. Upon the metal back is fixed a clip for the purpose of holding an ocular lens; the back is screwed to a handle about two and a quarter inches lont>-. The ’ A lens of two and a half inches’ focal length is about equal to one of sixteen dinn tries m the metrical system (see p. 301). ='-Mceu uiop-