64 ON SEPTICiElVIIA. Laxatives. Opening of pus depots. Exciting causes. Propliy- lactics. Value of stimulants. Should diarrhoea exist it must not he checked too suddenly, for in some cases ot blood poisoning it appears to have an eliminative ten- dency ; it should be stopped only when telling on the patient’s powers. To give remedies, however, with the view of eliminating the poison by the bowel is a rash practice, and cannot be recommended. The sul- phites and chlorides in any of their forms do not appear to have any power to neutralise the poison in the blood; they have been, however highly praised. The alkaline salts have likewise been strongly recom- mended “ to promote the changing and eliminating of the products of the retrograde metamorphosis of the tissues ” (Savory). Of these the carbonate of ammonia is probably the best, either given alone or with the liquid extract of hark. When secondary abscesses have formed in the cellular tissue and between the muscles they should be opened; hut great caution must he observed in dealing with inflamed joints. When the presence of pus can he clearly made out it should be evacuated by a free incision into the joint, and care taken that it does not re-accumulate; when pos- sible a drainage tube should be introduced into the cavity, and the joint daily freely washed out with a stream of warm water coloured with Condy’s, or some other disinfecting fluid, such as carbolic acid, one part in forty, or iodine water composed of one drachm of the tinc- ture of iodine to a pint of water. Soothing applications should at the same time be employed, poppy fomentations being probably the best. When acute blood poisoning has set in, it is almost needless to say that amputation of a diseased limb has no influence in checking the disease, nor has the application of caustics or cauteries to a wound; indeed, no local treatment is known by which the formation of secon- dary abscesses can be prevented. In chronic pyaemia, however, ampu- tation is often of essential service. How far blood poisoning can be prevented is another question, and as it is an important one it may be considered here. As to the exciting cause of the disease nothing is known. It attacks the healthy as well as the cachectic; those surrounded by perfect hygienic influences, as well as those subjected to the most unfavorable, and it is found in private as well as in public practice. It is true that the cachectic, and those who are subjected to close and unhealthy atmospheres, are the more prone to its attack, and that over- crowding in small wards, had ventilation, had drainage, and bad feeding, with every other influence that has a depressing action on the vital powers, are known to have an injurious tendency. It becomes the surgeon’s duty, therefore, to ward off, as far as he can, all such influences. In cases for operation, when time is allowed for pre- paration, the general condition of the patient should he investigated ; care should he taken that the excretory glands are performing their functions, and, if not, they should, if possible, be at once corrected. The feeble must be strengthened by tonics and good nutritious food, and the supply of stimulants should be regulated in all. The intemperate man should be brought to see the necessity for moderation, and to know that life cannot long be sustained by drink alone; he must learn also that stimulants are chiefly of value in assisting di- gestion and the assimilation of nutritious food. The urine under all circumstances should be examined for albumen; for although ^ its presence would not deter the surgeon from performing an