ABDOMINAL HERNIA. G48 Gurgling. Capable of being replaced. Diagnosis of concents. Hernia of infants. Treatment. Talliative use of truss. Hydrocele of hernial sac. Case. impulse will be felt by the hand when placed over it if the patient coughs, and a peculiar gurgling sound will be heard on the application of pressure to the part to cause its reduction. The return of the bowel also into the abdominal cavity will be marked by the disappearance with a jerk of the contents of the sac, and a distinct appreciation by the finger of the aperture through which it has passed. “ If the surface of the tumour be uniform, if it be elastic to the touch, if it become tense and enlarged when the patient is troubled with wind, holds his breath or coughs; if in the latter case it feels as if it were inflated, if the part return with a peculiar noise and pass through the opening at once, the contents of the swelling are intestine. If the tumour be compressible, if it feel flabby and uneven on tbe surface, if it be free from tension under the circumstances ju.st enume- rated, if it return without a noise and pass up gradually, the case may be considered an epiplocele. If a portion of the contents slip up quickly and with noise, leaving behind something which is less easily reduced, the case is probably an entero-epiploceleP (Lawrence.) In infants where Malgaigne’s “ hernia of infants ” exists (Pig. 261), or Haller's “ hernia congenita,” both being caused by the descent of intestine into the open vaginal process of the peritoneum, the tumour is very often large when flrst discovered and often scrotal. In young adults, where the same kind of hernia exists, the swelling comes sud- denly and at once, by one rush downwards into the scrotum, this rush being accompanied with pain. In all these forms of hernia, when reducible, either the palliative plan of treatment may be employed, or what is known by the radical cure. The palliative treatment consists in tbe application of a truss—an instrument composed of a pad or cushion, connected with a metallic spring or wdth straps, and so arranged that the pressure of the pad keeps the hernia from descending; the spring maintains the pad in position, and at the same time allows perfect freedom of movement of the body. Any truss that accomplishes this is beneficial, but any that fails in this is worse than useless, as it is injurious, and gives false confidence. The operation for the radical cure of hernia will be considered under the heading “ Inguinal hernia.” Hydrocele of the Hernial Sac is a very rare affection, and not more than six cases are on record. I have seen but one true example of it, that is, if the term be confined to such cases of accumulation of fluid in the hernial sac in which the neck of the sac is occluded by some adherent omentum or intestine, or by the radical cure. The case occurred in a man mt. 40, who had been treated for hydrocele of the right testicle for twenty years, and had frequently been tapped. He was under my care with a scrotal swelling which extended up to the internal ring, and obscure symptoms of intestinal obstruction. He was tapped and serous fluid was drawn off, but the symptoms continued. After the lapse of two or three days, as the abdominal symptoms increased in severity in my absence, an exploratory operation was performed, and a mass of what was supposed to be omentum or an omental sac containing intes- tine was found blocking up the internal ring. This was opened and