168 BOILS. Boila of two forma. Causes of boils. Treatment of boils. Constitu- tional. Diet. in the boil, the slough is local and confined to one central point, while in carbuncle, the process may cover an extent of integument varying from the size of half a crown to that of a plate. Boils are met with in two forms: one as a subcutaneous swelling, attended with little pain until the skin over it inflames and suppurates. It then appears as a conical-pointed swelling, with inflamed indurated areola; this causes severe distress, until the parts give way, when the feel- ing of tension and throbbing is followed by relief due to the termination of the sloughing process, and discharge of the “ core.” When the slough has been discharged, an irregular orifice in the skin is seen covering in a cavity in the cellular tissue, which subsequently granulates, leaving a depressed cicatrix. The core or slough is composed of skin infiltrated with lymph. The second form of boil begins as an inflamed follicle or pimple, which occasionally becomes vesicular, and has a scarlet, exquisitely sen- sitive areola. It suppurates_slowly, and, as a rule, terminates with a less well-marked slough than the former kind. Such boils are more usually multiple than the other, and are often caused by the application of moist dressings, or of some cadaveric irritant. With respect to the causes of boils, nothing definite can he laid down. That they are always associated with some debilititing or allied cause is belied by daily experience, for they are certainly often seen in men and women in whom no such condition exists, and ii subjects who often declare that they “ never felt better in their lives.” ^s a rule, how- ever, this is not the case, because they more commonly occur in subjects who have either been fed to excess or been subjected to some sudden change in the nature of their diet; such for instance as ia men who un- dergo training for athletic pleasures, or who are subjectedtothe influence of foetid animal exhalations, as met with in a skin-yad, pathological room, or dissecting-room. They are seen also in the diabetc and cachectic subject, as well as in patients enfeebled by any fever or otoer debilitating cause. Gamgee tells us that they are often the result of eating diseased meat. They are also produced by the local contact of cirtain cadaveric emanations; the newly appointed post-mortem clerks «f our hospitals often falling victims, the poison acting at first as a diret irritant upon the follicles to which it is applied. They are far more «ommon in some years than in others. In persons who are predisposedto their forma- tion any local irritation is apt to produce them, such as the friction caused by rowing, the application of a poultice, water iressing, strap- ping, or a blister. They attack the integument of any prt of the body, the palms of the hands and soles of the feet being appa’ent exceptions. In the dense integument of the nape of the neck, bittock, and out- side of the thighs, they are more chronic and painful t>an in the skin of looser texture. They are troublesome local atfectiais, but seldom endanger life. In rare instances they are followed by epticaemia and death, hut only in one instance have I known this to ocur. Tbeatment.—The general treatment must depend upon the con- dition of the body and the apparent cause of the omplaint, any unwholesome habit being corrected, and any evident want supplied. Under other circumstances the practice must be direced on general principles. The diet should he nutritious, but not to stimulating, exercise short of fatigue should always be allowed, and fnsh air obtained when possible. The secretions should too he looked to, aid, when out of