574 DENTAL SURGERY. Caries, its great prevalence. Secondary dentine, Different kinds ot. Dentine of repair. " Dentine excres- cence.” Intrinsic calcification. Exostosis. by escbarotics and be extirpated, before its sphacelus has involved the structures external to the root. The practical remark may here be made, that up to middle age, probably 90 per cent, of the teeth that are lost owe their destruction to caries, while later in life recedence of the gums and absorption of the alveolus—often prematurely induced by the presence of tartar— leads to the loss of many teeth by depriving them of implantation. Before reviewing the agencies destructive to the teeth, it will be well to consider the nature of secondary dentine and cemental exostosis, which occupy a debatable position between physiological and patho- logical tooth formations. Secondary Dentine.—Three different developments come under this name. The first, called by Salter “ Dentine of repair,” has been al- luded to already. The loss of dentine externally through abrasion, caries, erosion, or fracture, will oftentimes produce compensatory de- velopment internally—at the point where the affected dentinal tuhuli abut on tbe surface of the pulp; this reparative growth prevents pulp exposure when, from attrition, the enamel and a considerable portion of dentine have been worn away from the surface of a tooth, and some- times it will obliterate the pulp chamber. In cases of decay “ dentine of repair” does not often, unaided, prevent exposure of the pulp, but it hinders it, and becomes a valuable auxiliary in its protective treatment. {See Bicuspid, in D, Pig. 243, p. 579.) Second form.—Cases have been described by Salter and others in which a nodular outgrowth of dentine or osteo-dentine has projected into the pulp chamber of a sound tooth, and has given rise to severe neuralgia. This development must be regarded as morbid, and has heen named by the above author “ Dentiue excrescence.” The third form of secondary dentine is essentially an affection of the pulp. “ Intrinsic calcification” is the name proposed for it by Mr. Salter, who has described its formation as thus occurring:—Isolated masses of osteo-dentine form, at first usually in the axis of the pulp; these masses enlarge and merge into one another and spread towards the periphery, and may at length occupy the whole of the pulp chamber. This formation may be regarded as sometimes resulting from and as sometimes the cause of pulp irritation. Exostosis is a term applied to enlargement or outgrowth of the crusta petrosa {see Molar, in E, Fig.243), ranging in amount from a slight general thickening (when it can hardly be regarded as pathological) to an outgrowth which may double the size of the root and sometimes has fused together the roots of contiguous teeth. The deposition of cementum may alternate with its absorption, and not infrequently it will be found thickened on the upper part of a root where chronically inflamed periosteum exists, while the end of the root will be bare of it and be bathed in the pus of an alveolar abscess. It often causes a globular enlargement of the end of the root. Sometimes small excres- cences of it will form on tooth after tooth, and by giving rise to most severe neuralgia will necessitate their extraction. Exostosis may arise secondarily to inflammation of the periodontum, and will then be accompanied by extra vascularity and tenderness of adjacent gum, &c. The means for detecting its presence in its early stages, when arising primarily and causing neuralgia, have been already mentioned; symptoms that will be likely to attend its pro-