42 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Characters. Local conditions. Constitu- tional symptoms. Billroth on diplitheritic iuhltration. coloured, pultaceous, horribly offensive sloughs; these sloughs giving the old term “ putrid degeneration” to the disease. In one epidemic the ulcerative foi’m will predominate, in another the sloughing, and,at times, it appears as if one form of the disease would give place to the other. ^ As a rule, though not always, an open wound seems requisite for the disease to fix upon. In 1849, when the wards of Guy’s Hospital were last filled with such cases, a contused part often took*on the action, the affection commencing as a vesicle the base of which turned at once into a greyish slough, which rapidly extended. When it attacked a wound, the edges or surface would cease to secrete, but assumed a grey colour, and as a slough, would spread, small wounds enlarging even in twenty-four hours. When the slough had ceased to spread, ulceration W'ould begin to throw it off; and the fcetor of the slough, with the debris of the ulcerating tissues, formed a mass of decomposing material unequalled in any other affection. Skin readily died under the infli;ence of the process on the connective tissue; hut muscles became likewise involved; tendons and vessels gave w'ay only in prolonged cases, and hsemorrhage was rare. The parts around the w’ound showed small signs of change till the sloughing had ceased and ulceration had commenced, when the line of separation would be indicated by a red zone. The constitutional symptoms of the disease in the epidemic I have witnessed, were absent at the outset, and there was certainly neither fever nor other disturbance to indicate the approach of the action ; yet when the local disease had once manifested itself, great depression became very general. It was always remarked, how'ever, that the constitutional symptoms were never in proportion to the extent of the local affec- tion. When strong subjects were attacked the local mischief told hut little upon their powers; while with feeble subjects the effects were more marked. Military surgeons, however, have related that the constitutional often preceded the local symptoms. Hennan states this very clearly; and Thomson, of America, found a like result; while Blackadder, Delpech, Guthrie, and Macleod, found the local affection took precedence in point of time. It would rather appear from the descriptions given of the epidemic at various times, that the ulcerative form is more commonly preceded by constitutional symptoms than the sloughing—the sloughing being, apparently, a local affection at the first. During the late German campaign Professor Billroth met with a wound disease, which he had not seen before, and which he terms “ diphtheritic phlegmon,” or “ diphtheritic infiltration.” He describes three cases in which the diphtheritic appearance occurred soon after operations, and was speedily followed by fatal collapse. The entire muscular structure of the part became hard and stiff, from an indu- rated infiltration, the surface of the wound being of a pale grey. The affection was especially distinguished from gangrene by au absence of any rapid increase of the ulcerative process or of inflammatory redness in the vicinity; the surface of the wound exhibiting a larda- ceous whiteness, and not the greasy pulpiness of hospital gangrene. The broad, hard infiltration so soon following the operation, might seem to he due to contagion, by means of the dressings employed, but this was scarcely probable. In its sporadic form it especially appears