TUMOURS. 99 composed; and this again appears to be materially determined by the part of the body in which they are developed. From this, therefore, a second leading principle may he fairly de- Deduction, duced, viz. that all tumours partake of the nature of the part in which they a/re developed, and are more or less made up of the elements which naturally enter into its formation. Hence a tumour developed in the stroma of a fibrous structure will Explanation I probably be fibrous; if connected with bone more or less osseous; and if : situated in a gland, it will in all probability partake of the gland structure. ; But new growths never assume the complicated structure of a fully developed gland, they only in a degree simulate it. Wilks well expresses Wilks’s it when he says that “the great difference between physiological and remarks, pathological formations appears to be that nearly all new growths are of the simplest composition, not putting on the form of the complex organs near which they may he placed, but consisting principally of cells and fibres.” The cells and nuclei of a part, instead of developing into normal tissues, err in their course, multiplying and possibly growing, and “ whilst conforming generally with the part in which they are Paget’s placed in minute structure and composition, yet they more and more widely deviate from it in shape and size.” (Paget.) The practical bearing of these pathological principles is by no means Practical unimportant; because to the surgeon who has once recognised the true pa^o°o^cal^ position of a tumour, there is a certain amount of probability as to its principles, nature, which will at once suggest itself to his mind. If the tumour is situated in the skin or subcutaneous tissue, a strong probability exists that it will be composed of some one or other of the structures of the tissue; thus it may be the sebaceous tumour, which is rarely found in any other position, or, the fatty, for these two materials enter largely into cutaneous structures; or, it may he one of the fibrous or fibro-cellular nature, fibre-tissue existing abundantly also in these parts. Should the tumour be located between the muscles of a part, the tumour will probably be composed of connective-tissue elements, in the form of a sarcoma; being either a myxomatous, fibro-nucleated, or fibro-plastic tumour. Should hone, again, be the seat of the disease, some one of the elements of bone will, to a eertainty, enter into its formation; the probability of its being an enchondroma, an osseous or a myeloid tumour naturally presenting itself to the mind. And, lastly, should a tumour be present in a gland, such as the breast, uterus, or prostate, the probability of its being an adenoid or glandular tumour cannot be overlooked; for pathologists now all recognise the fact of the close resemblance of tumours so situated to the natural gland structure. Even in carcinomatous tumours, if modern reeorders are to be relied upon, the same principle holds good, for according to Waldeyer (‘Archives,’ Band xli, 1868), “Carcinoma is essentially an epithelial growth, and only occurs primarily where true epithelium already exists. Secondary carcinomata can only he produced by the direct propagation of the epithelial cells, which may be transported from their primary seat either through the lymph vessels, or as embola are carried through the blood-vessels to a suitable place where they '■ develop like the germs of entozoa.” ' Tumours are either simple or cancerous, innocent or malignant; the Division of ■ simple or innocent approaching, in their nature, to the more highly organ- tumours into ^ ised natural structures of the body, even to the perfect glandular; and°