214 CONCUSSION OP THE BRAIN AND ITS EFFECTS. with paralysis of the third nerve of the opposite side is indicative of lesion of the crus cerebri on the side on which the third nerve is para- lysed.” (Le Gros Clark.) Aphasia after I had once under my care a man who received a severe blow on the nijmy. jgfj. g-^jg gf j-j^g above the ear. The injury was followed by sym- ptoms of concussion, which soon passed away; but he had complete aphasia. In the course of a few days he partially recovered the ability to speak, but then so thickly that he was unintelligible; in about three weeks he could be understood, but he did not recover his natural powers of speech for at least three months. During the greater part of this time he was subject to headache, which the least exercise or excess in diet made worse. There can be little doubt that in this case the base of the middle lobe of the right side had been contused. Mr. Callender tells us “ that symptoms of aphasia are more apt to follow injury of a part of the left hemisphere outside the corpus striatum than any other part; that injuries to the right hemisphere are more rapidly fatal than are equal injuries to the left; and that the right-side brain lesions are more often associated with convulsions than are similar hurts at the opposite side.” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 6th, 1874.) Remote effects of Concussion. Remote There are, however, many injuries to the head which, without pro- coucuss^on ducing any definite symptoms, such as have been described as the result of concussion, &c., yet cause serious aud often permanent damage to the patient. The effects of a blow on the head are by no means determined by the immediate symptoms resulting, for it has often happened that a person has reeeived a trifling injury, from which he is supposed to have com- pletely recovered, while the case has ended in a permanent enfeeble- ment of the mental powers. It behoves the surgeon, therefore, to be most cautious in giving an opinion as to the issue of a case of injury to the head. As his functions seldom extend beyond the early period of treatment it is not neeessary here to enter much into detail in such cases after pointing the moral that attaches to them all. Insanity. The records of lunatic asylums prove, unhappily, that many cases of apparently trivial injury to the head, unaccompanied by symptoms which would indicate any positive affection, such as concussion, paraly- sis, &c., have ended in an affection of the brain which has rendered the patient hopelessly demented, and, moreover, has left no visible traces of the malady in the brain after death. The following may suffice as illustrations. A boy, aet. 16, fell from a tree and was found partly insensible. After a few days’ treatment he was dismissed from the hospital as “ cured.” In a few months he was obliged to be placed in a lunatic asylum, where he remained several years. A gentleman put his head out of the window of a carriage while travelling by railway, and received a scalp wound from striking against a post. He was rendered insensible at the time, but soon improved. There were no signs of importance, yet in a few weeks he was in a state of mental aberration and died in a year. A man was kicked by a horse in the stomach aud fell, striking his head on the stable floor, but had no cerebral symptoms. In a few weeks