297 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC EXAMINATION. Every oplithalmoscopic examination should be conducted on a certain definite system. The first step should be to examine the condition of the refractive media by lateral illumination. Next, the condition of refraction of the eye and the state of the vitreous chamber should be ascertained by the direct method of exami- nation. Thirdly, a general survey of the fundus oculi should be made by the indirect method. And fourthly, any abnormalities having been discovered by the in- direct examination should be fully and carefully studied in detail by the direct method. If this systematic plan of examination be carefully carried out few mistakes will be made, and no abnormality of importance is likely to be overlooked. Normal appearance of parts seen by the Ophthalmoscope. The refractive media (cornea, aqueous humour, lens, and vitreous), as stated under Lateral Illumination, are perfectly transparent. The retina is either quite transparent and colourless, or in dark eyes may appear as a faintly grey cloud, covering the choroid; it position is marked by that of its blood-vessels. The bright red reflec- tion previously mentioned is due to the blood in the choroid; the depth in colour of the reflection varies with the amount of pigmentation of this vascular tunic—in blue or grey eyes it is light red, in dark ones of a much deeper tint, and in the negro appears to be dark blue. The parts of the fundus oculi requiring special attention are the optic disc and parts immediately surrounding it, and the region of the yellow spot. The disc appears at first sight to be of an uniform pale pink colour, but on closer examination different portions are found to present dif- ferent shades. Its centre is pale, or even white; next to this succeeds a zone of pink, this being again bounded by an apparently double border of lighter colour. The pale appearance of the central portion of the disc is caused by connective tissue surrounding the blood-vessels in this situation. The succeeding pink zone consists entirely of nerve-fibres and delicate capillaries. The outer pale double border is formed by the margins of the sclerotic and choroidal rings, which do not accurately cover each other, the choroidal ring being somewdiat greater in diameter than the sclerotic opening, the margin of w'hich, being left uncovered by pig- ment, shines through the transparent nerve-fibres. Both the white central portion and the outer ring are in some cases BO distinctly mai’ked that the appeai’ance produced might be taken by an inexperienced observer as evidence of disease, but both conditions are perfectly consistent with health. From the pale central portion of the disc proceed the retinal blood-vessels; these appear upon its surface usually at the same point, but may emerge separately or in groups of two or three. As a rule about eight vessels are seen, upon or close to the disc, four of these being arteries, with a corresponding number of veins ; two of each pass upwards and a like number downwards, to be distributed over the retina. The lateral branches are comparatively insignificant, Systematic examination. Normal appearances. Betina. Cause of red rellection. Optic disc. Peculiarities of optic disc. Retinal vessels.