336 RETINITIS. optic disc, being separated from it by a grey opaque portion of retina.^ These appearances are entirely characteristic of albuminuric retinitis. Clianges in yellow spot. Leucfemic retinitis. Emholism of retina. Changes about yellow spot. Syphilitic retinitis. Whilst the above changes are going on in other parts of the retina, characteristic appearances may be developed in the region of the yellow spot. A number of small white glistening spots, which, however, do not coalesce so as to form a band, but remain distinct, make their appearance. ^ _ These glistening spots are arranged in a somewhat radiated position around the macula as a centre, and somewhat resemble a constellation; the appearance is quite characteristic, and once seen is not likely to be forgotten. As the opacity of the retina increases, the vessels become more and more obscured, so that when the disease has reached its height only a few large venous trunks are still visible. Fresh haemorrhages may occur at any time, and cover over and obscure the opaque portions of retina. After a time a retrograde process sets in, the haemorrhages and peculiar opacity slowly disappear, the retina being at length left ill a state of atrophy. Displacement of the retina may occur. Albuminuric retinitis is usually associated with granular kidney; it is dependent on the blood-vascular disease (arterio-capillary-fibrosis. Gull and Sutton), of which the kidney affection is only a part. The retinitis often appears before any sign of kidney mischief is manifested, and it is the ophthalmic surgeon who first discovers the nature of the case. Leucsemic retinitis.—A peculiar form of retinitis somewhat resem- bling the albuminuric has been described as occurring in connection with leucooythmmia. Leucaemic retinitis is marked by pallor of the optic disc, a peculiar rose colour of the retinal vessels, hemorrhages, some opacity of the retina around the optic disc, and white glistening spots similar to those met with in albuminuric retinitis, which, however, are situated in the peripheral parts of the retina. Embolism of the retina.—A form of retinitis associated with plug- ging of the central artery comes on suddenly without apparent cause, with complete loss of sight. Ophthalmoscopic examination shows some pallor of the optic disc and diminution in calibre of the vessels emerg- ing from it, but the most marked change is seen in the region of the yellow spot. The retina around the spot is grey and opaque, and numerous blood-vessels not visible under ordinary conditions come plainly into view; the macula itself is seen as a bright red spot (which might be taken for a hsemon-hage by a cai-eless observer) situated in the centre of the opaque portion of retina. The bright red appearance of the macula arises from the anatomical arrangement of the parts; the retina in this situation, being thin and firmly bound down to the parts beneath, does not become infiltrated with inflammatory exudation, and consequently the normal red colour of the fundus appears in striking contrast to the surrounding opaque retina. Hasmorrhages may occur. Syphilitic retinitis.—A form of inflammation aflectuig the retina immediately surrounding the optic disc has been looked upon by some as of syphilitic origin, but, like syphilitic iritis, rarely presents any very characteristic signs. Should retinitis occur with other manifes-