556 DENTAL SUEGEBY. Hammond’s splint. largely diluted, which not only cleanses the mouth but removes tlie foetor of the breath. I next bring (temporarily) the broken ends into approximation by passing a silk thread between and round the two teeth on each side of the fracture, and then secure by tying in front. Then with a suitable tray and very soft wax I take an impression of the teeth, to which, after its having been cast in plaster of Paris, I adjust a frame of iron wire (Fig. 235), which can be done with a pair of small curved pliers. When all is ready I slip the frame over the teeth in the mouth (Fig. 236), and while it is held in position by an assistant, proceed to tie by passing small lengths of thin iron binding wire after the manner shown in Fig. 235, twisting them in front, until each ligature is nearly tight, turning the ends on one side until they are secured. Next, with the aid of an assistant I twist the wires quite tight, working alternately each side of the mouth, so as to exert an equal pressure, and thus bring the bone into a natural position, also Fig. 235. Fig. 236. Hammond’s wire splint for Hammond’s wire splint applied to fracture of the jaw. fractured jaw. taking care not to overtwist or break them. I then cut off the ends and turn them in between the teeth. Now the jaw will be found com- paratively firm, so solid, indeed, that the patient can bite steadily on it without pain. AU that now remains to be done is to secure the jaw perfect rest by the four-tailed bandage.” (‘ Monthly Review of Dental Surgery,’ May, 1873.) It is not absolutely necessary in all cases to take a cast of the broken jaw, although it is so in some, for the surgeon may mould a frame of iron wire upon another cast and adapt it to the special case wdthout much difficulty. This frame should be worn for six weeks. DENTAL SURGERY. By Mr. Henet Moon. General Remarks on Dental Surgery. Dental Surgery, in its manipulative details, must necessarily, for the most part, be left to those who make its practice a speciality, but some acquaintance with affections of the teeth, and with the prin- ciples on which they are treated, is requhed by every one who is engaged in the practice of medicine or surgery; for without sucU knowledge he will be unable to advise his patients on the ^ preserva tion of their teeth (a subject of importance as regards their general