INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 630 1877)—the operation having been performed eighteen hours after the appearance of the symptoms. In intussusception, however, some success has followed, at times, the practice of inflation, a plan of treatment that was originally recommended by Gorham years ago, and which may be effectually carried out by connecting a syphon bottle of soda or other aerated water with a tube passed well into the bowel, the elastic gas forcing its way far better than water. When inflation cannot be used injections may be substituted. This operation, has, however, its dangers, as bowels have been ruptured by its use. I cannot therefore recommend it. Inversion of the body has likewise been advised, with the chance, that the weight of the contents of the bowel above the involuted or obstructed segment may suffice to disengage it. Mechanical kneading of the abdomen, and the administration of an anaesthetic have also been employed with a similar object. Opium should always be given in all cases of mechanical obstruc- tion, the drug not only relieving pain, but checking the peristaltic action of the bowel which is so injurious. These remedies, however, are uncertain at the best, and should be tried in early cases, when the diagnosis is uncertain and operative in- terference rejected, but they must not be used when more active treatment is called for unless such treatment is absolutely forbidden. Laparotomy, Lnparotomy from XaTrapa, the soft parts of the body below tbe ribs, and rfjuj-'w, I ot^°earc)T”°” cut,is a name which has been given by Dr. John Asburst,jun.(‘American Journ. of Med. Science,’ 1874), to an exploratory operation upon the abdomen for the relief of an internal strangulation or intussusception, and is so good that I adopt it. The term “ gastrotomy ” is applied to operations upon the stomach for the removal of foreign bodies, “ gastrostomy ” to an operation upon the stomach with a view of establishing a permanent fistula, “ colotomy ” to those upon the large intestine, and “enterotoiny ” to those upon the small. In laparotomy the abdomen should be opened in the median line below the umbilicus, though if an old hernia exists, the sac should be explored, and the abdominal incision made upwards from its neck. The abdomen should at first be explored by the finger, and more particularly towards the umbilicus, since it seems that bauds are more often found opposite the promontory of the sacrum than anywhere else. If the finger fail to find out the band, the opening must be enlarged and the l)ai'ts inspected. When the operation is performed for intussusception, and the bowel is exposed, difficulty has been experienced in freeing the involved bowel, and, under such circumstances, tbe expedient used by Mr. Hutchinson should be employed and the invaginated portion pushed out backward from its sheath. The wound should be carefully adjusted by stitches. After the operation, the patient should be kept under the influence of opium or morphia—themorphia suppository every five hours being the best form to use. Milk diet should be given in small quan- tities, and, if recovery is to follow, it will probably be speedy; as repair takes place rapidly in all abdominal sections when a case goes on well, and death ensues early when the reverse occurs. Enterotonir. Enterotomy, ^ or the opening of some portion of the small bowel generally m the right groin, is an operation of great value, and it is to be regretted that it has not received sufficient notice. It was first performed by Nelaton, Iiiflatiou. Inversion. Opium.