440 ANEURISM. ! Termination of aneurism. On external aneurism. ( Symptoms. j Diagnosis. 1 Pain. i [ Pulsating , tumour. I Expansion of tumour. i Bruit. State of pulse on affected side. and the spinal canal opened (Prep. 1489^®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus.). During this increase the tissues also surrounding the sac may inflame, though they rarely suppurate, and, by becoming condensed, give the aneurism some support and tend to retard its growth. In rare cases this inflammatory action may involve the sac itself and cause slough* ing; but when the aneurism increases unchecked it will eventually give way. A thoracic or abdominal aneurism may bur.st into a mucous tract such as the trachea, pharynx, oesophagus, or intestine, and, when it does. Dr. Gairdner(‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’vol. xlii) has shown that it proves fatal by a recurrent haemorrhage through a small orifice. When it bursts into a serous cavity, such as the pleura, pericardium, or perito- neum, it destroys by a sudden haemorrhage through a large aperture. Cases are also on record where it discharged itself into a vein or the pulmonary artery. External or surgical aneurisms burst by the for- mation and giving way of a slough. Aneurism of the extremities or surgical aneurism may give way into a joint or cellular tissue. It may burst externally only in rare instances. The surgeon however, has, more to do with external than internal aneurisms, and although the pathology of both forms is alike, the treat- ment differs. It is to surgical aneurisms, therefore, that the following remarks may specially apply, and first of all as to their symptoms and diagnosis. Symptoms and Diagnosis. An aneurism has no pathognomonic symptoms, and its early symptoms are very uncertain. It often happens that the patient’s attention is first directed to some swelling; although it may be only that of local throhhing—some weakness or stiffness of an ex- tremity—or some nerve pain preceding the discovery of the disease j yet such symptoms are not constant. When, however, the surgeon is con- sulted for pain that shoots down the course of a nerve running in con- tact with a large artery, he should allow the thought of aneurismal pressure to pass through his mind, and, when this is associated with the presence of a tumour connected with the vessel, the suspicion of its being aneurismal should he excited. If this tumour be soft and pulsating, and become tense on the application of pressure to the trunk of the artery on the distal side, and flaccid, non-pulsatile, and vanishing on pressure on the cardiac side, and, should pressure on the tumour modify the pulse in the vessel below, the chances of its being aneurismal amount almost to certainty. Should it expand again readily on the removal of the pressure, and this expansion he accompanied with a peculiar thrill on the re-admission of blood into the sac, with a bellows murmur or aneurismal bruit, synchronous with the pulse, audible too on the application of the ear to the tumour, the diagnosis is complete. The pulse of the extremity below the swelling is generally affected, which becomes weaker and slower than its fellow, and, as the disease progresses, it may cease altogether. The blood will then flow in a “ venous stream” or cease to flow either from the obstruction of the arterial trunk by the pressure of the aneurism, or the embolic occlusion of the vessel below from a dislodged coagulum. Under these circum- stances, fulue.S3 of the veins with oedema of the parts supplied by the artery will soon appear, and, at times, excruciating pain from stretching of the nerves will arise. If the aneurism be cervical and the circulation