LIGATTTEE OP AETEEIES, 490 Operation i the artery the middle the leg. even in the case of the deeply placed posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, and practically carried it out in a supposed wound of the latter vessel by making a free incision through the muscles of the calf of the leg down to the wounded artery. Arnott, also, acting on Guthrie’s sug- gestion, tied the posterior tibial by this method, though neither the report of the case (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxix), nor Mr. Arnott’s remarks, are encouraging in any way in favour of its repetition; in- deed, modern surgeons have universally rejected the method in favour of that which has now been described. It must be premised that the vessel lies beneath the superficial layer of muscles forming the calf and beneath the deep fascia, the nerve being towards the inner side above, but to its outer side, in the greater part of its course. Its course too is indicated by a line drawn from the centre of the popliteal space to a point midway between the inner malleolus and the tendo Achillis. In order to tie the artery, the leg must be partially flexed upon the 'pf thigh and made to rest upon a pillow on its outer side, the heel being raised to relax the muscles. An incision about four inches in length should then be made about half an inch from the edge of the tibia and parallel with it, through the integument, down to the deep fascia, avoiding, if possible, any large superficial veins. The deep fascia can then be divided and the muscles exposed. The lower border of the tibial origin of the soleus muscle should then be looked for, and beneath it a director introduced; the tibial origin of this muscle should then be divided the whole extent of the wound. The glistening tendinous covering of the deep surface of the muscle is an excellent guide to the vessel, and should not be mistaken for the deep fascia which lies deeper, and beneath which is found the vessel. To search for the artery, the leg must be well flexed, the heel drawn up, and the muscles retracted. The ligature can then be passed in the most convenient way. On the dead subject this operation is not diflicult, and on the Fig. 158. Ligature of posterior tibial artery liehind inner malleolus, living, more particularly when performed with the aid of Esmarch’s bandage, it can hardly be so “difficult, tedious, bloody, and dan- gerous” as Mr. Guthrie has described, and as is his own operation.