19 ABSCESS. recognised by surgeons; and the absorption of pus is constantly seen in the eye in hypopyon as well as in the disappearance of periosteal enlargements, and chronic subcutaneous abscesses. Pus varies much in its character; when thick and creamy, it is known Varieties of as healthy or laudable pus; when thin and water}', and containing P“®- ill-formed pus-cells, it is called “ puriform fluid,” this condition being generally indicative of want of power; when it is blood-stained it is called “ saniouswhen thin and acrid “ ichorousand when it contains flakes of curdy lymph “ curdy.” Pus from the interior of a bone is oily, containing, as Bransby Cooper showed, granular phosphate of lime. Sir D. Gibb has collected sufficient evidence to prove that the presence of cyanurate of iron may give to pus a bluish tint, while that from the brain is often green, from the liver brown; the debris of broken-down tissue in different proportions and of different kinds giving these appearances. The walls of an abscess are due to the organisation of the inflam- Walls of an matory products, whereby nature checks the extension of the disease, “hsccss. and forms what surgeons of old called the “ pyogenic ” membrane; around* the walls the parts are always cedematous from serous effusion, as indicated by pitting on pressure. An acute abscess comes on with fever and severe constitutional dis- On acute turbance, accompanied by the usual local phenomena of inflammation, abscess, such as pain, redness, heat, and swelling. As the abscess forms, the local Local signs, symptoms become intensified, and perhaps concentrated; the pain also alters in character, becoming at first dull and heavy, and then throb- bing ; the fever symptoms also subside, or rather intermit, a shivering lit or rigor more or less well marked, followed by heat, and possibly sweating, taking its place. The swelling, moreover, wdiich was previously diffused becomes more localised; the parts covering it begin to thin, and with the fingers of one hand steadily kept flat upon the sw'elling, and those of the other made to press upon it in another port, the walls of the abscess will be made to bulge against the fixed fingers, and a sense of “fluctuation” be given—this feeling of fluctuation indicates the Fluctuation, presence of fluid, and in this particular case of pus. Under these circum- stances the “ pointing” of the abscess will soon take place, and if the case be left to nature, tbe thinning of the part covering in the abscess will continue iu the direction of least resistance; the skin when involved will either slough, or ulcerate, aud the abscess burst, discharging its con- tents. The pus having now been evacuated, the walls of the abscess by their natural elasticity will fall together or collapse, the external wound close, aud the whole heal or contract into a sinus or narrow canal, some- times called fistula. When, however, the pus is deep-seated, bound Burrowing down by fascia or periosteum, what is called “ burrowinff ” takes place ; abscess, the matter makes its way between the soft parts, where the least resist- ance is met with, and opens either into a mucous passage, serous cavity, or joint. Abscesses beneath the periosteum constantly open into joints; those beneath the abdominal muscles or wdthin the abdomen, into the intestinal canal; and others in the extremities Examples of may burrow beneath the muscles, and make their w'ay to the surface a burrowiug long way from the original seat of the disease. In disease of the dorsal vertebra) an abscess may burrow beneath the abdominal fascia, and ex- tend behind the sheath of the psoas muscle, Poupart’s ligament, aud deep lascia of the thigh, and open on the inside or outside of the thigh; whilst