387 AFFECTIONS OP THE EXTERNAL EAR. 9 them. At the same moment the right hand forcibly expels the air i< from the bag in such a way that, finding no passage open except the It Eustachian tubes, it [| rushes up them, passes K into the tympanic 1 cavity, and pushes J out the membrana u tympani. It is this 1 sudden rush of air I against the external I wall of the cavity i which the surgeon I, listens for by means of a tube of India ( rubber, passing from I the meatus of the i; patient to that of • the surgeon. In cases of absence of the i meatus a stethoscope ( may be used, by which the surgeon determines at which point the air impinges most forcibly, and at this point he makes his opening. I If hard and bony at this spot, the trephine will be necessary, if soft, ' the knife will suffice, making a crucial opening and keeping the openipg patent by means of tents or other foreign bodies. In congenital cases the opening ought to be made very carefully, watching for the I membrana tympani; but should there be no membrane found on cutting down to the usual position of such it is advisable to allow the artificial opening to close again. If the deafness before operating . is very great it is probably better to discountenance any operation, as the results of interference with congenital malformations of the ear have generally been by no means satisfactory. '! Cutaneous affections of the external ear.—Hypertrophy from chronic : inflammation, eczema (acute and chronic), herpes, impetigo, pemphigus, ■ erysipelas, affect the auricle, and have much the same appearances, ' follow the same courses, and are amenable to the same treatment as ' in other parts of the body. Particular attention ought to to be paid to any skin affection which may be present in Fig. 109. the neighbourhood of the auricle, especially in the hair, careful note being paid to the sort of pomade or other application the patient uses for cosmetic purposes. The meatus auditorius externus ought to be cleared once daily by a lukewarm water in-jectiou of any collection of epidermis or cerumen which is apt to be of a greater quantity than normal during the progress of the skin affection. Injuries to the external ear. Injuries to the external ear are by no means rare, but, happily, if confined to the auricle, they affect the hearing of the sufferer but slightly. Under the usual treatment they generally do well, care being had to make as perfect anadjustment of the parts aspossible. In 1866 Mr. Bryant Lrawmg treated a girl of twelve years of age for the effects of an Fig. 108. Politzer’s method of inflating the middle ear. Cutaneous affections. Treatment. Injuries.