348 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. Lachrymal gland. Cysts. Treatment. I Tear puncta I and cana- liculi. ! Lachrymal sac. Inflamma- tion. Abscess. Treatment. lid well above the upper border of the pupil. Then with scissors a strip of skin of the required width should be removed, along the whole extent of the lid, parallel to its margin ; the orbicularis muscle should then be clearly dissected off the tarsal cartilage to about the same extent, the wound closed by one or two fine sutures, and the eye bound up with wet lint and a bandage. The wound will heal in the course of a few days, and the shortening caused by the removal of the skin and muscle, and subsequent cica- trization (possibly aided by the entanglement of some fibres of the occipito-frontalis in the scar) should keep the lid in the desired position. In cases of congenital ptosis we often find movement of the eyes upwards greatly impaired; it seems probable that the superior rectus is badly developed or altogether absent. THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The lachrymal gland is occasionally the seat of malignant or other growths, and may require extirpation. A cyst is sometimes met with caused by obstruction of one of the ducts of the gland .and accumulation of secretion. The disease is known as dacryops. Its treatment consists in establishing an opening into it from the surface of the conjunctiva j this is easily done by passing a curved needle armed with silk from beneath the upper lid through the wall of the cyst into its cavity, and out again at a convenient distance; the silk should then be drawn through, and the portion of cyst-wall in- cluded between the entrance and exit of the needle firmly ligatured; the ligature will slough out and leave a permanent opening, causing no inconvenience. If the cyst be opened through the skin it may leave a tronblesome fistula. The tear puncta and canaliculi. The tear puncta in the normal condition lie in^contact with the ocular conjunctiva; they may be either everted, as seen in old and neglected cases of tinea, or rolled somewhat inwards; they are some- times found entirely obliterated, either by disease or injury, burns of the eyelids being the most common cause. The canaliculi may also be found more or less obstructed in any part of their course. Any of these conditions are accompanied by trouble- some watering of the eye, “ epiphora.” They can be remedied by slitting the tear puncta and canaliculi. The lachrymal sac is often the seat of acute inflammation, which may arise in the sac itself, spread to it from the conjunctiva, or be caused by disease of the surrounding bones. It is characterised by a dusky red, tense swelling, situated at the side of the nose, close to the inner canthus, the swelling and redness often extending outwards along both the upper and lower lids; one or both sacs may be affected. The inflammation may end in resolution or go on to the formation of an abscess; in the latter case, the swelling becomes soft and fluctuating. , Treatment.—At first, hot fomentations and poultices must be applied, aud attention paid to the general health; if abscess form, the pus must be let out by a free incision. If an abscess of the lachrymal sac