249 DELIE.ITJM TREMENS. and is a frequent cause of speedy death even when the excitement has subsided. Treatment.— This disease essentially being one of depression of Treatment, the nervous system associated with sleeplessness, the main object of the surgeon is to induce sleep, to calm the excited brain, and to give it time to recover its normal functions; and with this end, absolute quiet and the use of bland and nutritious food are most essential. Easily digested, nutritious food must be administered when it Food, can be taken by the mouth, but when refused or rejected, resort must be had to enemata. Milk is, undoubtedly, the most suit- able form of nourishment, either alone or mixed with eggs, hut it does not suit all stomachs. The question of giving stimulants, and to Stimulants, what extent, is one of great importance. As a rule, the less given, the better, but in some cases it is advisable to give them, and that form of alcohol to which the patient has been accustomed is the best. Young men with an acute attack may do well without any, but in other cases, the feeble powers of the patient require some such aid to stand against the exhaustion caused by the restlessness and excitement. The chief reliance, however, should be placed on other forms of food, such as strong animal broths. Darby’s fluid meat, or similar preparations. Opium, in one of its forms, is a drug still in favour, although Opiates, some reject its use altogether, and trust to feeding and time; relying upon the knowledge, that the disease has a natural tendency to termi- nate in sleep after the second or third day. In an ordinary case of the disease, one grain may be given as a dose, or nxx of the tincture, repeated every three or four hours or oftener, till sleep is procured. In other cases two or three grains may be given at once, and followed by grain or half-grain doses. The best method of administering drugs in this disease, however, is by subcutaneous injection, and I recommend the injection of morphia in solution in doses of a quarter or half a grain in preference to any other plan; because the condition of the stomach of patients suffering from the disease is far from satisfactory either for absorption or assimilation, and, by the hypodermic method of introducing the narcotic into the system, its absorption is more certain and rapid. In some cases the beneficial influence of morphia thus employed is very remarkable, and only in exceptional instances the treatment fails. The use of chloroform has also been urged, though such a plan is not devoid of danger and can hardly be advised except for some temporary purpose, such as to dress a wound, or to enable an enema to be given. The hydrate of chloral is a drug of great value as possessing hypnotic Chloral, qualities without the evils attendant on other drugs of this class. It may be given in doses of 20 to 40 grains, and repeated, at moderate intervals, till sleep is procured. Drs. Kinnear and Lawson in the Melville Hospital have treated from 70 to SO cases successfully with large doses of cayenne pepper, from 20 to 80 grains having been given as a dose. Dr. Maclean, of Netley, trusts to quiet and the use, at short intervals, of strong beef tea highly charged with cayenne pepper. Of late years the value of digitalis has been greatly extolled. Digitalis, hut my experience of it has not been favorable. It is given in