90 SYPHILIS. Disease of testis. Exceptional cases. Explanation of such cases. Affections of the teeth. testicles is also to be met with. I have seen several cases of this nature, and the most marked was in a hoy, the third child of syphilitic parents, four months old, who had snuffles and mucous patches on the lips. Each of the testicles was an inch and a half long and very hard. The disease was cured hy mercurial treatment. There is reason to believe, moreover, that in hereditary, as in ac- quired syphilis, every organ of the body, in different cases, may be found diseased, the viscera of the cranium, thorax, and abdomen, with the glands generally, as well as the skin, mucous membrane,;muscles, nerves, and bones. How far the syphilitic poison follows the subjects who inherit it is difficult to decide. It is no uncommon event to find a child, entirely free from all evidence of constitutional syphilis, born of parents who had previously given and may subsequently give birth to stillborn or diseased offspring. A healthy child may stand alone in a long series of conceptions as a living proof of the power of life even over such a poison as syphilis. I have also before me the notes of an instance of twins born of syphilitic parents; one passed through all the series of complaints com- mon to hereditary syphilis, while the other escaped altogether, that is, at the end of a year and a half no symptoms had appeared. I have the notes of another case of twins, born under like circum- stances, in which the symptoms appeared in one at the end of a month, and in the other in the fourth month. Such cases as these would appear to show that the manifestation or non-manifestation of the symptoms of hereditary syphilis depends much upon the personal power of the child who inherits it, a strong child throwing off or eliminating the poison, while the weak falls under its influence; since in the case of the twins above mentioned there can be no question as to the similarity of the conditions under which they were placed. In hereditary syphilis this conclusion is founded upon strong evidence, and in the acquired it is at least probable. Amongst the evidences of hereditary syphilis established by Mr. Hutchinson there are often present in the permanent teeth important indications, so important, indeed, that, when present, the existence of Eig. 14. Eig. 15. Syphilitic Teeth. Healthy Teeth. hereditary syphilis may with some confidence be pronounced. however, exist only in exceptional instances of hereditary syphilis. “ The central wpfer incisors of the second set are the test teethe these are usually short and narrow, with a broad vertical notch in the