516 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC. Phlegmonous iiithimiiia- tion. Cancrum ui'is. Treatment. 1 Phlegmonous or carhuncular inflammation of the lip is an alarming affection; it is never found except in the feeble and cachectic. It attacks the upper as well as the lower lip, and shows itself as a general infiltration of the part, which becomes enormously swollen, tense, and painful. When seen in an early stage a free incision into it or its mucous surface gives relief and expedites the sloughing of the cellular tissue that is sure to follow. Fomentations and warm-water dressings are the most beneficial, with good living and tonics, such as quinine, and iron in full doses. At times this affection ends in sloughing, and then puts on the appearance of what is called cancrum oris. It is very prone to be followed by septicsemia. Cancrum oris, or gangrenous stomatitis, is generally met with in the ill-fed and feeble child after one of the exanthemata. It is seen also where mercury has been given to salivation. It commences often as a phlegmonous inflammation of the cellular tissue of the cheek or lip, going on rapidly to sloughing and phagedsenic ulceration, or, to sudden death of a part of the cheek, the tissue becoming white and bloodless, and then sloughing. At times, this sloughing process will involve a large portion of the Fig. 190. Cancrum oris. Model 265, Guy’s Hosp. Museum. cheek, and even of the gum or bone. It is a most fatal and dangerous disease. Before the sloughing has taken place, the part involved will be much thickened and indurated. It will feel of a brawny hardness, and appear of a dusky colour in the centre, with a red border. When the skin covering in the dead cellular tissue has sloughed away, a deep, excavated, irregular surface will be seen discharging an offen- sive sanious fluid, and, if the disease spreads, it does so by sloughing and ulceration (Fig. 190). It generally kills by exhaustion, sometimes by bleeding from the sloughing of an &rt6ry ♦ Teeatmknt.—The general treatment is, tonics and good feeding, milk, eggs, and wine, beef tea, and any other nutritious food being of primary importance. When food cannot be taken by the mouth it must be given by the bowel as enemata. Tonics also must be administered, as the liquor cinchonse, quinine, or iron, in such doses as the child can bear. r j. a- Locally, till the slough has separated, little more than fomentations and cleanliness can be employed j but when the sloughing and ulcera- tion spreads the application of strong nitric acid is of great value. It must, however, be liberally brushed over and into the parts so as to destroy all their surface and induce a fresh action. Absolute cleanliness should be observed, the wound being washed and irrigated by means of a steady stream of water to which carbolic acid 1 part to 20, Condy’s fluid, chloride of zinc, or nitric acid in the proportion of mv to the ounce of water may be added. tak?s place, it is frequently with the loss of arge portions of the parts, for which some plastic operation will subsequently be required.