INJURIES TO THE ABDOMEN. 608 Symptoms when viscera injured. Collateral evidence important. Treatment. Rest. Opium. Low diet. Local treatment. Sutures. General remarks. be formed; but when no such guide cau be found, the surgeon has to rest upon other evidence, such as surmise and probabilities. As a rule, where want of evidence is felt, it is well to treat the case as serious. All penetrating wounds are serious, whether incised, lacerated, punctured, or guushot, but punctured wounds are by far the most common. When the viscera are uninjured, there will be a total absence of all other symptoms beyond the parietal wound, and these negative sym- ptoms afford the hest positiveeoidence of the simplenatureof theaccident. When the viscera are injured, there will generally be more or less last- ing syncope, or collapse; there will probably be severe local pain, soon becoming radiating j there wiU also frequently be vomiting, possibly of blood, or the passing of blood from the bowel or bladder. If life is prolonged there will be peritonitis. When the bowel or omentum pro- trudes, when the fseces, bile, urine or blood appear at the wound, the evidence is clear. The surgeon, however, will find much help from collateral evidence in forming an opinion; as, the size of the woimd compared with the instrument that inflicted it; the position of the blood stain on the instrument; the force with which the blow was struck; the direction of the force in relation to the position of the patient; and the thickness of the abdominal parietes. By all these means an approximate opinion may be formed, but in no case can a positive diagnosis be made with certainty. Under aU circumstances, however, the treatment must be the same. Rest.—Absolute rest being an essential point, no movement should be allowed, not even for passing the evacuations. Opium in moderate or fuU doses, according to circumstances, is also demanded, it being well to keep a patient under its influence for several days, by giving one grain every four or six hours. Low diet, that is, milk diet, should be allowed, all food being given cold and in small quantities; ice to suck is refreshing. Purgatives should on no account be given tiU the nature of the case is declared. With respect to local treatment, the greatest simplicity should be employed. The wound should be cleansed, and all bleeding vessels secured, but anythuig like an exploration of the woimd is to be condemned. All probing, fingering, or manipulating the wound should be avoided as dangerous and only pertaining to sur- gical curiosity. The abdominal muscles should always be relaxed by position, and the edges of the wound, when it is large, brought together by sutures. Water dressings should then be applied. Punctured wounds when perforating, like others, should be left open. Even after the lapse of some days, when no symptoms of wounded viscera appear, the same caution should be observed, two or three weeks being always allowed before freedom is given. Under all circumstances the condition of the bladder should be inquired into. Penetrating Wounds, with protruding Viscera. It is hardly necessary to remark that the special risk of any of these cases is determined greatly by the viscus that is involved, and the amount of injury it has sustained. Thus, a penetrating abdominal wound with protruding omentum is far less dangerous than when hernia of the intestine exists, and a protruding womide'd bowel is of graver importance than an uninjured one. It is consequently necessary for