225 ENCEPHALITIS. . The acute cases, for the most part, are the result of a severe general Acute, result shaking of the brain, with or without fracture, complicated with con- tusion or laceration of the brain-structure or its membranes. They braim ^ ° are consequently cases of arachnitis and inflammation of the brain-sub- stance itself, the inflammation of the membranes being general. “ I have never known,” says Wilks, “ such an affection as arachnitis spring up as a spontaneous disease, and therefore when met with you should always look for some mischief without. When arising in this way, the interarachnoid effusion is often purulent, and so copious that it may pour out when the dura mater is removed. I have never seen extensive effusion into the interarachnoid space without an injury on the head.” The chronic cases are, for the most part, the result of a local injury and Chronic, begin in the bone, spreading inwards to the dura mater, and at last in- volving the arachnoid cavity with its two layers of serous membrane, the pia mater, and even the brain itself; local suppuration being fre- Suppuration quently found in these cases, either between the bone and dura mater, iu orain by or in the brain itself, from extension of inflammatory action from without inwards : the whole process in the majority of instances being a local one. The same changes may take place in all cases of chronic ostitis of the calvarium, whether from accident or disease. The acute or diffused form of arachnitis is the cause of death in most Common of the cases of head injury that survive the immediate results of the accident. It comes on in the stage of reaction, indeed, it may be looked upon as reaction in excess, febrile symptoms, convulsions or convulsive twitchings, delirium or mania more or less acute, terminating Reaction in rapidly in paralysis, coma, and death, being the general sequence of excess, symptoms. Effusion of serum takes place into the ventricles and upon the brain, causing at times compression j or effusion of pus or puri- form lymph occurs either upon the brain itself, or in the meshes of the pia mater, or into the cavity of the arachnoid. Whenever the brain has been severely shaken and consequently Seat of bruised or lacerated, inflammation may appear at the injured spots; origin of hence it at times shows itself beneath the seat of the blow, but more fre- inflammation, quently begins on the opposite side of the brain to the seat of injury, where the brain has been bruised or lacerated by contre-coup; from these centres inflammation may spread either to the membranes from the cor- tical structure of the brain, or to the substance of the brain itself; thus, in all cases of a general shaking of the brain, the seat of inflammation is in most cases at the base. The pia mater and cortical substance of the brain are commonly the seats of inflammation, but the cavity of the arachnoid is likewise involved in many cases secondarily by extension of the morbid action. There are no symptoms by which the precise No seat of inflammation in the brain or its membranes can be made indications out; they are alike in all cases. filfl^mation It will thus be seen that the two classes of cases of acute and chronic encephalitis are distinct in a measure. The acute is the result of a brmsing of the brain by a severe shaking or concussion, the bruising being, as a rule, at the base of the brain by contre-coup. The inflam- mation begins in the pia mater, spreads outwards, and is for the most part diffused and not local. Consequently it is beyond the reach of surgical operation. The chronic is generally the result of a local contusion or fracture of the bone, and local in its action. It involves the dura mater by VOL. I. 15