ON SKIN GRAFTINO. 165 ulcer healed as rapidly where the black skin was grafted, as where the white was placed. The engrafted pieces of new skin thus grow themselves by cell development, they stimulate the skin-forming powers of the margin of the sore, and exert at the same time a like action on the granulations around. The same result may likewise ensue when large pieces of skin. Pieces may be whether removed from the patient or from some recently amputated transplanted limb, are transplanted. The dressers at Guy’s have frequently engrafted amputated large pieces of skin, half an inch square, removed from amputated limbs, limbs; the pieces on removal have been dropped into warm water in their passage to the wards where they are applied. But there seems to be no advantage in this practice, and in the cases in which it has been adopted a large proportion have failed. In a case of mine the grafts took root and excited a healthy action in the margin of the sore; they, however, grew but little, and remained on the cicatrix of the sore, as bosses of skin with w'ell-marked borders. They were grafted, it is true, but the grafts seemed to have no power of assimilating them- selves to the tissues on which they were placed {vide Model Guy’s Mus.). To take large pieces of skin from the patient’s own body is an ob- Not required jectionable practice on account of the large wound it creates, and, moreover, is unnecessary in the majority of cases, as small pieces appear gjqu** ° to do better. To take them from another subject is also objectionable for like reasons; but still more so, on account of the difficulty that sometimes accrues from a want of power in the new graft to assimilate itself to the tissues on which it is placed, and from the risk that is Risk in necessarily run of introducing into the blood of the living subject transplanting some new or poisonous element; a risk which I believe it to be wrong other™'** aud unjustifiable to run, and that I would not allow on my owu person, subjects. For these reasons I have forbidden my dressers adopting the practice. Ill the case where black skin tvas transplanted, I did it with the full concurrence of both patients; indeed, both were rather disappointed that the operation could not be repeated. They were firm friends, and the liuk I formed bound them closer ! There seems, however, no objection to mincing the portion of in- May cut the tegument which is to be employed into minute fragments, that is, piece into into pieces the size of millet-seeds; the thumb-nail of the surgeon fragments, being the best table for the purpose. In children, where it is unad- visable to remove much healthy skin, and the surface to be covered is large, the plan is excellent, though I prefer pieces the size of half a hemp-seed, when they can be obtained. The practice of applying “ skin-dust,” or the products obtained by scraping the skin, cannot be recommended as it is rarely successful. Whether this newly engrafted skiu possesses the same power of Properties of resisting disintegrating changes as the old skin is not yet proved, ‘lie uewlv Some observations I have made lead me to suspect, that it is in some cases rather liable to break down aud ulcerate as soon as the patient begins to walk after the sore has completely healed, whilst in others I have found a sore in this way healed is more capable of resisting disinte- grating changes than another healed by unassisted natural processes. At any rate, it is necessary to observe as much care in the after-treat- ment of the case as ought always to be observed after the cure of any other sore; and more particularly to afford moderate support aud pro-