29 INDOLENT SORES. the granulations have little power of cicatrising, they are disposed, The weak moreover, to slough on the slightest cause. These require local stimu- lants, such as the nitrate of silver in stick, sulphate of zinc or copper lotion, carbolic acid lotion in the proportion of two grains to the ounce, or terebene alone or diluted with one or two parts of olive oil. Dusting the surface with powdered alum or tannin is also sometimes beneficial. The limb should be carefully elevated or bandaged, and the general health attended to. -n • a i , When there is still less power in the sore no granulations form, the indolent surface puts on the appearance of a pieee of mucous membrane, such as that of the pharynx, the sore being then called indolent. At times a few weak granulations are found at one corner of its surface, but the greater part has a smooth and glassy aspect, with a thin and watery, but not purulent secretion. Where the sore has existed long the edges will appear raised and indolent, covered with a layer of epithelium, and very senseless. It then acquires the term “callous"— a callous sore being an indolent one of long standing. This indolent sore is always ready to take on a sloughing action on any slight cause, such as some general derangement of the health, or the long assumption of the dependent position of the limb. It is common, indeed, to find the surface of the indolent sore sloughing; not, however, from infiam- May become matory action, hut from extreme indolence in the granulating force. ® °“Sliuig. Under these circumstances the surface of the sore becomes covered with a greenish secretion often fetid, the granulations forming par- tially, and ultimately dying. When the sore is large, this appearance is very commonly towards its centre, or lowest part; and as repair goes on, the sore may cicatrise at its edges, where the granulations derive the full benefit of the vascular and nerve supply, while the centre of the sore still sloughs. In old people the margin of the sore may slough in one part and heal in another. Authors have described this indolent sore in the old as senile ulcer. These sores are Senile ulcer, very common and are usually found in the lower extremities, often, too, associated with varicose veins; this condition of veins has, however, little to do with their origin, although it tends much to retard their recovery. These have been described by old authors as varicose ulcers, simply from the fact of the two conditions being often found together. Such are almost always found in weak subjects, with a feeble circulation. The treatment of these indolent sores consists in encouraging the Treatment of venous circulation of the part by position if possible, and by pressure ■“‘•“lent where rest cannot be secured; by local stimulants, and by general tonic treatment. When there is little or no action in the sore, the application of one or more blisters to the surface is very beneficial; or blistering liquid may be painted over its edges. When the surface is sloughing, half an ounce of carbolic acid or of terebene to a pint of olive oil with or without the e.\tract of opium, aecordiug to the amount of pain, is an excellent application. Where the edges of the sore are indurated and callous, so that cicatrisation and contraction are almost impossible, the free scarification of the margin every half inch is often followed by a rapid change for the better; or two free incisions may be made on either side of the margin of the sore for the same purpose. During this treatment, if the venous circulation is assisted by raising the leg higher than the hip, the utmost good may be obtained. When rest cannot be observed the limb may be strapped up from the toes to the