441 ANEUKISBT. through the brain he interfered with, giddiness and loss of conscious- Pressure on ness may be present, and, where any pressure is made upon the recur- c. rent laryngeal nerve, a peculiar and characteristic hoarseness will he produced. This hoarseness is sometimes associated with loss of voice and laryngeal spasms simulating laryngeal disease. In the case of a woman, set. 22, under my care, in whom an aneurism existed involving the aorta below the opening of the left subclavian and pressing upon the left bronchus and trachea, this symptom was so severe as to call for tracheotomy. When the cervical sympathetic ganglia are pressed upon, the pupil of the affected side may be permanently contracted, and nerve pains will be present according to the amount of pressure applied. When an aneurism has partially consolidated, and has either so en- Difficulties larged, or become so diffused as to press upon the soft parts so as no longer to exhibit any pulsation ; when it feels firm, with possibly a soft point here and there, some difficulty may be felt in forming a diagnosis, and the surgeon, under these circumstances, will have to depend as much upon the history of the case as upon the physical symptoms. When external signs of inflammation or suppuration are present, the difficulty will be enhanced, for it must be recorded, that aneurisms under these circumstances have been opened for abscesses. I re- Mistaken for member a popliteal aneurism having been so maltreated with a fatal result. Such mistakes of diagnosis, however, ought not to occur, as they are due to carelessness. The diagnosis of an aneurism may generally be made by attending to the history of the case and to the existing symptoms. An abscess in contact with an artery may receive Abscess over pulsation from it, as may any cyst or even solid tumour, but in all these the pulsation will cease on the application of pressure to the artery above the tumour, without any change whatever taking place in the tumour itself. I have seen a case of lumbar abscess which pulsated freely from aortic contact. It is also rare for such tumours to cause a bruit. Occasionally cases are on record in which an artery in contact with an Abscess abscess or suppurating hydatid cyst was opened by ulceration, and gave ulcerating rise to the idea of an aneurism. Pulsatile tumours of bone may also be mistaken for aneurism; but the fact that they are in bone and more Palsatile or less ossific, that the bone is expanded, although perhaps irregularly, bo'ne*^'^” and that a bruit rarely exists, ought to prevent error. It must be admitted, notwithstanding, that men of the greatest skill and expe- rience have mistaken such cases for aneurism. Treatment. There is probably no disease a surgeon has to treat requiring Treatment of to be dealt with more on scientific principles than aneurism, as aneurism, all treatment to be effective must be based upon the physiological processes of a natural cure, and he will be successful in proportion Natural as he is able to use these processes and to turn them to account. It process of has been already explained, that spontaneous cure of an aneurism is ®'*re. commonly caused by the coagulation of the blood in the sac; and, as a consequence, it ought to be an aim to encourage this result in every way, which is to be sought by general as well as by local means. To induce coagulation of blood in the sac by natural processes, it is neces- Induce sary to have a feeble circulation through it; for this purpose, rest in the recumbent position is an essential point of practice, and it ought