TJLCERATION OF THE ANUS AND EECTUM. 718 Treatment. Cleanliness, the application of nitrate of silver, and the dusting of their surfaces with calomel or oxide of zinc, generally produce a rapid cure. Vegetations due to the irritation of acrid discharges, such as gonorrhoea or sgphilis, require to be excised. Fio. 296. Fro. 296.—Vertical section of polypus through the line a, fig. 295, showing vascular simple and compound villi, covered with a columnar epithelium ; large vessels in the base on which the villi rest; and sections of the follicles of Lie. berkiihu. This section represents half the thickness of a lobule of the polypus seen by IJ-inch power. Dr. Moxon’s Keport on Villous Growth, with drawings. Warty growths. Pnu-itus ani. Warty gptowths are also met with about the anus as on other cutaneous surfaces. Sometimes they grow to a great extent and then require excision I have removed a mass the size of a fist. Pruritus ani should generally be looked upon as a symptom of some rectal or intestinal irritation, constipation, or rectal disease. It is always a source of great distress, the most distressing being those in which the symptoms occur at night in bed preventing sleep. The best application I know for its relief is a cold sponge, and, having dried the parts, the unguentum metallorum made of equal parts of zinc, nitrate of mercury, and subacetate of lead ointments. Some recommend a lotion of the nitrate of silver, ten to fifteen grains to the ounce. Zinc and opium ointment is also beneficial. The applica- tion of cold through the rectum plug may also be recommended. These remedies, however, only relieve the symptom j in order to cure it the cause must be found out and removed. Ulceration of rectum. Symptoms of ulcer of rectum. Ulceration of the Eectum and Stricture. The painful ulcer of the anus or anal orifice of the rectum has been already noticed, and it remains for us to consider briefly such other forms of ulceration of the rectum as are met with in practice. They may be described as simple, syphilitic, and cancerous. Simple ulcera- tion is by no means unfrequent, and when not involving the anus, it gives rise to symptoms which are usually looked upon as dysenteric. The passage of lumpy fseces with blood and muco-pnruleut discharge are the chief symptoms. The rapid passage of the intestinal contents