Eetention to be relieved. Washing out of bladder. Treatment. Avoid bed- sores. Question of tiepbining. Example. 274 FRACTTJEES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. seen several cases in which marked relief was afforded by this course, and the records of surgery contain many more. Practised with discretion, extension of the spine is doubtless a valuable means of treatment. When the patient is placed on his hack, the parts have a natural disposition to fall into place; this position, therefore, must be main- tained. The bed should be firm, yet elastic; and a water bed is the best, when it can be obtained; otherwise, a spring mattress or one of horsehair should he employed. It should be well protected by water-proof cloth, &c., from all contact with urine or faeces. The condition of the bladder should be attended to from the very first, Eeteution is certain to be present for a time, and, over-distension is most injurious. The utmost care ought to be employed in drawing off the water. A moderate-sized elastic or the French vulcanite catheter should be used, and the operation repeated twice a day, night and morning. If the urine becomes offensive, the bladder must be washed out; hut no syringe should be used. A stream of water ought to be allowed to run in and out of the bladder through an elastic tube attached to the irrigator and fitted to the top of the catheter, no force being applied. {Vide Fig. 321.) The application of leeches to the spine, or cupping, is seldom called for. The condition of the bowels must be attended to, and enemata are to he preferred rather than purgatives. The greatest care is needed to keep the patient clean, particularly when incontinence exists. There are no special medicines applicable to these cases. The general health of the patient should be maintained by tonics and simple nutritious food; and sedatives should be given to procure rest and relieve pain. The condition of the back must be daily watched to prevent bed- sores. This is best secured by removing pressure as far as possible, or in relieving it by means of soft cushions and pads, the water cushion being the best, and also by keeping the parts dry. The application of a soft felt plaster over the sacrum and hips is sometimes beneficial, so also is the frequent application to the parts of some spirit lotion. Should it be necessary to turn the patient on one or other side, the attendants ought to be taught to rotate the hips and shoulders at the same time. By great care and attention, life may be prolonged, and even recovery may occur. The subject of trephining the spine requires brief consideration. Cline was the first to put it into practice, and, on his great autho- rity, the operation has been repeated, but with no success. The great argument, however, against the operation is derived from the fact, that in few post-mortem examinations has the condition of parts indicated that the slightest good could have been derived from its performance. The danger of a fractured or dislocated spine lies in the injury to the cord, the result of a stretching or crushing of its substance. When the cord is much injured by the accident, the mischief has been done, and no removal of the displaced bone can undo it or neutralise its evil. If the cord is uninjured no operation is called for. One successful instance of trephining is recorded by Dr. Gordon, of Dublin, and, in rare and exceptional cases, it is possible the operation may be justifiable. To perform it because it may by chance do good