103 TTJMOTTRS. they are described as “hydroceles of thenecTc." Some of these are con- genital, hut the majority occur later in life. They appear as single or multilocular cysts, made up of thin membranous walls, lined with pavement epithelium. Like a serous membrane they contain a limpid, 1 watery, or tenacious highly albuminous fluid, more or less stained with blood, occasionally holding cholesterine in suspension. These cysts are found in the neck, anywhere between the lower jaw and clavicle, I beneath which they at times pass (Fig. 16) ; they are usually deeply Diagnosis. I seated, and occasionally superflcial; they give annoyance only from their size, and are painles.s; when inflamed, they may suppur.ate. They are recognisable by their globular cystic form, soft fluctuating feel, and i painless increase. ' These cysts are not to be confounded with those of the thyroid Not to be f gland, which are far more common, and at times attain a large size, l- growing as quietly and painlessly as do the cervical. Usually, cysts. ^ « however, they have thicker walls, are more tense, and are commonly f multiple; moreover, they move up and down with the gland on deglu- I tition. Their contents are more viscid and frequently mixed with blood in variable proportions; indeed, some of these thyroid cysts are Mood cysts, which when tapped would go on bleeding if allowed, even to the death of the patient. I have recorded such a case (‘ Guy’s Reports,’ 1864). It is probable, as Sir J. Paget has suggested, that many of the cervical cysts are thyroid in their origin, springing from some outlying portion of the gland. Cysts are also found over the thyroid cartilage, but these mostly contain grumous blood, and rarely grow larger than half a walnut. In a case under my own observation, a cyst completely covered the thyroid cartilage, and was lost on either side in the deep tissues of the neck. It existed in an adult man as a soft fluctuating swelling, and had been gi'owiug for some years as a painless formation. Cysts which are possibly bursal, are likewise found in connection with the hyoid bone. Treatment.—Cervical cysts had better be left alone, unless from Treatment of their size they require surgical treatment, because there is always danger in dealing with any deeply seated cyst in this region from the liability of subsequent diffused inflammation of the cellular tissues of the neck. I lost a patient, some years ago, from this cause, after simply tapping the cyst. When surgical treatment is called for, palliative means had better be Palliatire. primarily adopted. This treatment consists in merely drawing off the contents of the cyst by means of a trocar and canula, or the “ aspi- rator.” Should the fluid re-collect rapidly the operation may be repeated. In performing this operation the surgeon must guard against puncturing any of the superficial veins or deep vessels, and should recall their position before puncturing. Should these measures fail even after several repetitions, the Tapping, best practice is to introduce into the cavity of the cyst a drainage tube made of perforated india-rubber. When the tapping has induced some suppurative action the opening may be enlarged and the tube inserted, but when the cyst is large it is well to pass the tube completely through it. This may readily be done by means of a long trocar and canula, such as that employed for puncturing the bladder per rectum, the pilot trocar being intro-