285 SPINAL ABSCESSES. The patient should be laid down in the recumbent position upon a mattress before the plaster is quite set, the dinner pad removed, and the casing slightly flattened in front of the anterior superior spinous processes of the ilium, to guard against pressure. The merino jacket may then be unfastened beneath the thighs and above the shoulders, and turned at both ends over the casing, the ends being fastened down by a few extra turns of the plaster bandage. In the course of a fortnight, if all things go on well and no evidence of undue pressure in any part exists, the casing may he split up along the front, its edges bound, eyelets introduced, and a lace inserted, in order that it may at times be removed for personal cleanliness and comfort, and reapplied. The jacket should be worn so long as it is easy, and when worn out another should be substituted. Where extra support is needed strips of tin three quarters of an When extra inch wide may be bound round the thorax, or applied vertically beneath support is the bandage; and when the cervical or upper dorsal region is diseased‘''-'‘1“'^® • a vertical splint, Sayre’s jury-mast apparatus (Fig. 88a), to take oft’ pressure of the head and prevent rotation, will be required. When this splint is used for lateral curvatures the patient should suspend himself by his arms. The dinner pad should be made of cotton wool, folded in a hand- Dinner pad. kerchief so as to form a wedge-shaped mass with thin edge downwards. In female patients, a pad should be placed over each hreast and re- moved with the dinner pad just before the plaster sets. Smaller pads may be placed over the anterior iliac spines, and all prominent spinous processes protected from pressure hy felt plaster. “ When the dis- Protection of ease is situated in the dorsal region the jacket should not be opened, projecting for the reason that if the respiratory movements of the chest are per- {’“jj'g ® mitted to go on without restraint, the heads of the ribs will necessarily move freely and the disease will be increased rather than diminished. But if the ribs be held still, and the diaphragm thus made to act more fully, the breathing, instead of being thoracic, is rendered diaphrag- matic and abdomiual, and all the short, grunting, catching respiration ceases.” In acute or progressive disease suspension is dangerous, and vertical extension is to be applied with the gi’eatest caution. Immobility of Caution, the spine is the essential object to secure. Spinal abscesses should not be opened hastily, inasmuch as they Treatment of may become absorbed and wither away. When steadily progressing, spinal however, they must be dealt with, and the best method is without douht to make a free opening under a piece of lint saturated with oil carbolised or not. I have, however, in some cases, made a free opening into the abscess without any such precautions, and with an equally good results—making it so free tha tuo pus could be retained, and, if air got in, it as freely got out again. Retained pus and air are sure to decompose, but if a free vent be made for both, harm rarely ensues. To allow abscesses to enlarge to any extent without interfering, is not good surgery, as the amount of constitutional disturbance that follows the opening of an abscess is closely proportioned to its size, and a large abscess cavity secretes more pus than a small one. It is true, that after the opening of a chronic abscess, a patient who may have been fairly well becomes feverish, and possibly exhausted hy hectic; but it should be remembered, that by delay, the abscess will become