321 THE CETSTALIilNE LENS. Injuries.—The sclerotic may be wounded by sharp instruments, or Wounds, ruptured by blows; in the latter case the lesion usually takes place in the ciliary region, near the upper margin of the cornea. The sclerotic (as also the cornea) may be pierced by a shot or chip of metal, which may be lodged within the globe or have passed clean through it. Teeatmbnt.—The treatment of injuries of the sclerotic depends Treatment, much upon the extent and nature of the damage done. Small incised wounds will usually heal readily enough if the eye be kept carefully bandaged. Larger wounds may require to be closed by a suture. Blows often cause complete disorganization of the globe, the aqueous and vitreous chambers being filled with blood, and haemorrhage having taken place between the sclerotic and choroid, although no rupture of the external tunic has occurred. Such cases must be carefully watched, and the eye kept bandaged with lint soaked in belladonna lotion. In cases of extensive incised wounds, large ruptures, or wounds associated with lodgment of a foreign body within the globe, extirpa- tion of the eyeball will probably have to be performed. (See p. 374.) THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. Congenital anomalies.—Variations in shape, absence of the whole Congenital (Aphakia) or part of the lens, and displacements, are met with as con- genital defects. Presbyopia (old sight).—Presbyopia depends on senile change of the Presbyopia, crystalline lens, by which it is rendered harder than in youth and its elasticity is impaired. As a consequence its curvature can only be altered to a limited extent by the action of the ciliarj’ muscle, and the power or range of accommodation is correspondingly dimi- nished. Persons generally begin to experience the effects of presbyopia about Age when it the age of forty-five. The nearest point of distinct vision, which year <^°“nncneea. by year has been receding from the eyes, now becomes inconveniently far off, so that small print can only be read with difficulty or not at all; distant vision, however, still remains acute. It has been arbitrarily decided that a person shall be considered presbyopic as soon as his ne.arest point of distinct vision comes to stand at twenty-two centimetres or further from the eyes, and the degree of Its degree, presbyopia is expressed by the number of dioptrics (D) which it is necessary to give the eye in order to bring its near point up to this dis- tance; or, in other words, to give it a refractive power equal to 4’5 D, which is the power of the lens which the crystalline must add to itself in order to see distinctly at twenty-two centimetres. Thus, a person aged forty-five can only see distinctly at twenty-eight centimetres, that is, he can only add to his crystalline a lens equal to 3'5 D. In order to enable him to see distinctlj' at twenty-two centimetres we must give a lens which makes up the diflerence between 3‘5 D and 4‘5 D, i.e. 1 D. A person of forty-five, therefore, requires a convex lens of 1 D to remedy his presbyopia ; the number of this lens also expresses the degree of presbyopia. It has been determined by observation that presbyopia increases by VOL. I. 21