698 SURGERY OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. Ruptured rectum in parturition, Laceration from act of defsecatiou. Treatment. urine; it being clear that the recto-vesical peritoneal pouch was lacer- ated. Some though not severe peritonitis followed j and fa;ces passed per anum as well as through the external wound. On the sixteenth day I consequently gave opium tolock up the bowels, with the view of making a splint as it were of the fteces, and to keep the rectum and intestinal wound quiet. Success followed the practice and the wound in the bowel closed. After four days, the bowels were opened after a dose of castor oil, and convalescence became established. In parturition, the rectum is sometimes laid open by a rupture, either alone or with the perinseum, and, when this occurs, the rent ought to be brought together at once, for if this practice be not adopted, a plastic operation subsequently will have to be performed. In the act of defcecation, small lacerations of the anus are not un- common, when the motions are very large or hard; and H. Mayo (‘ Dis. of Rect.,’ 1833) relates the case of a lady who, during a violent effort at defsecation, felt something give way, and, on the following morning, discovered faeces in her vagina. An examination revealed a rent two inches up the bowel large enough to allow the end of the finger to pass from the rectum into the vagina. Cases are also on record, when, during parturition, a child’s head passed into the rectum and was delivered per anum. In the milder forms of laceration of this kind, cleanliness and laxatives, as a rule, are sufiicient to allow the parts to heal. In some instances, the rent does not heal and the case becomes one of fissured anus or painful ulcer of the rectum, and should be dealt with accordingly. Wounds of the rectum inflicted by the surgeon, as a rule, heal readily, as is fairly proved by the cases of fistula in ano treated by operation, and the recto-vesical operation for stone. The puncture made in the operation of tapping the bladder per rectum for retention also heals quickly. It is well to remember, that the rectum may be wounded by the passage of a bougie, enema syringe, or the introduction of an O’Beirne’s tube. Guy’s Museum contains specimens illustrating all these forms of injury, and, at St. Bartholomew’s there is a specimen of per- foration of the rectum by a metallic clyster pipe, through which gruel was injected into the peritoneal cavity. Foreign bodies in the Rectum. Foreign These may be introduced from without, either from mischief or bodie« in the accident, and trouble may be experienced in their removal, their rectum. shape and position influencing the result. More commonly, how- ever, they have been swallowed, and have passed down the canal, becoming caught or impacted in the rectum. They are not unfre- quently the cause of anal abscess; bones, pins, bristles, &c., being constantly found in the rectum under, these cii-cumstances. Stones, hairs, or husks may likewise form concretions that are foreign bodies. When large foreign bodies have been introduced into the rectum, or concretions or solid masses of feces become there impacted, chloroform should be given to allow of their removal, care being taken not to in- jure the walls of the bowel more than can be helped. With the patient under the influence of chloroform, the sphincters become so relaxed as to allow of the introduction of large instruments, or even the introduc-