473 LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. It should only be entertained, however, under exceptional circunnstances, and more as a palliative than a curative remedy. Ligature of the Common Carotid Artery. This operation was first performed for aneurism by Sir A. Cooper in Ligature of 1805, but unsuccessfully. The same surgeon, however, had a success- common ful case in 1808, the man surviving thirteen years (‘Guy’s Hosp. ^ Kep.,’ vol. i). The operation may be demanded for aneurism or erectile tumours of the trunk itself or one of its branches, in the orbit, on the scalp, &c., and for wounds or haemorrhage. It may also he called for as a distal operation in aortic aneurism. It is a dangerous and sometimes a difficult operation, but in a moderately thin subject it may be performed with facility. It should only be resorted to when all other means of treatment are inapplicable or have been found ineffectual; for aneurism it ought not to be performed unless the treatment by digital compression has been rejected. Holmes well sums up the matter in his College Lectures, 1873, as follows:—“ That the experience of surgeons hitherto leads to the conclusion that aneurism of the trunk of the carotid artery may be very often treated successfully by com- pression, and that the cure by compression frequently leaves the artery unobliterated, and therefore exposes the patient to a far less risk of cerebral mischief than the ligature; that the ligature of the carotid for such tumours is extremely dangerous and ought not to be under- taken until attempts, well devised and perseveringly carried out, have failed to effect the cure by compression j and that when the surgeon has been compelled by the position of the tumour to place his ligature close to the proximal side of the sac, it is \vorth very great considera- tion whether it would not be better to evacuate the tumour, and tie the distal part of the artery also; finally, that cases do occur in which Brasdor’s method holds out a rational hope of cure, but that this ope- ration ought not to be practised except in cases of growing aneurism, when digital pressure checks the pulsation of the tumour, yet has failed to effect a cure.” (‘ Lancet,’ June, 1873.) The vessel may be Place of ligatured in the upper part of its course at the apex of the carotid triangle, in a line with the cricoid cartilage, or, it may be ligatured lower down; the former position is the preferable and more easy, and for disease of any of the bi’anches of the vessel should be selected. The latter should only be resorted to for disease or wound of the upper part of the trunk itself. The course of the artery can always be made out, corresponding as it does with a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular joint to the angle of the jaw; it divides at a line on a level with the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, aud should be tied opposite the cricoid. The centre of the incision should consequently correspond to this point, and should extend about three inches along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The position of the patient should therefore be such as to render this muscle prominent, w’hich is ensured by the extension of the head backwards, the face being turned to the opposite side. Before making the first incision through the skin, platysma, and Description superficial fascia, the surgeon should assure himself that no large vein, operation, such as the anterior jugular, is likely to be divided; gentle pressure below, enough to interfere with the venous circulation of the part, readily supplies this information. The deep fascia covering in the sheath