394 AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Treatmeut. Narrowing of meatus. Treatment. Exostoses. The long-continued use of astringent lotions, especially of alum solu- tions, seems to place the meatus in a condition favorable to their forma- tion, if it be not the actual cause in some cases. The symptoms they occasion are great throbbing and pain, consequent on the unyielding condition of the skin and connective tissue of the external meatus to the pressure from the accumulating p.us, fever (especially during the evening), sometimes tinnitus, a feeling of tension in the ear, and more or less deafness, according to the position and extent of the inflammation. They occur at all ages and in all constitutions, but middle age obtains by far the majority of cases. The prognosis is favorable, though you may be unable to check the formation of new crops, which go on for months, even in the most robust people. The treatment is conducted either with a view to arrest the development of the abscess, or the foi’mation being complete to give the pus free exit. The former may be brought about by painting the swelling with a strong solution of nitrate of silver (5ss—3j oj of water) or a solution of sulphate of zinc of the same strength. The latter is best accomplished by a small narrow knife, so narrow in the blade and handle that it does not exclude your view of the part while making a free incision through the boil. After making the incision I find it useful to apply a vacuum speculum (Siegle’s—see article on Affections of the Membrana Tym- pani) to the meatus, and by suction empty the abscess as much as possible of pus and at the same time obtain a free flow of blood from the wound. The application of moist heat afterwards by frequently filling the ear with warm water, and laying for half an hour or so a cataplasm over the whole ear so filled, of leeches in front of the tragus if there is much pain, or of a plug of cotton which has been saturated with glycerine (Fisher), changed twice daily, for the same purpose, and the judicious use of purgatives, result in a favorable termination to the particular boil in question, but the constitutional treatment must follow to prevent, if possible, the development of others. As a local preven- tive, Mr. Hinton considered that the application to the meatus of red or white precipitate ointment was of service. Narrowing of the meatus in the cartilaginous portion occurs not un- frequently in the aged, on account of the tense tissue-bundles of the posterior and upper walls having become loosened and sunk forwards against the anterior wall. This narrowing seldom leads to complete closure, and therefore does not influence the hearing power to any extent, but its presence prevents the normal exit of the cerumen, and so tends to the formation of cerumen balls beyond the narrowed part of the meatus and their results. Other narrowings, besides those which are congenital, arise from thickening of the skin after frequent attacks of inflammation of the meatus, after furuncle and other tumours, eczema, and the long use of astringent lotions or ointments. Except in the case of tumours, you may widen the canal by the use of the Laminaria digitata or sponge dilators sufficiently to form your diagnosis and apply remedies. Treat any affection of the tympanic cavity which may be present. Keep the canal clear of cerumen and epidermis by injections of luke- warm water or the passage of a dry camel’s hair pencil, and by the use of small ivory bougies, gradually increased in size so that the amount of pressure may be kept up, promote ab.sorptiou. Exostoses of the meatus are found in individuals of the gouty, rheu-