OPEEATIONS ON THE PALATE. 529 ■ best material for sutures is fine gut; Mr. Smith uses horsehair for the lower stitches. I have rarely used anything but gut for all plastic ( operations since the year 1860, taking the precaution to select and to |. soak it in water for some minutes before using it. During the last two ' years I have as often used silk as not. If Sir W. Fergusson’s plan of paralysing the muscles be employed, it should be, as he advises, as a preliminary step to the operation. ’ If Sedillot’s or Pollock’s plan be followed (Fig. 202), it may now be ( done by inserting a knife through the velum about a third of an inch ' from the highest suture, and cutting along the posterior edge of the I hard palate towards the free margin, but not through it. This is the I course I have until recently adopted. The two pillars of the fauces may Mode of j then be snipped with scissors. The sutures have then to be fastened, and applying the I the best plan is, to run a perforated shot over the gut and clamp them, tying the ends of the gut in a knot to prevent the possibility of their i slipping. I usually begin at the highest. Care should be taken not I to draw the stitches too tightly. The parts should be sponged as little . as possible, and the less manipulation there is the better; any irrita- I tion causing so free a secretion of mucus as to interfere greatly with 1 the surgeon’s proceedings. Bapidity in operating is consequently an advantage. When the parts require to be cleansed in the adult, iced water may be used as a gargle; and with a child under chloroform, the stitches may at times be inserted and the edges pared before any cleansing is required. In deep mouths where difiiculty is experienced in passing the sutures, a clever manoeuvre suggested by Avery may be called for, and is illustrated in Fig. 202 ; one end of the gut c is pulled through the soft palate and the end passed through a loop of silk (a) inserted on the right side; on pulling the loop the end c will be drawn through the right side. When silk is used, the double reef knot as shown at the lower part of Fig. 202, and generally adopted by Fer- gusson, is very serviceable. Fig. 201. Fig. 202. of tlie palate after the edges A. Avery’s plan of passing sutures, have been adjusted. B. Fergusson’s plan of fastening sutures. VOL. I. 34