436 ANEUEISM. Over-action of heart. Aneurism in cliildren. doubt the mostcommou predisposing cause, while over-action of the heart and circulation is the exciting cause of aneu- rism. Direct injury to an artery is an oc- casional cause (traumatic), although more frequently the injury sets up the disease in the artery that produces the aneurism. Whenever the coats of an artery are weak- ened by accident, disease (suppurative or otherwise), or the loss of their natural sup. port, they become liable to dilate under any sudden or prolonged increase in the force of the circulation under violent exertion, or from a sudden emotion of the mind. Dr. Rendle, of the Queen’s Prison, Brixton, has recorded two cases in which abdominal aneurism, could be traced to the shock caused by a sentence of transportation. Hence aneurisms, are more common in the aorta, where chronic inflammatory changes are so likely to ap- pear, and the heart’s action more directly felt; at the bifurcation of an artery, where the force of the circulation is always more powerful; or, at the flexure of joints, where muscular action is the most liable to tell by overstretching or bending. That aneurism is a disease of the arterial system and not always of traumatic origin is proved from the fact that a man may have an aneurism form when in bed, and that the whole arterial system may be involved in the disease. Broca has mentioned a case of Pelletan’s, in which sixty-thi’ee aneurisms were found in one body. It is also a disease' of middle age, half the cases, according to Lisfranc, occurring between the ages of thirty and forty-five. It is not uncom- mon, however, to find it in young persons. Syme has recorded an instance in a child of nine. My colleague. Dr. Habershon, had another of femoral aneurism with heart disease in a boy of ten, and cerebral aneurism in early life is still more common. But such cases, almost without exception, are associated with exten- sive vegetations on the valves of the heart, and often with ulcer- ation of the valves. The symptoms are those which Dr. Wilks has described under the term “ arterial pyajmia,” or mainly, considerable pyrexia and enlargement of the spleen. Many such are now on record, and, beside the parts above mentioned, they have been found situated on the ulnar, popliteal, axillary, mesenteric, and many other smaller vessels. Indeed the frequency of their occurrence can only be estimated by looking into the literature of visceral aneurisms. It will then be found, that though the relation between heart disease and aneurism has not till of late years been studied (and even now only an opinion is doubtfully hazarded as to the connection between the two) very many cases of aneurism associated with endocarditis and emboli in the solid viscera have been recorded at different times. Among the earliest writers on the subject are Joliffe Tufnell in the ‘ Dublin Jour- nal,’ vol. XV, p. 371; Dr. Ogle, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. viii j Dr. Wilks, do., vol. xi; Mr. Holmes, d'o., vol. xii. Other cases have been recorded in the same ‘ Transactions’ more recently by Drs. Church, Goodhart, Gow'crs, Fig. 128.