253 SHOCK AND COLLAPSE. any of its forms, henbane, and chloral, are also very valuable, a few hours’ calm sleep generally acting like a charm, yet when brain com- plication appears this treatment is to be adopted with care. Anything like coma contra-indicates it. In compound fractures and other local injuries demanding operation, Amputation it is an important question to decide, as to the wisdom of operating on “ a patient in a state of shock. Can the operation act as a stimulant, and tend to rouse him ? or may it act as a second shock, and tend the other way ? When the shock is severe, and the patient almost pulseless, it is doubtless the wiser plan to postpone all operative interference till the heart’s action is re-established. To amputate a limb under extreme collapse is to destroy what chance of life exists, or to do an unnecessary operation. To amputate when reaction has set in after the lapse of a few hours, when external warmth, stimulants, and tonics have had their influence, is likely to prove successful. In less severe examples of collapse, however, the same practice 'When does not seem to be necessary, especially when hajmorrhage has permissible, been the partial cause, and is still continuing, because when collapse is present, the loss of very little extra blood by oozing forbids any hope of a good reaction being established, and thus no benefit can be acquired by delay, but only harm. The administration of chloro- form has, moreover, a stimulating influence upon the heart and nervous system, which is often very valuable. I have frequently performed primary amputation upon subjects in a state of partial collapse after injury under these circumstances, and have never regretted it. With a patient in a state of collapse no amputation should, however, be performed, when, by delay, no harm can accrue. W'hen hajmorrhage, however trivial, is going on, or is likely to recur at any moment, the surgeon should interfere and remove the part when its removal is essential. When the collapse is associated with semi-consciousness, chloroform is not needed, the operation itself acting as a sufificient stimulant; but when the mind is clear as to what is going on, its use should not be with- held, because although it is true its secondary effects are sometimes depressing, and may be injurious, in a general way it has a benefi- cial influence, tending to prevent a second shock, both mentally and physically. When extreme collapse exists. “How far,” writes Savory, “the patient should be allowed to rally, collapse is and when he has reached that state which will enable him to bear the extreme, operation, are, of course, questions which cannot be answered in a general manner, but which must be decided by the surgeon in each case.” Where the surgeon is in doubt about acting, he had better decide in favour of delay. When no doubt exists as to the wisdom of removing an injured part, and by delay harm must or may probably ensue, he should act at once, even when the patient has not quite rallied from the shock of the injury. When, so far as the local injury is concerned, the delay of a few days or hours is unimportant, all operative inter- ference should be postponed. In severe compound fractures, gunshot or otherwise, haemorrhage is almost sure to occur as soon as reaction appears, and the shock of the removal of a limb is not so much to be dreaded as the loss of blood.