AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE. 521 associated with paralysis of the facial nerve, differing in this way from Decision as to innocent growths. Never should they he surgically interfered with. The difficulty of deciding as to the removal of large growths in this position is very great, and the best guide is their mobility. Sir W. Fergusson, who had had more experience in these cases than any man of modern times, says, “ If it were evident that the part slid freely over the subjacent textures, I should not hesitate about using the knife, whatever might be the hulk of the disease,” &c.; “but if the tumour seemed fixed, its limits were not clearly defined, or an attempt to move it caused pain, I should not readily be induced to use the knife, however small the mass might be,” and I endorse these views. AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE. Affections of the tongue. Tongue-tie is occasionally met with, but not a tithe of the cases so ascribed are of this nature. It is due to a tying down of the tip of Tongue-tie. the tongue by the frsenum linguse, which prevents the infant from projecting the organ beyond the gums, thereby interfering with suck- ling. It is easily remedied by dividing the frtenum perpendicularly Treatment, downwards behind the gum with a pair of blunt pointed scissors, the point of the tongue being elevated with the finger, or a pair of dressing forceps applied beneath. Wounds of the Tongue. These are sometimes troublesome from hmmorrhage, hut, when the Wounds of parts are brought together the bleeding as a rule censes; sutures should ^aague. always be employed when gaping exists. If, howeveu. a bleeding vessel be visible, it ought to he tied or twisted. The sutures must be put in deeply to draw the whole thickness of the divided parts together. On one occasion, owing to a neglect of this practice, I had to pare the surface of an old wound of the tongue that had passed through the half of the organ transversely, and then bring the parts together. The child was clearly unable to talk on account of the injury; yet after the operation, all was well. When bleeding is obstinate and the parts cannot he brought together, the cautery or perchloride of iron may be usefully employed. In exceptional cases the ranine artery may require a ligature. Ice in the mouth arrests slight hsemorrhage. Hypertrophy of the Tongue. This is a troublesome affection, chiefly from the mechanical obstruc- Hypertrophy tion which it causes, is chiefly found in young subjects, and is some- tongue, times congenital. It has been ascribed to chronic inflammation of the organ, but that such is invariably the case appears doubtful. When it has existed for years, it may cause distortion of the jaws. It may involve the whole organ or only half. In a case I had under my care not long ago, this latter condition was singularly well illus- trated. It is to be recognised simply by the increased size of the organ, no external evidence of disease usually existing. The enlargement, as a rule, is painless, though when the tongue cannot be kept in the mouth, the disease is distressing. It is not often amenable to treat- ment. In the ease of a hoy, ret. 6, who was originally under the Treatment, late Dr. Addison’s care at Guy’s for a congenital enlargement of the organ, the perchloride of mercury in small doses reduced the size of the organ so as to allow of its return into the mouth, and, although several relapses took place in later years, the same treatment was repeated with