LIGATURE OP THE ARTERIES. 477 can readily be exposed by a vertical or oblique incision an inch long, I one third of an inch in front of the tragus. 11 The occipital artery can be traced by a line drawn from the mastoid Ligature of t ji process to the occipital protuberance, and lies beneath the skin and the occipital cranial aponeurotic origins of the sterno-mastoid and splenius trachelo- artery. r mastoid and digastric'muscles, which must be divided to reach the vessel in the deep part of its course. The artery can be felt about the [ centre of the line mentioned. j| Ligature of the Subclavian Artery. Ligature |j|; This operation in the first part of the vessel’s course has been per- gui,*clLian H I formed twelve times, but never with success. It is an unscientific as well artery^*'^" I as an unsuccessful operation, and, for disease, it is scarcely a justifiable 1 I proceeding, though for a wound it may perhaps be entertained. Thein- I cision for the operation would be similar to that for the innominate. The point usually selected for the application of a ligature to the Place of f subclaviau is in the third part of its course, where the artery emerges selection. F from behind the scalenus muscle. This operation may be demanded for aneurism of the axillary artery or for a wounded vessel. Aneurism may affect the subclavian artery in any part of its course; On sub- it may involve the whole of the artery, or be confined to its first clavian or third portion. When situated on the artery to the inner side of the scaleni muscles, it may be mistaken for an innominate or aortic aneu- Its seat, rism; or a common aneurism may involve all these vessels on the right side of the body. When affecting the artery external to the scaleni, it is most frequently associated with disease of the axillary artery. The diagnosis of subclavian aneurism is consequently by no means Its diaguosis. easy, and is thus referred to by Nelaton : “ In subclavian aneurism the tumour extends generally externally to the clavicular origiu of the sterno-mastoid muscle, reaching the | 1 posterior and inferior triangle of the neck; becomes more elongated ; transversely than vertically; the bruit is propagated more towards the axilla thau the neck, and remains the same on compressing the carotid; I the radial pulse enfeebled; the limb painful and oedematous, and incommoded in its movements. In carotid aneurism the tumour is seated between the sternal and clavicular origins of the sterno-mastoid muscle, becomes more elongated in a vertical direction than in a trans- verse one, and on auscultation gives to the ear a bruit de souffle, which is propagated more towards the side of the neck than the arm, with diminution of the arterial pulsation in the corresponding side of the face and cranium, and without weakening the radial pulse on the same i side. In innominate aneurism the tumour is placed under the i sternum, or at the inner border of the sternal portion of the sterno- I mastoid muscle, with weakening of the pulse in the subclavian and j carotid arteries, and with absence of the other signs peculiar to the \ two other forms.” f I The prognosis must always be regarded as unfavorable, for these Its prognosis. I aneurisms are peculiarly liable to become diffused even in the early I stage of their development as a visible tumour; yet there are several I instances on record of their slow progress, and, some fortunate examples I of their ultimate cure by natural eftbrts. I The treatment of these aneurisms is most unsatisfactory, the space Its : ) at the disposal of the surgeon being so limited that he is at a loss to treatment. I