CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. 282 Diagnosis. Mode of detection. and hip-joint, in which a bending of the dorsal vertebrae forward with immohility were the only symptoms of spinal disease that existed (Fig. 87). It occurred in a man, ajt. 34, who died with inflammation and dilatation of the hronchial tubes from asphyxia, his breathing having been entirely diaphragmatic from a want of movement in the costal joints. Pig. 87. 5o(n£its process [ Transverse process Difficult in early stage. Diagnosis.—When any acute an- gular curvature of the spine exists there can he no difficulty in recog- nising the nature of the disease, or the process by which the curvature has been brought about. When a large abscess coexists with the deformity, there is good reason to suspect, that the one is the direct result of the other, more particu- larly when the suppuration can be traced up to the spinal deformity. The difficulty of diagnosis is felt in the early stage of the disease before change has taken place, ^nd, it is here that great care is needed, because if any decided good is to be gained by treatment, it is at this early period. What, then, are the indications which denote the presence of spinal disease ? Local and persistent pain is probably the earliest, and when this is accom- panied by local tenderness on firm pressure the surgeon’s suspicions should he excited. When to these symptoms the patient exhibits a riqidity of the spine in walking or moving, when, on being told to pick up anything from the ground, he lends his knees in preference to lending his lack, the diagnosis becomes more certain. When pain is detected in the course of any of the nerves coming from the seat of the affection; when the patient complains of any sudden jar of the back by a slip down stairs or by any jump; when any constitutional disturbance is present, such as a quick pulse, occasional febrihty, and a furred tongue; when all these symptoms, or many in combimition exist during that period of life when hones are growing, and bone disease is ant to appear, the surgeon should always suspect disease o some portion of II spine, and. u^ntil he can satisfy himself that none sLh exists, it is a wise plan to treat the case as if were present. May simulate It is true that, by adopting this rule of practice, hysteria. misled, and at times treat a case of as one of spinal disease , but then what harm ? He will probably do good to the hysterical patient by the treatment he would adopt for the spinal complaint, while he would^ certainly do much harm to the latter, by neglecting such “ "itTs^'an Sterest^g" diSnS the best cases of recoveiw^tire worst ^les & spinal curvature and disease are to be tLnd amongst that miserable class of patients who have never Synostosis of ribs to vertebra;, &c.