173 MYCETOMA. tion that when once perforating ulcer of the sole of the foot is estab- lished and recognised, it is better at once to remove the whole of the metatarsal bones, either by Chopart’s, Syme’s, or Pirogoffs amputation.” These cases are not to be confused with the suppurating bursse cr bunions found in feet deformed from short or tight hoots. Oriental Sore. The Oriental sore, which includes the Delhi boil, Moultan sore, Tlie Delhi Aleppo boil or Biskra bouton, seems to he due to the use of brackish, boil, hard well-water (the Delhi well-water containing 45 to 50 grains of carbonate of lime per gallon) j rather than to the presence of an animal parasite, as suggested by Messrs. Alcock and Fleming, of the Indian Army (‘Med. Kep.,’ 1868). It shows itself, says Sir J. Fayrer (‘ Practit.,’ October, 1875), as an “ intractable, indurated, indolent sore, papular in the early, encrusted or fungating in the advanced stages; spreading by ulceration of skin, single or multiple, often occupying extensive surfaces of the exposed parts of the body,” and its secretion contains minute cell-growths, by which the disease is propagated. It may attack dogs and horses. Messrs. Lewis and Cunningham (‘Appendix to 12th Report of Sanitary Commissioners with Government of India’), assert, however, that the disease is of the nature of a lupus, and should he treated as such. Indeed, they describe it as “lupus endemicus,” ‘ Lancet,’ April 7, 1877. It is to be treated by personal cleanliness, the avoidance of the use of hard water, the early destruction of the sore by the cautery or caustic, and the application of metallic astrin- gents. Tonic treatment, a good diet and if possible change of locality and climate should be secured. Mycetoma or the fungus disease of India. This disease has been described by Dr. Carter, of Bombay, The fnnpus in the ‘ Trans, of the Med. and Phys. Soc.,’ Bombay, 1861, and of in a memoir published by Churchill, 1874, and is supposed by him to be due to the presence of a fungus. Other authors have thrown doubt upon this point, and amongst them F. B. Lewis and D. Cunningham, of Calcutta, who conclude that it is reasonable to infer that localised spots in the tissues undergo degenerative changes into a substance peculiarly adapted to the development of filamentous growths, the origin of which in situations where no spore could penetrate must remain matter of perplexity (M. J. Berkeley, ‘ Nature,’ November 9, 1876), although the disease is weli recognised. Berkeley observes, however, that the bodies found in the disease “so nearly simulate fungous growths, that it is difficult to get rid of the notion that they are really vegetable growths.” (‘ In- tellect. Observ.,’ 1863.) The disease is more frequent in men than in women, and affects all classes, rich as well as poor, hut it has never attacked a European. ^ The disease is chronic, and affects most commonly the foot, some- times^ the hand, and but rarely other parts of the body. It is very slow in its progress, and has no tendency to get well if left alone. Usually it begins on the plantar surface of the foot or the palmar of the hand, as an induration in or under the skin; this subse- quently softens down, a bleb then forms over the spot, and bursts, leaving a sinuous opening, from which exudes a thin, sanious, sero- purulent discharge. As the disease progresses, other indurations,