140 MICBOaCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOtTES. which may he so well pronounced as to bring them almost into con- tinuity with adenomas; they differ from these chiefly in their history as being infectious, so as to extend into the neighbouring tissues, to the glands, or to the viscera. The structure showing only those minor peculiarities which I have just described. Five leading types of carcinoma may at present be conveniently distinguished. 1st. Those in which the fibrous meshwork is in preponderance, and the epithelioid contents of the alveoli are scanty, and, perhaps, also prone to perish early, so that they are found more or less degenerate within the fibrous meshes—Hard Carcinoma, or Scirrhus. 2nd. Those in which the fibrous meshwork is in smaller proportion, and the epithelioid contents are plentiful, making large collections of cells, but with no evident approach in the form of these collections to the shapes of gland-acini, and no evident resemblance of the compo- nent cells, either to the columnar epithelium of mucous glands, or the squamous epithelium of cuticle—Soft Carcinoma. This kind occurs especially in glands, and the transformation of the glandular tubes or follicles to cancer alveoli can be seen in all stages in the growing margin of the tumour (see the upper two drawings in Fig. 3^2, from the liver and kidney). 3rd. A structure essentially such as that last described, but with this difference, that the epithelioid cells have a quantity of mucus between them, which is regarded as arising from a transformation of them. This change to mucus may be carried to such an extreme that scarcely any cellular elements are left, while the alveolar meshes in which the mucus is contained becomes very strikingly visible from its nakedness and the pellucidity of the mucus—Colloid, or Alveolar Cancer. A com- mon seat of this is the wall of the alimentary canal, where it may he traced arising from Lieberkiihn’s follicles. 4th. A structure in which the epithelial cells resemble squamous epithelium, and form masses which are very like the follicles of cutaneous glands, or occasionally like rudimentary hairs; the tubular and bulbous forms may, how'ever, be seen ramifying like the lymphatic vessels of the skin, as if their form were moulded to the lymphatic plexus—Epithelioma. In these cancers peculiar bodies are found, composed of flattened cells disposed concentrically so as to form a scaly-walled globe (a. Fig. 32) whose appearance is like the section of an onion, or like a bird’s nest j these are so large as often to be visible to the naked eye; when they are numerous and well characterised, they are diagnostic; some authors (Billroth) distinguish a variety of this cancer in which the stroma preponderates over the epithelial part, calling it scirrhus of the skin—Squamous Epithelial Carcinoma. 5th. A structure in which the epithelial cells resemble ordinary columnar epithelium, and the structure itself is quite like normal mucous membrane, in which it always primarily arises (alimentary canal, especially colon, uterus) ; the secondary formations which occa- sionally occur in these cases, in the liver especially, have the same structure, and thus a tissue like the glandular mucous membrane of the colon may be found in the liver—Cylindrical Epithelial Carcinoma. The fourth and fifth varieties are distinguished from the three first as epithelial cancers or epithelioinata. Some authors have used the term cancroid for the fourth variety, as though it were not completely