COMPRESSION OP THE BRAIN. 220 Hsemorrliage between bone and dura mater witliout fracture; trephining; recovery. (i. Local injury and local paralysis. of blood or in some other way, the sj'mptoms are “ general,” i. e. one side is not more paralysed than the other. When the compression is more localised, the paralysis is partial and corresponds with the region affected; though when the extravasation is extensive, even though localised, the general effect may mask the local symptoms. The best examples of this form of limited compression are found in cases of fracture of the skull from a local injury, and extravasation of blood between the bone and the dura mater. The case quoted on page 216 is a good one in point; though the following is probably a better, as it is complete. P—, 8ct. 46, a painter, having fallen from a height upon his head on a piece of iron, received a severe scalp wound on the right side of the median line of the head, with slight concussion. He was admitted into Guy’s under Mr. Cock’s care in 1841, conscious, and remained so for eleven hours after the injury; four hours later he was found in a state of utter unconsciousness, with stertorous breathing and insensible pupils. He continued gradually to get worse. The left arm and leg when pinched were readily retracted. The right side was completely paralysed. No fracture could be discovered. Trephin- ing was performed above and behind the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal bone over the trunk of the middle meningeal artery, and a large piece of bone removed. A gush of blood then took place, and a large coagulum was removed from outside the dura mater. The deen stertor at once ceased, and the next day the man moved his right arm and leg freely, and recognised his wife. He progressed favorably after the operation, though recovery was retarded by bone exfoliation. He resumed his work and occupation, and continued in good health for thirteen years. During this period, however, he had at intervals ex- foliation of some portion of the skull at the seat of injury; in the ninth year he had fits, which during the last six years of his life re- curred at intervals, the attacks, as Mr. Cock reported, becoming gradu- ally more frequent and severe in their character. Six months before his death he had paralysis of the opposite side of the body to that of the injury; the face was included in the paralysis, and his speech was somewhat affected. He died after a severe apoplectic fit. After death the brain beneath the injured bone was found softened and adherent to the skull; and it contained a recent clot of three or four ounces of blood, which filled the ventricles. “ It appeared probable,” says Dr. Wilks, who made the examination, “ that a softening had been going on for some months in the middle hemisphere of the brain, involving the contiguous surfaces of the corpus striatum and thalamus, and that at last a rupture of the vessel had taken place, infiltrating all these diseased structures as well as the ventricles.” The trephine opening was filled in by a tough membrane; and around its margins there was evidence of considerable ostitis having taken place. (Cock, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1857.) When a patient receives a direct blow upon one side of the head, causing a fracture with depression of the bone, and attended with paralysis of the opposite side of the body and a fixed and dilated pupil on the side of the injury, the conclusion is inevitable, that the depressed bone is the cause of the paralysis, by producing pressure upon the brain ; the depression must, however, be very great to give rise to such symptoms.