LIGATURE OP SUBCLAVIAN. 478 Ligiiturc. Amputation. Galvano- punclure. Manipu- lation. Compression. Acupressure. Injection into sac. Hypodermic injection. ' Statistics of the treatment of subclavian aneurism. know where he can attack the disease hy the few means that are at command. Ligature of the first portion of the subclavian, ligature of the innominate, the distal ligature of the subclavian and axillary arteries, and ligature of the carotid, have all been performed, and, with one exception, been attended with fatal results. The exceptional case is that of Dr. Smyth, of New Orleans, who tied the innominate and carotid, and subsequently the vertebral artery on the fifty-fourth day. It is only in small aneurisms, occupying the third portion of the artery and the commencement of the axillary, that the operation of tying the subclavian external to the scaleni has been successfully per- formed, and, in some of these instances, the outer fibres of the scalenus anticus muscle have been obliged to be divided. The amputation at the shoulder-joint on the distal side of the aneu- rism has been suggested by surgeons for the cure of the disease. It has too been successfully performed by Professor Spence, of Edinburgh. Galvano-puncture has been successful in one case by Abeille; and escharotics in another by Bonnet. Manipulation has been em- ployed by Eergusson in two cases, and by Lidell in one case, with satisfactory results in the latter one only. A case of Porter’s may also be accepted as successful. Direct compression of the aneurism has been tried by Warren with a favourable issue, although much danger was risked in the proceeding. Corner’s case (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. lii), though one not actually of the same kind, was a very good instance of the value of preventing an aneurism from en- larging, and exerting such moderate compression as to incite fibrinous deposition in the interior of the sac. Poland’s case of successful pressure on the artery on the cardiac side of the aneurism is quite exceptional. Gay also has recently met with success. The use of acupressure by Porter, though successful on the distal side of the aneurism, proved fatal when applied on the cardiac side to the innominate artery, and injection into the sac was performed in one case with a fatal result. Langenheck has recently injected the parts over the aneurism with a, solution of ergotin, the objext being to cause con- traction of the aneurismal sac. Such is a list of the means which have been resorted to, but the success has never been great. The ques- tion naturally arises, therefore, whether we should not discard such measures, and treat these aneurisms on the ordinary principles of internal aneurisms, hy rest, attention to diet, and medicinal remedies. Mr. Poland, in an admirable essay in the ‘ Guy’s Eeports’ for 1870, gives a very favorable return of cases which he has been able to collect in reference to this point. It stands thus: Out of 13 that underwent general and local treatment 7 recovered, 1 was relieved, and 5 died; out of 22 cases in which an expectant treatment only was pursued, 4 recovered and 18 died; thereby giving a total of 11 recoveries and 23 deaths, 1 being relieved. Of the 23 fatal cases, the duration of life was noticed in 17. In 21 cases in which the subclavian artery was ligatured in the third part of its course for aneurism, 9 recovered (in 6 of these it was the left artery that was ligatured), and 12 died: 8 of the deaths were due to brnmorrhage, and 4 to brain complications or other symptoms. Poland’s facts thus accord well with Koch’s, who gives 36 recoveries out of 65 cases, something less than half dying, a success, which is certainly encouraging to induce surgeons to undertake the operation.