MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOURS. 131 When the galvanic, or thermo- cautery can be obtained epithelial skin cancer may be readily destroyed. I have burnt down many such afEect- ing the nose, cheek, eyelid, scalp, hand, arm, lip, and other parts. By it large surface of diseased tissue may be completely carbonised and a healthy surface produced after the removal of the eschar. The opera- tion should be performed with the aid of chloroform, and the whole thickness and edges of the diseased tissue destroyed. The after-pain is very slight, the cautery destroying all nerve sensibility. It is by far the best mode we possess of dealing with skin cancer, is more rapid in its action and certain in its result, besides being far less painful. When the disease extends it may be removed with the scalpel and the base of the sore cauterized. No more efficient mode of removing a skin cancer is within our reach. The treatment of tumours by injection of fluids into their substance. On treatment as originally suggested by Sir J. Simpson, and more recently practised o( tnmoiurs by Dr. Broadbent, has in it the elements of a successful plan, but has injection, not yet been brought to any available state of perfection. Fatty tumours may be destroyed by the introduction into their substance of a few drops of deliquescent chloride of zinc, but cancerous tumours do not appear amenable to a like remedy. Dr. Broadbent believes that he has succeeded by injecting a liquid composed of one part of acetic acid and three of water; while Messrs. Moore and De Morgan assert that they have each succeeded by these means in obtaining gradual diminution of cancerous growths. I tried the plan in twenty cases, when it was first introduced, but never found any good result ensue. It was often very painful, and many patients refused to have it re- peated, although they asked for the excision of the growth. More recently the injection of twenty drops of a solution of bromine dissolved in spirit, in^v to a 3j, has had its advocates. The treatment by pressure is of no practical utility. By way of summary, it may be stated (1) that cancerous tumours Treatmeat by should be excised when practicable, and the sooner the operation is per- pressure, formed, after the diagnosis is clear, the better. That removal by the ^craseur is equivalent to excision. (II) Open cancerous tumours, as a rule, should be treated by Treatment of caustics, the best being those which contain chloride of zinc or bv cancer, enucleation. (III) For skin cancers caustics are, as a nxle, the most available. Of skin although excision in some instances, as in the lip, is to be preferred, cancers. The galvanic cautery, however, should be employed when possible, it being the most rapid and efficient detsructive agent we possess. THE MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OF TUMOURS. By Dr. MoxoN. Two distinct processes are observed in the construction of our bodies; General the production of the elementary pieces, by whose compilation the observations, fabric is composed; and the disposition of these elementary pieces into certain forms, whose shapes suit them to the requirements of the part to be made. These two processes differ as much as making bricks differs from building. Each of the tissues of which the body is composed has