577 TREATMENT OP DECAY. darkening shows through the enamel, and in the case of a front tooth is first observable on the lingual or labial surface, and in the case Discoloration of the back teeth usually on the masticatory surface (see Fig. 243, a), often the first The amount of discoloration varies, sometimes a distinct black spot being visible and showing through the enamel, in other cases a smoked appearance or a slate colour being imported to the aSiected quarter of the tooth, the variable depth of shade being dependent on the distance from the enamel surface at which the decayed den- tine lies, and also upon the character of the decay. In young teeth, with their deficient density, decay runs a rapid course, and the pulp, being larger, is quickly exposed. The teeth of women during the term of pregnancy are apt to decay rapidly, and to be peculiarly sensitive—a reason for having them put in good oi’der in anticipation of that event. Treatment of Decay. Treatment. To stay the progress of decay in the hard structures of the crown, two methods are practised, viz. “ cutting-out ” and “ stopping.” In either case the affected dental structures must be thoroughly removed and the cavity obliterated. “Cutting-out” decay is accomplished by removing adjacent sound Cutting-out. enamel and dentine, together with the diseased portion, in such a manner that there is left an even surface of hard and healthy tooth, which should be well polished. The full depth to which disease has affected the dentine should be ascertained before the adoption of this method, which should only be had recourse to in healthy mouths, and only in cases where the cut surface will be exposed to friction. Stopping consists in the removal of diseased structure, in the giving Stopping, to the resulting cavity a retaining shape, and the insertion into it of a stopping which is made flush with and accurately adapted to the edges of sound surrounding tooth structure. In practice, cutting-away and stopping are often combined. Dentine left exposed should always he well polished, and if sensitive, camphorated spirits of wine may with advantage be applied to it daily, or it may be touched with chloride of zinc, or in the back of the mouth nitrate of silver or a spirit solution of tannin may be applied to it. Various materials are used for stoppings. Materials Gold, skilfully inserted, gives the best results when the tooth is in I” a condition to bear its introduction. * °PP'"g- Amalgams (among which the so-called gold amalgam is very good) Amalgams, can be introduced into a cavity in a plastic state, and therefore can be packed round corners and adapted to thin walls that might not bear the pressure necessary to consolidate gold. Silicated gutta percha, from its non-conduction of heat and cold, is valuable as a temporary filling, and is particularly %vell adapted for cavities which pass below the gum j in positions where it is not exposed to the wear of mastication it sometimes lasts for years. “Osteo,” an oxychloride of zinc stopping, has the advantage of clinging to the walls of the cavity, which consequently requires less shaping; it is also non-compressible, which, with its property of non- conduction, renders it valuable as a tempoi-ary filling where the pulp is almost or quite exposed. It will not last long if in contact with the gum, and is not to be trusted in interstitial fillings ; but for stopping 37 VOL. I.