21 TREATMENT OP ABSCESS. extremity, or beneath the periosteum of hones—specially about joints or anywhere beneath the deep fascia, and particularly the fascim of the perinseum and anus. Superficial abscesses ought always to he opened, and a lancet, or a fine By incision, double-edged knife with a central groove, should be employed (fig. 3). fiG. 8. Double-edged Abscess Knife, with groove in centre. On the neck and face the line of incision should be made to correspond with the course of the superficial skin muscles, or the lines or folds of the part—the deformity resulting from the cicatrix being thereby greatly diminished; but in other cases the incision must be in the best direction for emptying the cavity. In all abscesses the puncture should be made where the abscess is “ pointing,” or the integument is thinnest; and, where this indication is absent, at the most dependent part of the abscess. The operator should always avoid dividing super- ficial veins and nerves, the position of the former being made out by intercepting the flow of blood through them by the pressure of the finger. Deep vessels and nerves should be carefully avoided, their Avoid deep anatomical position being always remembered. When abscesses have 'vessels, to be opened in their neighbourhood, the incision should be made parallel to them. In opening an abscess a plunge ought not to be made. The operator Mode of should mark the point of intended puncture with his eye, then, introducing his instruinent with decision through the soft parts into the ® cavity, make the incisio'n of the required length by cutting outwards as soon ns pus oozes upwards by the sides of the instrument. To do this sleepily is to give unnecessary pain, whereas to do it with a stab or plunge only causes unnecessary alarm. It should be done, as ought every other act of surgery, with confidence and decision ; boldness and rapidity of action being governed by caution, and made subservient to safety. To open an abscess that is pointing (or which has a cavity to be felt) by dissecting down upon it, is a had practice; although in deep-seated abscesses, which are covered by parts which it would be dangerous to wound, where surgical interference is called for, such a method may be the best—extreme caution being requisite under extreme danger. Under these circumstances the surgeon should follow Mr. Hilton’s method of opening deep-seated abscesses, which has been practised at Guy’s for many years. In deep-seated abscesses in the axilla, says Hilton (‘Lectures on Hilton’s Rest,’ 1863), “ I cut with a lancet through the skin and cellular tissue method, of the axilla, about half or three quarters of an inch behind the axillary edge of the great pectoral muscle. At this point we can meet with no blood-vessels. Then I push a grooved probe, or grooved director, up- wards into the swelling in the axilla; and, if you watch the groove, a little opaque serum or pus wdll show itself. Take a blunt (not a sharp) instrument, such as a pair of dressing forceps, and run the closed blades