EEMOTE NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 573 Partial paralysis of the arm and hand, with an inahility to grasp with the fingers, accompanied by aching pain. (Several such cases have recently been under my observation, a fact which shows their comparative frequency.) Amaurosis. Strabismus. (Ptosis and deafness are also recorded com- plications.) Ulceration in the course of a branch of the fifth nerve. A case of obstinate leucorrhcea and acute uterine pain cured by the extraction of a tooth was recorded by the late Mr. Sercombe. One case of fatal tetanus is quoted by Mr. Tomes as having followed the operation of pivoting. Such are some of the reflex pains and remote complications which may arise from dental irritation in a patient of neuralgic diathesis, but apparently similar exciting causes are constantly present w'ithout producing any such results. In an apparently sound tooth an irregular formation of dentine in Cental the pnlp chamber is sometimes the cause of neuralgic pain, and may diseases, be suspected if hypersesthesia of the pulp exists in a tooth exhibiting no other causes for over-sensitiveness. Exostqsis and occasionally needle-pointing of the fang may also be the cause of neuralgic pain at the root of a sound tooth, and may have their probable presence revealed by the tooth exhibiting tender- ness on pressure into the socket, and perhaps, later on, by other evidences of periosteal irritation. Being otherwise irremediable, ex- traction is demanded in these not to be foreseen conditions. With the exception of the above comparatively rai’e cases it will be noticed by referring to the list of morbid dental conditions given at page 570 that all the affections there enumerated may result from the Their spread of disease from one dental structure to another, and therefore prosresEive demand treatment for their prevention and limitation. Thus, when ' *''■ the exterior of a tooth is the first part attacked—as it always is in caries and erosion—the aim should be to preserve the pulp from irritation and exposure, and when the pulp is already exposed through the above dis- eases or by fi-acture, the aim should be to prevent its inflammation; while if the vitality of the pulp is past saving, means should be taken to pre- vent the involvement of the periodontuin, and finally, if that tissue is involved, extraction of the tooth may be demanded to relieve pain and to prevent the formation of alveolar abscess with its possible complica- tion of fistulous openings on the face, or the still graver consequences which inflammation external to the tooth may bring about. Three facts in the nature of a tooth aid dental surgery in its con- Peculiarities servative efforts. The first is, that the dense and evascular character in structure of the enamel and dentine allows a diseased portion of them to be removed and the remainder to be preserved by friction, or by a filling conservation, inserted in the place of the removed portion. The second favouring fact is the continued presence on the surface of the pulp of the odontoblast layer of cells, ready to form secondary dentine over the pulp and thus shield it, if they are stimulated to re- newed action by irritation of the primary dentine. And thirdly, the small calibre of the root canal in a perfected tooth, and the minuteness of the aperture that remains at the end of the root for the passage of the vessels and nerves, cause the pulp to be so com- paratively isolated, that, when diseased, it can with safety be destroyed