570 DENTAL SURGERY, Diiignosis. Treatment. Dcntai pathology. Morbid conditions which canse irritation of dental nerves. Otto Weber) is generally present when the root of a tooth originates the naisehief by penetrating tbe cavity and when an alveolar abscess extends into it, while cysts formed on a root, and dentigerous cysts expand into the cavity in this manner and may afterwards suppurate. The history of these cases may throw light upon their nature, while a careful examination of the mouth should be made to decide whether the due number of permanent teeth have been erupted, and as to the existence of disease in any tooth in the neighbourhood of the tumour. An exploratory puncture or opening should be made in any case that may have a dental origin, before any serious operation is undertaken for the extirpation of the disease. For treatment it will here suffice to say that the complete removal of any tooth or dental formation involved is demanded, and that for the remaining treatment the ordinary rules of surgery apply. Diseases of the Teeth. The largeness of the nerve supply to the dental pulp and periodontal membrane, and the liability to irritation and inflammation to which- these confined vascular structures are subject, give an importance to diseases of the teeth which they would not otherwise possess; the pain, direct or reflex, which nearly always attends the involvement by disease of these dental vascular structures, and the serious local lesions which may follow their suppurative inflammation, often cause the mere destruction of the tooth as an organ of mastication to be a matter of secondary importance, although in itself sufficiently regretable. Bearing in mind the description of a tooth given at page 557, it will be understood how the maintenance of a tooth in its usefulness depends on the integrity of its component structures, and how it happens that the pulp and alveolo-dental membrane, which, in a condition of health, are tissues simply subsidiary to the nutrition of the hard structures around them, become—when the tooth is attacked by disease—the parts which have especially to be protected from invasion. The morbid conditions which may produce irritation of the dental nerves may with advantage be grouped in two divisions. The first division, including those which cause irritation of the nerves supplied to the pulpwdth their continuation into thedentine, consists of— (a) Exposure to irritation of sensitive dentine, through loss of enamel resulting from Caries, Erosion, or Fracture. (h) Irritation and chronic or localised inflammation of the pulp when deprived of its protective covering of dentine through the more extended action of the destructive agencies named under (a). (c) General inflammation of the pulp, following sooner or later on the previous conditions, and resulting in its sphacelus. (d) Irritation of the pulp through the presence of irregular formations of seeondary dentine in the pulp chamber. The second division, including the morbid conditions that cause irri- tation of the nerves supplied to the alveolo-dental membrane and to the dental nerves external to the tooth, consists of— (a) Dental Periostitis, i. e. inflammation (plastic or suppurative) of the periodontal membrane. This results by far most commonly from inflammation and sphacelus of the dental pulp ; it may be idiopathic, may be produced by irritation of the ])eriodontum at the neok of the tooth where it meets the gum, may be set up by exostosis, and occa-