DENTAL SURGERY. 5G2 Supernumer- ury teeth possible ciiuse of deutnl tumours. Fusion of teeth within common capsule. Dilaceration. Dentigerous cysts. Nature of. Dentigerous cyst of odontoplaslic period. Antral involvement. origin is of course of tlie higlie.st imporbance, as it will avert an unne- cessarily severe operation for their removal. In the case of tumours and cysts of the jaws the undue absence of any tooth will point to the probability of their dental origin, but the possibility of such origin would not be excluded if the normal number of teeth were present, as a supernumerary tooth may originate either an odontome or a denti- gerous cyst. A glance at the close packing of teeth in a child’s jaw, as shown in Fig. 241, will show the strong probability of a dental origin for tumours and cysts of the jaws in young subjects, especially when it is remem- bered that each of the forty-eight teeth to be seen in such jaws at one time, is, or has been, the centre of developmental activity; the likeli- hood also that tumours may cause involvement or displacement of neighbouring teeth will be readily realised. Gemination, or the union of contiguous teeth, due to the fusion of their pulps, is met with occasionally in both the temporary and per- manent sets. Normal teeth may be thus joined, or normal and super- numerary. Dilaceration, or the abrupt change in the direction of the first and last formed portions of a tooth, sometimes occurs, and is due to a shifting of the forming tooth on its base. Dentigerous Cysts are cysts formed by the accumulation of fluid within the dental capsule at some period of the tooth’s development, or around a fully developed tooth which has not erupted. They may therefore advantageously be classified, like odontomes, according to the point to which the tooth’s development has proceeded, when the change occurs which eventuates in their formation. When fully developed, a dentigerous cyst usually consists of a thick membranous sac, covered in by a thin osseous shell, formed by the ex- pansion of the bone of the jaw. In a case met with by Mr. Fearn one half of the lower jaw was expanded by a cyst which separated its external and internal plates. The cyst wall itself in some instances has been found calcified. The cyst at first usually contains a serous fluid, which may become purulent through the occurrence of inflammation. The uncut tooth (temporary, permanent, or supernumerary) about which the cyst has expauded, may be repi’esented by a small shapeless, calcified mass, if its formation was disturbed in the embryoplastic or earliest odontoplastic periods. This fact was well exemplified by the case of a girl aged 13, who was recently at Guy’s under the care of Mr. Cooper Forster. Here two small irregular masses of dentine and enamel, the representatives of an absent canine and lateral incisor, were contained in two distinct cysts, which caused great protrusion of the anterior wall of the superior maxilla. The enclosed tooth may be attached firmly to the cyst wall, or may be found free within the cyst. A dentigerous cyst, forming in the upper jaw, may expand into and cause distension of the antrum. Professor Baum met with a case of immense dilatation of both antra, one containing a molar, the other a canine. In some cases the tooth crown only, or the crown and part of the root, have been formed prior to the expansion of the capsule by serum, and these may be said to belong to the coronary and radicular periods. In other cases, again, the cyst develops around fully formed impacted teeth, which may be found inverted. In one instance mentioned by