420 ACUPRESSUEE. away in my hand, which did not occur. The case ultimately did well, and no bleeding ensued. Acupressure. On The late Sir James Simpson brought this method of arresting acupressure, haemorrhage before the profession in 1860, and on his authority many resorted to the practice. Drs. Keith and Pirrie, of Aberdeen, have given it their warmest support; indeed, at the present time, in Dr. Pirrie’s hands it is alone employed as a general way of arresting hffiinorrhage. The principle of the practice is very simple, viz., the occlusion of the artery by the temporary pressure of a pin, without Fig. 121. Different modes of applying acupressure. lacerating the vessel or setting up inflammatory and suppurative k action as in the ligature. The pin is removed on the second or third 1 day, according to the size of the artery. The advantages thus* claimed for it are very great, hut experience has not yet decided in * its favour. There are three leading forms of acupressure. I In the first, the artery is directly compressed between the pin, which crosses its free end, and the muscle beneath. (Pig. 121, 1.) J In the second, the same result takes place, the pin being made to b give a half twist through the tissues between its first and second P insertions. (Fig. 121,2.) 'jf In the third, the pin is simply passed beneath the vessel and pressure k applied to the artery by means of a loop of wii’e or silk looped over its s point and made to cross the vessel, the ends of the loop being secured B upon the shaft of the pin. (Fig. 121, 3.) Its value and The £fOod point in acupressure is the absence of any foreign body j drawbacks, for more than a few hours or days. Its disadvantage lies in the fact I that its success depends upon the coagulation of the blood in the » vessel down to the first branch, one of nature’s temporary hsemostatic t processes, and not upon the permanent closure of the coats of the *• vessel. As a consequence it is not so secure as the ligature, or physio- - logically so sound as the practice of torsion. As a general mode of • arresting hemorrhage it seems improbable that it will hold its ground, i- indeed it is but little practised at the present time. As a mode of •< temporarily arresting hemorrhage in certain cases where the ligature ' and torsion are inapplicable, as in wounds of the palm or the sole of ' the foot it is indeed valuable, and particularly also as a me.aus ot > arresting the flow of blood from a leech bite or other bleeding point— -