I KUPTtJEE OP VISCERA. 601 i simple contusion of the abdominal wall, and, in exceptional cases, by ] peritonitis which may terminate fatally, although in the majority where such a result ensues, it is from rupture or lesion of some internal part. A local peritonitis, after an injury, is not, however, to be looked upon i with displeasure, for, as pointed out by Mr. Hilton, the coagulable I lymph which is poured out under these circumstances forms a temporary i splint until the injured structures repair themselves. The inflamma- tory effusion producing a certain degree of rest to the injured struc- i tures, and thus contributing to the work of reparation. What then are the symptoms of an internal abdominal lesion ? How Sisns of can the presence of such be made out ? And what guides are there to the viscus that is wounded ? obscure. To answer these questions satisfactorily much space is needed, more, indeed, than can be well spared in this work; yet helps to diagnosis may he given, and among these, the nature and position of the injury are the best. Where the loins are the part involved, the kidneys are Proximate |: most likely to suffer; where the right hypochondriac region, and the gmdes. ! ribs on that side are fractured, the liver is probably the organ that may j! he injured. On the left aide, the stomach, or, more probably, the spleen; I in the umbilical region, the intestines ; in the pelvic region, the bladder. ! Rupture of the liver usually destroys life by haemorrhage, and in the Ruptured majority of cases within a few hours of the injury, in some, within a few days. Thus out of nine consecutive cases of ruptured liver, five died rapidly, three survived, three, seven, and nine days respectively. There is little doubt, however,that recovery may take place when the Recovery fissure is limited and the case uncomplicated; when these occur they eusue are classed with those of traumatic peritonitis ; when they prove sue- ruptured cessFul their true nature is not revealed. Preps. 1948—1951“ in Guy's liver. I Hosp. Museum, with di'awings, illustrate this truth. When the laceration is extensive, death is always speedily produced Extensive. ( by the shock and hmmorrhage; coldness and general pallor of the whole I body, with a feeble pulse, sighing respiration, and restlessness preceding i the fatal issue. When the laceration is less severe life may he pro- Slight. I longed; and 1 have recorded in another work the case of a man set. 1 45, who, when drunk, fell from a cart, and the wheel was said to have I passed over his head. Intoxicated to an extreme degree, he was j admitted, under Mr. Birkett’s care, into Guy’s Hospital, presenting I no evident symptoms of internal injury indicative of cranial mischief, I beyond slight hsemorrhage beneath the right conjunctiva. He was ( put to bed, soon fell asleep, and, on the following morning, with the ! exception of the hsemorrhage into the orbit, no signs of mischief could I he detected. Rest, however, in the horizontal position, was strictly ! enjoined ; hut to this he would not submit, and, thirty-six hours after f the accident he got up, walked about, and with a sudden pain in his ' side, fell hack, and died. After death, a fissured fracture passing i across the right orbit was found without brain complication and about 1 a pint of blood, in the peritoneal cavity which had evidently escaped f fi’om a severe laceration of the liver; a mass situated in the right lobe the size of a man’s fist having been nearly separated. The right i kidney was also fissured on its surface, and covered with coagulated ; blood. In this case the man clearly died from secondary haemorrhage : the result of the ruptured liver. In rare instances the liver may he crushed partially, and, strange to