TUMOUES. 129 muscles that surround or influence it. Warm or hot applications should he avoided, since it appears they encourage its growth. The most acute PP cancer of the breast I ever saw was one that originated as a chronic infiltration, and was made active by the application of hot fig poultices for a week The gland itself and skin over it to the limit of the application became infiltrated to an extreme degree with cancer, which rapidly broke down, and destroyed life. Moore used to think highly of the local application of the iodide of Iodide of lead and opium ointment applied on lint to the tumour, and he believed “ it had some influence in diminishing and retarding its growth. Some have faith in iodine as a local application; hut I must admit that I have never been able to discover that any of these or other applications had the slightest influence in checking the progress of a cancer, and have consequently discarded them. When pain is present, the hella- Belladonna, donna-extract rubbed down with glycerine into a fluid the consistence of treacle, or of the extract of opium similarly diluted, seems to be a valuable application. An opium or belladonna plaster spread on leather gives comfort and protects the part. The best protective application, however, is cotton wool. When the diagnosis is established, the tumour should he removed. Excision, and the best method doubtless is, that of excision; delay being only justifiable when the general condition of the patient forbids the attempt. To delay is only to increase the risk of a local dissemination of the can- cerous elements, and thus diminish the prospects of a successful result, giving time for the lymphatic glands to become enlarged, when removal of the primary growth becomes of less value; and to increase the chance of some internal or remote organs becoming involved, when operative interference is futile. In removing a cancerous tumour the surgeon should not he too Free removal, sparing of surrounding tissue; but when it is encapsuled there is no necessity for doing more than enucleating the mass. WTien it infiltrates an organ the only correct treatment is its removal, and in removing it care should he taken to cut away all skin that is in any way adherent to its surface, with as much of the surrounding fat as circumstances will allow. M^hen the tumour has been removed, all surrounding parts should be Avoid leaving carefully examined, because it is not uncommon to find small cancerous tubercles in the connective tissue, fascia, or muscular sheaths, which if passed by unheeded would soon increase and give rise to a recurrent growth. It is from these points, indeed, that such recurrent growths probably often arise, and these, by care and observation, the surgeon may often prevent. De Morgan, after excision of a cancerons tumour, washed the wound with a solution of chloride of zinc, twenty grains to an ounce, in order to destroy the cancer germs. The surgeon, too, had better remove all skin, and allow the wound to granulate up, than save integument which is of doubtful integrity for the sake of making an apparently more complete operation. V^en lymphatic glands are Glands to be enlarged and can be removed at the time of operation, they should not removed, he forgotten; and they should be enucleated by the fingers or handle of the scalpel rather than he excised—their capsules ought to he divided and the glands turned out. Cancreous tumours of the tongue, penis, clitoris, labium, neck of the uterus, &c., may be removed by the wire or chain ecraseur, either with VOL. I. 9