590 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Inflammation and Suppuration of the Pharynx Inflammation is met with in the feeble and cachectic subject, and comes on with of pharynx, general and local symptoms not unlike those of quinsey, both affections being often associated. Pain with difficulty in swallowing is the chief local, while fever with constitutional disturbance is the chief general symptom. Abscess of Abscess may be the result of an acute or chronic inflammation of pharynx. the part, and shows itself by some bulging or projection of the mucous covering of the pharynx. It may be so large as to interfere with if not prevent deglutition, or even to impede respiration. I have seen this occur twice in cases of spinal disease. When these conditions exist, the abscess must be opened, the best instrument to use being a straight bistoury protected up to the point by a piece of hnt or strapping. An instrument called a pharyngotome has been devised for the purpose, and answers well, but the bistoury is preferable. Tonics, such as quinine, iron, or the mineral acids, are almost always required in these cases. Steaming the throat gives great comfort, as well as external warm applications. Nutritious food should always be allowed. The surgeon should remember that a post-pharyngeal abscess may be due to disease of the vertebrae or base of tbe skull, but such cases are generally chronic. Tumours Tumours of the pharynx may also give rise to the external appear- of pharynx, ances of a chronic abscess by pressing the mucous membrane forward, and cancerous tumours are very liable to do this. One of the most marked cases of the kind I ever saw turned out to be a syphilitic gum- matous tumour which was so large as to make me suspect its cancerous nature, but, on investigation it proved to be syphilitic, and was cured by ten-grain doses of the iodide of potassium in bark three times a day. The cancerous tumours generally commence in the upper part of the pharynx, and cause obstruction of tbe posterior nares; as they grow downwards they simulate a pharyngeal polypus. Two such cases in voung people have been under my care, and both died. It was a question m both whether the disease was not originally in the tonsil, but it appeared to have originated above the gland. Dysphagia Dysphagia is is merely a symptom, and due to numberless conditions, which cannot only a be treated till the cause is known. To ascertain this is consequently symptom. i^iportant, and should always be done by eliminating every pos- sible cause. It may be that the symptom arises from some want of Its causes power in the pharyngeal muscles or from oesophageal ulceration or ob- struction. If the former cause holds, the condition may be due to a paralysis of the muscles of the part from cerebral disease, to hysteria, or to diphtheria—as under all these circumstances there may be a more or less complete loss of power in the act of swallowing—food or fluid passing into the nose or the larynx producing suffocation. This condition