TUMOURS. 110 Intermediate varieties. Examples of the fibrocellular. Generally rare. Always encapsuled. Usually adults. May undergo changes. Myxoma. Characters. Glioma. Treatment of the fibro- ccllular and myxomatous tumours. is composed. The structure of the tumour, says Sir J. Paget, closely re- sembles the embryonic connective tissue, or the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord. Between these two extremes many intermediate varieties are found in practice, the cell or the fibrous elements predomi- nating in different proportions with the viscid mucous secretion. In the myxomata, fat often forms an important element in its structure; glandular elements may also be found, their presence being determined by the position of the growth and the propinquity of a gland. Bone or cartilaginous elements are at times mixed with t& others. The fibrocellular tumours are mostly outgrowths, the different forms of softer polypi and cutaneous pendulous tumours being of this nature. The polypi of the nose are the best specimens of the looser kind of fibrocellular growths, as in consistence they vary from a watery pellucid pendulous outgrowth to a firm, more compact, and fibrous tissue. They are, however, always covered with mucous membrane with its ciliated epithelium. The softer tumours of the antrum are also of the same nature, as are the mucous polypi of the uterus, bladder, and rectum. In the rectum the fibrocellular tissue is inti- mately mixed with the glandular elements of the part. Amongst the fibrocellular outgrowths of the integument those of the male and female genital organs are the commonest. The tropical elephantiasis scroti is of this class. The pedunculated outgrowths of the skin are also of the same kind. Fibrocellular groioths, as deep-seated tumours, are very rare. They do occur, however, in the connective tissue of the body, the inter- muscular spaces of the thigh and arm being the commonest seat. They are always surrounded by a capsule, and, when not confined by unyield- ing parts, are more or less ovoid; at times they are lobed. They possess a smooth outline as well as an elastic feel; some of the softer kinds, indeed, give the idea of fluid. They are tumours of adult life, being rarely met with in children. They increase in size with variable rapidity, the amount of fluid they contain materially affecting this feature. The pendulous fibrocellular outgrowths, mucous or cutaneous, at times swell out and at others contract, while those of the skin appear shrivelled and loosely encapsuled. Those of the genital organs may attain a very large size, some which are on record having weighed as much as forty pounds. At times these tumours inflame, slough, or ulcerate in an indolent but in no way a typical manner. Myxomata are mostly soft, succulent tumours, made up of loose connective tissue, with more or less of their own special tenacious gelatinous secretion. They are not rare about the angle of the jaw, nose, breast, and abdomen. They are met with also in the extremities and in the eye, as well as in the delicate connective tissue of the nervous system, particularly of the brain and also of the nerves. When attacking the brain and nerves such growths are commonly found in the young; Virchow has named them gliomata (Fig. 30), the cells being of a small round or pointed form, embedded in granules and held together by delicate fibres. In some' cases the fibre element approaches the &mer kind of fibro- cellular tumours. . , , Treatment. Excision is the only practice that can be followed; although this' operation need not be performed when the tumour is small and not progressing, especially when it occurs in aged