452 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. Effects of ligature. Treatment immediately after ligature, the seat of ligature may likewise follow, but a complete division of the artery by ulceration need not take place. On that account the latter Fiq. 136. Brasdor’s as practised Anel’s. Hunter’s, by Wardrop. Wardrop’s. Diagram showing the different operations for aneurism. ligature is preferable. When the ligature fails, and death ensues, it is from gangrene of the parts below the seat of disease, or, from secondary hasmorrhage. The former is the more frequent cause of death, and according to Dr. Norris, out of fifty fatal cases of ligature of the femoral artery, twenty-three died of gangrene, and only eight of hsemorrhage. When a ligature is applied to the main artery of a limb, the circula- tion is, for a time, more or less cut off, consequently coldness of the part may ensue, and even gangrene; congestion, however, generally takes place gradually in the extremity from the blood being forced into the collateral vessels, and with this, some increase of temperature may be felt, with hyperaesthesia, a point already noticed in embolic arterial obstruction. Brown-Sequard explains the elevation of tempe- rature that is often observed in a part after the application of a ligature to its main artery, by the paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves that ramify on or in the coats of the vessel; this paralysis producing a corresponding paralysis of the ramifications of the vessels, and, as a consequence, the blood finds its way freely through the collateral branches into the part below the seat of the ligature; this blood stasis producing both the congestion of the ))art as well as the concomitant elevation”of temperature. (‘Archives de Physiologie,’ 1851.) The surgeon consequently should, after the application of a ligature, do what he can to maintain the temperature of the limb, which is best effected by covering it thickly with cotton wool, at the same time keeping the part raised, to encourage the venous circulation. Simple nutritious food should be allowed, but stimulants only with great_ caution, and merely enough to help digestion and maintain the force'