115 TUMOURS. labial aud parotid glandular tumours portions of cartilage or bone may May contain be mixed with the glandular structure; and sometimes—chiefly in the mamma—the glandular tumours appear as if formed wholly or in part of clusters of small sessile or pendulous growths, which fill cysts Fig. 23. Adenoma of the breast, illustrating the palhological appearances of adenoid tumours. or partitioned spaces; thus they indicate their relation to the proli- ferous cysts, and suggest that they originated in such cysts. The textures around the tumour are usually quite healthy, altered only by displacement.” These glandular tumours are often single, but Number, at times multiple. Thus in the breast they may be many, and so loosely encapsuled as to move about as in a bag; in the lips they are commonly numerous; while lymphatic glandular tumours are almost always multiple. They grow with very variable rapidity, at Growth, times more slowly, at others with great rapidity. They require removal simply from the inconvenience caused by their mechanical pressure. To remove them it is only necessary to divide their capsule aud the Treatment, soft parts covering them in aud to enucleate them. This need not, how- ever, be done under all circumstances, for these glandular tumours not only cease to grow but at times disappear; thus operative interference should only be entertained when the growths are large or increasing, or very painful. Medicine does not appear to have any influence in checking their grow'th. iThe glandular tumours of special regions will receive notice in the different chapters devoted to their consideration. Vascular and erectile tumours are considered in Chapter X. Papillary growths, or tumours, require a brief notice. They are found Papillary I in the outside or inside skin, and in the mucous membrane, whileinstances fumours. B are on record where they were found on serous membranes. On the li skin they occur as warts, cauliflower or sessile, and as condylomata. Warts, &c. • Some of the horny skin growths are of this nature. They occur in the '• mucous membranes as villous growths, and I have seen them on the • hard and soft palate,tongue, rectum, and bladder. The two latter regions t are indeed common seats of the affection. They seem to be a mere 1 delicate outgrowth of subcutaneous or submucous tissue, with their natural epithelial covering, at times involving the gland structure of the part. They are usually innocent, though occasionally cancerous elements infiltrate the parts.