INGUINAL HERNIA. 675 The “infantile hernia” of Hey, or the “encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis” of Sir A. Cooper, is an acquired hernia,_the hernia gradually fushing the tissues closing the orifice of the vaginal process of peritoneum downwards into the open canal, the protruded parts together with the sac being contained in the tunica vaginalis testis, and the true sac being within that which might have been the con- genital (Fig. 264). The hoicr-glass contraction of a scrotal hernia is always found in the “ congenital form,” and is due, as described by Birkett, to the im- perfect closure of the vaginal sheath above the testicles, where union of its walls normally takes place. Prep. 2368 in Guy’s Museum will explain these cases, also Fig. 263. The acqidred form of inguinal hernia, oblique or direct, is always slow in its formation, the pushing downward of the parietal layer of peritoneum by the protruding viscera being a gradual process, thus forming a marked contrast with the congenital form. In the oblique, it begins as a slight yielding at the internal ring, and, in the direct, at the external, this yielding passing into a “ pouching,” till at last the pouch may reach and even fill the scrotum. In the early stage, this yielding may be scarcely perceptible, but to the patient it will give rise to a feeling of weakness and often of pain on any abdominal muscular exertion being made. When a “ pouching,” or according to Malgaigne, a “ pointing ” of the hernia has commenced, any act of coughing or straining will make it visible. When the oblique hernia has filled the inguinal canal, it will appear as an ovoid swelling above Poupart’s ligament {vide Fig. 270), beneath the tendon of the external oblique muscle. When it has passed through the external ring, the long axis of the tumour, and more particularly its neck, will still be in the inguinal canal above and parallel with Poupart’s ligament; but, having escaped from beneath the external oblique muscle, it will appear as a pyriform scrotal tumour of variable size. The testicle will always be found below and distinct from the sac, the cord being behind the tumour. In the direct inguinal form in which the pouching of the hernial sac is directly behind the external ring (Fig. 271), there will be no inguinal neck such as exists in the oblique, the hernia passing directly through the external ring down into the scrotum. This form of hernia has thus a more globular shape than the oblique. When the oblique inguinal is reduced, the surgeon can pass his finger through the external ring along the Inguinal canal upwards and outwards into the internal ring, and thus into the abdominal cavity, although in old hernia?, the two rings are brought closer in apposition than in the more recent. In direct inguinal, the finger having passed the external ring, seems to enter at once into the abdominal cavity, the opening being directly behind the external ring, and, with the finger passed through the neck, the external border of the rectus muscle may be felt on the pubic bones. By these points the diagnosis between the acquired oblique and the direct inguinal can be made out. With respect to the points of difference between the “ congenital” and “ acquired” form of oblique inguinal hernia, a few words are needed, and may be thus epitomised. The congenital form is the hernia of infancy and young adult life, the “ acquired ” that of middle life and Encysted liernia of tunica vaginalis. Hour-glass contraction of scrotal hernia. The acquired form of inguinal hernia a slow act. Bubonocele. Direct inguinal. Diagnosis between oblique and direct hernia. Difference between congenital and acquired forms of oblique inguinal.