423 H^MOEEHAGE AND ITS TEEATMENT. enough to constrict thoroughly, and yet grooved and smooth enough not to lacerate the external coats, while it makes a complete invagination of the inner coats. For operating upon vessels in con- tinuity, as for aneurism, I prefer to place the limb, after constriction, in a relaxed position, so as not to stretch the vessel after being constricted.” f In Fig. 123 the instrument is shown applied to an artery, and in a Fig. 123 (4) a section of the artery, subsequent to its constriction. I have tested this instrument on the living, and have made a large number of experiments on the dead, and find it does all that Dr. Speir , asserts. I believe it to be of value for obstructing arteries in I continuity, as it does for such precisely what torsion does for divided vessels. Other Methods. Astrhgents or styptics are also valuable agents in the arrest of bleed- ing, whei the means previously mentioned are inapplicable, their value agtruigems. ‘ being mich increased when combined With pressure. The perchloride or persulphate of iron, pounded matico, alum in powder or solution, A applied t< a bleeding surface on a pad of lint or dossil of cotton-wool, and bounl on, are the best applications; though tannic acid, lluspini’s styptic, 0’ oil of turpentine, are also serviceable. Before applying any of these,, the bleeding part should be wiped as dry as possible, and all cmgula removed. In uterine surgery, injections of some of these astiingents are much used. In rectal surgery, the bowel may be plugged vith lint or sponge saturated with a styptic, and in epistaxis the nose nay be plugged with the same. Cold is a powerful styptic, cold air often permanently arresting fA even copiois haemorrhage on laying open a wound. A stream of cold i water dircted to a bleeding part, or ice pounded and placed in I bladders o bags, and laid on bleeding wounds, are at times of great assistance. y Cauterixp.tion, although the common mode of arresting bleeding by On A the anciens, is now seldom employed; yet is it a valuable agent in cantenzation. 4 cases wher^ neither torsion, ligature, nor acupressure, is available. In (y spongy tisaes from which blood is oozing, or even in other cases, the Ii hot iron wil often act most beneficially. It may be applied through « iron button or cones brought to a black heat by means of fire, or t through pltinum or porcelain instruments, heated by means of gas or » the galvau; battery. In both the heat should be enough to cause di a dry eschc upon the bleeding part, while care should be exercised <t subsequent^ not to remove this too soon ; indeed, the eschar or scab a should be 1ft for natural processes to throw off. The cautery in no >« case shouldbe too hot, that is, red hot, as it destroys the vessels too 0 much, but aould be of a black heat. 1 Hmmorrhge from the capillaries or small vessels, rarely takes place Capillary to any dangrous extent, unless it occurs in “ bleeders,” or such as hBemorrliage d labour undo the haemorrhagic diathesis. It has always a tendency to # stop by itsrf through the natural haemostatic processes such as have M been descDed. If, however, it be too persistent, the surface of s the wound aould be exposed and cleansed, the stimulus of the air being •I often sufficsnt to excite closure of the vessels. Moderate pressure