FOREIGN BODIES IN STOMACH, ETC. 615 wire that was swallowed hy a female lunatic, ajt. 56, on March 10th, Digdiarged 1873. The symptoms that followed were so slight, that some exterually. douhts as to the occurrence existed, and it was not till May 15th, two months later, when a swelling was detected in the right of the umbilicus, that the history was credited. The swelling rapidly increased and opened on May 20th, and the point of theirou wire projected. This was withdrawn by Dr. T. B. Dyer, the surgeon of Colney Hatch, and a rapid recovery followed, no single bad symptom making its appearance. My friend Mr. Lund, of Manchester, has likewise recorded a similar case in the ‘ Liverpool and Manchester Med. Surg. Reports’ for 1873. When retained, a foreign body may rest without giving rise to very serious symptoms—a rare result—or set up ulceration which may in its turn give rise to a fatal peritonitis. In the more fortunate, it will be passed on through the canal and dischai'ged. To prove these points, the reader may refer to Mr. Pollock’s article in ‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. ii, where he gives a case in which a lady vomited a gold plate three quarters of an inch long, with two false teeth, after it had been lodged in the oesophagus for nineteen and in the stomach for ninety-seven days. Anotlier case, that of Mr. Taylor’s, of Edin- burgh, in which a patient passed per anum, three days after swallow- ing it, an artificial plate with six teeth an inch and three quarters long. And a third is on record in which a lady passed per anum, six Mny pass per months after she had swallowed it, a plate two and a quarter inches in auum. diameter wish four teeth. A remarkable case of this kind has been recently recorded in the Thirtieth Report of the Commissioners in Lunacy, 1876. A woman ffit. 43 (hav'ng made previously many suicidal attempts), on J uly 31st, 1875, swallowed thirteen screws, each screw consisting of a body 2^ inches long and ^ inch thick, a raised collar nearly f inch in diameter, and a square head; the whole thirteen screws weighing 24 ounces. She was fed on pudding and gruel, morphia was injected subcutaneously to relieve pain, and, after a few days ounce doses of castor oil were given daily. Onthe forty-first day, the first of the screws passed by the bowel, and, by the end of the sixth month, the last came away. The screws in their passtge had lost 4j ounces in weight. This case occurred in the Bristol Asi^lum, under the care of Dr. Thompson. Poland has also re- corded in lis prize essay the case of a lunatic who died from ulceration of the ducdcnum owing to the pressure of a spoon handle that had been swallowed about three months before, with thirty others, besides nails, peblles and pieces of iron. These foreign bodies were extracted from the stomach after death, and weighed in all forty ounces. The most conplcte list of cases of foreign bodies in the digestive canal will be fmnd in the ‘ Union Medicale ’ for November, 1874, by Dr. Mignon. In Gu;’s Museum (Prep. 1800) there is an enlarged and thickened stomach >f a sailor who had swallowed clasp knives. He was mt. 23, May be and in lune, 1799, he swallowed four clasp knives which were rctahied. discharged from the bowels. In March, 1805, he swallowed from fifteen t> twenty more, after which his health became impamed. He vomited ;he handle of one and passed portions of the blades of others, and in liarch, 1809, died in a state of exhaustion. After death one blade was found perforating the colon opposite the kidneys, but without extravaation of foeces, and another was fixed across the rectum, lii