FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 271 of tlie CBrvica-1 vGrtobrsB, and a similar accident to the dorsal spine may cause fracture. In these cases, too, there is always some laceration of the ligaments and crushing of the anterior edges of the bodies of the vertebi-ffi. (Ftde Fig. 81.) A forcible bending backward of the spine may produce a like result, the laminse of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae, under these circumstances, being much broken. Direct violence to the spine in the cervical region may cause dislocation; and in the lower vertebrae it generally causes fracture of the spinous pro- cesses or laminae. Mr. Holmes has recorded in the ‘ Path. Soc. Irans., vol. X, an interesting case of displacement of the last dorsal from the first lumbar vertebra, associated with some slight fracture of the pro- cesses, the result of a direct blow. Fracture of the sternum is not uncommonly associated with injuries to the spine from the forcible bending forward of the head. It was found in four out of fifty-six fatal cases that occurred at Guy’s. Of these fifty-six fatal cases of fracture and dislocation of the Statistics of spine, thirty-six were of the cervical region, eleven being examples 50 cases, of pure dislocation, eighteen of the dorsal, and two of the lumbar; injuries of the cervical being apparently twice as frequent as those of the dorsal region; the greater mobility of the cervical vertebrro and the obliquely horizontal aspect of their articular processes favouring dislocation. lu the thirty-six cervical, the injury was below the third vertebra in S6 cervical, all but three examples. In one of these, it involved the second, third, and fourth vertebraj; in another, the arch of the atlas and spinous pro- cesses of the second and third vertebrae; and, in the third case, the bodies and arches of the third, fourth, and fifth vertebras. In the eighteen dorsal, seven were in the upper and eleven in the ig dorsal, lower halt) the lower part of the cervical and of the dorsal regions being clearly more liable to injury than the upper. When the cord was sufficiently injured in the cases of injury to the cervical region to give rise to paralysis, death generally took place within three days, and, in the majority of instances within two. When it occurred as a result of injury to the dorsal region, suppura- tion of the kidneys, cystitis, or bedsores were the most common causes of death. Of the eleven cases of pure dislocation of the cervical vertebra?, four n cases were between the fourth and fifth ; two between the fifth and sixth ; of pure three between the sixth and seventh; and two between the seventh d'slocafion QT ccrviPuJ cervical and the first dorsal. In none of these was there the smallest trace of fracture. In six, the displacement was so great as to crush the cord. In five, there was no displacement and no marked paralysis as a direct result of the injury, although secondary paralysis appeared subsequently, from stretching or other injury to the cord. In injuries to the cervical region, pure dislocation occurs in thirty per cent, of the cases. Cases of sudden death after a fall from a height upon the vertex are Dislocation I doubtless, often due to a fracture or dislocation of the cervical spine, of upper I It may be a fracture of the processus dentatus of the axis; a lacera- cervical. ' tion of the transverse ligament binding it in position; or a fracture i of the atlas allowing the head to slip forward. Dislocation of the occipital bone from the atlas has been described; it is, however, very I rare. I