205 fkactukes of the skull. Injuries to the occiput are commonly followed by longitudinal fracture of the base, involving both the posterior and middle fossae. Injuries to the temporal region or about the ear are followed by fracture of the petrous bone and the middle fossa; they are always Variety of fracture determined by site of the blow. serious. , But it is rare in diffused injuries to the head to find one fossa alone involved, fissures generally passing through two fossae, extending from the vault or part struck. The evidence afforded by my notes of two hundred cases of fatal head injuries clearly establish these points which have also been experi- mentally proved by Dr. Aran. “ In precipitating a large number of bodies from various heights on to the head, Dr. Aran found that the part of the vault which first struck the ground gave, ns it were, the key to the fracture which would take place at the base. Similar results were also obtained when diffused blows were dealt upon different parts of the skull by means of a large and heavy hammer. In the front part of the vault injuries thus produced led to a fracture of the anterior fossa; in the middle part of the vault they led to a fracture of the middle fossa; and at the back of the head to a fracture of the posterior fossa. In no single instance was a fracture detected at the base without a line of frac- ture in the corresponding part of the vault. The truth of this has been proved by an analysis which I made of all the cases of fractured base of the skull admitted into St. George’s Hospital during a period of ten years.” (Prescott Hewett.) My own observations go entirely to prove the correctness of these views. The middle fossa is the one, however, most frequently involved. Compound fractures of the skull are, as a rule, local fractures. They are generally the result of a concentrated blow upon the part, the force employed having been expended in producing the local injury. They are, consequently, often starred or comminuted and depressed fractures. When the brain is involved in the injury, it is chiefly beneath the seat of fracture; it is rarely shaken or concussed as much as it is in simple fractures the result of a diffused blow. The dangers attending a compound fracture do not, therefore, arise so much from the direct injury to the brain as fi-om secondary intra- cranial inflammation, the direct result of irritation of the dura mater by the depressed or comminuted bone; the dura mater being fre- quently punctured or torn by the depressed bone, and in all cases irri- tated. These facts have an important bearing on practice, encouraging the surgeon to remove the depressed and irritating portions of bone which have such an injurious influence on the progress of the case. When the brain is injured by the accident, the danger is far greater. Dr. Aran’s experiments. Compound fracture often followed by secondary brain inflam- mation. THE DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTUEE OF THE SKULL. The best guide to the diagnosis of a fracture of the skull is, doubtless, the nature of the injury. There are no special symptoms by which a fissure of the vault, uncomplicated with a wound, can be recognised. Extensive fractures of this kind are constantly found upon the post-mortem table where no suspicion of their presence was entertained during life. When a wound complicates the case, a fracture can usually be made out, as the broken part