572 DENTAL SURGERY, In obscure cases of pain the presence or absence of circumseribed periodontitis and of irritation due to exostosis may be diagnosed by pressing the crown of the tooth in different directions so as to tilt the end of the root against the socket; the biting of something hard with one tooth after another may also be adopted as a means of finding out if irritation of this obscure nature is present in a root. Reflex Nerve Affections due to Dental Irritation. The nerves of the second and third divisions of the fifth are more liable than any others to reflex affections due to dental irritation. Next to the several branches of the Trigeminus, the nerves of the Cervical and Brachial plexuses are most often involved. Neuralgia. Neuralgia.—The following are the most common sites for the mani- festation of reflex pain. (a) Another tooth to the one in fault, frequently the one that an- tagonises it in the opposite jaw, and occasionally a tooth in front of the one irritated (thus, an innocent bicuspid may ache when the wisdom tooth is at fault). Hemicrania. (b) The side of the head with the focus of pain near the parietal eminence, due to irritation of a tooth (generally an upper back one) of the same side; this is the source of many cases of unilateral headache. (e) The eyebrow with the focus of pain at the supra-orbital notch, and the cheek with the focus of pain at the infra-orbital notch, the irritation in these cases being located in the upper teeth. (d) From irritation of the back lower teeth there may result ear- ache, and pain extending over the temple, and also pain passing down the neck. Pain over the upper cervical vertebra appears generally to come on secondarily to the above-mentioned neuralgia. More remote Nervous Affections. List of sympathetic nerve affections due to dental irritation. Pain, to quote the words of Mr. Salter, is only one of the pheno- mena of reflex dental nerve irritation. There may be produced mus- cular spasm and muscular paralysis, paralysis of some of the nerves of special sense, perverted nutrition. In these pages an enumeration of some of these affections can only be made, and the reader is re- ferred for details of cases to the work on ‘ Dental Pathology and Surgery,’ by the above-named author, and to the second edition of ‘ Tomes’ Dental Surgery.’ The following seeondary and remote nervous affections may arise from irritation in the teeth, and be curable by the removal of the exciting cause: Convulsions, &c., resulting from irritation in teething. Epileptiform seizures. In these cases, when an uneasy sensation is felt in the mouth previous to the attack, the best results may be hoped for from stopping or extraction, as the case may demand. Delirium from retarded eruption of wisdom teeth.- Firm closure of the mouth through chronic spasm of the masseter muscle is a frequent complication of irritation in or about the lower back teeth. Wry neek. Pain in the course of the cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus.