TETANtrS. 244 Spinal muscles, terms used. Respiratory muscles. Propp'ess of disease. Absence of fever. Intellect perfect. Diagnosis. From strychnine poisoning. As the disease progresses the muscular system of the body generally will be more or less affected, and, in different cases, different groups of muscles will be involved. Those of the back are the most frequently attacked, and their contraction may be so powerful as to cause an arching backwards of the frame, producing what is known as opisthotonos. In rare cases, the body is bent laterally or forwards, the terms pleurosthotonos and emprosthotonos being respectively applied to such conditions. The muscles of respiration are, as a rule, affected early in acute cases, and the chief danger to life consists in the severity of the spasms which attack them. When severe, the first spasm may be fatal, and may occur at an early or at a remote period of the affection. In a case nnder my care, of severe traumatic tet.anus, all the symptoms were disappearing, and recovery was confidently expected; when, on the tenth day of the disease, the first spasm of the laryngeal muscles took place, which destroyed life. When the jaw is unlocked by a spasm of the depressor muscles, the tongue is sometimes suddenly shot out from between the teeth, and often wounded. As the disease advances the jaws become completely fixed, and de- glutition is then impossible. The spasms of the muscles of the frame become more intense aud frequent, and the powers of the patient rapidly decline. The pulse, which was rapid, becomes more feeble, while the expression of the countenance betokens agony of the body and despair of the mind. The slightest manipulation or movement of the patient sets up a fresh spasm, and any emotion may do the same. The skin becomes bathed with a cold sweat, and, if death is not caused by suffocation, exhaustion soon puts an end to suffering. There is rarely any fever during the whole course of the disease, the bowels are always costive, the stools offensive, and the urine, as a rule, natural. The intellectual faculties of the patient almost always remain unim- paired throughout, while the senses are morbidly acute. Anything like delirium is rarely seen. Should the case tend towards recovery, the spasms will become milder in character, and recur at longer intervals till they disappear. It should he remembered^ hoioever, that, as long as the slightest evi- dence of disease exists, a sudden spasm of the glottis may at any time destroy life. Diagnosis.—This should not be a difficult task, and in every in- stance of lock-jaw, the possibility of its being the commencement of tetanus ought to be entertained. Local irritations, however, such as have been previously alluded to, only produce a locking of the jaw more or less complete, and are never accompanied by uncontrollable spasm, as is the case in tetanus. To diagnose between tetanus and poisoning by strychnine may he difficult, the symptoms of both being very similar, yet in te- tanus the symptoms are progressive, while in poisoning they appear suddenly in all their severity. In tetanus, muscular rigidity is always present, and aggravated at intervals; in poisoning there are com- plete intervals of relaxation of muscle. In tetanus, too, there is i constant rigidity of the muscles of the jaw; in poisoning, the jaw is i