CONCTTSSION OP THE BRAIN AND ITS EFFECTS. 211 other signs of what are termed reaction will make their appearance. Reaction The skin will become warmer and more natural, the shrunken ’**^t®*' and contracted features return to their normal condition, the pulse be more regular and rapid, and moreover vomiting may occur. The appearance of this symptom being generally of moment, and the first result of a more active circulation through the cerebral centres. As the case proceeds and all goes well, the patient rapidly recovers and returns to his natural condition, feeling, perhaps, somewhat heavy and dull for a few days, and indisposed for any bodily and much less for mental, labour. But if, on the other hand, the case goes wrong, the symptoms may either persist or pass into those of compression—com- plete insensibility, coma, and death ; or, the symptoms of reaction may become excessive and run into those of inflammation of the brain or its membranes. In this brief sketch of an ordinary example of concussion or shaking of the brain the symptoms described are of a typical kind, and have been purposely dissociated from those of such complications as are liable to occur either primarily or after the period of reaction has taken place. What change of structure is present in such an injury is, of course, Effects of an open question. In the simplest case the local injury must be slight; concussion in the more severe, there is every probability that some bruising of the train, brain has been produced, while in the worst, laceration of the brain and extravasation of blood will probably have taken place. In what is called concussion of the brain epistaxis is very frequent, and Epistaxis. haemorrhage into the lids of both eyes is not uncommon, though beneath the conjunctiva it is very rarely met with. Hajmorrhage from the ear HremorrliRge directly after the accident is occasionally seen, and I have known it from ear. continue for several hours, the extravasation of blood, however, taking place ill all these cases as a direct result of the accident. Again, in certain cases, a patient, having regained his consciousness. Relapsing relapses into insensibility—relapsing unconsciousness—from which he “"fonscioua- may recover as perfectly as if no relapse had taken place. It would appear as if this condition were produced by the earliest effects of re- action, the vessels yielding too freely to the heart’s pulsations, and thus producing a plethora of the part, which induces a comatose or semi- comatose condition. The following case illustrates these points. , A boy, set. 11, having received a blow upon the head from a falling Case of piece of timber, became perfectly unconscious and quiescent. He re- relnpsing maiued in this state for fifteen minutes, but recovering, he walked nes°wuh''*' home some short distance. He soon began to feel sick and vomited, epiat^'is! I the vomiting being attended with epistaxis. He was then brought to Guy’s, with a cold skin and labouring pulse. He was very slightly con- scious and unable to answer any questions, while his limbs remained in the position in which they were placed. The pupils were dilated, but active. He was left in bed with the head raised, and a cold lotion applied to it. Warmth was also applied to the feet. He gradually recovered, and left the hospital in ten days convalescent. The epistaxis and relapsing unconsciousness iu this case, coming together at the time of reaction, point clearly to the cause. Apin, in children, reaction is not unfrequently attended with con- Reaction i vxdsious, which generally, however, pass away, and leave no mark behind. " hh I Should they appear in an adult, they are symptoms which cause anxiety, as they almost always indicate brain injury and forbode mischief.