175 MOLES, COENS. Venereal warts and others, when extensive, maybe readily destroyed by means of the galvanic cautery, the patient being under chloroform. At times excision is the best practice. In the large masses that are found on the genital organs of women, of venereal origin, nothing but the removal of the whole with the labium can be entertained; w’hen the ^craseur of the galvanic cautery cannot be obtained, the ordinary wire instrument may be used. The hsemorrhage from these venereal warts is generally severe; and the surgeon should never attempt to remove them by excision, when they are extensive, without having at hand some good styptic, such as the solution of the perchloride of iron, matico, alum, dry and in solution, or the cautery in one of its forms. Moles. Using the word in the broad sense to include small spots of dis- On moles, coloured skin, and cutaneous connective tissue tumours with pigment, with or without unnatural growth of hair or skin glands, they are very common; few people being without one or more upon the surface of the body, while many have them in numbers. I have seen a woman studded all over with hairy moles, the hairs having been in some half an inch long and bristly. Moles are generally congenital, but at times put in an appearance later in life; they are rarely of any greater importance beyond the disfigurement they produce; occasionally, however, they de- May be the generate or become the seat of a cancerous disease, the melanotic cancer seat of having frequently its origin in such congenital spots. This clinical fact, which is now fairly recognised, is important, and renders it expedient for the surgeon to excise any mole that has a tendency to grow or to become indurated in middle life; for the melanotic is, as a rule, a soft cancer, and, when it has once appeared, is prone to spread and multiply rapidly. Many of the most virulent forms of multiple cancer the surgeon sees have their origin in moles. Corns. These are thickened cuticle, the result of occasional pressure, whether On corns, on the toes or feet, from tight or hard boots; or on the hands, from the mechanical irritation of tools, &c. It should be remembered that they are the result of occasional, and not constant pressure, the latter causing atrophy and absorption. Not only, wrote Hunter, “ the cuticle thickens, but the parts underneath, and a succulus (bursa) is often formed at the root of the great toe, betw'een the cutis and ligaments of the joint, to guard the ligaments below.” This bursa forms under all corns when the pressure is not removed, in all old and neglected cases. A corn, when newly formed, can, by maceration, be elevated from its position as thickened cuticle only, the cutis being unaffected; but in old corns the cutis appears to atrophy, and the pa- pilla; to disappear. Such corns, writes Mr. T. Smith (‘ Holmes’s Syst.,’ vol. v), “ may be found based upon the fibrous tissue of the sheaths of the extensor tendons of the toes, all intermediate structures having been absorbed.” When a bursa has formed it may inflame or suppurate, and give rise to troublesome conditions, such as will be described under “ bunion.” A corn is called “ soft” when it forms between the toes. It is far Soft and hard more painful and sensitive than the “ hard;” it grows also more corns- rapidly, probably owing to its greater moisture. Tbeatment,—Remove the cause and the disease will disappear. Treatment of corns.