ON INFLAMMATION. 14 Inflamma- tory fever. Symptoms, example, compound fracture. Causes. the redness and the swelling are, as a rule, hut slight, since the pecu- liarities of the part affected prevent their being manifested; hut the pain will probably be severe, for the tension of the tissues, and the pressure upon the nerves of the part will, under such circumstances, be necessarily great. When the inflammation is acute or rapid, all these symptoms mani- fest themselves with great rapidity, and the results of the action are quickly shown; when it is slow or chronic, they are less clearly marked. With these local symptoms of inflammation there will always be associated some disturbance of the function of the inflamed 'part, or probably its arrest; and what is of equal importance, some constitu- tional disturbance, which is known as inflammatory fever. This fever may manifest itself in all degrees of severity, its intensity depending much upon the character of the inflammation and its seat. When a local affection is acute, or of a sthenic nature, the constitutional disturbance will be severe; when chronic it will probably be mild; and when asthenic it will be marked by great depression. It may show itself, therefore, only as a slight febrile state, or it may be marked by the severest symptoms. The following description may be accepted as a type of the affection. I have taken it from Simon’s masterly article in Holmes’s ‘ System of Surgery,’ 2nd edition, vol. i, p. 21: “ Taking, for instance, a case of severe compound fracture, without much hmmorrhage, in a person otherwise sound and strong, we find that, before twenty-four hours have elapsed from the time of injury, his general system begins to be thus afl'ected. He feels hot, or alter- nately very hot and chilly. His skin and lips and mouth are dry. He passes mine in less quantity, but of a higher colour, than usual. H is pulse is quickened. A sense of general disorder gains upon him. He becomes restless and intolerant of disturbance. Signs of drought in- crease with him. His urine becomes scantier and more coloured. His skin feels hotter to the Surgeon’s hand, and his pulse, whether full or hard, is quicker and stronger than before. He craves more and more for water. His face has a flushed, anxious look. He is thoroughly uncomfortable; for the most part feeling distressingly hot, but at irregular intervals feeling touches of chilliness—sometimes even of such cold that he shivers with it. His sleep is troubled and unrefreshing; or, as night comes on, he gets delirious. His tongue, besides being dry, is furred. If his bowels act (which commonly they are inapt to do without laxatives) the excretions are morbidly offensive. Gradually these symptoms give way; in proportion as the injured limb ceases to be tense, and passes into suppuration, the skin and mouth become moist again; the excretions lose their concentrated character; the hard pulse softens, and the heart’s action becomes quiet; the nervous system is no longer restless; the look of trouble passes from the countenance, and the patient can again take solid food.” There can be little doubt that these symptoms are clearly due to an increase in the temperature of the blood, and that their severity is measured by it. This is, indeed, as Simon has so_aptly expressed it, “ the essential fact of inflammatory fever. It is to this fact that the familiar language of feverishness bears witness,—the thirst, the scanty urine, the heat, and the shivering, the troubled brain, the excited circulation. As the blood gets hotter and hotter, more and more do these symptoms