VOL. I. 1 THE PEACTICE OP SUKGEEY. INTBODUOTORT CHAPTER. Sttegeex is of a twofold nature. It is a science and also an art—a department that requires to be known and another to be practised. The science embraces a knowledge of the character, the causes, and the effects of disease and injury, and also of the processes by which they are best repaired j the art, the treatment of diseases or injuries as they present themselves. The latter, however, in order to be successful, must be based upon science, and science must be supported by obser- vation, at the bedside, where the phenomena of disease must be studied, and the symptoms recognised as well as duly weighed; and also in the post-mortem room, where the effects are to be traced. The great object of the student, therefore, should be clinical and pathological investigation, the study of the living and the dead. It is by this alone he can hope to acquire a solid basis on which to ground his practice. The external features of a local disease may appear the same to the skilled and student as to the most accomplished practitioner j whereas the pheno- unskilled ob- mena of disease are often perceptible to the surgeon alone—the acquired art of observation and the unconscious influence of experience giving to the mind of the one a power of recognition and interpre- tation which is denied to others. It is io the acquisition of this power, therefore, that the student should devote his energies, and to this end cultivate the art of observation, for by it he will not only gain the power of seeing correctly, but also of interpreting the meaning of what he sees, and will thereby acquire a diagnostic acumen which cannot otherwise be obtiiined. It is now necessary to consider by what method a correct opinion can be formed in any given instance; how sources of fallacy are best eliminated and a good diagnosis established, for it cannot be too forcibly impressed upon a student’s mind that the treatment of a case Ou diagnosis, will not be successful unless based on a clear understanding of its wants, and that these can never be duly appreciated where a coirect diagnosis of its nature has not been made. The mind of the surgeon should invariably be judicial, and possess nothing of the advocate, it should be so regulated as to be able to put aside all prejudices and preconceived ideas, suppress the advocacy of all unsupported theories and hypotheses, accept clinical phenomena as they are observed, and arrive at a conclusion cautiously and clearly alter d\ily balancing the facts of the case, and carefully weighing the possibilities and probabilities of its nature.