CONTUSIONS. 142 Contusion. Ecchymosis. Diagnosis from |)ui'pura, &c. SUEGERY OF THE CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER lY. CONTUSIONS. A “contusion” is caused by a blow from a blunt instrument, and is uncomplicated with any solution of continuity of the skin. When the blow has been suflScient to produce rupture of the small vessels in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, an “ ecchymosis ” or “ bruise ” is said to exist: u^hen it so injures the deeper tissues as to cause effusion of blood from rupture of some of the larger vessels, “ extravasation of blood” is said to be present. Pain, swelling, and bruising are the three symptoms that consecu- tively follow a blow. In mild cases, however, the last need not necessarily follow. An " ecchymosis ” is an effusion of blood into the skin and subcu- taneous tissue, and it shows itself within a few minutes or hours of the injury, according to the force employed and depth of tissue injured, as a livid red, deep blue, or black patch, which in the course of twelve or eighteen hours becomes larger and lighter at its margins. About the third day it assumes a violet tint, on the fifth an olive brown, on the sixth a green, on the seventh or eighth it has a yellow aspect, and this fading into a lemon tint then disappears altogether. An ordinary hruise generally runs through all these stages in about two weeks, the rapidity of the process depending much upon the amount of hlood effused and the reparative power of the patient. When no blood has been effused into the skin, but “ extravasation ” taken place in the deeper parts beneath a dense fascia, the discoloration of the integu- ments may not appear for three or four days, while in some cases where the blood has made its way between the tissues, and reached the skin away from the seat of injury, the “ ecchymosis ” will be at some distance from'the spot at which the injury was received; and when much effused blood exists, the swelling will he great. On making a section of a bruised part, the skin will be found throughout its thickness infiltrated with blood, and will feel firmer and thicker than natural. These points are sufficient to indicate the fact that the bruise had been received during life •, for a blow applied to a body after death will never cause such general effusion of blood into the cutis, nor such an increase of firmness in the skin, while the effusion of hlood that takes place will be in small quantities and venous, and beneath or upon, not in, the cutis. Neither purpuric patches nor those of “ erythema nodosum ” ought to be mistaken for bruises. The general diffusion of the spots over the body in the one case, and the history and general aspect of the other affection, should prevent the error. It should be remembered, how- ever, that in purpuric patients and in “ bleeders ” a slight blow or pinch may he followed by a severe bruise. A slight contusion may only he followed by some local pain and swelling, the swelling becoming red, and then disappearing. The