SALIVARY FISTULA. 519 Fig. 192. I^p'iisize Treatment. This affection can usually be easily recognised on the application of Diagnosis, the finger beneath the tongue, the calculus, as a rule, holding a superficial position. On feeling the stone, the surgeon may often with his nail tear it out of its bed. I have removed several by this plan when not larger than hemp-seeds. When larger, the best plan is incision, the surgeon being careful to cut through the duct where it seems to be thinnest, and scoop the calculus out of its bed by means of a director or bent probe. These calculi may attain considerable dimensims, even one inch long. On one occasion, I broke a calculus to pieces, in attempting to remove it from the centre of a suppurating sublingual gland of a man, set 42, who had had evidence of its presence for years. He came to me with the parts hard as well as ulcerating, having been told he had a cancer, and a rapid reccvery followed its removal. Occasionally after the remonl of a calculus from a salivary duct a stricture Size of calculus. Salivary calcu- lus, weighing 48 grains. Stricture of results, wien the gland under stimulus may iuflame and be the source of trouble. .Afree division of the duct is then the right treatment to adopt. Salivary Fistula. Salivary fistula. When Seno’s duct, the duct of the parotid gland, has been obstructed near its orfice in the mouth, or has been opened by a wound or ulcera- tion, a saliury fistula may take place, that is, the saliva, instead of being poured intcthe mouth, will escape upon the cheek. When this affection originates u some obstruction to the duct itself, it will commence as a soft Actuating swelling in the cheek caused by retained salivary secretion; nd, after a time, usually when the duct has acquired about the size of lalf a waluut, the swelling will ulcerate through the skin, and clear saiva or saliva mixed with pus will escape. If this swelling be opened the time result will ensue, and after this, the cavity may con- tract, but tb fistula will remain. The only uccessful treatment of this affection is, to establish a free Treatment, opening iut the mouth from the oral end of the duct, which may be effected'by passing a fine probe into the fistula through the duct I into the moth. When this can be accomplished through the natural I opening all he better, but it is not a matter of much importance, as j artificial opciug near the oral orifice of the duct wdll answer every I purpose. Tj probe should be armed with a piece of thick silk, or « three or fou threads of fine silk, and drawn through the mouth, the ends hangiinfrom the cheek and those from the mouth being tied to- I gether, the hole acting as a seton to establish an artificial fistulous communicath with the mouth. This object will probably be secured in about a vek or ten days, when the seton may be removed. The fistula in thcheek will then probably contract and close of itself; j but if this oes not take place the edges of the fistula may he I cauterised bjthe galvanic, gas, or actual cautery, and thus cicatri- i sation be enmraged. The operation may be repeated if required. * A plastic opation may be attempted when these means fail. I have knoa ‘parotid salivary fistula follow upon the suppuration of Cen-ical : the gland afr fever in three cases; the orifice in all being small j and placed bind the angle of the jaw. In none of these was it