CANCEROUS TUMOURS. 119 cancer, the implication of neighbouring tissues and secondary glandular enlargements being the chief features. A cancerous tumour has therefore these characteristics:— 1. The peculiar power of infiltrating every tissue as it encroaches Summarj'. upon it. 2. It spreads to the lymphatic glands of the neighbourhood through the absorbents. 3. It affects the body generally through the vascular system, thus giving rise to secondary deposits, that is to say, to the develop- ment of similar growths in the viscera or remote parts, the lungs and liver being particularly prone to its attack. 4. It is liable to recur after removal. Caucerous tumours have been variously described by authors; the Varieties of hard, as scirrhous or fibrous; the soft, as medullary; the open, bleeding, . cancer, as “fungus hmmatodes; “the black, as melanotic; skin^^^ ^ \ and allied cancers, as epithelial; and bone cancers, as osteoid. All have, however, the four special peculiarities that have been , already described as characterising the disease. In these pages cancers will be treated of as scirrhous, medullary, I melanotic, epithelial, and osteoid. Scirrhous cancer is the most common. It is the usual form found in Scirrhous I the female breast, and is seen in the testicle, tonsil, skin, bone, eye, I rectum, or any tissue. It is the hard or fibrous species denominated i “ carcinoma fibrosum.” When attacking a tissue either by infiltration Mode of I (the most usual method) or deposition, it gradually encroaches upon the i tissue; and when this is soft it causes its contraction as in the breast, i The disease spreads outward, and soon takes possession of neigbbour- ( iiig structures by infiltrating them. In this way it becomes gradually i less movable, and at last fixed. No structures resist its influence; fat. No structures 3 skin, muscles, and bones becoming filled with cancerous elements as the resist, il disease progresses. It is said “ to increase most on the side of the t chief arterial supply, and in that towards which by lymphatics and ( veins its constituent fluids most easily filter.” (Moore.) Thus the lymphatic glands become enlarged, and these in their turn Glnnds L may press upon nerves, causing pain, or upon veins, producing '“''olvcd. ] oedema. But cancers have not the power of living like innocent ;i tumours, but are apt to degenerate and die; and thus, after a time, a u cancerous tumour may soften down in its centre and burst, or die as a sloughing of il whole and slough out, or its surface may ulcerate. But, whatever the tumour. [( happens, the disease still spreads in the neighbouring parts; indeed, Ulceration. J after the sloughing of a cancerous tumour, this spreading action in the J bed from which it has been enucleated seems to be more rapid. Thus, i the death of one part of a tumour is seen with the rapid increase of >1 another part, and in this manner the disease goes on encroaching upon Termination. •I and infiltrating and destroying all tissues in their turn, causing death } either by exhaustion, hasmorrhage, or some internal complication. In some instances of cancer, the integument over or about the When skin is II tumour, before ulceration occurs, becomes infiltrated with small shot-like infiltrateU. h tubercles; such a tubercle in its early stage feels to the finger like a a foreign body introduced into the cutis) and as this grows it appears as a distinct skin tubercle. No clinical symptom is more characteristic of ti cancer than the presence of these skin tubercles. In other instances the whole integument becomes cedematous and a