433 DISEASES OF THE ARTERIES. These remarks apply to embolism of the larger branches of the I pulmonary arteries, which never give rise to further changes in the lungs, and the patient dies from asphyxia. . If the smaller branches, however, become plugged, then arise those secondary infarcta already mentioned, and, in the case of septic embolism, lobular pneumonia of pyminia and gangrene of the lung. Dr. Wilks has also shown (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870) that, as in Arterial 1 phlebitis, morbid matters may be taken up by a vein and carried into P)'®™*®- I the circulation through the right side of the heart, thereby giving rise to wenouspycBmia, so disintegrated fibrin of the blood may be carried into ithe arterial system from the left side of the heart, and give rise to arterial pycemia. Febrile symptoms with joint-pains and rigors, associated with aortic and mitral bruit, ought to excite suspicion of this latter 'afi'ection; but when the liver or spleen is found enlarged, the diagnosis ;is confirmed. He also points out how this occurs as a secondary i fever of the nature of pymmia, after scarlatina, which is often fol- dowed by joint-pains, and not uufrequeutly by endocarditis. In con- ifirmatiou of these views I may mention that it has twice fallen to my I lot, in the case of female patients, aged respectively fifteen and twenty (^years, to amputate a leg for gangrene, the result of occluded femoral yartery after scarlet fever. In neither of these cases had any vessel to be secured, while in both a good result rapidly ensued. Pathology.—The changes which take place when an artery becomes plugged, diflter according to the size of the affected vessel. If it be a terminal vessel, the immediate result is congestion of the vascular area concerned, with subsequent limmorrhage and atrophy of the tissue. (The various stages may be studied with great precision by the ophthal- moscope in occasional cases of embolism of the arteria centralis retinm. It is unnecessary to discuss whether the process is due to vasomotor paralysis or alteration of blood pressure, since it is of pathological rather than of surgical interest, and the questions involved are fully stated in all pathological works. We shall, therefore, only remark further that embolism of the small vessels is important or otherwise, according as the source from whence the plug is derived is healthy or not. If the clot be septic, then the resulting infection will probably lead to an abscess, and hence the probable connection of abscesses in the pelvis with those in other parts after labour, or after operations in the viscera or connective tissue of the body. Biit embolism of the medium size and larger arteries is followed by changes of the very greatest moment in the walls of the affected vessels. Unfortunately they have, up to the present time, not been fully worked out as regards embolism, though we can obtain considerable aid towards understanding what ..akes place by availing ourselves of the experiments which have oeen made for us by the ligature of vessels. When an artery of illy size becomes closed by an embolism, the canal may of course be gradually restored by the disintegration and washing away of the plug; if not, the presence of the clot acts as an irritant, inflammation 8 set up, and the clot becomes adherent to the wall of the vessel. It -s a disputed point whether the next stage is one of organization and /ascularisation of the clot, or of absorption of the clot by vascular granulations which spring up from the wall of the vessel. Weber lolds the former, but Cornil and Ranvier the latter view. This lifference, however, does not matter, as all that is important VOL. I. oQ