338 ATROPHY OF OPTIC NERVE, Treatment. Optic neuritis. Choked disc. Treatment. Atrophy of optic nerves. Treatment.—Little can be done to remedy displacement of the retina, but an attempt should be made to procure absorption of the fluid by the administration of such drugs as iodide of potassium and mercury, and by the application of blisters to the temple. If the dis- placement occur in connection with myopia the anomaly of refraction should be carefully neutralized by suitable glasses, and in all cases rest should be Insured to the eyes, so as to prevent as much as possible further detachment. Inflammation of the optic disc (optic neuritis, neuro-retinitis) occnrs as the result of irritation of the trunk of the nerve in some part of its course external to the eyeball, the inflammatory change extending downwards along the nerve and finally affecting its intra-ocular por- tion, hence it is sometimes described as “ descending neuritis.” The ophthalmoscope shows a reddish-grey turbidity of the disc and the surrounding zone of retina, accompanied by swelling of the parts. The retinal veins are engorged, but their visible number is not increased; the arteries are thinner than usual, and all the vessels are more or less shrouded and concealed from view in the opaque portion of retina and upon the nerve surface. Numerous small haemorrhages may occur upon the disc and around it. Vision is always considerably affected in O'ptic neuritis. Ischaemia of the disc (choked disc).—Choking of the optic disc is met with in a large majority of cases of cerebral tumour or other affections within the cranium which cause obstruction to the return of venous blood from the eyeball. It is frequently confounded with optic neuritis, from which, however, it differs in some essential parti- culars. In choked disc the intra-ocular portion of the nerve alone is affected. The ophthalmoscope shows great swelling and an intense red colour of the disc, its outline being entirely lost; there is, how- ever, but slight swelling or opacity of the sm’rounding retina; small haemorrhages are frequently seen on the nerve surface. The retinal veins are enormously distended, their course extremely tortuous, and they may be varicose; their visible number is also considerably increased. The arteries are thinner than natural or of normal calibre; none of the vessels are shrouded and concealed from view, as in neuritis. In by far the greater number of cases of ischaemia of the disc vision is unaffected. Ischaemia may go on to neuritis. Generally speaking, optic neuritis commencing as such may be looked upon as indicative of irritation of the nerves in some part of their course. Ischaemia means simply obstruction to the venous circulation, and may result from pressure directly on the main trunks, or from any form of disease whatever which causes over-crowding of the contents of the cranium. Both neuritis and ischaemia are usually bilateral. Treatment.—Optic neuritis and iscbmmia of the disc are of only secondary importance to the disease w'hich gives rise to them ; they are of much greater interest to the physician than to the oculist, as their existence enables him to diagnose cerebral lesion with great certainty. Atrophy of the optic nerve is usually the result of preceding neuritis, when it is called “consecutive atrophy,” but occasionally cases are met with where the atrophy seems to have commenced as such, and