VILLOUS GROWTHS OF THE RECTUM. 717 ! 5 i '1 his finger completely round the walls of the howel, having passed it well into tlie rectum. By doing this, the polypus will be di-agged from its attachment and its pedicle made tense. Sometimes several polypi exist together. I have on one occasion removed three. They Structure, are made up of fibro-cellular tissue, being more or less fibrous accord- ing to the age of the patient; hut in the adult, the fibrous element predominates. When a polypus has been discovered, its removal is the only To be correct practice. In children, when I detect them with the finger, I removed by generally manage to hook them down, and in doing so they often break off. I have never seen any bleeding follow this measure. On several occasions when I have brought tbe growth external to the sphincter, the action of the muscle has broken it away, and in this manner, many cases of polypi are naturally cured. When they do not break off, a ligature may be applied to the pedicle, but it is well to cut off tbe growth after its application beyond the knot. In adults, the ligature should always be employed. On the removal of the disease the symptoms disappear, but when they continue, a second polypus will generally be found. Villous growths are occasionally met with in the rectum as in other Villons parts of the large intestine, and when low down they give rise to violent strain- ing and hajmorrhage. This strainingmay, indeed,gi\ e rise to an intussusception of the bowel, or to prolapsus recti. This was well exemplified in the case of a woman set. 43, whom I had under my care in June, 1867. She had suflered from prolapsus recti after every motion for twenty years, with more or less bleeding, this straining at times being most distressing. When I saw her, the bowel was down for about nine inches; blood was then passing, and the pain was great. I made a careful examination, but failed to find anything. I reduced the prolapsus, and prescribed rest. On my second visit, with the bowel only down a very little, I examined her again, and with my finger could just touch a new growth. With a pair of long forceps I took hold of it and brought it down, finding a splendid speci- men of the villous polypus. I put a ligature round its base at once, and cut off the growth. No single unfavorable symptom had to be recorded subsequently; all her former troubles at once disappearing and a complete recovery ensued. In June, 1870, this woman was still well. The growth is illustrated in Fig. 295, with the microscopical appearances (Fig. 296), and Dr. Moxon’s report. Condylomata are also very common about the anus and are mostly Condylomata. hut not always, syphilitic, the irritation of dirt being probably sufficient to produce them. In children they seem to come from the irritation of worms. growths in Fig. 295. rectum. Villotis polypus of rectum. 1