TUMOTTES. 102 reproduction, and Mr. Moore, in his work on ‘ Rodent Cancer,’ has referred to a case of Mr, De Morgan’s, in which, from a cancerous tumour within the skull, some detached fragments, which had sunk in the fluid of the arachnoid, adhered to the spinal cord and grew. They spare no tissue or organ, but invade one and all, without order or law, in their destructive objectless growth. Eecurrent or All tumours cannot, however, be divided into the innocent and tumours/*' ^ malignant, for there are some of an intermediate kind which|in struc- ture approach the innocent, but in habit the cancerous, as they recur after removal. They have consequently been called recurrent tumours; but, as the habit of recurrence is not the only point in which they ' approach the cancerous tumours, it is perhaps better to term them semi-malignant. I propose, therefore to describe tumours under three headings: 1. Innocent; 2. Semi-malignant, or recurrent; 3. Malignant. Cystic tumours, mode of development. Serous cysts: situation. Characters. I. Innocent, or non-malignant tumours. These may be divided into the “ Cystic ” and the “ Solid,” the cystic under certain conditions becoming solid by the development of intra- cystic growths. Cysts are developed in many ways : 1. Some are possibly new growths or largely developed cells, having an independent life and being capable of secreting their own contents, or producing solid growths;—auto-genous cysts, as Sir J. Paget calls them. 2. Some are formed in an accidental way by the simple efiusion of fluid into the spaces of connective or other tissues, the walls of these false cysts gradually consolidating, as is commonly seen in bursae and in ordinary tumours. 3. Others, again, are produced mechanically by the dilatation of oc-‘ eluded ducts or natural gland-oriflces, the cyst enlarging by the secretion of the ducts or gland contents. Of these the mucous cysts of the mouth' and vagina, the sebaceous cysts of the skin, and the milk cysts of the breast, are the best ex- Tig. 16- amples. Virchow calls these cysts by reten- tion. In many cases, how- ever, it is impossible to ascertain how the cysts are formed. Serous cysts are most commonly found con- nected with one of the vascular glands of the body, as the kid- ney, ovary, thyroid, or breast, but they are. not rare in the connec- - tive tissue, and are.’ found even in bones.. Serous cyst of the neck. (Birkcti’s case.) When seen in the ncck»