563 MALFORMED TEETH. Tomes, no less than twenty-eight separate and adherent denticles^ (or small supernumerary teeth) were found in a cyst of the upper jaw, and are probably to be looked upon as the elements of teeth that were missing. Although both odontomes and dentigerous cysts have their origin in Early origin, early life, years may elapse before the irritation caused by the pre- sence of the odontome, or the increasing disfigurement and pain re- Gradual suiting from the enlargement of the dentigerous cyst, may lead a patient development, to seek surgical aid. Cysts developed on the root of erupted and fuUy formed teeth are not classed here as dentigerous, as they form only an appendage to the tooth. They will he referred to among the diseases of the teeth, but it may be here remarked that they sometimes attain to a large size and may, like dentigerous cysts, expand into the antrum, and also that their contents under inflammation may become purulent. Supplemental teeth (i.e. extra teeth exactly corresponding to a neigh- Supnlemeuta bouring normal tooth) are occasionally developed in both temporary ' and permanent sets, usually in the front of the mouth. If they cause crowding or are placed before or behind their doubles, they should be extracted. Supernumerary teeth {i.e. teeth differmg in form from any of the Supernumer- normal series) are not infrequently found in the upper incisive region ary teeth, and occasionally in other parts of the mouth. A pair of teeth some- what resembling incisors, but of greater antero-posterior depth, and with a deep pit on their Imgual aspect, are occasionally developed behind the permanent upper front teeth, and others more resembling small molars or bicuspids are also occasionally met with, hut by far the commonest fonn that the crowns of supernumerary teeth present is that of a simple cone, or of a cone trmicated and pitted on its summit, and these teeth have a characteristic straight terminal Une to the enamel at their necks; they are, in fact, the most elementary form of tooth formation. As a general rule, supernumerary teeth are to be extracted and will Treatment, always be found to have a single root, which may, however, be con- torted and expanded. Malformed Teeth.—Abnormalities in the form of teeth may result from the dwarfing or excessive development of the different parts or lobes, of which they are architecturally built up, and in certain cases are of great value in the diagnosis of constitutional peculiarities and in throwing light on the condition of health present during a patient’s early years, when the teeth were in process of formation. Syphilitic Teeth.—Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson first pointed out the association between congenital syphilis and a mis-shapement of the permanent teeth. This malformation is generally most strikingly apparent in the incisors, the upper centrals presenting the shape. Syphilitic diminution in size, and often the slight change in direction shown hi teeth. Fig. 240, A, instead of the normal condition represented in Fig 240, B. These dwarfed teeth present difl’erences of form, hut the most charac- teristic change in them is their lessened breadth at the cutting edge as compared with that of their necks, the vertical groove on their anterior face being often absent, and the notch on their cutting edge not being an absolutely constant feature, and being also subject to obliteration through wear. The lower incisors usually present a corresponding