413 SURGICAL HEMOSTATICS. superficial femoral artery, the axillary and brachial arteries to become permanently closed in a similar manner. It is a question, indeed, whether, as a result of contusion, adhesive inflammation ever takes place in an artery to cause its occlusion without some such laceration of its inner tunics as has. been described. Sometimes a vessel will rupture some days after the injury, at a part Secondary that has been severely contused, causing a secondary subcutaneous subcutaneous haemorrhage, and the sensation of something giving way. Such a result, however, is rare in civil practice; although in military, from gunshot wounds, it is more frequent. The bleeding under such circumstances occurs after the fifth day. Cold lotions will, generally, suffice to induce absorption of the blood when the haemorrhage is slight, although in some cases the fluid blood may be drawn off with a good result. In excep- tional cases, an aneurism may form and requires treatment. It having been asserted that it is by natural processes alone that Surgical divided vessels are permanently sealed, and arteries in continuity occluded, it will be well to inquire into the modes of action of the different means which the surgeon has at his disposal to bring about these results; and it may he stated in limine that the means are to be regarded as good, in so far as they aid the natural processes that have been described and turn them to account. Thus, the exposure of, and the ap- plication of cold to, a divided artery favours its contraction: this physio- logical fact explaining the practical,— that on the free opening of a wound, hajmorrhage so often ceases never to return. Pressure upon the end of a wmunded artery favours coagulation in the ves- sel, and the value of acupressure rests mainly upon this principle, as the pins mechanically arrest the flow of blood, whilst coagulation is taking place in the vessel up to the first branch. When a ligature is applied to an arterg the inner coats are usually more or less regularly divided, and the outer is so constricted as to arrest the current of blood through the vessel. The blood thus arrested consequently coagulates and forms a clot or throm- bus, which is, as a rule, conical with its base towards the ligature and apex pointing to and reaching the fii'st branch. (Fig. 118 h.) This clot sub- sequently contracts and becomes or- ganized. The inner and middle coats. ucemostatics. Fig. 118. Exposure of artery and the application of cold. Oil the aetion of ligature. Effects of carbolised catgut ligature on common femoral artery, taken from a girl mt. 19, who died on the 20th day from gangrenous leg afterthe application of the ligature to the artery for elephas. The ligature in this case was firmly attached to the vessel, and had acted upon its coats as a per- manent ligature. rom their divided edges, pour