FRACTTIEES AND DISLOCATIONS OP THE SPINE. 273 lysis of the arteries as a result of injury to their vaso-motor nerves. At a later period, however, this increase of temperature subsides, and a diminution can be detected. In exceptional cases the vaso-motor paralysis is associated with coldness of the parts, and it is probable, that when this coldness exists, it is due to great depression of the heart's action. Prognosis.—The nearer the injury is to the respiratory centre the Pro^osis in greater the danger to life. Thus, in injuries to the cervical spine above the origin of the phrenic nerve or third cervical vertebra causing •' paralysis, death may he insiiantaneous; when below this position, and the respiratory process is maintained only through the diaphragm, life is rarely prolonged beyond the third day, and, as a rule, not beyond the second. Mr. Hilton has, however, recorded in his lectures ‘ On Rest ’ a case in which a man lived for fourteen years completely paralysed from the neck downwards, after a fracture of the cervical vertebr£8. A gentleman, aged twenty-nine, whom I saw with Mr. Roberts, of Southgate, November 25th, 1870, with complete paralysis of the whole body below the fifth cervical vertebra, caused by a fall upon the neck, was still alive in 1877, breathing solely by the diaphragm. When the cord has been injured in the lower dorsal or lumbar region. In dorsal or life may be prolonged for many months, the immediate cause of death junibar being generally some renal or vesical mischief, some bedsore or other complication the direct result of loss of uerve power in the paralysed parts. The longer these complications are delayed by careful nursing and attention, the longer can life be maintained. In other eases, again, in which only partial or no paralysis at all is present as a direct consequence of the injury, inflammatory changes may ensue in the injured part, and, spreading upwards, cause death. 'The prognosis in such instances will be mainly determined by the seat of the injury, and, the extent of the mischief in the cord. The loioer the seat of injury, the better the prospects of a cure ; Rules as to and the less the cord is involved in the mischief, the greater the chances prognosis. of a recovery. Thus fractures of the lumbar region are quite capable of a complete cure, and fractures of the lower dorsal vertebras are not unfrequently recovered from. Injuries to the cervical part of the spine are gene- rally fatal, within three days. Injuries to the dorsal, when not proving fatal within the third week, may he survived for months, and even years, the duration of life being greatly determined by the warding off of the secondary complications which so frequently arise. Treatment.—The diagnosis of a fracture or dislocation of the Care in spine having been made, the most essential point to attend to is, to keep the part absolutely unmoved. The patient should be examined with the greatest care, and moved with every possible precaution, as any motion will necessarily add to the injury the cord has sus- tained, and increase the danger to the patient. Any manipulation of the injured part, beyond the gentlest, is to be condemned as being likely to prove hurtful. Extension of the spine may be employed Extension in when much deformity exists, or, when severe pain arises from nerve pressure, but extreme caution is required in following this practice ; it is not to be employed in every instance, but only when local sym- ptoms seem to suggest the probabilities of a successful issue. I have VOL. I. 18