552 FEACTTJKES OP THE JAW. Single dislocation. Congenital dislocations. Reduction of dislocations. Mode of proceeding. Fractures of the upper jaw. Causes. 1854) believes tbem to be caused by tlie “ displacement and stretching of the fibres of the temporal muscle on the upper surface of the condyle.” In the single dislocation, the chin is oblique, but usually directed towards the sound side instead of towards the injured side, as in frac^ ture of the neck of the bone. In exceptional cases, however, this is not to be observed. The other symptoms are similar to those of double dislocation, the hollow in front of the ear being the most characteristic. Congenital dislocations have been described by Smith, Guerin, Langenbeck, and Canton. Sir A. Cooper has also drawn attention to subluxation, in which he assumed that the condyle of the jaw dipped in front of the interai’ticular fibro-cartilage. It is caused and charac- terised by the same conditions as those of dislocation, and it is jTobably a partial dislocation forwards. Treatment.—Partial dislocations or those described as sublixations, are usually reduced by the patients themselves, by some littb lateral movement of the jaw, or, by gentle pressure upon the chin. Cases of complete dislocation have likewise been similarly reduced; out more frequently, the surgeon’s aid is demanded. The patieit should he placed in a chair with his head supported, while tin surgeon stands in front. The operator, having well protected his thunbs with a towel or lint, may then introduce them into the mouth, ani with the thumbs upon the last molar teeth he should firmly gra^ the jaw. Pressure should then be made upon the teeth downvards and backwards so as to depress the condyles from their fale position, at the next moment elevating the chin with the ouer fingers. By these means reduction is readily effected (Pig. 229). Some sur- geons prefer using a piecf of wood or the handle of a fork to depress the jaws. When strong lewrage is re- quired, as in old cases, Stromeyer’s forceps may be employed It is well to reduce both sides tgether; and old standing dislocationsmay be thus reduced. Mr. Morley reduced one after thirty-five days, Spat after fifty-eight j Demarquayafter eighty- three, and Donovan oneflfter ninety- eight. (Heath.) Fracture of the Taws. When the upper ja\ is broken it is generally from direciviolence, and, when the " key ” wasemployed for the extraction of teeth.a fracture of the alveolus was frequntly the result. Ill severe injuries, mud displacement may take place, and opious haemor- rhage follows. Cases are on i-ecord where the internal axillary artery was ruptured and fatal result ensued. The infra-orbital nerve or its branches are occfionally injured when some loss of sensation in the cheek will be piduced. I have known emphysema of the cheek or orbit to follow sue an injury, and have seen sub-conjunctival haemorrhage indicate it. toe of the worst Fig. 229. Reduction of dislocation of lower jaw.