79 SYPHILIS. 1! scotched for a time only, but not killed, and in the weakness of its : possessor has reasserted its power. No other animal poison appears to have such tenacity of existence. Effects. ! All others produce their specific effects in a definite way and in a regular series of symptoms, and are either eliminated or destroy life; ! having made their mark and run their course, they cease to act and I are innocuous ; their power for harm being exhausted. The poison of ' svphilis, however, is so subtle that it is tolerably certain most of the Its I secretions of a syphilitic subject are capable of producing the same propagation. ' disease in another; clinical experience having disproved Hunter’s c opinion that syphilis could only be propagated by the secretion of a 1 primary sore, and Ricord’s proposition, that “ a chancre at the period of I progress is the only source of the syphilitic virus.” Indeed, it may fairly ' be asserted that a healthy woman, marrying a man who has had syphilis d but in whom all symptoms have long disappeared, may give birth pre- ;i maturely to a dead foetus, to a stillborn child, or to an infant that will, t either at its birth or within a few weeks subsequently, show symptoms ! of syphilis, all these results being the effects of syphilis transferred from ii the father. When both parents are similarly diseased the evidence is i still stronger. " The semen of a diseased man deposited in the vagina Modes of ■ of a healthy woman will, by being absorbed, and without the inter- propagation. II vention of pregnancy, contaminate that woman with the secondary • form of the disease, and that without the presence of a chancre or Tlirough t any open sore either on the man or the woman.” (Dr. Porter, ‘ Dublin semen. I Journal of Med. Science,’ 1857.) 1 A healthy woman, marrying a man who has had syphilis, but who Through r, has lost all symptoms of it, may acquire syphilis through a blighted J ovum, or a series more or less prolonged of stillborn children, the fl placental circulation between the foetal and maternal blood being the I infectiug medium. A healthy woman, giving suck to a child the subject of hereditary By suckling. 1 syphilis may acquire the disease through some fissure of the nipple, ) the disease locally and constitutionally manifesting its presence with all V the intensity of a primary inoculation. Again, the secretion of any true syphilitic sore, chancre, or mucous Through 1 tubercle, whether of the mouth, nose, anus, vulva, or penis, is capable of transferring the disease; and the syphilitic poison may probably be I simply absorbed by the vessels of a part—physiological absorption— Physiological t without giving rise to any local affection. Hunter believed this, and absorption, li Lane, Marston, and Lee have published observations that tend to ij support the theory. “It should never be forgotten that it is the virus which infects i the system, and that the sore is the mere local lesion, and not a I necessary antecedent to infection.” (Committee on Syphilis, p. 8.) • “It is impossible to predicate with absolute certainty of any given I- sore that it will or will not be followed by constitutional infection.” t —J. Lane. I It should never he forgotten that the poison of syphilis, introduced into the system, in whatever way, whether inherited or acquired from I primary sores or from the secretions of a syphilitic subject, is the same I’ and manifests its presence in much the same way. Source of It may be cUfficult in individual cases to make out the direct source contagion not of the contagion; but if we recognise the fact that the virus, however made