4 INTRODUCTION. Example, local paralysis. ' Compare sound with affected side. Bedside experience. possibilities of the case having thus been reviewed, the probabilities can only be weighed by a rigid inquiry, even into the minutest cir- cumstances that can be ascertained. In cases of local paralysis the difficulties of diagnosis are very great. Is the cause a central one—that is, is it in the brain or cord? or is it peripheral—at the termination of the nerves ? or, is it local without being quite peripheral ? H one of the two former causes be in operation, the history of the case will probably form a true guide to the surgeon; and in the latter some local injury to the nerves supplying the pai't, some tumour or aneurism pressing upon the nerves, will probably be found; or, perchance it may be a case of lead palsy or infantile paralysis. But under any cir- cumstances, a true diagnosis can only be made by eliminating from consideration the many possible causes and adopting the most probable. Again, It should he an invariable rule of practice in every case of injury or disease, to compare the sound with the ajfected side of the body. In the diagnosis of a dislocation or fracture, the information gained by the comparison is always of great value, and furnishes often to the experienced eye a true suggestion as to the nature of the acci- dent. In joint disease, also, the practice is of equal importance; any effusion into a joint, or enlargement of the bones being, as a rule, readily detected on making the comparison. The nature of the disease or injury being thus suggested to the miud through the eye, the suggestion remains to be confirmed or corrected by a careful manual examination, by the other clinical symptoms, and by the history of the case; the facts elicited by the sight, by the hand, and by the ear, being made separately available, and the conclusion drawn after a careful balancing of the probabilities and possibilities of the case. The diagnosis will be well established when all these dif- ferent modes of investigation lead to one conclusion. In surgery as in medicine the student must educate the eye to see and the hand to feel. The task is by no means simple or easy; indeed, it is one of the most difficult to learn, and cannot be begun too early in a professional career. Reading will not help, nor thought aid; personal experience at the bedside alone will supply the want. To recognise the existence of a wound, or the deformity of a broken bone, may not be difficult; but to read aright the endless phenomena which a wound presents, and to make out the character or tendency of a fracture, requires much experience. To see that a swelling exists in a part is open to the uneducated eye; but to recognise the various aspects that different tumours assume, to make out their form, position, and attachments, to estimate their consistence, to recognise the fluctuation of fluid, whether superficial or deep, and to detect pulsation, require considerable tactile power and long education. What education also is demanded in order to read the phenomena presented in diseases of the eye or the skin! “ No' study of the written observations of others could enable any to appreciate those endless varieties of the pulse which entirely baffle description, or to distinguish between the warmth of the skin, excited by various accidental causes, and the pungent heat accom- panying the first stage of pneumonia, or acquaint him with the shrunk and shrivelled features derived from the long-continued disease of the abdominal viscera—the white and bloated countenance often attendant on changes in the functions or structure of the kidney—the squalid