RADICAL CURE OP HERNIA. 678 Weber’s statement ns to its inefficiency. Mode of performing llie radical cure. ineuts being held together by aneedle (which is enclosed in the cylindrical part and made to pass through the internal ring and external tissues) and a screw ; the plug should be retained for six or seven days. Rothmund, Wells, Davies, and others, have only improved upon Wutzer’s method. Mr. Birkett, however, tells us on the authority of Dr. Otto Weber, of Bonn, the late clinical assistant to Wutzer, that Wutzer is still of opinion that his operation is not dangerous when properly performed, and that by his method, the fundus of the invaginated sac may be made to adhere to its neck, and as a consequence of this, if the patient continue to wear a truss for life, a return of the hernia may be avoided. Dr. 0. Weber, however, writes that he has never seen any of the so-called “ cured cases ” radically cured; that the plug of skin is by degrees entirely drawn out again ; that the external and internal rings are not closed by the operation; that an imperfect cure may be effected by means of a partial closure by adhesion of the internal walls of the neck of the sac and thickening of the surrounding tissues. In London practice, it is also well known, that a fatal peritonitis has followed the attempt. With these facts before us respecting the so- called cure by invagination, and the knowledge that even when the cure has been effected the wearing of a truss is still an essential point of practice, the operation may be dismissed as one that cannot be recommended. Mr. Wood, of King’s College, believing that Wutzer’s principle of practice was as wrong as bis practice was unsuccessful, devised in 1863 an operation, by which the hernial sac, without the skin, is invaginated into the canal, and the hinder and inner walls of the inguinal canal are drawn forward by means of sutui-es, and fixed to the anterior and outer walls. The steps of the operation are conducted as follows. They are taken from Druitt’s ‘ VadeMecum,’ as revised by Wood:— The patient being laid on his back, with the shoulders well raised, and the knees bent, the pubes cleanly shaved, the rupture completely reduced, and chloroform administered, an obliqne incision, about an inch long, is made in the skin of the scrotum over the fundus of the hernial sac. A small tenotomy knife is then carried flatwise under the margins of the incision, so as so separate the skin from the deeper coverings of the sac, to the extent of about an inch, or rather more, all round. The forefinger is then passed into the wound, and the detached fascia and fundus of the sac invaginated into the canal. The finger then feels for the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, lifting it forwards to the surface. By this means the outer edge of the con- joined tendon is felt to the inner side of the finger. A stout semi- circular needle, mounted in a strong handle with a point flattened antero-posteriorly, and with an eye in its point, is then carried carefully up to the point of the finger along its inner side, and made to transfix the conjoined tendon, and also the inner pillar of the external ring. When the point is seen to raise the skin, the latter is drawn over towards the median line, and the needle made to pierce it as far out- ward as possible. A piece of stout copper wire, silvered, about two feet long, is then hooked into the eye of the needle, drawn back with it into the scrotum, and then detached. The finger is next placed behind the outer pillar of the ring, and made to raise that and Poupart s ligament as much as possible from the deeper structures. The needle