334 RETINITIS. Treatment. Retinitis. Affection of vision. Simple retinitis. form of hyperaemia, affecting only the retinal veins, which become enlarged, tortuous, and sometimes varicose, may be described as “pas- sive this condition is indicative of obstruction to the return of blood from the eyeball. (See Ischaemia.) Hyperaemia of the retina, especially the active form, is not easily recognised, as the limits between health and disease fade almost imperceptibly into each other, and considerable experience is required in order to judge with certainty where one ends and the other begins. Treatment.—Active hyperaemia should be treated by rest, carefully shielding the eyes from bright light by means of blue protectors or a shade. After the subsidence of the hyperaemia any anomaly of refraction should be carefully neutralized. Passive hyperaemia is usually an indication of some more serious disease, and requires no special treatment. Inflammation of the retina (retinitis).—Causes.—Eetinitis most frequently depends on some constitutional condition, as albuminuria or syphilis; it may also arise from embolism of the vessels of the retina, haemorrhage into its substance, or from cerebral disease; from tumours or entozoa within the globe, exposure to sudden flashes of bright light, or wounds of the eyeball. It may also be secondary to choroiditis, iritis, or cyclitis. Retinitis is characterised by hyperaemia of the retina, associated with more or less dense and extensive opacity of its structure, and frequently with extravasations of blood in its substance. Disturbance of vision may be a prominent symptom, or the patient may hardly be aware that anything is amiss with his eyes. The degree of impairment of vision depends upon the situation and extent of the inflamed portion of the retina; for instance, a small patch of inflam- matory exudation in the region of the yellow spot will cause much loss of sight, whereas a considerable amount of opacity situated peri- pherally will give rise to scarcely any symptoms. Pain, photophobia, coloured vision, and flashes of light, are symptoms occasionally met with in inflammation of the retina. Acute retinitis is rarely met with, and if it should occur would hardly be recognised, as the inflammatory exudation would be transparent, and, therefore, invisible; consequently the only appearance revealed by the ophthalmoscope would be enlargement and tortuosity of the retinal vessels. The forms of retinitis which give rise to striking ophthalmo- scopic appearances are essentially of a chronic nature, and are fre- quently associated with inflammatory changes in the choroid and optic nerve. Retinitis may affect one or both eyes, those forms which are of con- stitutional origin usually affecting both, though not always in the same def^ree. Several varieties of retinitis are described. Simple retinitis.—The ophthalmoscope shows a more or less general turbidity of the retina, varying from a scarcely perceptible cloudiness (giving the idea that the structure is coloured and visible instead of entirely transparent) to an uniform greyish-white or mottled opacity, which appears to cover the choroid like a veil. The outline of the optic disc is indistinct. The retinal veins appear enlarged, dark coloured, evidently gorged with blood, often twisted