TUMOURS. 96 invoked. This is still more evident since we have come to know that in a free exudation there is no new element produced; that, further- more, the elements of the body itself have a legitimate origin from father and rnother (or, to speak more correctly, from father or from mother, for it is a case of parthenogenesis), so that we must com- pletely abandon the idea that a tumour can develop itself in the body as an independent being. It is a part of the body; it is not merely contiguous to it, but proceeds from it and is subject to its laws. The laws of the body govern also the tumour. This is the reason why it is not an object of natural history that one can regard as foreign from the elements of the body; it is, on the contrary, to be looked upon as embraced within its limits Hair may make its ap- pearance and grow at a place where we do not expect to meet with hair. But no one will fancy or believe that feathers will grow in the human body. As a matter of fact there are tumours in man which contain hair, and in cutting up geese, tumours are sometimes found containing feathers. But if ever a man engendered a tumour with feathers, or a goose, one with hair, this would be a production sui generis, because the thing produced would deviate from the type inherent to the individual. “ The type which in general governs the development and formation of the organism, governs equally the development and formation of its tumours. “ There does not exist a new, different, independent type. “ What is established by logic in this matter results also from the direct observation of tumours themselves. This is why I deny that there is any heterology in the sense in which it has been maintained since Bichat’s time, or such as was supposed even before then, that is to say, that a tumour could develop itself and exist in the body in accordance with some quite new plan, some new law. T go further : each species of tumour, whatever it may be, answers in its important ■ parts to the elements of the body, the type of which is known, and , the capital difference amongst divers tumours resides in this, that: tissues normal in themselves appear under the form of a tumour, some- ■ times in regions where this tissue normally exists, sometimes in places = where it does not exist in the normal state of things. In the first case ? I speak of it as homology, in the second as heterology. “ Wherever a normal tissue appears at a point which already con- • tains some similar tissue, then as a consequence the new tissue is* identical with the old, so that the type of the new production answers f to the type of the pre-existing tissue; in this case the new tissue, the tumour, is homologous; when, on the contrary, the new type does not correspond with the old one, when it deviates from the pre-existing: type, or that which is the original and normal one of the region, then: there is heterology. But this latter has likewise its analogue in the body, only in another part of the body from that in which the tumour- is situated. “ We cannot, in my opinion, distinguish tumours according to the tissues, in such a fashion that tumours containing certain tissues are tc' be regarded as homoeoplastic, whilst those containing certain othere are.' to be set down as heteroplastic j quite the contrary, the same kind oj tumour may be, under certain circumstances, homologous, and under other circumstances heterologous. The same sort of tumour may ati