Igiii- puiiciure. Use of nitric acid. Care not to include tlie skin. Propriety of chloroform. Local aiiffisthesia useless. Prognosis of the operative measures. Prolapsus _recti. Causes. 714 TREATMENT OF H.®MORUHOID8. think in such cases it is the best to adopt. A good sound eschar forms at once, and, on its removal, a recovery takes place. Demarquay (‘Gaz. de Paris,’1860) merely passed a hot iron over the surface^ of the pile to produce a superficial eschar. He advised also linear ecrasement where the piles only protrude on defajcation and can he replaced, where the sphincter is not relaxed, nor the mucous membrane of the rectum prolapsed. In all other cases he prefers the cautery When nitric acid is used, the patient should be prepared and treated in the same way as for the cautery; the acid should be applied with a piece of wood to the diseased surface instead of the hot iron. The spoon-shaped clamp forceps are probably the best to use under these circumstances. After the application of the acid the parts should be well oiled and returned. This practice was suggested by Dr. Houston, of Dublin, in 1857. To small, flat, strawberry-looking in- ternal haemorrhoids, this plan of treatment is very applicable ; but is not so satisfactory as the cautery. I never now employ it. Ulcerating piles may be treated in the same way as others. When a fissure or painful ulcer co-exists with haemorrhoids, its base should be divided before the operation for haemorrhoids is undertaken, or, what is better, lacerated by forcible dilatation of the anus. In operating on internal piles the surgeon must be careful not to take the everted and possibly oedematous skin that encircles the mucous haemorrhoidal mass for external piles, and remove it. This should on no account be touched. Pendulous external haemorrhoids can also be taken away at the same time. In rectal operations when an anaesthetic is employed, the patient requires to be brought completely under its influence, and in this condition the surgeon loses the valuable aid a patient can give in pro- truding the haemorrhoidal mass, consequently a greater dragging force is necessitated to bring the parts well into view. On the whole, as large operations are painful and somewhat tedious, it is probably ad- visable to use the drug. Local anaesthesia in these operations is w'orse than a delusion except for the removal of external piles, but it is of use to assist their reduc- tion when inflamed and oedematous, and to give relief after operation. With respect to the danger of operating, it is but small; fatal cases have followed both the ligature and cautery, though the advocates of the latter say it is safer than the former. Mr. Henry Smith, who has operated by the actual cautery in 400 cases, had only four deaths. On the whole, the operation for piles is a most satisfactory one, and contains no greater element of danger than any other. Prolapsus Recti. This is met with in every degree of severity, from the mere pro- trusion of a ring of mucous membrane through the anus (Pig. 294) to the prolapse of even a foot of entire hotoel. In children a mild form is very common; but it is usually a symptom either of some urinary irritation, such as a stone, or that caused by a long or adherent prepuce; worms, constipation, dysentery, a polypus, or any rectal irri- tation may likewise induce it, as may a cough in very feeble subjects where the sphincter has lost its tone. One of the worst cases I have ever seen in an adult was due to the existence of a viUous polypus high