649 IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. i the mucous membrane of the bowel exposed. The opening into the ) bowel was stitched up, but the symptoms persisted, and the man died ( two days later of peritonitis. An examination after death showed, ^ : that what had been regarded as an hydrocele was a dropsy of the : congenital form of hernial sac, and what had been opened as a mass j i of omentum or omental sac was a knuckle of ileum matted together I and to the neck of the sac by lymph—this adhesion giving rise to the ( fatal obstruction. No hydrocele existed. Such cases as these should I not be mistaken for dropsy or suppuration of the hernial sac after Dropsy of sac 1 herniotomy, which are by no means unfrequent conditions and should I be treated by tapping, or, a free incision. ‘ Irreducible Hernia. When the contents of a hernial tumour cannot be returned into the I abdominal cavity an irreducible hernia is said to exist, and this condi- ^ : tion may be brought about by anything that alters the relations be- ; t tween the bulk of the tumour and the neck of the sac or opening ! I through which they would have to return, such as some excess of i faeces or flatus in the part, or some fresh descent of omentum or I > bowel. In cases of long standing the same result will ensue from the I development of fat in the omentum, from adhesions between the sac : itself and its contents, or owing to the existence of bands traversing I the sac, or to the intestine being caught between the folds of omentum. The tonic or spasmodic contraction of the structures outside the I neck of the sac under the influence of irritation, as well as the indura- i tion of the neck of the sac itself or of the surrounding parts, has also I an important influence in preventing the reduction of the tumour. When the caecum or large intestine forms the contents of the hernia, Csecal hernia. ; I the rupture may be irreducible, from the fact that the peritoneum, ! 1 which is naturally adherent to these parts and is dragged down with I them, becomes fixed to the tissues into which it is protruded. A caecal hernia is, however, always diflicult of reduction. In one case I had to , I puncture the bowel with a trocar and canula, and draw off the air it ' contained before I succeeded. No harm followed this step, and the , patient did well. An irreducible hernia is always a source of anxiety and danger, because Prognosis. ' when composed of omentum a piece of intestine may at any time slip I down behind it, and become caught in one of its folds; and, when com- I posed of omentum and intestine, any accumulation of the contents of i the bowel within the hernial sac may give rise to obstruction, and with 1 this, strangulation of the hernia is not distant. An irreducible hernia, I moreover, is always liable to injury. An irreducible scrotal or even femoral hernia will sometimes May become I attain a large size. I have seen examples of both reaching half way large. I down the thigh, but umbilical hernia will sometimes attain a still ; I gi’eater size. These forms of hernia also often give rise to dyspeptic symptoms, to ' irregularity of bowels and colicky pains, but the chief danger lies in i their tendency to become strangulated. Treatment.—A large irreducible entero-epiplocele must be treated Treatment. . ; by a bag truss; that is, with an instrument so adapted as to support I the hernia, and prevent as far as possible its increase. A small irre- ducible hernia ought to be treated by a hollow truss. An omental hernia ;