CANCEROUS TUMOURS. 121 tissues are found in the tumour, and, at others, creamy saponified masses of degenerated tissues. The microscopical appearances of carcinomata are well shown in Fig. 32. Medullary cancer, like the scirrhous, is either infiltrating or tuberous, On medullary 1^ and possesses, in a marked degree, all the cancerous peculiarities. It is, cancer. (I doubtless, only a form of cancer and not distinct from the scirrhous varieties; because both often coexist, and the growths which are second- ary to the hardest primary cancer are generally the soft variety. Medul- lary cancer is, however, the special form that appears as a congenital tumour, and which attacks children and young adults, and may be called : “ the cancer of young life.” These growths form very rapidly and run Rapid their course far more quickly than the harder kind. They increase so growili. fast that they push away the tissues with which they are surrounded more like the innocent tumours which separate them; their capsules situation. ' prevent that general infiltration of the parts which is observed in the infiltrating form. It is found, although rarely, in the breast, yet more '■ frequently in the intercellular tissue, and about the periosteum and I bones. It is the usual form attacking the eye, uterus, tonsil, testis, and ovary; the bones and cavities of the head and face appearing peculiarly I liable to its inroads. These soft cancers usually appear as deep-seated swellings, and when Characters. ' not bound down by fascia or connected with bone are rarely painful; but when so situated a gnawing pain or ache is a frequent concomitant. As they progress and become more visible, they may present either a E.\ternal nodular lobulated or a smooth and uniform aspect; but in either case appearauce. the integument covering in the growth will be traversed by many very ! large and dilated veins; while in some instances the growth has a I bluish congested aspect, as if filled with venous blood (Fig. 401). These tumours ai’e often so vascular as to pulsate, and thus simulate an aneu- Vascularity. I rism. Such a symptom, however, is mostly observed in those connected with bone. To the touch the swelling feels soft and fluctuating, often giving the Soft idea of fluid, and should the surgeon, to satisfy himself upon this fluctuating point, puncture the tumour with an exploring needle, blood will freely escape and with it some creamy tissue, which, under the microscope, will be seen to be made up of cells and nuclei. When these soft cancers have burst through their fascial envelopes When they grow more rapidly, and when they have made their way through bursting the skin they, as it were, pulp out, and project much as a hernia cerebri does after compound fracture of the skull. The soft succulent granulations and blood-infiltrated tissues that project suggested to Mr. Hay, of Leeds, the term “fungus hsematodes.” When a soft cancer Fungus is filled with blood it is known as a “ haematoid variety.” hienTatodes. When this form of cancer springs from fibrous tissue, or perios- When teum, it is often separated into sections by bands of fibres; and, when it originating in originates in bone, it may be similarly divided by thin plates or out- ®bre tissue growths of ossific matter; these plates or lamiuse being sometimes dis- ^ tinctly separate, at others so closely packed together as to form some- thing like a skeleton tumour (Fig. 23), the cancerous elements clothing the bony outgrowths or surrounding and covering them in. For dia- gnostic purposes the detection of these bony plates is of great value. Cancer may, however, attack bone in other ways (vide Chapter XXXII).