526 AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE. palate. I Summary of modes. I Ligature of I artery. Division of nerve. |! ‘I I below its angle to give room for manipulation when the disease is far back (r. Fig. 196). By one or other of these means, room can be obtained to free the tongue from its attachments, to isolate the growth by pins, and remove it by the ecraseur—wire rope being used when the galvanic cautery ecraseur cannot be obtained. I believe Nunneley’s method to be the best, using the galvanic cautery ecraseur when the dis- ease is extensive. To isolate the disease, I have found the curved needle as seen in Fig. 195 introduced beneath the chin (n. Fig. 196) through the base of the tongue, behind the disease, to be very valuable. When the disease is placed anteriorly, the introduction of pins through the mouth and the ecraseur, are all that is required. When more room is necessary, Collis, Paget, or Nunneley’s plans may be re- sorted to. When the disease cannot be isolated by these means, Syme’s operation must be had recourse to, in which case it will be well to act on a suggestion of Sedillot’s, and make the section of the jaw- bone irregular, to allow of a better adaptation of the segments after- wards than can be ensured when the line of division is vertical. The use of the knife had better be confined to the removal of small tu- bercles in the front of the tongue j all larger pieces being removable by the ecraseur with equal facility, and with a smaller loss of blood. When this disease cannot be removed, palliatives must be employed, and, among these, the removal of all teeth on the affected side of the mouth is most important. Ligature of the lingual arteries has been practised by M. Demarquay and others for the purpose of starving a cancerous tongue, occasion- ally too with a good result; yet such a proceeding is only applicable when the removal of the organ cannot be entertained. Division of the gustatory nerve has likewise been practised with suc- cess by Hilton (1850), Moore (1861), and others, for the relief of 'pain in these cases. The nerve can easily be divided by an incision made between the last lower molar tooth and the anterior pillar of the fauces, behind, below, and parallel with, the alveolar ridge, as it descends from the coronoid process. Fissures of the Palate. On fissures of The hard and the soft palate are liable to fissure, partial or the palate. complete, or both palates may be involved. It may be that the fissure appears as a mere notch in the alveolar process, in the line !' of junction of the superior maxillae with the intermaxillary bone ! as is seen so commonly in harelip, or, it may pass backwards towards j the velum; still on the other hand, the soft palate may show only a I bifid uvula or a complete fissure. The fissures in the hard and soft j palates are always in the middle line, although where they involve I the alveoli, they diverge as they involve one or both intermaxillary i bones; in fact, they invariably follow the line of suture, as seen in ' Fig. 165. Fissure of the soft palate alone is more common than ! that of the hard. Yet it is very rare for the intermaxillary bone ! to be so displaced, as seen in Fig. 171, without fissure of the palate. These malformations, when severe, give rise to much difficulty in supking and deglutition, the food passing through the nose. They likewise inter- fere much with speech. Partial fissures are of little importance. Treatment of Teeatmbnt.—When fissure of the palate co-exists with harelip, the . fissure of lip may be operated upon as usual irrespective of the fissure, though it