SPINA BIFIDA. 258 Associated _ The tumour is often associated with hydrocephalus, and in exceptional ceidiiloB'°’ *® double (Fig, 76). Such complications as club-foot or paralysis of the lower limbs, frequently coexist with it, and under such circumstances, it is tolerably certain that the cord is included in the hernia; possibly the nature of the deformity may have been determined by the special nerves which are involved. Paralytic Paralysis. symptoms are more common in the broad-based hernia than in the narrow. Incontinence of urine or of fajces may coexist with the paralysis, or be independent of it. Site of lesion. The lumbo-sacral portion of the column is more frequently affected than any other; but the cervical, and dorsal, portions are also liable to the defect. Thus, in twenty- seven examples which came consecutively under my care, thirteen occurred in the lumbar region, four in the lumbo-sacral, and nine in the sacral. One was double, a small tumour being in the lumbar and a large oue in the sacral region (Fig. 76). Twelve of these cases were uncomplicated ■ with any paralysis or deformity. In eleven there was incontinence of urine and faeces, associated in four with paralysis of the lower extremities. Four were complicated with hydrocephalus, two with naevus, and one I with talipes. I have seenbuttwoexamples in I which the tumour was in the cervical region. | When the tumour is complicated with hy- 1 drocephalus, fluctuation may often be felt I between the two parts, pressure on the head II causing a fulness of the spinal hernia, and, H vice versa. In exceptional cases, the spinal I hernia may protrude on the anterior part of the spine. Diagnosis. Diagnosis.—In a general way there is no difiiculty in diagnosing a spina bifida. In any infant a congenital tumour over the spine is probably a spina bifida; if globular and tense, or capable of becoming tense when the child cries, the probabililies are almost converted into a certainty, inasmuch as the only cases for which this affection is liable to be mistaken are congenital tumours unconnected with the spine—cystic, fibrous, fatty, or foetal tumours. These may be hard and tense, but they are rarely, if ever, made so much more tense from the child crying as is the spinal hernia. Prognosis. Prognosis.—The majority of these cases prove fatal. Many of the subjects are ill-developed, and die within a few days of birth; death from convulsions is very usual when the sac bursts and its fluid contents escape, more particularly when the escape is rapid. The rupture of the sac is not, however, necessarily followed by this result. I have watched a child with this affection for four years, in which at birth the tumour was transparent and soon burst, and, although it discharged at intervals for three years, it has now gradually contracted up into a solid mass. This case is an Natural cure, example of a natural cure, which takes place by the gradual approximation of the bony walls and closure of the orifice of the ^ Fig. 76. I J Double spina bifida, from Eliza F—, set. 3 months.