300 REFRACTION, Ametropia. Hyper- mettopia. such a position that a distinct and inverted image of any object {the rays of light proceeding from which are pa/ralleV) is formed upon the layer of rods and cones. Ametropia.—The ametropic eye differs from the emmetropic in two opposite directions; the deviations are "knov/n a.% anomalies of refrac- tion. In the first and (in this country)' most commonly met with anomaly the retina lies within the focus of the dioptric system ; that is to say, the axis of the eyeball is too short from before backwards; and images of objects, the rays of light proceeding from which are parallel, are formed behind the retina instead of in its substance. This anomaly is known as hypermetropia, or far sight (see Fig. 91 b). Fiq. 91.» To the second anomaly an opposite state of things pertains; the axis of the eyeball from before backwards is too long, consequently the retina comes to lie outside the focus of the dioptric system, and the image of an object, the rays of light coming from which are parallel. Myopia. is formed in front of it. This anomaly is known as myopia, or short sight (see Fig. 91 c). Diagnosis of The diagnosis of anomalies of refraction can be made by trial with anomalies lenses, or by direct ophthalmoscopic examination. If we wish to dia- of refraction. gjjQgg measure the degree of anomalies of refraction by trial with | lenses we must be provided with a set of trial glasses and a book of Snellen’s test types (see p. 305). ' It is generally believed amongst English, and is also reported by continental ophthalmologists, that in this country hyperraetropia is of more frequent occurrence than myopia. It appears to me that the reverse may obtain. We are rarely in hospital practice consulted about slight myopia, as it gives no inconvenience. On the other hand, a very slight degree of hyperraetropia may incapacitate the sempstress, skilled mechanic, or clerk, so that whereas we get all degrees of hyperraetropia, we are only applied to in the higher degrees of myopia. ’ In these diagrams <^>" shows posterior focal points of the dioptric system—y in h and c the abnormal position of the retina.