472 LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. Cooper’s operation. On aneurism of the innominate. Brasilor’s or Wardrop’s. Operation.—The head being thrown back to the left and the shoulder depressed, the vessel may be secured by making an incision along the anterior border and sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle; or, by a transverse one over the upper border of the clavicle making its centre correspond to the upper border of the sterno-clavicular joint; or by both combined. Under all circumstances the sternal and sometimes a part of the clavicular, origin of the muscle will require division. The sheath of the cervical vessels will then come into view, with the internal jugular vein on the outer side of the carotid artery and the vagus nerve between them. On ti’acing these downwards the inno- minate vessel will be reached. In a healthy subject the artery is always to be found behind the right sterno-clavicular joint, but in disease, its relative position may be altered by mechanical displacement. Dr. Cooper, of San Francisco, has reached the artery on two occasions by removing the sterno-clavicular articulation. In aneurism of the innominate there is no possibility of apply’ng a ligature to its cardiac side, even if the disease involves only the ipper part of the artery ; yet as a rule this form of aneurism is almost sure to be associated with dilatation of the aorta. The distal opention, however, may be thought of, the carotid and subclavian arteriesbeing ligatured simultaneously or consecutively. Of five instances in which the former practice was followed one (Ensor’s case, ‘ Lancet,’ Jjly 31, 1875) lived sixty-five days, and one recovered; w'hile out of tiree of the latter an equal success may be recorded. The credit of the successful case in the former class, for a s!ccess I take it to have been, belongs to Mr. C. Heath, who tied the smclavian artery in the third part of its course as well as the common carotl simul- taneously in 1865. The operation was followed by marked rrief, and the diminution of the tumour; the woman, set. 30, survived tfe opera- tion four years, and died from rupture of the aneurism. Afer death the aneurism was found to be of the aorta, the innominate hing only slightly involved. (Vide Prep, in Mus. of Koyal Coll, of Surgons, and ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xxi). The successful issue to the case in the latter class belongs to Ir. Peam, of Derby, who tied the carotid in 1836, and the subclavian inthe third part of its course two years later, for innominate aneurism. Te patient died four months after the second operation from pleurisy, i had an opportunity in 1866 (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol.xviii) of carefuV examin- ing and reporting on this preparation which is now in the.'ollege of Surgeons’ Museum, and a better specimen of a cured small acculated aneurism could not possibly be seen. Aneurism of the innominate has likewise been treated byigature of the subclavian or of the common carotid alone, Wardrop’siperation ; and in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery’ a most interesting list of refereies to such cases, collected by Mr. Heatb, can be found. Out of eightoi, Evans’s case, as recorded by Wardrop, was cured; his own lived wo years; Morrison’s case lived twenty months, two others lived .x months, and the remainder lived only a few days or weeks. In August, 1871, I ligatured the subclavian in a manffit. 33, for this affection, and a rapid convalescence followed, with gut diminu- tion and consolidation of the aneurism. The man livedhree years after the operation {vide page 455). This result, therefore,, not so dis- couraging as to preclude the question of operation in favolable cases.