CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. 277 Lateral curvature. Lateral curvature. This is by far the more common of the two, and is generally found in girls between ten and twenty years of age; sometimes in young children, and is frequently, not always, associated with some want of power. It is more common in the middle and higher classes of society, where sedentary occupations and luxurious enervating habits too often exist, than in young women who make full use of all their muscles and lead an active life. It is encouraged by any one-sided posture of the body, whether this Early be the result of some faulty habit, or of occupation ; of over-use of one symptoms, limb, or of any disease or deformity of a lower extremity which occasions shortening of the liinh. In its early stage it is seldom discovered, and attention, is, as a rule. Deformity, drawn to the disease by some “ growing-out of one shoulder, generally the right, some distortion of the chest, or some tilting upwards of a hip. These deformities are frequently first noticed by dancing or drill masters. When a curve has taken place in the upper dorsal region of the spine to the right side, a compensatory curve is certain to be found Compensa- in tbe lumbar to the left. In investigating a case, it is important to hear ^o^y curve, this fact in mind, as the consecutive or compensatory curve, unless of long standing, will soon be remedied when the original one has been cured. In some subjects there exists an exaggeration of the natural curves of the back. When it is in the upper dorsal region and backwards, it is called ct/phosis, when in the lumbar and forward, lordosis. This latter curve is very frequently found as an accompaniment of hip dis- ease, and in rickets. It is always present in congenital displacement backwards of the head of the femur. Associated with the lateral curvatures there necessarily must be Rotation of some rotation of the spine. The amount of this is very variable, and spine usually depends upon the extent of the curvature; it is, doubtless, due to the forcible bending of the bones downward with the ribs, these latter helping to rotate the vertebrse upon their axes. The bones may be so twisted that their transverse processes project backward, carrying the ribs with them, the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebra looking towards the convexity of the curve, and the spinous processes laterally towards the concavity. The thorax is thus much distorted, the side corresponding to the curve being expanded, and the opposite one greatly cotitracted. This is well seen in the annexed drawings. Fig. 83 taken from a living patient, and Fig. 82 from a preparation. The diagnosis is not very difficult when the deformity is well deve- Diagnosis, loped, the double curve giving the spine a sigmoid form, which istypical. In less severe cases this curve can readily be removed by extension of the body, either by lifting the patient from the ground by a hand in each axilla, or by, what is better, the vertical suspension of the patient bj' his hands from a bar or a pulley. In the more severe forms, such as that shown in the following drawing, the deformity is per- manent, the ribs are thrown out in an extreme degree, pushing the scapula outwards and upwards, and the lumbar curve is in the oppo- site direction to the dorsal. The whole thorax, abdomen, and pelvis 1 are altered in shape and position by the deformity. Treatment.—In treating these cases it is necessary in the first Treatment.