EEFEACTION. 299 6. An appearance of white wisp-UJce patches, extending from some Opacity of part of the margin of the disc over the surrounding fundus. These nerve fibres, patches have irregular jagged borders, and are often of considerable size; the retinal vessels pass through and are obscured by them. Occasionally white threads may be continued for a considerable dis- tance along tbe sides of the vessels. The patches are caused by the opaque nerve-sheaths which should end at the lamina cribrosa, being accidentally continued beyond this point into the transparent retina; they are congenital, and do not interfere with vision. 7. The choroidal vessels are at times (especially in light eyes) choroidal very plainly visible, appearing as an irregular network of pale pink vessels, bands. The region of the yellow spot presents in health no very marked Yellow spot, ophthalmoscopic signs, but requires special notice, ns it is frequently the seat of pathological lesions. In the normal condition it is recog- nised by the absence of blood-vessels, which appear to avoid this part of the retina, and pass above and below it; by some deepening in colour, and occasionally an indistinct, dark, transversely oval figure can be detected. IV. Examination by Manipulation. The fourth method of examination, hy manipulation, consists simply in ascertaining the tension of the globe by digital pressure. The ex- amination should be conducted as follows : The patient being directed to look downwards and close the eye Tension of gently, but not to screw up the lids, the surgeon should make gentle globe, alternate pressure with the forefinger of each hand placed upon the closed upper lid; the pressure should be made in a direction back- wards and somewhat downwards, so as to compress the globe against the floor of the orbit. In health the eyeball is firm, tense, and semi-fluctuating; in disease the tension may deviate in the direction of increase or decrease. The degree of tension may be expressed as follows: If normal, as Tn; if above par, as T -l-1, T + 2, T -t- 3, according to the amount of increase; if below par, as T—1, T —2, T —3. If a doubt exist, as T + ? or T — ?, according as the doubt is on the side of increase or decrease. REFRACTION, ACCOMMODATION, ACUTENESS, AND FIELD OF VISION. Definition.—By refraction of the eye we understand the power Refraction, which the refractive media (cornea, humours, and lens) possess by virtue of their curvatures and densities of bringing together parallel rays of light, and forming them into an image at a certain spot (known as tlie principal focus of the refractive or dioptric system), without the employment of any adjusting power. The refraction is said to be normal or abnormal according to the position of the retina with regard to the focus of the dioptric system. The former condition is known as einmetropia, the latter as ametropia, the terms normal and abnormal being seldom applied. Emmetropia.--The emmetropic eye (Fig. 91 a) is of such a shape Emmetropia. that the retina is situated at the focus of the dioptric system, and in