566 DENTAL SURGERY. Contracted jaws in the young. Preventive measures. receive attention, in order that these conditions may not he per- petuated in the second set. The absence of the spacing of the tempo- rary teeth, which should precede their shedding, will point to a likeli- hood of crowding among the coming permanent teeth, and demand watchfulness. Irregularity of the permanent teeth often results from the want of timely extraction, and even oftener from the untimely extraction of temporary teeth. It therefore behoves the surgeon who may be called upon to extract teeth for young subjects to acquaint himself with the time of eruption of the different permanent teeth, and with the points of difference between temporary and permanent teeth. Well-developed adult jaws should consequently be thoroughly studied as a type, and compared with the jaws in childhood. It will he then seen that development has occurred longitudinally backwards for the accommodation of the permanent molars, while the part of the jaws that was occupied by the ten temporary teeth, having undergone additional development on its anterior face, is in the adult occupied by the incisors, canines, and bicuspids. In order that these latter may have room for even arrangement, it is important that the anterior permanent molars (the six-year-old teeth) should not be allowed to take up a too forward position, which they will do if the temporary molars are prematurely lost from neglected decay. On this account, therefore, the timely stopping of the back temporary molars is a practice to be recommended. The accompanying figure will show how easily irregularities may be brought about, as the retention of the root of a temporary tooth is enough to prevent the permanent tooth from takingup its proper position. In judging of the amount of space that there will be for the accom- modation of the coming teeth, it is to be remembered that the alveolar portion of the jaws grows up with and is moulded aroimd the teeth it supports, and that there is a strong tendency for teeth to assume their proper position (the action of the tongue and lips conducing thereto). I’lG. 241. A. Permanent incisor teeth. B. Permanent canine. Drawing of jaws of child ®t. 6. A and B point to permanent incisors and canines. The bicuspids arc seen embraced by the roots of the temporary molars, ihe permanent molars, with the exception of the wisdom, are present.