350 OPERATIONS ON THE TEAR PASSAGES. After- treatment. Probing nasal duct. Bowman’s probes. Passing probe. I Accidents. Washing out lachrymal sac. one of the fingers of the right hand. The operation can be performed on the left side in the same manner, with the exception that the hands are reversed. The upper punctnm and canaliculus sometimes require to be slit; this operation is not quite so simple as that on the lower lid, but is per- formed in much the same way. In lieu of the grooved director and knife, a small probe-pointed canaliculus knife may be employed; it should be passed through the tear punctum and canaliculus in the same manner as the director, and will cut its way out as it goes. The patient must be seen at intervals of two or three days for a week, or longer, after the operation, and a probe passed along the incision to prevent it closing. Probing the nasal duct. For the treatment of stricture of the nasal duct a set of silver probes (Bowman’s) are used : there are three probes in a set, the two extre- mities of each being of different thicknesses, so that there are six sizes. No. 1 being the smallest. No. 6 the largest. To pass a probe down the nasal duct, the canaliculus should be first slit, or, what is better, should have been slit at some previous time. The surgeon should stand behind the patient in the same position as for performing the last operation; and the lids being made tense in the same manner, the probe should be passed along the slit canaliculus until the point is well within the sac, as shovvn by the absence of puckering at the inner canthus on relaxation of the tension of the lids; the opposite extremity should then be raised along the margin of the orbit until the probe has attained a vertical direction, care being taken, while so doing, to keep the end which is in the sac pressed firmly against its inner side; the probe, having been brought into a nearly vertical position, should be pushed gently but firmly downwards and slightly backwards and outwards in the direction of the duct; when it has been passed as far as it will go it should be slightly withdrawn, so as to raise its end off the floor of the nose. If the probe has been properly passed down the duct its upper part will remain firmly in contact with the margin of the orbit; but if it moves freely about, the probe is not in the duct, but has been forced through its wall. This little accident is of no particular moment, and needs only that the probe be withdrawn and passed afresh in the right direction. If the end of the probe is not well within the sac before an attempt is made to pass it down the duct, it may slip backwards into the orbit, or forwards and downwards in the cellular tissue of the cheek. A probe having been satisfactorily passed, should be left in for about twenty minutes, and the operation be repeated about twice a week. The treatment of stricture of the lachrymal duct is, on the whole, unsatis- factory, but the probing should be carefully and perseveringly carried out. It is well always to commence with the largest probe. No. 6, and try a smaller one if this cannot be passed. Washing out the lachrymal sac. For washing out the lachrymal sac a good syringe fitted with nozzles of different sizes is required. One of the nozzles should be fitted to the syringe, which has been previously filled with fluid (water, a weak solution of nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, &c.), the nozzle should then be passed along the previously slit canaliculus into the sac and the fluid injected; the patient’s head must be bent forwards during