26 ULCERS AND SORES. Division by cautery. Constitu- tional treatment of fistula. Definition of an ulcer. Varieties according to progress. Varieties according to condition of ulcer. Local causes of ulcer. ends of the wire, made hot by contact with the battery, and dividing the tissues with a sawing motion. The division with the cautery has this advantage, that the surface of the sinus is so destroyed that it must granulate. There is consequently less need of careful dressing, and in old sinuses this is a point of importance, for their surfaces are so callous that they require to be scraped or otherwise rendered raw, to permit of granulations forming. The division of a fistula with a ligature is now rarely performed, although with an india-rubber ligature it is feasible. In “ bleeders” it might be called for, but in these the wire of the galvanic cautery is preferable, when it can be obtained. Plastic operations for the cure of fistulse are also means of great value, particularly of vaginal and rectal fistulse. These will be dis- cussed in a future chapter. Last, but not least, in the treatment of sinuses and fistulse, con- stitutional treatment should be employed. In the fistula following operative or suj)purative action, such treatment is, as a rule, all that is wanted, and many are the cases in metropolitan hospitals of sinuses about stumps, skin wounds, or mamm,ary wounds, that will heal rapidly under the influence of fresh air, good food, and tonic medicine. In all cases these means are most essential, and, with them and local treatment, success is generally to be attained. ULCERS AND SORES. Ulceration is an inflammatory process, in which a sore or chasm is produced by tbe molecular death of the tissue involved. A sore is a chasm, a solution of continuity, caused by ulceration upon an external or internal surface of the body. When a sore is being formed, oris spreading by the process of ulcera- tion, an ulcer is said to exist; when the ulceration has ceased, a sore remains. When an ulcer spreads rapidly it is termed phagedcenic; when it spreads by sloughing; and when with this gangrene the molecular death of the tissue, or ulceration, is combined, sloughing phagedcena is said to exist. All these processes are consequently different forms of different ulcers, and are characterised hy degrees of rapidity of the process; the simple ulcer being the mildest, and the sloughing phagedsenic the most severe form. A healing sore heals by granulation and cicatrisation, the process of healing being the same in it, as it is in any open wound the result of injury or operation. Sores may be healthy, inflamed, weak, indolent, sloughing from excess of indolence, or irritable, terms which are applied to sores to express their conditions at the time, but having no special signification, for these appearances fluctuate according to the general condition of the patient and the local treatment of the sore. A sore may also at any time take on the ulcerative process and' spread, or assume any of the forms of spreading already described. An u,lc6r nijiy ori^inut© from n. tocdh or £i cotistituttoiKzZ cuuso* Among tbe locafeauses are injuries produced by blows, pressure, or some irritating application, or some skin eruption set up or followed by inflammation and subsequent ulceration. If a piece of skin dies, it is cast off by ulceration; if a portion of integument