! TUMOURS. 109 for It only refers to the nature of a simple growth, and not to its I treatment. If subcutaneous, these tumours are lobulated and encysted, ) that is, are defined by a distinct boundary, their cyst-wall being I formed by the condensed fibro-cellular tissue in which they are I developed. To the hand of the examiner the tumour will feel < more or less firm, and made up of lobes; when frozen by the appli- I cation of ice it becomes harder. To the eye the tumour will, on j raising it from its base and distending the skin, appear dimpled, 1 and in parts the skin will be quite drawn inwards towards the new ( growth. i Teeatment.—When no necessity exists for their removal they Treatment, j should be left alone. When large and unsightly, cumbersome or I growing, they should be removed by excision. A single incision I through the centre of the growth is the best and most expeditious I method for turning the cyst out of its bed, which can be done readily by the finger. In dealing with the pendulous growths the whole I should be cut off, leaving enough skin to cover the wound. After the I operation the edges of the wound should be brought together by i strapping and steady pressure should be applied; rapid union usually J follows. Fatty tumours, when removed, very rarely return. Curling Barely has, recorded a case, however, in which a recurrence took place, but recurrent, so much connective tissue was present in that example as almost to remove it from the class of lipoma (‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xviii, 1867). I have also removed from the buttock of a lady a lipoma of two years’ growth, the size of a fist, having removed from the same part a like tumour twelve years previously. The “ continuous ” fatty tumour should never be removed unless WHicn not to under very urgent circumstances. The operation is comparatively be removed, formidable, so much dissection being required. In children, however, these tumours may be dealt with. Fibrocellular and myxomatous tumours. Fibroccllulnr The term '^fibrocellular" was originally given by Sir J. Paget in his tumours, classical lectures on tumours to a group of new growths or outgrowths made up of tissue more or less resembling the normal fibrocellular or connective tissue of the body, and the term " myxoma” has been applied Myxomatous by Virchow to the softer, looser, and more succulent or mucous variety tumours, of this group. Billroth calls this “ myxosarcoma j ” Muller collonem'a or colloid sarcoma. The typical fibrocellular tumour is firm, with xype of the a homogeneous surface on section, and bands of delicate filamentous fibrocellular. white fibre tissue intersecting its substance. Microscopically these bands are composed of fasciculi of delicate fibres of connective tissue ■which freely interlace; ■wliile elongated corpuscles and nuclei, varying in abundance in different specimens, are found within the fibrous meshes. The tumour is more or less oedematous, serous fluid on section draining away. In the typical myxoma the tumour is less firm but Type of more elastic than the former j its nature is far less homogeneous, and uiyxoma. presents less well-marked interlacing fasciculi of connective tissue, and from the meshes of this tissue will flow a variable stream of clear, translucent viscid mucus. The fibres of the connective tissue are visible under the microscope, but in smaller bundles and more drawn out. Abundance of cells, also rounded, elongated, branching, and even anastomosing, together with nuclei, ■null be found to fill the cavities formed by the confused network of delicate fibres of which the tumour