INTEODtrCTION. 8 DISEASED BONE.—Part affected; duration; cause, as external injury, syphilis, mer- cury ; extent, superficial or deep, partial, or general; previous Treatment, especially as regards operations. Peksent Symptoms and ArPKARANCES.—Condition of dead bone or 5«aK«4<rim, fixed or loose; number and position of openings, or external cloaca, with the date of their first appearance. Treatment.—If by operation, its immediate success. DISEASES OF JOINTS.—Part affected; date of first discovery; assigned cause, as injury. Note the early symptoms, in the order of their appearance; and date of any fresh symptom or marked change; if pain or uneasiness preceded swelling, or was coeval with it; if the former, how long ? Rapidity of progress; previous Treat- ment, and its effects. Present Appearances.—Position of joint; if Hexed, the angle of fiexure; size and shape. Character op Swelling.—Uniform or bulging; manipular indications, hard, soft, elastic, or fluctuating; mobility, amount; if attended with grating, &c.; in the knee-joint, note if the patella be free or not; if free, the sensation felt on moving it; condition of skin; if fistulous openings exist; their position, number, and cliaracter of their discharge ; deep or superficial; note the date of their first appearance, and if natural or artificial. Pain, acute or gnawing; its position, general or local; if aggravated by motion, or iuterarticular pressure; if increased at night. Sleep, if disturbed by crying or starting of the limb; sympathetic pain, and its position; con- dition of muscles of limb; coustitutional symptoms. Treatment. STRICTURE,—Organic or traumatic; duration and assigned cause, especially as regards gonorrhoea; use of injections, or accident; if previously treated by Catheter; com- plications, as abscess, fistula, with their position and date of appearance. RETENTION.—Mention period of retention; preceding symptoms,and cause, as strict ture, calculus, paralysis, abscess, prostatic disease, &c. Consiitutional and local symptoms; previous and present Treatment; puncture per rectum, note the date of removal of the canula and arrest of the flow of urine llirougk the wound. EXTRAVASATION.—Cause, over-distension or accident; duration of retention before urethra gave way, and period that elapsed before being seen. Descrile the appear- ances and extent of parts infiltrated; constitutional symptoms and Treatment. VENEREAL DISEASE.—Chancre, duration; Position; glandular, urethnil, coronal, or friEiial—external, internal, or fringing preputial; character, indurated, non-iiidu- rated, aphthous, raised, excavated, irritable, phagedienic, or sloughing; tubercle; condition of inguinal glands, iudurated or inflamed. Precious Treatnent, particu- larly as regards mercury. CoMn-icATioNs.—Note the date of appearance, and situation of eich or any of the complications; the order and time of their occurrence after the primary sore. Present appearance and Treatment of each. Gonorehosa.—Date of contraction ; former treatment, especially as regards in- jections, copaiba, &c. Complications, and their duration; in epididymitis, if fol- lowing suppressed discharge; use of injections, copaiba, or violent exeicise. STONE IN BLADDER.—When discovered; date of earliest symptoms; if preceded by the passage of sand; amount of irritability of bladder; chai'acter of urine; consti- tutional and local symptoms. Treatment—Lithotrity or Lithotomy; in latter, note any peculiarity; date of arrest of the flow of urine through the wound. TUMOURS.—Date of its discovery and size; rapidity of growth; gcneril and local symptoms, in their order of appearance. General health, prior to discovery, and since; hereditary tendency; assigned cause; depressing influences, hi Mammary Tumours, number of children; date of birth of last; if ever suckled vith aflccted breast, when; condition of the catamenia, if ceased, how long ? Previous Treat- ment, and success. • , Present Condition and Appearances.—Position of tumour; size, shape; external aspeet and condition of skin; Pain, and its character; cond.tion of lym- phatic glands ■ manipular indications; mobility, when in breast, whetlier moved by traction of the nipple; Feel, hard, elastic, &c., &c. Constitutional symptoms. TheATMENT.—lu recurrent growths, give the date of former operitious j date wlieii healed; and of its first reapj)carance, and position. OPERATIONS.—Describe position, direction, and number of external incisions; the steps of the operation as performed ; its duration; number of vessels tiei or twisted, and amount of hcemorrhage. In Amputations, the part amputated, aiil position of amoufation, In Elap operations, give the position of the naps; whether anterior, posterior, or lateral; whclher performed by perforation or external incision. In the combined flap and circular, note the position of the skin flaps; in all, note the result aud character of stump.