NATURAL HEMOSTATICS. 411 natural haemostatics a fair chance of effecting a cure. From vessels of small size haemorrhage, as a rule, ceases after the first rush or, at any rate, as soon as nature’s processes for controlling bleeding have had time to act. Indeed, “ gradually, with or without surgical help, all the vessels divided by a wound are closed and cease to bleed; the larger being often aided to this end by their retraction among the looser textures, and by the coagulation of the blood within or over their orifices, and by the diminution of the heart’s force with the increasing loss of blood. Coincidently the flowing blood becomes gradually brighter and paler. And, if the wound be left open after pure blood has ceased to flow, there is an oozing of blood-tinged serous-looking fluid ; and this is gradually succeeded by a paler fluid, some of w'hich collects like a whitish film on the surface of the wound.”—Paget. Whatever favours retraction of a divided artery and its contraction. Conditions tends to arrest bleeding; whatever binders these processes prolongs and increases it. Thus, vessels that traverse loose textures cease unfavorable bleeding more readily than others circulating through those that are to close and compact, such as the integument of the head, and sole of the baimorrhage, foot; and bleeding from an inflamed or rapidly growing partis checked with greater difficulty than that from other tissues. The size and form of the wound in the vessel has also much to do with the result. A puncture in the axis of a largo artery may heal Punctured by natural processes and be unattended by much bleeding. A small vertical wound may likewise close, whereas an o6Wg«e wound will gape oblique and is, consequently, attended with copious bleeding, while a transverse wound of wound is of all others the most dangerous on account of the difficulty of controlling haemorrhage and the improbability of natural haemosta- tics unassisted by art acting with any permanent advantage. The re- tracting power of the vessel tends to cause gaping of the wound rather than closure, and encourages rather than checks bleeding. Natural and Surgical Haemostatics. Natural and WTien an artery is divided across five things happen. (1) The SoTtatics divided ends (lig. 115 d) retract within the sheath (o), and (2) by contracting diminish the calibre of the canal. (3) Blood coagulates in the sheath {a) around the orifice of the divided vessel; and (4) in the artery itself (6) up to the first large branch (e) ; and, lastly (5), plastic lymph is poured out from the divided coats of the vessel, and by its or- ganization, the permanent closure of the vessel takes place. The clot subsequently becomes organized and the vessel contracts. In a large proportion of the cases of divided arteries these natural haemostatic processes are ample of themselves for the arrest of bleed- ing, while it is only in the larger arteries that any surgical or artificial aids are required. When an artery is torn <zcross, the same changes take place; but they are carried out to an ad,vantage, as the stretching or torsion of the vessel before it gives way encourages Fig. 115. inien artery is divided. Natural haemostatics. Wlien artery is lorn across.