370 CATARACT. Linear extraction. Instruments required. Employment of ausestlietic. Method of making incision. Laceration of capsule. Removal of soft matter, &c. iris, which will in all probahility have somewhat prolapsed, must be replaced with the curette, and both eyes carefully bandaged. Linear extraction. In this operation the cataract is removed through a linear incision, partly in the sclerotic and partly in the cornea, or altogether in the former; usually associated with iridectomy, performed at the time of extraction of the cataract, or some months previously. By linear incision is generally understood an incision made in the same direction as a straight line drawn from the centre of curvature of the cornea to its circumference (one of its radii). Many modifications of linear incision are practised, but only one will be described here. The instruments required for linear extraction are a wire speculum (Fig. 97), toothed forceps (Fig. 99a), a straight cataract knife, a curette, sharp hook (Fig. 103 c, a, d), iris scissors, and iris forceps (Fig. 100 b, e). The operation should be performed thus, and, as in the other forms of extraction, the incision may be made either upwards or downwards (for position of patient and operator see Fig. 94, p. 340) :—The patient should be thoroughly anaesthetised, the lids kept open by a wire speculum, and, supposing the incision to be made upwards, the globe must be drawn gently downwards with the toothed forceps, holding the conjunctiva and subconjunctival fascia close to the lower margin of the cornea; then with the straight cataract knife puncture and counter-puncture should be made in the sclerotic, just beyond the selero-corneal margin, the knife entering at a point on the outer side of the globe, situated about two thirds of the way between the horizontal meridian of the cornea and its upper margin, and emerging at a cor- responding point on the inner side ; the edge of the knife should then be directed nearly straight forwards, and by a sawing movement made to cut its way out through the cornea, at a short distance from its upper margin. (Fig. 104 C.) If iridectomy has not been previously performed, a piece of the iris should next be excised from the upper segment. (^See Iridectomy.) The next step is to lacerate the capsule. The operator should fix the eye, and draw it gently downwards with the toothed forceps, then introduce the sharp hook through the incision and freely lacerate the I capsule with it. The cataract can then be removed by making gentle I pressure with the curette upon the eyeball, near the lower margin of I the cornea, the globe being steadied and held in position by fixing the I conjunctiva with the toothed forceps. | The nucleus and bulk of the cataract having escaped, the curette | should be passed gently over the surface of the cornea from all I directions towards the incision, so as to press out any cortical sub- ' stahce that may be left, and if any blood or portions of lens remain in the incision they must be carefully removed, so as to insure perfect coaptation of its margins; the speculum should then be removed, and both eyes bandaged in the usual way. The incision for linear extraction, as already stated, may be made downwards as well as upwards, the former method of operating being much the easier, and not requiring the aid of an assistant. The same objections apply to extraction downwards as to iridectomy in the same direction, but the results obtained are equally good as from upward sections and the ease with which the operation can