TREATMENT OF HEMORRHOIDS. 713 thermo cautery, or the galvanic cautery when it can be obtained, is preferable to the actual. Cusack, of Dublin, suggested this practice in 1835; but Henry Lee and Henry Smith have done more to establish it than any other surgeons. It is adopted as follows:—The patient having been prepared as for the ligature and the piles protruded, the Witli ttie anus is to be dilated forcibly with the view of allowing free manipu- daa'P- lation of the piles, as well as of preventing subsequent spasm of the sphincter. Each mass is then to be seized seriatim with the vulsellum forceps, drawn down and se- cured at its base by clamps (Fig. 293, a modifi- cation of Curling’s, being as good as any), the upper end of the clamps presenting towards the anus. The projecting half of each mass must then he cut olF with scissors, the surface wiped dry, and the cautery, heated to a white heat, applied to the surface; the whole projecting portion being burned down to the level of the clamp, a dense eschar is thus formed. When the thermo or galvanic cautery cannot be had, the actual cautery iron ought to he employed, a second being at hand to use as the first cools. The eschar is more solid and firm after the thermo or galvanic than after the actual cautery j it is likewise followed by less pain, the heat being so intense as to destroy all sensibility. Ample experience with both has convinced me of this fact. As each mass is destroyed, the clamp should be removed, care being taken not to disturb the eschar. When all have been treated, with the finger well greased the whole projecting mass may be returned into the rectum, it being a good plan at this moment to return with it a suppository of morphia to soothe pain. The patients should be kept at rest for at least a week after this operation, but they will often be anxious to go about much sooner, saying that they feel quite well. A fortnight is the average time for con- valeseuce, hut a week in good cases seems sufficient. In one of the worst cases of internal piles I ever treated I applied the elamp to four masses and burned them down as described with the galvanic cautery. After the first day all pain had gone; on the fourth the bowels acted naturally without the slightest inconvenience, and in a week the man was up, no single drawback having taken place. Such a ease, however, is exeeptionally good even for the cautery. The after-treatment is the same as in ligature, the local application of ice, perhaps, giving greater comfort. In not a few examples of internal haemorrhoids, where one or two Cautery sessile masses alone existed, I have, by means of a speculum, without witliout the the aid of a clamp, applied the galvanic or thermo cautery to their surfaces direct, and in others I have merely punctured them. Nothing hut good results have followed the practice, and I am disposed to Fig. 293.