198 BLOOD TUMODES OP THE SCALP. Simple contusion. Blood tumours of the scalp in newly born children. Blood effusions later in life. Treatment. Ice. Contusions of the scalp and blood tumours. The integuments of the scalp have this peculiarity, that they are intimately connected witli the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle; indeed, practically, these parts may be regarded as one, for they are not to be separated, and move together over the cranium. They are well supplied with vessels, and, consequently, have con- siderable power of repair, and rarely slough. A simple contusion of the scalp, not complicated with any great effusion of blood or other local injury, requires little surgical attention; it has a tendency to recover like contusions of other parts, although, when complicated with any great effusion of blood, difficulties arise. When any great effusion of blood complicates a contusion, a blood tumour is said to exist, and when this occurs on the scalp the affection is known by the term ceplialhaematoma. In newly born children this affection is frequently met with, and it is commonly, although not always, a result of a difficult or instrumental labour. It is usually situated over the parietal bone, showing itself as a more or less circumscribed, soft, fluctuating tumour; but the largest I have ever seen, was over the occipital bone. When the tumour is small and confined to one bone, it is probable that the blood is effused beneath the pericranium. When the swell- ing is larger and spread over more than one bone, the effusion, doubt- less, is poured out beneath the aponeurosis of the scalp. In the former or subpericranial form the indurated base may organise, or inflammatory matter may be poured out around it, and assume the character of bone, more or less covering in the swelling; and, in neglected cases, suppuration, which occasionally passes on to involve the bone itself, may follow. In the latter or subaponeurotic form, in which the blood is generally rapidly absorbed, a peculiar crackling sensation, which is very characteristic, will be often given to the hand in manipulation. In feeble infants this process of absorption may be delayed, or may fail altogether; under which circumstances surgical aid is called for. In the adult, in addition to the forms of blood tumour just described as a consequence of injury, blood may be effused into the skin itself, and appear as a hard unyielding lump. When a blood tumour has an indurated base, rising from, and appa- rently continuous with, the bone, with a defined edge towards the centre, the idea may present itself that a fracture with depression exists. Under such circumstances the surgeon will be assisted in his diagnosis by firmly pressing his thumb or finger for a few seconds upon the ridge: this act in a recent case often displaces the fibrin, reveals the uninter- rupted continuity of the bony surface, and thus proves the nature of the case. There will also be an absence of symptoms of fracture. When the case is complicated with brain symptoms or a ruptured artery, giving rise to pulsation in the tumour, some difficulty in dia- gnosis may be experienced. Treatment.'—In an ordinary case of contusion or of blood tumour the best application is a cold or spirit lotion; muriate of ammonia, in solution, being as good as any. When a rapidly forming blood tumour exists, which feels tense or pulsates, powdered ice in a bag should be applied, the cold preventing the flow of blood and encouraging absorp- tion. When the rupture of a large artery, such as the temporal or