BUNIONS. 176 This is a doctrine which applies to corns of all forms, when acted upon early. Boots which are too loose are as injurious as those which are too tight; where one presses the other ruhs, the result being the same. A well-fitting boot, with a straight inner border and broad top, is the best. To remove the cuticle nothing equals warm water; and after soaking the part in it for some time, or keeping the corn covered for a night or more with water dressing and oiled silk, the whole may be carefully peeled off by means of a knife. After the removal of the com, the skin should be protected by a piece of soap-plaster spread on leather. The application of nitrate of silver has been recommended. I have known it produee great pain, and, when applied to an inflamed eorn, much harm ; indeed, in one ease sloughing of part of the integuments cover- ing the little toe; in old people it is dangerous. The application of the glacial acetic acid is to be preferred. When suppuration takes place beneath a eorn it should be relieved by a puncture as soon as possible, and water-dressing applied. Bursal swellings are to be treated as bunions. Soft corns are best treated by taking away pres- sure by means of the introduction between the toes of cotton wool, or undressed wool, and the use of some dry powder, such as the oxide of zinc; the corn soon becoming a dry one, and easily eradicated. Aeetic or carbolic acid is a good application in obstinate cases. On bunions. Mode of formation. Bunions. When from exeessive or long-continued pressure a bursa forms over one of the tarsal or metatarsal articulations, a “ bunion ” is said to he present, and the most common seat for this affection is the metatarsal joint of the great or little toe. This fact is to be explained by the evil tendency which boots, as generally made, have to draw the toes together towards the central line of the foot. The central axis of the undeformed great toe being thus made to deviate from the normal line, whieh runs parallel with the metatarsal bone through the centre of the heel, to an abnormal one, in which the great toe itself, looking outwards, forms with the metatarsal bone at the joint, an angle point- ing inwards, and the axis of the toe falls far within the normal one of the foot (Fig. 50). Fig. 50. Fig. 51. Key’s opinion. Bunion. Toe-cap for the cure of bunion. Aston Key, however, attributes this deformity more to excessive weight received on a weak tarsus and metatarsus from over-standing; the great toe being graduaUy forced outwards by the oblique bearing of tL foot on its inner plantar surface, when the arch of the foot has