55 ON SEPTICEMIA. the second to the ninth day after an accident or operation, and seldom lasts over a week. In a simple case it may subside after twenty-four hours, and, in a severe one, it may continue for a week. When a relapse, or a second sudden rise of temperature takes place, grave mischief may be anticipated—some local inflammation, internal or external, being thus indicated. Billroth has described this second attack of fever as Rise of “ secondary fever.” When it runs on for a more lengthened period temperature. than a week severe complications are sure to exist to keep up the symptoms. During its course the temperature of the body, naturally 98'6° F., may rise suddeidy 5° or 6° F., and in ordinary cases its fall is as a nile gradual; while with its fall defervescence takes place. Should the fall be sudden, a general breakdown of the powers of the patient is indicated, and under these circumstances sloughing of the wound may be expected. Tlie rise of temperature is generally accompanied by an arrest of secretion or some change of action iu the wound, but the fall of temperature indicates the on-coming of suppuration. These points are well seen in the following thermographs, figs. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10: Fig. 6. Thermograph of acute ostitis of the tibia in a lioy, ml. 16, following a blow; admitted into Guy’s on the fourteenth day with pymniia which destroyed life on ninth day. The table well shows the fluctuation of temperature which is found in pyrnmia with the night and morning variations. Fig. 7. Fig. 8. Thermograph of traumatic fever, rise Thermograph ot traumatic fever, for three days, sudden tall, after sudden rise and steady fall after ampu- amputation at hip-joint, in a boy ret. tation of the leg for disease of foot in 9, terminating in recovery. man, ret. 52, terminating in recovery. It is, however, important to know that traumatic fever is by no Traumatic means a necessary consequence of an injury or operation, however lever not severe ; that it may follow a trivial injury or fail to follow a severe one; <^onstaut. and that it is quite impossible to predict its occurrence under any cir- cumstances. After a large number of capital operations it is entirely absent,-—I should say after one third,—and since the practice of the torsion of arteries has been adopted and wounds have consequently been freed from the presence of such foreign bodies as ligatures, the number of cases in which it is absent has decidedly increased.