LIGATURE OF FEMORAL ARTERY. 487 with success. The incision and steps of the operation are the same as for the common iliac. Stevens, however, cut down through the ante- rior abdominal walls, similar to Aberiiethy’s operation for the external iliac. It should not, however, be performed for gluteal aneurisms Gluteal unless rapidly increasing till other means of cure have been tried and aneurism, failed, such as pressure upon the aorta or common iliac, or even gal- vano-puncture. Besides Holmes has clearly shown in his College lectures, that in cases of imperfect or ruptured sacs, either the operation of Anel or that in which the sac itself is opened should be practised. In operating upon any of the iliac vessels it should be remembered that great variety exists as to their length. When the common iliac is long, its branches are short, and vice versa. Ligature of the Femoral Artery. This vessel can be tied in any part of its course, and when the thigh Ligature of is straight, a line drawn from the centre of Poupart’s ligament to the centre of the popliteal space, will mark out its position with tolerable accuracy. When the thigh is abducted and rotated outwards, a line drawn from the same point above to the inner side of the inner con- dyle indicates the upper half of its course. In the upper third, it is Place of tolerably superficial; in the middle and lower, it is covered by the election, sartorius muscle, which varies much in its width, and by the membrane forming the roof of Hunter’s canal. At the present day, it is an excep- tional act to ligature the vessel in Hunter’s canal. For popliteal aneu- rism, the artery is generally ligatured in the middle third of its course, at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. For aneurism of the femoral itself, the common femoral may be tied below Poupart’s ligament. The Common Femoral is usually about an inch and a half in length. Operation ou it does not exceed one inch in one case in four; while in one in four it is between an inch and a half and two inches. (Nunn.) It is from these facts that surgeons have generally preferred to ligature the ex- ternal iliac rather than the common femoral. The two Porters, however, as well as Macnam^^ra, of Dublin, have adduced sufficient evidence to prove that success may attend the practice, giving thirteen cases between them, and eleven proving successful. On the other hand, Erichsen tells us that out of twelve cases on record, three only succeeded—having evidently overlooked the Dublin cases. He states also as his opinion that the operation “ought to be banished from surgery.” But with that I cannot agree, after a careful perusal of the Dublin cases in the ‘ Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ 1860, and ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct., 1867. The operation, moreover, is not difficult; the vessel being readily exposed by a vertical, oblique, or transverse (Porter’s) incision. The sheath of the artery is then to be opened without touching the vein,— indeed, the vein should never be exposed,—care being taken not to enclose the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve running down in front of the vessel, in the ligature. The main arguments against the operation are founded on the un- Objections certain length of the artery, the proximity of the ligature to large to the branches, and the liability to gangrene from the occlusion of tne main ion. nutrient arteries of the limb. On the other hand, there is the success of the operation, and the facility wdth which it can be performed. More experience, however, is required before the operation can be recom- mended, though it should not be dismissed without due consideration.