723 STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. rectum between the stricture and the anus, though in exceptional in- stances and where disease is extensive the anus is involved. In advanced cases, the anus will appear patulous, and, on separating the buttocks, a red, brick-dust coloured, faeculent discharge may run out; wind will also pass without effort. To the flat, tape-like, or figured faeces which some authors regard Flat, tape- as being characteristic of this disease, I concur with Curling, in not <®ces. ascribing much importance, since sucli a condition of motion is not uncommon even in a state of health, when the bowels are irritable; besides many other conditions of the pelvic parts may give rise to the same thing. When a patient never passes a well-formed motion, large or small, the case looks suspicious j and when on the other hand, a large well-formed stool is occasionally seen, the probabilities of a stricture existing are very slight. The examination with a tube, of a diseased rectum flexible or other- Caution in wise, with or without injection, requires the greoitest care and gentle- ness, as the gut is easily perforated or ruptured; moreover, the surgeon may be misled to suspect obstruction where none exists, by the end of the instrument striking against the sacrum, or being caught in a fold of mucous membrane. It must also be remembered, iu examining a rectum for a sup- Symptonisof posed stricture, that its calibre may he more or less completely en- “'"f croached upon by pelvic tumours, uterine, ovarian, prostatic, hydatid, pvescnce°of or hony. Some few years ago I had a case with Dr. De’Ath, of Buck- tumour, ingham, in which an hydatid tumour caused complete obstruction to the rectum as well as to the bladder, and although the latter organ was emptied on the evacuation of the hydatid contents, the patient died unrelieved from an enormously over-distended and ruptured colon (‘ Trans. Path. Society,’ 1866). In April, 1870, I saw, with Mr. Phillips, of Leinster Square, a most interesting case of complete ob- struction of the bowels iu a lady, mt. 46, caused by the presence of a arge, loose, cancerous growth hanging into the pelvis from the perito- neum, covering in the promontory of the sacrum. The tumour had been regarded by an eminent physician-accoucheur as uterine. Colotomy was performed with great relief, but death took place on the third day from collapse caused by a sudden rupture of the tumour and escape of its softened contents into the peritoneal cavity. In March, 1875, I also opened the descending colon of a boy, set. 18, for complete obstruction of the rectum from a cancerous tumour that filled the pelvis and the abdomen as high as the umbilicus. The boy survived the operation two months, dying from other causes than obstruction, Teeatment.—It is so rare for a surgeon to be consulted about a Treatment of stricture of the rectum till the ulcerative stage has set in, or almost stricture of complete obstruction has taken place, that he has few opportunities of fsc'w™- testmg the value of dilatation of the stricture; since this practice is clearly useless, if not injurious, under these circumstances. In cica- tricial or inflammatory strictures, however, it is the oulj' form of practice upon which reliance can be placed. Dilatation should be eft'ected by mechauical means, but applied with Dilatation, caution, and forcible dilatation is inadmissible. Many instruments have been invented for the purpose, but the elastic-gum bougie is the favourite. I have, however, known so much harm to follow its use that 1 have abandoned it, and prefer the sponge-tent, by which a stric-