681 PEMOEAL HEENIA. Rare cases of femoral hernia occur external to the femoral vessels, as related by Partridge (‘ Path. Soc.,’ vol. i), as well as through Gini- bernat’s ligament, or with a diverticulum through the cribriform or superficial fascia. (Vide Birkett.) Diagnosis.—The points already stated will enable the student to Diagnosis of distinguish a femoi’al from an inguinal hernia. hJrni**^ A psoas abscess dilates on coughing, and disappears or diminishes on the patient lying down, just as does a hernia j but it is usually placed abscess, beneath and outside instead of inside the vessels. It is often accompanied also by spinal symptoms ; and, on manipulation, gives the sign of fluctuation from above to below Poupart’s ligament. A varix of the femoral vein may also in a measure simulate a hernia ; Varix. hut, whereas in a hernia, with the patient erect, pressure over the crural ring and vessels will prevent its descent, in varix it will cause its enlargement. An enlarged gland ought not to be mistaken for a rupture, as the Enlarged history of the case and concomitant symptoms generally mark its gland, nature. Cysts in the crural ring are doubtless difficult to diagnose, although Cysts, from their always being in the same spot under all circumstances, and from their not being iufluenced by position, coughing, &c., they are unlike hernia. When associated with a strangulated hernia they may complicate, but seldom lead to error. Tkeatment.—Reducible hernia can he treated by a truss, the Treatment of pad pressing in the hollow below and external to the spinous process of the pubes. The radical cure has been performed by \\'^ood. Wells, and Davies, but it cannot be recommended. Strangulated femoral hernia requires the most prompt attention, for the parts constricting the neck of the sac are so unyielding as to produce in a short period an amount of damage which is too often irreparable. In the application of the taxis, the utmost gentleness Caution with should he employed, and the administration of chloroform should taxis- always precede the attempt. lu the reduction of an old femoral hernia, the taxis rarely succeeds. In reducing a femoral hernia by the taxis, the surgeon should always Mode of remember the position of the orifice of the sac, for when it has turned using taxis, over Poupart’s ligament, any jn'essure on the tumour can only do harm. The tumour should be gently raised by the fingers, and drawn slightly downwards and to one side before pressure is applied, which must be of the mildest kind. If the slightest disposition to yield be shown, the pressure may be continued, because when any of the contents of the sac are emptied, the probabilities of the reduction of the whole are greatly enhanced. If no yielding he felt in the parts, the taxis had better be given up, and the operation performed. In all operations for femoral hernia, the reduction of the hernia On opening without opening the sac should be preferred, and, in “ recent” hernia *■**6 ®ac. this “ minor” operation is generally successful. The incision to expose the sac consequently should be a limited one. Luke suggested tliat “ a fold of integuments is to be pinched up and divided by trans- fixing it with a narrow blade, so that the incision when the skin is replaced shall fall perpendicularly to the body, with its centre opposite to the depression, which indicates the seat of strangulation.” But