CATARACT. 366 (1) The operation for solution or absorption. (2) Extraction. (3) Suction. cSra Forms of cataract to which each operation is applicable.—As a broad which'each is cataract occurring in persons below twenty is of the soft or ;ji applicable. cortical form, and should be removed by or cataract I occurring in persons above thirty (excepting traumatic cataract) is of the hard or nuclear form, and must be removed by extraction. In the intermediate decade a doubt may arise as to what is the best plan of procedure; in these cases the surgeon must be guided by the j general appearance of the cataract; if it appears bluish in colour, and somewhat swollen, it is probably soft and can be removed by solution or suction; if there is a distinct yellow reflection from its centre, j denoting the presence of a hard nucleus, it should be removed by extraction. It must also be borne in mind that loss of time is a veiy serious cOnsider.ation with most patients, consequently a preference must always be given to that operation which will allow him to resume his occupation as early as possible. Solution, though perhaps somewhat safer than extraction, is always a tedious process, and the more so the older the patient; consequently, ' preference must be given to extraction in all cases where the condition of the patient’s sight is such as to prevent him following his occu- pation, even though there be no appearance of a hard nucleus. In cases where the cataract is evidently soft, and one eye retains useful vision, solution is to be preferred to extraction, as the patient can continue at his work during the time that absorption is going on. Before performing any operation for cataract we must take care to ascertain that the eye has good perception of light, indicating that the retina is in a normal condition; otherwise no improvement of vision will result from removal of the lens. Operations for Eemoval of Cataract. Solution. Solution.—In the operation for solution the capsule of the lens is opened, and its substance thus allowed to be acted upon by the aqueous humour, by which it is broken up and softened, absorption finally taking place. The operation can be performed as follows (for the positions of patient and operator see Fig. 94, p. 340) :—No anaesthetic is needed; the pupil should be well dilated with atropine; the operator, keeping the eyelids separated by the fore and ring fingers of one hand, and ■ steadying the globe by pressing the second finger gently upon it, should take a cataract needle in the other hand and pass it obliquely through the cornea at such a distance from its centre that any resulting cicatrix will not interfere with vision; the needle should then be pushed on across the anterior chamber into the area of the pupil; its point then depressed and three or four incisions made with it in the Precautions lens-capsule, so as to divide it freely. Care must be taken to use the to be taken, needle very gently, and not to pass it too deeply into the lens, other- wise the suspensory ligament may be torn and the lens displaced. The capsule having been freely divided, the needle should be care- fully withdrawn and a drop of solution of atropine placed between the lids; the only after-treatment required is the constant use of atropine, so as to keep the pupil widely dilated.