105 TTJMOtTBS, beneath the mucous membrane of the parts. I have seen them as “Jg** large as an orange. These cysts generally contain thick, ropy, mucoid ^ fluid of a colourless or slightly yellow tint. Occasionally the fluid, too, is mixed with blood in di&rent proportions. I have seen them contain black, milky, or coffee-ground fluid. Sometimes they inflame and sup- purate, and run on into abscesses. tv f t f Tbkatment.—Small labial cysts may often be turned out as a whole g°g on dividing the mucous membrane over them, but the sublingual and larger vaginal cysts, as a rule, cannot be thus treated. A free open- ing into them, and the introduction of a good plug of lint soaked in iodine to excite suppuration, may at times suffice, hut not always. In the so-called ranula it may be tried before other practice is attempted. In the sublingual, labial, and vaginal cysts, I have for some years been in the habit of seizing the upper surface of the cyst with a pair of forceps or tenaculum, and cutting it off with scissors, thus freely exposing the deeper wall. In the sublingual this practice is, as a rule, successful without further treatment, but in the labial and ; vaginal cysts I have in addition generally destroyed them by the appli- i cation of some caustic, such as nitrate of silver, to the exposed surface, after which the wound will granulate healthily. When these cysts can be excised the operation may be performed, t They must be destroyed or the secretion will go on. The mucous cysts of the antrum and upper jaw will be described I amongst the tumours of the jaw. I Cutaneous sebaceous cysts, as they come under the notice of the Cataneons ; surgeon, appear as “ congenital ” and “ acquired ” tumours. They are 1 analogous to the mucous cysts, the glands of the tissue being in both ' instances at fault. Some are doubtless caused, as first described by Causes. Sir A. Cooper, by the obstruction to the orifice of the sebaceous glands ( of the skin, for this occluded orifice may often be seen as a small I' depressed black umbilicated spot upon the tumour; the contents of the 1 cyst may often be squeezed through this orifice, or into it a probe may :] be passed. In a larger proportion of cases, on making an attempt to raise the skin from the tumour, a dimple or some evidence of connection 7 between the two will be visible, thereby revealing its nature. But in j other cases no such obstructed duct or even cutaneous depression can be Q observed; and although the tumour may be developed within the (; integument, it is probably a new formation, an adenoid or glandular ( skin tumour. I' The congenital sebaceous tumours differ from those usually met with Cougeuital 1; in the adxdt, or the acquired form, in that they are more deeply placed I and mostly lying beneath the fascia of the part, occasionally beneath the V muscles; they are rarely cutaneous. They are more common about the I orbit and brow than any other part, the external angle of the eye being 7. their favourite seat. They appear as small, hard, semiglobular masses deeply placed and are often indeed, upon the bone. Cases, too, are on li record, in which, by their presence, they have produced perforation by !0 absorption of the bone. In the ear this result is not rare. These cysts > are thin-walled, and often contain liquid secretion; sometimes of a pearly whiteness, and not rarely mixed with hair. I turned a complete ' I ball of hair out of such a cyst on one occasion, though usually the hairs are fine like eyelashes, and are mixed with the sebaceous matter. The d contents of these congenital cysts are rarely offensive. I