Seat of absorbent in^ flammatinuB. Treatment of absorbent in- fliimmation. Local. Constitu- tional. Enlarged glands after levers. Opening of abscess. 188 INFLAMMATION OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. ' effused fluid as lymph that had been poured out hy the divided lymph tube, and which had been taken up again. I have not seen a similar accident since. This absorbent inflammation is most common in the extremities, though it may occur anywhere. There seems no doubt that a large number of the cases of glandular abscesses are of this nature. Pelvic abscesses in women are known to be of this kind, because pus has been found in the absorbents of the part. Glandular suppuration in the neck is, from its position, a dangerous affection, the connective tissue of the parts being so loose, and the fascia covering them so firm, that burrowing suppuration often takes place. These deep-seated suppurations should be opened early, and ^s soon as any local evidence of pus exists; and in this way, viz. hy cutting tlu’ough the fascia with a lancet, and thrusting a director or forceps into the deep connective tissue. I have opened an abscess at the base of the tongue in this manner, from beneath the jaw, with an excellent result. The swelling affected deglutition and respiration, and threatened life. Treatment.—When any indications of absorbent inflammation show themselves, the wound or sore should be well cleansed, the scab removed, and any collection of pus let out. The affected limb should be raised, the foot, when involved, brought higher than the hip, the hand or elbow than the shoulder; and warm poppy fomentations should be applied along the whole course of the lymphatics up to the group of glands in which they terminate. Some surgeons, parti- cularly the French, advise that the inflamed line should be pencilled with caustic, and dry warmth applied, such as cotton wool; but I prefer the practice already indicated, as it seems to give more comfort. Leeching is rarely, if ever, required. As soon as suppuration appears, the abscess must be opened, whether this follows directly upon the inflammation or subsequently; inas- much as suppuration at times is very insidious. At the very earliest period of the inflammation, when the tongue is foul, an emetic cer- tainly seems to have some influence in checking its progress. It is a simple and valuable remedy. A good saline purge is also beneficial. Sedatives should begiveii to allay pain, such as small doses of morphia, three times a day, with a double dose at night, to induce sleep. When sup- puration has taken place, tonics maybe administered, and ironisthe best. In chronic cases, where’induration in the track of the ducts remains, mercurial ointments and friction are sometimes valuable. Glands are very apt to inflame after fevers or the exanthemata; and particularly those in the neck. These affections often give rise to much local distress. In patients who are not extremely feeble these enlargements, as a rule, subside by themselves under careful manage- ment. In exceptional cases they suppurate. Local warmth applied by means of cotton wool, tonics and nutritious food, are the best remedies; but when suppuration threatens, warm fomentations are more grateful to the patient. Abscesses should be opened early. Before opening, however, it is well to try what draw- ing-off the pus by means of the “ aspirator” may accomplish, repeating the operation as the pus re-collects. In some instances a cure may be effected by these means, and thus a scar is prevented. Should it fail, an incision ought to be made.