ArFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 399 Myringitis. Examination of a tympanic membrane. ances and sounds of a diseased merntrane. The prognosis, unless pus Prognosis of has formed to some extent, and deafness to a considerable extent is mpt'u’®- present, is very favorable, and the perforation will be quickly healed without further treatment than keeping the membrane protected from cold. Should, however, considerable deafness and tinnitus have occurred from a blow, either with or without rupture of the membrane, the prognosis is unfavorable, as probably the stapes has been driven into the labyrinth, tearing the nerve-fibres and possibly remaining fixed there, and you must keep the patient a lengthened time under obser- vation before giving any opinion of what the results will be. Inflammation of the membrana tympani, or myringitis, is probably always associated with some affection of the internal or external parts contiguous to it. The diagnosis and treatment will be found in the description of inflammation of the external meatus. In examining the membrana tympani the points to be noted are its colour, transparency, lustre, light cone, inclination, curvature, entirety, tension, whether adhesions are present or not, and the position of the mallens, especially of its short process. For a full description of these we must refer the reader to Politzer’s ‘Beleuchtungsbilder des Trommelfills ira Gesunden und Kranken Znstande,’ Wien, 1865, hut the following short note of changes seen in the most com- mon affections in which it is implicated may be found useful in diagnosis. In acute inflammation the membrane is smooth and glisten- ing, and more or less red according to the amount of hypersemia present. When the mucous layer is hypertrophied, and accordingly a greater amount of secretion present than in the normal state, the membrane is less shining than natural, and has a whitish-grey parchment look. If there is a considerable accumulation of mucus which has lain in contact with the membrane for some time, it assumes a sodden appearance as if the parchment had been steeped in fluid. The changes of inclination and curvature of the membrane depend upon closure of the Eustachian tube, adhesions to the other walls of the cavity, accumulations of pus, mucus, or tumours, internal or external to the cavity, and perforations or thinnings of the mem- brane, and can only be diagnosed by seeing numerous cases at an aural clinique. The fact that usually only one eye is brought to bear at a time on the membrane makes it difficult for the observer to judge of dis- 1 placement, protrusions, or any changes in < which the judging of distance is required till he has accustomed himself to the use of one eye only. Chronic perforation of the membrana tympani is one of the most common affections of the ear ou which you will be consulted. The . diagnosis of the affection is easy, either by the speculum, by asking the patient to drive a current of air by a forcible expiration through the Eustachian tubes, the nostrils and lips being held firmly together, this method being called Valsalva’s method—by passing a current of air from it Politzer’s bag, as described under malformations of the external ear, or k by passing the Eustachian catheter and forcing a current of air from Fio. 114. Appearance of membrana tympani, showing tlie re- lation of parts to each other (Right ear.) Perforation of tlie membrana tympani.