155 BUENS AND SCALDS. exclusion of the air from the injured surface the hest means of neu- Exclusion of tralisino- it, the surgeon’s object has ever been to find some method of air- treatment by which this result can be secured, and at Guy’s Hospital the application of carron oil, consisting of equal parts of lime water and lin- seed oil, applied on lint and covered with cotton wool, has long been the favorite remedy, the whole being carefully kept in place by a bandage. Local At University College the burnt surface of whatever degree, is well covered applications with the finest wheaten flour by means of an ordinary dredger. At the London Hospital the application of zinc ointment on lint is employed. Dr. S. Gross, of America, nses white lead paint, and more recently, powdered clay has been employed. The dressings must not be changed for some days, not, indeed, until they have been loosened by the dis- charges or become ofiTensive, inasmuch as the process of dressing any large burn is necessarily painful, and consequently injurions. To ob- viate the necessity of frequent changes of dressing, carbolic acid has been used dissolved in the oil, in the proportion of one part to ten or more. Small burns or scalds may be treated by water dressing, lead lotion. In slight collodion. Friar’s balsam, gold-beater’s skin, flour, chalk and water, &c. Two parts of collodion to one of castor oil is also an excellent applica- tion. In superficial burns this treatment is probably all that is required, the cuticle being re-formed in three or four days, and beyond some increase of redness in the parts the cure is nearly complete. When the first dressing has been removed and the surgeon is able to make out the extent of tissue injured as well as the depth of the sloughs that are expected to separate, the character of the dressings may be altered, as it is best to hasten the sloughing process, which may be done by some stimulating dressing. Carbolic oil, made of one Use of ounce of carbolic acid to a pint of olive or linseed oil, is very effective, carbolic oil. or an ointment made of carbolic acid 5'''’, lard §iv, and castor oil ; but these drugs will not avail when a very large surface is involved; and, under such circumstances they had better be applied to the sloughing parts, and the carron oil, or zinc, calamine, resin, or creosote ointment, n\.x of the last to an ounce of lard, to the other parts. A lotion com- posed of one drachm of the compound tinctm-e of iodine to a pint of water is also beneficial. Sloughs, as they loosen, should be cut away, but Sloughs to be never dragged. Deep sloughs are well treated by poultices, the tur- removed, pentine ointment hastening their separation. Wien the surface is granulating it must be treated as any other open sore, and when the entire thickness of skin has been lost, as in burns of the fourth degree, the surgeon’s closest attention is needed to counteract the contraction Prevent of the wound that will take place, thereby preventing the advent of contraction, those frightful deformities with which all are too familiar. This can be done by extension, applied in some instances through mechanical appliances, in others, by means of bandaging and strapping. When the latter is used, the pressure should be exerted over the granu- lating surface as well as over the cicatricial border. The strapping must be good and made of linen, thin calico and leather yielding too much; and in the majority of cases nearly all requirements can be met by these means. The process of extension must be kept up during the whole period of granulation and cicatrisation. Thus, in burns of the anterior surface of the neck the chin must be extended to tbe utmost from the sternum ; in those of the thorax the arm must be