INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VEINS. 504 Sub- cutaneoua diviaiou of vein. Excision. Acupressure with sub- cutaneous division. Acupressure witli injection. Withdrawal of pins. Fergusson’s operation. to guarantee success. The caustic may be left for twelve or twenty- four hours and then removed, water dressings being afterwards applied to the part. During all this treatment, the patient must be kept in bed with the limb raised. Subcutaneous division of the vein was practised by Brodie, but after some experience, he came to the conclusion, that “it really a|)pears it is not worth patients’ while to submit to it.” Excision of a portion of the diseased vein has likewise been employed with some success. My colleague, Mr. Davies Colley, in 1874 rein- troduced the practice (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. xx, series iii), which has been followed by Mr. Howse and others. The operation consists in the exposure of the varix by a free iucision and its removal axter the application of a carbolised catgut ligature to the trunk of the diseased vein above and below. Mr. Marshall, also, in 1875, adopted a like practice (‘ Lancet,’ June 23rd, 1875), taking away some inches of dis- eased vein with forceps and scissors, after having isolated the portion to be removed by means of pins passed under the vein above and below. I think the operation is beneficial when the varix is local and requires surgical interference. Another operation much favoured and practised is that of acupres- sure. It is performed by passing a pin beneath the vein, but not through it, as in Davat’s plan, and obstructing the circulation throughtbe vein by means of a twisted suture either of silk, india-rubber, or wm applied round the pin, or, by a piece of thin india rubber stretched across it on the pin, as suggested by Mr. Lee. Two or even six of tiese acu- pressure needles may be inserted about an inch or an inch aid a-half apart, according to the extent of the disease. Mr. Lee employs also the subcutaneous division of the vein between the pins at the sane time, and my own experience confirms the wisdom of this practre. Mr. Wood employs an elastic steel spring to keep up tension on theligature till it cuts its way through the vein. On several occasions, having obstructed the circulation thrcugh the vein as already described, I have injected the vein between the jins with perchloride of iron, one drop being generally sufficient to causecoagula- tion of the blood; in others, I have used a concentrated sohtion of tannin; and in all, a good result ensued. The syringe shouldbe that used for hypodermic injections. The time for withdrawal of the pins varies according to tie effect intended to be produced. When inserted to induce coagulatim of the blood only and not inflammation, they may be withdrawn on be third or fourth day, and, in the practice suggested of acupressure and hjection this plan should be followed. Sir W. Fergusson states, “ they siould be left until they have excited considerable swelling and slight uleration, and in some instances, where the former is not very conspicucas, they may be permitted to separate by ulceration through both vein aid skin. I recommend that the process of inflammation should be more iuplicitly relied upon than that of coagulation.” He adds, moreover, tha he has not met with any seriously unpleasant effects out of the nvmerous instances in which it has been employed. It must be repeated, however, that these operations should b prac- tised only in extreme cases and not where pialliative treatnent is applicable. When a vein threatens to burst, or bas burst and encmgere life, surgical treatment is justifiable.