MICEOSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOXIES. 133 side, is that there is nothing new in the plans of construction of tumours, but that all tumours are formed of substances natural to the body. It has long been well known that a large proportion of tumours, especially those which show the most innocent disposition, have a structure like that of some healthy tissue. And this induced the naming of tumours after the tissue that they resemble, fatty, fibrous, bony, &c., or, as they are called. Lipoma, Fibroma, Osteoma (the termi- nation -oma is now universally chosen to express tumour with structural resemblance to the tissue called by its prefix). Virchow’s doctrine of the constant homology of every new tissue with some tissue natural to the body has induced him to carry this classification of tumours further than hitherto (unfortunately his book remains incomplete, and in some of the greatest difficulties the subject is still wanting his help). As a method of arranging tumours it is convenient; whatever may be said about his opinion, that no new substance can arise in the body. I believe that this opinion should be taken with due consideration if we would have a true view of the matter. Granting that whatever arises in the human body must be a human accident, so that feathers or cherry-stones will not develope in it, yet we must also see that the expression of all human accidents is not completed in the healthy man, but rather by elaboration and variation within him into something else, different, though still human. At any rate some intermediates between his healthy tissues might be expected. Many intermediates do positively arise which sufficiently show how wide a scope this possibility allows. Indeed, it should be forcibly said that while those assumedly natural tissues found in tumours are really like the natural tissues of the healthy body in general description, yet they in all or almost all instances will be found to show differences in the building up of the elements, or even in the elements themselves, which make the common identification of them with the tissues they resemble rank only as a convenience, not expressing the whole truth of the matter. So that I would lay down this proposition with confidence, thiit no morbid growth is ever found which has not in it sufficient peculiarity to distinguish it from all natural tissues, which peculiarity is to be looked at by those who would explain its characters and history j so that they should not exclusively regard those features it has in common with natural tissues. The practically important side of the matter is that osteoma is not bone, and enchondroma is not cartilage, and lipoma is scarcely fat. Nevertheless, it is very convenient to be able to classify tumours by their structural likeness to the natural tissues developed or in course of development. Yet it is only in this sense as like, but not identical, that the grouping of tumours to correspond with the grouping of natural tissues is here practised. Malignant: Cancer.—The question must be dealt with, what relation Malignancy, does the histological structure of tumours bear to the common clinical division of tumours into cancers {recurrent) and simple tumours, or into malignant, semi-malignant, and benignant tumours ? We will shortly consider these divisions. Simple or benignant tumours are those that have no malignancy, and recurrent or semi-malignant tumours are those which have only a partial malignancy, so that the