725 EXCISION OP LOWER END OP RECTUM. inconvenience as surgeons of old have theoretically attributed to it. But it should not be postponed till the powers of life have become so exhausted as to render poor the chances of recovery from the operation; or, till the caecum or large intestine has become so distended as to be much damaged or inflamed. It should be undertaken as soon as it is clear that the disease has passed When to be beyond the reach of local treatment and the general powers of the undertaken, patient are beginning to fail; or as soon as the local distress finds no relief from palliative measures, and a downw'ard course is evidently approaching. The difficulties of colotomy are not great, nor are its dangers numerous; when unsuccessful, it has been often made so by delay in its performance from the want of power in the patient, or from the secondary effects of the disease on the abdominal viscera. When most successful it gives immediate relief to most of the sym- ptoms, and makes life worth retaining. When least so, it lessens pain and renders endurable what remains of life. The operation is now established and creditably so to surgical art, although it must be admitted, that in the general way, it is apt to be postponed until too late a period to demonstrate its full value. Excision of the Lower End of the Rectum. This operation has but recently received attention in this country. Excision of although practised abroad by Lisfranc and others fifty years ago. It rectum, has, however, been performed by Billroth and other German surgeons, and by Dr. Levis, of Pennsylvania. It has been advocated as a means of cure for cancerous and other strictures of the rectum, and from Mr. II. Cripps’s Jacksonian Prize Essay (1877) it seems to have been successful; since he records that out of 44 cases which he collected, only 9 died, or 1 in 5; that in 14, recur- statistics of rence took place from four months to three years; that in 8, there was operation, no recurrence when the cases were last reported at the following periods : One year, 1, 2, 2, 4, 4, 6, and many years respectively after operation; and in 3 the patients were well some months afterwards. He likewise records, that in 23 cases, defincation was subsequently normal; in 6, that fajces could be retained when not too fiuid, and in 7, that there was incontineuce. With these facts it is clear that the operation for the removal of cancerous or other disease of the rectum by excision is a justitiable and possibly a beneficial measure, and that it should be undertaken when the disease is local and can be so defined when and isolated as to come within the reach of the surgeon’s skill. applicable. It is clearly inapplicable when the disease has extended high up When and the parts around the rectum are infiltrated with cancerous disease, inapplicable. I have had no personal experience of the measures, never having attempted to remove more than anal growths. It would seem that about 2 j to 3 inches of rectum may be removed with safety, and that when the bladder is fairly distended and trac- tion is made upon the rectum, the peritoneal pouch is less likely to be drawn down with it than when the bladder is empty. I have satisfied myself upon these points by experiments upon the cadaver. After a metallic bougie has been introduced into the bladder to serve as a guide The to the position of and to steady the urethra, an incision is to be made operation, from the base of the scrotum to the coccyx, encircling both sides of the anal aperture. The hand of the operator may then be introduced