532 AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE. Wouiula of the pulate. Perforation of hard palate. Ulceration of palate. consulted with advantage. Operative relief, however, is always supe- rior to instrumental, as in the latter the patient is entirely dependent upon the mechanist. Wounds of the palate are met with in practice from patients falling with pointed instruments in their mouths, such as pipes, sticks, spoons, &c. Small wounds need no attention, and generally do well; lacerated wounds dividing the velum, should be brought together by sutures; but where they have been left and a sep.aration ensues, the edges may be subsequently pared and brought together as in fissured palate. Perforations of the hard palate are generally due to the exfoliation of bone, and no plastic operation is of use. The proper treatment of such cases is to close the aperture by an accurately fitting plate of metal or vulcanite attached to the teeth, and arching immediately below the palate, but making no pressure upon the edges of the hole itself, as the effect of a plug is to enlarge the aperture by absorption. Ulcerations of the hard and soft palates. These are very common as a result of syphilis, and appear as super- Jicial ulcerations abo'ut the pillars of the fauces and margins of the velum. They are often preceded by an erythematous redness and take on a sloughing action in cachectic subjects. They appear, too, also as mucous patches at any stage of syphilis, congenital or acquired, involving at the same time the tonsils, tongue, &c. They appear as slightly elevated spots covered with ashy or yellowish membranes beneath which some slight ulceration may be found. Frequently they are associated with other symptoms. They are to be treated as part of a constitutional disease, such local treatment being applied as the aspect of the surface may demand. Local astringents, as alum and borax, are, as a rule, of value, and also nitrate of silver or iodoform when local stimulants are needed. Strumous ulceration of the palate. This is a distressing affection, the ulcerative action being often so rapid as to destroy within a few days the whole fauces. It is chiefly met with in the young and feeble. In other instances, it is slower in its action though equally destructive, gradually eating away all the soft tissues even to the hard palate and pharynx, and is often mistaken for syphilitic disease, or vice versd. The history of the case alone can Treatment of determine the point. Tonics and local stimulants are, as a rule, the only requisite treatment; good food,of a liquid nutritious kind, being supplied in abundance. When gargles are difficult to use, carbolic acid lotion, Condy’s fluid, or iodine lotion, a drachm of the tincture to a pint of water, may be scattered over the parts with the spray producer. In certain cases, a powerful local caustic such as nitric acid applied with a glass brush, tends to aiTCst the action. As a result of ulceration of the soft palate, it sometimes happens, that the palate becomes com- pletely adherent to the posterior part of the pharynx. In one case under my observation, there was only an opening the size of a crow-quill between the pharynx and the nose, which I subsequently enlarged and kept dilated by means of tents with great advantage. In another, a central fissure existed, leading down to the oesophagus and upwards to the n(jse. In this case, the patient experienced great difficulty m deglutition. He bad to eat with the greatest caution, otherwise the Strumous ulceration. ulcers of pulate. Hesults of ulceration. Adhesion ot palate to pharynx.