100 TUMOUES. Ou the cell elements in tumours. the malignant or cancerous simulating the more elementary or em- hryonic. As the normal tissues were formed from a simple cell, and in their higher grades are hut a development of that cell or those cells, so the cancerous element consists in a persistence of the simple cell type or that of the undeveloped embryonic nucleus. The group of cases called “recurrent” must he placed in an intermediate position, for while in their earlier stages they tend to huild up embryonic tissue, this subsequently becomes lost in cell proliferation. In proportion, therefore, to amount of the cell element in a tumour its cancerous tendency may he determined, and the greater the proportion of the fibrous or well-developed structure, the greater the probability of its nature being innocent or simple. The more a tumour simulates the natural structure of a tissue or gland, the greater the probability of its being innocent; the more a tumour simulates the undeveloped cell structure, the greater the certainty of its being cancerous; malignancy appearing to diminish in proportion as the cells become more fully developed. As moreover it is in the nucleus of a cell that the active principle of its growth is to be sought, so it is clear that the more the tumour is composed of nuclei, the more malignant is its nature and the better the formation of the cell-wall the less malignant. is the growth. The nearer a new growth approaches, both in its elements and in. the arrangements of its elements or structure, to the complex organs s of the body, the greater are the prohabilites of its being innocent; new growths under no circumstances equalling the perfection of: I a true gland tissue. Cancer being a purely cell tumour, growing in-- definitely where the least resistance is met with, and having no otherr I than cell structure, is, according to Wilks, “ an objectless cell growth.” 'I Tumours never change their original nature, nor pass or degene— never change into others of a different kind. A simple tumour remains so to. ® cancerous tumour is cancerous from the beginning. Theil above lines are not intended, however, to convey the impression that:I a patient, the subject of a simple tumour, may not become the subject; of a malignant one, or vice versa, because such may unquestionably) I ensue; and after the removal of a simple tumour a malignant one maj .'I secondarily make its appearance. But no simple tumour by growttn or degeneration will become malignant, as no malignant tumour wil become innocent. It would, however, appear that in recurring inno cent tumours there exists an increasing tendency in such growths tci present on each return the elementary character of malignant growth J and “ that a tumour which, under ordinary circumstances, is loth h I contaminate the system may do so under the favouring influence Oi a long period of time,” either as a recurring tumour or as a mor malignant one. Simple tumou/rs separate tissues in their growth, but never infiltrate, cancerous, as a rule, infiltrate, and rarely separate. No more im i| portant practical point than the above can be adduced to aid th . surgeon in his diagnosis of a tumour. A simple or innocent tumou: i however long it may be in growing, or large a size it inaj attain, will never do more than separate the parts between an beneath which it may be developed. The bones may be absorbed I ' its pressure, but they will never he infiltrated; and the skin maj' 11 so stretched and attenuated by its distension as to ulcerate or burs->f Cancer a purely cell tumour. Tumours Infiltrating process in tumours. Examples.