ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 654 Collapse. Gangrene of bowel. Rupture of bowel. Strangulated omental hernia. itself, with a feeble pulse and cold clammy skin. The vomiting also may diminish in intensity or even cease, at times remaining only as a passive pouring out through the mouth of the intestinal contents. Pain previously severe may also suddenly disappear. The collapse, indeed, may be so great that the parts about the neck of the sac become relaxed, and tbe hernia may go up either by itself, or by the gentlest pressure. Now, such symptoms indicate a serious collapse of the general power of the patient as well as a destruction of the parts strangulated in the hernia, since the reduction of the hernia is too often followed by a fatal collapse, death being usually, under the circum- stances, the result of the shock to the nervous system from the severity or persistence of the symptoms. It may, however, occur from other causes, such as gangrene or death of the strangulated bowel, rupture of the bowel at the line of stricture, faecal extravasation, or peritonitis. When gangrene of the howel is the cause of death, the collapse may be as great as it is from shock, although of greater duration. Death, however, is slower. When rupture of the hotoel with faecal extravasation is followed by collapse, it will have been preceded by symptoms of local or general peritonitis, or by a sudden severe abdominal pain; for in all cases of strangulated hernia, in which any delay in reduction has taken place, symptoms of inflammation of the protruded parts, of local peritonitis, around the neck of the sac, and subsequently of general peritonitis, will be sure to show themselves. Strangulated omental hernia is characterised by the same symptoms as the intestinal, though less marked and acute. The pain is not so severe, nor the vomiting so constant, constipation is less complete and insuperable, while the constitutional symptoms are also milder. The local distress is likewise inconsiderable, the tumour feeling harder, more nodular, and like to an obstructed hernia, permitting manipulation more freely than when it contains intestine. As time progresses, however, symptoms of inflammation in the hernial tumour will show themselves with those of local peritonitis, and when these appear, they are as severe and destructive as they are in other forms of ,stran- gulated hernia. In exceptional cases, however, the omentum may slough. A strangulated omental hernia requires, consequently, as active sur- gical treatment as any other, as it leads to the same end—a fatal peritonitis. Pathological conditions of strangulated bowel. Serous effusion. Extravasa- tion of blood. Pathological changes, the result of strangulation. These are the same when they take place within the abdominal cavity as in an external hernia, and under both circumstances, the flrst effect of tbe partial arrest of the circulation through the parts is congestion—this congestion being associated with its usual accompaniment, serous effusion. When complete arrest has taken place the congestion will be more thorough, the surface of tbe bowel appearing of a red piirple or blackish hue, and the tissues themselves thickened from effusion into theii’ meshes or blackened, wholly or in spots, by extravasated blood (Pig. 273). When they have been much manipulated by tbe “ taxis,” the extravasation of blood into the