ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 651 success does not attend these efforts and the symptoms persist, the source of obstruction will have to be sought by the surgeon as it will probably be mechanical, and the case have to be dealt with as one of strangulated hernia. Inflammation of a Hernia. An inflamed is not a strangulated hernia. Inflammation of a hernia An inflamed is generally the result of some injury to an irreducible hernia, either from accident, a badly-fitting truss, or ill-advised manipulation, though Causes, an irreducible hernia after an attack of obstruction may inflame. A reducible hernia becoming tempoi’arily irreducible and inflaming, may become permanently irreducible, adhesions forming within the sac between it and its contents. The local signs of an inflamed hernia are pain, swelling, and indura- Local signs, tion. When the tumour contains omentum, it becomes nodulated and irregularly hard; and when intestine, much fluid will be poured into the sac. When the action is enough to interfere with the natural function of the tube, symptoms of general peritonitis or obstruction will appear which must be dealt with on ordinary principles. Treatment.—Rest and the local application of ice in a bag are the Treatment. I most important remedies, also purgatives when obstruction in the hernia does not exist, and opium when it does. By such means, the I symptoms are generally arrested; and, when this result does not take i place the case passes on to one of obstruction, if not of general I peritonitis. I Intestinal obstruction and peritonitis as a result of the adhesion of a On peritonitis I piece of intestine to the hernial sac. follomug obstruction. ! I published such a case in 1861, in part iii of my ‘ Clinical Surgery,’ I and Mr. Birkett, in his excellent article in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ vol. iv, ' 1870, has given a second case with a drawing, which I also had the ’ advantage of seeing, and he alludes to the fact that M. Littrb called ) the attention of the profession to the cases illustrated by the above in a [ paper, “ Sur un nouvelle esp^ce de Hernie,” ‘Mdm. de I’Acad. Royale ) des Sciences,’ 1700, p. 300. 'The notes of my case are as follows: Umbilical hernia; obstruction to the boioelsfrom a sacculated adherent E.xample. 1 colon; death.—A woman, sat. 56, having had a hernia for many years, I. was suddenly seized some twenty-four hours before her admission into 1 Guy’s, under the care of Mr. Cock, with symptoms of strangulation. The 1 taxis, under the influence of chloroform, proved successful, but collapse i) and death followed in twelve hours. After death, general peritonitis i was found to have been present; the intestinal coils being all adherent. I An umbilical omental hernia, the size of a fist, existed, the omentum I' forming a distinct sac. To the centre of this the anterior wall of the t transverse colon was firmly adherent, forming a kind of pouch. The I. colon was, however, tolerably free. The intestines above this point I were distended, and below it contracted and empty. The csecum was Distended » of an enormous size, almost filling the lower part of the abdomen. It I was here that the tension had been experienced; it was black, and in s places the peritoneal coat was fissured, leading to the belief that but little K extra distension could have been borne without a rupture taking place. >> The mucous membrane was also lacerated transversely, while the walls I: were so thin that they were nearly ruptured in handling, these con-