AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT. 376 between the^ lids, the conjunctiva divided all round close to the corneal margin (as for extirpation), and dissected back to the desired extent. Then with the curved needle a single suture shoiUd be passed from side to side across the front of the eyeball through both edges of the divided conjunctiva, and the silk left hanging in a large loose loop on the patient’s face. The staphyloma, the whole of the ciliary body, and sclerotic corre- sponding to it, should then be removed by transfixing the globe with the triangular knife just in front of the insertions of the internal and external recti muscles, cutting out upwards in front of the insertion of the superior rectus, and finishing the removal by a sweep of the knife in the opposite direction. The silk should be then drawn up and tied, by which means the conjunctiva will be made to cover the wound in the globe, and wet lint and a bandage .applied. As soon as the parts have firmly healed an artificial eye may be worn. Abscission should be performed in preference to excision of the globe in children ; the presence of the stump left prevents to a great extent the shrinking, or non-development, of the orbit which will occur if the eyeball be removed entirely. In older persons excision is generally to be preferred, as the stump left after abscission is very liable to become troublesome, and in the very nld is prone to suppurate. AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT. Protrusion of Protrusion of the Eyeball.—As many of the diseases of the orbit and the eyeball, ^ considerable extent tumours of the eyeball itself, cause more or less protrusion of the globe, it will be well to say a few words on this subject before describing the morbid changes which may give rise to it. The symptoms are obvious enough, and do not require description, Causes. The causes are the following : 1. Inflammation within the orbit, either with or without the forma- tion of abscess. 2. Haemorrhage into the orbit. 3. Vascular protrusion of the eyeball. 4. Exophthalmic goitre. 5. Tumours within the orbit, nodes, exostoses, malignant growths, cysts, naevi, &c. 6. Enlargement of the eyeball itself from (a) growths, malignant or simple; (5) inflammation and suppuration of the whole eyeball (ophthalmitis). 7. Paralj'sis of its muscles, allowing the globe to drop forwards, and thus assume an unusual prominence. Double vision is generally complained of in protrusion of the eyeball. Ill effects of The ill eflects of the abnormal position are seen both in the globe protrusiou. itself and in the lids. Should the protrusion be so great that the lids cannot be closed over the eyeball the cornea will be left unprotected and may become opaque, and afterwards ulcerate or slough. It the protrusion continue for long the lids become distended and flaccid, their movements being much impaired; the tear puncta may also become displaced, giving rise to continual watering of the eye.