266 Insidious nature of the symptoms. Symptoms o.teu masked. Symptoms vague and indefinite. Premonitory symptoms. Affection of the muscular system. Local signs. Cerebral signs. Progress uncertain. INTRA-SPINAL INFLAMMATION, ETC. In general concussions of the spine, more particularly from railw'ay accidents, when, owing to some general shaking of the body, the spinal cerebral, sympathetic, and circulatory systems are all more ^ or less involved, there is an undoubted disposition for a chronic inflammatory change of a most insidious and creeping kind to supervene. It is now well known that the primary spinal symptoms are often so mixed up with the general as that they are really masked; and, beyond a general but temporary loss of power and consciousness there is often nothing special by which spinal mischief is mani- fested. On recovering from the shock of the accident and the mental disturbance, the sufferer often feels no deflnite injury, no local symptoms j nor is it till after some time has elapsed—the dura- tion of which is also uncertain—that any special symptoms make their appearance. Even then they are, as were their antecedents, vague and indefi- nite. It will probably be found that the patient has never been him- self since the accident; he has been unable to work mentally or physically with the same force or energy that he did previously; is irritable in his manner, and perhaps feeble in his powers. Sleeplessness too has been more complete or common than it was before, and head- ache with general malaise, now often exists. Some slight unsteadiness of gait is often the first observed symptom, a feeling of heaviness in the limbs, some abnormal sensation, such as that of pins or needles, numbness along tbe course of a nerve, cramps, perhaps retention of urine; or some evidence, in fact, of want of control or power over the muscular apparatus, and more marked generally in the lower extremities than in the upper. The centres of sensation maj', at the same time, show indications of disturbance, either by a state of lessened sensibility, or perhaps by a hyperaesthetic condition. From symptoms such as these the attention of the surgeon is probably ar- rested. On testing the muscular apparatus thoroughly, it will probably be found, that the patient will be unable to stand steadily on one leg, or, what is a better test, if he place his heels together, he will totter on making the attempt to raise his body on his toes. When asked to stoop to pick up anything from the ground, he will probably bend his knees rather than his back; and walk with a rigid spine. On giving him a small object, such as a pin, he will take it clumsily and with tremor; will fumble at most things with his hands, and stumble at anything that is in his way. On examining the spine some tenderness may be manifested on firm pressure, but probably only in certain places. Percussion on tbe bones is bardly a fair test; when employed, it should be indirect, through the fingers. Pressure applied to the spine causes at times severe pain, as does any movement; it is the latter condition which induces the rigidity of the spine in walking, before alluded to. The brain and organs of special sense may likewise be affected, either by over or under sensibility. Vision may be imperfect either in one or both eyes; hearing may be over-sensitive or defective; ta^te and touch may be perverted or lost; and smell at times destroyed or morbid. In fact, the whole nervous system, cerebral and spinal, may be dis- turbed, and its functions more or less damaged. The course which such cases run is very uncertain, and the prognosis