27 CONSTITUTIONAL SORES. inflames from some external irritation, a local eczema or skin eruption, an ulcer follows. An abscess may form beneath the skin or in the deep parts, and burst by ulceration. It may be that some deep-seated dis- ease was the cause of the abscess, but the ulceration spreads and remains as an ulcer. Amongst the constituHonal causes, excluding cancers, may be classed Lonsutu-^^^ anything that superinduces a low condition of the vital powers, such as any illness, certain habits of life, syphilis, or scurvy. It should be remembered, however, that ulcers which have a con- stitutional origin may be kept up by local causes—thus, a syphilitic or cachectic ulcer originating from a general cause may take on any of the characters common to the healing ulcer or sore, in the same way that a local ulcer or sore, produced from local causes, may fail to heal from some constitutional defect. Lupus, rodent ulcer, epithelial or carcinomatous ulcers, stand by Special themselves, and are called special ulcers. There are also local sores originating from local causes, which are often kept from healing through some general or constitutional failing; constitutional sores originating from constitutional causes, that may fail to heal on account of some local condition interfering with repair; and special sores. For the treatment of such it is most essential that the three different forms be recognised. Local sores, as already stated, have a local origin—something causing A local ulcer, inflammation and ulceration in the skin, and a sore remaining; the disease being cutaneous from the first. The few cases connected with disease of the deep-seated parts, such as the bones and joints, can readily be known. Constitutional sores have rarely a cutaneous origin, unless origin-A constitu- ating in some ulcerating skin eruption, such as ecthyma or rupia; ulcer, but they almost always commence in the subcutaneous connective tissue as a more or less circumscribed induration, which lasts a very variable period, and then softens down; the skin over it inflaming, sloughing, and ulcerating, to give vent to a deeper slough ; the sores or ulcers always being of a celliilo-membranous kind. These ulcers may have Ccllulo- their cause in an ordinary cachexia or in syphilis, but the cellulo-meiu- niembranous. branous ulcer is always constitutional, and requires general more than local treatment. In syphilis the ulcers are the result of broken-down subcutaneous “ gummata.” The appearance of these sores will depend much upon the period at which they are seen; but, from the time when the skin has broken and ulcerated, the margins of the skin opening will appear thin, irregular, and undermined, and, at the bottom of the opening, the slough will appear. When simple, the slough will appear more or less white, sometimes pearly; but when syphilitic, it will have the aspect of apiece of wet loashleather, at least, iu the majority of cases. When any of the slough has come away the skin will at first be under- mined, and the margin of the sore fall inwards, but, as the granulations rise from below, the skin will be pressed up, although when the wound has cicatrised, the scar will almost always be a depressed, and in syphilis, a stained one. Around this sore several small openings often coexist, each one having formed to give exit to a small slough, the margins of which appear as if they had been punched out. These sores occur mostly about the lower part of the thigh and knee, elbow, shoulder, and forehead, and are found.