•ULCERATION OP THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 720 Local measures. Cancerous ulceration of rectum. Symptoms. Case. an enema of starch or gruel, with or without oil, to keep the parts clean and free from the irritation of fseces. The recumbent posture should likewise be observed, as well as simple, nutritious, but not bulky, food taken. Locally, absolute cleanliness is essential. Wliere contraction exists or is taking place, the daily introduction of a bougie anointed with some mild mercurial ointment such as the unguentum metallorum, may he used; but for the patient, the daily introduction of a candle simi- larly anointed is preferable, candles being made of all sizes. Nothing like mechanical dilatation should be thought of as it is dangerous in the extreme. By these means a cure may be effected, though such can only be complete after the treatment of months. In very neglected or severe cases, a cure is almost hopeless without colotomy. I have had some striking examples under my care illustrating well the advantages of this operation. The recognition of the disease as syphilitic is the main point to he made out. Foreign authors describe chancroid disease of the rectum as venereal and not syphilitic ; but in this country it is hardly recognised. Such may, however be found amongst those described as cases of simple ulceration. Cancerous ulceration of the rectum, usually epithelial, sometimes villous, rarely carcinomatous, is generally met with two or three inches up the bowel. It occasionally occurs higher up and beyond the reach of the finger, in the rectum, and occasionally lower down, nearer the anus or involving it. It is remarkably insidious in its origin and uncertain in its progress, giving rise at first only to such symptoms as are usually put down to constipation, for this symptom is the most prominent feature, while the occasional pain and bearing down or straining are looked upon as the result of the constipation. In a general way it is only when some blood or sero-purulent fluid has passed, with or without a motion, that surgical aid is sought, and it is under such circumstances that the surgeon discovers, on making a local examination, that such a serious disease exists. The cancerous ulcer can rarely be overlooked, and occurs as an indu- rated, nodular, irregular mass. In its early stage it has a smooth surface, in a later ulceration, the discharge, which is generally very offensive, being made up of broken-up tissue, blood, and thin pus. It involves, as a rule, the whole circumference of the bowel, at others only a part. It is always associated with some narrowing of the canal, which this will go on to cause its complete occlusion. In September, 1871,1 attended with Mr. Turner, of Bermondsey, a girl, aet. 18, who had had insuperable constipation for seven weeks. I opened her colon in the right loin with great relief, and she was up and about in six weeks. She died ten months after the operation (June, 1872), with a rectum completely occluded from cancerous disease, and with secondary tubercles in the pelvic peritoneum. The disease was examined at the Pathological Society by the Committee on Morbid Growths, and was reported on by Dr. Hilton Fagge and Dr. Goodhart. They found it to he of a cancerous nature confined to the peritoneum and ovary, and only leading to stricture of the bowel by a secondary process of con- traction. The stricture had an ulcerated surface, but the mucous membrane did not show any cancerous elements (‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ 1875.) The symptoms, indeed, are those of stricture.