CATARACT. 368 Flap extructiou. Method of making section. Incisions for extraction. attempt to extract an immature cataract without first excising a portion of iris, and it is well to do so as a preliminary some weeks before the lens is removed. Flap extraction. The instruments required for flap extraction are a triangular cata- ract knife, sharp hook, and curette (Fig. 103 h, d, a). For the positions of patient and operator see Fig. 94, p. 340. No anaesthetic is required; the patient should be requested to look down- wards, the lids kept open and the eyeball steadied by the operator’s fingers as in the operation for solution. The incision should be made by passing a triangular cataract knif( through the outer margin of the cornea, at a point just above its hori zontal meridian, into and across the anterior chamber, bringing it ou( through the cornea at a corresponding point on the inner side, and completing the section by pushing the knife onwards until its heel cuti out along the upper margin of the cornea. (Fig. 104 A.) This simple onward movement of the knife is sufficient if the incisioi Fig. 104. Incisions for extraction of cataract.—A. Flap. B. Oblique corneal section. C. Linear incision. has been properly planned, but should the cornea have been entered? too low down, the knife will not be wide enough to cut out, and then i the section must be completed by slightly withdrawing the blade or by a sawing movement. Care must be taken not to withdraw the knife ji until it has passed some distance through the opposite side of thel. cornea, or the aqueous humour will escape too soon, and the iris fold! over the edge of the knife and be wounded. If the incision has been properly made a semicircular flap, including ■! a little less than half the cornea,' will be formed. The section having been finished, the patient should close the eyes' gently, and be allowed to rest for a moment. I Removal of The next step in the operation is the removal of the opaque lens. ^ the cataract, q’jjg upper lid being drawn gently upwards and the patient directed to look downwards, the sharp hook must be introduced through the wound and the lens capsule lacerated by gently scratching it; the hook should then be withdrawn, and the patient allowed to close the eyes for a short time. The eyes should then be gently opened, and the lens removed by lightly pressing the lower lid against the globe, just below the inferior margin of the cornea, with the thumb of one hand, counter-pressure being similarly applied with the forefinger of the other hand at a corresponding point above. If the manoeuvre be properly executed the pupil gradually dilates, the lens slips gently through it into the anterior chamber and then escapes by the corneal wound. Any pro-