592 ArPECTIONS op the pharynx and (ESOPHAGUS. Signs of ulceration. Cancerous variety. Syphilitic variety. Example. Gastrostomy. Ulceration e.xtendiiig into air-tube. Caution in use of probang. Treatment by dilatation. Useful in tlie cicatricial stricture. small boluses of food grows fari passu with the obstruction. An attack of spasm is perhaps the first symptom that attracts notice, spasm which completely closes the canal, and causes regurgitation of the food. At this early period of the disease the surgeon will probably be able to pass a prohang, though it may he only a small one. As the disease pro- gresses some signs of ulcerative action may appear, such as the discharge of pus or blood, which usually comes up with the regurgitated food, and when this occurs there is no better indication of the presence of ulcerative action. If the patient be middle aged, the probabilities of the disease being of a cancerous nature are very strong, and should there be any local thickening behind the larynx or glandular enlarge- ment, these probabilities are enhanced. When, however, the patient is a young adult, and a history of syphilis exists, its syphilitic nature is rendered probable, as simple or syphilitic ulceration of the oesophagus is sufficient of itself to cause complete oesophageal obstruction, simu- lating stricture—the spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the tube having much to do in bringing about this result. The following case, which occurred in a patient of Dr. Habershon’s, illustrates these points very forcibly:—The patient, set. 48, was dying from starvation caused by inability to swallow on account of oesophageal disease, and for it I performed the operation of gastrostomy. The man lived six days afterwards, and died of pneumonia. After death, nearly a complete ring of ulceration w'as found at the upper part of the oesophagus, which had caused all his symptoms. Its syphilitic nature could not be decided, although the man gave a history of having had the disease twenty years previously. The repair at the seat of operation was most com- plete, the stomach and integuments having firmly united. No peri- tonitis existed. I once saw, in consultation with Mr. Pink, of Greenwich, and Dr. Wilks, a case of complete oesophageal obstruction which we all believed to be cancerous, but which so far improved under the expectant treat- ment as to allow of the passage of well-minced food with comparative comfort. Several months later, however, complete dysphagia returned, and the man died, a direct communication having taken place between the oesophagus and the respiratory tract from extension of the can- cerous ulceration. Had a bougie been passed in this case, a fatal result would probably as a consequence have taken place. As the disease progresses other symptoms will appear, for the ulcer may eat its way into the larynx or trachea, when it soon proves fatal. It is from this fact that the surgeon should always be very chary of passing any bougie down the oesophagus, because when ulceration has taken place, he will be very liable to do harm, and may cause perfora- tion of the ulcer into the air-passages, or even the pleura. Treatment.—Assuming the pathology of stricture of the oesophagus which has been given to be correct, the treatment by dilatation, is not only useless but dangerous except when the stricture is of the cicatricial form; for when it is due to cancerous or other ulceration the irri- tation of a bougie must do harm, and the passage of an instrument is likely to hasten the fatal termination of the disease. In the cicatricial form, however, or that which follows some local injury, such as can be produced by an irritant fluid, dilatation is of great value, and such treatment if it does not cure the disease will at least prolong life. A bougie as large as can