MICROSCOPICAL ANATOMY OP TUMOURS. 138 I matter. It corresponds nearly to gelatinous sarcoma, collonema, and fibro-cellular tumour of old authors; the forms of the cells are very variable, but in the moat typical examples, and especially in the older and fully developed parts, the cells are large and usually multipolar or “stellate,” with a distinct nucleus and nucleolus; the stellate branch- ing rays of the cells are mutually connected, so as to form a more or less open network, in the interstices of which the mucous semi-fluid lodges. Beams and bands, which generally have a stiff rigid appear- ance and an angular rather than a wavy disposition, pass about, divid- ing up the substance of the tumour into very imperfectly defined sections, more or less visible to the naked eye; from these arise fine fibrils continuous with the cellulo-fibrillar network. Much of the tumour, and especially the younger part, may be found formed of spindle-cells; these are really connected, by threads from their sides, with the intermediate fibrillar network, and it can often be seen that the stellate forms are produced by the drawing out of these threads to greater lengths, through the separation of the texture elements by the increasing quantity of mucus. In yet other examples or parts the prevailing form of the cells is round, or with one pole; the round cells resemble ordinary mucous corpuscles, and are scattered among the fibrils in the mucoid matter; they often contain many fat-grains, and are found in the oldest parts of the tumour, representing the sene- scence of its cells. There is also a great variability of the intercellular substance, first, in proportion of the fibrous to the cellular part; and second, in the proportion which these solid elements bear to the mucoid interstitial matter; thus, there is a fibrous myxoma, and a clear pellucid variety, with much mucous fluid, perhaps even forming cysts (hyaline and cystic myxoma). In some examples there are large polynucleated cells, identical with the so-called giant-cells of “ giant-cell” sarcoma. In the theory of types, myxoma is affiliated to certain natural tissues, in particular the jelly of the umbilical cord, the vitreous of the eye at a stage of its development, and the early stages of adipose tissue, or to a stage of bone formation out of cartilage. It will be seen that these typical tissues are only transitory in their nature, as compared with such stable tissues as bone, cartilage, tendon. In accordance with this instability of their type, myxomas themselves show many transitions to various kinds of connective tissue ; these transitions are chiefly towards cartilage or fat (myxomatous enchondroma, myxoma- tous lipoma). Tumours are not infrequent, especially in the parotid region, which are intermediate between cartilage and mucous tissue, so that one cannot say to which they most properly belong; also, many fatty tumours show clear gelatinous patches of mucous tissue in all transitions to fat, while many myxomata show opaque spots composed of true adipose tissue. Fig. 31. The essential character of adenoma lies in the possession of a glan- dular structure ; but the comparative amount of the glandular element varies much. There is also variety in the kind of tissue which is found between the gland-follicles. Some tumours show structure almost iden- tical with that of compound racemose glands, having natural-looking ADENOMA.