616 GASTROTOMY AND GASTROSTOMY. Concretions. Treatment. Gastrotomy and gastrostomy. the stomach, too, were numerous blades partially dissolved, or between thirty and forty fragments in all. At times, intestinal calculi form from the agglomeration of hair, husk, particularly oat husks, or other foreign substances, and prove fatal. Dr. Down has recorded such a case (‘ Path. Trans.,’ 1867), in a boy, mt. 13, who died of exhaustion after 15 days’ illness. Not many years ago I saw an artist, set. 36, who died from intestinal obstruction, through whose abdominal walls a globular indurated mass was readily felt on the right of the umbilicus. I suspected it to be made up of hair, for he was in the habit of sucking to an excess the paintbrushes of his pupils, but the diagnosis could not be verified after death. Treatment.—Rest in the horizontal position and expectant treat- ment are in these cases the two essential points to be observed, and purgatives should on no account he given. The “ smasher,” according to Pollock, who constantly swallows false coin, when caught in the act of passing it, avoids purgatives, hut takes a constipating diet, such as hard-boiled eggs and cheese, together with his usual food, thinking that the money is more likely to be caught and consequently passed in a bulky stool than in a liquid one. The surgeon should act on this i principle. When the foreign body becomes impacted in the stomach or intestine, or sets up inflammatory actiou and peritonitis, the thought of opening the abdomen may he entertained; that is, the surgeon may assist natural processes when they are doing their best :o get rid of the foreign substances by ulceration, and, when the foreign body is large and clearly cannot be passed, the surgeon should open the stomach by gastrotomy, ten cases out of eleven in which this operation has been performed having recovered. (Vide paper by Dr. Pooley, cf New York, ‘ Richmond Med. Journ.,’ April, 1875.) Gastrotomy and Gastrostomy. When the stomach has to he opened for the removal of a foreign body the operation is rightly described as that of "gastrotomy.” When the same operation is performed with a view to establish a permanent fistula for the introduction of food, as first performed hySMllot in 1849, and described by him as gastro-stomie, the term “ gaitrostomy ” seems to be the more applicable terra. This change has beet suggested by Dr. Pooley, of New York, and it seems so apposite tiat I now adopt it. p 1 . j That the operation of gastrotomy is not necessarily fatal is proved by the fact, that it has been performed at least eleven times, ind in ten with success, and though in the twenty-one cases in which gistrostomy has been undertaken for cancer, life has been never prolongel for more , than forty days (Sydney Jones’ case, ‘Lancet,’ May 15th, 1875), the evidence of the relief that it has afibrded to those who lave been subjected to it is sufficient to prove that it is based upon a somd prin- i ciple and a humane practice, for it ought to_ he remembered tlat in the twenty-one cases in which it was performed, it was undertaken nore with a view of mitigating the horrors of a death from hunger and tiirst, and j of prolonging what remained of life than from any curative (bject, for j in every instance the cause of the obstruction was cancerous sticture of | the oesophagus. I have had an opportunity of watching the pngress of three of these cases under the care of my colleagues, Messn. Cooper