ANEURISM. 449 the popliteal space in eighteen hours, by alternating the flexion of the leg with digital pressure in the groin. M. Liegois, in an interesting paper (‘ L’Union Med.,’ Aug. 1869), gives eleven cases in which flexion alone proved successful in popliteal aneurism, and also eleven in which it was successful in combination with other measures. In four, it succeeded after other means had failed. On the other hand it failed in twenty-three cases, or nearly half the whole number, and of these, seven are stated to have suffered rupture, and one had inflammation of the sac. Holmes’s statistics show nearly the same results. Fjq. 134. Dix’s mode of compressing artery. The taire compress of Mr. Dix. of Hull, already alluded to (see p. 421), Dix’s wire eqmres naming as a means of dealing with aneurism. It is a method compress. fS r “‘I'^oc^ted by Porter, of Dublin, Hilliard, and others 1871 ® Journal,’ October 30th, strluo-ni ftreatment by compression and not by SSwir'lb nor obliterate it at the seat wi^^hprinciple and methodus medendi, it ranks not w th the ligature, but with the tourniquet and other mode of pressure frSrv of the wire requires exposure of the ^ outting operation, this process cannot enter into surgical Xfe tS bn J ■? methods of compression and flexioiifyet inevitable “ tbe^ or are inapplicable and operative procedure is ineiitable, then,” says the author, “ 1 back my operation for cer- o! citmu^n?’ ‘"’y 0^ hgature—silk, hemp, ^ *)S*^*ost any kind of forceps, ‘ artery constrictor ’ or compressor applied in or through a wound.’’ ^ constrictor, or to f n follows, and it seems to be specially necessary to follow out the exact details with care and attention , ’ ^ e u“?’iy.T;tc‘e’o‘r™t”ical'‘‘ P»“'i i» Hew.ppli.a, y A piece ot surgical wire, about 9 inches long is PVO r,t as s . - '”“6> the s , r. “urgicai wire, about 9 inches long is the nrf the eye of the aneurism-needle and carried beneath Horn th- the withdrawal of the needle, which is then semrS end of tbp'^*^-^' surgical needle is then attached to either passec b then the other) are ^ VOL I surface, so that they emerge on the 29