306 AFFECTIONS OF EYELIDS. Normal extent of field. Limitation field of vision. Towne’s stereoscopic test for ilie retina. Eyelids. Congenital anomalies. one than the other; we must also take care that he keeps his eye fi.xed. Supposing that the eye under examination distinguishes all move- ments of the hand at the same distance from the centre as our own, we decide that his field of vision is normal; but if a falling off is noticed in any particular direction, we infer that the sensibility of the corresponding portion of retina is impaired. It must be remembered that each part of the visual field corresponds to a part of the retina opposite to, and not on the same side as, the object seen; e.g., suppose that the movements of the hand are not perceived in the outer half of the field, the inner half of the retina is defective, and vice versd. It must also be borne in mind that the height of the bridge of the nose has a considerable influence in limiting the inner half of the visual field. Limitation or contraction of the visual field is a very constant accompaniment of retinal changes; it is also one of the ear- liest symptoms of glaucoma, and occurs as a physiological condition with advancing age. Stereoscopic test for the retina.—A very simple and effectual method of testing the sensibility of the retina has been devised by Mr. Joseph Towne, of Guy’s Hospital: it consists in presenting simultaneously to non-corresponding halves of the two retinae similar objects. The examination is carried out by means of a stereoscope, provided with two slides; on each slide are two white semicircles described upon a red ground, those on the one slide being so contrived that when looked at through the stereoscope they correspond to the nasal halves of the two retinae, whilst those on the other slide correspond to the two malar halves. In cases of want of sensibility of the whole or any part of the retina, from whatever cause arising, a part or the whole of one or both semicircles corresponding to the affected portion of retina appears misty or entirely obscured. The degree and extent of the mistiness or obscurity is governed by the degree of insensi- bility and extent of the impaired portion of retina. Mr. Towne has made “ The Stereoscopic Test for the Retina ” the subject of some very interesting papers in ‘ Guy’s Hospital Reports,’ series iii, vols. xi, xii, xiv, XV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL AND ITS APPENDAGES. Several of the more important affections of the organ of vision will be briefly alluded to in future pages; the present section is devoted to a short description of those diseases and injuries which (with a few exceptions, e.g. glaucoma) do not call for operative interference. THE EYELIDS. Congenital anomalies.—Absence of the eyelids; a failure of closure of the foetal fissure, leaving a cleft in one or both lids (coloboma); ptosis, complete or partial; development of a third lid; pigment spots, moles, nsevi, and warty growths, have all been occasionally met with.