ANEURISMS. 459 called the collateral circulation, the vessels coming off above the obstructed part communicating with those wliich arise below it. At first the vessels are very numerous, hut as time goes on their number diminishes, only those most conveniently situated for carrying on the circulation becoming rapidly or gradually permanently enlarged. To illustrate this beautiful compensator^' natural act I submit two drawings (Figs. 136,137), taken from a preparation in Guy’s Museum, No. 1519^*, made by Mr. Cock in the year 1826, from a patient set. 58, in which case Sir A. Cooper had applied a ligature to the e.vternal iliac artery, eighteen years and a half previously for femoral aneurism. A full description and preparation of the case is to be found in the first volume (first series) of the ‘ Guy’s Keports,’ by Mr. Cock. The drawings need no lengthy description, as they e.\plain themselves. Arterio-venous Aneurisms. When an artery and a vein communicate with each other, the On nrterio- arterial blood passing directly into the vein without the intervention of 'cnous a sac, an aneurismal varix is said to exist (a, Fig. 138); and when a sac exists into which the arterial blood flows in its passage to the vein, this condition is called a varicose aneurism (b, c, and D, Fig. 138). Both these varieties of arterio-venous aneurisms are now rare; but when Varieties, venesection was a common operation they were far more frequent; as they are usually produced by the perforation or division of an artery through a vein, the opening between the vessels remaining permanent. Goupil (Paris, 1855) recorded the fact, that out of fifty-seven cases of this affection, thirty-one were the result of bleeding. Yet both forms may originate spontaneously from disease. Cases are also on reconl where the aorta and superior or inferior vena cava communicated. Wade (‘ Dublin Med. Press,’ 1861) has also recorded a case in which an opening existed between the aorta and pulmonary artery; and my friend Mr. Morris informs me, that he has seen a case in the femoral region, the result of a pistol shot received by a sportsman in America. Indeed, all the large arteries and veins may be similarly affected. Fio. 138. A* V a lllustraliug the different forms of arterio-venous aneurism. A. The artery and vein directly commumcatinK. B and C. The dilution being more in the vein. D. cose aneurism laid open. xj. ,iui- In an aneurismal vanx the vein assumes in some degree the proper- Aneurisma ties of an artery and becomes enlarged from the arterial impulse. Besides ' arix. being irregularly dilated and tortuous, the dilatation assumes a fusiform or sacculated appearance, while it also becomes thickened and pulsates.