69 INSECT STINGS. thicliening of the cuticle takes place around it, and as from time to time a little fresh suppuration occurs, so the thickening and induration increase. Generally, however, these changes go on slowly, without any preliminary vesication. A warty thick- ening of the epithelium takes place, which, in course of time, becomes of a dark colour, until a kind of icthyotic condition is produced.” The disease is local, and unattended by constitutional symptoms. Tlie re- peated application of the strong tinc- ture of iodine, acid nitrate of mercury, or nitric acid, will effect a cure. Insect stings in this conntry are not very severe, and, unless inflicted in large numbers, are rarely brought under the notice of the Surgeon. Slight fever and constitutional distui'bance may fol- low them in some children who are sus- ceptible to external influences, whilst local swelling, heat, and redness are very marked in others. Should a wasp or bee accidentally be taken into the mouth with fruit, and the base of the tongue, pharynx, or larynx stung, serious symp- toms may appear by the oedema and swelling of the parts impeding respira- tion. When this accident happens, scari- fications should be employed with fo- mentations, but if life be threatened, the windpipe must be opened. When the tongue or other accessible part is afl’ected, the sting should be removed, if possible, with a pair of fine forceps, and thus much pain is saved. AVhei’e this cannot be done, a drop of either the liquor ammoniaj, sal volatile, or oil of lavender, applied to the part generally gives relief. The parts should also be protected from the air by collodion, flour, chalk, or strapping. The bite of the scorpion, the tarantula, and other tropical insects is, however, more troublesome, and is often followed by nervous depression, vomiting, and local pain. In South America, the mosquito bite is at times attended with severe local inflammation, and sometimes with ulceration. In Africa and Asia, the scorpion, which is from six to ten inches long, is so venomous as to cause, by its bite, at times, loss of life. Olive oil is the usual application for the wound, but liquor ammonia} is probably better. Brandy and ammonia should be given internally when great depression exists. The bite of the spider is very similar in its effects to that of the scorpion, though the wonderful stories as to its poisonous qualities are now regarded as fabulous. Serpent bites are often serious, and at times fatal, the poison being squeezed into the tissue in the act of biting, from a special apparatus situated at the base of the upper fangs. In England, the vvper is the only poisonous reptile, and although some local and constitutional dis- turbance may follow its bite, a fatal result rarely ensues. Fig. 11. Anntoiuical tubercle. Model Guy’s Mus. 193“. Insect stings. Serpent bites.