482 LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. UeBcription of the operation. Ligature of the lower Uiird. Ligature of the radial artery. the arm is tlie best point to choose. The course of the vessel is indi- cated by a line drawn from the middle of the axilla to the inner side of the biceps tendon at the bend of the elbow, while the inner border of the biceps muscle is the guide to the incision. The vessel may be exposed by a cut, two to three inches long, made in this position, with the arm extended and supinated. The skin, which is always thin, and the fascia should be carefully divided, and the deep fascia which is thus exposed ought then to be laid open, but with care, for the basilic vein lies immediately below it on the inner side of the brachial artery. The ulnar nerve will be found on the inner side of the vein, and the median in front of the artery, but there is no regularity in these relations; consequently much care is required in finding the vessel and discretion in tying it, for a high division of the vessel or the ■ existence of some vas aberrans may mislead and confuse. When the right vessel has been found, the application of a ligature is readily concluded. In performing this operation care must be taken not to open the sheath of the biceps muscle, and it should be remembered . to flex the forearm on the arm, after the division of the deep fascia. has taken place. In several cases in which the occlusion of this i artery was required, I have divided it and torsed both ends with excel- lent results. ligature of the brachial in its lower third is now rarely performed.. In the days of bleeding, it was by no means unfrequently required for • traumatic aneurism, though it has never fallen to my lot to witness its ■ performance for such a cause. The operation may be performed with; the forearm extended, by making an incision two and a half inches; long on the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, care being taken to i avoid the large veins that ramify in the superflcial fascia. The ten- ■ dinous aponeurosis of the biceps will then come into view, and, on its> division, the artery will be exposed with its venae comites—the tendon i of the biceps being on its outer and the median nerve on its inner • side. The forearm should then be flexed after the artery has beeni exposed, when a ligature can be passed without trouble. Ligature of the radial artery.—A line drawn from the outer side of: the biceps tendon, at the bend of the elbow to half an inch internal to ■ the styloid process of the radius at the wrist, marks out with sufficient: Fig. 154. Su/iinator Jonnus Ligature of radial artery. clearness, the course of the radial artery, and the vessel may be tied : in any part of it. In the upper third of the forearm (Fig. 164), between .