FRACTURES OP THE SKULL. 202 6. Under certain conditions of the system, a slight concussion will he followed by a fatal secondary inflammation of the brain-coverings, while under other conditions a severe injury to the brain will be followed by no such result; in the former case the kidneys are generally diseased. With these general propositions which the student should learn and think over as a guide, I now proceed to consider the subject of frac- tures of the skull. FEACTUEES OF THE SKULL. These may be divided into fractures of the vault and fractures of the Varieties. iase, a third and large division including those of the vault and base. They may likewise be simple or compound, comminuted, depressed, or undepressed. Fractures of the vault are generally caused by direct blows upon the part, or falls upon sharp bodies. They include most of the punctured fractures and incised wounds of the bone, as in sword wounds, &c. They are very frequently compound and comminuted, and the brain injury which is associated with them is for the most part local. The fracture may appear as a simple fissure, the extent of which is determined by the amount and character of the force employed, the line of fracture being influenced by the sutures and ridges of bone. When Fig. G3. Fig. 64. Gutter- and saucer-sliaped fractures of the skull. Starred and comminuted. ILp fm-cp is local and moderate, the fracture may be limited; when con- and severe, the fracture will be starred’■ and generally “ comminuted," the fissures radiating in all directions, involving many bones and passin°- downwards towards the base. When inflicted with 1 ra • when with a round one, as a hammer, the bone Se?il.ed in meruit, a "saucer” (Fig. 6i). When the frac r been caused by a fall from a height upon the vertex, or by fror.Teavy boiy. bone, of the vfult and of the has. may not only be flssm-ed but displaced, and the sutures even may be 0«“~«/roeto-es are generally the result of a coneentr.ted local violence, and are consequently found chiefly in the vault, and .ire mostly compound (Fig. 65).