After- treatment. Use of cautery. TREATMENT OP H.®MOERHOIDS. by an enema of warm water, he should he placed on his side with his legs drawn up and the parts weU brought into view by an assistant separating the buttocks. The surgeon should then grasp the base of the turner that is to be ligatured by a pair of forceps such as that nguied (Figs. 291-292), and separate the pile from the skin and sub- mucous tissue by scissors, subsequently transfixing it with a needle Fig. 291. armed with a double ligature either of silk or hempen cord. He should then divide the cord aud tie the pile tightly in halves, cutting off with scissors half at least of the strangulated portion before finally tightening the second ligature; a second or third mass should be similarly treated, the ends of the ligatures cut off, and the whole then returned within the sphincter. The surgeon should be careful to include in his ligature all the diseased tissue, and when this has not been done with the forceps, it is better to pass a needle or tenaculum through the base of the pile higher up, round which the ligature may be looped, than to remove the forceps and reapply it. He should also take care not to include any of the external skin. The ligatures may be expected to separate about the seventh or tenth day, and they should always be allowed to slough off. After the operation an opiate may be given or a full dose of chloral (half a drachm). The bowels should be left undisturbed for at least two days, when a dose of castor oil or other purge may be administered, or, better still, an enema. The horizontal position must be maintained throughout the case. If oedema of the parts follow, ice may be applied or a lotion of lead and opium; belladonna rubbed down with glycerine at times gives relief. Until the bowels act the diet should be simple, nutritious, but not stimulating. This operation is suc- cessful, and has no special danger, though it is, perhaps, more tedious than the treatment by cautery, and more painful. The cautery.—When internal piles require removal, the clamp and cautery are, without doubt, the best means to employ, and the