Character. Treatment. Sebaceous sublingual cysts. Salivary calculus. Symptoms attending. 518 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS, MOUTH, ETC, position), the salivary duct can readily be traced lying over them (Pig. 191). Sometimes they are multiple, and, on several occasions, on opening one cyst, I have seen a second within. When neglected and allowed to iiicrease, they may so press the tongue upwards as to pre- vent the patient speaking, or, they may form a large swelling beneath the jaw. Within the mouth they appear as semi-transparent cysts beneath the tongue, and they are, as a rule, painless and merely give trouble mechanically. When opened a glairy mucoid fluid escapes. This ope- ration, however, rarely is serviceable as the fluid re-collects. The best treatment is, to raise the upper surface of the cyst by means of a pair of pointed forceps or a tenaculum, and with scissors cut off its upper surface. M. Panas, of Paris, has lately injected these cysts with three to ten drops of a solution of chloride of zinc (45 grains to an ounce of distilled water) with success. In large tumours the cavity may be plugged with lint soaked in iodine after it has been freely incised. The application of a seton is at times beneficial though an uncertain remedy; simple plugging of the cyst was a mode of treatment that I formerly employed till I discovered that the plans above suggested were prefer- able. It is next to impossible to excise them, as they have no definite walls. Encysted tumours are, however, met with beneath the tongue. I have had two under care, and both I mistook for ranula. The error was discovered only on opening them; and in both, on making my in- cision, I had to cut through the raucous lining of the mouth over the cyst, and the cyst-wall itself. From both a cheesy sebaceous secretion escaped. These tumours have nothing to do with ranula, have distinct cap- sules beneath the mucous membrane, appear to be sebaceous, and are probably congenital. In the cases I have mentioned, the patients were under twenty years of age. In both 1 pulled out as much of the cyst- wall as I could, dissecting it from its bed, and in one with complete success. In the second a return followed, which called for another operation, which was crowned by a good result. I have never known any of these sublingual cysts require removal from below the jaw; though the sebaceous form might do so. In one of my cases I contem- plated this plan, and Sir W. Fergusson gives a case w'here it was adopted. It is probable, that plugging of the cyst, to set up suppura- tion, would be a simpler and equally efficacious practice. Salivary Calculus. The salivary ducts beneath the tongue may be obstructed in excep- tional cases, from the introduction of foreign bodies, but more commonly from calculus. Steno’s duct or that of the parotid may be thus affected, but the Whartonian or the sublingual salivary duct is that more commonly involved. When the obstruction is complete patients com- plain during deglutition, of pain in the corresponding salivary gland, with some swelling, such symptoms being clearly due_ to retained salivary secretion ; and these soon subside on the completion of masti- cation. In exceptional examples suppuration may attack the glana. The calculus depicted in Fig. 192 was taken from the sublingual duct of a man by my friend Mr. C. Sells, of Guildford, and weighed 8 grains.