331 aLAXrCOMA. of dimness of vision, objects appearing as if veiled by a greyish or yellow mist (London fog); in the later stages we may have a halo around a flame, or the appearance of a rainbow, and at times attacks of pain in and about the eyeball. Acute glaucoma usually commences suddenly with well-marked Acute inflammatory symptoms. The patient will state that he was seized glaucoma, (frequently during the night) with sudden severe pain in the eye; the pain will be described as affecting, not only the eyeball, but the whole of the corresponding side of the head, and he will have found that the sight of the painful eye is much impaired or entirely lost. On exa- mination the eyelids will be found slightly reddened and swollen, the conjunctiva somewhat chemosed, and its vessels, as well as those situated more deeply in the subconjunctival tissue, enlarged. There will be profuse lachrymation, and often much intolerance of light; the aqueous humour will very probably be somewhat turbid. The pupil will be dilated, somewhat irregular and flxed, and the tension of the globe greatly increased. On examination with the ophthalmoscope some of the appearances Oplithalmo- mentioned under simple glaucoma may be found, but the media will probably be so hazy as to obscure the parts behind, a dull-red reflection being all that can be made out. The acute symptoms may pass off" in the course of a few days or weeks, leaving the eye more or less permanently damaged. Similar attacks may recur, but more frequently the disease relapses into a chronic state. Chronic glaucoma, the form most commonly met with, is cbarac- Chronic terised by the occurrence of slight inflammatory attacks, associated glaucoma, with temporary increase of dimness of vision and more or less pain in and around the eyeball. On examination the field of vision will be found to be limited, the tension of the globe increased, and if the patient present himself during an inflammatory attack the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue will be found unduly vascular, the pupil somewhat dilated, and the movements of the iris sluggish. Ihe loss of vision, in cases of chronic glaucoma, is attended by Peculiar somewhat peculiar symptoms. Patients complain that their sight is affection of always somewhat misty, that there is an appearance of a bright halo around a candle or other flame, that they see colours resembling a rainbow, and often of great beauty, and occasionally flashes of light and fiery circles; these latter symptoms are, however, common to all forms of retinal irritation. Vision is always worst during the inflam- matory attacks and recovers to a certain extent during the remission, never, however, returning to the same condition as before the attack. ^ Ihe ophthalmoscope shows changes similar to those mentioned under simple glaucoma. Ihere is yet another form of glaucoma requiring mention, for- Glaucoma tunately rarely met with. Its principal characteristic is the extreme suddenness and violence of its onset; its symptoms resemble those of acute glaucoma in an aggravated form. This variety of glaucoma is known glaucoma fulminans, and the ej’e attacked by it may be entirely lost in the course of a few hours. The attack is ocMsionally accompanied by severe headache and vomiting. Glaucoma is essentially a disease of commencing old age, occurring