AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 405 day, for from three to eight weeks, after which an interval of a month I or more of rest is advisable before continuing their application. The injections through the elastic catheter, passing directly into the tym- panic cavity, ought to be much weaker. Should objections be made to the passing of the catheter, so that you cannot use it in passing fluids or vapours to the ear, the instruction of the patient in doing Valsalva’s method of inflating the tympanum, by which he may drive steam, impregnated with a little iodine and acetic ether, will serve the purpose. The method of doing so is as follows:— Having placed from ten to twenty drops of a solution consisting of equal parts of tincture of iodine and acetic ether in a pint of hot water, the patient inhales a mouthful of the steam, and, having closed the nostrils with the fingers, makes a violent expiration, keeping the mouth and nostrils firmly closed. The steam by this forcible expi- ration is driven against the walls of the naso-pharyugeal space and mouth, and the Eustachian tubes being the only spots for exit, rushes up these and fills the tympanic cavity, a sensation of fulness, and possibly warmth, being felt in the ear by the patient if the operation has succeeded. This ought to he done several times at a sitting, the patient swallowing between each inhalation. But should the Eustachian tubes be not rendered pervious by the force used, as is not unf requently the case when the mucous membrane is considerablj- swollen, the catheter must be resorted to, as by the passage of a current from an india-rubber bag directly through the catheter to the tube an obstruction which will not give way to Valsalva’s method will be overcome. The treatment of the naso-pharyngeal space consists in topical appli- cation to the mucous membrane of the space of astringents such as alum, tannin, or nitrate of silver. A very useful form is the drawing of a solution of alum up the nostrils, allowing it to pass back into the pharyngeal space, expectorating it, and then blowing the nose violently. When the alum is thought not sufficient for the condition present in the pharynx, a nitrate of silver solution of from 5ss—to the 5 of water applied to the pharynx, and especially to the membrane round the Eustachian regions, will be found a valuable agent. The patient being seated so that good light is thrown into the mouth, and the tongue being depressed by a tongue spatula or the index finger covered by a stall, he is desired to take a deep inspiration, at which moment the surgeon takes the opportunity to pass the brush, which has been dipped in the solution, to one of the Eustachian regions, and, making a half I'evolution upwards, passes over the whole roof of the space to the Eustachian region of the opposite side. The use of gargles at home between the applications of the caustic is to be recommended. Professor Gruber and others use what is called the nasal douche, by driving from a syringe, the nozzle of which fills one nostril, the other being closed by tbe fingers of the operator, a current of some astringent solution up one nostril and so into the other, the obstruction to its exit Ifrom the other nostril by the fingers regulating the force with which it acts on the pharyngeal walls. But it is so difficult* to regulate that force with the resistance of the Eustachian tubes, that the fluid may pass into the tympanic cavity with such a rush as sometimes to do serious damage, and accordingly I would not advise its being applied by those unaccustomed to its use. Method of inflating tympanum. Nasal douche.