288 NEURALGIA. Treatment. Neuralgia. Local cause. Example. of temperature or depression of the general power of the patient. When the ulnar nerve is completely paralysed, in which case atrophy of the muscles supplied by it ensues, the aspect of the hand is very character- istic, the wasting of the interosseous muscles, with the abductor indicia (also an interosseous), and all those of the little fingers, giving rise to a peculiar hollowing of the parts between the metacarpal bones which is typical. Nerves, when divided, do not, however, always reunite. When a piece has been removed, either by accident or by design, as in the operation for tic douloureux, the restoration of function is very rare, though it may occur. Treatment.—Bruised nerves are to be left alone, natural processes being, as a rule, amply sufficient to effect a cure. When recovery is slow and associated with pain in the injured part, the application of a small blister is beneficial. When a nerve is divided, it is well to put the divided ends as closely in contact as possible; to place the limb in such a position as will prevent any separation of the divided portion ; to keep the paralysed parts warm with cotton wool and of an equable temperature, and the whole limb at rest, until complete repair has taken place. The application of a suture to a divided nerve is a legitimate proceeding j though not, however, uniformly successful. Mr. Favell, of Sheffield, has, recently published some evidence in favour of the practice (“Address on Surgery,” ‘ British Medical Journal,’ August 5th, 1876), and Dr. Weir Mitchell has shown that in 120 cases of nerve section, regeneration of nerve took place in most in about six months (‘American Journal of Medical Science,’ April, 1876). When much nerve pain exists belladonna or opium rubbed dowm with glycerine is a nice ap- plication, and the hypodermic inj ection of morphia is often of much value. Neuralgia, tic douloureux. The subject of neuralgia belongs more properly to the physician than to the surgeon, yet the latter is often called upon to consider cases of this nature. The first point to determine is whether the pain is due to any local cause, and, if so, to remove it. Thus, a decayed tooth too often is the cause of pain in the course of branches of the fifth nerve, although the tooth may have neither ached nor exhibited any external evidence of decay. The pressure of a small tumour on a nerve, some irregularity in the bone, or a cicatrix involving a nerve, are causes which some- times require the surgeon’s interference to effect a cure. The follow- ing example illustrates these remarks:—A man, set. 41, came under my care in 1866 for severe pain down the anterior and outer por- tion of his left leg and foot, with almost complete paralysis of the extensor muscles. The symptoms had been coming on gradually for years, and had followed a severe w'ound sustained twelve years pre- viously, over the head of the fibula. There was a hard cicatrix over the head of the fibula, which clearly involved the external popliteal nerve. I made two deep vertical incisions on either side of the cica- trix, by this means taking tension off the nerve, and affording com- plete relief; six weeks later he was still well. Whenever neuralgic pain is associated with a cancerous tumour, or comes on after its removal, the surgeon should suspect the existence of some secondary cancerous deposit in the course of the sensory nerve. The great majority of cases of neuralgia, however, have a constitu- tional origin, and their cause is to be found in some hereditary ten- dency, in depression, anxiety, or some obvious derangement of health, .