OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS. 347 done, reunion may be prevented by passing a probe between the lids Narrowing of the palpebral aperture (Blepharophymosis) is usually Bleplmrophy- a result of granular ophthalmia, and is accompanied by entropion, niosis. displaced tear puncta, and consequent watering of the eye. It requires to be remedied by operation, which can be thus performed •—The lids Treatment, being kept widely open and on the stretch by a wire speculum (Fig. 97), an incision should be made with strong scissors through the outer canthus. A flap of conjunctiva, of somewhat conical shape, should then be marked out on the surface of the eyeball, the flap freely dissected from the subjacent structures, but left attached at its base, which is towards the cornea, and then fixed by sutures in the incision made by the scissors, in such a manner as to keep the raw edges separated by a mucous surface. Fig. 97. It is sometimes necessary to narrow or close entirely the palpebral aperture. This operation, known as tarsoraphy, can be performed as Tarsoraphy. 1 follows:—The lid being held with forceps, a portion of the inner edge ' of its margin should be removed with a small iridectomy knife, care being taken not to cut away any of the outer edge con- taining the lashes, nor to wound the tear puncta or canaliculi. The opposite lid should then be treated in the same manner, and the raw ■ edges brought together by sutures j firm union will soon take place ' between them. Ptosis signifies a drooping of the upper eyelid to a greater or less ptosis. ■ extent, with inability to raise it. Ptosis occurs with divergent stra- bismus and more or less impairment of the mobility of the eyeball, in cases of paralysis of the third nerve, and is generally, but not invariably, accompanied by dilatation and fixity of the pupil. It is also met with as a congenital defect, and occurs some- times after severe inflammation of the lid, or protracted intolerance of light, and constant spasmodic action of the orbicularis muscle. Women past the middle period of life, with a superabundance of loose skin about the face, are also subject to a form of partial ptosis. Treatment.—In ptosis from paralysis of tbe third nerve treatment Treatment, must be directed against the cause of the paralysis, no operation being advisable; other forms can be remedied by removal of some skin aud orbicularis muscle from the surface of the lid. The operation may be performed as follows:—The skin just above Operationfoi ' i the margin of the lid should be pinched up with forceps, the amount Ptosis, i included between their blades being such as to raise the margin of the 1