INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. 49G Progress and result. Treatment. Favour the circulation of the part. Attend to general health. When suppuration occurs. efficiently carried on, and that no stagnation exists sufficient to allow of passive serous exudation. When these cases proceed favorably the swelling will gradually subside, as will also every other symptom, the vein either recovering its normal condition, or the blood finding its way through other channels. When they go on unfavorably, suppuration will take place, and if the deep parts are involved, the case assumes a very serious aspect; as a local or a diffused abscess may result (the latter condition being the more common) and then blood poisoning too frequently ensues with its usual consequences. Treatment.'—The two great indications for treatment in these cases are (1) to favour the venous circulation of the fart, and (2) to improve the general condition of the patient. The first can be attained by elevation of the limb, the foot being raised higher than the hip, and, by the application of warmth to the part in the shape of fomentations or cotton wool. The^ second can be carried out by the administration of a simple nutritious diet, tonics, such as quinine, hark or iron, and stimulants carefully adjusted to the wants of the individual case. Pain must be allayed by both local and general means, as poppy fomentations, and the internal use of opium, morphia, or chloral. Leeching should never be resorted to, nor mercury in any of its forms, as the practice was based on a mistaken pathology, and there- fore should he discarded. ^ When suppui’ation appears it must he dealt with on ordinary prin- ciples, as it is wise, as a rule, to evacuate it as soon as it has declared itself. Gouty Phlebitis. (jouty Subjects who are gouty from hereditary or acquired causes are like- phlebitia. wise liable to adhesive phlebitis. Sir J. Paget has well described the afi'ection in his ‘ Clinical Lectures,’ 1875 ; and Mr. Gay has also written ably upon it (‘ Lancet,’ May 19th, 1877) :—“ In such cases the phlebitis may have no intrinsic characters by which to distinguish it, yet not rarely it has peculiar marks, especially in its symmetry, apparent metastases, and frequent recurrences.” Like other forms of phlebitis is it more common in the lower than in the upper extremities, yet it may be found anywhere. It affects, however, the superficial rather than the deep veins, and often occurs in patches, affecting on one day (for example) a short piece of the saphenous vein, and, the next another piece of the same, some other distant vein, or, a corresponding piece of the opposite vein. The inflamed portions of vein usually feel hard, and are painful to the touch. The soft parts covering the vein become slightly thickened, and often have a dusky reddish tint. When the deep veins are in- volved, oedema appears with the well-recognised results of venous obstruction, “the limb becomes big, clumsy, featureless, heavy, and stiff; its skin is cool and may be pale, but more often it has a partial slight livid tint, which might he discerned by comparison with the other limb, and has mottlings from small cutaneous veins visibly dis- tended.” The limb thus enlarged feels cedematous throughout; but