INJURIES OF THE BRAIN COMPLICATING FRACTURE. 215 I he got delirious aud confused in mind, and became in time hopelessly insane. Such instances might be multiplied endlessly, all pointing to the supreme importance of injuries to the head, however slight the imme- diate symptoms. The reader may find this subject well discussed and illustrated by Dr. J. C. Browne in the first volume of the ‘ West Riding ' Asylum Reports,’ in Abercrombie’s works, and elsewhere. It may be laid down as a principle that persons with any hereditary predisposition to insanity or nervous disease are more liable to suffer from cranial injuries than others; whilst the temperate have a better chance of escape than those addicted to excesses of any sort. Dr. J. C. Browne says in the report already alluded to, “We are justi- fied in concluding that concussion may exert its worst influence without any organic change which is capable of being detected. Everything points to the conclusion that the evil of concussion really consists in ' what may be called dynamical changes in the nerve-cells and their con- necting fibrils.” INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES COMPLICATING FRACTURE. When the student has recognised the fact that a blow upon the head, not complicated with fracture, is capable of producing, by concussion ' of the brain, injuries such as have been sketched in the previous pages, he will be quite ready to understand that a blow upon the head complicated with fracture is likely to be followed by results that are at least equally severe. He must know that, as the force required to pro- duce a fracture of the skull is either more violent or more concentrated than that required to produce what has been described as a concussion of the brain, so there are other complications which are frequently asso- ciated with or are peculiar to fracture, such as depression of bone pro- I ducing compression of the brain, extravasation of blood external to the I dura mater from rupture of the middle meningeal artery, injury to the i dura mater or membranes, and direct injury to the braiu. He must Fracture also be aware of the fact that a fracture of the skull may take place witliout bmin I without producing any cerebi’al disturbance j for example— complication. A man, mt. 27, received a blow over the vertex from a broken sword. Incised f An extensive scalp wound was the result, aud a very evident incised I wound in the upper portion of the frontal bone, apparently involving ° ** ' only the external table. It was not complicated with the slightest I cerebral disturbance, and good recovery followed. A boy received a compound fracture over the frontal region from the Compound kick of a horse; he had no head symptoms whatever, and recovered, fracture of In the former case there was an incised wound of the skull, and Iin the latter an undepressed compound fracture. In neither was the bruin injury. brain shaken, bruised, or otherwise injured, and in both a good re- < covery ensued. Cases such as these, however, are comparatively f rare; the more frequent being examples of fractured skull associated Fracture of t with brain sj'mptoms similar to those which have been described skull and I under the head of simple concussion; cases in which the func- tions of the brain are for a time more or less interfered with or sus- pended, but which have a tendency gradually to return to their normal condition; in which the injury to the skull has been severe enough to