397 AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. [jections, the pressure of foreign bodies, the passage of cold currents ,,of air or water, the noii-drying of the ear and hair round it thoroughly iafter washing, the presence of fungi, and, in short, anything causing ja congestion and irritation of the lining membranes of the meatus, i The affection may run its course in ten or fourteen days if the ipurulent stage has not been reached, but that stage having super- Uvened it lasts from five to eight weeks generally. d The prognosis in a usual primary case under treatment is favorable. Prognosis. I but relapses are common. Tlie form following an acute exanthem is ivery different, as should the middle-ear inflammatory process be well developed, and the membrane much affected, the chances of saving an il entire membrane are lessened. d The treatment is etiological. If there are foreign bodies present Treatment. ^ their removal demands your first attention, and after this the preven- jtion of any purulent accumulation and the use of frequent injections of warm water are the chief treatment. Should the swelling be great, ll'scarification of the meatus, or an incision and abstraction of blood by the vacuum speculum, seems to be of more use than any other means in causing a speedy subsidence of the thickened membranes, which you may also assist by keeping up a pressure on the circumference of the canal by charpie gently pressed into the meatus, being careful that the charpie is frequently renewed and the meatus cleared of discharge. What is called Wilde’s incision, from its having been first brought into Wilde’s notice by Sir William Wilde, is a favourite means of remedy with some, incisiou. and in the relief of pain, or as a means of giving exit to any exudation which may have passed towards the mastoid process, is very useful. It consists in making an incision down to the bone over the mastoid process, at a distance of from half to three quarters of an inch from the auricle, carefully avoiding, if possible, severing the posterior auricular artery. The application of leeches in front of the tragns (shonld the patient be too timid to allow of the abstraction of blood by incision or *■ scarification) is advisable where the pain is severe. During the painful stage no strong astringent lotions must be used, those of a sedative nature being preferred, as morphia, in the strength of gr.j to aq. dest. Jss, or sulphate of atropine gr. ij to This stage being passed, the <|use of the customary astringent lotions—alum, sulphate of copper, i sulphate of zinc, in solutions of from one to four grains to the ounce, lor nitrate of silver of from ten to twenty grains to the ounce—are, 4 with attention to any complication of the middle-ear apparatus and to 8 the diathesis present, sufficient to ensure a favorable course. Should ^the afEection have assumed the chronic form, stronger solutions of the 8 istringcnts mentioned ought to be employed; and the keeping up of a II 30unter-irritation behind the mastoid by tincture of iodine, cantha- > .'ides ointment, or other irritant, will be found serviceable. Polypus. ft Aural polypi generally show themselves during a chronic purulent Polypus, nilscharge from the tympanic cavity or external meatus, and are Oiot only caused by such a discharge, but are themselves a means J )f increasing it by furnishing an additional secreting surface, and, by 'S preventing the exit of discharge, keeping the parts pressed upon by '(|>he pus in an unhealthy irritable condition. They are of different forms «ind appearances, being of a lively red, rich in blood, soft and easily