SYPHILIS. 85 J the patient is re-estahlished ; yet it is equally true that in such cases, a after the lapse of years, even a quarter of a century, when, under some 1 weakening influence by which the powers of the patient are reduced; ij by some local disease, such as an ulcer, the existence of former syphilis 'i is again recognised. So long as the powers of the subject who had f syphilis remain good, no evidence existed of its presence; but when J these failed, the poison reasserted its claim to recognition. It must, ^ however, be stated with considerable confidence that Nature, unas- ( sisted by art, seems incapable of eliminating the disease, or of arresting tj its progress. In former times it was thought that in mercury the surgeon pos- On use of I sessed a specific against the disease, and when all chancres were looked mercury. I upon as syphilitic, and mercui’y was administered, a large proportion of supposed cures were recorded, no constitutional symptoms showing themselves. In modern times, however, when it is known that at least three out of every four cases of chancres of the penis are local venereal affections and not syphilitic, the supposed success of the mercurial plan is not recognised; although in syphilis—that is, when the constitutional (evidence of the disease is present—the power of mercury in getting rid of the symptoms is indisputable. In strong and healthy subjects, therefore, when syphilis is present i either in the form of skin eruption, sore throat, or other affection of the i mucous membrane of the intestinal or respiratory tract, mercury is I beneficial. The best mode of using it is generally supposed to be by Mercury by I inunction, the rubbing in of mercurial ointment, about the size of a nut, inunction, into the axilla twice a day, till the gums are touched, and after then only once a day. Dr. B. G. Babington recommended its being applied in adults to the soles of the feet, the rubbing in being performed by the action of walking. The internal administration in bark of the Given bichloride of mercury in doses of -fa-th of a grain three times a day, is internally, a good form of administration, as is also the green iodide of mercury in grain doses twice a day, with Dover’s pill. Some surgeons still use the blue pill with opium. During the last five or six years I have been using the mercurial suppository twice a day, and have been greatly As a satisfied with its action; the drug acts as well this way as by the suppository, mouth, and in no way interferes with digestion or the functions of the i abdominal viscera; indeed, I am disposed to think it by far the best 11 mode of administering mercury. I know of no objection to its use. / Next to this plan the calomel vapour bath is the best, j The most convenient calomel vapour bath, writes Lee (‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ ed. 2nd, vol. i), is one which was made at my request by Mr. vapour bath, t Blaise. In this apparatus the lamp which sublimes the calomel boils I the water at the same time. In the centre of the top, immediately " over the wick of the lamp, is a small, separate, circular tin plate, on V which the calomel is placed; around this is a circular depression, which » may be filled one third with boiling water; the apparatus being ‘j placed on the ground and the lamp lighted. The patient then sits over J it, with an American cloth cloak or mackintosh fastened round his neck, h He thus becomes surrounded with calomel vapour, which he is generally 1 directed to inhale for Wo or three separate minutes during each bath. I In doing this the patient should not put his head uuder the cloak, but ' simply allow some of the vapour to escape from the upper part, and