ON REPAIR AND INFLAMMATION. 10 |!| p! (i I, Formation of connective tissue. Changes in capillaries. Influence of nerve on reparation. itself, as Virchow affirms, or whether the cells are the white corpuscles of the blood which have escaped by exudation from the capillaries, as Cohnheim would lead us to believe, I do not now care to inquire. All admit, however, the multiplication of cells in the affected tissues (vide fig. 1). Professor Redfern writes (address at British Association, 1874<), “ the facts must be recognised; the floating blood-cells are really the very cells which once formed the substance of the lymphatic glands, the spleen, and other organs; and they do, in fact, move through the walls of the blood passages, and wander about freely in what are called solid tissues.” When we recollect how penetrable the tissues of an animal are, we shall cease to be startled at seeing those parts be- come the seat of entirely new deposits, or finding them traversed by migrating blood-corpuscles as freely as a colloid is penetrated by a crystalloid. Let us now inquire briefly how cicatrisation proceeds, and note that it is in the cells that the most important changes are to be recognised. Those nearest the injured part gradually assume a spindle shape, and the intercellular tissue into which these spindle-shaped cells are infiltrated becomes denser. The spindle-shaped cells then gradually change into ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles, and in this \vay new cicatricial tissue is formed. This new tissue, however, again undergoes changes— changes of consolidation. The intercellular tissue becomes gradually more condensed — the spindle shaped cells also assuming the flat shape of connective-tissue corpuscles, and in a measure disappearing, the nucleus often alone remaining—the fluid that existed in the newly formed tissue is absorbed, and the new cicatrix by degrees thus becomes firmer and denser, gradually contracting, so that at last the delicate scar of a large wound becomes solid and compact—the cicatrix in smaller wounds appearing only as a thin red, and at a later period as a white line. Changes in the capillaries of the part are, however, going on during all this period, and how far all the changes that have been briefly described are due directly to the capillary action is not yet determined. If Cohnheim’s views be adopted, it is to the capillaries that the chief action in the tissues must be ascribed. According to those of patho- logists, such as Virchow and Billroth, the capillary action takes a secondary place, the cell elements the leading one. But on either theory the importance of the capillaries cannot be overlooked. With regard to the changes in the capillaries, it has been already pointed out how at the beginning of the reparative process those of the part become sealed, and the collateral circulation in the neighbour- hood becomes irregular and pressed upon; and how the coagula in these obliterated capillaries become reabsorbed or possibly reorganised as repair progresses. It is certain that the capillary network soon becomes continuous through the newly formed cicatricial tissue, the capillary meshes of the one side joining, by loops projected through the new tissue, the same meshes of the opposite one. Wkat influence the nerves of the part have upon the reparative process we do not know. That they have an important influence there can be little doubt, since all physiologists recognise their power upon secretion and nutrition ; the vaso-motor nerves doubtless have the greiiter power. But we must learn something more of nerve power generally and nerve distribution—something of the way in which the