94 TUMOURS. Vaccino- syphilis. References. Prevention. General remarks. long marking whicli it entails upon the patient.” (‘Med. Chir. Trans.,’ vol. 1.) Vaccino-syphilis. That syphilis may be transferred by means of vaccination is a fact which must be honestly recognised, although where it has occurred it seems more than probable that something more than the uumixed lymph of the genuine vaccine vesicle had been employed, such as the blood of the vaccinifer; for no one can now w^ell dispute the possi- bility of inoculating syphilis when the blood of a syphilitic vaccinifer is transferred with the vaccine matter to a non-syphilitic subject. Whether it be possible to transfer syphilis through unmixed vaccine lymph is still an open question. In this country, such a misfortune as a syphilitic inoculation through vaccination has been happily rare, and only in recent days has the attention of the great body of the profession been directed to the subject. In Mi’. Hutchinson’s paper, and in the report of the Med.-Chir. Society for 1871, there will be found sufficient material to prove the truth of what has been written; and in Dr. Seaton’s ‘ Handbook on Vaccination,’ and in Dr. Ballard’s work, all that is known on the subject may be ascertained. To guard against the possibility of repeating these errors, the vac- cinator should be careful to transfer only the unmixed vaccine matter; he should select also, when possible, a healthy vaccinifer, who is the second child of a woman whose firstborn is healthy, and in whom there is no history of miscarriages. When any suspicion of syphilis exists in either parent, the child of such parents should be set aside and not used as a vaccinifer, however healthy and perfect the vaccine vesicle may be. The cleanest instrument should be used, and the same should never be employed for a second operation until washed. It would be also well, for the purpose of keeping up a good supply of vaccine, occa- sionally to vaccinate direct from the heifer. With these precautions vaccination may be regarded as a perfectly safe operation. Without them the risks of syphilitic inoculation, although slight, exist. They tell, however, but little against the enormous advantages of vaccination. Lee, ‘ Holmes’s System,’ ed. 2, vol. ii.—Marston, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlv-vi.— La}te and Gascoyen, ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. 1.—Bumstead, ‘Edit, of Cullerier,’ Phila- delphia, 1868.—Porter, ‘Dublin Quart.,’ 1857.—Lancereaux, ‘On Syphilis,’ New Syd. goc.— Wallace, ‘ On Venereal.’—Carmichael, ‘On Venereal.’—Hw^e/finiOM, ‘Syphihtic Diseases of Eye and Teeth.—‘ Report of Committee on Venereal Diseases,’ 1868.— Tvrenne, Acad6mie des Sciences, 1850.—Boeck, ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1858.—‘Dublin Journal,’ 1857. CHAPTER III. TUMOURS. In the pre-pathological period, before the minute anatomy of healthy and diseased tissues was understood, and the microscope had ren- dered intelligible subjects that still rested in darkness, ttimours had, from necessity, been studied simply in their clinical aspects, and surgeons, in their attempts to classify them, were guided solely by the most obvious characteristics of the growths, and by their real or fancied resemblance to the natural tissues of the body. As time advanced, more ambitious attempts at classification were made, and the most