342 OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS. Pressure. Insertion of setuu. Wound of temporal artery. Artificial leech. Molluscum. Congenital sel)aceous cyst. is a prominent symptom, even though the patient does not appear to have much blood to lose. Strong healthy patients should be leeched freely, and kept on light diet. During the treatment the eye must he kept carefully closed and bandaged, excepting during the time that fomentations are being applied. Moderate pressure by carefully applied pads of lint and cotton wool, secured by a few turns of flannel bandage, is said to exert considerable influence in cases where the cornea is threatened by sup- puration ; it should have a fair trial, if pressure can be borne. If the inflammation go on to suppuration of the whole globe the case must be treated in the same manner as abscess in any other part. {See Ophthalmitis.) Insertion of a seton in the temple.—In order to place a seton in the temple, the position of patient and operator should be as in Fig. 93, p. 340. The operator should pinch up the skin with the finger and thumb of one hand, just in front of the patient’s ear, and pass a seton needle armed with a double thread of stout silk through the fold thus produced; the silk should be drawn through and tied in a short loop. The seton should pass for about in. beneath the skin, and should be placed amongst the hair, so as to avoid as much as possible disfigure- ment from the subsequent cicatrix; the silk should be drawn back- wards and forwards through the wound every morning; it may be left in as long as appears necessary. Care must be taken in passing the needle not to wound the temporal artery; should this accident happen the seton must be removed and firm pressure applied with a pad and bandage. Application of the artificial leech.—This instrument consists of a small sharp steel cjdinder (worked by a spring arrangement), with which a circular incision can be made through the skin of the temple, and a hollow glass cylinder, which can be placed over the wound, and the air in its interior exhausted by means of a piston worked by a screw; as the air is removed the blood flows up to fill the vacuum. Care must be taken not to work the screw too quickly, but only to move the piston at the same rate as the blood flows; neither must the edge of the cylinder be allowed to compress the skin against the parts beneath, otherwise the flow of blood will be impeded. THE EYELIDS. Tumours.—Various small growths are met with about the eyelids. Molluscum occurs as a small yellowish-white projection, having a depressed and often blackened centre, situated on some part of the skin of the lids; there may be only one or many of these little growths. They can be easily removed by thrusting a knife through them, and then squeezing out the contents with the thumb nails. Dermoid cysts are not unfrequently met with situated deeply beneath the skin and muscle, often near the outer angle of the orbit. They arc congenital, filled with sebaceous matter, and often contain hair. They must be carefully dissected out, much more trouble being experienced in so doing than would be at first suspected, and they will in all probability be opened during removal. These little tumours will be found attached deeply to the periosteum, and may have caused a depression in the bone.