I The section of a soft differs 122 CANCEROUS TUMOURS. Wlieii (ittackinp; tlie lymphatics. Appearance ou section. Lobulated. Material composing these cancers Yield juice on pressure. In cancer of the lymphatic glands these tumours develope to a large size. In the neck, axilla, and abdomen they appear when fully formed as fixed semifluctuating growths with the ordinary characteristics already described; and at first may be as movable as any gland. When they appear in the 23. parotid region they usually if not always produce para- lysis of the facial nerve; a clinical symptom I think I may say never found in the ordinary innocent paro- tid tumour; so that when present, this symptom is of value. As a rule, how- ever, this soft cancer sur- rounds nerves and vessels without materially pressing upon them; large vessels and nerves being often found passing completely through their substance. from that of a hard cancer, as the “ infiltrating ” differs from the “ tuberous ” (com- pare Figs. 402 and 403); and differs also very mate- rially in itself at different Cancer of bone. (Prep. Guy’s Mus.) times. It may be firm or nearly fluid; white and creamy, or red and blood-stained. It may be soft from inflammatory action or degenerating from natural decay. Under all circumstances, however, it will be divided into lobules; fibrous septa or fibrous envelopes separating these lobules from one another, as the fibrous capsule of the parent growth separated it from the other tissues. The material composing these cancers, says Paget, “ is a peculiar, soft, close-textured substance, having very little toughness, easily crushed and spread out by compression with the fingers. It is very often truly brainlike, most like foetal brain, or like adult brain par- tially decomposed and crushed. Many specimens are, however, much softer than brain, and many, though of nearly the consistence of brain, are unlike it, being grumous, pulpy, shreddy, or spongy, like a placenta with fine soft filaments. Very few have a distinct appearance of fibrous or other regular structure.” These tumours when pressed or scraped yield abundant “ cancer juice,” and such juice is generally diffusible in water. No better rough test, says Paget, exists for the diagnosis of medullary cancers than this. The stroma of this cancer element is filamentous, and more or less condensed ; it is also generally very vascular. The cell element always predominates, but the cells in no way differ in character from those found in the fibrous or scirrhous form. They are, however, less closely packed together, and seem to be suspended in the juices