6 INTEODTTCTION. must likewise be admitted that a local disease in a strumous subject," may be as amenable to treatment as it is in a more healthy one. The treatment may indeed require some modification from the fact of its occurring in such a subject, but the principles of practice in both, the strumous and the nou-strumous, are the same, although we know that in the former all diseased action is of a low type, and that there is always a greater tendency to degenerative changes than we find in other subjects. Some pathologists have been bold enough to say that the scrofulous diathesis is the consequence of hereditary syphilis, but evidence is wanting to substantiate this view. Hsemor- Haemophilia, or the hemorrhagic diathesis, is a subject of peculiar r lagic. interest to the surgeon. That it is generally hereditary there can be no doubt, and in some instances it afEects several members of the same family. It is shown by a peculiar tendency to bleeding on the slightest provocation, and by the difificulty there is in arresting haemorrhage when it does take place. The surgeon should always have before him the possibility of his patient being a subject of this diathesis; for although it would not prevent the performance of any operation essen- tial to save life, it would materially affect the question of operating for any reason of expediency, and would influence the practice adopted. The bleeding may take place from any part of the body, or into any cavity. It may be venous or arterial and may occur wdthout any definite cause, or follow some slight injury. Sir W. Jenner states that in these cases “ the tissues are soft and bruise easily ; the blood is slow in coagulating, although it coagulates as firmly as in health; that is, blood is formed rapidly, and there is a tendency to plethora of the small vessels, and that when the patient is looking his best, injuries bave the worst effect, and spontaneous haemorrhages are most likely to occur.” In this disease, therefore, he advises a mercurial and saline purge every three weeks, dry food, with a considerable portion of dry fibrinous meats, and plenty of open-air exercise; great care being ob- served to avoid injuries. A few words now respecting cachexicB, On cachexia-. Do they exist ? Is there any definite aspect associated with any definite disease ? Is there a cancerous cachexia ? I have little hesitation in stating that in practice no such thing can be established, and, that a large number of patients sufiering from cancer are as healthy looking as any other class, if not often healthier. There can be no doubt that a patient, suffering from c.ancer which, by its discharges or development, interferes with the important functions of life, and undermines his powers, has an anxious, drawn, bloodless, and waxy appearance; but so has the subject of any organic disease which interferes with the functions of digestion and assimilation, and par- ticularly the subject of intestinal disease. The patient exhausted by suppuration, by spinal, bone, or joint mischief; the man or woman who from drink, syphilis, or mercury (separately or combined), is gradually being brought down to death’s door, has a cachexia more or less pecu- liar according to the organ involved in the disease, and the special constitution of the patient; but it is merely the condition of looking ill. Clinically, I read the meaning of a cachexia as “looking ill,” perhaps very ill, from some long-standing or slowly-acting cause; but it has no other definite signification than “looking ill” from cancer, “looking ill” from abdominal, rectal, suppiu-ative,or syphilitic disease.