66 HECTIC EEVER. Treatment. Question of operation. In the early stage of this disease, letween the paroxysms, there may he no fever. The tongue, dry during the attack, will be moist and clean, but, towards the close, becomes morbidly red, smooth, and sore, with aphthous ulceration. The appetite and digestive organs are rarely much affected; indeed, they are little altered till the general powers are failing rapidly. The skin, at first supple and moist between the attacks, becomes as the disease progresses harsh, dry, and covered with branny scales. The urine, always scanty and high coloured, is more so towards the close of the disease. The bowels are sometimes constipated, but more frequently loose. Throughout the disease, however, the mental faculties remain unimpaired, even when the bodily powers are reduced to a minimum. During the whole disease sleep is usually obtained between the attacks. Death always ensues from exhaustion, and bed-sores too frequently form, adding to the sufferings of the patient. Teeatment.—The removal of the cause of the disease is the only means by which a cure can be effected. As the affection is one purely of exhaustion, the object must be to maintain the strength of the patient in every way by the administration of abundance of simple nutritious food, with stimulants carefully adjusted to the special w^auts of the case. The former should be given at certain short intervals in small quantities, and the latter in sufficient quanti- ties to aid digestion. Tonic medicine should always be given, quinine probably being the best, as this drug has, doubtless, a power in checking febrile action, in keeping down the temperature of the body, and in preventing sweats. It should be given in a full dose, five grains in the solid form, before the paroxysm. Iron and strychnine are also valuable drugs, and the extract of belladonna in doses of half a grain or more com- bined with the tonic is of great value. Diarrhoea, when present, should be checked by astringents, but opium should be sparingly employed, except to relieve pain. With respeet to the removal of the cause of the disease by operation when such is possible, there can be no difference of opinion among surgeons; for hectic is a proof that nature’s reparative powers have been found wanting in their efforts to cure the local affection, and' under these circumstances the surgeon’s duty doubtless lies in operative interference. If the disease can be removed, this should be done, and delay is almost criminal. Let the source of irritation, or weakness, be removed, and it is wonderful how rapidly the most feeble subject may rally after the operation. If the viscera are sound, good hopes of a recovery may be entertained under apparently the most adverse conditions; but if the kidneys are diseased, the prospects of recovery are feeble. Moxon ‘Guy’s Hosp. Reports.’ 1871.—‘Guy’s Hosp. Reports’ for 1861 and 1870.—Xee, " On Phlebitis,” ‘ Practical Pathology.’—and Savory, ‘ St. Bart. Re- ports,’ vols. i and li, W65-6.—Virchow, ‘Cellular Pathology.’—PicI', ‘St. George’s Hosp. Reports,’ vol. m.—liillroth. Dr. Th., ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Chirurgie ’ (Laugenbeck’s), B ii vi, viii, \\.—Bristowe, ‘ Trans. Path. Soc. Bond.,’ vol. xiii. Reynolds’s ‘ System of Medicine.’—Roier, ‘ Sydenham Soc. Year-Book,’ 1868, p. 192.—Pro/. 0. IVeber, ‘ Berl. Klin. ■Wocliensclir,’ 1864. ‘Year-Book,’ 1864, n. Zil.—Gibson, ‘Brit, and For. Mcd.- Chir. Rev.,’ Jan., Callender, Holmes’s ‘ Syst. of Surg..’ 2nd edit., vol. i.—Sedillot, ‘ On Pytemia,’ Ibi^.—Arnott, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. .—Bruidwood, ‘ On Pyiemia,’ 1865 —Griesinger, “On Leukmmia and Pytemia,” Discussion at CUn. Soc., 1874.