OPERATIONS ON VEINS. 503 bandage from below upwards should be maintained, or an elastic stock- ing worn, and, in the course of time, the extent of which greatly varies, a cure may be effected and maintained. During this time, the general treatment must not be neglected. General. Where the powers are feeble, tonics must be given, and of these, iron is the best; twenty drops of the tincture of the perchloride, with ten of the tincture of nux vomica being an excellent compound. A generous diet must be given when indicated, and the reverse where the portal system has been overgorged by excess. Mild aperi- ents are always of value under these circumstances, salines being pre- ferable to the purgative extracts. The natural waters are of great value. When rest cannot be given, well-applied pressure must be relied Pressure, upon, the best forma being a pad of cotton wool over the part with a bandage of Dommett’s or elastic tissue, applied from the toes upwards, or good strapping eveuly applied. The patient must be impressed, however, with the necessity of assuming the horizontal position ai much as he can; aiding the circulation by friction as already iixlicated, and by general treatment. The bandage should always be out on before the legs are moved off the bed, and removed only after the recumbent position is again resumed. In bad rases of local varix, the pressure may be more local and per- manent ; 8 pad of cotton wool well fixed on by strapping being very I valuable. When the veins are inflamed, they must be treated on prin- I ciples alretdy laid down in the chapter on phlebitis. If a veil burst, bleeding can be controlled by the application of When vein a finger t) the spot, and any further flow is prevented by the eleva- tion of tie limb. A pad carefully adjusted to the bleeding point and fixed iy strapping applied like a bandage or by a roller, makes the patient safe. Operations for Varicose Disease of the Veins. It has bien observed, that nature not unfrequeutly obliterates a vari- Natural cose vein ly means of a coagulum which subsequently contracts and even ° organizes,he clot and vein together forming an impervious cord. Acting on this kmwledge, surgeons now endeavour to make use of nature’s Surgical processes, ind, by artificial means, to induce coagulation of the blood in ° some porton of the varicose vessel with the hope that it may contract; obiiterutiou. or, so to distroy some part of the vein itself as to compel the circulation to find amther course. This is the so-called “ radical cure”—but it is to ■J be thouglt of only, as Mr. Gay so truly says, when the vein is hope- 4 lessly deteriorated, or so inflamed and painful as to threaten to burst; ’) or, in case in which all palliative and other treatment is inapplicable 1 or has faiad. 9 Caustio were employed by Mayo for this purpose, and also by Caustics. 0 Brodie, toy, and others. They should be thus applied :—A small piece of Vienia paste (composed of four parts of potassa fusa and four of li quicklime made into a paste with spirits of wine prior to its applica- ■T tion), or hloride of zinc paste of the size of a small pea, should be ap- » plied upci the vein—the surrounding skin being previously protected by 1 a ring o' plaster carefully adjusted; the paste should be fixed on and t left, the object being to cause a slough through the tissues into the li vein, liis slough should not be large, but three, four, or more q applicatms may be simultaneously made about an inch apart, in order i