OBTUEATOK HEENIA. 683 are returned. The after-treatment of the case is to be based upon the principles which have been already laid down. Obturator Hernia, On obturator or hernia through the foramen of that name, deserves a notice, hernia, as its successful treatment can only follow its diagnosis. It is more common in females than in males, and is often unattended by any Its rarity, external evidences of its existence. Birkett has collected twenty-five examples of this aflection; though in fourteen the hernia was not discovered till after death. In three only was a successful operation performed ; by Obre in 1851, Bransby Cooper in 1853, and Lorinson in 1857. Mr. Cooper’s case I had the good fortune to see. The sac of the hernia is always “ acquired.” It emerges in the The sac thigh beneath the pectineus and between the adductor longus and “^'^aysan femoral vessels. The hernia is consequently on a lower level than ^ the femoral, and comes forward instead of downward. An obturator Diaguoais. hernia is not, however, always to be felt, and a diagnosis has conse- quently to be made out of the general symptoms; and of these, fain in the course and distribution of the obturator nerve is the most marked. It is not, however, always present. In several of the recorded cases, during the development of the hernia, the pain described as “ spasmodic contraction of the abdominal muscles” existed, and this fact is explained by Birkett in recalling the association there is between this nerve and the muscular filaments distributed on the abdominal muscles, all being branches of the lumbar plexus. Birkett also observed that movement of the hip-joint in the afiected side excites or aggravates the pain, so does deep local pressure, and pelvic examination, either per vaginam or rectum. In the following case, however, which came under my care in 1875, none of these symptoms were present, though a fixed pain in the left iliac fossa existed. Susan G—, ast. 65, a married woman. Case, was admitted under my care into Guy’s Hospital on the 26th !May, 1875. She had enjoyed excellent health till 1871, when one morning, after considerable exertion, she experienced great pain in the left side, and was able to sit down only with difficulty. The medical man who saw her said that she had a hernia, but that it had gone up. Her health after this remained indifferent, though she was able to go about till six months before her admission, when she passed no motion for nine days and was very sick. Purgative draughts, however, acted upon the bowels very freely, and she convalesced. She then continued well until ten days before her admission. At that time no motion had passed for ten days, she had continually vomited, looked very unhealthy, much emaciated and yellowish, was cold and collapsed, the abdomen being somewhat distended, with visible coils of small intestine and peristalsis. She also complained of diffused abdominal pain. No grow’th could be detected in the rectum. Opium was administered, and warm fomenta- tions applied to the abdomen with relief, and, after four days, the bowels acted twice spontaneously, and subsequently she had repeated loose evacuations. She left the hospital convalescent though much emaciated, on Juno 15th, 1875, nineteen days after her admission. She was, however, re-admitted on December 26th of the same year, having remained quite well till December 3rd, though for the last three months she had been in much reduced circumstances. On December 3rd she was again violently sick, and had much pain