INGUINAL HERNIA, 676 : Diagnosis ol ■ inguinal hernia. Hydrocele and its varieties. Varicocele. Undescended testicle. Hernia ard hydrocele combined. old age. A hernia that has formed suddenly, and passed at once into the scrotum, is probably of the “ congenital;” whereas one that has been pro- duced slowly is more likely to be of the “ acquired” form. When the hernial tumour envelops the testicle and renders its detection impossible or difficult, the “ congenital form” is indicated. When the testicle is in its right place and distinct from the hernial sac, the “ acquired.” A hernia with a long tubular neck occupying the inguinal canal is probably of the ” congenital” kind, a short thick neck being more common in the “ acquired.” The youth of the patient, the rapidity of its formation, and its close connection with the testicle, are the three chief points characteristic of the “ congenital” form of hernia. The age of the patient, the slow- ness of its production, and its distinct separation from the testicle, the three points indicative of the “ acquired.” The diagnosis of an inguinal hernia from other tumours is only diffi- cult in exceptional cases. No scrotal tumour beginning in the scrotum and developing upwards can be a hernia, for all hernim descend towards the scrotum. So, when a distinct separation exists between the scrotal tumour and the external ring no difficulty in diagnosis ought to be experienced. In this way ordinary hydroceles, hEematoceles, and all diseases of the testicle are excluded. When a hydrocele, however, passes through the external up to the internal ring, a condition by no means uncommon in infancy and young adult life when the vaginal process of peritoneum is only closed at its abdominal orifice, some difficulty may be experienced; but in the absence of all symptoms of hernia, the translucency of the tumour, and the history of the case, viz. that the swelling began below and travelled upwards, are sufficient to point out the nature of the affection. Congenital hydroceles into the vaginal process are to be distin- guished from congenital hernia by their transparency, by the gradual filling of the sac, and by their vibration on percussion, whereas a hernia is opaque, enters the sac rapidly, leaves it quickly, and does not vibrate. An encysted hydrocele of the cord appears as a tense, fluctuating, transparent, irreducible, tumour, and ought not to be confused with a bubonocele when no other symptoms of hernia exist beyond the swelling. The wormy feel of a varicocele or varicose spermatic veins, and the fact that pressure sufficient to keep any hernia in position with the patient erect over the external ring renders the varicose veins more marked, should prevent it being mistaken for a hernia. And if the surgeon would only look for the two testicles in every case of scrotal or even inguinal swelling, he could not fall into the error of mis- taking an undescended testicle, or one resting at the internal ring or in the inguinal canal, for a hernia or any other disease. When a hernia and hydrocele coexist, some difficulty may be ex- perienced in the diagnosis; but, as each affection has its own symptoms, the diagnosis ought not to be very difficult. Whenever a doubt in diagnosis is felt about an inguinal tumour and symptoms of a strangulated hernia are present, the golden rule in surgery should be observed, and the doubtful tumour explored. 1 had an interesting ease (Feb., 1872) with the Messrs. Toulmin of Clapton, illustrating this, in a boy, set. 4, who had an acute hydro- cele asssociated with a sudden descent of a hernia into the vaginal process of the peritoneum of the cord. I tapped the hydrocele and left