633 AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE. I food would pass into the larynx. Cases are on record in which it has been found necessary to enlarge this opening, and even to open the trachea to maintain life. Under such circumstances it is probably a wise maxim always to open the windpipe before any operative inter- i ference is undertaken in order to enlarge the pharyngeal opening. Tumours of the palate or new growths are rarely seen. I have met Tumom-s of with several cases of warty growths, simple and malignant, and in palate. ‘ Guy’s Eeports,’ 1869, I have recorded an interesting case of myxoma which covered the whole of the hard palate, and was cured by removal. In August, 1872,1 also removed from the soft palate of a man aet. : 38, a globular fibrous tumour of six years’ growth the size of an un- i shelled walnut, which had been for six weeks seriously interfering with ■ deglutition and respiration. I enncleated the growth after making a free incision into its capsule, having previously been obliged to per- I form tracheotomy to prevent suffocation. In this case, I employed I)r. Trendelenburg’s tracheal tampon (Fig. 205), and found it of great I value. It effectually prevented the entry ' of blood into the air-passages, allowed I the patient to be kept under the in- fluence of chloroform, and enabled me to complete the operation with facility and safety. (Vide ‘Med. Times and : Gaz.,’ May, 1872.) The majority of cases of tumours that involve the palate, spread from the gums or upper jaw. Elongation of the uvula from inflammatory oedema is sometimes a very acute affection. It comes on rapidly at times, and gives rise to suf- focative symptoms. I have seen a case in which the uvula became as thick as a finger and rested on the tongue with its tip forwards, and of this, there is a drawing at Guy’s. An incision into it, or several punctures, may give relief; but, as a rule, it is better to cut off the lower i half of the organ. Elongation from other causes is far more common, and is generally to be recognised by the peculiar hacking cough and husky voice to which it gives rise, the end of the uvula acting as a constant irritant to the epiglottis or glottis. There is reason, indeed, to believe that not a few of the cases of supposed laryngeal irritation are due to this cause. The removal of the lower half of the organ by means of a long pair of forceps or scissors, rapidly gets rid of all the symptoms. A polypus composed of simple mucous membrane may grow from the uvula. I Polypus of have removed one from the tip, and another from the base. They give “I'nla. ’ rise to symptoms identical with those of elongation. I had also a case under observation in which the polypus had so long a pednncle as to I fall at times into the orifice of the larynx, and excite a violent spasmodic B cough, but the man refused to have it removed.