TUMOURS OF THE EYEBALL. 384 Glioma. Progress of disease. Rupture of the coruea. Treatment. Sarcomata. Treatment. Strumous deposit. Glioma commences in the retina j it presents the following appear- ■ ance:—Should the patient be a child, it will generally be healthy ■ looking and present no signs of cachexia; attention has been drawn i to the eye from a peculiar glistening appearance of the pupil (cat’s» eye). On examination the surgeon will notice the peculiar reflection i through the pupil, which is generally somewhat dilated but movable * in the earlier stages. Examination, both by means of the ophthalmo- • scope and by lateral illumination, will show a whitish growth projecting: into the vitreous chamber, either as a single prominence or in nodules;; the growth will gradually increase, its surface become covered w'ith i blood-vessels, the retina be displaced, and sight soon entirely lost. As the disease progresses the tension of the globe increases, thes pupil becomes widely dilated and fixed, the iris pushed forwardsi and nearly in contact with the cornea, and the lens opaque,, preventing a view of the interior of the eye; the whole globe i now gradually enlarges, frequent inflammatory attacks occur, the» sclerotic becomes thinned, and at last, if the growth is allowed to> remain, a slough forms near the centre of the cornea, which rup-- tures, and a fungoid bleeding mass protrudes. The increase of the growth now becomes much more rapid, and it mayf grow to a considerable size in a short time. As soon as the growth becomes exposed to the air it commences to dis- • charge thin sanious pus and blood, and becomes more or less coated withi a dirty yellow scab. The eyelids become inflamed and swollen, sharp at- - tacks of haemorrhage may take place, the general health sufiers, and the* patient dies from exhaustion or from extension of the disease to the brain. - Glioma in its earlier stages is likely to be confounded with scrofulous* deposit within the eyeball, but it is not likely to be thus mistaken after r perforation has occurred. Treatment.—The only treatment of glioma is extirpation of the* globe, and this should be done as soon as the nature of the disease* has been made out; but however early the operation may be performed,!, the disease is almost certain to return, either in the optic nerve or brain.u Melanotic sarcoma, or black cancer, affects persons of advanced age;; it is a variety of soft cancer, characterised by the development of black k pigment-cells; it may grow either from the interior or exterior of the* eyeball, but generally commences in the choroid. It is said not to be* so liable to recur as glioma. Round- and spindle-celled sarcomata also* commence most commonly in the choroid. ' Treatment.—Early extirpation. In all cases of excision for malig- - nant growths, the optie nerve must be cut as far back as possible. Carcinoma, as above stated, is rarely met with. Strumous deposit.—The appearance of this deposit within the eyeball I closely resembles that met with in the early stages of glioma. The • patients are usually children. There is the peculiar glistening appear-** ance of the pupil noticed in glioma, and blood-vessels are seen upon* the surface of the growth; the retina is more or less displaced by fluid 4 between it and the choroid, and floats in the vitreous chamber. The * growth goes on increasing, the pupil becomes dilated, its mobility isn destroyed; the lens becomes opaque, the sclerotic thinned, the whole < eyeball somewhat enlarged, and suppuration may occur; supposing« the disease to have gone on up to this point, there is nothing by which i; it can be distinguished from glioma.