INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE VEINS. 494 Coagulation in veins. Adhesive phlebitis. Indications. Evidences of an inflamed vein difficult to determine. Supposed pus in clot. Tendency of clot to increase rapidly. Thrombosis. Thickened coats not real. Clots may not obstruct entirely. When death does not supervene from either of these two causes yet it may occur from secondary hsemorrhage or from pyaemia. A vertical incision into the internal jugular vein is not neces- sarily attended with a fatal haemorrhage. When bleeding occurs it will be recurrent. This was well illustrated in a case re- corded by Mr. Woodman, of Exeter (‘Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1873), in which the internal jugular vein was ligatured with a successful result. Coagulation in veins. Adhesive phlebitis.—When a vein was found by the older surgeons obstructed by a fibrinous clot, the suspicion of phlebitis was excited, and, when this clot contained in its centre a “ puriform ” fluid, the evidence of inflammatory action was considered to be strong. When the clot was more or less adherent to the inner membrane of the vein, and this membrane presented a pink appearance, the evidence was thought to be complete. At the present day, however, none of these phenomena are accepted as true indications of an inflamed vein; as it is known that blood coagulates spontaneously in a wounded, lace- rated, or bruised vein from prolonged pressure upon its walls, or in- flammatory changes in the parts around, and that even in ill-nourished and cachectic subjects, there is a remarkable tendency for the fibrin of the blood to become deposited upon the serous lining of the veins, either idiopathically from some altered condition of the blood, or on the sbghtest injury, without the existence of inflammatory action. The supposed pus found in the centre of the fibrinous mass is known to be made up of the white blood-corpuscles present in all coagula, while the pinkish tint upon the serous lining of the vein is due to the mere imbibition of coloui’ing matter from the blood, and not to inflammatory injection. A clot once formed in a vein rapidly increases, the stream of blood as it flows over it depositing fresh layers, until the whole calibre of the vein is obstructed; when the process is slow, regular layers of fibrin may be seen in section, but when rapid the clotting is irregular. At the extremities of the clot, also, like accretions are deposited; the coagula increase more or less rapidly in all directions and into all branches, till complete obstruction, or THROMBOSIS, takes place. This clotting of blood in the vein becomes arrested only by the blood stream of a junction trunk. These coagula can readily be removed by washing, and when removed, the lining membrane of the vein will generally be found natural and the valves visible. The coat of the veins at times may appear thickened from contraction, but Mr. Callender has shown, that this is not real but only an apparent condition, the coats of the veins readily yielding to pressure under water. In the process of cure some- times the clot will contract towards one side of the vein, _ thus allowing the blood to pass and the circulation to become re-established. In rarer cases the blood “ may drill for itself a passage through the centre of the clot.” Ordinarily, however, a different result takes place, the vein becomes permanently obliterated, the clot and vein ultimately contracting so as to form a firm and shrunken cord. In rare cases, the clot may subsequently organize. Authors have described these as instances of adhesive phlebitis. In feeble and cachectic subjects, however, these curative changes cannot take place. The