594 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Laryngo- tomy. Force never to he used in pusliing body down. Examples of impacted false teeth. Care in extraction. Wounds of pharynx. of Duke street, Manchester Square (Fig. 249), may be used. When a coin has been swallowed by a child, and become impacted in the pharynx, the child should be laid across a pillow upon his belly on a table, with the head hanging over the end, and supported. The surgeon should then introduce his finger into the mouth and depress the child's tongue, the coin by this manoeuvre sliding out of its place. When a solid mass has become impacted in the lower part of the pharynx behind the cricoid cartilage and the finger cannot dislodge it, no forcible attempt should be made to push it down into the stomach, although laryngotoiny may be called for to preserve life. If a second attempt to move the impacted body fail, it is well to desist, as by the lapse of time the spasm which existed when the first attempt failed may disappear, and a renewed effort may be crowned with success. Soft bodies likewise become softer, and consequently can be the better removed or pushed downwards. A good deal may, however, be done by digital mani- pulation, both inside and outside the mouth, either to dis- lodge the foreign body or to so alter its shape by squeez- ing as to enable it to pass downwards. The laryngoscopic mirror is often of great service in de- tecting the presence of a small impacted body, and in guiding the surgeon to its position. False teeth not infrequently be- come dislodged and impacted in the pharynx. Paget has related such a case, where a man in a fit had one of his sets in the pharynx, where they remained four months. They were afterwarcls dislodged from between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis (‘Me(l. Times,’1862). ^ In 1864, when performing ovariotomy on a lady, under chloro- form, alarming symptoms of suffocation set in, and on opening the mouth I found half a set of teeth had become dislodged and fallen into the pharynx. I have also heard of several similar cases. Before giving chloroform to old people the teeth always should be examined, and false sets removed. W’'hen such bodies become impacted, much care is needed in their extraction, and the utmost gentleness used. Wounds of the pharynx, as a result of accident, are occasionally met with, falling with a sharp body in the mouth being the most frequent, nnd when they do not involve any large vessel, they generally do welJ. Durham relates a case of a boy, ast. 7, in ‘ Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol ii, in which Mr. Johnson of St. George’s, had to ligature the carotid artery for repeated bleedings following a punctured wound of this part Fro. 249.