631 ENTEROTOMY. at least twenty-five years ago, upon a patient of Trousseau’s, for chronic intestinal obstruction, and is applicable to cases of abdominal obstruction in which the clinical evidence points to the con- clusion that the obstruction is high up in the large intestiue or low down in the small; to cases in which “laparotomy” is inapplicable and “ lumbar colotomy” is out of court—to cases of obstruction in which relief is required and a more exact method of giving it is not clear, either from some difficulty in diagnosis or other cause. It is described by Trousseau as follows (‘Clin. Med.,’ lecture 77):—“I begin the The operation, as Nelaton advises, by making in the right side an incision op^ratiou. an inch in length, a little above the crest of the ilium, parallel with Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 258) ; the length of this incision is subse- quently increased to three or four inches. In dividing, layer by layer, the skin, the cellular tissue, the muscles, and aponeuroses, tying as may be required the large vessels involved in the incision, we at last comedo Km. 258 Fig. 2o8a. Inguinal wuund made iu Ndlaton’a ‘ Operation of Euterotomy.’ the most deeply-seated aponeurosis. Proceeding always very slowly, and being very particular in sponging the wound carefully, this deep aponeurosis is cut through, when forthwith the peritoneum is reached. It is taken hold of by a small forceps and incised; afterwards using the greatest possible precautions, a silver thread, by means of a curved needle is carried, first tlirough the in- testine and then through the abdo- minal walls; four sutures are then made, two on each side of the inci- sion ; two others are made, one at the superior and the other at the inferior angle of the wound; but this time the abdominal parietes are first perforated, then the intestine, and afterwards the abdominal parietes on the opposite side of the wound {vide Pig. 258a). In this way the intestine is fixed everywhere, laterally and from above doivn- Mode of securing bowel before openiug it.