Explanation of Plate 8. 9 Fibrous Sclerosis of the Ascending Aorta and the Arch of the Vessel, with Extension to the Aortic Valves. Insufficiency and Slight Sclerosis of the Latter. (A small sacculated aneurism of the ascending aorta, situated immediately above the aortic valve.) The intima of the distinctly dilated aorta is covered with irregular, flat, garden-bed-like thickenings. These fibrous ele- vations are variously indented on the surface and are of a grayish- white and yellowish color; besides these we may note small cal- careous plates deposited, and here and there irregular jagged losses of substance with a grayish-red bottom. The deforming, chronic inflammatory process extending to the aortic valves has changed them very markedly ; they show great fibrous thicken- ing, irregular cicatricial shortening, and considerable shrinking of the valve pockets. This retraction and shortening of the valves (endocarditis fibrosa chronica retrahens), together with the dilatation of the ostium of the aorta, which is joined on one side by the dilatation of the ascending aorta and on the other side by the dilatation of the left ventricle, produced a pronounced, as it were potential insufficiency of the aortic valves (valvular and relative insufficiency). Immediately above the dorsal aortic valve is an opening the size of a dime which leads into a saccular pro- trusion of the wall of the aorta, the size of half a hazelnut (initial stage of a sacculated aneurism). The patient, a hotel keeper, aged forty-two years (No. 231, 1895), had, besides the aortic disease here illustrated, marked hypertrophy and dilatation of the entire heart, especially of the left ventricle (weight, 775 gm. = 27i oz.). Other conditions found were right hydrothorax with atelectasis by compression, congestive swelling of the liver, spleen, kidneys, and congestive catarrh of the stomach. There was no general dropsy. Death was due to heart failure. The cause of the fatal aortic sclerosis is to be found in acquired syphilis, and perhaps in alco- holism. This presenile gummous endaortitis has a progressive malignant character and is much more frequent in men, some- times associated with tabes. Clinically it manifests itself chiefly by aortic insufficiency, while anatomically and etiologically the aortic sclerosis represents the primary and most important disease. Syphilis and alcoholism are of special importance in the etiology.