Explanation of Plate 9. 10 Atheroma of the Thoracic Aorta. (Aortitis Chronica Deformans.) The intima of the aorta is irregularly thickened, at many points in garden-bed-like patches; it shows dull gray discolorations and yellowish spots. The flat and partly wrinkled elevations of the intima have here and there a gelatinous appearance and soft consistence. At some points the intima seems to be almost fissured and covered with irregular losses of substance, the bottom of which is formed by a dirty gray greasy mass (atherom- atous fatty pulp). This intense aortic disease, which was observed in a comparatively young person (a baker aged forty-four years), is characterized chiefly by the complete absence of calcareous deposits, which are hardly ever lacking in the endaortitis of older patients, in senile and presenile arterio-sclerosis. This essentially productive and hyperplastic inflammation of the arterial wall is found mainly in men between thirty-five and fifty years of age, and is usually due to syphilis and al- coholism. It extends frequently to the aortic valves, causing insufficiency; in the present case, only the points of attachment of the aortic valves were some- what rigid and moderately thickened. In the case here illustrated (No. 65, 1895) we found as a co-ordinated important disease a considerable hypertrophy and dilatation of the entire heart (weight, 610 gm. = 211 oz. to a body weight of 78 kgm. = 172 lb.), which must be considered in the main as idiopathic (alcoholic-plethoric), although the serious aortic disease acted upon the left heart in such a way as to favor the existing hypertrophy and dilatation. Other associated conditions noted at the autopsy were slight indurated moycarditis, congested organs, i.e., cyanotic induration of the liver, spleen, and kidneys, congestive catarrh of the stomach, pulmonary oedema without other dropsies. The patient, who was powerfully built and well nour- ished, arrived moribund at the hospital; death was due to heart failure.