Explanation of Plate 5. Recurrent Endocarditis of the Aortic Valves. Chronic and Recurrent, Deforming, Fibrous and Verrucose En- docarditis of Nineteen Years’ Duration. (About one-half natural size.) Fig. a.—The place of the aortic valves is occupied by an irregular formation of ligamentous tissue covered partly with firm, tumid, verrucose, partly with fibrinous excrescences. The several valves have coalesced. The septum between two valves, the lateral and dorsal, has completely disappeared ; upon the dorsal valve is a grayish-red, pointed, soft shred of tissue about 1 cm. in length. Owing to the truly deforming alterations, which suggest a terminated ulcerative endocarditis, the valve proves markedly insufficient and stenosed. As a secondary anomaly we find an enormous dilatation and moderate hyper- trophy of the left ventricle (excentric hypertrophy), the lumen almost the size of a fist, the wall 1.2 cm. thick, pale brownish- red in color. The right ventricle is unaltered ; the entire heart is evidently much widened by reason of the dilatation of the left ventricle. Associated conditions found were congested organs, no dropsy. The patient (a confectioner, aged thirty-one years, No. 384, 1894) had suffered from heart disease since his twelfth year, without demonstrable cause; articular rheumatism had never been present. Marasmic Thrombosis of the Left Ventricle. Fig. b.—At the apex of the left ventricle is a grayish-red soft thrombus of the wall, the size of a hazelnut, with uneven sur- face, and whose base seems to be intimately interwoven with the trabeculae. This terminal thrombosis of the wall was found in a patient, aged nineteen years (No. 336, 1895), dead of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. Aside from extreme emaciation (body weight 29 kgm. = 64 lb.) there was general anaemia. No emboli had been swept from the cardiac thrombus into the arteries of the body. Otherwise, marasmic thrombi, in the form of the white and mixed varieties, are found much more often in the right ven- tricle and auricle than on the left side. In estimating at the post- mortem table the vital energy and activity of the heart maras- mic thrombi are of special importance ; in general and with refer- ence to their pre-agonal development they are, as a rule, of less interest to the clinician. Their formation is favored, aside from weakness of the circulation, by changes in the composition of the blood, leucocytosis, and similar conditions. Their terminal occurrence, especially in numerous diseases of the heart, proves that the mechanical and physical factor of stasis, of defective cir- culation, plays the chief part in the formation of certain thrombi, and that lesions of the endocardium and of the intima of the vessels and alterations in the composition of the blood occupy a secondary place in such cases. 6