ATLAS OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 128 Figs. 5-15.—Strumous Stenoses of the Trachea.* Fig. 5.—Sword-sheath form caused by simple enlargement of both lobes of the thyroid gland, the trachea being in median position. Fig. 6.—Unilateral compression of the trachea by goitre of one side. Fig. 7.—Spirally curved sword-sheath form caused by compression of the trachea from both sides but at different levels. Goitre of moderate size. Fig. 8.—Spirally curved sword-sheath form; compression by a very large right-sided goitre with simultaneous marked backward development, thus compressing the trachea from the right and behind, while a smaller lobe farther down presses upon the trachea from the left anteriorly. Fig. 9.—Spirally curved sword-sheath form; a bilateral retro-cesophageal large goitre, irregular prominences of which, directed toward the trachea, have produced the spiral form of the latter. . Fig. 10.—True sword-sheath form, produced by uniform enlargement of both lobes of the thyroid gland, the trachea running a median course. Fig. 11.—Sword-sheath form; produced as in Fig. 6. Fig. 12.—Arc-like curved sword-sheath form; both lobes of the thyroid being nearly equally hypertrophied, but the right lobe had developed more deeply toward the trachea. Fig. 13.—Irregular compression of the trachea by an enormous carcino- ma of the thyroid gland (struma maligna). Fig. 14.—Double compression of the trachea; in the upper part, from the cricoid cartilage down, from in front, both lobes and the isthmus were much enlarged, the right lobe extending far forward and causing the upper compression; farther down the trachea appears bent in from the left by the left lobe of the gland. Fig. 15.—Sword-sheath form, unilateral compression; the right lobe of the thyroid gland the size of a fist, the left that of a walnut. mucous membrane, which is at times markedly in- jected and diffusely inflamed. While the larger bronchi normally and pathologi- cally resemble the trachea, the smaller and thin- walled bronchioles participate in most of the affec- tions of the pulmonary tissue. Inflammation of the bronchial mucosa (bronchitis) occurs as a primary and idiopathic affection or sec- # ondarily as a sequel and concomitant of pulmonary maladies, in acute infectious diseases; also in connec- * After E. Muller (Tubingen) ; “Mittbeilungen aus der chir. Klinik zu Tubingen, ” by Paul Bruns, 3 Heft, Tubingen, 1884.