Explanation of Plate 16. Lardaceous Spleen. (Amyloid Degeneration of the Spleen.) Fig. a.—The illustration represents one-half of the organ : the spleen is somewhat enlarged, the capsule tense, and the consis- tence very firm; the tissue is dry, bloodless, and has a marked fatty lustre on the cut surface. The Malpighian corpuscles are barely recognizable, the trabecular framework is apparently increased. This morbid condition was discovered in a man, aged fifty-two years (No. 88, 1895), dead of interstitial nephritis; the mucous membrane and the submucosa of the intestinal canal likewise pre- sented considerable amyloid degeneration, the smaller arteries, capillaries, and intestinal villi being chiefly affected. Incidental findings noted at the autopsy were subacute and chronic tuber- culosis of the apices of both lungs, emphysema of the lungs, moderate hypertrophy of the right ventricle of the heart, slight sclerosis of the aorta, atrophy of the liver, and general emaciation. Besides the diffuse amyloid disease of the spleen there is a localized focal affection, the degenerative process being confined to the Malpighian corpuscles, which appear like sago grains, lardaceously gray through the parenchyma—sago spleen. Disseminated Subacute Tuberculosis of the Spleen. Fig. b.—Scattered through the organ, which is markedly en- larged, is a considerable number of yellowish nodules of an irregular form, ranging in size from a pin’s head to almost that of a pea. The parenchyma of the hyperplastically enlarged spleen is of a dark brownish-red and bluish color, moderately firm, and rich in blood. This form of splenic tuberculosis is found most frequently in children and young persons as a partial phenomenon of a general tuberculosis, usually starting from the lungs or from cheesy lymph glands. Acute miliary tubercu- losis is more frequently discovered in the spleen ; in that case the organ is several times the normal size, and scattered through it are numerous barely visible submiliary and miliary nodules of a gray appearance through the parenchyma ; in the centre of each may be recognized a punctiform whitish or yellowish opacity, and in their initial stage they may be mistaken for the normal Malpighian corpuscles. As a rule the spleen, similar to the lymphatic glands, is very liable to metastatic tuberculosis, while primary tuberculosis is hardly ever observed. 16