THYKOID GLAND. 115 veloped, about like those of a boy six to seven years old. Death ensued rapidly after a relapsing attack of unconsciousness and dyspnoea. The autopsy showed complete absence of the thyroid gland, chronic leptomen- ingitis with moderate implication of the cerebral cortex, and negative results otherwise. The patient had suffered from his eighth year with a thickening of the neck due to a goitre the size of a fist, which caused great dyspnoea and dysphagia. In his twelfth year—sixteen years before the fatal termina- tion—the goitre was completely removed. As early as six months after the operation the relations of the patient observed a diminution of his mental activity; the boy, formerly bright and cheerful, became quiet, moody, and indifferent. Aside from the change in disposition it became soon evident that the trunk and extremities of the patient had ceased to grow, while the development of the head proceeded normally. On leav- ing school (at the age of fourteen) the patient was useless for a trade or for labor in the fields, and had to pass his time in knitting. Besides, a decreased acuity of hearing and vision was notable. result; when the gland is extirpated from young ani- mals (lambs and kids) the sequel® are dwarfed growth and cretinoid degeneration. * The symptoms of cachexia strumipriva (Fig. 4) be- gin very gradually several months after the patients from whom the gland has been removed by operation have been discharged and the wound has healed. The preservation of small remnants of the gland, or the presence of accessory glands occurring in more than half of the cases, suffices to prevent the cachexia. With reference to the normal relations of the thy- roid gland it may be remarked that it rapidly in- creases at the age between eleven and twenty years (the period of puberty), about trebling its size (from 12-36 gm. =185-555 gr.). In men the normal thy- * The recent remarkable results of thyroid feeding in patients whose thyroid gland is absent or destroyed by degenerative proc- esses show that the normal gland produces a specific substance (thyroidin) which is necessary to the preservation of health and of fundamental importance especially for the proper performance of the cerebral functions.