THE INSTITUTE OPHTHALMOLOGY LONDON EX LIBRISQUAIN'S ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY EDWARD ALBERT SCHAFER, F.R.S. PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HISTOLOGY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON, AND GEORGE DANCER THANE, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON. IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. IIT.—PART III. ORGANS OF THE SENSES. By PROFESSOR SCHAFER. ILLUSTRATED BY 178 ENGRAVINGS. LONDON: LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. AND NEW YORK: 15 EAST 16th STREET. 1894. EDITED BY Cent!; ©tttttott.LONDON: BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, \VHITEFRIARCONTENTS OF PAKT III. ORGANS OF THE SENSES. The Eye . . . . The Eyelids and Conjunctiva Eyelids Meibomian Glands . Conjunctiva ._ . Vessels ..... Nerves . . ... The Lachrymal Aitaiiatus Lachrymal Gland . Lachrymal Canals Lachrymal Sac Nasal Duct .... The Globe of the Eye Sclerotic Coat .... Cornea Membrane of Bowman Membrane of Descemet . Vessels and Nerves of Cornea . Vascular Coat Choroid Coat .... Ciliary Muscle Lis ...... Muscular Tissue of Iris . Vessels of Iris .... Nerves of Vascular Coat Retina ..... Retinal Layers Rods and Cones Miillerian Fibres . Structure of Macula Lutea and F Centralis .... Structure of Ora Serrata and I Ciliaris Vessels of Retina Interconnection of Retinal Elements Vitreous Body .... Suspensory Apparatus of Lens Lens Lens-Capsule Changes in Lems with Age Aqueous Humour and its Chamber The Ear . . - . . The External Ear Pinna .... Ligaments . Muscles Vessels Nerves .... External Auditory Canal Vessels and Nerves State in the Infant r-AGE I I I 3 4 5 7 7 7 8 9 9 io 13 17 19 19 22 23 23 30 31 32 33 34 35 38 47 50 ovea av 52 54 55 56 58 59 63 65 66 66 7i 7i 7i 74 75 76 76 76 79 79 The Middle Ear or Tympanum Membrana Tympani Eustachian Tube Auditory Ossicles . Ligaments .... Muscles .... Movements . Lining Membrane . Recesses ..... Vessels and Nerves The Internal Ear or Labyrinth Osseous Labyrinth Vestibule ..... Semicircular Canals Cochlea Membranous Labyrinth . Utricle ..... Saccule ..... Membranous Semicircular Canals Branches of the Eighth Nerve Vessels ..... Structure of Utricle, Saccule and Seiu • circular Canals Ampulla? ..... Membranous Cochlea Limbus . . . .* . Basilar Membrane Membrane of Reissner Spiral Ligament . Organ of Corti .... Rods of Corti Hair Cells and Cells of Deiters . Lamina Reticularis Tectorial Membrane . Nerves of Cochlea . Vessels of Cochlea Development of Organ of Corti Measurements of Cochlea . The Nose .... Cartilages Nasal Fossa? .... Mucous Membrane . Olfactory Mucous Membrane . Olfactory Cells .... Olfactory Nerve Organ of Jacobson Vessels of Nasal Fossne . The Organs of Taste Gustatory Cells Arrangement of Sensory Cells an Nerve Fibres in the differen Organs I'AGE 80 8l 86 89 92 93 95 95 95 97 98 99 99 100 101 104 104 105 105 108 109 109 110 112 115 116 118 119 119 120 121 122 123 124. 126 126 127 130 131 133 139 140 141 142 143 144 148 150 152ORGANS OF THE SENSES. In this Part will be described the organs of sight, hearing, and smell, and also the taste buds which are found on the tongue and other parts endowed with the sense of taste. The terminations of sensory nerves in the skin and elsewhere have already been described in Vol. I., Part 2, and will only be briefly alluded to in reviewing the whole subject of the ending of nerves of special sense. THE EYE. The organ of vision, strictly speaking, consists only of the ball or globe of the eye ; but connected with the eyeball externally are muscles, nerves, and blood- vessels, elsewhere described, as well as other parts specially destined for its protec- tion (tutamina oculi), of which an account will first be given. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. The eyelids (palpebral) are moveable folds of integument, strengthened towards their margins by a thin lamina of dense fibrous tissue (tarsus). They are about 3mm. thick near their free edge. A mucous membrane (conjunctiva) lines their inner surface, and is reflected thence on the front of the eyeball. The line of reflection is termed the fornix conjunctiva. Fig. 1.—Front view of the right eye, with the EYELIDS DRAWN APART BY BLUNT HOOKS. (Merkel.) Ps, plica semilunaris ; Pis, Pli, punctum lacrimale sup. et inf. ; Car, caruncula lacrimalis ; Lpm, interna tarsal ligament. The upper lid is larger and more moveable than the lower, all the transparent part of the globe being covered by it when the eye is closed ; it is chiefly by the elevation of this lid that the eye is opened, the movement being effected by a muscle (levator palpebral) devoted exclusively to this purpose. At the outer and inner angles (canthi) of the eye the eyelids are United. The interval between the angles varies in different individuals, averaging about 28mm. (Fuchs), and, according to its extent, gives the appearance of a larger or a smaller eye, the size of the globe being nearly the same in all. The greater part of the edge of each eyelid is flattened and angular, but towards the inner canthus it is rounded off for a short space, at the same time that it changes its direction, so that a rounded bay is here left between the two eyelids ; this bay has been termed the lachrymal reservoir (locus lacrimalis) ; at this point there is seen on each lid a slight elevation (papilla lacrimalis),—the apex of which is pierced by the aperture (punctum) of a small canal (canaliculus lacrimalis) which serves to convey away the fluid which moistens the conjunctiva (fig. 1, Pli, Pis). (See also figs. 9, 10, and 11.) In the greater part of their extent the lids are applied to the surface of the eye- ball ; but at the inner canthus, at the lachrymal lake, there intervenes a vertical fold vol. in.—pt. 3. nTHE EYE. 0 of conjunctiva, the plica semilunaris (fig. 1, Ps), which rests on the eyeball ; whilst occupying the recess of the angle at the border of this fold, is a spongy-looking reddish elevation (caruncula lacrimalis, Car) formed by a small isolated portion of skin containing a few large modified sweat glands, as well as a group of sebaceous glands which open into the follicles of very fine liairs. Then: is further found in it a small amount of plain muscular tissue (H. Miiller), as well as some cross-striated muscular fibres. A few plain muscular fibres are also to be found in the plica semilunaris. The plica semilunaris is the rudiment of the third eyelid (membrana nictitans) found in many animals ; and in some animals, and occasionally in man, the carun- cula lacrimalis retains its connection with the skin at the inner canthus. The muscular tissue of the nictitating membrane of animals, and presumably, therefore, of the semilunar fold of man, receives its nerve supply through the cervical sympa- thetic. In many animals, and occasionally in man (in the negro constantly, accord- ing to Griacomini), the plica semilunaris contains a plate of hyaline cartilage. Structure of the lids.—The skin covering the eyelids is thin and delicate, and covered with fine downy hairs (fig. 2, i, i). These are provided with sebaceous follicles ; small sweat-glands are also present. At the line of the eyelashes the skin joins the conjunctival mucous membrane which lines the inner surface of the lids. The cutis vera contains a number of ramified pigment cells, and pigment is also frequently found in the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, especially near the inner angle of the lids. Beneath the skin is a quantity of very loose connective tissue, entirely free from fat and containing the fasciculi of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle (b), and beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior surface is the lamina of dense connective tissue before mentioned, and known as the tarsus (e), or from its consistence, the tarsal cartilage, which thins off near the attached margin of the eyelid into the palpebral fascia connecting it with the margin of the orbit. In the tarsi are imbedded the Meibomian glands (/). In the upper eyelid there is, in addition, the insertion of the levator palpebrse superioris, attached to the upper or anterior surface of the tarsus by fibrous tissue and smooth muscular tissue (see below) and further sending a well-marked flat tendinous expansion, the bundles of which pass between the bundles of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and are attached to the skin of the middle of the eyelid (fig. 6). There is nothing corre- sponding to this in the lower lid, but the inferior rectus and oblique muscles send strands of fibrous tissue forwards to be attached to the tarsus and palpebral ligament. The orbicularis muscle is attached to the skin by loose subcutaneous connec- tive tissue, but glides loosely on the tarsal cartilages. A marginal fasciculus lies within the line of the eyelashes, separated by the bulbs of the lashes from the other fibres, and constituting the ciliary bundle or muscle of Eiolan (&')• The fibres of the orbicularis are very small and pale in colour. Its attachments have already been described in Vol. II., Part 2. The tarsi (tarsal cartilages) are two thin elongated plates formed of dense connective tissue, without any intermixture of cartilage-cells. They are placed one in each lid, to which they give shape and firmness. The upper one, the larger; is half oval in form, being broader near the centre and narrowing towards the angles of the lids. The lower is thinner, much narrower, and more nearly of a uniform breadth throughout. Their free edges, which are straight, are thicker than any other part. At the inner canthus they are fixed to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone by the internal tarsal slip ; and at the outer angle are attached to the malar bone by a fibrous band termed the outer tarsal ligament (Vol. II., p. 281). Groups of fat-cells are found in the tarsus both near its attached border and scattered over its anterior surface (Merkel).3 THE KYELIDS. The palpebral fascia {septum orhilale) is a fibrous membrane placed beneath the orbicularis muscle, attached on the one hand to the margin of the orbit, and on the other prolonged towards the attached border of each tarsus. In the lower lid its tissue is continuous with that of the tarsus, but in the upper lid it blends with the tendon of the levator palpebrae. The membrane is thicker at the outer part of the orbit, where it forms the lateral (outer) palpebral or tarsal ligament (figs. 4, 12). The mesial (internal) palpebral ligament, to which the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum are attached (see Vol. II. p. 281), is not formed from the general palpebral fascia, but lies altogether in front of it (fig. 4). The palpebral fascia Fig. 2.—Vertical section through the upper eyelid, human (after Waldeyer). Mag- nified. a, skin ; b, orbicularis ; V, ciliary bundle ; c, involuntary muscle of eyelid ; d, conjunctiva ; e, tarsus ; /, Meibomian gland ; tj, sebaceous gland near eyelashes, with modified sweat-gland opening with it ; h, eyelashes ; i, small hairs in outer skin ; j, sweat-glands ; k, posterior tarsal glands. extends downwards from the crista lacrimalis posterior, between the osseous boundary of the nasal duct and the origin of the inferior oblique muscle, to reach the lower border of the orbit (Merkel). The palpebral fascia thus acts as a kind of fibrous septum between the cutaneous and the conjunctival parts of the eyelid at its attached border : it was therefore termed the septum or- bifale by Henle. It is perforated above the internal tarsal ligament by the termination of the ophthalmic artery, with a considerable anastomotic vein between the superior ophthalmic and the angular, and its attachment to the supra-orbital margin is interrupted in- ternal to the centre by the passage of the supraorbital nerve (in one or two pieces) with the accompanying artery. On the ocular surface of each lid are seen parallel vertical rows of what, seen through the conjunctival mucous membrane, look like yellow granules. There are twenty to thirty of these rows in the lower lid, somewhat more in the upper lid ; they are the Meibomian or tarsal glands (fig. 3). These are long sebaceous glands, imbedded in the tarsi; and they open on the free margin of the lids by minute orifices, generally one for each. The glands consist of nearly straight tubes, closed at the end, with numerous small caecal appendages projecting from the sides. Sometimes, however, they are not straight, but are bent round at the blind end, as is shown in some of those represented in fig. 3. The mouths of the tubes are lined by stratified epithelium continuous with that of the skin ; but the ducts and the glandular recesses have a lining of cubical epithelium filled with the fatty B 2THE EYE. secretion. According- to Colosanti the glands have a basement membrane, and a muscular layer outside this : he further describes a network of fine nervous fibrils amongst the epithelium-cells. A layer of* unstriped muscular tissue is contained in each eyelid (H. Miiller) : that of the upper (fig. 2, c ; fig. L8) arising from the under surface of the levator palpebrse, that of the lower from the neighbourhood of the inferior oblique muscle, and each being inserted near the attached margin of the tarsus. According to Eenle, some of the fibres have a transverse course.1 The eyelashes {cilia) are strong short curved hairs, arranged in two or more rows along the margin of* the lids, at the line of union between the skin and the conjunctiva. The upper lashes are more numerous and longer than the lower ; they Fig. 3.-,—Meibomian glands op the left eyelids AS SEEN FIIOM BEHIND. a, a, palpebral conjunctiva ; 1, lachrymal gland ; 2, openings of seven or eight of its ducts ; 3, upper and lower puncta lacrimalia ; 6, 6, ends of the upper and lower Meibomian glands, of which the openings are indicated along the margins of the eyelids. are curved in an opposite direction in the two lids : so that their convexities are directed towards one another. The extremity of the lid, in which the follicles of the eyelashes are set, is composed of a dense fibrous tissue, somewhat similar in nature to that of the tarsus, with which it is, in fact, in'.the upper lid continuous (Merkel). The hair follicles are of some length (1-5 to 2-5 mm.), penetrating obliquely from the outer edge of the lid nearly to the tarsi. Near the inner canthus the hairs are weaker and more scattered. Immediately within the eyelashes, between them and the ciliary bundle of the orbicularis, is a row of large modified sweat glands (glands of Moll), which sometimes open into the mouths of large sebaceous glands (fig. 2, g) (not the Meibomian). The conjunctiva consists of the palpebral part (conjunctiva palpebrarum), with which may be included the plica semilunaris and caruncula, and of the ocular part (conjunctiva bulbi), in which may be distinguished the sclerotic and corneal portions : each of these parts has distinctive characters. The epithelium of the conjunctiva varies somewhat at different parts ; that of the eyelids is columnar, with smaller cells between the fixed ends of the columnar cells. Near the skin and cornea it shades off into the stratified epithelium which covers these parts. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva is thicker and more vascular than the rest of the membrane, and is fieely supplied with nerves. Through the puncta lacrimalia and canaliculi, it is continuous with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac. Although closely united to the tarsi, it exhibits, nevertheless, numerous small creases or folds, which are visible with a lens. A layer of small racemose or tubulo-racemose glands (posterior tarsal) is found on the ocular surface of the lids, immediately under the conjunctiva, and beyond the blind ends of the _ 1 It may be mentioned in this place that H. Miiller also described a layer of unstriped muscle bridging over the sphenomaxillary fissure, corresponding to a more largely developed layer found in the extensive aponeurotic part of the orbital wall of various mammalia (H. Miiller, Wurzburg Sitzun^l. , 1858 ; Turner, Nat. Plist. Rev., 1862). These involuntary muscles receive their nerves through the cervical sympathetic ; the spheno-maxillary muscle, when contracted, causes the globe of the eye to project more from the orbit.BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE EYELIDS. 5 Meibomian glands (fig. 2, Jc). Their minute ducts open near the line of reflection of the conjunctiva upon the globe of the eye. Harderian g-land.—All animals which possess a well-cleveloped membrana nictitans have also, situated at the mesial angle of the eye, a special gland, the ducb of which opens beneath the third eyelid. The gland has a racemose structure, and secretes a mucus-like fluid, thus differing from the serous-secreting lachrymal. It is not found in primates, unless in an extremely vestigial form. The ocular portion.—The conjunctiva changes its character at the line of reflec- tion from the eyelids, becoming thinner and being loosely connected to the sclerotic coat of the eyeball by submucous tissue. But over the cornea it consists only of a prolongation of the epithelium, which is closely adherent to the anterior layers of the cornea, in connection with which it will be described. Blood-vessels.—The blood is supplied to the eyelids mainly by the internal and external palpebral arteries ; the former being derived from the ophthalmic artery Fig. 4.—Dissection showing the arteries and veins oe the eyelids. (After Testut.) and the latter from its branch, the lachrymal. The internal palpebral are usually the larger, and consist of two vessels, a superior and an inferior, one for each lid, which they reach by piercing the palpebral fascia, one a little above and the other just below the mesial palpebral ligament (fig. 4). In the eyelid each vessel runs with a tortuous course near the free border between the tarsus and the bundles of the orbicularis, forming the so-called tarsal arches. At the outer side they anastomose with the external palpebrals, which are derived from the lachrymal. The superficial temporal and transverse facial also send branches to join this anastomotic chain at the outer part of the orbit. In the upper eyelid there is a secondary arterial arch formed by a branch of the superior palpebral, and running just in front of the upper or attached end of the tarsus, between the tendon of the levator palpebrae and the plain muscular sheet which passes from it to join the tarsus. Sometimes there is a similar secondary arch0 THE EYE. branches from the Meibo- mian glands and from the orbicularis and integument, below which it forms a tortuous venous plexus, with large and irregular meshes. Fig. 6. — Section op the upper EYELID, WITH THE ARTERIES injhcted. (Modified from Merkel.) The course of the nervous twigs is also shown. The blood from this plexus passes externally into the superficial tamporal and in- ternally into the facial vein. Lymphatics.—There are two networks of lymphatic vessels in each eyelid, one in front of, the other behind the tarsus. The former re- ceives lymph from the in- tegumental and muscular structures of the lid, the latter from the Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. The networks are connected by vessels which pierce the tarsi, but less freely in the lower than in the upper eyelid. The efferent lymphatics find their way mesially along the in the lower lid. The two arches in the upper lid are joined here and there by small anastomotic arteries. Branches pass in each lid from the tarsal arches, 1, for- Fig. 5.— Plan op the ophthalmic artery, show- ing THE TYPICAL MODE OP ORIGIN OK ITS branches. (G. D. T. after Meyer.) wards to supply the orbicularis muscle, and the in tegumental structures ; 2, backwards into the tarsus to supply the Meibomian glands; and 3, backwards around the upper and lower edges of the tarsus to supply the conjunctiva palpebrarum. The veins of the eyelids are disposed in two series or networks. The one, post-tarsal, receives branches from the conjunctiva and a few from the Meibomian glands ; its blood passes for the most part into the ophthal- mic vein. The other, or pre-tarsal, receives7 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. facial vein and its tributaries towards the submaxillary lymphatic glands, laterally into the pre-auricular and parotid lymphatic glands. Nerves.—The levator palpebrre is supplied by the upper branch of the third nerve, the orbicularis palpebrarum by the upper branches of the facial nerve ; the plain muscular tissue of the lids, like that of the orbit generally, by branches of the sympathetic. The sensory nerves come from branches of the fifth. The upper lid is mainly supplied by the frontal and supra-orbital, the lower lid mainly by the infra-orbital branches, but at the inner or nasal part the supra- and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic division come to the surface, and assist in supplying the lids and the adjacent lachrymal apparatus, whilst laterally the lachrymal branch of the IivfrouorbitoZ Fig. 7.—Nerves of the eyelids. Left eye. (From Merkel.) ophthalmic sends ramifications to the skin over the external angular process, some of which may pass into the upper eyelid (fig. 7). The principal nerves run in front of the tarsi between these and the fibres of the orbicularis (fig. 6). From here their branches pass forwards to the skin and back- wards, piercing the tarsi, to the Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. Near the edge of each eye!id° between the tarsus, the orbicularis, and the muscle of Riolan, is an anastomotic chain of nerve-fibres, the marginal plexus of Mises, from which nerves are supplied to the surrounding parts and to the hair-follicles of the eyelashes. THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The parts which constitute the lachrymal apparatus are the following, viz. .— The gland by which the tears are secreted; the two canals which collect the fluid near the inner oanthus, and the sac with the nasal duct continued from it, through vvhich the tears pass into the inferior meatus of the nose. The lachrymal gland (fig. 3, 1), an oblong flattened body, about the size of a small almond, is placed in the upper and outer part of the orbit, a little behind the anterior margin. The upper convex surface of the gland is lodged in a slight depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone, to the periosteum of which it is united by fibrous bands; the lower surface is adapted to the convexity of the eyeball, and is in contact with the upper and the outer recti muscles. The fore part of the gland, separated from the rest by a thin layer of fascia, and sometimes described as a distinct gland (glandula lacrimalis inferior of Rosenmiiller), isfirst ascends for 2 mm. from the punctum ; then makes a sudden bend and s THE EYE. closely adherent to the back of the upper eyelid, and is covered on the ocular surface merely by the conjunctiva ; its lobules are small and separate, with minute ducts, some opening separately, others joining the ducts from the principal gland which are also very small. The number from both divisions of the gland seldom exceeds twelve. After running obliquely under the mucous membrane, and separating at the same time from each other, they open in a row at the fornix con- junotivra, by separate orifices, at its upper outer part. Structure—The lachrymal gland is a compound, tubulo-racemose gland lesembhng the serous salivary glands in general structure. Its alveoli are bounded Fig. 8.—Alveoli of the lachhymal gland of the sog^~A vpn« a n,.„T <n.!s5 tost- ™- - - — by a basement membrane formed of ramified flattened eells , and the secretin* cells esidnt changes ,n the different states of rest and activity of the gland simflaTUo Fig. 9.—Front of the left eyelids with the lachry- mal CANALS AND NASAL DDCT EXPOSED. 1, 1, upper and lower lachrymal canals, showing towards the eyelids the narrow 1 ent portions and the puncta lacri- niaha; 2, lachrymal sac; 3, the lower part of the nasal duct; 4, plica semilunaris ; 5, caruncula lacrimalis. those seen in most other glands (see fig. 8 and 7ol. I., Part 2, p. 396). No rod-like structure has been noticed in the epithelium of the ducts. The arteries of the gland are derivedlfrom the lachry- mal, and the veins pass into the ophthalmic vein. The nerves come from the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and from the sympathetic. Lachrymal canals.—These commence as , . already mentioned by a minute aperture (punc- tum) on the margin of each lid, near the inner angle (figs. 9, 10 and 11) The upper punctum is slightly smaller and is situated rather more mesially than the lower one Ihe upper canal is rather the smaller and longer of the two • itTHE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 9 is directed inwards and slightly downwards for 6 to 7 mm. to join the lachrymal sac (fig. 11). The lower canal descends from the corresponding punctum and then takes a nearly horizontal course inwards. Both canals are smallest at the punctum, Fig. 10.—Section op the eyelids, passing along the lachrymal canals. (G-erlach.) Magnified. c, inner canthus of eye ; s.c, i.e., superior and inferior canals respectively; l.s., lachrymal sac ; orb., fibres of orbicularis muscle. and here they are a little wider at the mouth than at the hase of the papilla lacrimalis, where they only measure 0*1 mm. in diameter ; they then become enlarged and present a further enlarge- ment at the bend, where each has a marked dilatation, enlarging to 1 mm. diameter or more (fig. 10). The bend is sharper in the embryo than in later life. From this the horizontal limb passes off as a nearly cylindrical tube of about 0'6 mm. diameter, gradually narrowing to half that size. A part of the orbicularis palpebrarum (pars lacrimalis, tensor tarsi) runs parallel to the horizontal limbs, which are embraced by some of the muscular fibres, and when the orbicularis contracts the canals may be compressed by these fibres (Merkel). The canals either unite near their end, or they open separately, but close together, into a diverticulum of the nasal sac which is known as the sinus of Ifaier. licxsod, scio Fig. 11.—Section showing Zcxchri/mal canals J THE COURSE AND RELA- . j jf<i<*-C^ TIONS OF THE NASAL SAC —'-. ' '•^S^SSi^St--. - ! ((V fT*^ - AND DUCT. (E. A. S., slightly modified from Merkel.) The mucous mem- brane in the canaliculi is lined by a stratified scaly epithelium set on a corium rich in elastic fibres. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct con- stitute together the passage by which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal canals to the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal sac (fig. 9, 2 ; fig. 11), the slightly dilated upper or orbital portion of the passage, is situated at the side of the nose, near the inner canthus of the eye, and lies embedded in a deep groove in the lachrymal and superior maxillary bones, from which it is separated by a thin layer of the orbital periosteum. When distended with tears it forms a distinct swelling here at the side of the nose. It is about 15 mm. long, and about 5 or 6 mm. wide, and is sometimes narrower below where it passes into the nasal clnct. Its Insierpalpebral ligcunen£ dux. media, Concha,THE EYE. 10 upper end is closed and rounded, forming a cul-de-sac 5 the lower end gradually narrows into the nasal duct. On the outer side, and a little in front, it receives the lachrymal canals ; and here it is placed behind the internal tarsal ligament, and some of the inner fibres of the orbicular muscle of the lids ; while on its orbital surface is the tensor tarsi muscle. The nasal duel, very variable in length (12 to 24 mm.), and 3 or 4 mm. wide, grooving the upper maxilla, descends to the fore part of the lower meatus of the nose, the osseous canal being completed by the lachrymal and lower turbinate bones. Both sac and duct are composed of fibrous and elastic tissues, adhering closely to the bones above mentioned, and strengthened in the case of the lachrymal sac by a fibrous process sent from the internal tarsal ligament, which crosses it a little above its middle. The inner surface is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous through the canalicuh with the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the mucous membrane of the nose. At the opening into the nose the lining membrane is often arranged so as to form an imperfect valve (Hasner). Other valvular folds have been often noticed and described, but they appear to be less constant. The nasal duct is rather narrower in the middle than at either end ; its direction is not quite vertical, but inclined slightly backwards. Its direction is indicated by a line joining the mesial canthus of the eyelids with the anterior edge of the first molar of the upper jaw (Testut). The lower orifice of the nasal duct is very variable in position, but is usually from 80 to 35 mm. behind the posterior margin of the anterior nasal openiug (Arlt). It may open by a simple round orifice close under the inferior turbinate, or by an oblique or slit-like orifice or groove in the mucous membrane somewhat lower. In rare cases two lower openings have been described. This condition is always present in some animals {e.g., dog). The nasal sac and duct are lined by a columnar epithelium, which may be ciliated here and there, but does not appear to be covered everywhere with cilia as is the case on the adjacent mucous membrane of the nose. The lower part of the nasal duct has numerous glands similar to those in the nasal meatus into which it opens. The arteries come from the nasal and inferior palpebral. The veins are very large and numerous on the nasal duct (as in the adjacent nasal mucous mem- brane). The nerves are derived from the infratrochlear branch of the nasal division of the ophthalmic. THE GLOBE OF THE EYE. The globe or ball of the eye is supported by a quantity of fat and loose connective tissue in the fore part of the orbital cavity, somewhat nearer its lateral and inferior walls than its mesial and superior. The recti and obliqui muscles closely surround the greater part of the eyeball, and are capable of changing its position within certain limits : the lids, with the plica semilunaris and caruncle, are in contact with its covering of conjunctiva in front; and behind it receives th#thick stem of the optic nerve. The eyeball is composed of segments of two spheres, of which the anterior is the smaller and more prominent ; the segment of the larger posterior opaque sphere corresponds with the limit of the sclerotic coat, and that of the smaller sphere with the cornea. The junction of the two is marked by a broad shallow groove which has been named sulcus sclerce. The eyeball measures nearly an inch (24-5 mm.) across from side to side, but slightly less from before back (24 mm.), and still less from above down (23-5). It weighs about 7 grammes, and has a volume of about 6-5 cubic centimetres.CAPSXJLE OF TENON. ]1 Except when directed towards near objects, the axes of the eyes are nearly parallel ; the optic nerves, on the contrary, diverge considerably. Each nerve enters the corresponding eye about 2 to 3 mm. to the inner or nasal side of the axis of the eyeball. The eyeball consists of three concentric coats, and, of certain fluid and solid parts enclosed by them. The coats are (1) an external fibrous covering, forming the sclerotic (tunica sclera) and cornea, (2) a middle vascular, pigmented, and in part also muscular membrane, the choroid and iris (tunica uvea), and (8) an internal nervous and epithelial stratum, the retina. The enclosed refracting media, three in number, are the aqueous humour, the vitreous hody, and the lens. Around the posterior two-thirds of the eyeball there is a tunic of fascia, tunica vaginalis oculi, or capsule of Tenon, which is perforated by the tendons of the recti Fig. 12.—Horizontal section of orbit. (After Gerlach.) Magnified. and obliqui muscles, along which it sends sheaths which blend with the perimysium of the muscles (figs. 12 and 13). It is connected with the sclerotic by delicate con- nective tissue (adventiiia oculi, Lockwood), except posteriorly, at the entrance of the ciliary vessels and nerves, where it blends with the sclerotic. Anteriorly the capsule of Tenon is continued into the conjunctiva. This capsule is lined by flattened endothelial cells, and encloses a lymph-space, which separates the eyeball from the orbital fat. It is strengthened just behind the places where the recti muscles perforate it, by bands of fibrous'tissue (figs. 12 and 13,), and it is attached mi either side to the malar and lachrymal bones by elastic ligamentous structures, which also receive fibrous slips from the internal and external recti. These structures serve as check-ligaments (fig. 12) to these muscles. They are stated by Sappey to contain plain muscular fibres. Fibrous slips also pass from the sheaths of the superior and inferior rectus, and are attached to the conjunctiva palpebrarum and12 THE EYE. to the connective tissue of fche eyelid (fig. 13). Below and in front of the anterior end of the inferior reotus the capsule is strengthened by a baud of fibrous tissue, which is stretched like a sling from one side of the orbit to the other and is inserted at its ends to the lachrymal and malar bones. This band—the Ugamentum Bc&ruiL from, superior rectus to Levator palf>£- brcoe! Rectus superior' L&oodor palpebral superiorly FrontaUe jSupm-crlidaZ Optic neruc Orbicularis ."•Septum. £ orblbcde. V ^Insertion of ffl LeocUpr paZ- fv paSrae. faruun&tiAjcU. Tarsus Inferior obLUfue. ■Septum. orbUcUe. Bctnot-from,' inferior I obLCque. fipacc of Tenon/ Fig. 13.—Sagittal section tiibough the middle of the globe of the eye within the ohbit. (E. A. S.. from a figure by Merkel, enlarged and modified.) suspensorium oculi of Lockwood—serves to aid in maintaining the eye in position ; it is joined anteriorly with the tarsus of the lower lid (see fig. 13). Lastly, another band passes from the anterior border of the sheath of the inferior oblique muscle forwards, downwards, and outwards, to be attached to the lateral part of the lower border of the orbit (fig. 13). For further details regarding these structures consultL3 THE SCLEROTIC COAT. Lock wood, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, 1885 ; Merkel, Handbuch der topograph. Anatomie ; and Testut, Traite d'Anatomie. See also Vol. II., p. 292 Lccch.fi/inaA gLcuuL TempordL La.ckrt.nnaL neruc- I muscle MM l'1 Stmt , JfUertux}. rectus ' Inferior rectus Inferior oUtyte External, rectus Fig. 14.—Coronal section through the right eye and orbit. (E. A. S., fcom a figure by Merkel, enlarged and modified.) THE SCLEROTIC COAT. The sclerotic coat, the tunic of the eye on which the maintenance of the form of the organ chiefly depends, is a strong, opaque, fibrous structure. It extends over the greater part of the eye-ball (fig. 15) joining in front with the cornea. The outer surface is white and smooth, except where the tendons of the recti and obliqui muscles are inserted into it. In the child the eyeball has a bluish white colour, from the fact that the dark pigment of the choroid shows through the sclerotic coat (which is thinner in the child). The inner surface is brown, and rough from the presence of a delicate pigmented connective tissue {lamina fusca), which is united by fine threads with the choroid coat. These filaments traverse a lymphatic space through which branches of the ciliary vessels and nerves also pass obliquely. The sclerotic is thickest at the back part of the eye, at the entrance of the optic nerve, where it is nearly 1 mm. thick, and thinnest (0'4 mm.) at about 6 mm. from the cornea : near the junction with the latter, it is again14 THE EY K. Sr. Fig. 15.—Diagram op the bight adult human eye, divided nearly horizontally through the middle. (E. A. S.) Magnified fire times. The line a b passes through the equator, x y through the visual axis of the eye. The figure has been drawn, as far as possible, to scale, the following- being taken as the average measurements of the parts of the adult eye in millimeters :— Transverse diameter of the eyeball ......... 24-.r» Vertical diameter ............. 23*5 Antero-posterior diameter ........... 24*0 Greatest thickness of the sclerotic, choroid, and retina together . . . . T4 Greatest thickness of the sclerotic posteriorly ........ 0'8 Thickness of the sclerotic at the equator ... .... . . 0'4 Thickness of the cornea in the centre ......... 0-8 Distance from the middle of the anterior surface of the cornea to the front of the lens . 3-4 Antero-posterior diameter of tho lens -TO'15 THE SCLEROTIC COAT. Transverse ditto ® Greatest thickness of the ciliary body I'l Thickness of the iris ■ . . ' J*** Length of the radius of curvature of the anterior surface of the cornea . . 7-» Radius of the posterior surface of the sclerotic ' 12'c Eadius of curvature of the anterior surface of the lens 1.0*0 Radius of the posterior surface 6*0 Distance of the middle of the posterior surface of the lens from the middle of the retina • 15'° Distance between the centre of the spot of entrance of the optic nerve and the middle of the fovea centralis retinas 3-5 somewhat thickened owing to the attachment and spreading over it of the tendons of the ocular muscles. The optic nerve pierces this coat about 2-5 to 3 mm. in- —Anterior cficuriber QrecU; vtprti- kS{ cose ueitv -w^. passing wjj^ Anterior ciliary arteries Ciliary neru&s i Great if—uortLcose, .lone/ pastericr cildjcvry arteries Otitic Mvl \ / " "Wm Short posterior " v ciliary arberiek ■pig. 16.—Diagram showing the principal nerves and blood-vessels of the eyeball. (Testut. ternal to the posterior pole of the eyeball, and about 1 mm. below a horizontal plane passing through the poles ; the opening is somewhat smaller at the inner than at the outer surface of the coat. The outer fibj m* ;heath of the nerve blends with the sclerotic at the margin of the aperture : in consequence of this arrangement, when the nerve is cut off close to the eyeball, the funiculi seem to enter by a group of pores; and to the part of the sclerotic thus perforated the name of lamina cribrosa is given. Around this cribrous opening are smaller apertures for the posterior ciliary arteries and the ciliary nerves. These are disposed in the manner.shown in the accompanying diagram (fig. 16). Nearer the equator of the globe the sclerotic is pierced by four apertures which transmit veins (vense vorticose).Lfi THE EYE. Structure of the sclerotic.-The sclerotic coat is formed of bundles of famed with fine elastic elements, and amongst them lie numerous connective- tissue corpuscles lodged in cell-spaces, but not by any means so regularly alnged as in the cornea. Some of the cells are pigmented. The bundles are disposed n layers bo h longitudinally and transversely, the longitudinal arrangemei fc bein" ;'mt b,Ch,nd aud afc the surfaces' fche transverse or circular nL the corneal See communicate at intervals so as not to be separable for any wli?l?rnalIJ eternally the sclerotic is covered with flattened endothelial cells, winch are reflected over the muscles, vessels, nerves, and connecting bands of tissue which pass from it to the capsule of Tenon and the choroid coat respectively, coat (pH$ reSGI m 8tl*UCtUre thG lamina suPracIloroidea of the choroid hmiSl a.nfiri0r T6 0i,thl SCler0tiC fl"0m ab0Ut fche line of attachment of the tendons oi the recti muscles forwards to the cornea, is covered by the conjunctiva Fig. 17. — Termination in end-bulbs of the neiives op the conjunctiva. (Longworth.) which is reflected on to the globe from the eyelids, and which is connected with the sclerotic by loose areolar (subconjunctival) tissue. This part of the conjunctiva is formed of somewhat dense connective tissue covered by a stratified epithelium of some thickness. It is a fairly vascular membrane, and contains a network of lymphatics, which begin at the edge of the cornea by tapering capillaries. Its nerves are mostly medullated : some pass towards the cornea, others end in the membrane itself, many in end-bulbs (W. Krause). A few blood-vessels derived from the short ciliary and the anterior ciliary arteries, permeate the fibrous texture in the form of a network of capillaries with very wide meshes. Those from the anterior ciliary emerge from under the tendons ot the recti muscles, dividing into branches as they pass towards the margin of the cornea. Before reaching this, however, they dip into the substance of the sclerotic and they here take on a radial disposition in the thickness of that coat. Other vessels derived from the posterior ciliary arteries form a wide-meshed network at the surface of the sclerotic in its posterior three-fourths, and like those from the anterior ciliary communicate freely with deeper vessels in the substance of the membrane. At the posterior part of the sclerotic its vessels are continuous with those of the dural sheath of the optic nerve. Around this nerve the scleral branches of the posterior ciliary arteries form an arterial circle (circulus Zinnii) which gives branches to the optic nerve and choroid as well as to the sclerotic. The vessels of the conjunctival membrane, which are derived from the palpebral and achrymal arteries, are readily distinguishable from those of the subjacent sclerotic by their more tortuous course, and by the fact that they shift upon the globe when the conjunctiva is pulled upon. Near the edge of the cornea they communicate withTHE CORNEA. 17 the episcleral vessels derived from the anterior ciliary. Veins corresponding with the arteries run in and beneath the conjunctiva, and there is a well-marked episcleral plexus of veins behind the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, l ie veins convey their blood to the anterior ciliary and the vorticose veins of the choroid. The sclerotic receives fibres from the ciliary nerves, but it is not certainly known how they terminate. Hannover described the sclerotic as being: traversed in its thickness, opposite the fovea cen- tralis of the retina, by a strand of fibrous tissue, which unites the lamina; as it passes through them Cfuniotdm sclera-). According to Schwalbe the strand thus described is merely connec- tive tissue which accompanies the most lateral group of posterior ciliary arteries as they pierce the sclerotic. THE CORNEA. The cornea, the transparent fore part of the external coat, admits light into the interior of the eyeball. It is nearly circular in shape, but is slightly wider in the trans- verse than in the vertical direction (about 12 mm. and 11 mm. diameter respectively); its arc extends to about one-sixth of the circumference of the whole globe. The cornea has a curvature of a smaller radius than the sclerotic : the degree of its curve varies, however, in different persons, and at different periods of life m the same person, being more prominent in youth than in advanced age. It is also normally a trifle more curved in the vertical than in the horizontal plane. Its thickness is in o-eneral nearly the same throughout, viz., 0-8 mm., excepting towards the periphery, where it becomes somewhat thicker (1-1 mm.) The posterior concave surface exceeds slightly in extent the anterior or convex, in consequence of the latter being encroached on by the superficial part of the sclerotic ; the cornea being- overlapped by the sclerotic like a watch-glass by the edge of the groove into which it is received (see fig. 15) ; the tissues of the two are, however, in complete continuity. Around the junction a slight groove is apparent in the surface of the globe (sulcus sclerce). The tissue of the cornea readily imbibes water and becomes opaque after death. STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. The cornea mav be described as consisting of three parts—a stratified epithelium in front (fig. 19, 1) continuous with the epithelium of the conjunctiva ; a middle part, substantia propria, or cornea proper (3), continuous with the sclerotic, com- posed of modified connective tissue ; and a homogeneous elastic lamella (1), bounding it behind, and itself covered with a simple layer of endothelium cells (5). Epithelium of the Cornea.—The epithelium covering the front of the cornea is of the stratified kind, the cells being in man six to eight deep (fig. 18). The lowermost cells (c) are columnar, with a flattened base, where they rest on the sub- stantia propria, and a rounded apex, upon which a cell of the next layer fits. To the base of each columnar cell is attached a broad, flattened, strongly refracting process, which projects under one of the neighbouring cells (not shown in the figure). Above these columnar cells are two or three layers of polygonal cells, some of the deeper of which (the fingered cells of Cleland) have projections from their under surface which fit between the cells below. These polygonal cells (p) have well-marked denticulations, which join one another across the intercellular spaces which separate the cells. Quite superficially is a stratum of flattened scaly epithelium cells, which retain their nuclei. The proper substance of the cornea is composed, as before said, of a modified form of connective tissue, all the constituents of which have very nearly the same VOL. III., PT. 3. 0IS THE EYE. index of refraction, so that in the perfectly fresh condition it is difficult, even with the best lenses, to make out any indications of structure. After death, however and with the assistance of reagents, the cornea may be ascertained to consist of alternating lamellsa of fibrous tissue (about sixty in uumber, according to Bowman) the^planes of which arc parallel to the surfaces of the cornea. The fibres com- posing the lamellte are nearly straight and have a definite direction in each layer ; they cross one another at right angles in the alternate layers (fig. ] 9, b, d). It must' however, be understood that the layers are not individually distinct, but give off frequent offsets to those above and below, so that they cannot readily be stripped away for any distance. The fibrils are collected into roundish bundles, which as Fig. 18.—Vertical section through the epithelium of the cornea, human. (E. A. S.) Highly magnified. c, deepest columnar cells ; p, polygonal cells, immediately above them ; fi, flattened cells of the surface. The section is slightly broken on the right of the figure. The intercellular channels bridged across by processes extending from one cell to another are distinctly seen. well as the laminas they form, are, as in the connective tissue elsewhere, separated from each other by ground-substance. The latter is in greater abundance between the fibrous strata than elsewhere, and in these parts the cell-spaces of the tissue are found. These cell-spaces, which are readily demonstrated by staining the tissue with nitrate of silver (fig. 20, B), are flattened conformably with the lamella, are of an irregularly stellate figure, and freely communicate by their offsets both with others on the same plane and with those above and below. The greater regularity of arrangement which characterises them, as compared with the cell-spaces of con- nective tissue elsewhere, is dependent on the regularly laminated structure of the cornea. The corpuscles of the tissue—corneal corpuscles (fig. 20, A)—lie within the cell- spaces, corresponding generally with them in form, but without entirely filling them, the room left serving for the passage of lymph and lymph-corpuscles. The protoplasm of the corpuscles is clear, except in the neighbourhood of the nucleus, where it is more granular ; the cells send branching processes along the anastomosing canals of the cell-spaces, which join with those of neighbouring corpuscles; In vertical sections the corpuscles appear fusiform (fig. 19, c), but horizontal sections show them to be flattened conformably with the surface. The cell-spaces can be filled with fluid injection by inserting- the nozzle of a fine syringe into the tissue, and employing- a very low pressure ; in this way a network of anastomosing stellate figures is obtained (cell-spaces, Eecklinghausen's canals). If, however, the injection- fluid is dense or too forcibly injected, it becomes extravasated in the interstices of the fibril-bundles, the direction of which it takes; and the appearance is produced of minute swollen tubular passages running at right angles to one another in the different layers (Bowman's corneal tubes). This appearance may still more readily be obtained if air is injected into the tissue instead of mercury (the fluid used by Bowman), and it is seenTHE CORNEA. u 2 that the injection always stops at the margin of the cornea, where the tissue becomes closer as it passes into the sclerotic, whereas Recklinghausen's canals are continued into the cell-spaces of the sclerotic. --mm. Frequently in advancing- age there occurs a deposit of fatty granules at the margin ot the cornea, forming a whitish opaque ring about 1mm. from the corneo-sclerotic junction. This ring is known as the arcus senilis. Fig. 19.—Vertical section OF HUMAN CORNEA FROM NEAR THE MARGIN. (W.ll- deyer.) Magnified. 1, epithelium ; 2, anterior homogeneous lamina ; 3, sub- stantia propria cornese ; 4, posteriorhoniogeneous (elastic) lamina ; 5, endothelium of the anterior chamber ; a, oblique fibres in the anterior layer of the substantia propria; b, lamellae the fibres of which are cut across, producing a dotted appearance ; c, corneal corpuscles appearing fusiform in section ; d, lamella? the fibres of which are cut longi- tudinally ; e, transition to the sclerotic, with more distinct fibrillation, and surmounted by a thicker epithelium ; /, small blood-vessels cut across near the margin of the cornea. Membrane of Bow- man.—The part of the cornea immediately be- neath the anterior epi- thelium, for a thickness of 0*01 mm. to 0*02 mm., is denser than the rest of the tissue, and entirely free from corpuscles (fig. 18, 2), (anterior homoge- neous lamina, membrane of Bowman). Although described as a separate formation it appears not to differ materially in structure from the rest of the corneal substance, fibres from which may be seen passing obliquely towards, and becoming lost within it (fig. 19, a). It is thickest in the middle, thinning off gradually towards the edges of the cornea. The membrane of Descemet (fig. 19, 4) (membrane of Demonrs, posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), not very closely united with the fibrous part of the cornea, is transparent and glassy in appearance. It is firm and structureless, but very elastic ; and when shreds are removed from it they tend to curl up with the attached surface innermost. It is not readily' affected by acids, by boiling in water, or by maceration in alkalies, but under some conditions it can be split up into very fine lamella?. In thickness it varies from O'OOG mm. to 0-012 mm., being thinnest in the middle and thickening towards the margin. Here also there are20 THE EYE. apt to develop, in adult age, low papilliform projections on the inner surface of the membrane ; with old age these become more marked and the whole membrane becomes thicker, and may measure as much as 0'02 mm. It is lined next the anterior Fig. 20.-A. Corpuscles of the cornea. From a preparation treated With chlor.de of gold (Waldeyer.) B. Cell-spaces of the cornea. From a preparation stained with nitrate of silver. (Waldeyer.) Fig. 21.—Cells of endothe- lium of bird's cornea. (After Smirnov jtnd Nue'l.) A 1 A chamber with an en- dothelium (fig. 19, 5), which resembles that on serous membranes, con- sisting of a single layer of flattened polygonal cells with distinct nuclei. These cells are fibrillar in structure, being tra- versed by bundles of fine fibrils which pass from cell to cell across the intercellular spaces (fig. 21), and are probably formed by threads of protoplasm, for they undergo rapid alteration, and very soon disappear after death or removal of the globe. (Nuel, Smirnow.) Near its circumference the membrane breaks up into bundles of fibres, which give attachment to the ciliary muscle (see fig. 22), but a few fine fibres are continued into the substance of the iris, around the angle of the anterior chamber. To these radiating and anastomosing bundles of elastic fibres prolonged from the circum-sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm (fig. 22, 4). CANAL OF SOHLEMM. ference of Descemet's membrane, the name ligamentum pectinahcm was given by Hueck. They are sometimes known as the pillars of the iris. The fibres which pass to the iris are very much more marked in the eyes of the sheep and the ox than in the human eye. The bundles of the ligamentum pectinatum are covered with endothelial cells, continued from Descemet's membrane, but these cells do not stretch across the intervals between the bundles, so that the cavity of the aqueous chamber is prolonged into, and freely communicates with spaces in the tissue tissue of insertion of canal of canal of tissue of sclerotic. ciliary muscle. Xchlemm. Schlemm. cornea. ciliary muscle. uveal pigment of iris. irk stroma. Fig. 22.—Section (from the eye op a man), showing the relations op the ciliary muscle to °" THE SCLEROTIC, IRIS, AND THE CAVERNOUS SPACES NEAR THE ANGLE OP THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER. (E. A. S.) The figure, which is copied from a photograph, includes only a small portion of the ciliary muscle, the fibres°of which are seen to be converging to a point immediately anterior to the angle of the anterior chamber. Hero they are attached through the medium of a tongue of fibrous tissue of the sclerotic (consisting mainly of circular bundles) to the outer part of the ligamentum pectinatum, which forms a loose tissue with open meshes lying between the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber. To the right of the figure the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum are seen to be gradually converging towards the posterior surface of the cornea, and somewhat beyond the part shown in this figure they merge into the membrane of Descemet. The communication of the canal of Schlemm, which is double in this section, with the endothelial-lined spaces in the ligamentum pectinatum, is seen, as also the communications between the last-named spaces and the anterior chamber. between the bundles (fig. 22). These spaces are much larger and more distinct in some animals than in man, and in them they have received the name of spaces of Fontana. A similar, but rather larger space is found immediately in front of the ligamentum pectinatum in the substance of the sclerotic, close to its junction with the cornea. This circular space, which is elliptical in section, is known as theTHE EYE. (figs. 23, 24, and 25). The canal of Schlemm is often double (fig. 22) ; it communicates with the spaces between the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum, and through these with the aqueous chamber of the eye. But, on the other hand, the canal of Schlemm, and the other cavernous spaces in its neighbourhood, are in communication with the veins of the anterior part of the sclerotic, and therefore the aqueous chamber must also through them communicate with the veins'. In support of this, it was found by Schwalbe that both the spaces and the veins became filled with coloured fluid when this had been injected into the anterior chamber. Why blood does not find its way into the latter during life is not explained, since no valves have as yet been discovered in these veins or spaces • the reason given being, that greater resistance is offered to its passage here than to its return by the ordinary paths. According to Leber, on the other hand, the results obtained by Schwalbe were due to a diffusible colouring matter having been employed for filling the anterior chamber. Leber affirms that when a non-diffusible one is used it never penetrates into the canal of Schlemm. which is simply a large circular terminal vein, or a collection of two or three plexiform veins uniting at frequent intervals into one trunk. It is admitted, however, that fluid may pass with extreme readiness from the anterior chamber into these veins. The study of the development of the eye shows that the loose tissue in which the spaces of Fontana occur, as well as the endothelium of Descemet's membrane and the membrane itself, belong to a vascular layer of mesoblast which is continuous with the choroidal layer of the embryonic eye, but which as development proceeds, becomes separated from the vascu- lar layer of the choroidal coat (iris and pupillary membrane), owing to the formation of the anterior chamber ; it then comes to form part of the cornea. Vessels and nerves.—In a state of health the cornea is not provided with blood-vessels, except at the circumference, where the capillaries of the conjunctiva Fig. 23.—COKNEA OF RABBIT, VIEWED ON THE FLAT, SHOWING THE SUBEPITHE- LIAL PLEXUS ; CHLORIDE OF GOLD PREPARATION. (Ranvier.) n, nerve of fundamental plexus, giving off pencils of fibrils, a, to form the subepi- thelial plexus, e. and sclerotic end in loops. Neither are any lymphatic vessels dis- coverable, unless the channels in which the nerves run, and which are lined with flattened cells and are indirectly in connection with the cell- spaces, are to be taken as representing them. The nerves, on the other hand, are very numerous. Derived from the ciliary nerves, they enter the fore part of the sclerotic, and are from forty to forty-five in number (Waldeyer), forming a plexus which surrounds the margin of the cornea (plexus annularis). Continued into the fibrous part of the cornea, partly directly, partly by passing to the adjacent con- junctiva, they retain their medullary sheath for 1 to 2 mm., and then, becoming non-medullated, ramify and form a plexus in the laminated structure, near the anterior surface. From this, fundamental plexus branches pass obliquely through the anterior homogeneous lamina, where they divide into pencils of fibrils, whose general direction is towards the centre of the cornea, and which join with one another to form a much finer and closer plexus immediately beneath the epithelium. From this subepithelial plexus fine, varicose, fibrils pass among the epithelium-cells, and form here a terminal ramification which extends almost to the free surfaceTHE CHOROID COAT. 28 con- cells At In addition to the nerves which are destined for the epithelium, others, for the proper substance of the cornea, come off from the primary plexuses, and, after uniting into one or more secondary plexuses, the cords of which are still composite, eventually form, in and among the laminffi, a terminal ramification ot ultimate fibrils, the meshes of which are much more open than those of the intra- epithelial network (see fig. 25). An actual connection of these nerves with the Fig. 24.—Vertical section of rab- bit's CORNEA, CHLORIDE OF gold preparation. (Ranvier.) n, r, parts of fundamental plexus ; a, vertical branch passing to sub- epithelial plexus, s; p, b, inter- epithelial ramification. corpuscles of the cornea pro- bably never occurs; although, since the fine nerve-fibrils run in the anastomosing cell- spaces, they come into close connection with the cor- puscles and their processes, and they have therefore been described by some observers as being actually tinuous with the latter. The larger branches of the nerves are covered with a sheath of flattened which, as before mentioned, are in connection with the corpuscles of the cornea. Fig. 25.—Corpuscles and nerves IN" THE SUBSTANTIA PROPRIA OF THE CORNEA OF THE FROG) CHLORIDE OF GOLD PREPARA- TION. (Waldeyer.) 1, bundle of fundamental plexus ; 2, nucleus ; 3, terminal fibril ; 4, corneal corpuscles. the points of junction of the plexuses nuclei are frequently seen (fig. 25, 2), but these appear to belong- to the ensheathing cells, and are not interpolated in the course of the fibres. THE VASCULAR COAT. The vascular coat of the eye (tunica uvea s. vasculosa) lies within the corneo- sclerotic coat, and consists of two parts, which are continuous with one another, viz., the choroid and iris. The choroid is applied to the inner surface of the sclerotic, and the retina is firmly attached to its inner surface ; the iris is attached only at its circumference, otherwise floating freely in the aqueous humour imme- diately in front of the lens, with which it comes lightly into contact, and separated from the cornea by the depth of the anterior chamber. The choroid coat (tunica choroidea) is a dark brown membrane (black m most animals) lying between the sclerotic and the retina. Anteriorly it is continued into the iris, but before it passes into this it forms a number of radial thickenings named ciliary24 THE EYE. processes, disposed in a circle and projecting into the anterior part of the vitreous humour. These give attachment to the suspensory ligament of the lens. The choroid coat is thickest behind, where it is pierced by the optic nerve. The outer surface is connected to the sclerotic by loose connective tissue and by vessels and nerves which pass obliquely across a lymph-space which otherwise serves to separate Fig. 26.—Chohoid membrane and ieis exposed by the removal op the sclerotic and cornea. (After Zinn.) Twice the natural size. a, part of the sclerotic thrown back ; b, ciliary muscle ; c, iris ; e, one of the ciliary nerves • f one ot the vasa vorticosa or choroidal veins. ' J' Fig. 27.—Ciliary processes as seen from behind. Twice the natural size. 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil: 2, anterior part of the choroid coat ; 3, ciliary processes. ^ UJe the two tunics. The inner surface, which is smooth, is covered by the hexagonal pigmented cells of the retina. These, when the retina is detached, generally remain partly adherent to the choroid, and were formerly described as belonging to that coat, but they are now known to be intimately related, both morphologically and physiologically, to the retina. The ciliary part of the choroid with "the ciliary processes is often spoken of as the ciliary body (corpus ciliare). The ciliary processes (fig. 27), about seventy in number, are arranged mendionally, and together form a circle. They consist of larger and smaller thickenings without regular alternation. Each of the larger ones, measuring about 2-5 mm. in length and 0*6 mm. in depth, forms a rounded projection at its inner (anterior) end, which is free from the pigment which invests the rest of the structure ; but externally they gradually taper, and become lost. The smaller processes are only half as deep as the others, and about one-third as numerous. At and near the inner ends the processes are connected by lateral projections. Structure of the Choroid.—The choroid consists mainly of blood-vessels united by delicate connective tissue, which contains numerous large ramified and pigmented cells. Externally the choroid is bounded by a non-vascular membranous layer similar to the lamina fusca of the sclerotic, and known as the lamina suprachoroidea. This is composed of thin membranes of a homogeneous aspect, but pervaded by networks of fine elastic fibres, and covered by large flat cells. It contains also large flattened pigment-cells dispersed irregularly or arranged in patches, with considerable intervalsTHE CHOROID COAT. 25 free from pigment-cells ; and lymphoid cells may occur in it here and there singly or in groups (fig. 28). It is loosely united to the lamina fusca by vessels and bands of connective tissue enclosing pigment-cells, and the two laminae as well as the Fig. 28.—A small portion of lamina supka-choroidka. Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) p, pigment-cells ; /, elastic fibres ; n, nuclei of epithelioid cells (the outlines of the cells are not indicated) ; I, lymphoid cells. uniting structures are coated with endothelium, a lymph-space being thus formed between the sclerotic and choroid. This space communicates, at the places where the vessels and nerves pierce the sclerotic, with that of the capsule of Tenon (Schwalbe). The choroid proper resembles in general structure the lamina suprachoroidea, hut contains in addition a very large number of blood-vessels. From a difference in the fineness of these constituent vessels, it resolves itself into two strata, outer and Fig. 29.—Section of choroid. (Cadiat.) a, membrane of Bruch : the chorio-capillaris is just above it ; b, vascular layer ; c. vein with blood- corpuscles ; d, lamina suprachoroidea. inner ; the former containing the larger branches, and the latter the capillary ramifications. A layer of connective tissue containing many elastic fibres which unites the two strata, and is nearly free from pigment, is sometimes described as a third or intermediate part. Tapetum.—This intermediate layer is markedly fibrous in some mammals, and shines through the layer of choroid and retina in front of it, causing the appearance known as the tapetum. In other mammals and in fish the appearance of a tapetum is produced or26 THE EYE. enhanced by a layer of iridescent endothelial cells, which becomes formed immediately within the fibrous layer (Sattler). Ia the outer part of the coat are situated, as just stated, the larger branches of the vessels. The arteries (short ciliary) are comparatively large and numerous, and Fig. 30.—Lateral view op the arteries op the choroid and iris. (From Arnold.) a, optic nerve ; b, part of the sclerotic left behind ; o, region of ciliary muscle ; d, iris ; 1, posterior ciliary arteries piercing the sclerotic and passing along the choroid ; 2, one of the long ciliary arteries • 3, anterior ciliary arteries. ' Fig. 31.—Lateral view op the veins op the choroid. (From Arnold.) 1, 1, two trunks of the vense vorticosse at the place where they leave the choroid and pierce the sclerotic coat. The other lettering as in fig. 30. piercing the sclerotic close to the optic nerve (figs. 30 and 32), divide into branches which are directed at first forwards but soon bend obliquely inwards to end in the capillary layer; whilst the veins external to the arteries are disposed in curves (vasa Fig. 32.—Injected blood-vessels of the choroid coat (from Sap- pey). 30 diameters. 1, one of the larger veins ; 2, • small communicating vessels ; 3, branches dividing into the smallest vessels. vorticosa) as they converge to four or five principal trunks (fig. 31, l,f; fig. 26), which pierce the sclerotic about half way between the margin of the oornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. In the intervals between the vessels are elongated and stellate pig- ment-cells. The veins, like those of the pia mater, have no muscular tissue ; they are enclosed by an adventitious sheath, between which and the endothelium, which forms the wall of the vein, is a lymph-space (perivascular sheath). The arteries have, besides the ordinary circular muscular fibres, strands of longitudinally disposed plain muscular tissue in their adventitia. As the venae vorticosas pass through the sclerotic they are ensheathed by a prolongation of suprachoroidal tissue (Fuchs).THE CHOROID COAT. 27 The inner part of the choroid coat (tunica RuyscMana s. chorio-capillaris, fio-. 29) is formed mainly by the capillaries of the choroidal vessels. From the ends of the arteries the capillaries radiate and form meshes which are closer than in almost any other texture, being especially fine at the back of the eyeball, near the yellow spot. The network reaches as far forwards as the ora serrata, where its meshes become elongated, and join those of the ciliary processes. The capillaries are embedded in a soft almost homogeneous tissue, and are stated to be enclosed within extensions of the perivascular lymph-spaces of the choroidal veins. Fig. 33. —Diagrammatic representation of the course of the vessels in the eye. Horizontal section. (Leber.) Arteries and capillaries red; teins blue. 0, entrance of optic nerve ; a, short posterior ciliary arteries ; a', branch to the optic nerve ; b, Ion" posterior ciliary arteries ; c, anterior ciliary vessels ; d, posterior conjunctival vessels ; d , anterior conjunctival vessels ; e, central vessels of the retina ; /, vessels of the inner sheath of the optic nerve ; g vessels of the outer sheath ; k, vorticose vein ; i, short posterior ciliary vein ; I, anastomosis of choroidal vessels with those of optic nerve ; m, chorio-capillaris ; n, episcleral vessels ; o, recurrent artery of the choroid ; p, circulus iridis major (in section) ; q, vessels of iris; r, vessels of ciliary process ; s, branch from ciliary muscle to vorticose vein ; t, branch from ciliary muscle to anterior ciliary vein ; u, canal of Schlemm ; v, capillary loop at margin of cornea. Fi». 34.—Vessels of the choroid, ciliary processes, and iris of a child. (Arnold.) Magnified 10 times. a, capillary network of the posterior part of the choroid, ending at b, the ora serrata ; c, arteries of the corona ciliaris, supplying the ciliary processes, d, and passing into the iris, c ; /, the capillary net- work close to the pupillary margin of the iris. The veins begin by the convergence of the choroidal capillaries in a whorl-like manner (fig. 32) to form venous tributaries, which themselves converge again in a similar manner to form the large whorled veins or venas vorticosae, by which the blood is conveyed away from the choroid coat.THE RYE. Fig. 35.—Section through the ciliary part of THE EYE, INCLUDING PART OP THE CORNEA, THE ORA SERRATA, THE IRIS AND THE EDGE OF THE LENS WITH ITS SUSPENSORY LIGAMENT. Magnified (From Fuchs.) C, cornea ; S, sclera ; Ch, choroidea ; H, retina ; Pe, its pigmented epithelium ; o, ora serrata; 0, pars eiliaris retinae ; this is continued over the ciliary processes; pe, pc, pigmented and non-pigmented cells of pars eiliaris ; Z, lens ; M, ciliary muscle ; r, its radiating fibres ; Mu, circular ciliary muscle ■ ci anterior ciliary artery; s canal of Schlemm ;' z, origin of ciliary muscle; e,e, f,f, folds and depressions in anterior surface of iris ; cr, a crevice in this surface (? artificial) ; jp, sphincter pupills : i TV / jr'™ostP™mment part of ciliary process; h, pigment behind iris (pars iridica retina), detached at V; a, bloodvessel; z, zonula of Zinn ; z', z', its continuation on the suspensory ligament; spaces between the fibres of the suspensory ligament; k, capsule of lens.29 THE CILIARY PROCESSES. On the inner surface of the tunica Ruyschiana is a structureless or finely fibrillated transparent membrane, the membrane of Bruch (fig. 29, a), which lies next to the pigmentary layer of the retina, and, especially anteriorly in the region of the ciliary processes, presents on its outer surface numerous microscopic reticulations. It tends to become thickened as age advances. The ciliary processes (corpus ciliare) have the same structure as the rest of the choroid ; but the capillary plexus of the vessels is less fine, and has meshes with chiefly a longitudinal direction ; and the ramified cells, fewer in number, are devoid of pigment towards the free extremities of the folds. The ciliary processes tissue of insertion of canal of canal of tissue of sclerotic. ciliary muscle. Schlemm. Schlemm. cornea. ciliary muscle. uveal pigment of iris. Fig. 36.—Section (from the eye of a man), showing the relations of the ciliary muscle to THE SCLEROTIC, IRIS, AND THE CAVERNOUS SPACES NEAR THE ANGLE OF THK ANTERIOR CHAMBER. (E. A. S.) The figure (which is copied from a photograph) includes only a small portion of the ciliary muscle, the fibres of which are seen to be converging to a point immediately anterior to the angle of the anterior chamber. Here they are attached through the medium of a tongue of fibrous tissue of the sclerotic (consisting mainly of circular bundles) to the outer part of the ligamentum pectinatum, which forms a loose tissue with open meshes lying between the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber. To the right of the figure the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum are seen to be gradually converging towards the posterior surface of the cornea, and somewhat beyond the part shown in this figure they merge into the membrane of Descemet. The communication of the canal of Schlemm, which is double in this section, with the cndothelial-lined spaces in the ligamentum pectinatum is seen, as also the communica- tions between the last named spaces and the anterior chamber. are penetrated for a certain distance by glandular invaginations of the pigmented epithelium which covers their free surface (Collins). These ciliary glands probably assist in the secretion of the aqueous humour. The blood-vessels of the ciliary processes (fig. 34, d) are very numerous ; they are derived from the anterior ciliary arteries and from the vessels of the fore part of30 THE EYE. the choroidal membrane, Several small arterial branches enter the outer part of each ciliary process at first running parallel to each other and communicating sparingly As they enter the prominent folded portion, the vessels become tortuous, subdivide minutely and inosculate frequently, Finally they form short arches or loops, and turn backwards to pour their contents into the radicles of the veins. On the free border of the fold, one artery, larger than the rest, extends the whole length of each ciliary process, and communicates through intervening vessels with a long venous trunlc which runs a similar course on the attached surface. Ciliary muscle.—The anterior part of the choroid', opposite the ciliary pro- cesses, is considerably thickened. The thickening is triangular in section, and is produced by a zone of plain muscular tissue, forming the cilianj muscle (Bowman) {tensorchoroidece, Bruecke). The main part of this muscle arises (figs. 35, 36) by a thm flat expansion from the fore part of the sclerotic close to the cornea between B Fig. 37.—Diagrams showing thk COMPAItATIVK UEVELOPMKNT OP THE CIRCULAR FIBRES OF THE CILIARY MUSCLE IN A, the normal or emmetropic e)'e ; B, the hypermetropic eye ; and C, the myopic eye. (Fucbs.) the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber, its fibres being attached to the bundles of the ligamentum pectinatum which occupies this position. The muscular fibres, spread- ing radially (meridionally), are directed backwards (fig. 35, M), to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to the ciliary processes, and partly further back. At their insertion the fibres pass obliquely and inter-cross so as to form peculiar stellate figures. According to Wal- deyer, a small portion (the outermost) is sometimes in- serted into the sclerotic coat,1 but this must be very rare, for the sclerotic always be- comes detached with the greatest ease from this part of the muscle. The radial fibres pass towards the iris into a ring of fibres (fig. 35, Mu), which have a circular course around the insertion of the iris. This set forms the circular ciliary muscle of H. Muller and is much developed in hypermetropic eyes, but atrophied, or even absent altogether, in myopic (Ivvanoff) (fig. 37). It was formerly described as the ciliary ligament. In birds the ciliary muscle is composed of cross-striped muscular fibres. When the ciliary muscle contracts it tends to draw the choroid and ciliary processes forwards and inwards. 1 This part, if present, is the homologue of an important portion of the ciliary muscle of birds which is known as the Cramptonian muscle.THE IRIS. 31 The suspensory ligament of the lens is thus relaxed and the lens becomes more convex. The nerves of the choroid will be described with those of the iris. The iris is the contractile and coloured membrane which is seen behind the transparent cornea, and gives the tint to the eye. In its centre it is perforated by an aperture—the jntjpii , . . . At its circumferential border, which is nearly circular, the iris is continuous with the choroid, and by the ligamentum pectinatum, with the cornea : the free inner edge is the boundary of the pupil. The iris measures about 11 mm. across, and, in a state of rest, about 5 mm. from the circumference to the pupil (slightly lesson the nasal side) : its thickness is about 0'4 mm. The anterior surface, variously coloured in different eyes, is marked by waved lines converging towards the pupil, near which they join in a series of irregular elevations ; and, internal to these, other' finer lines pass to the pupil. The appearance is produced by the sub- jacent blood-vessels. The posterior surface is covered with dark pigment cells (pars retinalis), and is marked by a number of fine converging folds or thickenings prolonged from the ciliary processes. Fig. 38.—Ciliary processes as seen from behind. (Twice the natural size.) 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil ; 2, anterior part of the choroid coat ; 3, ciliary processes. The pupil is nearly circular in form, and is usually placed a little to the inner side of the centre of the iris. It is constantly varying in size during life, the variation ranging from 1 mm. to 8 mm. It is habitually wider in young than in old persons. Structure of the iris.—A delicate connective tissue forms the framework or stroma of the iris (fig. 39). It contains also very numerous vessels and nerves. The endothelial layer of the membrane of Descemet (fig. 36) is continued from the margin of the cornea over the front of the iris ; its cells are smaller and more granular than those which cover the membrane of Descemet, but are otherwise similar. Depressions of some size have been described in this anterior surface of the iris (Fuchs, Nuel and Cornil): these have been termed stomata, but it is doubtful if they are analogous to the openings of the same name which occur in serous membranes and communicate with subjacent lymphatics. The posterior surface of the iris is covered by a layer of pigmented epithelium two or three cells deep. This is continuous with the (retinal) pigmentary layer covering the ciliary processes, and ends abruptly at the margin of the pupil ; it forms what is known as the pars retinalis iridis (pars iridicaretincv), as distinguished from theirs choroiditis or stroma. The stroma consists of cells and fibres of connective tissue, the latter directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In the substance of the iris anteriorly and throughout its thickness are variously-shaped ramified pigment cells like those in the choroid. The pigment contained in them is yellow, or of lighter or darker shades of brown, according to the colour of the eye. The colour of the iris depends partly on the pigment in the cells of the pars retinalis, partly on that in the stroma cells ; in the eye of the infant and in the different shades of blue eye it arises from the black pigment of the posterior surface appearing more or less through the32 THE EYE. stroma which in such cases is only slightly coloured or is colourless: but in the black brown, and grey eye, the colour is due to the pigment cells scattered through the substance of the stroma itself. 13 The muscular tissue of the iris is disposed as a ring {sphincter pupilla>) around the pupil, and as rays (dilatator pupillx) from the sphincter to he circumference. 1 e str. B Fig. 39.—TWO SE0TIONS OP THE HUMAN IRIS : A, KADIAL ; B, TAKEN ACROSS THE RADII (GK Itetzius). Highly magnified. A basement membrane and endothelium of anterior surface ; str., stroma; s., bundles of fibres retiS)nCter PUpiU8e' CUt aCr°SS (in A); d' layer of dilatator PupiUffi ; r, pigment (pare iridica _ The sphincter muscle (fig. 35, Sp; 39, s, and fig. 40, a) is a narrow band about 0-5 mm. wide, situated close to the pupil posteriorly and consisting of a number of bundles of plain muscular tissue running concentrically with the margin of the pupil. Here the bundles are closely arranged, but further from the margin ihey are more separated, and form less complete rings. The dilator (b), less apparent than the sphincter, begins at the ciliary or outer margin of the iris, and its fibres form a continuous membrane close to the posterior surface, converging towards the pupil. Here they bend round and blend with the sphincter, some reaching nearly to its inner margin. At their origin at the ciliary margin, they also arch round and take a somewhat circular direction. The majority of recent writers on the subject have failed to find evidence of the existence of a distinct layer of dilatator fibres and have consequently denied its existence in man and )VESSELS OF THE IRIS. 38 the mammals. It is admitted, however, to be well developed in birds (where like the intraocular muscular tissue generally it is of the striped variety) and, amongst mammals, m the otter. Other writers have strenuously contended for the existence of a dilatator muscle. I have mvself obtained unmistakeable evidence of the presence of a thin layer of fibres at the back c-t the iris under the pigment-cells, having all the appearance of flat plain muscle-cells Recently physiological proof of the existence of dilatator fibres has been furnished m the cat and other animals by the experiments of Langley and Anderson. The choroidal part of the iris is often described as being bounded on its anterior and Fig. 40.—Segment of the iris, seen from the POSTERIOR SURFACE AFTER REMOVAL OF TflE UVEAL PIGMENT (Iwaiioff). a, sphincter muscle ; 6, dilatator muscle of the pupil. posterior surfaces by special layers, which have been termed the anterior and posterior limiting or hyaline layers. Of these, the anterior layer is merely the superficial part of the general stroma, having the fibres and cells somewhat more closely arranged; and what has usually been described as the posterior is probably the thin muscular sheet of the dilatator pupillte. There may, however, be a thin membrane corresponding to the membrane of Bruch of choroid immediately underlying the epithelium of the pars retinalis. Vessels of the iris (figs. 30 to 34, and fig. 41).—The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the sclerotic a little in advance, and one on each side, of the optic nerve. Having gained the interval between the sclerotic and choroid coats, they extend horizontally forwards covered by loose connective tissue to the ciliary muscle. In this course they lie nearly in the horizontal plane of the axis of the eye-ball, the outer vessel being a little above, and the inner one a little below the level of that line. A little behind the attached margin of the iris, each vessel Fig. 41.—Front view of the blood-vessels of the choroid coat and iris from before. (Arnold.) Magnified 2\ times. a, choroid ; B, iris ; c, ciliary muscle ; 1, 1, long ciliary arteries ; 2, 2, five of the anterior ciliary arteries ramifying at the outer margin of the iris ; 3, loop of com- munication between one of the anterior and one of the long ciliary arteries ; 4, internal circle and network of the vessels of the iris ; 5, external radial network of vessels. divides into an upper and a lower branch, and these, anastomosing with the corresponding vessels on the opposite side and with the an- terior ciliary, form a vascular ring {circulus major, fig. 33, p, fig. 41,3) in this situation. From this circle small branches arise to supply the ciliary muscle ; whilst others converge towards the pupil, and there, freely com- municating by transverse offsets from one to another, form a second circle of anastomosis (circulus minor), from which capillaries are continued inwardly and end in small veins. The anterior ciliary arteries (fig. 33, c, fig. 41, 2, 2), five or six in number, but smaller than the vessels just described, are supplied from the muscluar and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic artery, and pierce the sclerotic about VOL. III., PT. 3. D84 THE EYE. 2 mm behind the margin of the.cornea; they divide into branches which supply the ciliary processes, and join the circulus major. 11 ' Fig. 42.— Pupillary membrane of new-born kitten INJECTED, (Kolliker, from a preparation by Thiersch.) Magnified. Besides these special arteries, numerous minute vessels enter the iris from the ciliary processes. The veins of the iris follow closely the arrangement of the arteries just described. The canal of Schlemm communicates with this system of vessels. Pupillary membrane. — In the foetus the pupil is closed by a thin transparent vascular mem- brane, the vessels in which are continued from those of the iris and of the capsule of the lens jnMdle of the pupil the vessels of the L^X^tJZ^l ™* ThT dl+SaPPT £ thG SeVenth °r ei^th month of foetal We, becoming obUteSS from the centre towards the circumference, and the membrane itself is ^aduaUy absorbed in like manner. A few shreds may still remain at birth : sometimes the whoSmembranev*Ss£. Nerves of the choroid and iris.-The ciliary nerves (fig. 43), about fifteen in number, and derived from the ciliary ganglion and the nasal branch of the ^--Anterior chcunber Ik Great vorti- cose veitv joctssincf W tktvuqksdera, % Anterior cidewu arteries " Great -uorticose. Sclerotic Ciliary nerves t ,josterwr ciZLcuy arteries posterior ciliary arberie-s Fig. 43.—Diagram showing the principal nerves and blood-vessels op the eyeball. (Testut.) ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, pierce the sclerotic near the entrance of the optic nerve, and come immediately into contact with the choroid. They are some- /85 THE RETINA. what flattened in form, arc partly imbedded in grooves on the inner surface of the sclerotic, and communicate occasionally with each other before supplying- the cornea and entering the ciliary muscle. When the sclerotic is carefully separated from the subjacent structures, these nerves are seen lying on the surface of the choroid, Fjcr. 44.—Distribution of nerves in the iris ' (Kblliker). 50 Diameters. The preparation was from the eye of an albino rabbit; a, smaller branches of the ciliary nerves advancing from the choroid ; b, loops of union between them at the margin of the iris ; c, arches of union in the iris ; c', finer plexus in the inner part; e, sphincter pupillae muscle. into which they send branches, and in which they form a gangliated plexus amongst the blood-vessels, the groups of ganglion-cells being often applied to the walls of the vessels. Within the ciliary muscle the nerves also subdivide minutely, forming here another plexus, which contains a number of medullated fibres, and the cells of which are smaller. A few recurrent branches appear to pass back from it into the choroid coat, but the greater number pass on to the iris (fig. 44, a, a). In the iris the nerves follow the course of the blood-vessels, dividing into branches, which communicate with one another as far as the pupil, forming a close plexus of fine non-medullated fibres. Their ultimate destination is probably mainly the muscular tissue of the iris and of its vessels. THE RETINA. The retina is a delicate membrane, which contains the expanded termination of the optic nerve. It lies within the choroid coat, and rests on the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It extends forwards nearly to the outer edge of the ciliary processes of the choroid, where it ends in an indented border, named ora serrata (fig. 45). From this border there is continued onwards a thin layer of a different structure and containing no nerve-fibres, the pars ciliaris retina, which reaches as far as the tips of the ciliary processes, and there gives place to the double layer of pigment known as the uvea, which is continued on to the posterior surface of the iris {pars iridica retince). The thickness of the retina diminishes from behind forwards, from 0'5 mm. near the yellow spot to 0*1 mm. at the ora serrata. In the fresh eye it is translucent and of a light pink colour, but of a purple-red colour if kept in the dark for a little while before removal. Under the influence of sunlight it is quickly bleached and after death it soon becomes opaque. The colouring matter was discovered by Boll and has been specially investigated by Kiihne, who has given it the name of rhodopsin. It is absent at the yellow spot and central fovea, and also close to the ora serrata. The outer surface of the retina is covered with a layer of hexagonal pigment-cells which send fine offsets between the elements of the next retinal layer : the rhodopsin becomes developed in this layer by the agency of these pigment-cells. When the choroid is detached these offsets are ruptured and the pigment-cells come away with it, so that this layer was formerly described as part of the choroid coat. The inner surface of the retina is smooth : on it the following objects may be seen. In the axis of the ball is a yellow spot—macula lutea Qimbus luteus, Sommerring)—which is somewhat elliptical in shape (fig. 45), and about 1 to 2 mm. in diameter : in the centre of this, again, is a slight hollow, fovea centralis, 0"2 mm. to 0*4 mm, in diameter (fig. 45), and, as the retina is thinner here than elsewhere, i> 286 THE BYE. the pigmentary layer is more clearly visible through it in the dead oonrlirinn r i i ratarior tli ft i T- , th° bVel °f a horizontiU line «'">ugh the postenor pole of the eyeball m a pale, round disc, pom, opticus (figs. 4(i and 47), CONJUNCTIVE MUSCULUS CILIARIS CftNAUS '*5$V. SCMLEMMII RAL SHEATH Fig. 45. -Right adult human kk, divided horizontally through the middle. (Magnified five times.) The line a b passes through the equator, x y through the visual axis of the eye. where the optic nerve pierces the retina and expands to form its inner layer. The < ) (fig. 45) and m its centre, which often shows a well-marked depression, is the point from which the vessels of the retina branch.37 THE RETINA. When examined during life by the aid of the ophthalmoscope, the optic disc appears of a light grey tint, contrasting strongly with the red colour of the rest of the held. In the central depression of the disc are remnants of the tissue which, m the foetus, accom- nasal tej§p^V^--v*U<v f temporal 1U Fig. 46.—Views of the posterior part of the retina. Variously magnified. A. The posterior half of the retina of the left eye, viewed from before. (Henle.) Twice the natural size. s, cut edge of the sclerotic ; ch, choroid ; r, retina : in the interior at the middle the macula lutea with' the depression of the fovea centralis is represented by a slight oval shade ; towards the left side the light spot indicates the colliculus or eminence at the entrance of the optic nerve, from the centre of which the arteria centralis is seen sending its branches into the retina, leaving the part occupied by the macula comparatively free. B. —Fundus of the eye, as seeu with the ophthalmoscope. (Jaeger.) Somewhat magnified. a, a, ai-teries ; v, v, veins ; /, fovea. C. —The point of entrance of the optic nerve as seen with the ophthalmoscope. (Jaeger.) Magnified still more. a, optic nerve, passing through the lamina cribrosa, h, which shows through the disc-like expansion of the entering nerve ; a, ring of connective tissue ; b, choroidal ring ; c, branches of the' central artery of the retina, </; d, branches of the central vein, h ; n, inner or nasal side ; t, outer or temporal side.38 THE EYE. puledI the prolongation of the central artery of the retina along the canal of Stilling (% 45) through the rftreoUB body to the capsule of the lens; in some eyes this tissue can be followed for somo distance into the vitreous humour. a v sd sa n se a v n se p or$w Fig. 47.- Suction through the place of entrance of the optic nerve (B), together with the (¥uZTS7iegevT °* *** ^ ^ ™ **™ ™ corresponding parts of the two C, d lines of correspondence ; 6, depression in centre of disc ; r, retina ; ch, choroid ; H so inner and outer parts ot the .sclerotic coat, s ; ci, a ciliary artery cut longitudinally ; a, v. central artery and vein ; sd subdural space ; ^subarachnoid space ; du, dural sheath ; ar, arachnoidal sheath of nerve ; p, pial sheath : n, nerve bundles ; se, septa between them. MICEOSCOPIC STEUCTUBE OF THE EETINA. When vertical sections of the retina, i.e., sections made perpendicularly to its surface, are submitted to microscopic examination, eight distincc strata are recog- nizable, together with certain fibrous structures which pass vertically throuo-h the membrane and connect the several layers. The^following are the designations of the layers, from within outwards :— 1. The layer of nerve-fibres (stratum opticum). 2. The layer of nerve-cells {ganglion nervi optici). 3. The inner molecular layer {stratum reticulare internum). 4. The inner nuclear layer {stratum granularum internum, ganglion relitue). 5. The outer molecular layer (stratum reticulare externum). 6. The outer nuclear layer (stratum granularum externum). 7. The layer of rods and cones (stratum bacillorum). 8. The layer of hexagonal pigment cells (stratum nigrum). In addition to these eight strata two very delicate membranes have been described—the one, memlrana limitans interna, bounding the retina on its inner surface, next to the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour; the other, membranaMICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 39 limitans externa, lying between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones • but, as will be afterwards explained, these so-called " membranes are merely the boundary lines of the sustentacular tissue of the retina. The accompanying fio-nre from Max Schultze, represents diagrammatically the general arrangement of the layers (fig. 48). ...in The several layers of the retina will first be considered successively as they are met with from within out, after which the sustentacular fibres or fibres of Miiller, which traverse several of the layers, and the connection of the nervous elements Outer or choroidal surface. 8. Layer of pigment cells. 7. Layer of rods and cones. ..Membrana limitans externa. x; 6. Outer nuclear layer. 5. Outer molecular layer. 4. Inner nuclear layer. So 3. Inner molecular layer 2. Layer of nerve-cells. 1. Layer of nerve-fibres. . Membrana limitans interna Inner or vitreous surface. Fig. 48. —Diagrammatic section of the human retina (Schultze). throughout the retina with one another will be described. Finally an account will be given of those parts of the retina which pressnt points of difference from the rest, especially the central fovea, and the ciliary part. 1 Layer of nerve-fibres.—The optic nerve passes at the porus opticus directly through the thickness of the retina to reach its inner surface (fig. 47) on which it spreads out in the form of a membrane which extends to the ora serrata. Its fibres, which are destitute of a primitive sheath and vary much m size, but are mostly small, lose their medullary sheath on reaching the retina consisting there normally of axis-cylinder only (Bowman). In rare cases some of them may retain their medullary sheath for a short distance. They are collectedTHE EYE. into small bundles, which, compressed laterally, intercommunicate and form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes (fig. ,!<,). At the yellow ! - almost wanting! and indeed it ceases at U^t^^ZStSiiZ a continuous stratum, gradually diminishing in thickness in front, intc 'r p ed lv by the enlarged ends of the fibres of Midler to be afterwards des rib d 2 ]8 f 110 ^ve-bundles, as well as the cells of the next layer, are partially LpporS by neurogha-oells (spider-oells). Most of the fibres are contiguous w tl he Jl cylinder processes of the cells of the next layer (fig. 50 i) but some at ™ mued through the second and third layers, and end by rajdfring ehthei in the mner molecular layer or amongst the elements of the fourth laye^ inn g auule T the terminations being frequently somewhat knobbed or enlarged (fig 50 f Z) 2 Ganghonic layer—Immediately external to the nerve-fibre layer is a stratum of nerve-cells (fig. 48, 2), having in the fresh condition a pe lu id asp ct I m F.Ty Tt 111 merd Vn fig'Ure' S°me bein^ sPh^idal, others morepy - form. Each cell has a single nnbranched nerve-fibre process extending obliquely OptOc, n&rve* Macula, lutea. Fig. 49. Magnified view of the innermost layer of the retina, showing the bundles of UPTIC NERVE FIBRES RADIATING FROM THE PAPILLA. (Merkel.) from its rounded inner extremity amongst the fibres of the preceding layer, with one of which it is continuous. From the opposite end of the cell, which s fre- thTck r It f m SUbStaUCe °f *e SUCCeedi^ ^ 0ne> ^ 'or more much hnw Pr0^lasm!c .Processes extend outwards for a variable distance into that stiatum, and branch m its substance (fig. 50, v., vi., vn.). The branching occurs at different levels for different cells, the smaller cells as a rule having the terminal ramification of their protoplasmic processes nearer the ganglionic layer, the larger ones nearer the inner nuclear layer. The arborisations are mostly flattened conformably with the retinal strata, and in sections of retina produce the appearance of coarse hues m the molecular stratum. The number of nerve-cells and con- sequently the thickness of the ganglionic layer in the different regions of the retina varies largely. Over the greater part of the retina they form a single stratum, but in the neighbourhood of the yellow spot they are placed two or three deep. At the spot itself (fig. 60, 2) they are very thickly set; the cells are also smaller here lowards the ore serrate, on the other hand, there is but a single stratum, and that frequently incomplete.LAYERS OP THE RETINA. 41 The gan«dion-cells of the retina may be classed into those the protoplasmic or peripheral processes of which ramify in a diffuse maimer in the inner molecular layer, and those the protoplasmic processes of which are ramified horizontally in one or more ot the strata of that layer where they interlace with similar ramifications from the cells of the inner nuclear layer The diffusely ramifying cells (fig-. 50, VII., i) are usually small and with slender processes and this is also the case with some of the cells with stratified processes (fig. 50, v., a ; VI., e), but many of the latter are larger, sometimes very large (giant cells), and with comparatively C°aThePcells\vVth stratified processes are classified by R. y Cajal according to the stratum of the inner molecular layer in which these processes ramify. Some ramify, however, m two, and even in more layers (bi- and multi-stratified). Three types of the stratified cells can usually be distinguished. They may be termed first, second, and third, or from their relative size, large, medium, and small, and some of each type appear to belong, as regards the dis- tribution of their arborescence, to each stratum of the inner molecular layer. Mrst type —Those of the large type have a thick axis-cylinder process and one, two, or more coarse protoplasmic processes, varying in vertical extent in different cells according to the stratum of the inner molecular layer for which they are destined. Their terminal arborescences extend over a considerable area, and are open in nature. The largest cells of this type (°-iant cells) send their processes to the outer strata of the molecular layer (fig. 53, VTI., a c e) • processes to the inner strata come from cells of the same type but of smaller size. 'Second f y/^.-The ganglion-cells of this type (fig. 50, vi., vn., /, g, //) vary in size of cell-body but are usually smaller than those of the first type, and of pyriform shape, the stalk of the pear being directed outwards for a variable distance in the molecular layer according to the position within this of the terminal arborescence. The latter is composed of moderately fine varicose filaments which form a compact, closely interwoven ramification, occupymg some thickness of the molecular layer, the arborescence being less flattened out than is the case with those from many of the cells of the first and third types. Third tape— This is represented by cells usually pyriform with small cell-bodies and correspondingly fine moderately arborescent processes, which may radiate from the end of a straight outwardly directed stalk, as in the case of those which ramify in the outer strata of the molecular layer (fig. 50, VI., a), or may spring in a similar radiating manner from the body of the cell itself, as with those ramifying in the inner strata (fig. 50, VII., b~). 3. Inner molecular or inner plexiform layer, neurospongium.—Next in order to the ganglionic layer comes a comparatively thick stratum of a granular- looking substance, which as preparations treated by the methods of Ehrlich or of Golgi show, is mainly made up of the arborescent terminations of the processes of the°cells in the layers which bound it internally and externally. A few branched cells, apparently of nervous nature, occur within the layer (fig. 50, Hi.) ; these are probably allied to the amacrine cells of the layer next to be described. The inter- laced arborisations of the ganglion-cells, amacrine cells, and bipolars form withm it definite strata which, according to E. y Cajal, are altogether five in number. There are a few blood-vessels in this layer, and the fibres of Miiller pass through it as fine vertical filaments with delicate lateral offsets. 4. Inner nuclear layer.—This is composed of a number of closely-packed cells, which are frequently known collectively as the " inner granules," but are of several distinct kinds. Some are bipolar nerve-cells, and it is the presence of these Avhich has led to the name ganglion retina being applied to this layer. They occupy the bulk of the stratum and send processes inwards and outwards into the respective molecular layers. Others are multipolar nerve-cells, the processes of which ramify in the molecular layers ; they form incomplete strata close to and partly imbedded in the molecular layers. Others, again, are nucleated enlargements belonging to the fibres of Miiller. The structure and arrangements of each of these elements must be separately considered. a. Bipolar-cells.—These, by far the most numerous, are round or oval clear cells (fig. 50, i., in. ; fig. 51, 4), prolonged at either end into a fibre. Of the processes or fibres which proceed from these cells, the inner one, or that extending into the inner molecular layer, is finer than the other, is always unbranched until reaching that layer, and often exhibits varicosities similar to those on nerve-43 INNER NUCLEAR LAYER OF THE RETINA. fibrils. It is regarded as the axis-cylinder process of the cell, and extends usually to the inner part of the internal molecular layer, within which it ends in a terminal ramification of varicose fibrils which is frequently in close proximity to the outer surface of one or more of the ganglion-cells of the layer. The outer prolongation or process of the bipolar cell is not varicose, is usually thicker than the inner one, and in some cases passes undivided into the next layer, in others divides before reaching it. Having arrived at the outer molecular layer it breaks up into an arborisation within this layer, which is interlaced with arborisations of fibres belonging to the horizontal cells presently to be described, and with the termina- tions "of the rod- and cone-elements of the bacillary layer. It has been shown by R. y Cajal that the bipolars are of at least two kinds, distinguishable by the character of the terminal arborescence of the outwardly-directed protoplasmic Fig. 50.—Elements op the ketina of mammals displayed by the chromate op silver method of Golgi. (Cajal.) I. Section of the dog's retina, a, cone-fibre ; b, rod-fibre and nucleus ; c, d, bipolar cells (inner granules) with vertical ramification of outer processes destined to receive the enlarged ends of rod-fibres ; e, bipolars with flattened ramification for ends of cone-fibres ; /, giant bipolar with flattened ramifi- cation ; g, cell sending a neuron or nerve-fibre process to the outer molecular layer; h, amacrine cell with diffuse arborisation in inner molecular layer ; i, nerve fibrils passing to outer molecular layer ; j, centrifugal fibres passing from nerve-fibre layer to inner molecular layer ; m, nerve-fibril passing into inner molecular layer ; n, ganglionic cells. _ II. Horizontal or basal cells of the outer molecular layer of the dog s retina. A, small cell witn dense arborisation ; B, large cell, lying in inner nuclear layer but with its processes branching in the outer molecular ; a, its horizontal neuron ; C, medium sized cell of the same character. III. Cells from the retina of the ox. a, rod-bipolars with vertical arborization ; b, c, d, e, cone- bipolars with horizontal ramification ; /, g, bipolars with very extensive horizontal ramification of outer process ; h, cells lying on the outer surface of the outer molecular layer, and ramifying within it; i, j, m, amacrine cells within the substance of the inner molecular layer. IV. Neurons or axis-cylinder processes belonging to horizontal cells of the outer molecular layer, one of them, b, ending in a close ramification at a. _ V. Nervous elements connected with the inner molecular layer of the ox s retina. A, amacrine cell, with long processes ramifying in the outermost stratum ; B, large amacrine with thick processes ramifying in second stratum ; C, flattened amacrine with long and fine processes ramifying mainly m the firsthand fifth strata: D, amacrine with radiating tuft of fibrils destined for third stratum ; E, large amacrine, with processes ramifying in fifth stratum ; F, small amacrine, branching in second stratum ; G, H, other amacrines destined for fourth stratum ; a, small ganglion-cell sending its processes to fourth stratum ; 6, a small ganglion-cell with ramifications in three strata ; c, a small cell ramifying ultimately iu first stratum ; d, a medium sized gangliou-cell ramifying in fourth stratum ; e, giant cell, branching in third stratum ; /, a bi-stratified cell ramifying in second and fourth strata. VI. Amacrines and ganglion-cells from the dog. A, amacrine with radiating tuft; B, large amacrine passing to third stratum ; C and Gr, small amacrines with radiations in second stratum ; F, small amacrine passing to third stratum ; D, amacrine with diffuse arborisation ; E, amacrine belonging to fourth stratum ; a, d, e, g, small ganglion-cells, ramifying in various strata ; 6, /, large ganglion-cells, showing two different characters of arborisation ; t, bi-stratified cell. VII. Amacrines and ganglion-cells from the dog. A, B, C, small amacrines ramifying in middle ot molecular layer; b, d, g, h, i, small ganglion-cells showing various kinds of arborisation ; /, a larger cell, similar in character to </, but with longer branch ; a, c, e, giaut cells with thick branches ramifying in the first, second, and third layers ; L, L, ends of bipolars branching over ganglion-cells. process, and by the position in the internal molecular layer in which the axis- cylinder process terminates. In one kind this arborescence is composed of a dendritic tuft of vertical fibrils, somewhat varicose and enclosing amongst them the end-knobs of several (3 to 20) of the rod-fibres of the bacillary layer ; and the axis- cylinder process ends in a varicose ramification over a body of a cell of the ganglionic layer. These may be termed, therefore, the rod-Mpolars, or bipolars with vertical arborescence (fig. 50, I., c ; in., a). In the other kind (cone-bipolars) this terminal arborescence is horizontal (fig. 50, I., e ; in., b, c, d, e), and abuts against or interlaces with the ramified foot of one or more cone-fibres, and the axis-cylinder process usually extends to a less depth of the internal molecular layer, and is not constant in position as is that of the rod-bipolar ; the axis-cylinder process of either kind may give off short collaterals in traversing the inner molecular layer. Some of44 THE EYE. the cone-bipolars have their horizontal arborescence extendi,,. over a Iarffe . the outer molecular layer Cfie- 50 i f m /■ „\ , ,. i u 11 -1 g ea 01 considerable number In birds, reptiles, and amphibia some of the bipolar cells-probably correspond mg to those described above as cone-bipolars . iv, off from \hX ^ V within the outer molecular layer a n branched -^^Z^mTS and just beyond the meinbrana limitans externa (fibril of LandoU)where inn n ends ,n a chvafce enlargement (fig. 51, E). According J S t absent » mammals and teleosteans. J ent m The relative length of the inner and outer process of the bipolar* natnmllv d ffers according to the position of the individual cell in the nuclTkyer if t cell s near the inner molecular layer the outer process will have a longe course to each the outer molecular layer, and, conversely, if the cell is near die latter At and near the central fovea these processes or fibres of the inner nuclea 1^ have a Fig. 51.—Section op bihd's RETINA, PREPARED BY GOLGl's METHOD. (R. v Cajal.) J A, J3, large spongioblasts of inner nuclear layer; C, smaller spongioblast of the same layer; D, small bi- polar cells with one process, a, b, ending in terminal rami- fications in the inner molecular layer, and the other process ending partly in a flattened ramification in the outer mole- cular layer and partly in a filament which ends at the external limiting membrane in an enlarged extremity (at E) ; F, TOd and cone nuclei ; H, I, cells with ramifications in the outer molecular layer ; J, fibre of Miiller. IlX ) "i, i f"' - tTersulyce°sbliqUe direCti°n' * °fchei' **** °f ^ refciUa th<* run Deai^ vertica% t0 b Spongioblasts (of.inner molecular layer) of W. Miiller: arnacrim* cells of Caja .-These, which are placed in the inner part of the inner nuclear layer, form an almost complete stratum, which is termed by Cajal the layer of amacrine cells As this name implies it has not hitherto proved possible to demonstrate the* existence of an axis-cylinder process in these cells (which arc nevertheless regarded by Cajal as nerve-cela-), but they possess, on the other hand, extensively ramified protoplasmic processes which are wholly included within the inner molecular layer and mostly form horizontal arborisations in the several strata of that layer There are several kinds of these cells, which differ amongst one another much in the ' a, privative ; fiai<p6s, long ; ivos, fibre, m LdmS' f ?tU1; Tl alI,Phibia tLerc ■» * certain number of large cells in this layer which have45 LAYERS OF THE RETINA, same way as do the cells of the ganglion-cell layer, that is to say, part y in the varying size of the cell-body, and the character of the cell-processes, partly in the position of fcheir terminal arborescences within the inner molecular layer. The varieties of amacrine cells described by Cajal are firstly, those with diffusely ramified orooesses their arboresoenoe extending throughout the whole depth of the molecular layer (fie 50 i h- VI D), and secondly, those having their terminal arborescences horizontally placed in'the several strata of the molecular layer. Of these so-called stratified amacrmes there are. as in the case of the ganglion-cells, three principal types— (1 ) Those of the first type (fig. 50, v., B, E ; VI., B) have for the most part very large cell-bodies and a thick stalk-like process, sometimes more than one, extending into the inner molecular layer, and ramifying in one or other of its strata over a considerable extent of area, but with comparatively few and relatively coarse processes. A good deal of variation is, however met with in the character and extent of these processes. (9 ) Those of the second type (fig. 50, v., F, G, H : VI., E, F, G ; m, B, C) have a pyriform cell-body of medium size with a straight stalk passing into the molecular layer, and ending m one of its strata in a moderately extended close interlacement of fibrils. (3) The amacrines of the third type .(fig. 50, v., D ; VI., C) are of small or medium size, usually with a fine stalk-like process passing into the molecular layer. From the lower (inner) end of this process a terminal tuft of very fine radiating fibrils spreads out m one of the strata of the molecular layer,'the extent of the arborescence thus formed being oftentvery considerable. When, however, the arborescence is near the inner nuclear layer, the bonis may come off from the body of the cell (fig. 50, v., VI., A), c. Spongioblasts ofouter molecular layer: horizontal cells of Cajal: lasal cells.— These are flattened or irregularly projecting cells, the bodies of which occupy the outermost part of the inner nuclear layer, whilst their greatly ramified processes extend into and end in the outer molecular layer. The stratum in which they he is termed by Cajal the layer of horizontal cells ; it was previously described by W. Krause as the membrana fenestrata. Two kinds of these cells have been noticed by Cajal in mammals, and by their situation they serve to subdivide the layer into two strata, an inner and an outer. (1 ) The cells in the inner stratum of the layer are large and broadly pyramidal in shape, the base being directed towards the outer molecular layer, and resolving itself into a large number of coarse but rapidly tapering processes which end in small tufts of short varicose vertical fibrils at about the level in the outer molecular layer in which the knobs of the rod- fibres occur. The apex of the pyramid is sometimes truncated, but m other cases can be traced as a' thick vertical process down into the inner molecular layer, where it ends m horizontal branches. Each cell has a long axis-cylinder process, which extends for a con- siderable distance within the outer molecular layer to end in a closely interlaced terminal ramification (fig. 50, II., B, C ; IV., a). » (2 ) Semilunar cells, from the upper (outer) flattened surface of which a thick brush ot closely interlacing radiating filaments comes off and passes vertically outwards towards the base of the rod- and cone-fibres (fig. 50, II., A). These also have an axis-cylinder process which passes, horizontally and a little upwards to end in the outer part of the outer molecular layer. 5. Outer molecular layer.—The outer molecular layer is much thinner than the inner, but otherwise presents, in vertical sections of hardened retina, a similar granular appearance. This layer (fig. 50, n.) is largely formed of the processes of the horizontal cells which have just°been described, and also of the outwardly directed protoplasmic processes of the bipolars, which ramify within it and interlace with similarly ramifying fibres from the cones, and with the knobbed ends of the rod-fibres. In some mammals there are cells with widely extending branched processes resting upon the outer surface of the outer molecular layer (fig. 50, in., h), much in the same way as some of the amacrine cells rest upon the inner molecular. The outer molecular layer also receives fine axis-cylinder processes which pass into it from the inner molecular (fig. 50, I., *), but whence they are derived is not known.46 THE EYE. The layers hitherto described contain structures (cells and fibres) which are undoubted^ sciuctme m its external portion (rod or cone proper) exce\™L^tebdtv Zf^T'" V™*** int0 thiB epithelial la^' but a remarkable 6. Outer nuclear layer.-This (figs. 48, 50, 52) resembles very closely at first sight, in sections of retina stained with hematoxylin or carmine, the inner nuclear Fig. 52.—Diagram of some of the nervous and epithelial elements of the retina. (Modified from Schwalbe.) The numbers are the same as in fig. 47. layer ; appearing, like that, to consist of clear, oval or elliptical, nuclear corpuscles (outer granules), from the ends of which delicate fibres are prolonged. These outer granules differ, however, essentially from the inner granules, and may be readily distinguished from them. They are of two kinds, which present well- marked differences, and are known respectively as the rod-granules and cone-granules, accordingly as they are connected with the rods or with the cones of the next retinal layer. Those which are connected with the rods are, in most parts of the retina, by far the more numerous, and form the main thickness of the outer nuclear layer. They may be regarded as enlarge- ments or swellings in the course of delicate fibres (rod- fibres), which extend from the inner ends of the rods at the membrana limitans externa through the thick- ness of this layer to the outer molecular layer. The enlargements, of which there is but one to a fibre, situated at any part of its course, are each occupied by an elliptical nucleus, and, in the fresh condition, exhibit a remarkable cross-striped appearance (Henle), the strongly refracting substance which mainly com- poses the enlargement being interrupted by bands or disks of a clearer, less refracting material, usually two in number, one on each side of the middle line (fig. 52), but occasionally single and median (see the left-hand one in fig. 52). The rod-fibres are of extreme fineness, and exhibit minute varicosities in their course : each is directly continuous at the outer end with one of the rods but at the inner end terminate in a somewhat larger varicosity (ond-lrnob). These end-knobs lie in the outer part of the outer molecular layer, and are embedded in the tufts of which the terminal arborisations of the rod-bipolars are formed. In amphibia and birds (but not in nocturnal birds) fine fibrils radiate from these end-knobs (fig. 51), but in mammals and teleosteans these fibrils are absent (Cajal). Those outer granules which are connected with the cones are, in most parts of the retina, much fewer in number than the rod-granules, from which they are dis-47 RODS AND CONES OF TFTE RETINA. (anguished by their shape, which is somewhat pyrifonn, by the absence of transverse striation, and by their position—for they occupy the part of the outer nuclear layer nearest the meinbrana limitans externa,1 and the larger end of each is thus in close proximity to the base of the corresponding cone (fig. 48), with which it is directly connected, or there is at most a short, comparatively thick stalk uniting the two (see fig. 52). At the macula lutea, however, where only cone-granules are met with, many of them are further removed from the limiting membrane, and the stalk is then longer (fig. GO). The nucleus of each cone-granule, which, as in the case of the rod-granules, occupies almost all the enlargement, is spheroidal, and contains a distinct nucleolus. The cone-fibre is very much thicker than the rod-fibre above described, and is itself finely striated or fibrillated. It passes from the smaller end of the pear-shaped enlargement straight through the outer nuclear layer to reach the outer molecular layer, upon which it rests by a somewhat pyramidal base (cone- foot), from which ramifications may be traced into the substance of the molecular layer where they interlace with the ramifications of the peripheral processes of the cone-bipolars (see above) (fig. 52). 7. The layer of rods and cones.—The elements which compose this layer are, as their name implies, of two kinds, those of the one kind—the rods—having an Fig. 53.—Outer surface ov the columnar layer op the retina (Kblliker). 350 diameters. a, part within the macula lutea, where only cones are present ; 6, part near the macula, where a single row of rods intervenes between the cones ; c, from a part of the retina midway between the macula and the ora serrata, showing the preponderance of the rods. elongated cylindrical form (about 0-060 mm. long and 0'002 mm. diameter); the cones, on the other hand, being shorter (0*035 mm.), much thicker (0*006 mm.), bulged at the inner end or base, and terminated externally by a finer tapering portion. Both rods and cones are closely set in a palisade-like manner over the whole extent of the retina between the membrana limitans externa and the pig- mentary layer (fig. 48, 7). Except at the macula lutea, where only cones are met with, the rods far exceed the cones in number. Their relative number and arrangement is well exhibited when the layer is viewed from the outer surface, as in fig. 53, where a represents a portion of the layer from the macula lutea ; b, from the immediate neighbour- hood of the latter ; and c, from the peripheral part of the retina. o Fig. 54.—A ROD AND A CONE FROM THE HUMAN RETINA (Max Schultze). (Highly magnified.) In the rod the longitudinal striation of both the outer and inner segments is shown ; in the cone the transverse striation of the outer segment and the longitudinal of the inner segment; I, limitans externa. The total number of cones in the human retina has been calculated to exceed three millions ; and of rods many times this number. It may be of interest here to note that the number of fibres in each optic nerve is about half a million (Salzer). The rods and the cones, although differing thus in shape and size, agree in many points of structure. Thus, each consists of two distinct segments—an inner and an outer ; the division between the two occurring, in the case of the rods, about the middle of their length (in man) ; in the cones at the junction of the finer tapering 1 In Teleostei the cone-nuclei lie outside the limitans externa,IS THE EYE. end-pieoe with the basal part ; consequently, the outer and inner segments of the rods are nearly similar in size and shape, the inner being, however, slightly bulged whereas the inner segment of eacli cone far exceeds the outer one in size, the latter appearing merely as an appendage of the inner segment (fig. 54) The two segments both of the rods and cones exhibit well-marked dffferences in their cnemicaJ and optical characters, as well as in the structural appearances which may be observed ,n them. Thus, whih. in both the outer segment is doubly refracting in its action upon light, the inner is, on the contrary, singly refracting : the inner becomes stained by carmine, iodine, and other colouring fluids, whilst the outer remains uncolourcd by these reagents, but is stained greenish-brown by osmic acid. Hie outer segment in both shows a tendency to break up into a number of minute superposed disks. The inner segment of each is distinguishable into two parts- Figs. 55 and 56.-Sections op frog's retina showing the action op light upon the pigment- cells, and upon the eods and cones, (v. Genderen-Stort.) Fig. 55, from a frog which Lad been kept in the dark for some hours before death. Pig. 56, from a frog which had been exposed to light just before being killed. Three pigment cells are shown in each section. In Fig. 55, the pigment is collected towards the nucleated part of the cell, m Fig 56 it extends nearly to the bases of the rods. In Fig. 55 the rods, outer segments, were coloured red (the detached one green), in Fig. 56 they had become bleached. In Pig. 5o, the cones, which in the lrog are much smaller than the rods, are mostly elongated, in Fig. 56 they are all contracted. • 6 an outer part, composed, according to Max Schultze, of fine fibrils, and an inner parr, homogeneous, or finely granular, and, at the membrana limitans externa, directly con- tinued into a rod or cone-fibre, the disposition of which in the outer nuclear layer has been already described. In the outer segments of the rods there can be detected, by the aid of a powerful microscope, besides a delicate transverse striation (fig. 52)', corresponding to the superposed disks of which, as above mentioned, they appear to be formed* also fine longitudinal markings which are due to slight linear grooves by which they are marked in their whole extent. The ends of the segments are rounded and project into the pigmentary layer, The purplish-red colour of the retina before mentioned (p. 35), resides entirely in the outer segments of the rods (Boll, Kiihne). A few of the rods are, however, at least in some animals, of a green colour. The outer segments of the cones taper gradually to a blunt point, and do not exhibit49 EODS AND CONES OF THE RETINA. superficial groovings, but the transverse markings are somewhat more evident than in the rods (figs. 52, 54). There is a delicate covering of neurokeratin investing the outer segments of both rods and cones, and this is somewhat more pronounced on the cones, so that a post-mortem separation into disks does not take place so readily as in the rods. From their behaviour to staining reagents and the readiness with which they become altered after removal from the body, it has been conjectured that the outer segment contains materials similar in chemical nature to those com- posing the myelin of the medullary sheath of nerve-fibres. In the inner segments, the proportion which the fibrillated part bears to the homogeneous basal part differs in the rods and cones. In the rods the fibrils usually occupy only the outer third of the inner segment (fig. 52), ceasing abruptly at its junction with the middle third ; in the cones, on the other hand, they occupy about the outer two-thirds of the segment, only the part nearest the membrana limitans remaining free from fibrils. The fibrils in question are for the most part straight and parallel, and strongly refracting. Sometimes, in the cones, instead of this outer part of the inner segment being fibrillated, it appears Fig. 57.—Pigmented epithelium op the human retina (Max Schultze). Highly magnified. «, cells seen from the outer surface with clear lines of intercellular substance between ; b, two cells seen in profile with fine offsets extending inwards ; c, a cell still in connection with the outer ends of the rods. homogeneous, but is nevertheless well marked oft from the inner part by its strong refractivity. This condition of a part of the inner segment of the cones is much better marked in other mammals and in the lower vertebrata, where there occurs a distinct strongly refracting body, situated in the middle or outer part of the segment, and known from its shape as the •• ellipsoid," a name which is also extended to include the fibrillated part of the cone in the human retina. In reptiles an oval body, coloured red by iodine, takes the place of the ellipsoid (Merkel). In lower vertebrata, as well as in most other mammals, the fibrils are absent from the inner segments of the rods also, a peculiar, strongly refracting, lenticular body (•' rod-ellipsoid ") being met with at their outer part, corresponding to the ellipsoid of the cones. Further, in birds, reptiles, and amphibia, in ganoid fishes and in marsupials (but not in other mammals), there is found in the extreme outer part of the inner segment of each cone a minute globular body, apparently of a fatty nature, which in some is clear and colour- Less, but in many cones is brightly coloured of a tint varying in different cones from red to green—red and yellow being the most common. Blue and violet are not met with, but by the action of iodine the colours of all become changed to blue. Sometimes the whole inner segment is found to be slightly tinted of the same colour as the " oil-globule." In birds there are two kinds of cone : in the one kind, the cone-fibre passes straight down to the outer molecular layer ; in the second kind, obliquely. In all vertebrates below mammals, double- or twin-cones are here and there met with ; these usually have, the one a straight the other an oblique cone-fibre. Numerous other differences and peculiarities are found in animals : thus in birds and reptiles the cones are more numerous than the rods ; in many reptiles lizard) only cones are met with ; while in some fishes (sharks and rays), in most nocturnal mammals, and in the owl, the cones are either altogether absent or are but few and rudi- mentary (M. Schultze). This statement has, however, been denied by W. Krause so_ far as nocturnal mammals are concerned. In the size of the elements there is also much variation : the rods being very large in amphibia, and especially long in fishes. In the frog there are three vou nr., pt. 3. ETHE EYE. 50 kinds of rods, one kind having a long outer segment of the usual red colour (when not exposed to light), whilst in the others the inner segment is lengthened and either fine or of the usual thickness, whilst the outer segment is short and of a green colour. The rod-fibre is straight in the red variety and in those of the green kind with the larger inner segments, but oblique in the green rods, with finer inner segments. In the frog the cones were observed by Engelmann to shorten on exposure to light and to lengthen in the dark (figs. 65, C(i). This change occurs through the nervous system for it will take place equally well if the head of the animal be kept in the dark and only the skin of the trunk and limbs exposed to the action of light. 8. The pigmentary layer.—This layer, which bounds the retina externally, and was formerly described with the choroid coat, consists of a single stratum of hexagonal epithelium cells separated from one another by a perceptible amount of clear intercellular substance (fig. 57). The outer surface of each cell—that which is turned towards the choroid—is smooth and flattened, or slightly convex, and the part of the cell near this surface is devoid of pigment, and contains the nucleus (figs. 55, 56) ; the inner boundary, on the other hand, is not well marked, for the substance of the cell, which here is loaded with pigment, is prolonged into fine, straight, filamentous processes (fig. 57, b), which extend for a certain distance between and amongst the outer segments of the rods and cones—indeed the outer parts of the rods may be said to be altogether imbedded in the pigment- cells (c). The pigment-cells are not everywhere quite regularly hexagonal, but here and there cells are found, singly or in patches, which are larger or smaller than the rest, and of a more rounded or of an irregularly angular shape. The pigment granules, which are in the form of minute crystals, are placed for the most part, both in the cells and cell-processes, with their long axes at right angles to the surface of the retina. The distribution of the pigment granules within the cells varies during life and immediately after removal of the eye according as the retina has been shaded from the light or exposed to its influence. In the former case the pigment is mainly accumulated in the body of the cell (or at least its inner zone), and is withdrawn to a great extent from between the rods ; but after exposure to light, a large amount of pigment is found between the rods, and some of the granules may even extend as far as the external limiting membrane (fig. 56). This has the effect of causing the pigmentary layer to adhere more firmly to the rest of the retina than when the pigment granules are accumu- lated in the body of the pigment-cell. The pigment appears to have inter aliis the function of renewing the colour (visual purple) of the outer segments of the rods after these have become bleached from exposure to the light. This renewal of the colour will take place for a short time after the death of the animal, or the excision of the eye (Kiihne). In some animals, e.g., frog, coloured oil-droplets and particles of a highly refracting myelin-like substance (myeloid granules, Kiihne) occur in the non- pigmented portion of the cells, which are further covered next to the choroid by a clear homogeneous cuticular layer. The intervals between the rods and cones are only partially filled by the pro- cesses of the hexagonal pigment-cells ; the remaining part appears to be occupied by a clear substance, which, according to Henle and H. Midler, is of a soft elastic consistence during life and in the fresh condition, but soon liquefies after death ; but according to Schwalbe, is normally liquid. In the embryo, between the hexagonal pigment and the remainder of the retina, there is a distinct cleft filled with fluid (remains of cavity of primary optic vesicle), homologous with the ventricular cavities of the brain, with which it is originally in continuity. The sustentacular tissue of the retina: Miillerian or radial fibres.—51 PIGMENTARY LAYER OF THE RETINA. 111 addition to the eleoients which belong specially to the layers above described, there are certain other structures which are common to nearly all the layers, passino- through the thickness of the retina from the inner almost to the outer surface, and, although not actually of the nature of connective tissue serving the same kind of purpose, namely to bind together and support the more delicate nervous structures of the membrane. These sustentacula? fibres or fibres of Miiller (figs. 48, 58), commence at the inner surface of the retina by a broad conical hollow base or foot, which may be forked (fig. 58), and often contains a spheroidal body, staining with hematoxylin (pseudo-nucleus). The bases ot Fjg, 58.—A FIBRE OF MULLEB. FROM THE UOg's RETINA, SHOWN by golgi's method. (R. y Cajal.) Highly magnified. 1, nerve-fibre layer; 2, ganglionic layer ; 3, inner molecular layer; 4, inner nuclear layer ; 5, outer molecular layer ; 6, outer nuclear layer ; m.l.e., membrana liuiitans externa; m.l.i., mem- brana limitans interna ; b. nucleus of the fibre ; a, process extend- ing from nucleated part into inner molecular layer. adjoining fibres are united together at their edges (fig. 59), so as to give, in vertical sections of the retina, the appearance of a distinct boundary line (fig. 48) ; this has been named membrana limitans interna, but, as may be inferred from the above description, it is in no way a continuous or inde- pendent membrane. The Miillcrian fibres pass through the nerve- and ganglionic layers, either with a smooth contour, or with but two or three well-marked lateral projections from which fine lamellar processes extend amongst the elements of those layers: gradually diminishing in size they then traverse the inner molecular layer. In the mammalian retina the fibres may be marked by slight projections in passing- through this layer. In the inner nuclear layer they as-ain sive off delicate flattened processes from their sides, which pass round the inner granules and serve to support them. Moreover, each Miilleriaii fibre is here characterised by the presence of a clear oval or elliptical nucleus (already mentioned in the description of the inner nuclear layer), con- taining a nucleolus, and situated at one side of, and in close adherence to the fibre to which it belongs (fig. 58, b). On reaching the outer nuclear layer (after passing through the outer molecular) the fibres of Miiller break up into fibrils and thin lamellae, and in this form they pass outwards through the layer, between the outer granules and the rod- and cone-fibres, enclosing these structures, filling up the intervals between the granules and forming partial sheaths for them. At the level of the bases or central ends of the cones and rods, the numerous offsets terminate along a definite line which marks the boundary between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones, and has been termed membrana limitans externa. This also, like the m. 1. 'interna, is in no way a continuous membrane, nor is it isolable from the Mullerian fibres ; indeed, numerous fine fibrillar offsets of these pass a short distance beyond the so-called limiting membrane, and closely invest the bases of the inner segments of the rods and cones. The Mullerian fibres exhibit a fine striation. They swell up and become52 THE EYE. indistinct on treatment with acetic acid and dilute alkalies, but much more slowly than connective tissue fibrils 5 moreover, they are not dissolved by boiling in water. They are much less developed in the central and posterior part of the retina than in the peripheral and anterior part 5 towards the ora serrata they are very distinct and closely set. big. 09.—Interna... limiting membrane of the ret.na treated with silver nitrate, showing THE OUTLINES OF THE BASES OF THE Mi/LLERIAN FIBRES. (KetzillS.) At the lower part of the figure some of these fibres are seen separated. Structure of the macula lutea and fovea centralis (fig. GO). The peculiarities in structure which these present have partly been* incidentally noticed in the preceding description of the retinal layers.' In the fovea no rods are met with, and the cones, especially their inner segments, are much longer and narrower than elsewhere. All the other layers are much thinned, but towards the margin of the fovea they rapidly increase in thickness, and in the rest of the macula lutea most of them are thicker than at any other part of the retina. The ganglionic layer (fig. 60, 2) is especially thickened at the edge of the fovea, the cells being from six to eight deep. They are smaller here than nearer the centre of the fovea. The nerve-fibre layer (1) gradually thins and disappears as a distinct layer near the edge of the fovea as the fibres join the central ends of the ganglion- cells. The opposite end of each ganglion-cell is directed vertically towards the inner nuclear layer. The bipolar inner granules are somewhat obliquely disposed. They are smaller than the outer granules and, as elsewhere, much smaller than the ganglion- cells. At the centre of the fovea they are but thinly scattered, and the inner and outer molecular layers appear to join between them. At the middle of the fovea the retina is very thin, consisting here mainly of the cone-cells {i.e., cones with their nucleated fibres) and pigmentary layer, but a few of the inner granules are also present, aud one or two isolated nerve-cells (perhaps amacrine cells) may also lie seen very near to the centre. According to the figures and description given by M. Schultze the membrana limitans externa is also cupped in at this place, and the cones, both inner and outer segments, are considerably longer than elsewhere, so thatSTRUCTURE OF FOVEA CENTRALIS. 5:3 the line of pigment remains level. Hnlke figured the limitans externa as plane and others (eg Merkel, Enfant, Schwalbe) have formally denied this cupping of the m limitans externa. Undoubtedly, however, it exists and may, as a glance at fig. 60 will render evident, be as deep as that of the limitans interna or true fovea, from which for purposes of description it may be distinguished by the name of fovea externa On the other hand, the inner segments of the cones are not longer here than elsewhere, but are if anything somewhat shorter than at the edge of the fovea, but this is more than compensated for by the greater length of their outer segments. The cones are also more slender in the very middle of the fovea than elsewhere, here measuring not more than 0-002mm., whereas at the edge of the fovea they are double this in diameter. The outer nuclear layer (fig. GO, (!) of the macula lutea is , ,*»tfwflllim\\\\l Fis 60— Diagram of a section tukougu this fovea cemhalis. (The outlines ot tins figure have been traced from a photograph.) Magnified 350 diameters. (From a preparation by C. H. Golding-Bird.) 2 oanMionic layer : 4, inner nuclear; 6, outer nuclear layer, the cone-fibres forming the so-called external fibrous layer; 7, cones; m.l.e., membrana limitans externa; m.li. membrana limitans interna. occupied in the greater part of its thickness by the very long and obliquely disposed cone-fibres ; the nuclei are only two or three deep, and take up a compara- tively small portion of the layer, which was termed the outer fibrous layer by Henle. Over most of the yellow spot the cone-nuclei are placed close up to the limitans externa, but a short distance from the middle of the fovea they begin to be removed from the limitans, and at the centre of the fovea they are close to the outer molecular layer. The cells of the pigmentary layer are smaller but deeper (O'Olmm. x o"oi6mm.) and more strongly pigmented in the macula lutea than in the rest of the retina. The hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour is very thin over the centre of the fovea. The choroid coat is thickened opposite the fovea, the thickening being due to an accumulation of capillary blood-vessels, which here occupy not only their usual position but also that of the layer of larger blood- vessels, and even encroach on the lamina suprachoroidea (Nuel).51 THE EYE. The yellow tint of the macula is absent at the centre of the fovea : it is said to be due to a diffuse colouring matter which is seated in the interstices between the elements of the four or five inner layers. The yellow colour of this part of the retina is peculiar to Primates : in man it develops after birth. A corresponding area is found however in all mammals, characterized by a lack of dark pigment in the pigmentary layer, while in some mammals (Chievitz) as well as in birds, reptiles and amphibia (H. Midler, Hulke, W. Krause), a lovea has been described within such a central area. In some birds two foveas are present, one being near the ora serrata : in some cases several fovea; are found (Chievitz). The central area is always characterized by containing relatively smaller visual cells. The occurrence and relative development of the central area and fovea in vertebrata has been specially investigated by Chievitz (see Bibliography). Structure of the ora serrata and pars ciliaris retina.—At the line of the ora serrata the numerous complex layers of the retina disappear, and in front of it, the retina is represented merely by a single stratum of elongated columnar cells with the pigmentary layer external to it (pars ciliaris retinas). The transition is, in man, somewhat abrupt, all the changes being met within a zone of about <vl mm. in breadth. The layer of rods and cones (fig. 61, g) first disappears as a complete layer, the cones continuing rather further than the rods, but being imperfectly formed and lacking the outer segments ; the nerve- and ganglionic layers, which were already very thin and incomplete, cease altogether at the ora," the inner Fig. 61.—Vertical section through the choroid and retina near the pra serrata (Kblliker). CO DIAMETERS. a, hyaloid membrane ; b, limiting membrane and nervous layer of the retina • c, ganglionic and inner molecular layers with closely set Mtillerian fibres ; d, inner nuclear ; e, outer molecular ■ / outer nuclear layer ; g, columnar layer ; h, pigment ; i, k, choroid ; I, part of one of the ciliary processes ■ m, pars ciliaris of the retina. (The recess show at a' is not constant.) Fig. 62.—A SMALL PORTION OF THE CILIARY PART OF THE RETINA (Kblliker). 350 DIAMETERS. A, human ; B, from the ox ; 1, pigment-cells ; 2, columnar cells. molecular layer (c), which is now largely occupied by Mtillerian fibres, retains its thickness up to a certain point, and then abruptly terminates (a1), as do also the nuclear layers, outer and inner (/, d,). The columnar cells of the pars ciliaris. which appear directly to continue these layers of the retina, are at first of con- siderable length, but become gradually shorter anteriorly ; they are finely striated (fig. 62, 2), and eacfbcell has a clear oval nucleus at the outer part of the cell, near the pigmentary layer. The inner end may be rounded, pointed, square, or' even branched ; the sides of the cells, too, are sometimes uneven. * This double layer of cells is continued as before said over and between the ciliary processes to join the uveal layer upon the posterior surface of the iris (pars iridica retina). On the ciliary processes, and especially their anterior aspect, glandular depressions of the epithelium occur which may be solid or may be provided with a55 VESSELS OF THE RETINA. lumen like true tubular glands (E. T. Collins). The function of these cWatry glands is not certainly known, but they are believed to take part m the secretion of the a(1UVeLeUirof the Retina—A single artery (arteria centralis retince) passes between the bundles of fibres of the optic nerve to the inner surface of the retina at he middle of the papilla optici (fig. 64). It enters the nerve about 15-20 mm. from the globe of the eye, being accompanied by the corresponding vein "and giving off small branches to supply the central^part of the nerve. Emerging at the papilla oculi the vessels divide into branches (fig. 63) usually two one" above, the other below (superior and inferior papillary Z»/*es), each ot these a^ain almost immediately dividing into two branches which arch out towards f -temporal Fig. 63.—Retina as seen with the ophthalmoscope. (Jaeger.) a,a, branches of central artery ; v,v., branches of central vein ; /, fovea. the sides (superior and inferior nasal and temporal Iranches) ; the outer ones are somewhat the larger, and as they bend round the macula lutea they send numerous line branches into it which end, a short distance from the centre of the fovea, m canillarv loops. The macula is also supplied by small vessels which pass directly to it from the papilla. The middle of the fovea centralis has no blood-vessels. 1 he main branches of the vessels pass forwards in the nerve-fibre and ganglionic layers, dividing dichotomously as they proceed, and giving off fine offsets to the substance of the retina, where they form two capillary networks, the one m the nerve- and ganglionic layer, the other in the inner nuclear layer. The capillaries of the former are mainly connected with the arteries, and those of the latter with the veins, the communication between the two networks being effected by vertically and obliquely coursin- capillaries which traverse the inner molecular layer. No vessels penetrate the outer molecular layer (His, Hesse), so that the outer retinal layers are entirely destitute of blood-vessels. The retinal arteries have no anastomoses, thus resembling those of the grey matter of the brain. ; The vascular system of the retina is nowhere in direct communication with the choroidal vessels. Near the entrance of the optic nerve, however, it comes into communication with some offsets from the posterior ciliary in the sclerotic coat, and the choroidal vessels also send branches to join the long-meshed network in the optic56 THE EYE. nerve furnished by the central artery. The arteries of the retina have the usual coats, but the veins resemble capillaries iu structure, their w.11 S2f7 Single layer of endothelial cells without any muscular tissue. Outside theeZ^ial layer is a space perivascular lymphatic space, His) both in the ve n and c pHla s bounded externally by a second endothelial layer (forming the wall Z th* \ T?' space). Outside this again is found, in the cLe of X fe ay £K"if I pecuhar retiform tissue. These perivascular lymphatic spaces' are L coScaSon nasal temporal Scl w n se a v 3 n se 2 ardu, Fig' ^;,7CTS1"i°TI0N THR°UGH THB PLACE 0P ^TRANCE OP THE OPTIC NERVE (B), TOGETHER WITH THK ^crSegeirop the msk (A)> to show the ooaBEsp °™ "arts " ™™ c, d, lines of correspondence ; I, depression in centre of disk ■ r retina • rh r>hn™;H • »; ■>„ ■ and outer parts of the sclerotic coat, . f ci, a ciliary artery cut lo^it dtally fa v Sal arteVS Hi shir riTe^nai' subarach™d roc; i*duraisheath > ^JiSSSSlSSt; p, piai sneatn , «, nerve bundles; se. septa between them. with the lymphatic spaces of the optic nerve, and may be filled by injecting coloured fluid under the sheath which that nerve derives from the pia mater. Other lymph- spaces also become injected by the same process, viz., the interstices between the nerve-bundles which radiate from the papilla optici, the capillary space between the hmitans interna and the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, and finally even the irregular interstice between the pigmentary layer and the layer of rods and cones (Schwalbe). With one or two exceptions (Chelonia, eel) no vertebrates below mammals have blood-vessels in the retina: even in some mammals the distribution is restricted to the posterior part of the eye and to the nerve-fibre layer. Interconnection of the retinal elements.—It is only comparatively recently, by the aid of the method of Ehrlich (staining intra vitam with methyl-blue) and that of Golgi (chromate of silver impregnation), that histologics have been able57 INTERCONNECTION OF RETINAL ELEMENTS. definitely to trace the course and connections of the fibres which pass from and to the several retinal elements. The most fruitful applications of Golgi s method have been made by Ramon y Cajal, following up investigations by Dogiel which were made by Ehrlich's method ; it is the account given by the first-named observer which will here in the main be followed. In the first place, it would appear that there is no direct anatomical continuity between the elements of the several layers, with the exception of some of the nerve-fibres of the first layer and the ganglionic cells immediately outside them. \s with other parts of the nervous system (see Part I. of this volume) the nerve-elements of the retina are anatomically isolated units, merely coming into connection with one another by the interlacement of their arborescent processes. These interlacements occur in two places, viz., in the two molecular layers. In the Fig. 65.—Diagram showing the mode of concatenation of the VISUAL NERVOUS ELEMENTS IN THE VERTEBRATE TYPE. outer molecular layer is found the interlacement by which the rod- and cone-elements are brought into connection with the inner granules. In the inner molecular layer there is a series of interlacements running mainly in planes parallel to the surfaces of the layer, and serving to bring the elements of the inner nuclear layers into connection with those of the gang- lionic layer. Finally, some of the nerve-fibres of the first or innermost layer ramify directly in the mole- cular layer or pass through this layer and ramify amongst the inner granules (figs. 50, 51, G-i). The retina, therefore, is essentially formed by a number of nerve-cell chains, the elements of which are arranged in three series from without in. The first of these is formed by the rod- or cone-element. One end of this element abuts against or is imbedded in a pigment-cell, the other end interlaces by the terminal arborisation of the rod- or cone-fibre within the outer molecular layer, with the peripheral arborisa- tions of the next elements. The latter are the bipolar inner granules (fig. 65, gr.i). These, by the peripheral process just mentioned, interlock with the arborisations of the rod- and cone-fibres and in some animals also send the fibres of Landolt as far as the membrana limitans externa. By their central processes they ramify within the inner molecular layer (m.i) and interlace with the peripheral processes of the ganglion-cells (//). The last-named form the third of the concatenated elements. Their peripheral processes spread out in the inner molecular layer, and are connected with the central processes of the inner granules in the manner just stated. Their central process (n) is an axis-cylinder of one of the fibres of the optic nerve, and its terminal ramification is to be found in the grey matter of the superior corpora quadrigemina, or of the lateral geniculate bodies. The functions of the other cell elements in the retina, such as the horizontal cells, which ramify in the outer molecular layer, and the amacrine-cells of Cajal, which are distributed in the inner molecular layer, are still quite obscure.58 THE EYE. THE VITREOUS BODY. The vitreous body occupies the greater portion of the eyeball. It is quite pellucid m aspect, and of a soft gelatinous consistence. Sub-globular in form, it fills about four-fifths of the ball, and serves as a support for the delicate retina, but it may be readily separated from the latter, except behind, at the entrance Of the optic nerve where the connection is closer, the retinal vessels having here entered it ni foetal hie. At the fore part it is hollowed out {fossa palel/aris) for the reception of the lens and its capsule, to which it is closely adherent. The vitreous humour contains 98'5 % of water. The solids are chiefly salts and extractives, witn a trace of proteid and nucleoalbumin. The surface of the vitreous humour is covered everywhere by a thin glassy membrane, named hyaloid, which lies between it and the retina. In the hist edition Fig. 66.—Horizontal section of thk horse's hardened in chromic acid (after Hannover). EYE The vitreous humour appears concentrically and me- ridionally striated throughout its whole depth. of this work it was stated that, according to the most recent observations, there is no binding membrane between the vitreous humour and the lens capsule, but it has been shown by Anderson Stuart that the older view regarding this subject is more correct, for after removal of the lens within its capsule it is still possible to demon- strate the existence of a delicate glassy mem- brane over the fossa patellars in the front of the vitreous humour, and this can be none other than a continuation of part of the hyaloid membrane. No vessels enter the vitreous humour in the adult, and its nutrition must, therefore, be dependent on the surrounding vascular structures, viz., the retina and the ciliary processes. _ Although in the fresh state apparently structureless, or at least presenting under the microscope but faint traces of fibres and a few cells—the so-called corpuscles of the vitreous Fig. 67.—Transverse section op human ete hardened in chromic acid, showing radial striation of the vitreous body (after Hannover). humour to which we shall immediately recur.—yet in preparations hardened in weak chromic acid, or acted upon in certain other ways, it is possible to make out a more or less distinct lamellation of the vitreous body, especially in its peripheral part, that, namely, nearest the retina ; which part in the human eye has a somewhat firmer rfin-c rr v -u x. co,nsistence than the more central portion. From the appearances Cngs. 66, 67) which haye been obtained by such modes of preparation it has been conjectured by various observers that at least in this part the vitreous substance is divided into com- partments by a number of delicate membranes arranged concentrically and parallel to the ZTlV f ? S ?x™tence of ™ch membranous partitions has not been conclusively demonstrated That however, the vitreous substance does in some way consist of a firmer matenal—either m the shape of continuous membranes, or, as H. Virchow states, in the form ?w -f lBs-enclosm£ in ifcs meshes the more fluid portion, is shown by the fact that it either the whole or a piece of the vitreous humour be thrown upon a filter, a small Proportion- always remains upon the latter ; although by far the larger part drains away, and may be collected as a clear watery fluid.5(.) THIS VITREOUS BODY. In addition to the above-mentioned concentric striatum, a ^^^^f^S observed in sections of vitreous humour made transversely to thea™°*%^U; but whether there is any pre-existent structure to account for it is not known. It is con Livable that these appearances may be merely produced by the manner m which the albuminous substance has undergone coagulation by the reagent employed. iThasalso been shown by fvvanhoff. Younan and A. Stuart that the periphery of the vitreouTnumou^ear the ciliary body, is considerably strengthened and rendered more content by the^rCe of an accumulation of fibres which encircle this part of the V^**£%* of tS Peye, and are believed to aid in supporting the ciliary body and the attachment ot the snsoensory ligament of the lens to that body. The fibrous structure m question appears to be contTnuous with the fibres of the zonula of Zinn (see below), which here strengthen the hyaloid membrane. There further exists, nearly but not quite in the axis of the eye, a definite structure in the shape of a distinct canal, about 2 mm. m diameter, filled with fluid and extending from the papilla optici to the back of the lens-capsule, where it apparently terminates blindly (fig. 69). This is the canalis hyaloideus or canal of Stilling. It is best shown in the fresh eye, and may be also injected by forcino- a coloured solution under the pia-matral sheath of the optic nerve (Schwalbe). The canal widens somewhat towards its posterior part; its wall is composed ot an extremely delicate homogeneous membrane. It represents the place of passage of an offset from the central artery of the retina to the capsule of the lens m the foetus, and from it lymph may pass into the lymphatic spaces of the optic nerve behind, and perhaps in front round the edge of the lens into the canal of Petit. Pig_ 68.—Cells op vitreous humour^ (Schwalbe.) a and d, without vacuoles ; b, c, c, f, g, vacuolated. Scattered about throughout the sub- stance of the vitreous humour are a variable number of corpuscles, for the most part possessed of amoeboid move- ment. Some of these cellsare remarkable for the very large vacuoles which they contain, and which distend the body of the corpuscle, pushing the nucleus to one side ; the cell-processes are often peculiar in possessing numerous little secondary bud-like swellings, or they may present a varicose appearance, like strings of pearls. Suspensory apparatus of the lens.—The hyaloid membrane invests, as before mentioned, the whole of the vitreous humour. As the ora serrata it is apparently split into two layers, one, which must be regarded as the hyaloid membrane proper, being that which has been already mentioned as demonstrable over the anterior surface of the vitreous humour. The other layer into which the hyaloid appears to split adheres to the pars ciliaris retina so closely that when removed it generally shows some of the pigmented cells of that structure adher- ing to its outer surface. It forms a fibrous structure much firmer in consistence than the true hyaloid, and extends over the ciliary body inwards to be attached to the capsule of the lens, for which it forms a suspensory apparatus, known as the zonula of Zinn, or zonula ciliaris (fig. 70, z). Its free part, which stretches from the ciliary body to the lens capsule, is termed the suspensory ligament of IhB lens. The posterior part, or hyaloid proper, is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is readily thrown into folds when detached. Under the microscope it presents no00 THE EYE. appearance ol structure 5 but, flattened against its inner surface, are generally to be seen a number of granular nucleated corpuscles (leucocytes) vluch exhibit am* boid movements. The zonula, on the other hand, is compos d of 0 ThmtZZ CPITHEUUM *~ CONJUNCTIV*^^^ -' MUSCULUS CILIARISs .CAMAUS SCHLEMMII Fig. 69.—Right adult human eye, divided horizontally through the middle (E. A. S.) Magnified 5 times. The line a b passes through the equator, x y through the visual axis of the eye. tains radiating meridional fibres, stiff in appearance but possessed of considerable elasticity ; they commence opposite the ora serrate, and are firmly adherent here to the pars ciharis retinae. Over the ciliary body the adhesion, as just stated, is firm ' to the elevations of that body (ciliary processes), so that when the zonula is torn away(il SUSPENSORY APPARATUS OF LENS. Fig. 70.—Meridional section of the ciliary region. (Fncbs.) Moderately magnified. 0, Cornea ; 8, sclera ; Cfi, choroidea ; R, retina; Pe, its pigmented epithelium ; L, lens ; k, its capsule; o. ora serrata ; 0, pars ciliaris retime, extending over ciliary process, P, and continuous with the pigment- layer on the posterior surface of iris (pars iridica retinae), the two strata of which are accidentally sepa- continuous over rated v,h: pe,PC, pigmented and columnar layers of pars cihans ; z, zonue of Z - ontm uoub ove and between the ciliary processes with the fibres o tbe suspensory hgan etf the ^ " ' J' ™ are attached to the lens capsule; M, meridional ^^^^m^y^^f^S' fibres of the same ; Mu, Mi'.llerian or circular fibres of the same ; 8, canal o Sjhlemiu ns corner e, c. f,f, folds in anterior surface of iris; p, edge of pupil ; sp, sphincter pnpdlse , », anteuoi ciliary artery ; a, circular artery in ciliary body ; gl, glandular depressions m ciliary body.02 THE em:. the pigment is often detached from these processes. Over the intervals between the ciliary processes the zonula is, however, less closely applied to the pars ciliaris retime, so that a series of peaches, narrowing posteriorly and widening anteriorly, where they communicate with the posterior chamber, become left between zonula and ciliary body (recesses of the posterior chamber, Kuhnt). It is into these recesses that the ciliary glands (see p. 55) open. The recesses are occupied by aqueous humour, and traversed by fibres belonging to the zonula of Zinn, which serve to attach the outer surface of that membrane to this portion of the pars ciliaris retinae : they are also partly subdivided by small subsidiary folds of the ciliary body which project into the recesses. Opposite the most prominent part of the ciliary body the zonula gives off bundles of fibres which pass meridionally inwards towards the margin of the lens, some reaching and extending a short distance over its anterior surface, others just reaching its posterior surface, and others again occupying inter- mediate positions at the margin (fig. 70). They are all firmly cemented to the lens- capsule. Those which pass anteriorly originate mainlyfrom the part of the zonula which lies in the intervals between the ciliary processes: they form a radially fibrous mem- Fig. 71.—View from before op the canal of Petit inflated (from Sappey). The anterior parts of the sclerotic, choroid, iris and cornea having been removed, the remaining parts are viewed from before, and the canal of Petit lias been inflated with air through an artificial opening. 1, front of the lens ; 2, vitreous body ; 3, outer border of the canal of Petit; 4, outer part of the zonule of Zinn ; 5, appearance of sacculated dilatations of the canal of Petit. branous layer, but it is not quite complete, for coloured injection can be easily made to pass from the interstices between the lens capsule and the ciliary body into the aqueous humour and vice versa. The clefts in it are fine enough, however, to retain air if blown into this interstice : if this be done after removal of the whole vitreous body (a removal which can be easily effected in an eye which has been left for a day or two at the ordinary atmospheric temperature), the interstices which correspond with the eminences of the ciliary processes are most distended, and the appearance of a sacculated canal (canal of Petit), encircling the lens, is produced as in fig. 71. The canal which is thus artificially produced is bounded behind by the part of the hyaloid membrane which covers the front of the vitreous humour, and in front by the imperfect membrane above alluded to as formed by the fibres of the zonula which are passing to the anterior surface of the lens margin. Since these fibres spring most abundantly from the part of the zonula which is opposite the intervals between the ciliary processes, the membrane is as it were tied down at those intervals and can only be distended between them; hence the sacculated aspect of the so-called canal. Berger states that in the foetus the anterior free surface of the zonula is covered with a layer of endothelial cells which disappears by birth. As just stated, in addition to this anterior membranous prolongation of the zonula, other fibres, more scattered in their disposition, pass at intervals across to the periphery of the lens, some being attached to the extreme edge, others coming into continuity with the posterior capsule, and others again occupying intermediate positions (fig. 70). Those which pass to the posterior surface of the lens capsule and to the extreme edge of the lens are stated to come for the most part from the part of the zonula which overlies and is adherent to the most prominent portion of the ciliary body, and these fibres therefore partially cross in direction those which are coming from the depressions and passing to the anterior surface.63 THE LENS. THE LENS. The lens (Ims crystallma) is a transparent solid body, of a doubly convex shape, with the circumference rounded off. It is completely enclosed by a transparent, hiohly ast c membrane kuo.vn as the capsule of the lens. The anterior surface is in mm .- lil Fic. 72.—1, FRONT VIEW ; 2, hind view ; 3, LATERAL view of the fibrous structure of the adult lens (after Arnold), f a, anterior ; p, posterior pole. The direction of the superficial fibres is indicated by the curved lines. contact with the iris towards the pupil, receding from it slightly at the circumference ; the posterior is embedded in the vitreous humour. Around the circumference is the zonula. The capsule is strongest anteriorly (anterior capsule) and thinnest over the Fig. 73.—Diagram to illustrate the course of the fibres in the fostal crystalline lens. (Allen Thomson.) a, anterior ; p, posterior pole. posterior surface of the lens (posterior capsule). Chemically the lens-capsule yields neither elastin nor gelatin, but appears similar in composition to the sarcolemma of muscle and the membranse propriae of glands. An indistinct fibrous and lamellar structure has been described in it. The convexity of the lens is not alike on the two surfaces, being greater behind ; moreover, the curvature is less at the centre than towards the margin When in its natural position it measures about 8mm. to 9mm. across, and about 4mm. from before backwards. The radius of curvature during life of the anterior surface varies with the condition of accommodation from about&10mm when the eye is accommodated for distant vision, to Gmm. when accommodated to the near point of distinct vision. That of the posterior surface is about Gmm. in distant vision and a little less in near vision. In a fresh lens, divested of its capsule, the outer portion is soft and easily detached ; the succeeding layers are of a firmer consistence ; and in the centre the substance becomes much harder, constituting the so-called " nucleus." On the anterior and posterior surfaces are faint white lines directed from the poles towards the circumference ; these in ther.l THE EYE. adult are somewhat variable and numerous on the surfaces (fig. 72), but in the foetal lens throughout, and towards the centre of the lens in the adult, they are three in number, diverging from each other like rays at equal angles of 120° (fig. I'd). The lines which converge to the opposite poles have an alternating position. ' Thus of those seen on the posterior surface of the foetal lens, one is directed vertically upwards, and the other two downwards and to either side, whereas those on the anterior surface are directed one directly downwards and the other two upwards and to the sides. These lines are the edges of planes or septa within the lens diverging from the axis, and receiving the ends of the lens-fibres, which here abut against one Fig. 74.—Laminated struc- ture OP THK CRYSTAL* LINK LENS, SHOWN AFTER HARDENING IN ALCOHOL (Arnold). | ]. nucleus ; 2, 2, lamellse. another. As Tweedy has pointed out, they may be seen, by the aid of the ophthalmoscope, even during life. The rays seldom meet at a point, but usually along a somewhat irregular area. Structure.—When the lens has been hardened and the capsule removed, a succession of concentric lamina; may be detached from it like the coats from an onion. They are not continuous, but separate into parts opposite the radiating lines above de- scribed (fig. 74). The laminae are composed of long, riband-shaped, microscopic fibres, 0'005mm. broad, which adhere together by their edges, the latter being often finely serrated (fig. 75, a). The serrations of adjacent fibres abut against one another so as to leave as in other epithelial Fig. 75.—Fibres of the crystalline lens. 350 Diameters. A, longitudinal view of the fibres of the lens from the ox showing the serrated edges. B, transverse section of the fibres of the lens from the human eye (from Kolliker). C, longi- tudinal view of a few of the fibres from the equatorial region of the human lens (from Henle). Most of the fibres in C are seen edgeways, and, towards 1, present the swellings and nuclei of the "nuclear zone ;" at 2, the flattened sides of two fibres arc seen. structures fine interfibrillar or intercellular channels for the passage of fluid. The lens-fibres pass in a curved direction from the intersecting planes of the anterior half of the lens to those of the posterior half, or vice versa: in this course no fibre passes from one pole to the other, but those fibres which begin near the pole or centre of one surface, terminate near the marginal part of a plane on the opposite surface, and conversely ; the intervening fibres passing to their corre- sponding places between. The arrangement will be better understood by a reference to fig. 73, where the course of the fibres in the foetal lens is diagrammaticallv indicated. The lens-fibres, as the history of their development shows, are to be looked upon as greatly elongated cells. In the young state each has a clear oval nucleus, but in65 STRUCTURE OF THE LENS. the fully-formed lens the nuclei have disappeared from the fibres which form the more internal parts of the lens, and only remain in the more superficial layers. Fig. 76. — Section through the margin of the lens, SHOWING THE TRANSITION OF THE EPITHELIUM INTO THE LENS-FIBRES (Bilblichin). Here they are found, not quite in the middle of each fibre, but slightly nearer the anterior end, their situation nearly corresponding in adjacent fibres, and they form by their juxtaposition the so-called " nuclear zone " around the lens. The superficial fibres further differ from the more deeply seated ones in being softer and larger, and in possessing a plain, unserrated margin. The extremities of all the fibres are softer and more readily acted on by reagents than the middle parts, and the axial or more internal part of a fibre more so than the external, but the transi- tion is gradual from one to the other, and there is no definite membrane enclosing each fibre. The lens-fibres when cut across are seen to be six-sided prisms (fig. 75 b). By reason of this shape they fit very exactly the one to the other with but little interfibrillar cementing substance between. This is met with in rather larger quantity in the intersecting planes between the ends of the fibres. Thin and Ewart have shown that with certain methods of treatment the superficial lens-fibres show indications of being- composed of a number of regular segments separated by sharply marked lines of inter- segmental substance (Journal of Anatomy, 1876). The capsule of the lens is a transparent structureless membrane ; somewhat brittle and elastic in character, and when ruptured the edges roll outwards. The fore part of the capsule, from about 2*5 mm. from the circumference, where the anterior part of the suspensory liga- ment joins it, is much thicker than the back : at the posterior pole of the lens the capsule is very thin indeed. In the adult, it, like the lens itself, is entirely non-vascular, but in the foetus there is a network of vessels in the superficial part of the capsule, supplied by the terminal branch of the central artery of the retina, which passes from the optic papilla through the canal of Stilling in the vitreous humour to reach the back of the capsule, where it divides into radiating branches a fine network, these turn round the margin of the lens and extend forwards to become continuous with the vessels in the pupillary membrane and iris (fig. 42, p. 34). VuL. III., 1>T. 3. V After formingTI1K EYE. (ill Epithelium of the capsule.—At the back of the lens the fibres are directly in contact with the inner surface of the capsule, but in front they are separated from the latter by a single layer of cubical, polygonal, nucleated cells, which covers the whole anterior surface underneath the capsule. Towards the edge or equator of the lens the appearance and character of these cells undergo a change : they first gradually take on a columnar form, and then, becoming more and more elongated, present every transition to the nucleated lens-fibres of the superficial layers, into which they are directly continuous (see fig. 7G). After death a small quantity of fluid (liquor Morgagni) frequently collects between the back of the lens and the capsule : it appears to be derived from the lens-fibres. There is no epithelium in this situation as in front. Changes in the lens with age.—In the foetus, the lens is nearly spherical (fig. 77, a) : it has a slightly reddish colour, is not perfectly transparent, and is softer and more readily broken down than at a more advanced age. Fig. 77.—Side view op the lens at different ages. a, at birth with the deepest convexity ; b, in adult life with medium convexity ; c, in old age with considerable flattening of the curvatures. In the adult, the anterior surface of the lens is distinctly less convex than the posterior (fig. 77, b); and the substance of the lens is firmer, colourless, and transparent. In old age, it is more flattened on both surfaces (c); it assumes a yellowish or amber tinge, and is apt to lose its transparency and gradually to increase in toughness and specific gravity. AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS CHAMBER. The aqueous humour fills the space in the fore part of the eyeball, between the capsule of the lens with its suspensory ligament and the cornea. The iris, resting in part upon the lens, divides the aqueous chamber partially into two, named respectively the anterior and posterior chambers. This subdivision is incomplete in the adult, but in the foetus before the seventh month it is completed by the mein- brana pupillaris, which, by its union with the margin of the pupil, closes the aperture of communication between the two chambers. The anterior clmmber is limited in front by the cornea and behind by the iris, while opposite the pupil it is bounded by the front of the lens and its capsule. The posterior chamber lies behind the iris. It is continuous through clefts in the anterior part of the suspensory ligament of the lens with the triangular space intervening between the margiu of the lens, the anterior surface of the vitreous humour and the ciliary body (canal of Petit), and it sends prolongations or pouches between the zonula and the pars ciliaris retina?, as has already been described (p. G2). The aqueous humour is a clear watery fluid, in which a few leucocytes can sometimes be found. It is probably secreted mainly by the epithelium of the ciliary body and its glands, and by the epithelium covering the posterior surface of the iris. It finds exit through the clefts of the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, into the spaces of Fontana and thence into the canal of Schlemm and the venous system of that region, and in part into lymph-spaces in the iris, and thence to the perichoroideal lymph-space. 0 Q {I67 RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EYE. RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EYE. Alexander, A., Ueber die LympheapHlaren der Chorioidea, Archiv fur Anatomic u. Phys., Anat. Abt., 1889. , . ■. , ™ • 1 Anderson, R. J., The lens m an albino rat, Monthly Int. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, X ' Angelucci, RicAerche istol. cntr. epitelio retinico del vertebrati, Atti d. R. accad. deiLincei, 1877. Arnstein u. Agabow, Die Innervation des Ciliarkbrpers, Anat. Anzeiger, 1893. Baquis, Elia,' La retina della faina, Anatomiseher Anzeiger, Jahrg. v., 1890. Barabascbew, P., Beitrag zur Anatomie der Linse, Archiv fiir Ophthalmologic, xxxviii., 1892. Barrett, J. W., The distribution of Mood-vessels in the retinas of mammals, Journ. of Physiology, vol. vii., 1886. Bayer, J., Bildliche Darstellung des gesunden und kranken Auges unserer Maustiere, Wien, 1890. Beauregard, Etude da corps vitre, Journal de 1 Anat., 1880. Bebrends, G- J., Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der Entwickelung eles Nervus opticus und des Glas- kbipers bei Saugethieren, Erlangen, 1888. Bergrer, Emile, Anatomie normale et pathologique de I'ceil, Paris. Boden, J. S., and Sprawson, F. C, The pigment cells of the retina, Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, xxxiii. 1892. . Brand, Emil, Die Nervenendigungen in der Hornhaut, Archiv fiir Augenheilkunde, Band xix. 1S88 ; (Translation in Archives of Ophthalmology, New York, vol. xviii.). Canfield, "W. B., Vergl. anatom. Studien ii. d. Accommodations-apparat des Vogelauges, Arch, f. mikr. Anat., xxviii., 1886. Cbievitz, J. H., Entwickelung der Fovea centralis retina-; Die Area centralis retinal, Yerhandlungen der anatom. Gesellschaft auf der 2. u. 3. Versammlungen, Anatom. Anzeiger, ii. and iii. 1888, 1889 ; I'ntcrsuchungen ubcr die Area centralis retime, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtlg. 1889 ; Ueber das Vorkommen der Area centralis retincc in den. vier hbhercn Wirbeltierk/assen, Archiv fur Anatomie und Physiologie, Anatomische Abteilung, 1891 ; Untersuchungen iiber die Entwickelung der Area und Fovea centralis retincc, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtlg. ; Die Area und Fovea centralis retincc beim menschlichen Fcetus, Internationale Monatsschrift fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, Band iv., 1887. _ Ciaccio, G-. "V., Di una novissima e notabileparticolarita di struttura osservata nella cornea di un cavallo, Memorie della r. accademia delle scienze di Bologna, v. 1891. Cirincione, Gr., Sulla struttura delle vie lacrimali dcll'uomo, La riforma medica, vi. 1890. Claeys, Gr., De la rigion ciliaire de la rttine et de la zonule de Zinn, Archives de biologie, tome viii., 1888. Collins, E. T., The glands of the ciliarij body in the human eye. Transactions of the Ophtbal- mological Society of the United Kingdom, London, 1890—91 ; On the development and abnormalities of the zonule of Zinn, R. London Ophth. Hosp. Reports, xiii., 1891. Collins, W. J., The composition of the human lens in health and in cataract, and its bearing upon operations for the latter, Illustrated Medical News, 1889. Colucci, Cesare, Alterazioni nella retina d. rana in .seguito alia recisione del nervo ottico, Riforma medica, 1890. Cuccati, G-., Contributo all' anat. microsc. della retina del bue e del cavallo, Mem. d. r. accad. d. sci. di Bologna, 1886 ; Sur la structure rayonnee du segment exteme des bdtonnets de la retine, Arch. ital. de biol., vii. 1886. Czermak, Wilb., Beitrag zur Kenntniss der sog. cilio-rctinalen Gefasse, Wiener klinische Wochenschrift, 1888. Debierre, Cb., Sur le muscle de Viris de Vhomme, Comptes rendus de la societe de Biologie, v. 1888. Dimmer, E., Die ophthalmoskopischen Lichtreflcxc des Netzhaut nebst Beitragen z. normal. Anat. der Netzhaut, Wien. Dogiel, Alexander, Ueber die nervdsen Elemente in der Netzhaut der Amphibien u. Vogel, Anat. Anzeiger, iii. ; Ueber das Verhalten der nervdsen Elemente in der Retina der Ganoiden, Reptilien, Vogel und Saugethierc, Anatom. Anzeiger, iii., 1888 ; Die Nervenendkorperchen in der Cornea iind Conjunctiva bulbi des Menschen, Archiv fur mikroskopische Anatomie, xxxvii., 1891; Ueber die nervdsen Elemente in der Retina des Menschen, Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, xxxviii., 1891 ; xl., 1892. Dogiel, J., Neue Untersuch. ii. d. pupillenerweiternden Muskeln, <bc, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxvii. 1886 ; Neuroglia der Retina des Menschen, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., 1893. Dostojewsky, A., Ueber d. Bau des Corpus ciliare u. der Iris von Saugethieren, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxviii. 1886. Dubois, Rapbael, et Renaut, J., Sur la continuite xle Vlpithelivm pigmente de la retine avec les segments externes des cdnes et des bdtonnets, et la valeur morphohgique de cettc disposition chez les vertibre's, Comptes rendus hebdom. de l'academie des sciences de Paris, tome cix. 1889. Engelmann, T. W., Ue. Bewegungen der Zapfen u. Pigmcnlzellen unter d. Einfuss des Lichtcs u. des Nervensystems, Pfliiger's Archiv, Bd. xxxv., 1885. Ewing, A. E., Ueber ein Bauverhaltniss des Irisumfanges beim Menschen, Archiv fur Ophthal- mologic, Bd. xxxiv. 1888. Ealcbi, F., Sur Vhistogenese de la rdtine et du nerf optiquc, Archives italiennes de biologic, tome ix. ; Ueber die Ilistogcnese der Retina und des Nervus opticus, Archiv fiir Ophthalm., xxxiv. 1888. F 268 RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EYE. ^SiSSSk ilbCr dk PifjmentW'ind™» ™ ^ ***** *« Frosches, Archiv Fridenberar, Percy Ueber die Sternfgur der KrysUdl-Linse, Strassburg, Inaue Diss 1891 Geberg-, A., Efa iVwwn e2er VogeUrU, Monthly Intern. Journ. of Anat Vol i n^iiTKrW1 ImT'SS! fV^/n*l rH!ne °°l<* Archives «~ 1' hofS ^^ttf 1886 ; ^ u. A^tS. ^ *• **** *" Sd^Hinse, Tagebl. d. fiA^Kiich.Vturf. Me^Sg^SS^ ^ ^ IJcMeS * * WdVme m *» Allgem. Wiener Grossmann, Be Vossification dans Vmil, Archives d'ophthalraologie, tome ix 1889 An. "CIST11' " " ^ ****** und * L A* Anat. retina*hfeTeosfZC ThV^l^'^ ^ ^/iT* T'™ ™ ^ wtfryd^ o/ ,e! 'M V/^osteans, Ihe Annals and Magazine of Natural History, series vi , vol ii 1888 • 0« fZ nature oflzght-perr^ient organs^ and of light- and colour-perception, The R^yal London OpWhalm c Gutmann, G. , Ueber die Lymphbahnen der Cornea, Archiv fur mikroskop Anatomie xxxii 1888 £oh6; f71 P""*^ *• WlK-Bt., Rostock 188? ' 7W •/ i/ ' J lc'strucJure et la significance du corps vitri, Compt. rend, cv 1887 - 5«r I hyafoide et la zone de Zinn, Compt. rend, de la soc. de bioL, 1889. ' Haensell, P., Recherches sur le corps vitre Paris 1886' i^TC^ t ' TIje!'lTte st™.?fre of the cornea, The Microscope, Trenton, 1890. furpS8^ - &^™^ Centralist Bd. xxlTi?; ^9'L^cA>s Methylenblaumethode u. ihre Anwendung auf das Auge, Arch. f. Ophth., Oj^^^^l^T^^ mUSClCS °fmammals and Abst™* of Hunterian lectures, TMo°hnl°n' ?■ Lindsay' Bemerhungen uler die Macula lutea, Archiv fur Angenheilkunde xxv 1892 ; Observations on the Macula lutea, Arch. Ophth., New York 1892 ^-"geiineiikunae, xx\, Keibel Franz, Zur EntwicUung des Glaskorpers, Arch. f. Anat. u'.' Phys., Anatom Abt 1886 An^l^sTS S!Tf' -Ttf Uv6a> OP^halmologen-Congre", Hdd'elberl' mologte, xxxviiifl892 °phthaimolo8le) ^ ^ Altersverdnderungen der Uvea, Archiv fiir Ophthaf- Kobl, C, Rudimcntdre Wirbelthieraugen, Biblioth. Zool 1893 Kollock, The eye of the negro, Trans. Amer. Ophthalm. Assoc.,' 1892. PhySobg^ii.tsSof^*' ' EntwioUun9Krystallvnse, Intern. Monthly Journal of Anatomy and laR?*"186! ftRetina' .InternationaIe Monatsschrift fiir Anatomie. A series of papers (from 1886 onwards) on the comparative structure of the Retina in the vertebrate classes. ? ? ( Kubnt Ueber die Fovea centralis, Sitzungsb. d. ophthalm. Gesellscb., 1881 ; Histoloaische Stuchen an dermenschhehen Netzhaut, Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaft, xxiv ^°9ttehe 187L Be%trafJe sur Anatomie vwn Frosch, Salamander u, Triton, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., vii, Langr, The ciliary processes and the suspensory ligament, Ophthalinolog. Review, December 1888 xi. SSf ' Therefract™ cha™ter of the eyes of mammalia, Ophth. HospXl RepoS; Lange, Otto TopograpMsche Anatomie des menschlichen Orbitalinhalts, Braunschweig, 18S7 Langer, Fritz, Bcitrag zur normalen Anatomie des menschlichen Avges, " 1st man berechtiat dm Lennox R., Beobacht. ii d. Histologic der Netzhaut, &c, Arch. f. Ophthalm.. xxxii. 3886 - Development of the crystalline lens, Brooklyn Medical Journal, vol iii 1889 ' Loewentbal, N Ue d Harder'sche Druse des I gel,, Anat. Anz. vii" 1892 ; Beit,: z. Kcnntn d. Harder sche Druse bei. d. Sduqethieren, Ibid wiwsn, heilWe^v'iiS. EntwicMunV d*v Netzhaut bei der Katze, Zeitschrift fur vergleichende Augen- ^„^althlwS?^•S•,^^e n^ere'^0,l:^S,c7".'^7^e i>W Umerer K«™tniss von dem optischen Ban des iZ l v W"bdtlere' Beltra#ne ™ Psychologie ™* Physiologie der Sinnesorgane, HeVmann von Helm- holtz als Festgruss zu seinem 70. Geburtstage gewidmet, 1891.69 RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EYE. Mayerhausen, Der gefasstose Bezirk der menschlichen Retina, Arch. f. Ophthalm., xxix.; 188Merian, Karl, Vermehe liber die Lymphwege des Auges, Archiv fur Anatomie unci Physiologic Anatomische Abteilung, 1891. ^^-S^^^ffi^'& iS *• ^eoorenen an cinem sokematisoken CeJ&am e?6 to oorn* rt <fc la sclirotique, Revue generate d'ophthalmologie ann6e van 1889. Michel J Cfe&er «Ke -1 usstrahlungsweise der Opticusfasern, Ae.t Lud wig-Festschrift, 1874. Morf, SsSgw 5ei«r. sur £eAre ran derc Abfltmwegen der vordcren Augenkammcr, Dissert. ^otatefiJeo^rc^ «ir iW. Aubmum Tana*, aampar* tfe Z'apjW moteur de V.aU, Arch. ^MuSvt jtmes!6^ ^ The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, 189Nicati W. Swr la disposition et le fonctionnement normal et pathologique d'unv&ritable appareil alamhdahr dans I'ceil des mammifercs, Comptes rendus hebdom. de l'Academie des sciences, tome • 1889 • Note sur la dispositioi et le fonctionnement normal d'un appareil glandulaire dans I ml des mainmiferes, Recueil d'ophthalmologie, 1889 ; Physiol, et pathol. de la glande des procescihaires, Compt 3d 1. soc. de biol., 1889 ; La glande de Vhnmeur aqueuse, glande des prods eiliaires ou glande woie, Archives d'ophthalmologie, tome x. 1890. , •„ „ i oqa . t)p In Nuel J P . Be Vendothelium dela chambre anterieure, Archives d ophthalmologic, x., 1390, vt la vascularization de la choroide et ck la nutrition de la retine principalement au niveau de la fovea centralis. Archives d'ophthalmologie, xii. 1892. _ . Nuel, J. P., et Cornil, P., De Vendothelium de la chambre anUrieure de I'ceil, particulierement de celui de la co'rnee, Archives de Biologie, tome x. 1890. n Qa« Paget, Stephen, Congenital pigmentation of the sclerotic, Brit. Med. Journ., 188/. Peltesohn, N., Zur Morphologic der Papilla optica, Centralblatt tiir praktische Augenheilkunde, *i 1888 * " 'Pollock, C. P., The normal and pathological histology of the human eye and eyelids, L°np°rn<ib1sting, A., Ein Beitrag zurfeineren Anatomie des Lides u. der Conjunctiva des Menschenu. des Aifen Zeitschr f vereleich. Augenheilkunde, iv. 1886. Ramon y Cajal, S., Sur la morphologic et les connexions des dements de la retine des oiseaux, Anatomische Anzeiger, Jahrg. iv. 1889 ; Estruclnra de la retime de las aves Revista trimestral de Histologia, &c, ano i. ; La retina de los batrachios y reptiles, Trabajos del laboratory hstol. de Barcelona 1891- La retina de los Tcledsteos, &c, Madrid, 1892; La retine des verUbres, La Cellule, ix., 1893 [contains a general account of the whole subject, including the authors previous °bSBVampnoldi, R., Sidl'anatomia delta regione interna della retina dei mammiferi, Annali di ottal- mologia, xvii. 1888. Ranvier, Traite technique d'histologie, 1889. q„„;a+,S Retterer, Ed., Note sur la structure de I'iris chez les mammifbres, Comptes rendus de la Societt de Rieke' A?,6 ^eber^Formen und Entivickelung der Pigmentzellen der Chorioidea, Archiv fur 0phSttt S^'Jtedfa Stdbchenschieht der Vogel, Internationale Monatsschrift fur Anatomie imd Physiologic viii. 1891 ; Zur Histologic der Zapfen der Fischretma, Internationale Monatsschntt ^^SSS^SS^^S^^ Vangle de la chambre anUrieure et du canal dc Scldemm, Paris, 1892 ; and Arch, d'ophthalm., xiii., 1893. Rudloff, P., Ueber eine EigenthlimlichJceit der aussercn Kbrner, Arch, f. Anat. u. Buys., Anat. AbtRumscnewitsch, Conrad, Ueber die Anastomosen der M^ Oif^dBKindt ^^ Opticus und der Retina, Klinische Monatsblatter fur Augenheilkunde, Jahrg. xxvn. 1889 Zur Morphograpkie der Papilla nervi optici, Centralblatt fur praktische Augenheilkunde, ^«89. Samuelsohn, Zwr Topographic d. Faserverlaufs im menschlichen Sehnerven, Centralbl. i. d. medSaIdemann,18E80; Beitrage zur Anatomic der Thrdnendrilse, Berichte der naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Freiburg i. B., Band iii. 1888. Schaper, A., Zur Histologic der menschlichen Retina, A. f. mikr. Anat., BelL Mi., lead. Scherl, J., £Ai«ers. m. cZ. 7Jiryme«« cfes Auges, Arch. f. Ophth Bd. xxx.x., 1893. Schiefferdecker, P., Studien zur vergleichenden Histologic der Retina, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Bd'sXchloesser,6'^&er die Lymphbahnen der Linsc, Mlinchener medicinische Wochenschrift, Jahrg. XXXSchoe8n9,' Zonula u. Grenzhaut des Glaskorpers, Arch. f. Ophth., xxxiii. 1886 ; Die Konhavitat des vorderen Zonablattes nach vorn, Archiv fiir Augenheilkunde, Band xxi. 188.)-JO. Schwalbe, Or., Lehrbuch der Anatomie der Sinnesorgane, Erlangen, 188/. Smith, Priestley, On the size of the cornea in relation to age, sex, refraction and pi imary gloMcZm 'lh* Lancet, 1889, also Brit. Med. Journ., 1889 ; On the escape of fluid from the aqueous and vitreous chambers, Ophth. Review, 1888.'° RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EYE. • fS^F*' Schnittc durch die normale Netzhaut, Verhandlungen deranatom. Gesellschaft, Anat. Anz., 189ftaderini' Carl°' Ueb6V ^ Abjlu**we,JC de« mmor aVu™g> Arcbiv fur Ophthalmologic xxxvii., Anatomlea^Jan.llxSw, * CarUWeuIa lacrVmalil1 deg Menschen, Archiv fur mikroskopische Wtobu?g,,SSPf883^'6^r dk NcUhaut' Sitzu"K8beri^te der physikalisch-mcdicin. Gesellschaft zu i ftr^Un' ' i^f* Uqwrwmm pectinatum unci die Endigung der Mcmbrana Descemeti, Arohivf. Ophthalmologie Band xxxiii 1888 ; Die Lymphbahnen der Hovnhaut, Archiv fur Anatomic Sd fttW f- Ophthalm. Bd xxxv 1889 Glcichgewicht der Gcwebs- u. FlUssigkeitsspanungen im Auge, Ibid. , Stuart, T. P. Anderson On a membrane lining the fossa patellars of the corpus vitreum Proceedings ot the lloyal Society, xhx., 1891 ; On the connexion between the suspenslry ligament of the crystalline lens and the lens capsule, Proceedings of the Royal Society, xlix 1891 ■ A mode of demonstrating the gross structure of the eye-ball, Journal of Anat. and Physiol 1891 Tartuferi, F., SulV anatomia dclla retina, Archivio per le scienze mediche,'anno'xi., 1887; bull anatomia Mia retina, Internationale Monatssehrift fur Anatomie und Physiolo^ie Bandiv 1887 : Sulla, strata dei granuli interni della retina, Giornale delta r. accademia di medicina di'Torino' Topolanski, A., Ueber den Bciu der Zonula und Umgebung neb,t Bemerkungen ilber das albnwtische Augc, Archiv fur Ophthalmologic, xxxvii., 1891. lagi7^6' Alexander' Zur Entwickelung des Pigmentcpithels der Retina, Inaug.-Diss., Dorpat, yirich, Richard Neue Untersuchungen ubcr die Lymphstromung im Auge, Archiv fur Au*en- heilkunde, Band xx., 1889. ° Virchow, Hans, Ueber d. Glaskbrpergewebe u. s. w., Ber. der ophthalm. Gesellschaft, 1885 ; Ue. d. Form u. Fallen des Corpus cihare, Morph. Jahbr., xi., 1885 ; Ue. d. verschiedenen Forrnen d. vlrtT^ { M'\ ' trn ■ i, Awt' U^h^-' ?rhyS- Abth- 1885 ' Ueber Augengefdsse der Carnivoren, Verhandl. der physiol. Gesellschaft zu Berlin, Jahrg. 1887. ir y?11' Ada™> Ueher die Fntwickelung der Membrana vasculosa retince, Festschrift fur A v Koeliiker, gewidmet vom anat. Institut zu Wiirzburg, 1892. Vossius, Em Fall von bddenseitigen centralen Skotom, etc., Arch. f. Ophthal xxviii 1883 Tool?*1**' Anatomie der Fintrittsstclle der Sehnerven, Miinchener medicinische Wochenschrift n iTe,rtlfim' Ueber die ZM der SehMeiten im mittlercn Telle der Netzhaut, Archiv fur Ophthalmology, Bd. xxxm., 1888. Wicherkiewicz, B., Beitrage zur Kenntniss der persistierenden PupiUarmembran, Archiv fur Ophthalmologic, Band xxxiv., 1888. Wurding-er, Ue. d. vergl. Anatomie des Ciliarmuskels, Zeitschr. f. vergl. Augenheilkunde 1886 Zaluskowski, K., Bemerkungen iiber den Bau der Bindchaxit, Archiv fur mikroskopische anatomie, Band xxx. 1 Ziem, Ueber das Schioellgewebe des Auges, Archiv fur pathologische Anatomie, 1891. / rTHE EAR. 71 THE EAR. The organ of hearing is divisible into three parts: the external ear (fig. 78, 1, 2), the tympanum or middle ear (3), and the labyrinth or internal ear (G). The Fig. 78.—Diagrammatic vikw from BEFORE OF THE PARTS COMPOSING THE ORGAN OF HEARING OF THE left side (after Arnold). The temporal bone of the left side, with the accompanying soft parts, has been detached from the head, and a section has been carried obliquely through it so as to remove the front of the meatus externus, half the tympanic membrane, and the upper and anterior wall of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. The meatus internus has also been opened, and the bony labyrinth exposed by the removal of the surrounding parts of the petrous bone. 1, the pinna and lobule ; 2 to 2', meatus externus ; 2', membrana tympani; 3, cavity of the tympanum ; above 3, the chain of small bones; 3', opening into the mastoid cells ; 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, meatus intemus, containing _ the facial (uppermost) and auditory nerves ; 6, placed on the vestibule of the labyrinth above the fenestra ovalis ; a, apex of the petrous bone ; issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen b, internal carotid artery ; c, styloid process ; d, facial nerve e, mastoid process ; /, squamous part of the bone. first two of these are to be considered as accessories to the third, which is the portion of the organ to which the fibres of the eighth or auditory nerve are distributed. THE EXTERNAL EAR. In the external ear are included the pinna—the part of the outer ear which projects from the side of the head—and the meatus or passage which leads thence to the tympanum, and which is closed at its inner extremity by a membrane inter- posed between it and the middle ear. THE PINNA. The general form of the pinna or auricle, as seen from the outside, is concave, to fit it for collecting and concentrating the undulations of sound, but it is thrown into various elevations and hollows, to which distinct names have been given (fio- 79). The largest and deepest concavity is called the concha ; it surrounds the entrance to the meatus, and is interrupted at its upper and anterior part by a ridge, which is the beginning of the helix. In front of the concha, and projecting back- wards over the meatus, is a conical prominence, the tragus (fig. 79), covered usually with hairs. Its upper part sometimes forms a rounded prominence (tuber- culum supratragicum, His). Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is another smaller elevation, the antUragus. Below the antitragns, and forming the lower end of the auricle, is the lobule, which is devoid of the firmness and elasticity that characterise the rest of the pinna. The thinner and larger portion of73 THE BAR. the pinna is bounded by a prominent and incurved margin, the Mix which springing above and rather within the tragus, from the hollow of the'concha' surrounds the upper and posterior margin of the auricle, and gradually loses itself m the back part of the lobule. Within the helix is" another curved ridge the mthelu, which, beginning below at the antitragus, sweeps round the hollow of the ooncha. Ion,,,,),- the posterior boundary of that concavity, diverging above it into two ridges. Between the helix and the anthelix is a narrow curved groove the fossa of the helix (fossa scaphoidea) ; and in the fork of the antheliv is a somewhat triangular depression, the fossa of the anthelix (fossa triangularis) ear-point (when present) helix anthelix crus anthelicis sup. Jtelix fossa triangularis crus anthelicis inf. tragus antitragus incisura intertragica lohuhts Fig. 79.— Outer surface of the right auricle. (After Arnold.) projections are occasionally observed m the human subject at the margin of the helix. One of these to which Darwin's attention was drawn by Mr. Woolner, the sculptor, is of interest as representing the much more distinct pointed extremity met with in the expanded ears of quadrupeds (Darwin, "The Descent of Man "). The point in question is represented in the sketch given m fig. 79 B. It is constant in the embryo of about the 6th month where it presents a relative extent of development which is permanent in certain monkeys (Schwalbe). Considerable variation is met with in the size and shape of the pinna,1 in its amount of projection from the side of the head, in the extent of folding which it exhibits, and in the size or the lobule, and this is not only in individuals of different races, but even in those belonging to the same family. Attempts have been made to use these variations as a basis of classification m criminal anthropology, but with results of very doubtful value. The lobule is usually regarded as a human characteristic, but it is sometimes found fairly well developed m anthropoids, and is often very little developed in man. Structure.—The pinna consists mainly of yellow fibro-cartilage and integument, with a certain amount of adipose tissue. It has several ligaments and small muscles of minor importance. The shin covering it is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, especially on the concave aspect, and is covered with hairs which are provided with large sebaceous follicles. It also contains sweat glands on the convex aspect, but few or none on 1 T/T x^lOOX °f tlanSVerSe to ihe lonSitutunal measurement of the pinna is known as the ear- index —_ J and is employed in anthropometry.73 STRUCTURE OF THE PINNA. the concave side Iu the external auditory meatus these reappear in a modified form as the ceruminous glands. The hairs of the pinna are most numerous and louo-est on the tragus and antitragus. The hairs on the margin and convex aspect of the ear are arranged with a general tendency to point towards the tubercle ot Darwin where the converging series may even form a distinct tuft, thus furnishmg an additional argument in favour of the view regarding the meaning of that promi- nence which was taken by Darwin. crus helicis _ helix fossa scaphoidea _J spina helicis ~ anthelix - free edge of tragus J incisura Santorini tragus plate — end of cartilage of meatus 1, Fig. 80.—Ear-cartilage, anterior aspect. (Arnold.) The cartilage (figs. 80 to 82) forms a plate 1 mm. to 3 mm. thick, with all the inequalities already described as apparent on the outer surface of the pinna, and on its antitragus a processus caudalis — - spina helicis incisura Santorini Fig. 81.—Ear-cartilage, lateral aspect. (Schwalbe.) In the natural position of. the parts the corner of the tragus plate ** fits into the angle marked * at the anterior part of the helix. Between a and b, the isthmus separating the auricle-cartilage from the cartilage of the meatus. ^^«- . cranial surface having prominences the reverse of theconcha and the fossa of the helix, while between these is a depression in the situation of the anthelix. The cartilage is not confined to the pinna, but enters likewise into the construction of the outer part of the external auditory canal. When dissected from other structures, it is iTHE RAH. 74 seen to be attached by fibrous tissue to the rough and prominent margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The tubular part is cleft in front between the tragus and fore-part of the helix inwards to the bone, the deficiency being filled with fibrous membrane. The whole cartilage may be looked upon as an elongated plate, the lower part of which is folded round in front so as to bring it nearly into contact with the upper part. There is no cartilage in the lobule except at its base, where the caudal process of the ear-cartilage passes into it: otherwise it contains only fat and tough connective tissue. Behind the prominence of cartilage which forms the antitragus Is a deep notch separating it from the helix. Behind and below this the ear-cartilage forms a tail-like process descending towards the lobule {caudalprocess). At the fore part of the pinna opposite the first bend of the helix, is a small conical projection of the cartilage,' called the spine of the helix, to which the anterior ligament is attached. Behind this process is a short vertical slit in the helix ; and on the surface of the tragus is a similar but somewhat longer fissure. A deep fissure {incisura termmalis, Schwalbe) passes back between the commencement of the helix and the tube of the ear, and eminentiafossce cminentia triangularis scaphce sulcus anthelicix transversus incisura Santorini fossa anthciicis cminentia concha; . sulcus cruris helicis ponticulus (insertion of post-auricular muscle) processus posterior 10. processus caudalis processus triangularis incisura terminalis Fig. 82.—Ear-cartilage, mesial aspkct. (Schwalbe.) another passing outwards and backwards from the deep end of the longitudinal cleft separates the pare forming the tragus from the rest of the tube, so that the tube is continuous with the pinna only by means of a narrow isthmus. Other irregular gaps or fissures partially divide the cartilaginous tube transversely. These deficiencies are termed Jissures of Santorini They are usually two in number. These and the other named recesses and prominences of the ear-cartilage are shown in the accompanying figures, and do not require to be further described. The substance of the cartilage is very pliable, and is covered by a firm fibrous perichondrium. Near its attachment to the bone it becomes hyaline. Ligaments.—Of the ligaments of the pinna, the most important are two, which assist m attaching it to the side of the head. The anterior ligament, broad and strong, extends from the spine of the helix to the root of the zygoma The posterior ligament fixes the back of the auricle (opposite the concha) to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres attach the tragus also to the root of the zygoma. Ligamentous fibres are likewise placed across the nssures and intervals left in the cartilage (intrinsic ligamentsX75 MUSCLES OF THE PINNA. Muscles.-Of the muscles of the pinna, those which are attached by one end to the side of the head, and move the pinna as a whole, have been already described (Vol II) • there remain to be examined several smaller muscles, composed ot thin layers of pale-lookin? fibres, which extend from one part of the pinna to another, and may be named the special muscles of the organ. Six such small muscles are distinguished ; four being placed on the outer and two on the inner or deep surface °f tTh?«wZfer muscle of the helix (fig. 83, 1) is a small bundle of oblique fibres, Win* over, and firmly attached to, that portion of the helix which springs from the bottom of the concha. Like the other of these muscles, its fibres are, in part, attached to the skin. . . , The greater muscle of the helix (2) lies vertically along the anterior margin ot the pinna, By its lower end it is attached to the spine of the helix ; and above, its fibres terminate opposite the point at which the ridge of the helix turns backwards. The anterior auricular muscle is sometimes continued partly into this muscle. Fig. 83, A and B.—Outer and inner surfaces of the right pinna, exposed to show the small hdscles (from Arnold). 1, musculus helicis minor; 2, m. helicis major ; 3, tragicus ; 4, antitragicus ; 5, musculus transversa auriculae ; 6, musculus obliquus auriculae. The muscle of the tragus (3) is a flat bundle of short fibres covering the outer surface of the tragus : its direction is nearly vertical. Occasionally a slender bundle of muscular fibres is seen prolonging this muscle across the cleft in the cartilage between the tragus and fore part of the helix to be attached to the spine of the helix (m. pijramidalis, Jung). Another muscle (dilatator conchce, Theile) of less constant occurrence lies upon the anterior face of the tragus, bridging over the greater fissure of Santorini, which is there present. The muscle of the antitragus (4) is placed obliquely over the antitragus and behind the lower part of the anthelix. It is fixed at one end to the antitragus, from which point its fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the caudate process of the helix, above and behind the lobule. The transverse muscle (5) lies on the inner or cranial surface of the pinna, and consists of radiating fibres which extend from the back of the concha to the promi- nence which corresponds with the groove of the helix. The oblique muscle (Tod) (6) consists of a few fibres stretching from the back of the concha to the convexity directly above it, across the back of the inferior branch of the anthelix, and near the fibres of the transverse muscle. The muscles of the tragus and antitragus tend to contract the entrance to the meatus when stimulated by electricity (Duchenne), the muscles of the helix having a contrary ten- dency They are none of them under the influence of the will, but it is possible they may act slightly in a reflex manner. All the ear-muscles are supplied by the facial nerve.76 THE EAR. Vessels of the pinna (fig. s i).—The auricular branch of the posterior auricular artery, a branch from the external carotid, is distributed chiefly on the mesial surface but some of its branches turn over the folded margin to reach the external surface ot the helix : others pierce the cartilage and ramify on the external surface of the anthel.x, concha and lobule. Besides this artery, the auricle receives the anterior auncular branches from the superficial temporal. These chiefly supply the anterior part of the lobule, the tragus, and the anterior part of the helix. The veins for the most part accompany the arteries. They join the posterior auricular and temporal veins, but some enter the mastoid emissary vein of the lateral sinus (see Vol. II., p. 520). The lymphatics of the pinna pass partly forwards from the concha to join a gland in front of the tragus ; partly downwards and backwards from the upper and posterior part of the pinna towards the mastoid Sands8 ' Pai" downwards from fche lobule fc™ards the parotid lymphatic _ Nerves.—The great auricular nerve, from the cervical plexus, supplies the integument of the greater part of the inner surface of the auricle, and sends small nlaments with the posterior auricular artery to the outer surface of the lobule and attrahens aurem S retrahens aurem retrahens aurem 12 11 10 — 10 1 10 Fig. 84.—Arteries supplying the auricle. (Testut.) ^rl'J^TiT^V 2' Jntfe?al m&x}]1^ ; 3' superficial temporal; 4, transverse facial; 5, middle temporal , 6, orbital branch of temporal; 7, anterior terminal branch ; 8, posterior terminal branch ■ branches01" ^ branches ' 10> Posterior auricular artery ; 11, its mastoid branch ; 12, perforating the part of the ear above it. The auricular branch of the posterior auricular nerve. derived from the facial, after communicating with the auricular Iranch of the pneumogastric, ramifies on the back of the ear, supplying the small muscles. The auriculotemporal branch of the third division of the fifth nerve gives filaments chiefly to the outer surface of the pinna. A branch of the small occipital supplies the upper part of the inner surface. Filaments from the temporal branches of the facial supply the external muscles. THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. The external auditory canal, meatus auditorius extmws (85, 2, 2), extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrane of the tympanum and serves to convey the vibrations of sound to the middle chamber of the ear. The canal is77 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE PINNA. aW 2*5 mm lon<* but the superior and posterior boundaries are considerably IrL thau^he^uferior and anterior. If the part of the conch a winch is bounded anteriorly and externally by the tragus is reckoned in with the canal, Fig. 85.—Diagrammatic view from BEFORE OF THE PAHTS COMPOSING THE ORGAN OF HEARING OF THE leftside. (After Arnold.) The temporal bone of the left side, with the accompanying soft parts, has been detached from the head, and a section has been carried obliquely through it so as to remove the front of the meatus externus, half the tympanic membrane, and the upper and anterior wall of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. The meatus internus has also been opened, and the bony labyrinth exposed by the removal of the surrounding parts of the petrous bone. 1, the pinna and lobe; 2 to 2', meatus externus ; 2', membrana tympani; 3, cavity of the tympanum; above 3, the chain of small bones ; 3', opening into the mastoid cells: 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, meatus internus, containing the facial (uppermost) and auditory nerves; 6. placed on'the vestibule of the labyrinth above the fenestra ovalis • a apex of the petrous bone ; 6, internal carotid artery ; c, styloid process ; d, facial neive issuing from the stylo-inastoid foramen ; e, mastoid process ; /, squamous part of the bone. its length must be given as considerably more (35 mm ). In its inward course it is inclined at first somewhat forwards and very slightly ascends (external portion): it then turns pretty sharply backwards and is nearly horizontal (middle portion), and fossa scaphoidea fossa intercruralis concha proper {upper part) impression of membrana — jlaccida bend of meatus concha proper {lower part} Fig. 86.—Cast of the external auditory meatus (Bezold.) is finally directed slightly forwards and decidedly downwards (internal portion) (fig. 85). The calibre of the passage is smallest in the osseous part of the canal a few millimeters from the membrana tympani : it is also somewhat contracted near the end of the cartilaginous portion. Its form and dimensions have been studied by v. Bezold, chiefly by means of casts of the cavity : the results of the transverse78 THE KALI. measurements at certain points are given in the accompanying diagram \t the inner extremity the tuhe is terminated by the membrana tympani, which" is placed obliquely being inclined downwards, forwards, and towards the median plane • and thus, as shown in fig. 85, the floor of the meatus is longer than its roof 2T ffr Diagram showing thk korji and measurements op suctions across thk external auditory mea- TUS. (Bezold.) Natural size. at commencement of cartilaginous portion ; II., near end of cartilaginous por- tion ,• ///., near beginning of osseous portion ; IV., near end of osseous portion. Structure.—The wallof the meatus is composed partly of cartilage, and partly or bone, and is lined by a prolongation of the skin. The cartilaginous part occupies somewhat less than half the length of the passage It is formed, as already mentioned, by an inflection of the deep part of the cartilage of the pmna, but the cartilage does not form a complete boundary ; the tube being- deficient at the upper and posterior part where it is completed by fibrous membrane The osseous portion is a little longer and on the whole rather narrower than the cartilaginous part. At its inner end is a narrow groove {sulcus tympanicus), which Fig. 87.-View of the lower half of the aurxcle and meatus in the left ear, divided by a nearly horizontal section (after Kiidinger). 1 posterior wall; 2, anterior wall of the cartilaginous meatus ; 3, posterior wall of the bony meatus ■ 4 to 6, membrane of the tympanum, with the handle of the malleus cut; 6, stapes to the S ofV section of the cochlea ; 7, stapedius muscle ; 8, section of facial nerve ; 9, tensor tympani muscle • 10, branches of the auditory nerve to the cochlea, saccule, and utricle, 11, tympani muscle , extends round the sides and floor of the meatus, but is deficient above ; into this the margin of the membrana tympani is inserted. The skin of the meatus is continuous with that covering the pinna, but is very thin m the osseous part, especially at the bottom of the passage. Here it adheres very closely to the periosteum, and has no hairs or glands, but is provided with vascular papilla (ridges, according to Kaufmann). At the end of the tube the skin is prolonged over the surface of the membrana tympani, forming the outer layer of that structure. Towards the outer part of the roof of the osseous portion and throughout the cartilaginous portion the skin possesses fine hairs and sebaceous79 EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. elands • and in the thick subdermic tissue are small oval convoluted tubular glands S a town k v colour, agreeing in form and structure with the sweat glands, but fu part or entirely, and in sufficient number at some parts especially where carti Zeis deficient, to form an almost complete layer in the subcutaneous tissue The cmimen or ear-wax is secreted by these glands {glanduU cerwmnosce), , d their fine ducts may be seen to perforate the skin of the meatus close to or fcto 1 mo 'hs of the hair follicles. According to Schwalbe the fatty part of he ear-wax is formed by the sebaceous glands. This may be partly the case but the secretion of the ceruminous glands is certainly also of a fatty nature (fig. 188). _ Vessels and nerves.-The external auditory meatus is supplied with arteries from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temporal arteries. The principal Fig. 88.—Section op skin of AUDITORY MEATUS, INCLUDING TWO CERUMINOUS GLANDS. (G riiber.) root of hair hair sebaceous hair follicle branches of the arteries course along the upper and back wall of the canal. The veins and lymphatics take the same course on leaving the meatus as do the corre- sponding vessels of the pinna. The nerves are derived from the auriculo- root-sheath temporal branch of the fifth and the auricular branch of the vagus. The latter sup- plies the skin of the osseous part of the canal and that which covers the lower part of the tympanic membrane. State in the infant. —The auditory passage is only in part formed of bone and cartilage in the infant. The osseous part is formed at birth by a small ring of bone (tympanic bone) which is deficient antero- superiorly, where it is completed by uniting with the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and this part of the temporal overhangs the meatus and con- stitutes the chief part of its superior boundary. The floor is mainly formed by fibrous tissue which unites the tympanic ring of bone with the fibro-cartilage of the pinna and external part of the meatus. This is the fibrous tympanic plate of Symington, and into it the tympanic bone gradually grows after birth. This growth takes place chiefly from two points (Zuckerkandl) outwards into the fibrous plate in question and usually in such a manner that a gap is left for some time in the antero-inferior part of the bony meatus which sometimes persists throughout life. The membrane of the drum is more inclined away from the vertical in the foetus and new-born infant than in the adult, being in fact in the same plane as the roof and overlying the fibrous floor of the inner part of the ceruminous glands80 THE EAJ!. meatus. The meatus of the fetus is for the most part closed by apposition of its upper and lower walls, but towards the end of foetal life it becomes occupied with epithelial scales and ear-wax. The cartilage of the external ear and meatus appears to be formed m two or three pieces, the fissures of Santorini marking the junctions of these component portions (Biirkner). THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The tympanum or drum, the middle chamber of the ear, is a narrow irregular cavity in the substance of the temporal bone, placed between the membrane occlud- ing the inner end of the external auditory canal and the outer bony wall of the process Fig. 89.—The eight temporal bone sawn in a coronal plane through the tympanum, vestibule AND AUDITORY MEATUS, THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE SAWN BONE HAVING BEEN TURNED ROUND so as to display both surfaces of the section. Natural size. (Testut.) A, Anterior aspect; B, posterior aspect. labyrinth. Its width between these boundaries varies from about 2 mm. to 4 mm being narrowest opposite the middle of the membrane, and narrower below and in front than above and behind. It measures about 15 mm. from above down and about the same from before back. The vertical measurement includes the so-called recessm epitympanims or audita* ad antrum, which lodges the head of the maUeus and the greater part of the incus : this by Bezold and some other authors is excluded from the tympanum proper, which without it measures about 9 mm. In other words, the entrance to the mastoid antrum and mastoid cells is about 9 mm. above the bottom of the tympanic cavity. The orifice of the Eustachian tube is about 4 mm. above the lowest part of the floor. The tympanum contains a chain of small bones (by means of which the vibra- tions communicated from without to the membrana tvmpani are conveyed across the cavity to the internal ear) and also certain minute muscles and ligaments, which belong to the bones referred to, as well as nerves, some of which end within the cavity, whilst others merely pass through it to other parts. The cavity is otherwise filled with air, for it communicates with the atmosphere through the Eustachian tube, which leads into the pharynx. The bony walls of the cavity are by no meansTHE TYMPANUM. 81 everywhere smooth, bub marked in many situations with depressions, some deeper others shallower, which are lined by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the cavity and also contain air. These depressions are known as the tympanic cells. A roof and floor, an outer and inner wall, and an anterior and posterior boundary are commonly described. The roof of the tympanum is formed by a thin plate of bone {legmen tympani), which may be easily broken through so as to obtain a view of the tympanic cavity from above ; it is situated on the upper anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the angle of union with the squamous portion, the petro- squamous fissure passing just external to it. The tegmen tympani also roofs over the canal of the Eustachian tube and tensor tympani muscle. It is not unfrequently partly deficient (compare Vol. II., p. 42). The floor is narrow, in consequence of the outer and iuuer boundaries being inclined towards each other. It passes without any sharp demarcation into the anterior and posterior boundaries. It is separated by a thin plate of bone, which in rare cases is found to be incomplete, from the lateral part of the jugular fossa, and exhibits a small aperture through which the tympanic nerve reaches the inner wall. The outer wall is formed, to a small extent, by bone, but mainly by the membrane (membrana tympani) already mentioned as closing the inner end of the Fig. 90.—View of the left membrana tympani AND AUDITORY OSSICLES FROM THE INNER SIDE, AND SOMEWHAT FROM ABOVE (E. A. S.). { m, malleus ; i, incus; st, stapes ; py, pyramid from which the tendon of the stapedius muscle is seen emerging ; t t, tendon of tbe tensor tympani cut short near its insertion ; I a, anterior ligament of the malleus : the processus gracilis is concealed by the lower fibres of this ligament; I s, superior ligament of the malleus ; I. i, ligament of tbe incus; ch, chorda tympani nerve passing across the outer wall of the tympanum. external auditory meatus. Immediately in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted, is the inner extremity of the fissure of Glaser (petro-tympanic fissure). Close to the inner end of this fissure is the opening of a small canal {iter chorda anterius), through which the chorda tympani nerve passes out from the tympanum. The margin of the tympanic ring is inter- rupted above by a notch (incisura Eivini) which is bounded in front and behind by prominent angles, the anterior and posterior tympanic spines. The outer wall of the recessus epitympanicus is formed by the thickened part of the squamosal which lies behind the root of the zygoma : it may contain, according to Kirchner, cells communicating with those of the mastoid process. This recess overhangs the inner end of the external auditory meatus. . The membrana tympani is an ellipsoidal disc, the longer axis of which is directed from behind and above, forwards and downwards, and is about 10 mm. m length : the shorter axis being about 9 mm. It is nearly as large at birth as in the adult. It is inserted into the groove already noticed at the end of the meatus externus, and so obliquely that the membrane inclines towards the anterior and lower part of the canal at an angle of about 55° (fig. 102). It is said to be more vertical in musicians and more horizontal in the congenitally deaf. In the foetus and even at or near birth it is as already stated nearly horizontal. The handle of the malleus, VOL. III., PT. 3.82 THE EAB. one of the small bones of the tympanum, descends in contact with the inner suilace of the membrane, covered by mucous membrane, to a little below the centre where it ,s firmly fixed ; and, as this process of the bone is directed inwards the outer surface of the membrane is thereby depressed in a conical form (fig 102)' The membrana tympani is about O'l mm. thick, but at its insertion into the sulcus tympanicus it becomes thickened and firmly attached to the bone by a considerable accumulation of fibres (annulus fibrosus), and this thickened margin is ™ T H 7 16 SphleS °l ^ tympanic ring as two lentous bands which pass to the short process of the malleus, constituting the so-called anterior and postmor tympano-maUeolar folds or ligaments (fig. 92), and forming the lower boundary of he membrana flaccida (see below). Covering it externally is a prolongation of the itL ^ ? f 5 mtemally i8 a Prolongation of the mucous membrane hnrng the cavity of the tympanum 5 and between the two is the proper substance oi the membrane, composed of fibrous tissue. The greater number of the fibres radiate from the attachment of the handle of the malleus (fig. 91), but there are also circular fibres (fig. 90) which are situated within or mesially to the radial and near the circumference of the membrane, form a dense, almost ligamentous thickening. Besides these two sets of fibres there are others met with, especially l&V*^. Pig. 91.—View op the outer surface op the left mem- brana TYMPANI, AFTER REMOVAL OF THE CUTANEOUS LAYER (E. A. S. ) t The handle of the malleus is distinctly seen, and the long process of the incus appears as a faint light band parallel with and a little behind the handle of the malleus. The other light band nearly at right angles to the malleus is caused by the chorda tympani nerve. The notch of Rivinus is seen above the handle of the malleus. in the posterior half of the membrane, which are irregularly disposed and form at places prominent fibrous bands in and upon the mesial surface of the membrane (covered of course by the mucous mem- brane), and even extend here and there across part of the cavity of the tympanum. At the inser- tion of the malleus the membrane, especiallv its mtegumental layer, is thickened. The fibrous tunica propria here becomes con- tinuous with the periosteum of the malleus, but along the line of contact of the bone with the membrane there is generally a streak of cartilage forming the actual uniting tissue : a similar thin layer of cartilage may also be found along the opposite (free) border of the manubrium mallei, and also forming a complete cap to the end of the manubrium. In the thickening of the integumental layer above mentioned vessels and nerves to the membrane are seen in section. The epidermal layer is s ratified, as elsewhere m the external auditory meatus : it is also somewhat thickened along the malleolar line, and here small papillaa of the cutis project into it The radial fibres are not straight, but are slightly bowed outwards, so that between the most depressed point or umbo, and the attached border, the membrane is slightly convex outwardly. This shape is maintained by the annular fibres * At the upper and anterior part, the annular fibres stretch, as just related across the mouth of a small notch in the bony ring to which the membrane is attached (notch of.Rivinus) The notch is occupied by a lax membrane (membrana fiaccida, bhrapnell) (fig. 92), consisting of loose connective tissue, with vessels and nerves and covered by skin and mucous membrane. It occasionally happens that a fissure or perforation is to be detected at this place. The membrane is supplied with blood-vessels, but they are chiefly confined to the83 INNER WALL OF TYMPANUM. skin and mucous membrane covering the surfaces : a lew are, however, found in the prope" fibrous membrane, and form a communication between the two systems on the surf-ices Those of the skin are mostly supplied by a small artery, derived from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary, which passes from above parallel to and along the handle of the malleus. The nerves for the most part accompany the blood-vessels, first supplying these and then forming a plexus both in the cutis and in the mucosa. They are derived, for the upper and greater part of the membrane from the auriculotemporal; for the lowermost part, according to Sappey from the auricular branch of the vagus. For the mucosa they come from the plexus tympanicus. Lymphatic vessels are, according to Kessel, tolerably abundant in all three layers. > The inner wall of the tympanum (fig. 93, A & B), which separates it from the internal ear, is very uneven. Near its upper part is an ovoid, or nearly kidney- membrana iaccida posterior ligament anterior ligament long process of incus -- e nd of manubrium of malleus Fig. 92.—Membrana tympani, as seen with the otoscope. (HeDsman.) shaped ovemng-fenestra ovalis, which leads into the cavity of the vestibule. This openino-, which is elongated from before backwards, with a slight inclination down- wards fn front, is occupied in the recent state by the base of the stapes and the annular ligament connected with that plate of bone. It measures 3 mm by1 \ mm., and lies at the bottom of a depression {fossula ovalis), which is bounded by the bony prominences immediately to be mentioned. Above the fenestra ovahs, and between it and the roof of the tympanum, a ridge indicates the position of the aqueduct of Fallopius (aF), as it passes backwards, containing the facial nerve Be ow is a larger and more rounded elevation, caused by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea, and named the promontory, or tuber cochlea; its surface is marked by grooves, in which lie the nerves of the tympanic plexus. _ Below and behind the promontory, and somewhat hidden by it, is another aperture named fenestra rotunda, 1-5 mm. to 2 mm. in diameter, which lies within a funnel-shaped depression {fossula rotunda). In the macerated and dried bone the fenestra rotunda opens into the scala tympani of the cochlea; but, m the recent state, it is closed by a thin membrane. The membrane closing the fenestra rotunda-s^^an/ membrane of the tympanum (Scarpa)—is rather concave towards the tympanic cavity and convex to the scala tympani, and, like the membrana tympani, is composed of three structures, the middle being fibrous, and the outer and inner derived from the membranes lining the cavities between which it interposed, viz., the tympanum and the cochlea, lire o 284 THE JiAK. membrane is not quite circular but is prolonged superiorly and posteriorly into a somewhat triangular- extension, which lies parallel and close to the lamina spiralis cochlea, and forms an angle with the principal part of the membrane ; the latter looks somewhat backwards and downwards, as well as outwards. Another fossa is seen on the inner wall, behind the promontory and between the iossula ovahs and fossula rotunda, from each of which it is separated by a bony prominence while behind it is the base of the pyramid (see below). This fossa, wraicfi has been named the sinus tympani, is about 4 mm. in diameter and 3 mm antrum mastoideum sii rface for attachment of short process of incus ooc/ilcariform process for tindon of tensor tympani canal for tensor tympani r carotid canal sinus posterior groove for Eusta- chian tube canal for tympanic nerve protub. styloidea Fig. 93 A.-bECTION OP THE RIGHT PETROUS BONE PASSING THROUGH THE MJLI.LE OF THE TTMPAHIO CAVITY SO AS TO EXPOSE THE INNER WALL OF THAT CAVITY AND TO EXHIBIT ITS CONNEXION with neighbouring spaces within the bone. (E. A. S.) About twice the natural size. deep. The ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal lies close to its floor, and it is marked by one or two small apertures for vessels (Steinbriigge). The posterior wall of the tympanum has at its upper part a large opening which leads into a considerable air-space (antrum mastoideum, figs. 93, A and B) behind and above the proper tympanic cavity. From this antrum numerous irregular cavities, the mastoid cells, pass into the substance of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. These cells communicate for the most part freely with one another, and are lined by a thin mucous membrane continuous with that of the tympanum. In the foetus and new-born child the mastoid cells are not developed (corresponding with the slight development of the mastoid process), but the antrum mastoideum is formed at birth. The petroso-squamosal fissure passes through the antrum. The85 THE TYMPANUM. mastoid cells are very variable in development: when large they approach aUjeto the free surface of. the bone, and may come into proximity with the lateial sinus, when small there is a considerable thickness of bone between them and the surface. Sometimes they are undeveloped, and their place is occupied by spongy bony substance (diploe). At the lower margin of the orifice of the antrum is a depressed surface for the attachment of the lower ligament of the incus. Fig 93 B.—Part of the suction shown in fig. 93 A, more magnified, showing the various NAMED PARTS IN AND CONNECTED WITH THE INNER WALL OF THE TYMPANUM. (E. A. b.) 1 tympanic crest ; 2, entrance to mastoid cells ; 3, mastoid antrum ; 4, prominence due to external semicircular canal ; 5, prominence over aqueduct of Fallopius (a bristle, 13,13, has been passed through this canal); 6, fenestra ovalis ; 7, pyramid ; 8, posterior sinus ; 9, sinus tympam ; 10, styloid protu- berance : li.subiculum promontorii ; 12, fenestra rotunda ; U, bristle passed through the canal for the tympanic nerve ; 15, jugular fossa ; 16, tympanic cells ; 17, canal for Eustachian tube ; 18.P™montory, 19 20, 21, grooves for nerves on promontory emerging from the end of the canal for the tympanic nerve, 19 being for the caroticotympanic, 20 for the small deep petrosal, and 21 for the small super- ficial petrosal; 22, trochlear end of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle ; 23, bridge of bone uniting the promontory with the pyramid. Below the orifice of the antrum and behind the fenestra ovalis is a small conical eminence (1 m. to 1*5 m. high), called the pyramid, or eminmtia papillaris (fig. 90, py ; fig. 93, 7). Its apex is pierced by a foramen, through which the tendon of the stapedius muscle emerges. The muscle is contained within a canal86 THE EAR. which when traced back is found to turn downwards in the posterior wall of the tympanum sometimes opening at the base of the cranium by a small aperture just m front of the stylomastoid foramen, and connected at one or two places with the descending part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. A small bony spiculum often connects tbe end of the pyramid with the upper part of the promontory (see fig 93 15 23) Anterior boundary. Canal for the tensor tympani.-The interior extremity of the tympanum is narrowed by the gradual descent of the roof and is continued into the inner orifice of the Eustachian tube (fio- 85)' Above the commencement of this is the small (2 mm. diameter) canal0which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. This canal, which is lined by a fibrous membrane, is about half an inch (12 mm.) long, and it opens immediately in front external pterygoid plate internal pterygoid plate Eustachian cartilage Eustachian cartilage carotid foramen jugular foramen posterior condylar foramen, palate bone nasal fossn; scaphoid fossce foramen ovale foramen laccrum occipital condyle foramen magnum Fig. 94.—Base of the skull, showing the position of the eustachian cartilage. (Modified from Testut.) (E. A. S.) of the fenestra ovalis, surrounded by the expanded and everted end of the cochleariform process, which separates it from the Eustachian canal. The bony septum between the two canals is often incomplete, so that in the macerated bone they may appear as a single large canal partly subdivided by a thin osseous partition. In the recent state the fibrous sheath of the tendon is expanded over the end of the canal, so as to impart to it a conical shape (see fig-. 101, tt). The Eustachian tube (salpinx) (fig. 85, 4) is a canal about 86 mm. (1-5 inches) long and from 2 mm. to 4 or 5 mm. diameter, bounded partly by bone, partly by cartilage and fibrous membrane, which leads from the cavity of the tympanum to the upper part i of the pharynx. From the opening into the tympanum (ostium tympanicum) it is directed forwards and inwards, at an angle of about 45 degrees with the sagittal plane, with an inclination of about 30 degrees downwards from the horizontal; the downward inclination is slightly greater in theTHE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. S7 mrHlfurinoTU Dart than in the osseous. The posterior or osseous division of the tubXnT hSf an inch long, is placed at the angle of junction of the petrous no^n of tt tempos bon&e with the squamous portion It is funne shaped. dimlTshrn- somewhat rapidly in size from behind forwards, to the junction with ^SCus part; here the tube is narrowest (isthmus tula. The carotid canJK mesiaUy to the osseous portion of the tube, and is occasionally found to communicate with it owing to deficiencies in the bony septum between them The mucous membrane lining the osseous portion of the tube is thin and closely attached to the bone except along the floor of the canal, where it is separated from the per teL by a venous plexus. It is lined by ciliated epithelium, and has no glands onenTng into it. The anterior part of the tube, about an inch m length is formed of a triangular piece of elastic fibro-cartilage, the edges of which are shghtly curled round towards each other, leaving an interval at the under and outer side, in which the wall of the canal is completed by dense but pliable fibrous membrane (fascm sat„o- pharyngea), and by a muscular band connected with the tensor palati and termed by pig> 95.—Section across the cartila- ginous PART OP THE EUSTACHIAN tube. (Klidinger.) ], 2, bent cartilaginous plate; 3, muse', dilatator tubae; to the left of 4, part of the attachment of the levator palati muscle ; 5, tissue uniting the tube to the base oE the skull ; 6, and 7, mucous glands ; 8, 10, fat ; 9 to 11, lumen of the tube ; 12, connective tissue on the lateral aspect of the tube. Riidinger the dilatator tubce. The cartilaginous plate is hook-shaped in transverse section (fig. 95), the larger part of the plate being on the mesial side, and only a small part on the lateral border. The cartilage is largest near the ostium pharyngeum, where it measures 12 mm. from above down, and is 7 mm thick. It here occupies the whole mesial wall of the tube, but gradual y diminishes in size as it approaches the bony canal. It is often partially or entirely broken up by fissures, or there may be accessory pieces of cartilage m various situations in the wall of the tube. The cartilaginous part of the tube is trumpet- shaped, being narrow behind, and gradually expanding to a greater width m front (fio- 94) ; the anterior part is compressed from side to side, and is nxed to the inner pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. The anterior opening (oshum pharyngeum) is of a compressed oval, somewhat triangular form, and is placed obliquely at the side and upper part of the pharynx, into which its prominent margin projects behind the lower turbinate process of the nose and above the level of the hard palate (fig. 96). The aperture is bounded above and posteriorly by a projection, which is caused by the end of the curved plate of cartilage (covered of course, by mucous membrane), which separates it behind from a longitudinal depression of the pharyngeal wall, known as the lateral recess of the pharynx or fossa of Rosenmiiller. The projection in question is continued into the salpingo- pharyngeal fold. Below it is limited by a thickening, increased when the levator palati contracts, continued from a fold (salpingopalatine), which also assists in forming the anterior boundary of the orifice. The opening is placedss THE EAR. lively to the palate somewhat lower in the child than in the adult. Through £lV»Y* ° mucouV1,ei'1lbnine °f the Vh™y™ fa contiguous with that which itv ^nPaUU?'Td Underce^. editions air passes into and out of that th L , j glandB open on the iuner surface of the cartilaginous part of the tube; they are most numerous near the pharyngeal orifice. There is also a Fig. 96.-VIEW OF THE RIGHT NASAL FOSSA AS SE*N IN A SECTION THROUGH THE SKULL TAKEN JUST TO THE RIGHT OF THE SEPTUM. (E A S ) to sphenoidal sinus ; 14, pituitary fossa; 15, sphenoidal sinus; 16 hfeEtofaSl17 L ? S^^j^tir^tissue especially in young subjects'aud iiear the Vessels and Nerves.-The of the tube are derived on the one hand from the pharyngeal branch of the external carotid, and on the other from the middb meningeal and vidian branches of the internal maxillary. The nerves arise from tne tympanic plexus and pharyngeal twigs of the vidian nerve. Muscles.—Besides the middle part of the tensor palati muscle, which takes t ie whole lenSfch ^ the lateral plate of the hooked cartilage of the tube (ng. jo;, tne levator palati also has an attachment to the commencement of theTHE AUDITORY OSSICLES. S9 lateral plate, and from the adjacent membranous part of the floor of the tube, narallel to which its fibres course towards their insertion into the soft palate. When the muscle contracts the membranous floor of the tube is tightened, and is also raised near the ostium pharyngeum by the thickening of the muscular fibres which run just below it, and this helps to open the lower orifice during swallowing. Lastlv some muscular bundles, forming the salpingo-pharyngeus of Santonin, arise from' the lower and fore part of the mesial plate of cartilage, and passing down immediately beneath the mucous membrane, join the palato-pharyngeus (Vol. II., p. 308). This muscle tends to drag the mesial plate backwards and downwards, and thus assists in opening the tube during deglutition. The anterior wall of the tympanum, below the orifice of the Eustachian tube, is formed by a bony plate forming part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, which is hollowed out by air-cells, and here separates the tympanic cavity from the vertical part of the carotid canal. Barely there are one or more deficiencies in this wall. _. „ SMALL BONES OF THE EAR.—Three small bones (osstcula audilus) are contained in the upper part of the tympanum : of these, the outermost (malleus) is attached to the membrana tympani ; the innermost (stapes) is fixed m the fenestra ovalis ; and the third (incus), placed between the other two, is connected to them by articular surfaces. They form together an angular and jointed connecting rod between the membrana tympani and the fenestra ovalis. The malleus or hammer-bone (fig. 97), (18 mm. to 19 mm. long, weight 24 milligr.), consists of an upper thicker portion, with a tapering lower portion, and a.r pr.gr. V\o Q7 A —Thf left malleus of the adult viewed from the outer side. Magnified four times. * g ' (After Helmholtz.) c capitulum- a i, grooved articular surface for the incus ; e, its prominent lower margin ; d, cervix, m end of the manubrium ; 6, processus brevis ; pr.gr, processus gracilis, here represented only by a short stump, the rest of the process having been converted into ligament ; a, ridge to which the external ligament is attached. Pig. 97 B.—Left malleus of a child viewed from before. Magnified four times. (E. A. The lettering is the same as in the previous figure. The processus gracilis is here complete, an^le which the manubrium forms with the rest of the bone is seen in this view. S-) The two processes. The upper end is formed by the rounded head (capitulum) (c), on the posterior surface of which is an elliptical depressed surface (a.i) with prominent margins, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and serves for articulation with the incus. The articular surface shows two principal facets, nearly at right angles to one another. They are separated by a constriction and by an obliquely crossing crest or edge. These facets look respectively, the upper and larger one backwards, the lower one inwards ; and each principal facet is subdivided90 THE EAR. by a longitudinal groove into secondary facets. The inferior margin of the articular surface is very prominent opposite the constriction, and forms' here, in fact the lower end of the ridge above mentioned (spur of the malleus). Below the head is a constricted neck (d) ; and beneath this another slight enlargement of the bone to which the processes are attached. The handle {manubrium) (m) the lower tapering point of the malleus, is slightly twisted, and is compressed from before backwards to near its point, where it is flattened laterally. It forms a rounded obtuse angle with the head of the bone (fig. 97 B), and passes downwards with an inclination forwards and inwards, on the inner side of the membrana tympani to which it is closely attached both by its periosteal covering and also by a layer of cartilage extending its whole length, and especially marked at the attachment of the processus brevis. The point of insertion of the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle IS sometimes marked by a slight projection on the inner side of the manubrium near its upper end. The long process (processus gracilis vel Folianus) (fio- 97 B pr gr ) is a very slender spiculum of bone, which in the adult is usually converted except a small stump, into ligamentous tissue, and even where it still exists as bone is often broken off in its removal from the tympanum ; it projects at nearly a right angle from the front of the neck of the malleus, and extends thence obliquely downwards and forwards to the Glaserian fissure. Its end is flattened and expanded, and is connected by ligamentous fibres or bone to the sides of the fissure. In the foetus this process is directly continued into Meckel's cartilage (see Vol. I, Part I, p. 168) The short process (processus brevis vel obtusus) (b) is a low conical eminence situated at the root of the manubrium, beneath the cervix, and projecting outwards towards the upper part of the membrana tympani, to which it is attached. The incus (fig. 98), as its name implies, has been compared to an anvil; but it resembles perhaps more nearly a tooth with two fangs widely separated. It consists „rZ„ jA Mm „ Fig- 9S-—Left ™VS, VIEWED FROM THE INNER SIDE AND SOMEWHAT m from before. Magnified four times. (Gr. D. Thane.) b, body; a m. ridged articular surface for the malleus; pr. br, processus brevis ; I. i, rough surface near its extremity for the attachment of the ligament of the incus ; pr. I, processus longus, terminating below in a small projection which comes off from it at a right angle, and is capped by a convex tubercle, processus lenticularis pr.o *Jy pr. o, for articulation with the stapes. of a body and two processes. The body has a deep saddle-shaped articular surface m front (a.m), which fits over the articular surface on the head of the malleus, and which consists, like that of the malleus, of two chief facets, each subdivided to form two secondary facets. The lower margin of the articulation is excavated to receive the spur-like prominence of the malleus, and in front of this excavation is very prominent, where it also forms a spur, against which that of the malleus catches in inward movements of the manubrium. The shorter process (crus breve) (pr.br.) of the incus projects backwards. Its extremity is tipped with cartilage, and is moveably articulated by ligamentous fibres with the posterior and partly with the outer wall of the tympanum near the entrance to the mastoid cells. The place where the ligamentous fibres are attached to the wall of the tympanum is somewhat depressed, and has a covering of cartilage. The Jong process (crus hngum) (pr.l) tapers rather more gradually, and passes downwards and inwards parallel to the handle of the malleus, and about If mm. mesial to and behind it. At its extremity it is bent inwards at an angle which varies considerably in different bones, and is suddenly narrowed into a short neck ; and upon this is set a flattened tubercle (processus orbicularis seu lenticularis) (pr. o.), tipped with cartilage. This tubercle, which articulates with the head of the stapes, was formerly, under the nameTHE AUDITORY OSSICLES. 91 era, of os orbiculare sen lenticulare, described as a separate bone, which indeed it nriainallv is in the foetus up to the sixth month. The ent h of the short process is about 3 to 3^ mm., of the ong process about 4| mm. The weight of the incus is very nearly the same as that of the malleus (Blake). At the ioints between the incus and malleus on the one hand and the incus and stapesi on rtptJhei^the articular surfaces are tipped with cartilage and enclosed by a synovial membrane. RMmter tscribes both in this jointand in the articulation of the incus with the stapes an Sf^unta^oortiliige which subdivides the joint into two parts ; but according to iSe^ther are synovial joints but are symphyses, the articular cartilages being; united STbrous tSsue. At all events the existence of an particular cartilage at the joint between incus and stapes is doubtful, although most authorities admit its presence at the joint between Z maSeus and incus. Some anatomists describe a synovial joint at the articulation of the short process of the incus with the bone at the entrance to the mastoid cells. The stapes (figs. 99, 100), the third and innermost bone of the ear, is in shape remarkably like a stirrup, and is composed of a head, a base, and two crura I he whole bone measures 3 to 4 mm. in length and about 2} mm. m breadth Its weight is from 2 to 4 milligrams. The head (h) is directed outwards, and has on Its end a slight depression, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the lenticular process of the incus. The base (b) is a plate of bone fitting into pig_ 99._Left stapes, viewed from below. Magnified four times. (E. A. S.) k outer extremity or head of the bone, with a shallow concavity for articulation with the orbicular process of the incus; c, constricted part or cervix. This is not always so well-marked as in the present specimen cr a, anterior cms; cr p, posterior cms ; h, base ; a, arch of. the stapes. The bony groove which bounds the arch is shown in front and below ; above and behind it is concealed from view. the fenestra ovalis, but not quite closely, so that a slight amount of movement is allowed. Its form is irregularly oval, the upper margin being curved, while the lower is nearly straight (fig. 90, st). Its border is encircled by hyaline cartilage, which also covers its vestibular surface. The margin of the fenestra ovalis has also a coverino- 0f the same tissue (Toynbee), and the opposed cartilaginous surfaces are closelv connected by a network of elastic fibres passing between them, and forming an especially dense ligamentous band near the tympanic and vestibular cavities (RudinRer) The crura of the stapes diverge from a constricted part {neck, fio- 99 c) of the bone, situated close to the head, and are attached to the outer surface' of the base near its extremities. The anterior crus (cr. a) is the shorter and strai-hter of the two. The crura, with the base of the stapes, encircle a small triangle or arched space (a), across which in the recent state a thm membrane is stretched. A shallo'w groove runs round the opposed surfaces of the arch, and into this the membrane is received. The formation and morphological relations of the auditory ossicles have already been noticed in the Embryology (Vol. I., p. 167, et Suffice it here to recall the fact that Jhe Scu anVmaUeus^re odginallylaid down as one piece of cartilage, which is continued tw"rds aas Meckel's cartilage" along the first visceral arch and that ^ ossification in cartilage which develops around an artery (stapedial or mandibulai-liaser, SaC£wafoh arises from the internal carotid, and passing into the tympanum through the wdHfto c^id canal, ascends over the promontory and anastomoses with branches of the Jy o-mastoid, -middle meningeal, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. In ™™^™e*J^ artery remains, but it has usually disappeared before birth. In some Insectivora, Rodentia) it persists in the adult. In these cartilaginous foundations of the auditory ossicles the formation of the individual bones occurs m the maimer the separation and articulation between the malleus and incus appears m the thud month of embryonic life; the cartilaginous continuity between the malleus and Meckel s cartilage dSappears somewhat later, and its place is taken partly by ligamentous tissue (forming the92 THE EAR. anterior ligament of the malleus and the accessory mesial hVamenf nt «,« in. . * "»* * ">« «* "on, this the J^TZ bote if SZgZgSl Fig. 100.—Section through- stapes and fenestra ovalis. (Brunner. lenticular process which appears as an epiphysis. The stapes ossifies somewhat later than the other ossicles, and from four centres-one for the head, one for each crus, and one for the base. ligaments.—In the articulations of the small bones of the ear with one another the connection is strengthened by ligamentous fibres. Their attachment to the walls of the tympanum is effected chiefly by the following ligaments, as well as by the reflections of the mucous membrane lining that cavity. 6 The anterior ligament of the malleus (figs. 90, I a, and 101, I. a m) is a comparatively strong and broad band of fibres, which connects the base of the processus gracilis and the anterior part of the malleus above this process with the anterior wall of the tympanum close to the Glaserian fissure. The part of the ligament which passes out of the Glaserian fissure was long thought to be muscular (laxator tympani auct.), but most observers agree in denying theTHE AUDLTORY OSSICLES. 93 l.tx.fn existence of muscular tissue in this situation. Many of the fibres of the anterior ligament take origin from a bony prominence which projects from the margin of the external meatus into the tympanum, and forms the anterior boundary of the notch of Rivinus This prominence is known as the anterior spinous process oi the tympanum (spina tympanies anterior) (fig. 101, sp) to distinguish it from another smaller bony prominence or spine at the posterior extremity of the notch (seep. 81). laeeuorv anterior ligament.—A comparatively stout sheath surrounds the tendon of the tensor tympani as it passes from the end of the cochleariform process to the malleus, and a flatHgamentous hand with a thickened margin (fig. 101, 0, which lies along the anterior border of this sheath, stretching between the anterior wall of the tympanum and the upper Fig. 101.—View of the cavity of the TYMPANUM, OPENED FKOJI ABOVE. (Magnified four times.) (E. A. S.) m, head of the malleus ; sp, spina tympanica anterior ; I. a. m, anterior ligament of the malleus ; l.e.m, external ligament of the malleus ; II, gap between the two ligaments leading to the mem- brana flaccida and notch of Rivinus ; i, body of the incus ; I. i, posterior ligament of the incus ; pr. o, processus orbicularis of the incus seen in the depth of the cavity, articulated with the head of the stapes, st; st', tendon of the stapedius muscle emerging from the pyramid ; ^ tt, tendon of the tensor tympani, emerging , ,. from the conical end of its canal ; I, thickened edge of a flattened band of ligamentous fibres which lies in the fold of the mucous membrane, m.m., and assists in fixing the malleus ; s. I. m, superior ligament oi the malleus, cut short; n, chorda tympani nerve. \ part of the manubrium and neck of the malleus, may be regarded as assisting in the fixation of the malleus anteriorly. Toynbee described the sheath in question as acting as an accessory ligament (tensor ligament). The external ligament of the malleus (fig. 101, l.e.m.), is a fan-shaped ligamentous structure, the fibres of which arise from the margin of the notch of Rivinus, and converge to the short process and adjacent part of the malleus. The posterior bundle of fibres of this ligament, together with the anterior bundle of the anterior ligament are termed by Helmholtz the " axis-ligament of the malleus," since they are attached nearly in the axis of rotation of that bone. « The superior ligament of the malleus (figs. 101, 102, s.l.m.) consists of a small bundle of fibres, which passes downwards and outwards from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus, and serves to check the outward move- ments of the manubrium and membrona tympani. Inferior ligament of the malleus.—A small bundle of ligamentous fibres is occasionally found pa*sino- from near the extremity of the handle of the malleus upwards and backwards behind the long process of the incus, to be attached to the outer wall of the tympanum. This liga- ment assists the external ligament in resisting a too violent action of the tensor tympani muscle, and it serves also to restrict any rotating action which that muscle may tend to exert upon the malleus. The ligament of the incus (figs. 90, 101, U.) extends from near the point of the short crus backwards towards the posterior wall of the tympanum, but some of its fibres spread also outwards and inwards. It is attached below the entrance to the mastoid cells. Muscles.—There are only two well-determined muscles of the tympanum. Sommerring described four, and some authors have mentioned a larger number; but94 THE EAE. their descriptions have not been confirmed by later research. Of the two muscles generally recognised, one is attached to the malleus, and the other to the stapes The tensor tympani is the larger of these muscles. It consists of a tapering fleshy part, about half an inch in length, and a slender tendon. The muscular fibres arise from the cartilaginous end of the Eustachian tube and the adjoining surface of the sphenoid bone, and from the sides of the canal in which the muscle lies and in which it is conducted backwards to the cavity of the tympanum Immediately in front of the fenestra ovalis the tendon of the muscle bends at nearly a right angle over the end of the processus cochleariformis as round a pulley, and, contained in a fibrous sheath, passes outwards, to be inserted into the inner part of e.au.m Fig. 102.—Profile view op the left membrana tympani and auditory ossicles from before and somewhat from above. Magnified four times. (E. A. S.) The anterior half of the membrane has been cut away by an oblique slice, m, head of the malleus ■ sp, spur-like projection of the lower border of its articular surface; pr. br, its short process • pr qr root of processus gracilis, cut; s. I. m, suspensory ligament of the malleus ; I. e. m, its external ligament; 11 tendon of the tensor tympani, cut ; i, incus, its long process ; at, stapes in fenestra ovalis ; e.au.m, external auditory meatus ; p. A, notch of Uivrnus ; m.t, membrana tympani ; u, its most depressed point or umbo • d de- clivity at the extremity of the external meatus ; i.au.m, internal auditory meatus ; a and b its upper and lower divisions for the corresponding parts of the auditory nerve ; n.p, canal for the nerve 'to the ampulla ot the posterior semicircular canal ; s.s.c, ampullary end of the superior canal; p, ampullary opening ot the posterior canal; c, common aperture of the superior and posterior canals ; e.s c ampul- lary, and e s.c, non-ampullary end of the external canal ; s.t.c, scala tympani cochlea; f.r 'fenestra rotunda, closed by its membrane ; a. F, aqueduct of Fallopius. the handle of the malleus, close to its root (figs. 101, 102, ft). The tensor tympani is supplied by a branch of the fifth pair through the otic ganglion. Its nerve is furnished with a small ganglion (Dastre and Morat). The stapedius is a very distinct muscle, but is hidden within the bone, being lodged in a canal in front of the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and in the hollow of the pyramid. The tendon issues from the aperture at the apex of that little elevation (fig. 90), and passing forwards, surrounded by a fibrous sheath, is inserted into the neck of the stapes posteriorly, close to the articulation of that bone with the lenticular process of the incus (figs. 90, 101). A very slender spine of bone has been found occasionally in the tendon of the stapedius in man; and a similar piece of bone, though of a rounder shape, exists constantly in the horse, the ox, and other animals.95 MOVEMENTS Ob1 AUDITORY OSSICLES. Movements of the auditory ossicles.—The malleus and incus move together round an axis extending backwards from the attachment of the malleus by its anterior ligament to the attachment of the short process of the mens posteriorly. _ Ihe handle of the malleus follows all the movements of the membrana tympani, and when the membrane is impelled inwards, the incus, moving inwards along with the malleus pushes the stapes inwards towards the internal ear. In this movement the head of the stapes is slightly raised as well as pressed inwards, and the upper margin of its base moves more than the lower. But the cavity of the inner ear is full of liquid ; and its walls are unyielding, except at the fenestra rotunda ; when, there- fore the stapes is pushed inwards, the secondary membrane of the tympanum, which blocks up the fenestra rotunda, must be bulged outwards. When the membrana tympani returns to its original condition these movements are reversed. That the movement inwards of the incus must closely accompany that of the malleus, is necessitated by the fact that the lower margin of its articular surface has a well Fig. 103. FlGURE 10 SHOW THE INTERLOCKING OF THE MALLEUS and incus. (Helmlioltz.) The line a b indicates the axis of rotation of the two bones, the line x y z joins this axis with the two ends of the crank lever which these bones form. body of incus head of malleus tooth of incus interlocking with tooth of malleus processus gracilis end of long process of incus marked projection which catches against the prominent border of the articular surface of the malleus (fig. 102, sp, and fig. 103). If, however, in consequence of increase of tension of the air in the tym- panum, the malleus should be moved too freely outwards, the incus need not follow that movement to its fall extent, but may merely glide over the smooth adjoining surface of the malleus, and thus the danger that there would otherwise be of forcibly dragging out the stapes from the fenestra ovalis is avoided (Helmholtz). The tensor tympani muscle, being attached near the base of the manubrium of the malleus, draws the whole bone and the membrane inwards, tightening the latter. Its action is opposed by the strong external ligament of the malleus. The tensor tympani exerts but little rotating action upon the malleus. The action of the stape- dius muscle is obviously to draw the head of the. stapes backwards, in doing which the hinder end of the base of that bone will be pressed against the margin of the fenestra ovalis, while the fore part will be withdrawn from the fenestra. The lining membrane of the tympanum.—The mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is further prolonged from the tympanum backwards into the mastoid cells. The malleus and incus are invested by the lining membrane of the outer wall of the cavity. The membrane forms also folds extending down from the roof in front of and behind the conjoined heads of the incus and malleus, and another passing down to the chorda tympani nerve or even below it ; these folds wholly or partially separate off small pouch-like portions of the tympanic cavity which will be further90 THE EAR. noticed be ow Another well-marked fold has been already noticed in connection wih the tendon of the tensor tympani, and various other* smaller folds re met with. They^often contain strands of fibrous tissue and sometimes osseous spicules All these folds are, however, very variable in their development I he mucous membrane which lines the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube Z ilT I V mC1mbmn? °f thC Phar^ with it is immediately con! tinuous ; it s I luck and vascular, is covered by ciliated epithelium, and is provided Zit 217 61 mUC°US fW1InCh P°Ur °Ut a thick 8ecretio« : * th~" pait of the tube, however, the membrane becomes gradually thinner. In the tym- panum and the mastoid cells the mucous membrane is paler, thinner and less vascular, and secretes a small amount of less viscid, yellowish fluid.' Accord- ing to most observers no glands are normally met with in the tympanum, but Erause has described and figured simple glands in parts, and Troltsch describes an acinous gland on the external wall, anteriorly. Between the mucous membrane and the periosteum is a network of fibrous bundles, which are here and there raised above the general surface, causing corresponding projections of the mucous mem- brane. In various places on the interlacing bundles, peculiar swellings occur of various sizes, which appear to be caused by the superaddition of concentrically arranged fibres upon the smaller bundles, producing an appearance similar to that ol miniature _ Pacinian corpuscles (Politzer, Kessel). The epithelium in the tympanic cavity is in part columnar and ciliated, with small cells between the bases of the ciliated cells, but the promontory, the ossicula, and the membrana, are covered with a simple layer of flattened non-ciliated cells (Kolliker) ; and a similar non-cihated epithelium is said to line the mastoid antrum and cells Recesses or pouches of the tympanum.—The ossicula, as well as the ligaments which unite them with the wall of the tympanum, and the chorda tympani nerve, are all invested by folds of the lining mucous membrane, which in many cases also pass across the spaces between the several ligaments and bony projections. These uniting folds and the prominences which they cover and connect thus mark off in certain places pouch-like portions of the general cavity. There is a good deal of variation in the extent of development of these folds and pouches but some are fairly constant in their occurrence, and one pouch in particular' between the heads of the malleus and incus and the external wall is nearly shut off trom the rest of the cavity by well marked folds, which pass down from the roof of the tympanum m front of and behind the suspensory ligament of the malleus This pouch may be termed the superior external pouch. Immediately below it and partly separated from it by the anterior and external ligaments of the malleus and a fold of membrane which unites them, is another smaller pouch, described by Prussak, which may be termed the infero-extemal. It is bounded above by the ligaments and folds just mentioned, externally by the membrana flaccida, below and internally by the processus brevis mallei. In front it ends blindly, but behind it opens into the general cavity of the tympanum. This pouch is of considerable importance clinically and pathologically because fluid (e.g., pus) may accumulate in it, especially since its opening into the rest of the posterior pouch is placed somewhat above its floor. It is into this pouch that perforations of the membrana flaccida occur. The fold which passes down from the roof of the cavity towards the mesial part of the neck of the malleus, and which incloses in or near its free border the chorda tympani nerve, also separates off two pouches, one in front of and the other behind the manubrium mallei, and both bounded externally by the membrana tympani. These pouches are the anterior aud posterior pouches of Troltsch. For a detailed description of the various folds and pouches, the student is referred to certain of the memoirs cited in the Bibliography.97 VESSELS AND NERVES OF TYMPANUM. In the foetus the mucous membrane of the tympanum consists of a swollen gela- tinous embryonic tissue which fills the cavity, leaving only an irregular cleft between its folds Towards the end of intrauterine life the membrane becomes gradually thinner ond less gelatinous and the cleft enlarges, fluid accumulating within it. \f ter birth this fluid becomes replaced by air, and the mucous membrane speedily acquires the thin fibrous character which it exhibits throughout life. superior ligament of malleus head of malleus superior external pouch s external ligament of malleus -| inferior external pouch (of Prussak) processus brevis mallei external auditory meatus J tendon of tensor tijmpani manubrium mallei end of manubrium Fig. 104.— Section through the malleus and membrana timpani, showing some op the pouches or recesses of the tympanio CAVITY. (After Merkel.) Vessels and nerves of tympanum.—The arteries of the tympanum, though very small, are numerous, and are derived from branches of the external carotid, and from the internal carotid. The fore part of the cavity is supplied chiefly by the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which enters by the fissure of Glaser. The back part of the cavity including the mastoid cells, receives its arteries from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, which is conducted to the tympanum by the aque- duct of Fallopius. These two arteries form by their anastomosis a vascular circle round the margin of the membrana tympani. The smaller arteries of the tympanum are, the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii, and branches through the-bone from the internal carotid artery, furnished from that vessel whilst in the carotid canal. The veins of the tympanum empty their contents into the superior petrosal sinus and the temporo-maxillary vein. Nervps.—The tympanum contains numerous nerves ; for, besides those which supply the parts of the middle ear itself, there are several which serve merely to connect nerves of different origin. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied by filaments from the tympanic plexus, which occupies the shallow grooves on the inner wall of the cavity, particularly on the surface of the promontory (fig. 93). This plexus (fig. 105) is formed by 1st, the nerve of Jacobson from the petrosal ganglion of the glossopharyngeal; 2nd, the small deep petrosal nerve, a filament connecting the nerve of Jacobson with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 3rd, a branch which joins the great superficial petrosal nerve; 4th and lastly, the small superficial petrosal nerve, passing to the otic ganglion. Numerous ganglion cells are found both in the uniting cords and also at the points of junction of the plexus. vol. in., pt. 3. H98 THE EAR. The nerve of Jacobson or tympanic nerve enters the tympanum by a small foramen near its floor, which forms the upper end of a short canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, beginning at the base of the skull between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa. The nerve connecting it with the carotid plexus is above and in front, and passes through the bone directly from the carotid canal I lie branch to the great superficial petrosal nerve is lodged in a canal which opens on the inner wall of the tympanum in front of the fenestra ovalis. The small superficial petrosal nerve also leaves at the fore part of the cavity beneath the canal tor the tensor tympani. rmT!'f tenS,01" tymPani muscle obtains ifcs nei>ve from the internal pterygoid of the tilth through the otic ganglion ; as already mentioned its nerve is provided with a small ganglion. The stapedius receives filaments from the facial nerve The chorda tympani, arising from the facial near the lower end of the aqueduct of l<allopius, takes a recurrent course to the tympanum, which it enters by an Fig. 105.—The facial nerve in its canal, WITH ITS CONNECTING BRANCHES, &C. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Le- veille.) I The mastoid and a part of the petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the internal meatus to the stylo- mastoid foramen ; the Vidian canal has also been opened from the outer side : 1, facial nerve in the first horizontal part of its course ; 2, its second part turning backwards ; 3, its vertical portion ; 4, the nerve at its exit from the stylo- mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion ; 6, large superficial petrosal nerve; 7, spheno- palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, chorda tympani; 10, posterior auricu- lar branch cut short; 11, branch to the digastric , „ , . ... . , , muscle; 12, branch to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; id, twig uniting with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (14 and 15). aperture in the posterior wall (iter chordce poslerius) just below the level of the pyramid. From this place it passes with a slight curve across the cavity near the outer boundary, and crossing successively the posterior rjart of the membrana tympani, the handle of the malleus near its neck, and the processus gracilis of the same bone, finally enters a small canalf (iter chordce anterius) in the bone close to the Glaserian fissure (fig. 90, ch). It is invested by the fold of the lining membrane already mentioned. THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. The inner, essential part of the organ of hearing, is contained in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It consists of a complex cavity—the osseous laby- rinth—hollowed out of the bone, and containing the membranous labyrinth. The osseous labyrinth is incompletely divided into three parts, named the vesti- bule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea. They are lined throughout by a thin periosteal membrane, within which there is a clear fluid named perilymph, or liquor Cotunnii. The membranous labyrinth being distinctly smaller than the bony labyrinth, a space is left between the two, occupied by the perilymph just referred to. The membranous structure is lined throughout by epithelium,' and at certain parts receives branches of the auditory nerve. It contains a fluid named the endolymph, and consists of several parts, viz.: the utricle, saccule, semicircular canals, and membranous cochlea.H 2 0 THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 99 THE OSSEOUS LABYBINTH. The vestibule forms a central chamber of the labyrinth, which communicates in front with the cochlea, and behind with the semicircular canals. It is irregularly ovoidal in shape, measuring about 5mm. from above down and from before back but slightly less from without inwards. The outer wall, which separates it from the cavity of the tympanum, is perforated by the fenestra ovalis, which in the recent state is closed by the base of the stapes. At the fore part of the inner wall is a small round pit, the fovea hemispherica (fig. 108, 2 ; fig. Ill), pierced with many minute holes, which serve to transmit branches of the auditory nerve from the internal auditory meatus to the saccule. This fossa is limited behind by a vertical ridge named crista vestibuli, the anterior the fenestra ovalis. Natural size. (Testut.) A, anterior, B, posterior segment, showing the cut surfaces. m.e., meatus extornus ; m.tymp., groove for membrana tympani; c.tymp., tympanic cavity ; antr.mast., antrum mastoideum ; pr., promontory ; or.Eu.t., orifice of Eustachian tube ; f.o., fenestra ovalis ; f.r., fenestra rotunda ; each., commencement of cochlea ; m.i, meatus audit, mternus ; art.car., carotid artery. extremity of which has been termed the pyramid of the vestibule, and merges on to the roof. The crista passes backwards and downwards and bifurcates behind the fovea hemispherica ; the fork encloses a small fossa, which was termed rccessu* cochlearis by Reichert: it receives the beginning of the ductus cochlearis and is pierced with a number of holes for the passage of nerve-fibres (fig. Ill, fossa cochlearis). Behind the lower part of the crest is the small oblique groove which deepens into a fine canal, the aqueduct of the vestibule (fig. 108, 4). This extends to the posterior surface of the petrous bone and transmits the ductus endo- lymphaticus (p. 105) and a small vein. In the roof is an oval depression, placed somewhat transversely, fovea hemi- elliptica (fig. 108,1 ; fig. Ill), which is separated by the crest from the hemispherical fossa. The crest and pyramid close to this fossa are pierced with fine holes for the passage of nerve-fibres, those in the crest itself being destined for the utricle : those in the pyramid for the ampullse of the superior and external semicircular canals. At the back part of the vestibule are five round apertures, leading into the semi-100 THE EAR. circular canals : and at the lower and fore part of the cavity is a larger opening whioh communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. The semicircular canals are three tubes, situated above and behind the vesti- bule, into which they open by five apertures, the contiguous ends of two of the canals being joined. They are unequal in length, but each tube is bent so as to form about two-thirds of an ellipse; and is moreover dilated at one end, the enlargement being known as the ampulla. The canals are compressed laterally, and measure 1mm. to l-5mm. across ; but the ampulla has a diameter of about 2mm The canals differ from one another in direction, in length, and in position with regard to the vestibule. The superior semicircular canal (fig. L08, 3, fig. 109, 5), 1 '•> mm. long, is nearly vertical and lies transversely to the bony axis of the petrous B 8.c.e. s.c.s-j). n.vh. n.mvi.s. stntymp. pr. arnp.is. amp. c. aq.Fall. , o.Ev.t. K1 8. Fig. 107.—Portions of the previous figure enlarged. (Testut.) A., anterior ; B., posterior segment, amp.e., amp.s. and amp.p., ampullary orifices of external, superior and posterior semicircular canals ; s.c.e., non-ampullary orifice of the external canal; s.c.s-p., conjoint non-ampullary orifice of the superior and posterior canals ; aq.Fall., aqueductus Fallopii ; f.o., fenestra ovalis ; f.r., fenestra rotunda ; aq.cochl., aqueductus cochleae ; sc.vest., commencement of scala vestibuli: that of the scala tympani is just below it ; lam.sp., spiral lamina ; n. VII., orifice for facial nerve ; n. VIII. s., orifices for superior or vestibular division of auditory nerve ; tr.sp.for., orifices for cochlear nerve ; f.s., foramen siugulare ; pyr., pyramid ; pr., promontory ; sin.tymp., sinus tym- pani ; o.Eu.t., orifice of osseous Eustachian tube. bone, forming an angle of about 45° with the coronal plane ; it rises higher than any other part of the labyrinth, and its place is indicated by a smooth arched projection on the upper surface of the petrous bone. The ampullary end of this canal is the external and anterior, and opens by a distinct orifice into the upper part of the vestibule (fig. 107, s); whilst the opposite extremity joins the non-dilated end of the posterior semicircular canal, and opens by a common aperture with it into the back,part of the vestibule (fig. 107, s.c.s-p.; fig. 109, 3). The posterior semi- circular canal (fig. 108, 5, fig. 109, 6), is also nearly vertical, and lies in a plane which is almost parallel with the superior canal of the other side (Crum Brown). The posterior and superior canals of the same side incline towards one another at their inner ends. The posterior is the longest of the three (22 mm.) : its ampullary end is at the lower and back part of the vestibule (fig. 107, amp.p) ; and the opposite end terminates in the common canal above described (s.c.s-p.). TheTHE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 101 external semicircular canal (fig. 108, 4 ; fig. 109, 7) arches horizontally outwards, unci opens by two distinct orifices into the upper and back part of the vestibule (fig. 107, amp* and s.c.e.). The canal is shorter than either of the other two (15 mm.): its ampulla is at the outer end, above the fenestra ovahs. Fig 108 —Right bony labyrinth, viewed from the outer side (after Sommerrmg). °' Magnified 2^ times. The specimen here represented is prepared by separating piecemeal the looser sutatance of the petrous bone from the dense walls which immediately enc ose the labyrinth 1, the vestibule ; Henestrovali3 superior semicircular canal ; 4, horizontal or external canal; 5 posterior canal ; * • vSjSEof the Semicircular canals ; 6, first turn of the cochlea ;_7, second turn j 8, apex ; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure in outline below shows the natural size. Fig. 109.—View of the interior op the left labyrinth. (From Sbmmerring.) ^ The bony wall of the labyrinth is removed superiorly and externally. > 1, fovea hemi-elliptica ; 2, fovea hemisphere ; 3, common opening of the superior and posterior semicircular canals ; 4, opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 5, the superior ; 6, the posterior, and 7, the external Beno^lax canals ; 8, spiral tube of the cochlea (scala tympani) ; 9, opening of the aqueduct of the cochlea , 10, placed on the lamina spiralis in the scala vestibuli. The cochlea (figs. 108 to 116), when cleared of the surrounding less dense bony substance in which it lies embedded, appears in the form of a blunt cone, the base of which is turned towards the internal auditory meatus, whilst the apex is directed Fig. 110.—Views of a cast of the interior of the labyrinth. (From Henle.) ? Such casts may easily be made in fusible metal, and give a very correct view of the form of the different parts of the labyrinthic cavity. A, view of the left labyrinth from the outer side , B the right labyrinth from the inner side ; C, the left labyrinth from above ; s, the superior, ^ the posterior and e, the external semicircular canals; a, their several ampulla ; r e fovea hemi-elliptica ot the vestibule ; r s, fovea hemisphere ; a v, aqueduct of the vestibule ; f o, fenestra ovalis ; f r, teneslra rotunda ; c, the coiled tube of the cochlea ; c', the tractus spiralis foraminulentus. outwards, with an inclination forwards and downwards, and is close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It measures about 5mm. from base to apex, and 9 mm. in breadth at the base. It consists of a gradually tapering spiral tube, the inner wall of which is formed by a central column, or modiolus (fig. 113), around which102 THE EAR. it winds. It is partially divided along its whole extent by a spiral lamina projecting into it from the modiolus. From this osseous spiral lamina membranous structures are m the recent condition stretched across to the outer wall of the tube and thus completely separate two passages or scale, one on each side of the spiral lamina, which communicate one with the other only by a small opening, named hehcotrema, placed at the apex of the cochlea. CufaUt- ! Hamulus Tympanic cauiiy Lam.. spircUls f&iestrarovaiis Aperture leading into / ' 'scala tympani — - fossa./lemCepherico. fossa. cockUariG ■Ext. semZc. catvajL rPost.semicccutcU, - fossa. hemUtflifiUccL. Lam., spiralis Scala. tympani ScaXa t/cstiiuii. Aq. </eat6t>uXi, Fig. 111.—The cochlea and vestibule exposed by removing the roof of the bony labyrinth WITH THE SAW, SO AS TO VIEW THE PARTS FROM ABOVE. Magnified. (Test.lt.) That the cochlea is justly to be considered as an elongated tube, coiled spirally on the X IS -iU^ed+by the simple pouch-like form of the rudimentary cochlea dbi^S (fig. 112) as well as by the history of its development. The spiral osseous canal is about 33mm. lon»-, and about 2mm. iu diameter at the commencement, where it is widest. From this point the canal makes nearly 2* turns round the central pillar (from left to right in the right ear, and in the oppose direction m the left ear, supposing the cochlea viewed from the base), and ends by au arched and closed extremity called the cupola, which forms the summit of the Fig. 112.—Osseous Labyrinth of the barn owl (strix flammea). (From Breschet.) £ 1, semicircular canals ; 2, vestibule ; 3, cochlea in the form of a short straight lube. ° cochlea. The first coil, having by far the most extensive curve and being the largest portion of the tube, nearly hides the second from view ; and, bulging somewhat into the tympanum, forms the round elevation on the inner wall of that cavity called the promontory. The last half-coil is somewhat flattened from above down and its extremity is partly embedded in the coil next below it. The modiolus (columella cochlea?), the central pillar or axis of the cochlea is much the thickest within the first turn of the tube, rapidly diminishing in size in the succeeding parts. Its central part is spongy as far as the last half-coil, and is pierced by many small canals, for the passage of the nerves and vessels to the spiral lamina ; one of these canals, larger than the rest, central canal of the modiolus, runs from the base through the centre of the modiolus (fig. 114). The base of the modiolus appears in the internal auditory meatus as the fossula cochleae containing the foramen centrale and the tractus spiralis foraminulentus : the latter transmit-103 THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. tin* the nerve-fibres of H turns of the cochlear tube, the former being continued of the modiolus and transmitting the nerve-fibres tor the U%TtSW«/ lamina is a thin, flat plate, growing from the modiolus, and scala vestibuli helictrcma expansion of cochlear nerve lamina spiralis scala tympani membranacea Fig. 113.—Diagrammatic view of tue osseous cochlea laid open. (Arnold.) proiecting into the spiral tube, so as to divide it partly into two. It does not reach farther than about half-way towards the outer wall of the spiral tube. Close to the scala vestibuli scala tympani lamina spiralis ossea meatus audilorius internus (fovea cochlew) Fig. 114.—View of the osseous cochlea divided through the middle. (Arnold.) :1pex of the cochlea, it ends in a hooklike process {hamulus), which partly bounds the helicotrema. Opposite the lamina spiralis at the commencement or base of the cochlear tube is another bony lamina (secondary spiral lamina) which nearly meets the spiral lamina, so that there is here only a narrow cleft between the two. The lamina is dense at its free edge ; but nearer the modiolus its internal104 THE EAH. structure is more open and spongy, and contains numerous small canals for vessels and nerves, continuous with, but running at right angles to, the canals in the modiolus. Winding round the modiolus, in the base of the spiral lamina, is a small canal, named the spiral canal of the modiolus. scala tympani (fig. Ill . fig. L13, 8), the portion of the tube on the basal side ot the lamina spiralis, commences at the fenestra rotunda, where in tlx. recent state it is separated from the tympanum by the secondary membrane of the tympa- num. Close to its commencement is the orifice of a small canal (aqueduclus cochlea) which extends downwards and inwards to the lower border of the petrous bone where it opens into a depression immediately in front of the jugular fossa li transmits a small vein which joins the inferior petrosal sinus. There is also a communication along the aqueductus cochlea3 between the subarachnoid space and the perilymph in the scala tympani. The scala vestibuli (figs. 111, 113, 4) j6 rather narrower than the scala tympani in the first turn of the cochlea,' but in the succeeding turns is larger ; it commences from the cavity of the vestibule, and com- municates, as already described, with the scala tympani at the apex of the modiolus. THE MEMBBANOUS LABYBINTH. Within the osseous labyrinth, and separated in most parts from its lining mem- brane by the perilymph, membranous structures exist in which the ultimate ramifi- cations of the auditory nerve are spread. In the vestibule and semicircular canals Fig. 115.—Plan op the right membranous labyrinth VIEWED FROM THE MESIAL ASPECT. (E. A. S.) u, utricle, with its macula and the three semicircular canals with their ampullae ; s, saccule; s.e. saccus endo- lymphaticus ; c.r. canalis reuniens; c.c. canal of the cochlea. R these structures have a general resemblance in form to the complicated cavity in which they are contained. They do not, however, lie loose within the osseous cavity, but along the convex border of the canals, and at the places of entrance of the nerves into the vestibule and ampullae are fixed to its wall. In the cochlea the membranous structures complete the septum between the scalae already mentioned, and enclose an intermediate passage, the membranous canal of the cochlea. As before stated, the liquid contained within the membranous labyrinth is distinguished as endolymph. The cavity which contains the perilymph communicates through the sheath of the auditory nerve with both the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. Within the osseous vestibule are two membranous sacs, the one of which, termed the utricle, is connected with the semicircular canals, whilst the other, the saccule, is connected with the cochlea. These two sacs although in close contact do not open directly into one another although they are in indirect communication, in a manner presently to be explained. The larger of the two sacs, the common sinus or utricle (fig. 115, u ; fig. 116), is of a very irregular oblong form, measuring in all 6 mm. to 7 mm. in length, and averaging 5 mm. in breadth, slightly flattened from behind forwards. It is lodged in the upper and back part of the vestibule, occupying the fovea hemi-elliptica and the space immediately below this. The part which lies in the fovea is termed the recessus ulriculi (fig. 116, rec. utr.). This forms a distinct blind forward projection, some 3 mm. in length, into which, opposite the crista vestibuli, several small branches of the auditory nerve enter from the foramina in the bone ; and here theTHE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 10. j wall of the utricle is thickened, the thickening- having a concave surface towaids le interior of the utricle, and being covered by auditory epithelium (macula aats^ulrkuli). A small mass of calcareous particles (otoliths or otocoma) lies Fig. 116.—Otoliths. (From Schwalbe.) within the sac, attached to the macula. These otoliths are crystals of carbonate of lime, rhombic, octahedral, or six-sided, often pointed at their ex- ^ tremities (fig. 118). . . n The ends of all the membranous semicircular canals open into the utricle in the situations shown in the diagrams, and a fine canal (canalis utriculo- saccularis) passes from the antero-mesial wall of the utricle, which joins with another one from the saccule to form the ductus endo- bjmphaticus (fig, 116, d.e) (see below). The ampulla of the superior and external canals open into the roof of the recessus utrfcuH X part of the utricle where the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal opens S termed by G Retzius shins posterior, and the conjoined limbs of the superior and external o^St^sLs superior oi that author. In all vertebrates below mammals the^ utricle ITs a second macula acustica in its lower part near the sinus posterior (macula negleeta of Retzius). The smaller vesicle, the saccule (fig. 115, s ; fig. 117), is an irregularly oval vesicle about 3 mm. long and nearly 2 mm. broad, and is somewhat flattened from within out The saccule is situated in the lower and fore part of the cavity ot the osseous vestibule, close to the opening from the scala vestibuli of the cochlea and is received into the hollow of the fovea hemispherica, from the bottom of which many branches of nerve enter it, and here there is a similar broad and concave macula in its wall, which is covered by a small mass of otoliths. The upper end of the saccule bends round towards the recessus utriculi, with which it comes in contact, without direct communication (fig. 117). The saccule gradually narrows below into a short funnel-shaped duct (1 mm, lono- 0-5 mm. wide), the canalis reuniens of Hensen (fig. 115, c. r. ; fig. 117, 19), which passes downwards and outwards to open directly into the epithelial canal of the cochlea a short distance from its blind lower extremity. There is also, as already mentioned, a canal, lined with epithelium, which passes from the posterior wall of the saccule along the aqueductus vestibuli to end blindly m a dilated extremity (saccus endo-lymVliaticus, fig. 115, s.e.) on the posterior surface of he petrous bone just below the orifice of the aqueduct and lying m the tissue of the aura mater (Cotugno). This canal is joined near its origin by a minute tube from the utricle (fig. 117, 7), so that in this way the cavity of the saccule is brought into communication with that of the utricle (Boettcher). The membranous semicircular canals are from one-third to one-nlth the diameter of the osseous tubes in which they are lodged, and are dilated into ampullae within the ampullary enlargements of those tubes. In section they are oval or some- what elliptical (fig. 119). The ampullar measure from 2 mm. to 2'5 mm in length ; they are thicker and less translucent than the rest of the canals, and nearly fill their bony cases, the (membranous) ampullar being nearly three^ times the diameter of the canals. That part of each which is towards the concavity of the semicircle of the canal is free ; whilst the opposite portion is fixed to the wall of the bony canal; in the ampulla this part is flattened and receives branches of nerves and blood-vessels, and on its inner surface is a transverse projection (septum transversum) which partly divides the cavity into two, and broadens out somewhat at either end. The most prominent part of the septum, which is surmounted by the auditoryFig. 118. 100 THE KAU. 4 5' 6 7 8 9 11 10 1'20 5" 19,18,17,16,15 h 13 Fig. 117.THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 107 Fig. W.-ttlOHT HUMAN MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH, REMOVED FROM » BONY EN0LOSUKE, AN, VIBWHD FROM THE ANTERO-LATERAL ASPECT. (tr. itet/lUS.; • Fig. 118.—The same from the postero-mesial aspect. (G. Retzius.) ? • • i „„„„i . t Uo nmTmlln • 9 nosterior canal; 2', its ampulla ; 3, superior canal ; 3 , its ampulla , *, conjoineu i n i , g d t endolymphaticus ; 7, canalis ^^e^SthiB internal auditory meatus (the separation between them as not apparent m the section). epithelium, is termed the crista aoustica. Seen from above {i.e., through the roof of the ampulla), the septum is somewhat fiddle-shaped, the ends being broader than C.tAtr.-sac. Fig. 119,-Views of the external semicircular canal, human. Magnified. (G. Retzius.) A, The whole of the external canal attached to the utricle, the anterior and posterior canals having been cut away Amp.exL, ampulla of the external canal ; Amp.ant., ampulla of the antenoi canal , Cr^ crista acLica of the same ; R.utr., reoessus utriculi; S.utr, sinus »tnc^c«; S.utr.p., sinus utriculi posterior, ditto ; C.utr.sac, canalis utnculo-saccularis ; M.utr., fibres passing to macula recessus utriculi; M.utr.', the same passing round the wall ot the utricle. B, Lateral view of the external ampulla ; n, nerve bundle entering crista. C View of external ampulla, showing the free surface of the crista acustica, Cr. D, Transverse sectional view of the external ampulla, showing the transverse extent of the crista, Cr. ; n, nerve fibres.108 THE EAlt. the middle , and beyond each rounded end of the crista is a crescent-shaped dge (covered by.coumnar epithelium) which has been termed 0mmTS lunalum, (fig. 119, 0. D.). Branches of the eighth nerve—Within the internal auditory meatus the eighth nerve divides into two branches, which, broken up into minute filaments, pass through perforations in'the plate of bone which separates the meatus from the internal ear, and are distributed respectively to the cochlea and vestibule. In both branches as well as in the trunk, there are numerous nerve-cells. The superior a%vmm (fig. 13 8, 8, 0, ]0), which is at first also anterior in position (ramus anterior of Ketzius), and is separated by a crest of bone from the other division below it, gives oft three branches, which proceed respectively to the utricle and the ampullse of the superior and external semicircular canals, entering the vestibular cavity in a group falciform orifice for orifices for vestibular division ridge facial nerve of eighth nerve apex of petrous tract, spi. foram. cent, canal of mo- diolus saccule orif. foram. vest, scala fossa for sing. tymp. ovalis nerve oj Fig. 120. -The petrosal sawn through in two planes, so as to show the extremity op the INTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS AND THE VESTIBULE. (Testut.) along the crista vestibuli. This superior division has a ganglion upon it whilst still within the internal auditory meatus {ganglion of Scarpa) and the ganglion-cells also extend for some distance along the branches within the canals in the bone. The inferior division on the other hand (ramus posterior of Retzius) (I), which is at first behind as well as below the' vestibular division, gives off, besides the cochlear branch which enters the cochlea by the tractus foraminulentus. a branch for the saccule—which enters the vestibule by a small group of foramina, opening at the bottom of the fovea hemispherica—and a branch for the posterior semicircular canal ; this is long and slender, and traverses a small passage in the bone (foramen singular e)^ behind the foramina for the nerve of the saccule. The part of the inferior division which gives the branches to the saccule and posterior canal is distinguished by Schwalbe as the ramus medius. The branch to the saccule also has a ganglion upon it within the meatus and that to the posterior semicircular canal a ganglion near its ending in the ampulla {ganglion of Corii), whereas theVESSELS OF THE LABYRINTH. 109 ganglion of the cochlear branch lies within the modiolus, at the base of the spiral Famuia (ganglion spirate). All the cells of these several ganglia are, tapotor.The nerves of the ampullae enter the flattened or least prominent side of the ampu lae, where tLj eac^form a forked swelling, which corresponds with the crista acustica, in the interior of the dilatation. . Vessels of the labyrinth.—The internal auditory artery, a branch of the basilar accompanies the auditory nerve in the internal auditory meatus, and divides into bChVfor the vestibule" and cochlea. Those of the vestibule supply the membranous labyrinth and the endosteum, and small vessels ensheathed by fibrous Zue pass across the cavity containing the perilymph. The blood is chiefly collected into the internal auditory veins which accompany the artery and open into the inferior petrosal sinus, but some is conveyed to the inferior petrosal sum bv flue veins in the aqueductus vestibuli and aqueductus cochlea. Small arterial branches from the vessels of the dura mater and also from the sty o-mastoid artery and from vessels of the middle ear, supply the bony walls of the labyrinth, but do not appear to anastomose with the arteries of the membranous labyrinth Structure of the utricle, saccule, and semicircular canals. — lnree layers can be distinguished in the membranous walls of the semicircular canals, an Fig. 121.—Section of one op THE HUMAN SEMIGIECULA.il canals. (Riidinger.) Mag- nified. 1, osseous wall ; 2, fibrous bands with included blood-vessels, united at 3 with the periosteum ; 4, membranous canal with its three layers; 5, short fibrous bands (with intervening spaces) uniting the membranous canal firmly to the periosteum ; 6, union of its outermost layer with the periosteum. outer fibrous stratum, an inner epithelial lining, and between the two a tunica propria. These layers are not of equal thickness throughout, for along the side which is in contact with and supported by the bone (fig. 122, 6), they are thinner than at the rest of the circumference, where they lie free and are bathed by the perilymph. The difference in thickness affects the fibrous layer and the tunica propria only, for the epithelium forms throughout a lining of simple flattened cells. The fibrous layer (fig. 122, 1), which contains some irregular pigment-cells, is apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, similar to that of the periosteum, with which it becomes continuous at the parts where the two structures are m con- tact. It is especially developed at the ends of the oval section, whence well-marked bands of fibrous tissue pass to the periosteum (fig. 122, 7). More delicate bands of fibrous tissue traverse the perilymph to become connected with the periosteum of the opposite wall of the canal (fig. 121, 2). Both along these bands and also more directly from the contiguous periosteum, numerous small blood-vessels pass into the110 THE EAR. fibrous layer and there break up into a coarse capillary network, the branches of which do not, id man, pass into the tunica propria. The tunica propria is a clear membranous structure continuous around the whole tube, although tidoning off very much opposite the part whore the membranous oanal is m contact with the bone (fig. 122, .0). Externally it is not very distinctly marked off from the fibrous ooat : internally it has a number of papilliform emi- nences (fig 122, 6,) which project into the interior of the canal except at the thin- nest part (Eudmger). The epithelial lining takes the form of a complete layer of flattened cells which in the human semicircular canals are of the same nature throughout, except along Fig. 122.—Section of membranous semici RCULAR CANAL, MUCH MAGNIFIED. (Riidinger. ) 5 fixerSerfXS' V™10^1'0^ 3' °' PaPiUiform Projections with epithelial covering- l^riostenm ' ^ ^ pr0pria wittout Pa?il]£e ' 7> fibrous bands passing "to the outer part of the lumen, where there is a longitudinal tract of cells which are canal ^ ^ ™S ^ iS sometimes fcermed the raphe of the In many of the lower animals—birds and fishes—some of these limn- cells are columnar wi£ len^h Tl^ ^ >(SaIm° h?Ch?> " dGSCribed * a SonTthe whole length of each canal becomes developed into two rows of rounded cells from each of winch a long filament extends to the wall of the canal in a direction trZ^TS,^ The ampullae, as well as the saccule and utricle, agree generally in structure with the semicircular canals : but at the part where they are connected with the osseous wall the fibrous outer layer is looser, and the tunica propria is much thickened and m the ampullae projects into the cavity as the septum transvermm surmounted by the crista acuslica, before mentioned (fig. 119). Through the substance of this thickening the nerve-fibres pass to the edge of the ridge and over it the epithelium is of an elongated columnar form (fi<jS. 123 to l->6)"and is sur- mounted by long, conical, gradually tapering filaments (auditory hairs (h), ), which project stiffly into the cavity, aud are about 0-03 mm. in length. These hairs are borne by the columnar epithelium-cells (fig. 120), a single hair projecting from each cell, but under the influence of reagents they are apt to become broken near the base, and thus split up into fine fibrils which appear as a bunch of cilium-like filaments attached to the free border of the cell. The columnar cells, or ha,r-, < 7, do not extend down to the basement membrane, but terminate short of this in aVESSELS OF THE LABYRINTH. Ill rounded extremity. They are surrounded by the branching axis-cylinders of the nerve-fibres which penetrate into the epithelium ; the medullary sheath disappears Fig. 123.—Longitudinal section op an ampulla through the crista acustica. Semi-diagrammatic (E.A.S.). "amp, cavity of the ampulla; sc. c, semicircular canal opening out of it; c. connective tissue attached to the wall of the membranous ampulla and traversing the perilymph ; e e, flattened epithelium of ampulla; h, auditory hairs projecting from the columnar cells of the auditory epithelium into the cupula, cup. term. ; v, limit of the auditory epithelium on the crista ; n, nerve-fibres entering the base of the crista and passing into the columnar cells. as the fibres enter the epithelial layer, and the axis-cylinders ramify amongst the cells, but there does not appear to be any actual continuity between the terminal arborizations of the nerve fibres (fig. 125) and the hair-cells. Fig. 124. Section oi the macula acustica of the recessus utkiculi, human. (Gr. Retzius.) Magnified. n.vir., bundles of the utricular branch of the eighth nerve; h, hair-cells ; p.l.s., perilymphatic space. Between and beneath the columnar cells other cells are met with of a different character. They take the form of long and comparatively rigid fibres (fibre-cells of Eetzius) which extend through the whole thickness of the epithelium, and are pro- vided at one part of their course with a nucleated enlargement. This is alwaysTHE EAR. 112 placed below the columnar cells, and in many it is close to the central end of the fibre. The fibres, which are probably sustentacular in function, like the fibres Fig. 125.—Nerve terminations in MACULA ACUSTICA, SHOWN BY GOLGl'8 METHOD. (Gr. RetziuS. ) of Miiller in the retina and the cells of Deiters in the cochlea, expand slightly as they ap- proach the free surface, and appear to become attached to a cuticular structure which en- closes the ends of the hair-cells and is thus comparable to the reticular lamina of the cochlea (Urban Pritchard). On the other hand the fibres are set by their central ends upon a limiting membrane which bounds the epithelium next to the tunica propria, and which appears in section as a fine but well-marked line. Fig. 126.—Section of epithelium of ampulla of lacerta viridis. (GL Retzius.) Magnified. Auditory hairs Nuclei oj suf>poctUy ceils The limit of the auditory epithelium at the sides of the crest is sometimes marked, at least in the human ampullae, by a prominent vessel (fig. 123. r). The auditory hairs were first noticed by Max Schultze. who described them as being connected with the elongated cells and not with those of a columnar shape. Their true relations were pointed out by Retzius, and in this matter my own observations, in the fish and in man, coincide with his. When the cells are isolated after preservation in osmic acid, the separated columnar cells are alone surmounted by auditory hairs, whereas the elongated intermediate cells are not provided with auditory fila- ments. It is worthy of note that the auditory hairs do not in sections made from hardened specimens appear to project freely into the endolymph of the ampulla, but into a soft material which takes a dome-like shape (cujnrfa tcrminalis, Lang), and appears to possess an indistinctly fibrillar structure. If this material is pre-existent (and not merely, as some have supposed, produced by a swelling and alteration of the auditory hairs after death), it is not possible to imagine that the hairs can be set in vibration singly, but whatever movements are communicated to the endolymph, must affect the whole cupula and all the hairs embedded in it. The foregoing description of the characters of the epithelium and mode of nerve-distribution in the crista? acustica? of the ampullae, is equally applicable to the macula? acustica? of the saccule and utricle. The nerves which are supplied to the macules seem, however, to spread out more than those to the ampulla?. The auditory hairs are somewhat shorter than those of the ampulla?. As before mentioned, both saccule and utricle contain in their cavity and lying in contact with the nerve-epithelium a little mass of otoliths, which, however, do not float free in the fluid, but appear imbedded in a soft matrix which is perhaps enclosed in a delicate cuticular investment. Otoliths are also found scattered here and there in the ampulla? and semicircular canals. The membranous cochlea, which occupies the spirally-wound tube of the osseous cochlea consists like this of about two and three-quarter turns, which MtoUULaJxd rwue. fibres131 THE MEMBRANOUS COCHLEA. may be termed respectively the basal, middle, and apical, the last-named being incomplete. The total length of the tube is about 35 mm. In structure it resembles the membranous semicircular canals just described in consisting of a tube, lined by epithelium and containing endolymph, partly surrounded by a clear space containing perilymph, but it differs from them both in shape and in the modifica- tions presented by its epithelial lining. In macerated specimens, the two parts into which the osseous tube of the cochlea is divided are, it will be remembered, only imperfectly separated by the osseous spiral lamina which projects from the columella ; but in the fresh specimen the tube is separated completely into three distinct parts by means of two membranes, which extend along its whole length (figs. 127 to 129). In the first place the lamina spiralis is directly prolonged by a comparatively strong, well-marked membrane, the basilar membrane, which stretches straight across to the outer Avail of the cochlea, and is here connected to an inward Fig. 127.—Left cochlea of a child some weeks old (Keichert). \ The drawing was taken from a specimen which had been preserved in alcohol, and was afterwards dried ; a section is made so as to show the lamina spiralis, scalse, and cochlear canal io each of the three coils : the membranous spiral lamina is preserved, but the appearances connected with the orgaD of Corti, &c, have been lost from drying. / r, fossula of the fenestra rotunda. The secondary membrane of the tympanum is seen at the bottom of the fossula attached below to a bony projection of the lower wall (crista semilunaris, to the right of d) ; s t, scala tympani ; s v, scala vestibuli. In the lowermost turn the scala tympani is seen to be the larger : in the higher turns the proportions are reversed ; I s, lamina spiralis ; h, hamulus ; c c, canalis cochlese ; d, opening of the aqueductus cochlea?. Fig. 128.—Vertical section of the cochlea of a fostal calf (Kolliker). £ In this specimen the external wall was ossified, but the modiolus and spiral lamina was still cartilaginous ; the section shows in each part of the cochlear tube the two scala? with the intermediate canalis cochlea? and lamina spiralis. projection of the lining periosteum and sub-periosteal tissue known as the spiral ligament. The basilar membrane thus helps to complete the upper1 limit of the scala tympani but does not, properly speaking, enter into the lower boundary of the scala vestibuli, for a second, much more delicate membrane, known as the membrane of Reissner, passes from the upper part of the lamina a little distance from its end, and stretches obliquely upwards and outwards, also to become connected with the lining periosteum. The oblique direction of the membrane of Reissner causes a triangular space to be shut off between it and the basilar membrane, which is bounded externally by the outer osseous wall of the cochlea lined by periosteum ; and this space, extending throughout the whole length of the osseous tube, and lined throughout by an epithelium variously modified in different parts, is known distinctively as the canal of the cochlea, canalis membranaceus, 1 To avoid repetition it may here be stated that for convenience sake the cochlea is considered in the present description as having its larger part or base lowermost, and the domed extremity uppermost, although of course this is far from being the relative position of the parts whilst within the body. Moreover, parts nearer the columella are spoken of as inner; parts nearer the external wall as outer. VOL. III., PT. 3. ITHE EAR. 114 or ductus cochlcaris (fig. 127, cc ; figs. 128,129). It terminates in a blind extremity at the apex (lagena),1 and another at the base. That at the apex, extending memhrana scala lectoria vestibuli i memhrana scalu ganglion spiralc Iteissneri veslibuli memhrana basilar is ganglion spirale scala memhrana tympani basilaris Fig. 129.—Section through the middle op the cochlea, diagrammatic. (E. A. S.) beyond the hamulus, is fixed to the wall of the cupola, and partly bounds the helico- trema ; that at the base fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous stria vascularis Fig. 130.—Apex of cochlear canal. (Retzius.) spiral lamina in front of the floor of the vestibule. Near to this blind extremity the canal of the cochlea receives a small canal, lined with epithe- lium, canalis reiiniens (Hen- sen), which is continued from the saccule of the vestibule like a neck of a flask, and enters the canal of the cochlea abruptly nearly at a right angle (figs. 117, 118, 19). The cavity of the canal of the cochlea is thus rendered continuous with that of the saccule. The structures which are found upon the floor of this spirally-wound triangular canal of the cochlea claim more particular attention, for it is to them that the branches of the cochlear nerve are distributed, and upon them the function of the cochlea as a part of the auditory apparatus appears more especially dependent. 1 In monotremes and in birds, reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, there is a specially modified patch of auditory epithelium at the lagena, similar to the maculae of utricle and saccule, and provided with otoliths. In fishes this is the only nerve-terminal apparatus in the cochlea, which is also otherwise quite rudimentary. lagena hamulus bundles of cochlear nerve organ of Corti.115 THE MEMBRANOUS COCHLEA. The floor itself of the cochlear canal is formed of a narrow portion of the spiral lamina external to the membrane of Keissner, and of the basilar membrane. In the macerated specimen this part of the lamina thins off gradually to a fine edge like the blade of a knife, but in the recent condition (fig. 129) it retains its thickness for some distance (or even exhibits a slight increase), and then abruptly terminates with a border which in section is C-shaped, with the lower limb of the C {labium, himpankwn) much more prolonged and tapering than the upper {labium vesh- lulare). The lower limb is in fact the section of the end of the osseous lamina, together with a thin membranous layer which covers it, and which is directly prolonged into the basilar membrane. This membrane, as well as the whole thickened upper part of the edge of the spiral lamina, not being ossified, disappears in the process of maceration. The thickened part (fig. 131, I), with its somewhat Fig. 131. —Suction across the basal tvrn of the human cochlea. (G. Retzius.) Magnified. D C, ductus cochlea; ; s.v, scala vestibuli ; s.t, scala tympani ; B, membrana Reissneri ; Mt, mem- brana tectoria ; b.m, membrana basilaris ; str.v, stria vascularis ; Up, ligamentum spirale ; /, hmbus ; s.sp, sulcus spiralis ; t.O, tunnel of Corti ; n, nerve fibres ; sp.l, spiral lamina, overhanging, crest-like edge, is known as the limbics of the spiral lamina, and the groove which it overhangs, and which in section is represented by the bay of the 0, is known as the spiral groove (fig. 131, s.sp.). The tissue of which the limbus is composed seems to be a peculiar form of con- nective tissue. Towards the under and inner part there are numerous corpuscles, and the texture is fibrous, but above and near the crest few or no connective tissue cor- puscles are met with, but the tissue has a columnar aspect with somewhat regularly- arranged nuclei. The fibrillated tissue is prolonged, as just intimated, beyond the osseous lamina, into the basilar membrane. Near its termination, close to the junction with the basilar membrane, it is perforated with a number of regularly- arranged, elongated apertures (fig. 132, p), about 4,000 in number, which serve for the transmission of bundles of the nerve-fibres. The latter, in their course from the spiral ganglion to the auditory epithelium, are lodged, as far as this, in canals in the lower osseous part of the spiral lamina. Their arrangement will be afterwards more fully described. i 2THE EAJt. no When the linihus is viewed from above, the vestibular edge is seen to present a succession of tooth-like projections (fig. 182, Cr), about 7,000 in number alto- gether, which give it a jagged aspect. These projections are continued as flattened eminences a short distance on the upper surface of the limbus, which is, therefore, not smooth, at least near the edge, but marked in this way with eminences and intervening furrows. Nearer the line of origin of the membrane of Reissner, it becomes smoother, and here, too, its epithelial covering, which is directly continuous with that of the under surface of Keissner's membrane, is evenly distributed ; whereas at the crest itself the epithelial cells are columnar in the furrows, but flattened out over the teeth, so as to be invisible here with ordinary methods of preparation. Their outlines can, however, according to G. Retzius, be brought to view by the employment of the silver method. Immediately below the overhanging projections, the epithelium again forms a -well-defined layer of cubical or short columnar cells which hues the spiral groove, and is continuous externally with the specialized cells, presently to be described as forming the organ of Corti. The basilar membrane stretches, as before mentioned, straight between the osseous lamina and the spiral ligament, and separates the canal of the cochlea from the Fig. 132.—Semi-diagrammatic view of part of the basilar membrane and tunnel of corti of the rabbit, from above and the side. Much magnified. (E.A.S.) I, limbus ; Or, labium vestibulare or crest of limbus with tooth-like projections ; b b, basilar mem- brane ; sp.l, spiral lamina with, p, perforations for transmission of nerve fibres. In the lower half of the part of the spiral lamina here represented the nerve fibres are left, and are supposed to be seen through the upper layer of that lamina, converging to three of the perforations ; below, in the section of the lamina, they are shown occupying a canal, or cleft, in the osseous substance ; i.r, fifteen of the inner rods of Corti ; h.i, their flattened heads seen from above ; e.r, nine outer rods of Corti ; h.e, their heads, with the phalangeal processes extending outward from them and forming, with the two rows of phalanges, the lamina reticularis, l.r. On the left of the figure the connective tissue fibres and nuclei of the undermost layer of the basilar membrane are seen through the upper layers. Portions of the basilar processes of the outer hair-cells remain attached here and there to the membrane at this parr. scala tympani. It increases in breadth, at first rapidly but afterwards more gradu- ally, from the base to the apex of the cochlea, while the breadth of the osseous spiral lamina diminishes. At the lowest part of the cochlea, where this membrane occupies the narrow cleft between the lamina spiralis ossea and the lamina secundaria, the breadth is only about 0-041 mm. ; but towards the apex of the cochlea it increases at the expense of the bony lamina, until, near the helicotrema, the membranous part is left almost unsupported by any plate of bone, measuring as much as 0*495 mm., or about twelve times as much as at the base (Hensen). The average measurements given by Retzius are, for the first or basal turn 0*21 mm. ; for the middle turn 0'34 mm.; and for the apical turn 0*36 mm. Its total breadth averages, according117 THE BASILAR MEMBRANE. to Retzius, 33*5 mm. The basilar membrane is usually described as showing two zones, viz., the zona arcuata, which is the part upon which the rods of Corti stand, and the zona pectinata, extending from the feet of the outer rods to the spiral liga- Fig. 133.—Basilar membrane ani> limbus viewed from above. Magnified. (Gr. Retzius.) rnent, the latter zone being somewhat thicker and much more distinctly fibrous. The proper substance of the membrane appears to be formed of a homogeneous ground-substance containing nuclei embedded in it here and there, and having straight fibres (running radially from the spiral lamina to the external spiral ligament) embedded in it, so that the membrane, especially its outer part, presents a marked striation when viewed on the sur- face (fig. 133). Externally, at its attachment to the spiral ligament, it breaks up into diverging fibres, which spread into that pro- jection. In a section of the membrane across the direction of its fibres the latter appear as fine points enclosed by the homogeneous Zona, pectinata. luitk fibres of botsUcw mem,- brajte- Feet of outer fools Nuyclei of root ceils Ijj %onoi. Osrcuata. •V of basilar l .ffiernMraATje, ■ '«*»••• • <• • - •• • ■ - -^^r^r Q0oooooooooooooooooooooooopooo"oo°0f ooggjg Forarrii/n/x. Fig. 134.—Tangential section across the zona PECTINATA OF THE BASILAR MEMBRANE OF THE guinea-pig. (Schwalbe.) Highly magnified. bcun/jn^t. ground-snbstance (fig. 134). In chemical nature they resemble elastic fibres but are rather less resistant to alkalies and most other reagents. It has been calculated by Retzius that there are altogether as many as 24,000 of these fibres in the human membrana basilaris, but they do not all run singly, some being grouped together. On the upper surface of the membrane is the epithelium which forms the organ of Corti, continued laterally by a single layer of cells (fig. 131) : a delicate cuticular layer which is seen in section is perhaps formed by this epithelium. On the under surface the membrane is covered by a layer of connective tissue (often described as part of the membrane), the fibres of which have a direction parallel with the spiral, and across that of the fibres of the membrane proper. There are numerous intermixed spindle- shaped corpuscles in this tissue, which is in continuity with the lining periosteum of the scala tympani (fig. 134). Small blood-vessels _3 found in it, but as a rule extending only over the inner part of the membrane. They are usually terminated by a rather larger longitudinally running vessel, situated opposite the outer rods of Corti, and known as the vas spvrale (fig. 136). I Tbotk-tiMe, j! projections ;t; of litribus W.-f/uucUZofcetis w of Umbws are118 THE EAR. The membrane of Reissner (fig. 129, 131, R), separates the scala vestibuli from the banal of the cochlea. It is composed of an exceedingly delicate layer of connective tissue continuous with the lining periosteum of the scala vestibuli, and is covered on the surface, which is turned to the cochlear canal with a simple pavement epithelium which is in continuity below with the epithelium of the limbus and above with that lining the outer wall of the canal. The cells have each a circular flattened nucleus, and not unfrequently contain fat-droplets. The vestibular side of the membrane of Reissner is quite smooth, and is covered with an epithelial layer of flattened connective-tissue cells, distinguishable from the epithelial cells on the other side by their greater delicacyof outline,and their larger size. A few blood-capillaries are continued into the adjacent part of the membrane from the neighbouring periosteum. Outer wall of the cochlear canal.—The periosteum which lines the scala vestibuli and scala tympani, consists of ordinary connective tissue. There is no con- bony ivall of cochlea spiral ligament II attachment of Reissner'8 membrane stria vascularis vas 'prominens — epithelium cells basilar membrane Fig. 135. — Section showing the structure of the ligamentum spirals and adjacent parts, FROM THE GUINEA-PIG'S COCHLEA. (Schwalbe.) *|2 tinuous lining of flattened cells on the free surface, such as covers the surface of serous membranes. On the other hand the periosteum which bounds the canal ofORGAN OF CORTI. 119 the cochlea externally, is much thickened by a development of retaform oomeotm tissue, and is covered by the epithelium of that tube, which here forma a singleaver of columnar cells, which contain pigment, and are prolonged by forked or aiborescen processes iuto the subjacent connective tissue. There is usually a # projection a little above the spiral ligament, containing a prominent blood-vessel (fio-s 131 135) In the tract between this prominence and the membrane ot Eeissner, the substance of the periosteum is also frequently pigmented and from containing large and numerous blood-vessels, the capillary loops of which may even project between the bases of the epithelium-cells, is termed stria vascularis. Imme- diately beneath the epithelium of the outer wall is a basement membrane through which, in section, the cell-processes above mentioned may be seen passing from the epithelium into the subjacent connective tissue. _ . The spiral ligament (fig. 131 l.sp., fig. 135) appears in section as a triangular prominence attached to the outer wall of the cochlea, with the basilar membrane prolonged from its apex. It is composed of a retiform connective tissue, many ot the celk of which have an elongated shape and radiate from the point of attachment of the basilar membrane. They have been considered by some to be muscular, but there is no distinct proof of their contractile nature. Organ of Corti.—The epithelium which covers the basilar membrane includes liuibus membrana tectoria outer hair-cells nerve fibres too v&M k*: '--"p*? i*--fi>% °- fe-.s*;; •*«*©" "6 °: - inner rod vas basilar outer cells of Deilers spirale membrane rod Fig 136 -Section through the organ of Corti of the middle turn of the human cochlea. (G. Retzius.) Highly magnified. the hio-hly-specialised structures which are known by the name of the organ of Corti&(fio- 136) The central part of this apparatus is formed by two sets of stiff, rod-like bodies—the inner and outer rods of Corti (fig. 132)—which stand upon the basilar membrane, the outer series (e.r.), at some little distance from the inner (t.r.) and are inclined towards each other, coming in contact above. In this way eacti pair of rods forms a pointed arch with slanting sides (fig. 137), and since the rods of each series are in lateral juxtaposition, the double row of inclined columns forms a tunnel (fig. 132) along the whole extent of the cochlear canal. On the inner side of the inner series of rods is a row of epithelial cells (tig. 13b), which are surmounted by a brush of fine, short, stiff hairlets, and external to the outer rods are three or four successive rows of similar but more elongated cells These cells are termed respectively the inner and outer hair-cells. The hairlets of the outer hair-cells project through apertures in a curiously formed cuticular mem- brane, termed the reticular lamina (fig. 132, l.r., 140), which covers this part ot120 THE EAR. the organ of Corti like a win net. The hairlets of the inner hair-cells are 11 Km*. lriSS]a^o?S7, ST? ndUally Sh°rter' Passes continuously into J^S Tlf^V rC1!d fibrillat6d ^mbrane-the tectorial liZTm* Lr li Ji0~whlC 118 atfcached at one ^ge to the upper surface of the SS^tTL^i C1'eSt' andfStS 0n ^ r°d8 0f Corfci and^e hair-cells, thus rnute v fhet ,T ^TV^ a ^ Ifc ^ be Pessary to describe more minutely these several parts of the organ of Corti shap^°arthouo^°r*i~ThVnn ' and.°Uter r°ds °f C°rti differ from ™e mother in shape, although agreeing, for the most part, as regards the details of their structure. Pig. 137.—A PAIR OF RODS OP CORTI, FROM Till- rabbit's cochlea, side view. (E.A.S.) Highly magnified. h h, basilar membrane ; i.r, inner rod ; e.r, outer rod. The nucleated protoplasmic masses at the feet are also shown. r0d may be best °omPared a shape to a human ulna, the upper end of the rod being pretty accurately represented by the upper extremity^ of that bone, the Fig. 138.—Teased preparation showing an inner and an odter rod r» connection with three HAIR-CELLS AND PART OF THE LAMINA RETICULARIS (FROM THE CDTNEA-PK}). (E.A.S ) Yerv highly magnified. / vhjf i.r, inner rod ; e.r, outer rod ; hx, hv h3, hair-cells of first, second, and third rows respectively They appear, especially the second and third, narrow in the middle, the Ihin edge of the riband slSd cell being here seen, but below have become accidentally twisted so that the flattened side is brought £ thl'mrl £ Spil V1ST ^n°ne is,Seen in h*> h» Probably owing t0 its beinS contained m the part of the cell the edge of which is turned towards the observer. The lower ends of all three fcell^f Hentn!* ? i" ?f ,the *P«*imen ; one of the succeeding epithelial cells iceu ot Uensen) , c, cuticular thread attached to lamina reticularis, belonging to a cell of Deiters ■ p, phalangeal process of outer rod ; pv ps, phalanges of lamina reticularis seen in section. shape of the olecranon and coronoid processes, as well as the concave articular surface between, being readily recognisable. The upper end of each of the outer rods, on theORGAN OF COHTI. 121 other hand, somewhat resembles the outline of a swan's head ; the rounded part, which represents the back of the head, fitting into the concave surface on the head of the corresponding inner rod or rods, while the part which represents the bill projects outwards and is connected with the reticular lamina, aiding to form the first series of rings for the transmission of the auditory hairlets. Both inner and outer rods are more slender about the middle of their length and expand again below, so as to rest upon the basilar membrane by a somewhat widened foot. They are distinctly striated throughout their length (fig. 138). In the head of the outer rod is an oval part free from fibres, and staining with carmine more deeply than the remainder of the rod (pseudo-nucleus). A similar, but smaller clear body, staining deeply with carmine, is seen in the head of the inner rod, and the substance of the rod in its neighbourhood has a somewhat granular appearance (fig. 138). The inner rods are more numerous than the outer ;1 they are also more closely set and touch one another along their whole length, whereas the outer rods are only in contact laterally by their heads ; finally the outer rods are in all parts longer than the inner, and in the upper turns of the cochlea considerably so. How the two sets of rods are jointed together is not very clear. It is certain that the individual rods have little, if any, independent movement; they are securely fixed below to the basilar membrane, and the heads of adjacent rods are in close contact. Basilar cells.—In connection with both inner and outer rods, there is seen a protoplasmic cell occupying the angle which the rod makes with the plane of the basilar membrane (figs. 136, 137). Sometimes these cells extend along the membrane until they come into contact, and they may, especially in young subjects, be seen to rise up and partly envelope each rod. They are usually regarded as the cells by and from which the rods have been formed. Hair-cells and cells of Deiters.—The inner hair-cells, some 3,500 in number in all, are closely applied against two or three of the corresponding rods, the cells being considerably larger in diameter than the rods. Seen from above they are oval and marked by a curved line, which is the line along which the hairlets are attached (fig. 140, i.h.) They are very like somewhat short, columnar epithelium- cells, and are prolonged below into a process (which may be branched) by which they are connected with the upper surface of the spiral lamina. Beneath them, and extending also under the gradually decreasing columnar epithelium of the spiral groove, is a layer of protoplasmic cells with large round nuclei, amongst which fine nerve-fibres appear to run in a spiral direction. Around the top of each inner hair- cell is a sort of ring of cuticular substance, which is connected with slight projections on the flattened heads of the inner rods, and perhaps represents the reticular lamina in this place. The outer hair-cells are peculiar in shape. They are cylindrical at the upper end, where they fit into the rings of the reticular lamina and bear the hairlets, but lower down they are flattened from within out, so that, in profile, they look narrow, but broader when seen on the flat (fig. 138). These cells end below with a rounded extremity (fig. 136), extending about as far as to the narrowing part of Deiters' cells. The hairlets, as with the inner cells, are about 20 in number on each cell, and spring also from a curved line on the upper surface of the cell. Beneath the hair-cells and resting by a broad base upon the basilar membrane, certain other cells are found which are known as the cells of Deiters (fig. 136). These, which are of a cylindrico- 1 According to Retzius there are altogether in the human cochlea about 5,600 of the inner rods and nearly 4,000 of the outer ones.122 THE EAR. conical shape, rest by their bases upon the basilar membrane, and each one encloses m its substance a cuticular filament which is fixed below to that membrane This filament is prolonged above in the tapering apex of the cell, between the hair-cells and m close contact with one of them, and is attached above to, or rather expands to form, one of the so-called phalanges of the reticular lamina : it is known as the phalangeal process of Deltas' cell. This cuticular filament mav probably be regarded as the equivalent of the rod of Corti, the cell of Deiters to which it belongs°being looked upon as representing the protoplasmic cell which lies at the foot of each rod ot Corti, and in the young subject encloses the rod. Hensen has described a clear oval capsule with a spiral fibre wound around it, occupying the part of the hair-cell next to the free extremity. oooupyinj, Fig- 139.—Four cells ok Deiters, from the rabbit. (Modified from G. Retzius.) Highly magnified. The phalangeal processes are shown, each expanding to form a phalanx of the reticular lamina. The varicose lines are spirally running nerve-fibrils. In most animals there are three series of outer hair- cells, but in man there are four series except in the lowermost turn (fig. 136, h) and even five and six in the upper turns of the cochlea (Pritchard) ; but where they are more numerous they tend to be somewhat irregularly placed and intermittent. There are about 12,000 outer hair-cells and 20 hairlets to each cell in the human cochlea (Retzius). The columnar cells outside the hair- cells are much elongated and obliquely disposed, but become gradually shorter and more vertical as they pass into the simple cubical epithelium on the outer part of the basilar membrane. Spaces filled with endoiymph are seen both in the inner and outer hair-cell region and communicate between the rods of Corti with the tunnel-space. The largest of these secondary spaces lies between the outer rods and the first row of outer hair-cells (Nuel). (See fig. 136.) The cells which immediately succeed the hair-cells form in some animals a distinct swelling or arch outside the hair-cell region, from which and from the basilar membrane they may be separated by a considerable space occupied by endoiymph. In the guinea-pig they contain a considerable number of fat globules in the upper turns of the cochlea They are sometimes known as the " cells of Hensen," whilst those which follow them and rest on the lateral half of the basilar membrane have been termed " cells of Claudius.1' Lamina reticularis (figs. 132, 110).—The net-like membrane which overlies the outer hair-cell region of the organ of Corti is composed of at least two rows of elongated fiddle-shaped structures termed "phalanges" which are united to one another and to the phalangeal processes of the outer rods in such a manner as to leave between them oblong apertures through which the free ends of the hair-cells with their semicircular rows of auditory hairs project. The phalanges, although they seem like rings, are in reality thin plates with thickened margins, and are to all appearance of a cuticular nature : the most external row of phalanges is in con- tinuity with a cuticular tissue which lies between the external epithelium cells. Attached to the phalanges below are the phalangeal processes of the cells of Deiters (fig. 139). The lamina varies in extent with the number of rows of hair-cells. Where there are four or more of these, a corresponding increase in the number of rows of cells of Deiters and of phalanges is observed. The phalanges serve to isolate the hair-bearing ends of the auditory cells.ORGAN OF CORTT. 123 The tectorial membrane is the last special structure which remains to be described in connection with the organ of Oorti. It arises, as before stated, on the limbus, not far from the line of origin of Eeissner's membrane (fig. 131). It overlies the projecting teeth at the edge of the limbus, and also the epithelium between them: all this part of the membrane is thin and delicate, imperceptibly Fig. 140.—View of a small part of the organ OF CORTI OF THE HUMAN COCHLEA FROM ABOVE, SHOWING THE LAMINA RETICULARIS. Much magnified. (G\ Retzius.) i.h, inner Lair-cells, the liairlets being seen in section ; i.r.h, heads of inner rods ; o.r.h, heads of outer rods ; i.r.p, " olecranon " processes of inner rods ; ph.pr, phalangeal processes of outer rods ; ph\ pli2, ph3, first, second, and third series of phalanges; A1, h\ A3, A4, first, second, third, and fourth series of outer hair-cells : //, cells of Hensen. Fig. 141.—Surface view of a small piece of THE MEMBRANA TECTORIA OF THE HUMAN cochlea. (Gr. Retzius.) l.z., limbus-zone of the membrane, showing markings caused by the cells covering the limbus ; o.z., o.z., outer zone, showing a well-marked fibrous structure ; H., stria described by Hensen in the middle of the outer zone ; /., reticular free border. shading off towards the inner edge of attachment. As the membrane projects over the crest of the limbus, it swells out below into a pad-like projection (fig. 136) which covers in and partly fills up the spiral groove, and rests below upon the rods of Corti and contiguous structures. Towards its external edge the membrane again thins out, and overlies the outer hair-cell region as a delicate film presenting a somewhat reticular appearance, as if impressed by or moulded on the subjacent structures. The thickened part of the membrane is distinctly fibrous in appearance (the fibrillation extending obliquely from within out) (fig. 141), and after immersion in weak solutions of omic acid, chromic acid, or bichromate of potash, it appears to possess considerable toughness and elasticity. From its position the hairlets borne by the hair-cells must necessarily be in contact with the under surface of this124 THE EAR. membrane. In its situation relative to the auditory epithelium it corresponds to the otolithic accumulations of the macules. Nerves of the cochlea.—The branch of the auditory nerve which goes to the cochlea ls given ofl m common with those to the saccule and the posterior ampulla, Fig. 142.—General view of the mode op dis- tribution or the cochlear nerve, all the OTHER PARTS HAVING BEEN REMOVED. (Arnold.) It is shorter, flatter, and broader than any of the other branches. It perforates the bone by groups of minute foramina at the bottom, of the internal meatus, below the opening of the Fallopian aqueduct. These groups are arranged in a shalloAv spiral furrow (tractus spiralis foraminulentus) in the centre of the base of the cochlea ; and they lead into small bony canals, which first follow the direction of the axis of the cochlea, through the modiolus, and then radiate outwards, between the plates of the the bony spiral lamina (fig. 129). In the centre of the spiral tract is a larger foramen which leads to the central canal of the modiolus. Through this foramen and canal the Fig. 143.—Distribution of the cooh LEAR NERVES IN THE SPIRAL LAMINA. (After Henle.) This figure shows part of the modiolus and .spiral lamina, viewed from the base, showing the plexiform arrangement of the cochlear nerves ; 1, filaments of the nerve issuing from the tractus spiralis foramimi- lentus ; 2, branches of the nerve entering the central canal of the modiolus ; 3, wide plexus in the bony lamina spiralis ; 4, close plexus at its border. Fig. 144.—Part of the nerves ex- tracted AND MORE HIGHLY MAGNI- FIED. 2, twigs of the nerve from the modiolus close to the lamina spiralis ossea; gs, spiral ganglion ; fs, nerve- fibres running spirally along the outer part of the ganglionic swelling 3, wide plexus ; 4, close plexus of nerve-fibres as in fig. 143. filaments for the last half-turn of the spiral lamina are conducted ; whilst the first two turns are supplied by the filaments which occupy the smaller foramina and bent canals, i^ear the root of the spiral lamina the nerve-fibres pass outwards through a spirally wound ganglionic cord {ganglion spifale), situated in the special bony canal {spiral canal of the modiolus)already mentioned. The cells of this ganglion are bipolar and each nerve-fibre appears to have one of the cells interpolated in its course. From the outer side of the ganglion, the fibres, having resumed their medullary sheath, pass onwards with a plexiform arrangement, at first in distinct but anastomosing cords (fig. 144, 3),NERVES OP COCHLEA. contained in separate canals in the bony lamina, but afterwards spreading out into a stratum of intermingling fibres, to be again gathered up, near the edge ,.ve fftres Inner rod vas basilar outer cells of Betters spirale membrane rod Fi« 145—Section through the organ of Corti op the middle turn op the human cochlea. (Gr. Eetzius.) Highly magnified. of the osseous lamina, into conical bundles which turn abruptly upwards, and passing through the elongated apertures previously described (p. 112 and fig. 132, p), Fig. 146.—Ending op nerve-pibres in the cochlea, shown by Golgi's method. {Gr. oJl' Eetzius.) Much magnified. g, a cell of the spiral ganglion ; i.h., inner i.h, hair-cells; o.h., outer hair-cells, with the nerve-fibres running spirally between the cells. lose their medullary sheath, and enter the epithelium in the region of the inner hair-cells (fig. 145). Some of the nerve-fibres appear to end here by ramifying with a spiral course amongst the bases of the inner hair-cells, but others are continued as fine threads between the inner rods, and form a second spiral band close to the outer- side of these and in contact with the protoplasmic cell which ensheaths them. Other fibres may be seen in sections to pass across the tunnel of Corti between the rods and to enter the region of the outer hair-cells. Here the fibres, which now again branch and alter their direc- tion, run spirally parallel with the successive series of hair-cells. They rest against the corresponding cells of Deiters, and in man form a bunch of spirally-running fibres immediately below the expanded part of each hair-cell (fig. 145). They form, therefore, altogether five or six spiral strands of fibrils, which lie between the epithelium-cells of the organ126 THE EAII. of Corti. In most animals they are less grouped together and more distributed along the length of each cell of Deiters (fig. 139), but with the same spiral arrange- ment ami in the same relative position. Vessels of the cochlea.—The branches of the internal auditory artery to the cochlea, twelve or fourteen in number, arising at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, traverse small canals in the modiolus and bony lamina spiralis, and also pass to the outer wall of the cochlea, forming at the root of the septum, between the turns of the cochlear tube a spirally-arranged glomerulus-like arterial plexus, which sends vessels to the subjacent stria vascularis and to the periosteum lining the adjacent scalue (Schwalbe). From this plexus offsets are distributed in the form of a fine network on the periosteum, but the vessels do not anastomose across the membrana basilaris. The bony cochlea also receives through the fenestra rotunda a twig from the stylomastoid branch of the occipital artery. The veins of the cochlea issue from the grooves of the cochlear axis, and join the veins of the vestibule and semicircular canals at the base of the modiolus. A small sinUs-like vein passes through the aqueductus cochlese, from the lowermost turn of the cochlear tube, and joins the commencement of the internal jugular vein. Development of the organ of Corti.—The organ of Corti is at first com- posed of columnar epithelium-cells forming part of the layer of epithelium which membrana inner teetoria hair-cell outer hair-cells inner rod vas spirale outer rod Figs. 147 and 148.—Two stages in the development of the organ of Corti of the cat. (Q-. Ketzius.) r In the preparation represented in fig. 147 the hair-cells are differentiated ; in that shown in fit:. ] IS the rods of Corti are also beginning to bo formed, and the nerve-fibres have reached the organ of Corti, and are already mnning spirally below the hair-cells. lines the whole of the membranous labyrinth. After a time certain of these cells begin to be differentiated and become distinguishable from the rest as the inner and127 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGAN OF CORTI. outer hair-cells. Subsequently the rods of Corti become formed by a transformation of the protoplasm of other of these columnar cells, and the cells of Deiters also begin to appear. In the meantime the epithelium of the vascular stria which was at first similar to that of the rest of the canal becomes pigmented and vascularized, and the remaining epithelium of the cochlear canal is also gradually acquiring the form and character by which its various parts are distinguished. The membrana tectoria appears to be formed as a cuticular deposit or secretion from the epithelial cells of the limbus, upon which, even at a comparatively early stage of development, it may be seen to lie. Measurements of some of the parts of the cochlea.—The following numbers (from Retzius) show the average dimensions of various parts of the human cochlea, and represent the size in micromillimeters. Cochlear canal, breadth, basal turn . „ „ middle „ ,, ,, apical „ „ extreme length Eeissner's membrane, breadth, basal turn „ . ;, middle „ „ „ „ apical „ Limbus laminas spiralis, breadth, basal turn . middle „ „ „ „ „ apical „ . Eods of Corti, space between attachment of feet, basal turn ,, middle „ 55 55 55 55 .0-04-8 0-06' 5, apical height of arch, basal turn . „ „ middle „ „ „ apical „ . length of inner rods length of outer rods . Hair-cells, length of inner „ „ length of outer .... „ „ length of hairlets Membrana tectoria, breadth .... „ „ extreme thickness ... Basilar membrane, breadth from habenula perforata to lig. spirale, basal turn „ middle „ „ apical „ breadth from habenula perforata to feet of outer rods, basal turn „ „ middle „ apical „ 0-45 0-77 0-80 35-00 0'81 0-88 0-85 0-24 0-23 0-22 0-048 0-081 0-09 0-028 0-045 0-049 -0-07 -o-i 0-018—0-024 0-03—0-04 . 0-005 0-28—0-34 . 0-025 0-21 55 55 55 55 0-34 0-36 0-075 0-12 0-126 RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EAR. Altzheimer, A., Ueber die Olirensclimcdzdriisen, Wlirzburg, 1888. Ayers Howard, Die Membrana tectoria—was sie ist, und die Membrana basilans—was sic xerriehtet, Anatomi8cher Anzeiger, vi. 1891 ; Ueber das peripherische Vcrhalten dcr (,<hbrnerven, Anat. Anz., 1893. „ ... +0{j. Baginsky, Gk, Zur Entwickl. dcr GcUrschneche, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxvni. lb»t>. Barth, A., Beitrctge zwr Avatomie des Ohres, Zeitschrift fiir Ohrenhoilkundo, Band xvn. ; I eber die Darstellunrj des h&utvjen Labyrmthee, Arcl.iv fiir Anatomie und Pl.ysiologie, Physiol. Abt., Jain-. 1889 ; Beilruy zur Anatomie dcr ticknccke, Anatomischer Anzeiger, iv. 1889.128 RECENT LITERATURE OF THE EAR. ?!SS?f ?"y Jlj;c]V'chc*mr l'"J>P«reil auditif clicz les mammifires, Journal de l'anat,, 1893 Beitelli, D., Contribution d la structure de la couche moyenno de la membrane t,,mpanic,uc che- lecobayc, Archives ltalionncs do biologic, xvi. 1891. ' y^««y«t uic~ JJand I?61"' Dt'S M°rdl>chc 0kr' Mne P^hiatrisch-anthropologische Htudie, Archiv fur Psychiatrie, M};^s^i";;eSk3,rscki•K- Da°GMt ™Mer «*»*»*^ N^f™^' S'' OUermtionii "" ""' tocography of the normal human tympanum, Arch. OtoL, Bulle, Hermann Beitrage zur Anatomic des Ohres, Archiv fiir mikroskop. Anatomie, Band xxix Burkner, Kurd, Atlas von Belcuchtungsbildern des Trommelsfells 1890 Chiarugi G /* tubercolo di Darwin ela direzione dei peU net'padigUone deWorecehio vmorno, BOllett. (I. i. acc. d. nsiocnt. di Siena, anno vi. 1888. Cog-g-i, Alexander, Ueber die sag KalTcsdchchen an den Spimlganglien des Frosehes md ihn Vezie/iungen zum Ductus endolymphaticus, Anatomischer Anzeiger, v. 1890 Draispul Zur Entwichelungsgeschichte des Hammer-Amb'os-Gelentes ; Ueber die Membrane 1890 Trommdfelles, Verhandlungen des x. internationalen medicinischen Kongresses zu Berlin, Bd y^TsjS8' BCUr' ** EntwkhluwJ*9esch- des Mitlelohres u. des TrommelfeUes, Morph. Arbciten, mS^A °f,Ta1^. A™t0™sc71? VMersuchungen uber die Wege des Blutstromes im menscMkhtn Ohrlabynnth, Abhandl. d. math.-phys. Kl. d. kgl. Sachs. Ges. d. Wiss., No. v. 1892 Ellis, H. H., The ear in criminals, The Lancet, 1890. Eng-elmann, Th. W., Ueber die Function der Otolithen, Zoolog. Anzeiger, Jahrg x Nr <>rj8 Fick, A., Betrachtungen uber den Mechanismus des Paukenfells, Archiv fur Ohrenheilkunde Band xxiv. ; and Wurzb. Verhandl. xx. 1886. Fischer Perdinand, Ueber das Epithet und die Drusen der Ohrtrompete und Paukenhbhlc Inaug. -Dissert., Kostock, 1889. , ^afde P% ^vriekeUng der Ohrmuschcl beim Memchen und bei den Saugethieren, Zeit- schrilt fur Ohrenheilkunde, Band xix. ; Die Formcntioickclung der Ohrmuschcl mit Ruckskht auf die Morphologic unci Teratologic dersclbcn, Centralblatt fiir die medicin. Wissenschaften, 1888 • Beit, zur Morphologie des Anthelix der mcnschlichcn Ohrmuschel, Zeitschriftfiir Ohrenheilkuiide Band xxi 1891 ; A contribution to the morphology of the human auricle, New York, 1891 ; Missbildunaen der Ohrmuschel, Arch. f. Ohrenheilkunde, Bd. xxxiv., 1893. ioc?aSSe' °"' Ue'd' Gef 11886 in d- lamina spiralis membranacea des Gehbrorgancs, Anat. Anzeiger i. 1886. & ' ioo?iS' Wilhelm' Zur Anatomic des Ohrldppchens, Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtle. 1889. ' 189?aiSer' 0tt°' ^ Epitliel dcr Cristae und Maculae acusticae, Archiv fiir Ohrenheilkunde, xrii., Katz, L., Beitrag zur Frage uber die Vcrbindung der Corti'schcn und Deiter schen Zcllen des Corti schen Organes und deren Gcstalt, Monatsschrift fiir Ohrenheilkunde, Jahr« 1888 • Ueber die Epithelgcbilde des Corti'schen Organes, Archiv fiir Ohrenheilkunde, Band xxvii. ; Ueber die Endigung des Nervus Cochleae im Corti'schen Organ, Zeitschrift fiir Ohrenheilkunde, Band xxix, 1889-90 - Eistdogisches ueber den Schneckenkanal, speziell die Stria vascularis, mit Demonstration mikro- skojnsche Prdparate, Verhandlungen des x. internationalen medicinischen Kongresses zu Berlin 1890 ; and Archiv fiir Ohrenheilkunde, Band xxxi., 1890 ; Ueber cinigc Streitpunktc in dcr Histologic des Gehorgangcs, Verhandlungen des x. internat. medic. Kongresses, Berlin, 1890 ; Mikrophoto- graphischcr Atlas der normalcn und pathologischen Anatomic des Ohrcs, Berlin, 1891, 1892. Kirchner, W., Ueber Divertikclbildung in der Tuba Eustachii des Menschen, Festschrift zu von Krilliker s 70. Geburtstage. Kostanecki, C, Die pharyngcalc Tubenmundung und ihr Verhaltn iss zum Nasenrachenravvi Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, Band xxix. Larsen, P. C, Ein anatomisch-physiohgischcr Beitrag zur Lchrc von den Ossicula auditus Anatomischer Anzeiger, v. 1890. Lenhossek, M., Die Nervcncndigungen im Gehbrorgans, Verhandl. d. anat. Gescllschaft, Anat. Anz., viii., 1893; Die Nervenendigunyen in den Macula, u. Crista: acuslicce, Anat. Hefte. ix., 1S93. Linsmayer, L., Ein Fall von Verknbcherung der Ohrmuscheln, Wiener klinische Wochenschrift, 1889. Niemack, J., Macula: u. Crista acusticce mit Ehrlich's Methylcnblaumcthodc, Anatom. Hefte, 1892. Prenant, A., Rechcrches sur la paroi externe du limacon des mammifdres et specialement sur la strie vasculaire, Internationale Monatsschrift fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, ix. 1S92. Randall, B. A., and Morse, H. L., Photographic illustrations of the anatomy of the human ear, together with pathological conditions of the drum membrane and descriptive text, Philadelphia 1887. Rauber, Ueber d. Bern des Gchbrlabyrinthes, Sitzungsb. d. natiirf. Gesellsch. z. Leipzig, xii. 1886. Retzius, a., Das Gehbrorgan der Wirbelthierc, Stockholm, 1884 ; and in Biolog. Unters., vols, iii. & v., 1892 & 1893.EECENT LITEEATUEE OF THE EAE. 129 Riidinger, N., Ueber die Abflusskandle der Endolymphe dcs innercn Ohres, Sitzungsbcr. d. k. bayer. Akad.,' 1S87 ; Zur Andtomie und Entwickelung dcs inncren Ohres, Monatsschrift ftir Okrenheilkund'e, xxii. 1888 ; Ueber die Beziehung der Ncurocpithclstellen der beiden Sdckchen zu den Sohcdl-leitungswegen im Labyrinth, Miinehener medizin. Wockensckrift, xxxv. 1888 ; Zur Entwickelung da- hdutigen Bogengiinge des inncren Ohres, Sitzungsberickte der mathem.-physikal. Klasse der k. b. Akademie der Wissensch. zu Miinchen, 1888 ; Ueber die Deckmembran der Maculae acusticae der Sdvkchen des hdutigen Labyrinths, Sitzungsberichte der Gesellschaft fur Morpbologie u. Pkysiologie in Miinchen, v. 1889. Scbaeffer, O., Ucb. d. foetale Ohrentivickelung, die, Arch. f. Anthrop., xxi., 1892. Schwalbe, Gr., Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss d. Circidationsverhdltnisse in der Gehorschnecke, Ludwig- Fesfcsclirift, 1886 ; Lehrbuch der Anatomic, der Sinncsorgaue, Erlangen, 1887 ; Ueber dieyergleichende Anatomic u. Entwickelungsgcschichte des Ohrknorpels, Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift, Jahrg. xv. 1889; Inwiefern ist die menschliche Ohrmuschel ein rudimentdres Organ 1 Archiv f. Anatomie u. Physiol., Anatom. Abt., 1889 ; Das Darwin'sche Spitzohr, &c, Anat. Anzeiger, iv., 1889 ; and Arch, f. Psychiatrie, xxi., 1889 ; Ueber Auricxdarhbcker bei Reptilien, ein Beitrag zur Phylogcnic des dussercn Ohres, Anatomischer Anzeiger, vi. 1891 ; Beitragc zur Anthropologic des Ohres, Festschrift f. Virchow, Bd. i. Schroeder, J. K., Unters. it. d. Blutgefdss-system des dusscren Ohres, Jena, 1893. Siebenmarm, Friedrich, Die Korrosions-Anatomic des knbehernen Labyrinthes des mcnsclilichen Ohres, Wiesbaden. Steinbriigge, H., On the Cupula-formations in the human labyrinth, Arch, of Otology, New York, xvi. 1887 ; Ueber d. Verhalten d. menschl. Ductus cochlearis im Verhofblindsaek, Anat. Hefte, 1893. Symington, J., The external auditory meatus in the child, Journal of Anatomy, xix., 1885 ; Demonstration of auditory air-passages, Journal of Anatomy, vol. xxiii. 1888. Tartaroff, Dimitry, Ueber die Muskeln der Ohrmuschel und einige Besonderheiten des Ohr- knorpels, Archiv fiir Anatomie u. Physiologie, Anatom. Abt., 1887. "Voltolini, Ue. d. Gchbrzdhne der Schnecke des Menschen u. der Sdugethicre u. deren Gefdsse, Arch. f. path. Anat., Bd. civ., 1886. Zuckerkandl, E., Beitr. zur vergl. Anatomie cl. Ohrtrompete, Arch. f. Ohrenheilkunde, xxiii. 1886. VOL. III., ST. 3. ECTHE NOSE. The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell. It has also other functions to fulfil:—for, communicating freely with the cavities of the mouth and lungs, it is concerned in respiration, voice, and taste ; and by means of its muscles it assists in expression. The nose forms a prominence composed of bone and hyaline cartilage with certain muscles, and a general covering of integument. At its lower extremity or base the nostrils (anterior nares) open downwards. Its upper end is the root, the rounded or flattened ridge along its middle is termed the dorsum, and this ends below in the point of the nose. The upper or bony part of the dorsum is often spoken of as the bridge; it frequently forms an angle with the cartilaginous part (aquiline type). The root springs from below the glabella of the frontal bone, with which it usually forms a more or less marked angle, so that the nose appears to spring from a well-marked groove : if this groove is absent, and the line of the dorsum is continuous with the plane of the forehead, the Grecian type of nose is produced. The sides of the nose, which form an open angle (naso-facial angh) with the general anterior surface of the face, diverge from the dorsum at an increasing angle as we trace them down from the root; the nose is therefore broadest below at the nostrils. This lowest part of the lateral wall is slightly bulged outwards, and is separated from the rest by a slight groove ; it is known as the ala of the nose, and is mobile, its form being capable of alteration by the action of certain muscles, which thereby dilate or contract the nostrils. A median parti- tion (sep/um nasi) divides the interior of the nose into two approximately equal parts, the right and left nasal fossa,. These open above and behind into the pharynx by the posterior nares (choanse), and below on to the exterior by the anterior nares. The septum is composed of bone and cartilage in the greater part of its extent, but at its lower end it is formed only of integument and connective tissue (septum mobile, or columna nasi). This part of the septum forms the mesial boundary or separation between the anterior nares ; in the rest of their extent they are bounded by the curved free margin of the ake. From the development and complexity of the nasal fossa? and olfactory lobes of the cerebrum mammals are divided by Turner into the three subdivisions of tnacrosmatics, including rodents, carnivora, marsupials, and most mammals; viidromatios, including man and most primates, monotremes, and some cetacea ; and anosmatics, including certain cetacea {e.g., porpoise). t The nasal fossse communicate with hollows in the neighbouring bones (ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and superior maxillary). The skin of the nose is studded, particularly in the grooves of the alse or outer walls of the nostrils, with numerous small openings, which lead to sebaceous follicles. Within the margin of the nostrils are a number of short, stiff, and slightly curved hairs—vibrissa—which grow from the inner surface of the alas and septum nasi. As is well known the nose presents great variety in size and shape in different individuals. Into most of these it is unnecessary here to enter, but there is one kind of variation which is of considerable anthropological importance, viz., the extent of lateral expansion of the anterior nares as compared with the131 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. total length of the organ. This relationship is expressed by the cephalometric nasal index ( greatest breadth x 100 \ Tfc .fl found fchat in the whifce raceg of man. Vlength measured vertically/ kind the nasal index is below 70 ; in the black races (African, Australasian) it is 85 and upwards : in the yellow races (Asiatic, American-Indians, Eskimo) from 70 to 85 (Topinard). The blood-vessels of the outer nose are branches of the ophthalmic and facial. The lymphatics pass to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The sensory nerves are branches of the first and second divisions of the fifth, and the motor nerves are derived from the facial. All of these have been already noticed in previous parts of this work. CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. These are the chief support of the outer part of the organ. They occupy the triangular interval seen in front of the nasal cavity in the dried skull (anterior nasal bone upper lateral cartilage cartilage of aperture, _j lateral crus cartilage of aperture, _ mesial crus minor cartilages Jvr— subcutaneous tissue of ala Fig. 149.—Lateral view of the cartilages op the nose. (Modified from Arnold.) nasal aperture), and assist in forming the septum between the nasal fossse. There are two large cartilages, one on each side, partly enclosing the aperture of the anterior nares, and known as the cartilages of the aperture or lower lateral cartilages, and one winged median cartilage which forms part of the septum nasi, and spreads externally and superiorly into two large flattened expansions which are commonly known as the upper lateral cartilages, and may conveniently be described separately, although part of the cartilage of the septum. The upper lateral cartilages (figs. 149 and 150) are situated in the middle part of the projecting portion of the nose, immediately below the free margin of the nasal bones. Each is flattened and triangular in shape, with one surface looking outwards, and the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. The anterior margin, K 2THE NOSE. 182 thicker than the posterior, is united with the edge of the cartilage of the septum above, but is separated therefrom by a small fissure below. The posterior edge is closely attached to the free margins of the upper maxilla and of the nasal bone, and the inferior margin is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower lateral Fig. 1.00.—Fkokt vikw ok the .: ,.''*> ': • CARTILAGES OK THE NOSE. (Modified from Arnold.) cartilage ; and there are often small portions of cartilnge (cartilagines opacities) lying in the fibrous tissue in this situa- tion. The lower lateral cartilages or cartilages of the aperture (figs. 14!), 150, 151) are thinner than the preceding, below which they are placed, and are characterised by their peculiar curved form. Each consists of an elongated plate, so bent upon itself as to pass in front and on each side of the nostril to which it belongs, and by this arrangement serve to keep it open. The outer portion is somewhat oval and flattened, or irregularly con- vex externally. Behind, it is attached to the margin of the upper maxilla by tough fibrous membrane, enclosed m which there is usually to be met with either a prolongation backwards of the posterior angle of the cartilage, or two or three separate cartilaginous nodules (cartilag. minores vel quadrate) (figs. 149, 150); above, it is fixed, also by fibrous membrane, to the upper lateral cartilage, and to the lower and fore part of the nasal bone cartilage of septum 11 • upper lateral cartilages minor cartilages cartilage of aperture :- subcutaneous tissue of ala cartilage of aperture minor cartilage - cartilage of septum — minor cartilage - cartilage of Jacobson - subcutaneous tissue Fig. 151.—View ok the cartilages ok the nose kroji below. (Modified from Arnold.) cartilage of the septum. Towards the middle line it is curved back- wards (fig. 151), bounding a deep median groove, at the bottom of which it meets with its fellow of the opposite side, and continues to pass backwards, lying in the upper part of the columna nasi, below the level of the cartilage of the septum. This inner part of the cartilage of the aperture is thick and narrow, curls outwards, and ends in a free rounded margin which projects outwards. The ala of the hose, like the lobule of the ear, is formed of thickened skin with subjacent tissue, and is unsupported by cartilage. The cartilage of the septum (fig. 152) is quadrilateral in form, and is thicker at the edges than near the centre. It is placed nearly vertically in the median plane of the nose, but often with an inclination to one or other side, and completes, at the133 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. fore part, the separation between the nasal fossa?. The anterior margin of the cartilage, thickest above, is firmly attached to the back of the nasal bones near their line of junction ; and below this it lies successively between the upper and the lower lateral cartilages, united with the former, which constitute its ate, and connected loosely by fibrous tissue with the latter. The posterior margin is fixed to the lower and fore part of the central plate of the ethmoid bone (e) ; and the lower margin is received into the groove of the vomer (v), and rests anteriorly on the incisor crest of the superior maxilte. This cartilage is the persistent anterior extremity of the primordial cartilaginous lamina ethmovomerine suture pendicular } J i i ! sinus of sphenoid v proc. post, cart, septi palate cartilage of septum cartilage of aperture cartilage of Jacobson Fig. 152.—Osseous and cartilaginous septum of the nose, seen from the side. (Arnold.) cranium. In young subjects it is prolonged back to the body of the pre-sphenoid bone ; and in many adults an irregular thin band remains between the vomer and the central plate of the ethmoid (processus posterior s. sphenoidalis, fig. 152). The vomerine cartilages (Huschke) or cartilages of Jacobson, are two small longitudinal strips of cartilage which lie along the lower border of the cartilage of the septum, attached to the vomer. They are not always distinct from the cartilage of the septum and are relatively better developed in the embryo and in many of the lower mammals conformably with the greater extent of development of the organ of Jacobson (see p. 143), which, in some animals, they partly enclose. NASAL FOSSAE. The nasal fossae are, as already stated, the cavities which occupy the interior of the nose and effect a communication between the exterior and the pharynx. They have been described in Vol. II. as they exist in the skeleton, but they are much narrower in the living condition owing to the thickness and vascularity of the lining membrane, which also covers over many of the apertures seen in the macerated131 THE NOSE. Least coronal measurement (near roof) . . . . . . . 2 5 mm. bone. Those differences are well exemplified by comparing fig. 153, which represents the lateral wall of the left nasal fossa in the macerated condition with fig. 154, which shows the right nasal fossa as it appears when still covered by mncous membrane. In (coronal) section each nasal fossa is irregularly triangular in shape, the apex of the triangle being formed by the roof of the fossa, and the base by the floor. Towards the apex the triangle is quite narrow, but about halfway towards its base, i.e., immediately below the free edge of the middle turbinal (see below), each fossa expands, so that this lower part is nearly quadri- lateral in coronal section (fig. 150) ; this is the respiratory part.- the upper narrow part is the olfactory part of the fossa or olfactory cleft. The mesial wall and floor of each fossa is smooth, but the lateral wall is complicated by a series of lamellar Fig. 153.—View of the lateral wall op the left nasal fossa as it appears in the macerated skeleton. (Modified from Arnold.) prominences running in a sagittal direction and projecting into the cavity ; these prominences, which are formed by the turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone and by the inferior turbinate bone covered by mucous membrane, may be termed the turbinate bodies, or simply turbinals (concha). The following: are the average dimensions of the nasal fossa} (Thane) :— Greatest vertical measurement (at fore part of cribriform plate) . . 44 mm. Greatest sagittal measurement (along floor, from posterior margin of hard palate to anterior extremity of roof) 73 mm. Sagittal measurement of osseous part of floor . . . . .44 mm. Least sagittal measurement (close below cribriform plate) . . . 36 mm. Greatest coronal measurement (near floor) . . . . . .16 mm.135 THE NASAL FOSSAE. The turbinals on the lateral wall of each fossa are usually described as three in number viz two on the lateral mass of the ethmoid, which are known as the superior and middle turbinals (superior and inferior ethmoidal conchy) and one the inferior turbinal, on the superior maxillary bone (maxillary concha). Jiach concha overhangs and partially separates from the general cavity of the fossa a crroove-like space, which is known as the corresponding meatus (superior, middle, or 9 - 5 4 3 2 I Fig. 154.—View op the right nasal fossa as seen in a section through the skull, taken just °* ' TO THE RIGHT OF THE SEPTUM. (E. A. S.) 1 incisor canal ; 2, bone of hard palate ; 3 and 4, parts of the mesial cms of the cartilage of the aperture- 5, anterior part of the same cartilage; 6, cartilage of the septum ; 7, groove leading to middle meatus ; 8, agger nasi; 9, frontal sinus ; 10, inferior ethmoidal concha ; 11 superior ethmoidal concha - 12, recess of upper meatus above superior concha; 13, entrance to sphenoidal sinus ; 14, pituitary fossa; 15, sphenoidal sinus; 16, inferior turbinal (maxillary concha) ; 17, rod passed into Eustachian tube ; 18, salpingopharyngeal fold : immediately behind this is the lateral recess of the pharynx, not specially indicated in the drawing ; 19, soft palate ; 20, uvula ; 21, tongue. inferior, as the case may be). The groove of the superior meatus between the superior and middle conchae is also termed the ethmoidal fissure. This meatus is relatively small, corresponding with the small size and extent of its overhanging concha : into it the posterior ethmoidal cells open, by one or two apertures (fig. 155). The middle turbinal or concha is large, and overhangs a correspondingly large middle meatus, which can only be properly seen on cutting away the concha (fig. 155). It is then found that the meatus extends under the anterior part of the turbinal into a gradually narrowing funnel-shaped diverticulum (infundibulum) which leads136 THE NOSE. directly upwards into the frontal sinus, and that the lateral wall of this meatus is turther marked by a deep curvilinear depression (hiatus semilunaris, Zuckerkandl) extending from behind and below upwards and forwards towards the infundibulum Into the deepest part of this depression the anterior ethmoidal cells and the mmtilmi antrum open, often by a common orifice , sometimes the antrum has a second orifice rather lower down in the hiatus. Immediately above and behind the hiatus semi- antr. Fig. 155.—Sketch showing the position op the orifices op the air-cells and of other PASSAGES LEADING INTO THE NASAL FOSSJE (E. A. S.). The middle and inferior turbinals are cut away as much as is necessary to expose the orifices. sph ethm., -probe passed from the sphenoethmoidal recess into the sphenoidal sinus, sph.sin. : postethm. .aperturesat the posterior ethmoidal cells beneath the superior ethmoidal concha ; mid.ethm apertures of the middle ethmoidal cells beneath the midddle (inferior ethmoidal) concha, and just above the ethmoidal bulla ethm.b ; ant.cthm., aperture of the anterior ethmoidal cells in the hiatus senii- unans h.s., immediately below the ethmoidal bulla ; antr., aperture of the maxillary antrum also in the hiatus, and close to those of the anterior ethmoidal cells but concealed by the uncinate process pr.unc. ■ antr. an accessory orifice to the antrum, sometimes present in the lower part of the hiatus semilunaris ; mfund., infundibulum leading to the aperture of the frontal sinus, fr.sin. (through which a probe is passed) ■ nd., orifice of nasal duct, beneath the inferior turbinal ; ag.n., agger nasi : Fai t Eustachian tube ; f.R., lateral recess of pharynx (fossa of Rosenmuller). lunaris and below the attachment of the concha is an oval prominence of the lateral wall which is often very strongly marked. This is the ethmoidal bulla of Zucker- kandl, and above or upon it are the apertures of the middle ethmoidal cells (fig. 155). The ethmoidal bulla has been held to be a rudiment of an additional ethmoidal concha which is well developed in macrosmatic mammals; but this opinion, although it seemed a probable one, is not supported by the most recent researches. Zuckerkandl has shown that there is frequently present, especially in the foetus and child a second ethmoidal fissure parallel to and above the principal fissure. This second fissure separates off the lower part of the superior ethmoidal concha as a middle ethmoidal conchaTHE NASA.L FOSSAE. J 37 There may also be found a third parallel fissure above the second fissure, effecting a further separation of the upper concha, so that in these cases there are four distinct conchas on the ethmoid bone alone, viz., suprema, superior, media, and inferior (besides the lowermost or maxillary concha). This condition represents one which is met with m macrosmatic mam- mals in a much more developed form. The most common condition, however, in man, accordino- to Zuckerkandl, is that with three ethmoidal conchas, but the middle one, when present is frequently hidden beneath the superior concha, and thus often escapes observation. Hence the usual description of the ethmoidal conchas as superior and inferior only, the inferior being- the one which is spoken of above as the middle turbinal. 16 AS Fig. 156.—Coronal section op the nasai fossje seen fkom behind. The section passes THROUGH THE LAST MOLAR TEETH. (Testut.) 1, septum nasi ; 2, superior turbinal ; 3, middle turbinal ; 4, inferior turbinal ; 5, posterior ethmoidal cells opening at 5' (on the right side) into the superior meatus ; 6, maxillary antrum, opening at 6' into the middle meatus : the head of the arrow is in the hiatus semilunaris ; 7, bulla ethmoidalis ; 8, frontal sinuses ; 9, crista galli; 9', falx cerebri ; 10, cerebral hemispheres ; 11, right orbit containing the globe of the eye (surrounded by orbital fat) and its muscles ; 12, great wing of si.henoid ; 13, spheno-maxillary fissure ; 14, fatty tissue of zygomatic fossa ; 15, buccinator muscle ; 16, last molar tooth ; 17, vault of palate ; 18, zygoma ; 19, left orbit. Besides the ethmoidal fissures which separate the conchas from one another, the superior turbinal is often marked by a distinct groove at its posterior part, which leads backwards into the spheno-ethmoidal recess (fig. 154). The superior and middle turbinals are conjoined in front and may be said to spring from the cribriform plate, through which pass the branches of the olfactory nerve. Their free edges slope downwards and backwards, that of the middle turbinal gradually becoming nearly horizontal. The lower margins of both, covered by thick raucous membrane, are free and overhang respectively the superior and middle meatus ; the middle turbinal has also a nearly vertical free border anteriorly, which, together with the adjoining part of the concha, forms an operculum covering the corresponding part of the middle meatus, and concealing138 THE NOSE. the bulla ethmoidalis, the hiatus semilunaris, and the apertures of the air-cells which open into this meatus. The middle meatus, which lies beneath the middle turbinal, is roughly triangular m shape, with the base of the triangle directed forwards. It expands in front of the middle turbinal into a nearly smooth-walled chamber winch communicates through the vestibule with the anterior nares ; thin chamber is known as the atrium of the middle meatus. On the outer wall above the atrium a low ridge (figs. L54, 155) may usually be detected passing downwards and forwards from the anterior attachment of the middle turbinal. This ridge {agger nasi of H. Meyer), which is seen also in the macerated bone (fig. 153), is the rudiment of a well-developed turbinal (naso turbinal), which is met with in most mammals (Schwalbe). It is usually better marked in the foetus and new-born child, in which it is seen to be continued below and behind into the uncinate process of the ethmoid, which forms the lower and anterior boundary of the hiatus semilunaris (Seydel). The groove above the agger nasi leads to the olfactory part of the nose, and is termed sulcus olfactorius. In the lower meatus, which lies between the inferior turbinal and the floor of the fossa, is the inferior orifice of the nasal duct which is defended by one or two folds of membrane : when there are two, the folds are often adapted so accurately together as to prevent air from passing up from the cavity of the nose to the lachrymal sac. The roof of the nasal fossa is divided into three parts, viz.: nasal, in front; ethmoidal, in the middle, and sphenoidal, behind, corresponding with the bones of the same name. The roof is at the front formed only by the conjunction of the septum and lateral walls, and is quite narrow, but it is broader near the choanse. Above and behind the upper turbinal is a diverticulum of the nasal fossa, the sphenoethmoidal recess, which communicates posteriorly with the sphenoidal sinus (fig. 154). The floor of the fossa is broader than the roof. In it in front is the incisor foramen, but this is in the recent state generally closed (fig. 154). Some- times, however, a narrow funnel-shaped tube of mucous membrane (nasopalatine canal, canal of Stensen, or canalis incisivus) passes obliquely downwards from each nasal fossa for a short distance towards the front of the hard palate. Vesahus, Stensen, and Santorini believed that these tubes of membrane opened generally into the roof of the mouth by small apertures close behind the central incisor teeth. Haller, Scarpa, and Jacobson found the canals iu man usually closed, and often difficult of detection, and these statements have been confirmed by most modern investigators. The canal is a remnant of the wide communication between the nasal and buccal cavities found at an early period of foetal life, being in man usually obliterated, at least in its lower part, before birth, although persistent in many animals. It is long represented below by a solid column of epithelium cells continuous with the epithelium of the palate, and above by a narrow tube hned with ciliated epithelium, opening into the floor of the nasal fossa but closed below. The part of the inferior meatus which lies behind the incisor canal, together with the space immediately behind the posterior end of the superior and middle turbinals as far back as the orifice of the Eustachian tube, belongs to the primitive buccal cavity of the foetus, having become separated from the permanent mouth by the growth of the palate (see Vol. I., p. 97). It is known as the naso-pharyngeal part (ductus naso-pharyngeus), and its mucous membrane is marked off behind from that of the pharynx by a prominence which is termed the naso-ptoryngcal fold. The anterior and lowermost part of the nasal cavity is termed the vestibule (fig. 157). This is bounded laterally by and corresponds in extent with the ala and the cartilage of the aperture. It is lined by skin and is furnished with hairs and with sebaceous and sudoriferous glands. The hairs are large and numerous just within the orifice of the anterior nares (vibrissae), but over the rest of the vestibule139 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NASAL FOSSAE. they are small and thinly scattered, and both the hairs and glands are absent near the posterior limit of the vestibule, which is marked off by a curved prominence (limen vestibuli) from the nasal fossae proper. At this line the stratified epithelium of the vestibule passes into the ciliated epithelium of the fossa?, and the cutaneous glands are replaced by compound mucous glands. At the front of the vestibule, enclosed by the curved cartilage of the aperture, is a shallow cul-de-sac known as the ven tricle of the nares. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The pituitary or Schneiderian membrane, which lines the cavities of the nose, is a highly vascular mucous membrane, inseparably united with the periosteum and perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the nostrils; with the mucous membrane of the pharynx through the posterior nares ; with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct and lachrymal canaliculi ; and with the lining membrane of the several sinuses which communicate with the nasal fossa?. it frontal sinus upper cartilage lateral of cartilage aperture sphenoidal antrum- post, border of septum Eustachian aperture salpingo-phar. fold soft palate nasal septum Fig. 157.—View of the septum nasi fhom the right side. vestibule The pituitary membrane, however, varies much in thickness and vascularity in different parts. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinate bones (particularly the inferior) and on the septum nasi it is also very thick and spongy ; but in the intervals between the turbinate bones, and over the floor of the nasal fossae, it is considerably thinner. In the maxillary, frontal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and in the ethmoidal cells, the lining mucous membrane is very thin and pale, and contrasts strongly with that which lines the nasal fossa?. The character of the epithelium varies in different parts, and by this, in a general way, three regions of the nasal fossae may be distinguished. Thus, the region of the external nostrils (the vestibule) is lined with stratified squamous epithelium ;140 THE NOSE. and the remainder is divisible into two parts, viz., the upper or olfactory region in which the epithelium is non-ciliated and columnar, and the lower or respiratory region in which, as also in the sinuses, it is ciliated and columnar. The membrane in the respiratory part covers the middle and inferior turbinate and all the lower portions of the fossro, and is studded with racemose glands, which open by orifices apparent on the surface. They arc most numerous about the middle and hinder parts of the nasal fossas, and are largest at the back of the septum near the floor of the nasal cavity. Glands which are much smaller and less numerous are stated to open into the several cavities which communicate with the nasal fossse, but many observers have failed to find them. Besides the glands the mucous membrane of the fossEe contains a variable amount of lymphoid tissue, occasionally accumulated into " nodules." In some parts large venous plexuses are found, encircled, as well as the alveoli of the glands amongst which they lie, by bundles of plain muscular fibres (Klein), thus forming a sort of cavernous tissue. Olfactory mucous membrane.—The olfactory region, or that in which the olfactory nerve is distributed, includes in man only the uppermost part of the fossae Fig. 158.—Section op the olfactory mucous membrane. (Cadiat.) a, epithelium ; b, glands of Bowman ; c, nerve-bundles. (superior turbinal and corresponding part of the septum). It is extremely vascular, a close plexus of large capillary vessels being found under the lining membrane throughout its whole extent. Its mucous membrane is covered by a very thick non-ciliated epithelium, and it is more delicate in consistence than that of the ciliated region, being indeed soft and pulpy. It has a distinct yellow colour in man (locus luteins) ; brown in some animals ; the colour may extend however beyond the true olfactory part of the mucous membrane. The glands of this region (glands of Boivman) are numerous, and are of a more simple structure than those in the lower part of the fossae. They open by fine ducts lined with flattened cells which extend to the surface between the olfactory epithelium cells (fig. 158). In the mucous membrane itself, the gland-tube is somewhat convoluted and enlarged, and it may have one or two branches. It is limited throughout by a basement membrane, and lined and almost filled with columnar or polyhedral secreting cells. These are of the " serous " type in man, but in some mammals there are " mucous " cells intermingled with the serous (Paulsen). The gland-cells contain yellowish brown pigment. In man the gland-ducts frequently open into a small sub-epithelial receptacle lined with flattened epithelium, from which a fine tube passes to the surface between the epithelium cells. Occasionally the opening141 OLFACTORY EPITHELIUM. is into a ciliated crypt. Here and there the epithelium of the surface, as shown by Max Schultze, is ciliated and not olfactory ; where this is the case, the ordinary racemose glands are found (Klein). On the other hand, Bowman's glands are not entirely confined to the olfactory mucous membrane, but may extend a short distance beyond it into the respiratory part of the fossa. The columnar cells on the surface of the olfactory mucous membrane (fig. 159, a) are prolonged at their deep extremities into a process which is generally somewhat Fig. 159.—Cells of the olfactory region. (M. Schultze.) Highly magnified. 1, from the frog ; 2, from man ; a, epithelial cell, extending deeply into a ramified process ; b, olfactory cells ; c, their peripheral pro- cesses ; e, their extremities, seen in 1 to be prolonged into fine hairs ; d, their central filaments. branched towards its deeper end. The nuclei of these cells are oval in shape and lie all at about the same level (zone of oval nuclei), i.e., in the deeper part of the columnar portion of each cell. The protoplasm of the columnar cells contains granules of yellowish-brown pig- ment. Amongst the branching central ends of these columnar cells there are a large number of peculiar spindle-shaped cells (fig. 159, b), each consisting of a large, clear, nearly spherical, nucleus surrounded by a relatively small amount of granular protoplasm. From each cell proceeds a superficial and a deep process. The superficial process (c) is a cylindrical or slightly tapering- thread passing directly to the surface, and terminating abruptly at about the same level as the free surface of the epithelial cells between which it lies, or a little beyond ; the deep process (d) is more slender, and passes vertically inwards. This last usually presents a beaded appearance similar to that observed in fine nerve- Fig. 160.—An olfactory cell, human, (v. Bruim.) n, central process prolonged as an olfactory nerve fibril; b, body of cell with nucleus ; p, peripheral process passing towards free surface ; c, knob-like clear termination of peripheral process ; h, bivnch of olfactory hairs. filaments. These cells were termed by Max Schultze, olfactory cells, to distinguish them from the columnar epithelium cells, which are much fewer in number, and which are entirely surrounded with the fine rod-like peripheral processes of the smaller cells. The nucleated bodies of the olfactory cells are several rows deep, and form a layer of considerable thickness beneath the columnar cells (zone of round nuclei). In the rabbit and guinea-pig Klein, in confirmation of a statement by Sidky, describes a lowermost layer of conical vertical cells resting by their bases upon the membrana propria. The total thickness of the olfactory epithelium in man is O'OG mm., whereas in macrosmatic mammals it is 0*1 mm. or more (v. Brunn). The olfactory (but not the columnar) cells are said to project through apertures in a cuticular lamina which bounds the mucous membrane superficially (external limiting membrane, v. Brunn). The existence of this cuticle has been, however, called in question by other observers. The peripheral process of the olfactory cell was observed by Schultze to be 71 h142 THE NOSE. surmounted by a short projection (fig. 159, 2, e) ; according to v. Brunn, this appears in well-preserved specimens to be surmounted by a bunch of fine short ha.rlets, which are termed the olfactory hairs (fig. 160). Long and fine hair-like processes have long been known to exist on the olfactory cells of amphibia, reptiles, and birds (fig. L59, I, e). In amphibia and fishes the olfactory cells are grouped together in the form of bud-like organs resembling the taste-buds of the tongue. It has been shown by various observers, by aid of the methyl- blue and silver- chromatc methods, that the fine varicose central processes of these cells are directly continuous with the fibres of the olfactory nerve, and terminate centrally by Fig. 161.—Diagram op the connections of cells and fibres in the olfactory bulb. (E. A. S.) olf.c, cells of the olfactory mucous membrane ; olf.n., deepest layer of the bulb composed of the olfactory nerve-fibres, which are prolonged from the olfactory cells ; gl., olfactory glomeruli, containing arborisations of the olfactory nerve-fibres and of the dendrons of the mitral cells ; m.c, mitral cells ; a, their axis-cylinder processes passing towards the nerve-fibre layer, n.tr., of the bulb to become continuous with fibres of the olfactory tract: these axis-cylinder processes are seen to give off collaterals, some of which pass again into the deeper layers of the bulb ; n', a nerve-fibre from the olfactory tract ramifying in the grey matter of the bulb. dendritic ramifications in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb (see fig. 161, and Vol. III., Part 1, p. 175). Olfactory Nerve.—The filaments of this nerve, lodged at first in grooves on the surface of the bones, enter the substance of the Schneiderian membrane obliquely. The nerves of the septum (fig. 162) are rather larger than those of the outer wall of the nasal fossas ; they extend over the upper third of the septum, becoming very indistinct as they descend. The nerves of the outer wall (fig. 163) are divided into two groups—the posterior being distributed over the surface of the upper turbinal, and the anterior over the anterior part of the olfactory groove. In the embryo the extent of distribution of the olfactory nerves is relatively greater, but it becomes more limited as development proceeds, and ultimately the actual distribution of olfactory nerve-fibres, to judge by the character of the epithelium covering the membrane, becomes limited to a relatively small tract embracing little but the superior turbinal and a corresponding extent of the septum (v. Brunn).ORGAN OF JACOBSON. ]43 The nerves ramify so as to form flattened tufts, the filaments of which, spreading out laterally and communicating freely with similar offsets on each side, form a close plexus, with elongated and narrow meshes. Fig. 162.—Nerves op the septum nasi, seen from the right side. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) § I, the olfactory bulb ; 1, the olfactory nerves passing through the foramina of the cribriform plate, and descending to be distributed on the septum ; 2, the internal or septal twig of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, naso-palatine nerves. In their structure the olfactory nerve-fibres differ much from the ordinary dark-bordered fibres of the cerebral and spinal nerves : they possess no medullary Fig. 163.—Nerves op the outer wall of the nasal fossjb. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) § 1, network of the branches of the olfactory nerve, descending upon the region of the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 2, external twig of the nasal nerve ; 3, sphenopalatine ganglion ; 4, ramification of the large palatine nerve ; 5, small, and 6, external palatine nerves ; 7, branch to the region of the inferior tur- binated bone ; 8, branch to the region of the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 9, naso-palatine branch to the septum cut short. sheath, but are axis-cylinders provided with a distinct nucleated sheath, much more distinct than that of the fibres of Eemak and with nuclei at less frequent intervals (fig. 164). The greater part of the mucous mem- brane of the nasal fossae is provided also with nerves of common sensibility, derived from branches of the fifth pair : the distribution of these has already been described. They appear to end amongst the epithelium cells in arborisations which have been noticed by several observers in preparations made by the silver chromate method. The Organ of Jacobson.—In the anterior and lower part of the nasal septum a small aperture may sometimes be seen opening obliquely on to the surface of the mucous membrane slightly above and in front of the orifice of the nasopalatine canal (see fig. 157). This aperture leads into a minute canal which passes backwards for a short distance along the septum to terminate blindly a few miliimeters from the orifice. The canal, which is lined with epithelium continuous with that of the144 THE NOSE. nasal cavity and lias numerous glands opening into it, is the homologue of a much more extensively developed tubular organ which opens in a similar position in many quadrupeds, and is encircled by a special curved plate of cartilage which lies below the septal cartilage on either side and is known as the cartilage of Jacobson. This is only represented in man by a narrow shred of cartilage (the vomerine cartilage of Buschke), which lies wholly below the rudimentary organ of Jacobson. In the rabbit and guinea-pig as shown by Klein, and probably in other animals in which the organ is in a well-developed condition, the epithelium which lines the inner or mesial side of the canal is much thicker than that on the outer side. It is throughout similar in structure to that lining the olfactory part of the Hchneiderian membrane. Moreover it receives considerable branches of the olfactory nerve, and in these animals is no doubt of high functional importance as an accessory to the proper organ of smell. In man the epithelium on the mesial wall of the canal is thick like the olfactory epithelium, but contains no true olfactory cells. Most of the cells are of the columnar (sustentacular) type, and although there are some more slender spindle-cells between these, probably homologous with the olfactory cells, they do not reach the surface, nor are they connected with nerve-fibres. Moreover, calcareous concretions are frequent amongst the epithelium cells, so that it is highly probable that the function of the organ in man is entirely in abeyance. In Fig. 164.—Nerve-fibres from the olfactory mdoous membrane. (Max Schultze.) Magnified between 400 and 500 diameters. From a branch of the olfactory nerve of the sheep ; at a, a, two dark-bordered or medullated fibres, from the fifth pair, associated with the pale olfactory fibres. the embryo, up to eight weeks this epithelium is relatively far better developed, but after this time it appears to undergo retrograde changes. Blood-vessels and lymphatics of the nasal fossae.—The spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery enters the cavity by the spheno-palatine foramen and divides into external branches {posterior nasal) to the meatuses and turbinals, sending offsets also to the ethmoidal cells and to the maxillary and frontal sinuses, and an internal branch (naso-palatine, artery of the septum) along the septum to the incisor foramen. The branches of the naso-palatine communicate freely with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal of the ophthalmic. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery gives small offsets to the hinder part of the inferior turbinal and meatus. The anterior ethmoidal branch of the ophtJialmic artery enters the cavity with the nasal nerve and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the fore part of the septum and outer wall. The posterior ethmoidal branch of the same artery sends small twigs to the posterior ethmoidal cells, to the roof, and to the upper part of the septum. . Lastly a branch from the superior coronary of the facial and the lateral nasal artery supply the part near the anterior nares. The several arteries anastomose freely together in the mucous membrane, and are distributed to three sets of capillaries, viz., a periosteal, glandular, and sub-epithelial.145 BLOOD-VESSELS AXD LYMPHATICS. The veins form a dense plexus in the mucous membrane,'those in the deeper parts of the membrane being especially large and closely arranged so as almost to approach the structure of a cavernous tissue. This is most largely developed over the whole lower fcurbinal, the lower and hinder border of the middle turbiual, and the hinder end of the upper turbinal as well as on the lower and hinder part of the septum. A similar dense venous plexus, continuous with that of the nasal fosste, extends around the nasal duct, as far upwards as the lachrymal sac. The trunk's leaving the cavity accompany the arteries, the spfieno-palatine vein emptying septal branch of ant. ethmoidal communicating branch between post, nasal and post, ethmoidal naso-palatinc artery branches of post, nasal for the inf. meatus ; post, nasal artery i i branch for inferior concha Fig. 165.—Arterial supply to the mucous membrane op the laterat, wall op the nasal fossa. (After Zuckerkandl.) itself into the pterygoid plexus; the ethmoidal veins joining the ophthalmic vein and the veins of the dura mater, and also sending a branch to join the veins of the orbital part of the frontal lobe of the brain (Zuckerkandl), and small veins passing out at the margin of the nares. to join the venous plexus of the upper lip. Some small veins also pierce the nasal bone and the ascending process of the superior maxilla to join the commencement of the facial vein. The lymphatics are abundant and large. They form a close plexus in the mucous membrane, the branches extending almost to the surface, and a more open plexus of valved vessels nearer the bone. These are in communication with the lymphatic spaces which enclose the branches of the olfactory nerve, and these spaces again communicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces of the cranium, so that the lymphatics of the nasal mucous membrane can be injected from the cranial VOL. III., PT. 3. L146 THE NOSE. cavity (Schwalbe, Key and Refczks). Lymphatic nodules are bei-e and th present in the mucous membrane. ere septal branch of ant.' ethmoidal artery of septum narium from superior coronary septal Iranoh of ant. ethmoidal I septal hra m lii'.s of posterior ethmoidal artery of septum, upper branch anastomosis of naso-palatine veins loith palatine artery of septum, lov;er branch Fig. 166.—Arterial supply to the septum nasi. (After Zuckerkandl.) RECENT LITEBATUKE OP THE OLFACTORY ORGAN. Allen, Harrison, The anatomy of the nasal chambers, The New York Med. Journ., 1889. Beard, J., Morphological Studies, No. 4, The nose and Jacobson's organ, Zoologische Jahrbiicher, Abt. f. Anatomie, Band iii., 1889. Bovier-Lapierre, Emile, Be la vascularize de VEpithelium olfactif, Oomptes rendus hebdom. de la Societe de biologie, 1888. v, Brunn, Ueber die Ausbreitung der menschlichen Riechschlcimhaut, Rostoeker Zeitung, 1891 ; Die Nervenendigung im Riechcpithel, Rostoeker Zeitung, 1891 ; Beitr. zur mikr. Anal, der Xascnhdhlc, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Bd. xxxix., 1892; Die Endigungcn d. Olfactoriitsfascrn im Jacobsoii'schen Organe des Schafes, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxix., 1892. Cajal, R. y, Tcrmin. del nervio olfact. en la mucosa nascd, Barcelona, 18S9 ; Origcn y termin. d.l. fibras nerviosas olfatorias, Gac. med., Catalona, 1890. Cozzolino, V., Deviazioni del set/o nasale, die, II Morgagni, xxviii., 1886. Disse, J., Die Ausbildung der Nasenhbhle nach der Geburt, Archiv f. Anatomie u. Phys., Anatom. Abt., 1889. Frankel, B., Gefrierdurchsclinitt zur Anatomie der Nasenhbhle, Berlin, 1890. van G-ehuchten, A., Contributions a V etude de la muqueuse olf active chcz les mamm'fercs, La Cellule, vi., 1890. G-rassi, B., und Castronovo, A., Beitrag zur Kcnntniss des Geruchsorganes des Hundes, Archiv ftir mikroskopische Anatomie, xxxiv., 1889. Hartmann, A., Atlas der normalen und pathologischen Anatomic der Nase. Berlin, 1S91. Herzfeld, J., Beitrdge zur Anatomie des Schwcllkdipers der Nasenschlcimhaut, Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomic, xxxiv., 1889. Herzfeld, P., Ueber dan Jacobson'sche Organ des menschen u. der Sdugcthicre, Zool. Jahrb., iii., 1888.RECENT LITERATURE OF THE OLFACTORY ORGAN. 147 Hovorcka, O., Die auasere Nose. Eine amt<misoh-anthr<ypologischc Studio, Wicn,' 1893. Hubert, K. W., Vber die Verkriknmungen der Nmenacheidewamd-, Diss., Heidelberg, 1886. Kaufmann, Ueberdie Bedeufoing der Riech-und EpitheliakettenderRegwolfaotoria, Mittheilungen aus dem embryolog. Institute der k. k. Universitiit, Wien, 1887. Keibel, P., Zur Enturioklungsgescli. •«. vergleichende Anat. der-Nase, die, Anat. Anz., 1893. Klein, E., The Organ of Jacobson, Quarterly Journ. of Micr. Science, 1881. v. Lenhossek, M., Die Nervenursprilnge und Endigungen im Jacobson'schen Organ des Kaninehms, Anatomischer Anzeiger, 1892. Lowe, L., Zur Anatomic der iVase und nebenhoMe, Leipzig, 1883. Iiustig-, A., Des cellules epitheliales dans la region olfactive des embryons, Archives italiennes de Biologie, tome x., 188S. Merkel, P., Jacobson?sches Organ u. Papilla palatina, Anat. Hefte, i., 1892. Moreno, J., Sobre las termmaciones nerviosas perifericas en la mucosa oJfatoria de los Feces, Anales d. sociedacl espan. d. histor. natur., tomo xvii. Onodi, A., Die Nascnhbhle u. Hire Nebenhblden, Wien, 1893. Pilliet, A. H., Note sur le tissu erectile des fosses nasales, Bulletins de la societe anatomique de Paris, 1891. Pogrojeff, L., Ueber die feinere Struklur des Geruchsorgans des Neunauges, Archiv fur mikro- skopische Anatomie, xxxi. Preobraschensky, S. S., Zur Kcnntniss des Baues der Rcgio olfactoria, Wiener klinisclie Wochenschrift, iv., 1891. Petzius, G., Biol. Untcrsuchungcn, iii., Stockholm, 1889. Rose, C, Ueber das rudimentare Jacobson'sche Organ der Crocodil u. des Mcnschen, Anat. Anz., 1893. Eoux, Deviation de la eloison du nez, Revue roed. de la Suisse romande, vi., 1886. Schmidt, M., Die seitliche Divertikel des Nasenrachenraumcs, Arch. f. Larj'ngol. u. Rhinol. i., 1893. Seydel, Otto, Ueber die Nasenlwhle der hdheren Sdugcthierc unci des Menschcn, Movphologiscb.es Jahrbuch, xvii., 1891. Spurgat, P., Die regelmassige Formen der Nasenknorpel des Mcnschen, #c, Anat. Anzeiger, viii., 1893. Suchannek, Hermann, Beitrag zur Frage der Spezificitat der Zellen in der ticrischen und menscldichen Riechschleimhaut, Anatomischer Anzeiger, 1891 ; Beitragc zur feincren normalcn Anatomie des mensrhlichen Geruchsorganes, Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, xxxvi., 1890 ; Bcitrage zur normalen und pathulogischen Histologic der NasenschleimhaiU, Auatom. Anzeiger, vii. 1892, and in Arch. f. Obrenheilkunde, xxxiv., 1893. Zuckerkandl, E., Das periphere Gcrur.hsorgan der Sdugethicre, Fine vcrgleichend-anatome Studio, Stuttgart; Ueber d. Circidationsapparat in der NasenschleimhaiU, Wiener Denkscbriften, xlix., 1885; Das adenoide Gewebe der Nasenschleimhaui, Medic. Jahrb., Neue Folge, i. 1886 ; Die Siebbeinnutscheln des Mcnschen, Anatom. Anzeiger, vii. 1892 ; Normale und pathologisch Anatomie der Nasenhbhle und ihrer pneumaiischen Anhange, 1892.I b8 THE ORGANS OF TASTE. THE OKGANS OF TASTE. The gustatory organs arc represented by certain patches or groups of peculiarly modified epithelium cells which are lodged in the thickness of the stratified epithe- lium of certain parts of the tongue and pharynx. These groups of cells have in mammals a bud-like arrangement and have therefore been termed luslc-hnils. Thev occur in man at the sides of the papillae vallatte of the tongue, forming a zone around the papillaa and also upon the opposed wall of the vallum. They are also found on Fig. 167.—Papillary surface of the tongue, with the fauces anu tonsils. (Sappey.) 1, 2 circumvallate papillae ; 3, fungiform papilla? ; 4, 5, filiform and conical papillae ■ 6 elands and glandular recesses ; 7, tonsils ; 8, tip of the epiglottis ; 9, fanum epiglottic^. 1 ' » * the fungiform papilla of the back and sides of the tongue, extending to the lip and here and there in the epithelium covering the general surface of the same parts of that organ. They are especially numerous over a small area just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces {fimbria lingvm). This area usually displays four or nve longitudinal folds or elevatious of the mucous membrane and appears to represent a much better defined oval laminated structure which is found in a similar situation in the tongue of some mammals {e.g., rabbit), and which is known as theTASTE-BUDS. papilla foliata (fig. 16!)). Taste-buds are also found over the anterior surface of the soft palate, and are very numerous over the posterior surface of the epiglottis. Fig. 168.—Vertical section of circumvallate papilla, from the oalf. (Eugelniann.) ■{ A, papilla ; B, vallum ; n, bundles of nerve-fibres entering papilla ; d, duct of a serous gland opening into fossa around papilla. According to W. Krause they follow the distribution of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Flask-shaped organs similar to taste-buds were discovered by Leydig in fishes in P P Fig. 169.—View from above of the rabbit's tongue showing the papilla foliate. (E. A. S.) certain parts of the skin, and they also occur in the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat in those animals. In amphibia the taste-organs take the form of patches Fig. 170.—Vertical section of a foliate papilla of the rabbit, passing across the folia. (Ranvier.) p, central lamina of folium ; v, vein ; p', lateral lamina of folium ; g, taste-bud ; n, sections of nerve-bundles ; a, serous gland. of modified epithelium-cells set on the surface of certain papillae of the tongue. The structure of the taste-buds is most easily studied in sections of the papilla foliata of the rabbit (figs. 170, 171).150 THE ORGANS OP TASTE. Taste-buds have been compared in general form and appearance to the leaf-buds of a plant. They are flask-shaped bodies, the base of the flask resting upon the corium of the mucous membrane and the apex projecting towards the free surface of the epithelium, and emerging between the ordinary flattened surface- Fig. 171.—Section through one of the taste-buds of the papilla foliata of the kabbit. (Ranvier.) Highly magnified. p, gustatory pore ; s, gustatory cell; r, sustentacular cell; m, leucocyte containing granules ; c, superficial epithelium cells ; n, nerve-fibres. cells of the stratified epithelium. The cells of the stratified epithelium are adapted and applied to the outer surface of the taste-bud and form a sort of adventitious capsule for it. The most superficial cells may even be perforated to allow of the access of the apex of the taste-bud to the free surface. In any case the apex does not quite reach the surface, but is approached from the surface by a small opeuing, the gustatory pore. Into this a bunch of fine hairlets, prolonged from the gustatory cells of the taste-bud, is seen to project. Every taste-bud contains two kinds of cells termed respectively the sustentacular and the gustatory cells. The sustentacular cells (fig. 172, b) are long and spindle-shaped, tapering to either end. They form a complete envelope to the taste-bud, being fitted together like the staves of a barrel: these surface cells are flattened from within out. Other sustentacular cells lie within the taste-bud amongst the gustatory cells, extending from apex to base of the taste-bud. The gustatory cells (fig. 172, a) closely resemble in general appearance the olfactory cells of Max Schultze (see p. 141). From the nucleated body of the cell Fig. 172.—Cells from taste-bubs of rabbit. (Engelmann.) CJ« a, four gustatory cells ; b, two gustatory and one sustentacular cell; c, three sustentacular cells.RECENT LITERATURE OF GUSTATORY ORGANS. 151 which is somewhat bulged, two processes extend. One, the peripheral, is nearly straight, and passes to the gustatory pore where it ends in a cilium-like projection, the taste-hair. The other process, the central one, passes towards the base of the flask : it may be fine and varicose, and is often bifurcated or even further branched, and, according to G. Eetzius and Lenhossek, it ends in a free extremity or extremities, and not, as was formerly thought, in continuity with the nerve-fibrils which pass to the taste-bud. Each taste-bud receives a small bundle of nerve-fibres, derived, at least in the case of those of the papillse vallatse, from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The nerve- Fig. 173.—Ending op nervk fibrks in and around taste-buds of RABBIT : GOLQI PREPARATION. (G. RetzklS.) .' fibres lose their medullary sheath as they enter the organ and are continued as axis-cylinders which end by ramify- ing amongst the gustatory cells (intrabulbar ramification, fig. 173, i) without, as has been just stated, coming into actual continuity with these cells. A number of nerve- fibrils also pass into the enclosing capsule of stratified epithelium and end by ramifying between the cells of that epithelium (peribulbar ramification, fig. 173, p). ^ These peribulbar nerves are believed to be nerves of general sensibility and not gustatory. Section of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves in young animals is followed by atrophy of the taste-buds after some time. The taste-buds of the anterior part of the tongue appear to be supplied by the chorda tympani nerve. RECENT LITERATURE OP THE GUSTATORY ORGANS. Arnstein, C, Die Nervenendigungen in den Schmeckbechern der Sanger., Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxxi., 1893. Drasch, O., Untersuchungen ilber die Papillce foliata?. und circumvallatai der Kaninchen und Feldhasen, Leipzig, 1887. Gmelin, Zur Morphologie der Papilla vallata und foliata, Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, xL, 1892. Hermann, Friedrich, Studien iiber den feineren Ban des Geschnackorgans, Erlangen, 1887 ; Sitzungsberichte der math.-physik. Klasse d. k. b. Akad. d. Wissensch., Miinchen, 1888. Honigschmied, J., Klcine Beitrage, betreffend die Anordnung der Geschmacksknospen bei den Saugethieren, Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftl. Zoologie, Band xlvii., 1888. Lenhossek, M. v., Der feinere Bau u. d. Nervenendigungen der Geschmaeksknospen, Anat. Anzeiger, viii. 1893. Niemack, J., Der nervose Apparat in den Endscheiben der Frosch-zunge, Anat. Hefte, 1892. Tuckerman, Frederick, Note on the papilla foliata and other taste areas of the pig, Anatom. Anzeiger, iii., 1888 ; Anatomy of the papilla foliata of the human infant, Journ. of Anat., vol. xxii., 1888 ; Observations on the structure of the gustatory organs of the bat, Journal of Morphology, 1888 ; On the gustatory organs of some Edentata, Internationale Monatsschrift fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, Band vii., 1890 ; The development of the gustatory organs in Man, Journal of Anatomy, 1889 ; Americ. Journal of Psychology, vol. iii., 1890 ; On the gustatory organs of some of the Mammalia, Journal of Morphology, vol. iv., 1890 ; Observations on some mammalian taste-organs, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol., 1891.152 COMPARISON OK SENSE-ORGANS. OOMPABISON OF THE MODES OF ARRANGEMENT OF SENSOKY CELLS AND NEEVE FIBRES IN THE DIFFERENT ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. All tho organs of special sense contain specially modified cells or the processes of such cells, the so-called nerve-epithelium cells or sense-epithelium cells which serve to receive the physical impressions upon which the sensation depends, and to transmute these impressions into nerve-impulses which are then conducted by nerve-fibres to a nerve-centre. The skin appears at first sight to present an exception to this general rule, but the ganglion-cells on the posterior roots, which send their peripheral processes in the form of nerve-fibres to end by ramifying in the skin, either in a special tactile organ or between the cells of the GANGLION - CHAIN cPI OERMig MVS|CL£S \"Z Fig. 174.—Diagram of the nervous ststem of the earthwohm. (E. A. after Lenhossek and Retzius.) m, motor cells ; s, sensory fibres emanating from s', sensory cells in the epidermis; i, median intercalated cell. epidermis, do in fact represent the sense-epithelium cells such as we find in the olfactory organ and in the retina of the eye. This becomes plain from a comparison of the arrange- ments of the sensory nerves of Annelids with those of Vertebrates. Thus in the earthworm (Lumbricus) the whole epidermis is pervaded by cells (fig. 17-1, s') which resemble in nearly every particular the olfactory cells of Vertebrates. They are spindle-shaped cells, having two processes, one unbranched and extending straight to the free surface, the other branching, and with one of its branches prolonged as a nerve-fibre to the central nervous system and ending in a forked termination which comes into relation with branches of the nerve-cells there present. As in the olfactory organ the sense-cells are supported by columnar epithelium cells which are not connected with the nerve centre. In other Annelids (e.g., Nereis) the sense-cells are no longer situated between the other cells of the epidermis, but occupy a deeper position and send their peripheral process, which is still unbranched, to penetrate between the cells of the epidermis, and thus to reach the surface, whilst the central processCOMPARISON OF SENSE-ORGANS. 153 is prolonged towards the central nervous system, where it terminates as in Lumbricus (fig-. 17o). Here, in Nereis, the body of the sense-cell, which, since it gives origin to a nerve- fibre or fibres, may be termed the sensory nerve-cell, is beginning to move away from the periphery. In Vertebrata, the only essential difference is that the same cell is further removed from the periphery, and is nearer the central nervous system, viz., in the ganglion of the posterior root. In all vertebrate embryos and in some Vertebrata throughout life, the sensory nerve-cell is a spindle-shaped cell, with a peripheral process extending as the sensory nerve-fibre towards the integument, and a central process, passing by the posterior root into the grey matter of the nerve-centre. In most Vertebrata, the spindle-shaped bipolar character of* these sensory nerve-cells becomes lost, owing to the fact that as develop- ment proceeds the two processes shift towards one another at their attachment to the cell and ultimately come off from it by a common stem, but this is a mere secondary modification and does not affect the validity of the comparison. In most other sense organs, the sensory cells remain at or near the periphery, and the most important differences between them consist in the relative extent of development of the centrally directed prolongation. In the auditory organ (fig. 176), which is an involuted portion of the integumental surface, the sense- cells are represented by the hair-cells of the macula? and of the organ of Corti. Here a central process is absent, and the connection with the central nervous system is effected by the endings of the auditory nerve enveloping the cell-bodies by a close terminal ramification. These hair-cells of the auditory organ are not in the same category of sensory cells with the Fig. 175.—Diagrams showing the relative position op the sensory cell in Lumbricus, Nereis, and Vertebrata. (After G. Ketzius.) olfactory cells of the nasal membrane or the visual cells of the retina. For they are destitute of a central or nerve-fibre process, and it may be doubted whether they transmute the auditory vibrations into nervous impulses. On the other hand the manner in which the terminations of the auditory nerve-fibres surround or abut against the enlarged deeper ends of these cells suggests the possibility of a mechanical excitation of the nerve-terminations by a direct trans- mission of the vibrations of the endolymph through the cells in question. If this view be taken, viz., that the hair-cells of the auditory organ are not true nerve-epithelium cells, but only ordinary epithelium cells somewhat modified for the transcission of mechanical impulses, then it will follow that the terminal sensory cells are to be looked for in the cells of the spiral ganglion of the cochlea and in the cells in the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve. These are bipolar cells having a peripheral process ending as we have seen in contact with the hair- cells, and a central process (auditory nerve fibre) ramifying in the grey matter of the nerve- centre. There will thus be a close analogy as regards nerve-ending between the auditory and tactile organs. With regard to the gustatory organ our knowledge is still imperfect. It has usually been supposed hitherto that the central processes of the gustatory cells are prolonged into nerve-fibres, and if this were the case, these cells would come into the same category with the olfactory cells of the nasal mucous membrane. But according to the most recent observa- vol. nr., it. 3. M Lumbricus Nereis VertebrataCOMPARISON OP SENSE-ORGANS. 154 tions the central process of the gustatory cell is not continuous with a fibre of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and the connection of the gustatory cells with the fibres of that nerve is auditor;/ yuatatory tactile Fig. 176.—Diagram showing the mode of termination of sensory nerve fibres int the AUDITORY, GUSTATORY, AND TACTILE STRUCTURES OF YeRTEBRATA. (After Gr. RetziuS.) indirect and not by continuity. If this is so, the arrangement in the gustatory organ would appear to be somewhat similar to that which obtains in the general integument and in the auditory organ (fig. 176). Fig. 177.—Diagram of the connexions of the retinal elements. (After G. Retzius.) fifJ'.i., inner granules ; m. i., inner molecular layer ; gr, ganglion cell ; n, its nerve fibre process or neuron ramifying in the nerve centre. The retina of the eye, as its development shows. Is rather to be regarded as an extension of the central nervous system than a peripheral organ. It is composed of nerve- elements (nerve-cells) which are arranged in three tiers (fig. 177). Those which are placed most peripherally are the visual cells or rod- and cone-cells, which resemble the general type of sensory cells in consisting of a nucleated enlargement or cell-body (outer granule) with a speeially modified peripheral process (rod or cone), and a central ly directed ramified (nerve-fibre) process (rod- or cone-fibre). In the case of the cone-elements the peripheral process has been shown to be contractile, since it shortens under the excitation of light (see p. 50). It is usually believed that in these peripheral processes the nerve-impulses are produced and that the impulses are thence conducted centrally by the central or nerve-fibre process (rod- or cone-fibre), and by it transmitted to the next tier of cells. The second tier of nervous elements is afforded by the layer of inner granules. Here there are bipolar nerve-cells, the peripheral processes of which interlace with the central processes of the rod- and cone-cells, but one peripheral fibre (fibre of Landolt) extends in most vertebrates beyond the rest and comes to lie between the bodies of the rod- and cone-cells. The central processes of the bipolars interlace with the peripheral processes of the cells of the next tier.Loo COMPARISON OF SKNSE-ORGANS. Lastly, the third tier of nervous elements is formed by the ganglion-cells of the retina whose peripheral dendritic processes interlace with the central processes of the inner granules and whose centrally directed processes are fibres of the nerve and have their central optic terminations in the grey matter of the general nerve-centres. The comparison of the elements of the retina with those of the other sense organs is not easy. If we compare the retina with the olfactory organ, we are at a loss to say whether we are to place the rod- and cone-cells along with the olfactory cells, as in making this com- parison is most frequently done, or whether we should not rather look upon the bipolar inner granules as the homologues of those elements. In the latter case we should be led to suppose that the nervous impulses originate in the peripheral process of the inner granules, Kig. 178.—Diagram of the arrangement of the sensory nerve-fibres IN THE OLFACTORY ORGAN AND BULB. (After Gr. RetziuS.) being there set up by a stimulation received from the rod- and cone-cells. And it is further open to us to suppose this stimulation to be a mechanical one caused by the contraction of the rod- and cone-elements under the influence of light. If on the other hand we regard the rod- and cone-elements as representing the olfactory cells, there appears to be no structure in the olfactory apparatus homologous with the tier of inner granules of the retina. A comparison of the retina with the remaining sense-organs is also easier on the assumption that the inner granules represent the actual sensory cells in which nervous impulses originate in response to stimulation set up through the rod- and cone-elements. The connections of the olfactory cells (fig. 178) more nearly resemble the primitive arrangement of sensory structures which occurs in Lumbricus, than is the case in any other of the sense organs. For here, as in the epidermis of Lumbricus, the sensory nerve-cells are at the free surface, lying between and supported by columnar epithelium cells. And the sensory nerve-fibres are a direct prolongation of the fixed ends of the olfactory cells, passing to the nerve centre and there becoming interlaced with the processes of the nerve-cells of the centre. The nature of the olfactory excitation, whether mechanical, chemical, or otherwise, is not known, but whatever it be, we must assume that its result is to set up nervous impulses within the olfactory cells, and that these impulses are then propagated along the fibres of the olfactory nerve to the olfactory bulb : where, within the olfactory glomeruli, they are somehow transmitted to the dendritic processes of the mitral cells, through the nerve-fibre processes of which they are again passed on to other parts of the brain. It will therefore be seen that all the sense-organs have this in common, viz., a bipolar sensory nerve-cell having (1) a peripheral process extending towards the surface and penetrating between more or. less modified epithelium-cells which cover that surface, and (2) a central process which is in all cases recognizable as a ner.ve-fibre and the terminal ramification of which interlaces with ramifications of nerve-cells within a nerve-centre. The chief differences occur in the greater or less special modification of the epithelium-cells between which the peripheral processes penetrate, such modification being very considerable in the visual organ, less in the auditory and gustatory organs, very slight in the olfactory organ, and absent in the case of the general integument.INDEX AND GLOSSAEY TO VOL. III., PT. III. Aditis ad antrum (approach to antrum), 80 Adventitia oculi, 11 Agger (mound) nasi, 138 Ala (wing) of nose, 130, 132 Amacrine (o priv. paicpos, long ; is, Ivos, fibre) cells, 41, 44, 52, 57 Amphibia, retinal cells of, 44 end-knobs of retiua of, 46 lagena of, 114 olfactory cells of, 142 rods and cones of, 49 taste-organs of, 149 Ampulla (flask-shaped vessel) of semicircular canals, 100, 105, 108, no Anderson, on dilatator iridis, 33 Angle, of eye, 1 naso-facial, 130 Annelids, sensory cells and nerves of, 152 Annular ligament, 83 Annulus fibrosus, 82 Anosmatics (o priv. 6<Tfido/j.ai, smell), 130 Anterior chamber of eye, 21, 22, 66 homogeneous lamina of cornea, 19 hyaline layer of iris, 33 limiting layer of iris, 33 Anthelix (diri, opposite to ; helix), 72 Antitragus, 71 muscle of, 75 An tram (cave), mastoid, 80, 84 maxillary, 136, 139 Aqueduct of cochlea, 104 Fallopius, 83 vestibule, 99, 105 Aqueous humour {humor, liquid), 11, 55, 66 Arch, tarsal, 5 Arcus senilis, 19 Area centralis retinfe, 54 Arteria centralis retinse, 38, 55, 59, 65 Arteries or Artery, auditory, internal, 109 auricular, 76, 79, 83 central of retina, 38, 55, 59, 65 of choroid coat, 36, 55 ciliary, 13, 15, 16, 26, 29, 33 of cochlea, 126 of conjunctiva, 5, 16 of cornea, 22 ethmoidal, 144 of Eustachian tube, 88 of eyelids, 5 of external auditory canal, 79 of iris, 33 of labyrinth, 109 of lens, 65 of lachrymal gland, 8 mandibular, 91 of membrana tympani, 82 nasal, 144 of nasal duct, 10 fossaj, 144 naso-palatine, 144 of nose, 131 VOL. III., PT. 3. Arteries—continued. of optic nerve, 16, 55 palatine, 144 palpebral, 5, 16 papillary, 55 of pinna, 76 of retina, 36, 55 of sclerotic coat, 16, 55 of septum nasi, 144 spheno-palatine, 144 stapedial, 91 of tympanic membrane, 97 of tympanum, 97 Atrium (hall) of middle meatus, 138 Auditory artery, internal, 109 canal, external. See Canal. epithelium, 105 hairs, no, 112 meatus, external. See Canal. internal, 102, 124 nerve, 99, 104, 108, 124, 152 ossicles, 89, 96 movements of, 95 Auricle, 71 Auricular artery, 76, 79, 83 nerve, 76, 79, 83 Auriculo-temporal nerve, 76, 79, 83 Axis of eye, 11 Axis-ligament of malleus, 93 Bacillary layer of retina, 38, 46 Ball of eye. See Globe. Basal cells, 45 Basilar membrane, 113, 116, 119, 127 cells, 121 Berger on zonula of Ziim, 62 v. Bezold on external auditory canal, 77 Bibliography. See Literature. Bipolar cells, 41, 45, 52, 109, 124, 153,154, 155 Birds, bipolar cells of retina of, 44 ciliary muscle of, 30 cochlea of, 102 dilatator iridis of, 33 end-knobs of retina of. 46 epithelium of semicircular canals of, 110 fovea centralis of, 54 lagena of, 114 olfactory cells of, 142 retinal cones of, 49 Blood-vessels. See Arteries ; Veins. Body, ciliary, 15, 29, 62, 66 vitreous, n, 38, 58 Bones or bone, small, of ear, 89 of stapedius muscle, 94 tympanic, 79 Bowman, corneal tubes of, 18 glands of, 140 membrane of, 19 Brnch, membrane of, 29 v. lirunn, on olfactory cells, 142 N* 158 INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART HI. Brunner, on articulations of auditory ossicles, 91 Bulla (boss) ethmoidalis, 136 Bundle, ciliary, 2 Cajal, on anincrino cells, 45 bipolar cells of retina, 43 ganglionic layer of retina, 41 horizontal cells, 15 Canal or canals, carotid, 87, 89 central, of modiolus, 102, 124 of chorda tympani, 98 of cochlea, 113, 118, 127 Eustachian, 86 external auditory, 76, 81 of infant, 79 nerves of, 79 structure of, 78 vessels of, 79 of Jacobson's nerve, 98 lachrymal, 7, 8, 10 membranous of cochlea, 104 membranous semicircular, 105 , nasopalatine, 138 of Petit, 59, 62, 66 of Recklinghausen, 18 of Schlemm, 21, 34, 66 semicircular, 98, 99, 100, 105, 109 spiral of cochlea, 102 of modiolus, 104, 124 of Stensen, 138 of Stilling, 38, 59 of tensor tympani muscle, 86, 94 Canaliculus lacrimalis, 1 Canalis hyaloideus, 59 incisivus, 138 meinbranaceus, 113 reuniens, 105, 114 utriculo-saecularis, 105 Canthus (tire of wheel), 1 Capitulum (dim. of caput, head) of malleus, 89 Capsule of lens, 34, 59, 62, 63, 65 of Tenon, 11 Carotid canal, 87, 89 Cartilage of Eustachian tube, 87 of external auditory canal, 78, 80 of Jacobson, 133, 144 lateral, of nose, 131 of nasal aperture, 131, 132 of Meckel, 90, 91 of pinna, 73, 80 of septum nasi, 132 tarsal, 2. Sec also Tarsus. vomerine, 133, 144 Cartilagines epactiles (eVa/crta, intercalary), 132 minores vel quadrataj, 132 Caruncula (dim. of cam, flesh) lacrimalis, 2, 10 Cat, dilatator iriclis of, 33 Caudal process, 74 Cells, basilar, 121 of Claudius, 122 of Deiters, 121, 127 ethmoidal, 135, 136, 139 gustatory, 150, 153 of Hensen, 122 mastoid, 84, 96 nerve-epithelium, 152 olfactory, 141, 154 sense-epithciium, 152 tympanic, 81 visual, 46, 154 Central artery of retina, 38, 55, 59 canal of modiolus, 102, 124 Cerumen (cent aitrium, wax of ears), 79 Ceruminous glands, 73, 79 Chamber, anterior, of eye, 21, 22, 66 posterior of eye, 66 Chievitz, on fovea centralis, 54 Choame (xodvrj, funnel), 130 Chorda (string) tympani nerve, 81, 96, 98, 151 Choroid (correctly chorioid, from %6ptov, mem- brane) coat, 11, 13, 14, 16, 23, 30, 53 structure of, 24 nerves of, 34 Cilia (cilium, eyelid, eyelash), 4 Ciliary arteries, 26, 29, 33 body, 15, 24, 29, 62, 66 bundle, 2 glands, 29, 55, 62, 66 ligament, 30 muscle, 20, 30 circular, 30 nerves, 13, 15, 16, 26, 29, 55 processes, 23, 24, 29, 54, 60 vessels, 13, 15, 16, 26, 29, 55 Circular cilinry muscle, 30 Circulus major, 33, 34 minor, 33 Zinnii, 16 Claudius, cells of, 122 Cleft, olfactory, 134 Coat, choroid, 11, 13, 14, 16, 23, 30, 53 sclerotic, n, 13, 14, 30 vascular, of eye, 23 Cochlea (snail), 83, 98, 101, 108 canal of, 113, 118, 127 measurements of, 127 membranous, 98, 104, 112 vessels of, 126 Cochlear nerve, 108, 114, 124 Cochleariform (cochleare, spoon ; forma, shape) process, 86, 94 Colliculus (dim. of collis, hill) nervi optici, 36 Colosanti, on Meibomian glands, 4 Columella (dim. of columna, pillar) cochlea?, 102 Columna nasi, 130, 132 Comparison of different sensory nerves and cells, 152 Concha (mussel shell) of ear, 71 Conchffi, ethmoidal, 135, 136 Cone-bipolar cells, 43 Cone-fibre, 46, 53, 57, 154 Cone-foot, 47 Cone-granules, 46 Cones of retina, 46, 47, 50, 52, 54, 57, 154 Conjunctiva (conjimgit palpcbras cum oculo), 1, 4, 10, 11 arteries of, 16 bulbi, 4, 16 palpebrarum, 4, 11 veins of, 17 Cornea (corncus, horny), H> 13. 14, 17 structure of, 17 vessels and nerves of, 22 Corneal corpuscles, 18, 23 tubes, 18 Corpus ciliare, 15, 24, 29, 62, 66 Corpuscles of cornea. 18, 23 vitreous body, 59 Crista (crest) acustica, 107, no vestibidi, 99 Crura (cries, leg) of incus, 90 of stapes, 91159 INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART III. Crystalline lens. Sec Lexs. Cupola, 102 Cupula (vault) terminalis, 112 Darwin, tubercle of. 72 Deiters, cells of, 121, 127 Demours, membrane of, 19 Denissenko, on retina of eel, 46 Descemet, membrane of, 19, 22 Diameters of cornea, 17 of eyeball, 14 Dilatator concha?, 75 pupihe, 32 tuba?, 87 Dimensions. See Measurements. Disc, optic, 38 Divisions of auditory nerve, 108 Dog, orifice of nasal duct of, 10 Dogiel, on spongioblasts, 44 Drum of ear, 80 Duct, nasal, 7, 9, 138, 140 Ductus cochlearis, 113 endolymphaticns, 99, 105 naso-pharyngeus, 138 Ear, 71 external, 71 index of, 72 internal, 98 literature of, 127 middle, 80 ossicles of, 89 Ear-point, 72 Earthworm, sensory cells and nerves of, 152 Eel, vessels of retina of, 46 Eighth nerve. See Auditory Nerve. Elastic lamina, posterior, 17, 19 Ellipsoid, 49 Eminentia papillaris, 85 End-bulbs of conjunctival nerves, 16 End-knob, 46 Endolymph, 98, 104, 113, 152 Endothelium of cornea, 17, 20, 22 lamina supracboroidea, 25 ligamentum pectinatum, 21 sclerotic coat, 16 Tenon's capsule, 11 zonula of Zinn, 62 Epiglottis, 149 Episcleral (M, upon ; sclerotic) plexus of veins, . l7 Epithelium, of ampullae, no auditory, 105 of conjunctiva, 16 of cornea, 17, 22 of Eustachian tube, 87, 96 of iris, 31, 66 of lens capsule, 66 oflimbus, 116 of mastoid cells, 96 of membrane of lieissner, 118 of membranous cochlea, 113 of nasal fossa?, 139 nerve , 152 olfactory, 140, 141 of organ of Corti, 117, 119, 126 of organ of Jacobson, 144 of retina, 46, 50, 54 of semicircular canals, 109, 110 Epithelium—continued. sense , 152 of tympanum, 96 Ethmoidal arteries, 144 bulla, 136 cells, 135, 136, 139 concha;, 135, 136 fissure, 135, 136 Eustachian canal, 86 cartilage, 87, 96 tube, 80, 81, 86, 94, 96 muscles of, 88 vessels and nerves of, 88 Ewart, on lens fibres, 65 External auditory canal. See Canal. ear, 71 palpebral arteries, 5 Eye, r axes of, 11 chambers of, 21, 22, 66 choroid coat of, 23 coverings of, 1 globe of, 10 lens of, 63 literature of, 67 measurements of, 14, 17, 63 retina of, 35 sclerotic coat of, 13 suspensory ligament of, 12 vitreous humour of, 58 Eyelashes, 4 Eyelids, 1, 2, 10 lymphatics of, 6 nerves of, 7 smooth muscle of, 4 structure of, 2 vessels of, 5 Fallopius, aqueduct of, 83 Eascia (band), palpebral, 2, 3 salpingo-pharyngea, 87 Fat, orbital, 10, n Fenestra (window) ovalis, 83, 91, 95, 99 rotunda, 83, 95, 104 Fibre-cells, in Fibres of lens, 64 of Mliller, 39, 41, 50, 54 radial, 50 Fibril of Landolt, 44, 57, 154 Fibrous tympanic plate, 79 Fimbria (fringe) lingua?., 148 Fingered cells, 17 Fishes, epithelium of semicircular canals of, no lagena of, 114 olfactory cells of, 142 i"ods and cones of, 49 taste-organs of, 149 Fissure, ethmoidal, 135, 136 of Glaser, 81, 90 petroso-squamosal, 84 petro-tympanic, 81 Fissures of Santorini, 74, 80 Fold, naso-pharyngeal, 138 snlpingo-palatine, 87 salpingo-pharyn geal, 8 7 Folds, tympano-malleolar, 82 Fontana, spaces of, 21, 66 Foramen ccntrale, 102 incisor, 138 singulare (solitary), 108 N 2Hair-cells, 110, 119, 121, 127, 152 Lagena (flagon), 114 160 INDEX AND GLOSSARY Fornix (arch, vault) conjunctiva', i, 8 Fossa (ditch) ofantnelix, 72 of holix, 72 nasal, 130, 133 rauoous membrane of, 139 patellaris {patella, small dish), 58 of Rosenmuller. 87 soaphoidea, 72 triangularis, 72 Fossula (dim. of fossa) cochlete, 102 ovalis, 83 rotunda, 83 Fovea (pit) centralis retinae, 15, 35, 40, 44, 52 55 externa, 53 hcmielliptica, 99, 104 hemisphorica, 99, 105, 108 Frog, bipolar cells of retina of, 44 retinal cones of, 50 retinal rods of, 49 Frontal sinus, 136, 139 Fundamental nerve-plexus of cornea, 22 Fungiform papilla;, 148 Funiculus (dim. of funis, cord) sclera?, 17 Ganglion of Corti, 108 nervi optici, 38, 40, 57 of nerve of tensor tyrnpani, 94, 98 retiuffi, 38, 4i, 154 of Scarpa, 108 spirale, 109, 124, 152 Ganglionic layer of retina, 40, 52, 54, 57 Ganoidei, retinal cones of, 49 Giacomini on plica semilunaris of negro, 2 Giant-cells of retina, 41 Glands of Bowman, 140 ceruminous, 73, 79 ciliary, 29, 55, 62, 66 Harderian, 5 lachrymal, 7, 8 inferior, 7 Meibomian, 2, 3 of Moll, 4 of nasal duct, 10 tarsal, 3 posterior, 4 of tympanum, 96 Glandula lacrimalis inferior, 7 Glandule ceruminosse, 79 Glaser, fissure of, 81, 90 Globe of eye, 1, 10 diameters of, 14, 15 dimensions of, 1, 10, 14 Glomeruli, olfactory, 142 Granules, inner, 41, 52, 57, 154 myeloid, 50 outer, 46, 52, 154 pigment, of retina, 50 Groove, spiral, 115 Guinea-pig, cells of Hensen of, 122 olfactory epithelium of, 141 organ of'Jacobson of, 144 Gustatory cells, 150, 153 organs, 148 literature of, 151 pore, 150 Hairs, auditory, 110, 112 olfactory, 142 TO VOLUME 111. PART 111. Hamulus (small hook), 103 Handle of malleus, 82, 90 Hannover on funiculus sclera', 17 Harderian gland, 5 Uelicotrema («Ai{, spiral ; rpri/xa, hole), 102 Helix, 72 muscles of, 75 spine of, 74 Henle on baeillary layer of retina, 50 on smooth muscle of eyelid, 4 Hensen, cells of, 122 on hair-cells, 122 Hexagonal colls of retina, 24, 35, 38, 50 Hiatus (opening, from hio, open) Fallopii, 97 semilunaris, 136, 138 Homogeneous lamina of cornea, 19 Horizontal cells, 45, 57 Humour (humor, liquid) aqueous, 11, 54, 66 vitreous, 11, 38 Hyaline layers of iris, 33 Hyaloid membrane, 53, 58, 59 Incisor foramen, 138 Incisura (notch) Rivini, 81, 82 terminalis, 74 Incus (anvil), 80, 89, 90, 91, 95 ligaments of, 85, 93 Index, of ear, 72 nasal, 131 Infundibulum (funnel), 135 Internal auditory meatus, 102, 124 ear, 71, 98 palpebral artery, 5 Intrabulbar nerves, 151 Intrinsic ligaments of pinna, 74 muscles of pinna, 75 Iris (rainbow), 11, 15, 20, 23, 31 muscular tissue of, 32 nerves of, 34 pillars of, 21 vessels of, 33 Isthmus tubre, 87 Iter chords anterius, 84, 98 posterius, 98 Jacobson, cartilages of, 133, 144 nerve of, 97 organ of, 133, 143 Kkause on glands of tympanum, 96 Labium tympanicum, 115 vestibulare, 115 Labyrinth, 71, 98 membranous, 98, 104 osseous, 98, 99 Lachrymal (lacrima, tear) apparatus, 7 canals, 7, 8, 10 gland, 7, 8 inferior, 7 reservoir, 1 sac, 7, 9 Lacus (reservoir) lacrimalis, 1161 INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART III. Lamellae (dim. of lamina, plate) of cornea, 18 Lamina, anterior homogeneous, of cornea, 19 cribrosa (cribruni, sieve), 15 fusca (dark), 13, 16 posterior elastic, of cornea, 17, 19 reticularis, 119, 121, 122 spiralis, 102, 103, 113, 124 secondary, 103 supraohoroidea, 24, 53 Lamina? of lens, 64 Landolt, fibril of, 44, 57, 154 Langley on dilatator iridis, 33 Lateral recess of pharynx, 87 sinus, 85 Laxator tympani muscle, 92 Layer, of horizontal cells, 45 outer fibrous, of retina, 53 Layers of retina, 38, 52, 54, 56 Leber on canal of Schlemm, 22 Leuhossek on gustatory cells, 151 Lens, 11, 14, 31, 63 capsule of, 34, 59, 62, 63, 65 changes with age of, 66 fibres of, 64 structure of, 64 suspensory ligament of, 59 Levator palati muscle, 88 palpebral muscle, 1, 2, 3 Leydig on taste-organs of fishes, 149 Lid of eye. -See Eyelid. Ligaments or ligament, annular, 83 of auditory ossicles, 92 of capsule of Tenon, 11 ciliary, 30 of incus, 85, 93 of malleus, 92 palpebral, 2, 3 of pinna, 74 spiral, 113, 117, 119 suspensory of eye, 12 of lens, 24, 31, 59 tarsal, 2, 3, 10 tympano-malleolar, 82 Ligamentum pectinatum (x>ceten, comb), 21, 30, 66 suspensorium oculi, 12 Limbus (sill, border) luteus, 35 of spiral lamina, 115, 127 Limen (threshold) vestibuli, 139 Limiting layers of iris, 33 Liquor Cotunuii, 98 Morgagni, 66 Literature of ear, 127 of eye, 67 of gustatory organs, 151 of nose, 146 Lobule, 71, 74 Lockwood on capsule of Tenon, 12 Locus luteus. 140 Long ciliary arteries, 33 Lumbricus, sensory cells and nerves of, 152 Lymphatics of conjunctiva, 16 of cornea, 22 of external auditory canal, 76, 81 of eyelid, 6 of nasal fossfe, 145 of nose, 131 of pinna, 76 of tympanic membrane, 83 Lymph-spaces of olfactory nerves, 145 of optic nerve, 56, 59 perichoroidal, 13, 25, 66 Ly mph- spaces—continued. perivascular, 26, 56 of retina, 56 of Tenon's capsule, 11, 25 Lizard, bipolar cells of retina of, 44 Macrosmatics {naitpds. large ; off/iiotxai, smell), 130, 137. Hi Macula (spot) acustica utriculi, 105, 112 lutea (yellow), 35, 40, 47, 52, 55 neglecta, 105 Maier, sinus of, 9 Malleus (hammer), 80, 81, 82, 89, 91, 92, 94, ligaments of, 92 Mammals, end-knobs of retina of, 46 rod-ellipsoid of, 49 Mandibular artery, 91 Manubrium (handle) mallei, 82, 90 Marginal fasciculus, 2 plexus, 7 Marsupials, retinal cones of, 49 Mastoid antrum, 80, 84 cells, 84, 96 Maxillary antrum, 136, 139 concha, 135 Measurements of coats of eye, 14 of cochlea, 127 of cornea, 14, 17 of globe of eye, 14 of lens, 63 of nasal fossae, 134 of tympanum, 80 Meatus (passage), auditory, external. See Canal. internal, 102, 124 of nose, 135, 138 Meckel, cartilage of, 90, 91 Meibomian glands, 2, 3 Membrana fenestrata, 45 flaccida, 82, 96 limitans of pituitary membrane, 141 of retina, 38, 51, 52 nictitans (nieto, wink), 2 tympani, 78, 79, 81, 90, 93, 95, 96, 98 Membrane, basilar, 113, 116, 119, 127 of Bowman, 19 of Bruch, 29 of Den 1 ours, 19 of Descemet, 19, 22 hyaloid, 53, 58, 59 papillary, 34, 66 pituitary, 139 of Reissner, 113, 118, 127 Schneiderian, 139 secondary, of tympanum, 83, 95, 104 tectorial, 120, 123. 127 Membranous cochlea, 98, 104, 112 labyrinth, 98, 104 semicircular canals, 105 Microsmatics (fuicpSs, little; dtrndonai, smell), 130 Middle ear, 71, 80 Modiolus (nave of wheel), 101, 102, 124 Molecular layer, inner, 38, 41, 43, 44, 52> 54, 57 outer, 38, 43, 45. 47. 52» 57 Moll, glands of, 4 Monotremes, lagena of, 114 Midler on bacillary layer, 50 fibres of, 39, 41, 50, 54 on spheno-maxillary muscle, 4162 INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME HI. PART III. Muscles or Muscle, of-amtitFagus, 75 ciliary, 20, 30 circular, 30 dilatator concha;, 75 pupillffl, 32 tubse, 87 of Eustachian tubo, 88 of eyelid, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10 of helix, 75 laxator tympani, 92 levator palati, 88 of pinna, 75 pyramidalis, 75 of Riolan, 2 salpingo-pharyngcus, 89 smooth, of iris, 32 of capsule of Tenon, 11 spheno-maxillary, 4 sphincter pupillse, 32 stapedius, 85, 94, 95, 98 tensor choroidea?, 30 tensor palati, 87, 88 tensor tarsi, 9, 10 tensor tympani, 81, 86, 93, 94, 95, 98 of tragus, 75 transverse, of pinna, 75 of tympanum, 93 Myeloid granules, 50 Naiies, anterior and posterior, 130 ventricle of, 139 Nasal arteries, 144 duct, 7, 9, 10, 138, 145 fossa?, 130, 133 measurements of, 134. mucous membrane of, 134 vessels of, 144 index, 131 Naso-facial angle, 130 Naso-palatine artery, 144 canal, 138 Naso-pharyngeal fold, 138 Naso-turbinal, 138 Negro, plica semilunaris of, 2 Nereis, sensory cells and nerves of, 152 Nerve-epithelium cells, 151 Nerve-fibre layer of retina, 38, 52, 54, 57 Nerves or nerve, auditory, 99, 104, 108, 124, 152 auricular, 76 chorda tympani, 81, 96, 98, 151 of choroid, 31, 34 ciliary, 13, 15, 17, 22, 34 of cochlea, 108, 114, 124 of conjunctiva, 16 of cornea, 22 of Eustacbian tube, 88 of external auditory canal, 79 of eyelid, 7 intrabulbar, 151 of iris, 34 of Jacobson, 97 of lachrymal gland, 8 of nasal duct, 10 fossa?, 143 of nose, 131 olfactory, 140, 142 optic, 10, 11, 15, 16, 35, 39, 47, 55, 56, 57 peribulbar, 151 petrosal, 97 of pinna, 76 of retina, 39 Nerves—continued. of saccule, 108 of sclerotic, 17 of taste-buds, 151 of tympanum, 81, 83, 97 Nouroglia-cells, 40 Ncurospongium, 41 Nose, 130 cartilages of, 131 literature of, 146 septum of, 130, 142, 145 vessels and nerves of, 131 Notch of Rivinus, 81, 82, 93 Nuclear layer, inner, 38, 41, 54, 57 outer, 38, 46, 53, 54 zone of lens, 65 Nucleus of lens, 63 Obliquk muscle of pinna, 75 Ocular conjunctiva, 5 Oil-globule of retinal cones, 49 Olfactory cells, 141, 154 cleft, 134 epithelium, 140, 141 glomeruli, 142 hairs, 142 mucous membrane, 140 nerves, 140, 142 organs, 131 literature of, 146 Optic disc, 38 nerve 10, 11, 15, 16, 35, 47, 55, 56, 57 papilla, 55, 59 vesicle, primary, 50 Ora serrata (notched edge), 35, 54 Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, 2, 3, 9, 10 Organ of Corti, 119, 126 of Jacobson, 133, 143 Os orbiculare s. lenticulare, 91 Osseous labyrinth, 98, 99 Ossicula auditus, 89, 96 movements of, 95 Ostium (entrance) pharyngeum, 87 tympanicuni, 86 Otoconia (o5y, utos, ear ; Kovla, dust), 105 Otoliths (ojt(5j ; xfflos, stone), 105, 112 Otter, dilatator iridis of, 33 Outer fibrous layer of retina, 53 Ox, liganientum pectinatum of, 21 Palate, soft, 149 Palatine artery, 144 Palpebral (eyelids), 1 Palpebral arteries, 5, 16 conjunctiva, 4 fascia, 2, 3 ligament, 2, 3 Papilla (nipple) foliata, 149 fungiform, 148 laerimalis, 1, 9 optici, 55, 59 vallata? (vallum, rampart), 148 Papillary arteries, 55 Pars choroidalis iridis, 31 ciliaris retina?, 35, 54, 60 iridica retina;, 31, 35, 54 laerimalis, 9 retinalis iridis, 31 Peribulbar nerves, 151INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART III. 163 Perilymph, 98, 104, 113 Perivascular lymph-space, 26, 56 Petit, canal of, 59, 62, 66 Petrosal artery, 97 nerves, 97 Petroso-squamosal fissure, 84 Petro-tympauic fissure, 81 Phalangeal process, 122 Phalanges, 122 Pharynx, 148 lateral recess of, 87 Pigment granules, 50 Pigmentary layer of retina, 38, 50, 52, 53, 54 Pillars of iris, 21 Pinna, 71 ligaments of, 74 muscles of, 75 uerves of, 76 structure of, 72 vessels of, 76 Pituitary (pituita, phlegm or mucus) mem- brane, 139 Planum semilunatum, 108 Plate, fibrous tympanic, 79 Plexiform layer of retina, 41 Plexus annularis, 22 episcleral venous, 17 fundamental nervous, of cornea, 22 marginal, 7 subepithelial nervous, of cornea, 22 tympanic, 83, 97 venous, of nasal fossre, 140, 145 Plica (fold) semilunaris, 2, 10 Pore, gustatory, 150 Porus (passage) opticus, 36 Post-tarsal veins, 6 Posterior chamber of eye, 66 elastic lamiua, 19 hyaline layer of iris, 33 limiting layer of iris, 33 tarsal glands, 4 Pouches of tympanum, 96 Pretarsal veins, 6 Primary optic vesicle, 50 Process, caudal, 74 phalangeal, 122 Processes, ciliary, 23, 24, 29, 54, 60 of incus, 90 of malleus, 90 Processus brevis, 90 cochleariforinis, 86, 94 Folianus, 90 gracilis (slender), 90, 92 leuticularis (dim. of lens), 90 obtusus, 90 orbicularis, 90 sphenoidalis, 133 Promontory, 83, 96, 102 Pseudo-nucleus, 51, 121 Pnnctum (small hole) lacrimale, 1, 8 Pupil (piqia, small image ; referring to reflected image seen on looking into eye), 31 dilatator muscle of, 32 sphincter muscle of, 32 Pupillary membrane, 34. 66 Purple, visual, 35, 48, 50 Pyramid of tympanum, 85, 94 of vestibule, 99 Quadrate cartilages, 132 Rabbit, olfactory epithelium of, 141 organ of Jacobson of, 144 papilla foliata of, 149 Radial fibres, 50 Radii of eyeball, 15 of lens, 63 Rami of auditory nerve, 108 Raphe {j>a(pri, seam) of semicircular canal, no Recess, lateral of pharynx, 87 spheno-ethmoidal, 138 Recesses of posterior chamber, 62 of tympanum, 96 Recessus cochlearis, 99 epitympanicus, 80, 81 utriculi, 104 Recklinghausen, canals of, 18 Reissner, membrane of, 113, 118, 127 Reptiles, bipolar cells of retina of, 44 ellipsoid of, 49 lagena of, 114 olfactory cells of, 142 retinal coues of, 49 Reticular lamina, 119, 121, 122 Retina (rete, net), n, 14, 35, 154 • epithelium of, 46 hexagonal cells of, 24, 35 intercommunications of elements of, 56 layers of, 38, 52 lymph-spaces of, 56 structure of, 38 sustentacular tissue of, 50 E etzius on gustatory cells, 151 Rhodopsin (foSov, rose ; ityts, appearance), 35, 48 Riolan, muscle of, 2 Rivinus, notch of, 81, 82, 93 Rod-bipolar cells, 43 -ellipsoid, 49 -fibre, 46, 57, 154 -granules, 46 Rods of Corti, 119, 120, 127 Rods, retinal, 46, 47, 50, 52, 54, 57, 154 Rosenmiiller, fossa of, 87 Riidinger on articulation of auditory ossicles, 91 Sac, lachrymal. 7, 9 Saccule, 98, 104, 105, 109, 112, 114 nerve of, 108 Saccus endolymphaticus, 105 Salpingopalatine fold, 87 Salpingo-pharyngeal fold, 87 Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, 89 Salpinx (aa\iriv£, trumpet), 86 Santorini, fissures of, 74, 80 Sappey on ligament of Tenon's capsule, 11 Scala (staircase) tympani, 83, 102, 104 vestibuli, 99, 102, 104 Scarpa, ganglion of, 108 Schlemm, canal of, 21, 34, 66 Schneiderian membrane, 139 Schultze on fovea centralis, 52 Schwalbe on bacillary layer, 50 on canal of Schlemm, 22 on funiculus sclera, 17 Sclerotic ((TKA-qpos, tough) coat, 11, 13, 16, 21, 3°. . Semicircular canals, 98, 99, 100, 105, 109 Sense-epithelium cells, 151INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART III. 1G4 Septum mobile, 130 nasi, 130, 142, 145 artery of, 144 cartilage of, 132 orbitale, 3 transversum ofampullte, 105, 110 Sheath, perivascular, 26, 55 Sheep, ligumcntum pectinatum of, 21 Sinus (hollow, bay) circulus iridis, 21 frontal, 136, 139 lateral, 85 of Maier, 9 of membranous labyrinth, 104 sphenoidal, 139 tympanic, 84 of utricle, 105 Spaces of Fontana, 21, 66 Spheno-ethmoidal recess, 138 Sphenoidal sinus, 139 Spheno-maxillary muscle, 4 Spbeno-palatine artery, 144 Sphincter (crfylyyai, bind) pupilla?, 32 Spider-cells, 40 Spina tympanica, 93 Spine of helix, 74 Spines, tympanic, 81, 82, 93 Spiral canal of cochlea, 102 of modiolus, 104, 124 ganglion, 109, 124, 152 groove, 115 lamina of cochlea, 102, 103, 124 ligament, 113, 117, 119 Spongioblasts, 44, 45 Spot, yellow, 35, 40 Spur of malleus, 90 Stapedial artery, 91 Stapedius muscle, 85, 94, 95, 98 bone of, 94 Stapes (stirrup), 83, 89, 91, 94, 95 Stensen, canal of, 138 Stilling, canal of, 38, 59 Stomata (a-rd/xa, mouth) of iris, 31 Stratum bacillorum (bacillum, small stall*) 8, 46, 47, 54 granularum externum, 38, 46, 52, 53, 54 internum, 38, 41, 52, 54, 57 of horizontal cells, 45 nigrum, 38, 50, 52, 53, 54 opticum, 38, 52, 54 reticulare internum, 38, 41, 43, 44, 52, 54, 57 externum, 38, 43, 45, 47, 52, 57 Stria (flute of column) vascularis, 119 Stroma iridis, 31 Stuart, on hyaloid membrane, 58 Substantia propria of cornea, 17 Sulcus (furrow) olfactorius, 138 sclerse, 10, 17 spiralis, 115 tympanicus, 78 Suspensory ligament of eye, 12 of lens, 24, 31, 59 Sustentacular cells of taste-buds, 150 fibres of ampullary epithelium, 112 tissue of retina, 50 Tapetum, 25 Tarsal arches, 5 cartilage, 1, 2, 12 glands, 3 Tarsal—continued. ligament, 2, 3, 10 posterior, 4 Tarsus (rapirds, wing), 1, 2, 12 Taste-buds, 148, 149, 150 Taste-hair, 151 Taste-organs, 148 literature of, 151 Tectorial (tcclorium, cover) membrane, 120, 123, 127 Tegmen (cover) tympani, 81 Teleostei, cone-fibres of, 47 end-knobs of retina of, 46 Tenon, capsule of, 11 Tensor choroideae, 30 palati, 87, 88 tarsi, 9, 10 tympani, 81, 86, 93, 94, 95, 98 Thin on lens-fibres, 65 Tongue, 148 Tractus spiralis foraminulentus, 102, 108, 124 Tragus, 71 muscle of, 75 Transverse muscle of pinna, 75 Tube, Eustachian, 80, 81, 86, 94, 96 muscles of, 88 vessels and nerves of, 88 Tuber cochlea?, 83 Tubercle of Darwin, 72 Tuberculum supra tragicum, 71 Tubes, corneal, 18 Tunica choroidea, 23 propria of semicircular canals, no Ruyschiana s. chorio-capillaris, 27 sclera, 11 uveas, vasculosa, 11, 23 vaginalis oculi, 11 Tunnel of Corti, 119, 125 Turbinate bodies or Turbinals (turbo, whirl, twist), 134, 137, 142, 145 Turner on olfactory organs of mammals, 130 Tutamina (tutamcn, means of protection) oculi, 1 Tympanic artery, 97 bone, 79 cells, 81 membrane, 78, 79, 81, 90, 93, 95, 96, 98 nerve, 81 plate, fibrous, 79 plexus, 83, 97 spines, 81, 82, 93 sulcus, 78 Tympano-malleolar folds, 82 ligaments, 82 Tympanum (drum), 71, 80. /S'cc also Tym- panic. glands of, 96 mucous membrane of, 95 muscles of, 93 nerves of, 97 recesses or pouches of, 96 secondary membrane of, S3, 104 vessels of, 97 Umbo (boss of shield), 82 Utricle, 98, 99, 104, 108, 109, 112 Uvea (Lat. rendering of payouts x""<af = tunica uviformis, choroid and iris together being compared to the skin of a grape, uva), 35INDEX AND GLOSSARY TO VOLUME III. PART III. Vas spirale, 117 Vasti vorticosa (whorled), 26 Vascular coat of eye, 23 Veins of choroid coat, 26 of ciliary processes, 30 of cochlea, 126 of cornea, 22 of eyelids, 6 of external, auditory canal 79 of iris, 34 of labyrinth, 109 of lachrymal gland, 8 of nasal duct, 10 fossa;, 145 of pinna, 76 post-tarsal, 6 pretarsal, 6 of retina, 55 of sclerotic coat, 17 of tympanum, 97 Veuce vorticosa;, 15 Ventricle ofnares, 139 Vertebrates, sensory cells and fibres of, 152 Vesicle, primary optic, 50 Vessels. See Arteries, Veins, Lymphatics. Vestibule, aqueduct of, 99 Vestibule—continued. of labyrinth, 83, 98, 99 of nasal fossae, 138 Vibrissa1, 130, 138 Visual cells, 46, 154 purple, 35, 48, 50 Vitreous body or humour (humor liquid) 38, 58 Vomerine cartilage, 133, 144 Wax of ear, 79, 80 Yellow spot, 35, 40, 47, 52, 55 Zinn, zonula (dim. of zona, belt) of, 59 Zona arcuata, 117 pectinata, 117 Zone, nuclear, of lens, 65 of oval nuclei, 141 of round nuclei, 141 Zonula ciliaris, 59 of Zinn, 59 Zuckerkaudl on ethmoidal fissures, 136 END OF PART III. BRADBURY, AONKW, <St CO. LD., PRINTERS, WHITEl'tUARS.A LIST OF WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY AND GENERAL SCIENCE, PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., 39, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. 15, EAST 16th ST., NEW YORK. gtcbrnil airtr Studied Harks. ASHBY. NOTES ON PHYSIOLOGY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION. By HENRY ASHBY, M.D. Lond., F.R.C.P., Physician to the General Hospital for Sick Children, Manchester ; formerly Demonstrator of Physiology, Liver- pool School of Medicine. Sixth Edition, thoroughly revised. With 141 Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, price $s. ASHBY AND WRIGHT. THE DISEASES OF CHILD- REN, MEDICAL AND SURGICAL. By HENRY ASHBY, M.D. Lond., F.R.C.P., Physician to the General Hospital for Sick Children, Manchester; Lecturer and Examiner in Diseases of Children in the Victoria University; and G. A. WRIGHT, B.A., M.B. Oxon., F.R.C.S. Eng., Assistant Surgeon to the Manchester Royal Infirmary and Surgeon to the Children's Hospital; Examiner in Surgery in the University of Oxford. Enlarged and Improved Edition. With 178 Illustrations. Svo, price 24s. BARKER. A SHORT MANUAL OF SURGICAL OPERA- TIONS, HAVING SPECIAL REFERENCE TO MANY OF THE NEWER PROCEDURES. By ARTHUR E. J. BARKER, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to University College Hospital, Teacher of Practical Surgery at University College, Professor of Surgery and Pathology at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. With 61 Woodcuts in the Text. Crown 8vo, price 12s. 6d. BENNETT.— WORKS by WILLIAM H. BENNETT, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to St. George's Hospital; Member 0/ the Board 0/ Examiners, Royal College 0/ Surgeons of England. CLINICAL LECTURES ON VARICOSE VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. With 3 Plates. Svo. 6.. ON VARICOCELE: A PRACTICAL TREATISE. With 4 Tables and a Diagram. 8vo. $s. CLINICAL LECTURES ON ABDOMINAL HERNIA: chiefly in relation to Treatment, including the Radical Cure. With 12 Diagrams in the Text. 8vo. 8j. 6d.2 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY BENTLEY. A TEXT-BOOK OF ORGANIC MATERIA MEDICA. Comprising a Description of the Vegetable and Animal Drugs of the British Pharmacopojia, with some others in common use. Arranged Systematically and Especially Designed for Students. By ROBERT BENTLEY, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.L.S. With 62 Illustrations on Wood. Crown 8vo, price 7s. 6d. CLEMOW. THE CHOLERA EPIDEMIC OF 1892 IN THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE. With Notes upon Treatment and Methods of Disinfection in Cholera, and a short account of the Conference on Cholera held in St. Petersburgh in December, 1892. By FRANK CLEMOW, M.D.Edin , Member of the Epidemiological Society of London, &c. Royal 8vo, S.f. COATS. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGY. By JOSEPH COATS, M.D., Pathologist to the Western Infirmary and the Sick Children's Hospital, Glasgow; Lecturer on Pathology in the Western Infirmary; Examiner in Pathology in the University of Glasgow. Second Edition. Revised and mostly Re-writtcn. With 364 Illustrations. 8vo, price y.s. 6d. COOKE.— WORKS by THOMAS COOKE, F.R.C.S. Eng., B.A., B.Sc, M. D. Paris, Senior Assistant Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital. TABLETS OF ANATOMY. Being a Synopsis of Demonstrations given in the Westminster Hospital Medical School in the years 1S71-75. Eighth Thousand, being a selection of the Tablets believed to be most useful to Students generally. Post 4to, price Js. 6d. APHORISMS IN APPLIED ANATOMY AND OPERATIVE SURGERY. Including 100 Typical vivd voce Questions on Surface Marking, &c. Crown 8vo, 3*. 6d. DISSECTION GUIDES. Aiming at Extending and Facilitating such Practical Work in Anatomy as will be specially useful in connection with an ordinary Hospital Curriculum. 8vo, icr. 6d. DICKINSON.— WORKS by W. HOWS HIP DICKINSON, M.D. Cantab., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Medicine at, St. George's Hospital; Consulting Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children. ON RENAL AND URINARY AFFECTIONS. Complete in Three Parts, 8vo, with 12 Plates and 122 Woodcuts. Price £3 4s. 6d. cloth. %* The Parts can also be had separately, each complete in itself, as follows :— Part I.—Diabetes, price \os. 6d. sewed, 12s. cloth. ,, II.—Albuminuria, price £1 sewed, £1 is. cloth. ,, III —Miscellaneous Affections of the Kidneys and Urine, price £1 ictf. sewed, £1 \\s. 6d. cloth. THE TONGUE AS AN INDICATION OF DISEASE; being the Lumleian Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Physicians in March, 1S8S. 8vo, price "js. 6d. THE IIARVEIAN ORATION ON HARVEY IN ANCIENT AND MODERN MEDICINE. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.3 PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN &> CO. DUANE. THE STUDENT'S DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES. Comprising the Pronunciation, Derivation, and Full Explanation of Medical Terms, together with much Collateral Descriptive Matter, numerous Tables, &c. By ALEXANDER DUANE, M.D., Assistant-Surgeon to the New York Ophthalmic and Aural Institute, Reviser of Medical Terms for " Webster's International Dictionary." Svo, 2is. ERICHSEN.—WORKS by JOHN ERIC ERICH SEN, F.R.S., LL.D. (Edin.), Hon. M. Ch. and F.R.C.S. (Ireland), Surgeon Extraordinary to H.M. the Queen; President of University College, London; Fclloiv and Ex-President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England; Emeritus Professor of Surgery in University College; Con- sulting-Surgeon to University College Hosj/ital, and to many other Medical Charities. THE SCIENCE AND ART OF SURGERY; A TREATISE ON SURGICAL INJURIES, DISEASES, AND OPERATIONS. Ninth Edition, Edited by Professor BECK, M.S. & M.B. (Lond.), F.R.C.S., Surgeon to University College Hospital, &c. Illustrated by 1025 Engravings on Wood. 2 Vols. 8vo, price 485. ON CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE, NERVOUS SHOCKS, and other Obscure Injuries of the Nervous System in their Clinical and Medico-Legal Aspects. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6rf. FRANKLAND. MICRO-ORGANISMS IN WATER, THEIR SIGNIFICANCE, IDENTIFICATION, AND REMOVAL. Together with an Account of the Bacteriological Methods Involved in their Investigation. Specially Designed for the Use of those connected with the Sanitary Aspects of Water Supply. By Professor PERCY FRANKLAND, PhD., B.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.S., Fellow of the Chemical Society; and Mrs. PERCY FRANKLAND, Joint Author of "Studies on Some New Micro-Organisms Obtained from Air." [In thep-ess. GAIRDNER and COATS. ON THE DISEASES CLASSIFIED by the REGISTRAR-GENERAL as TABES MESENTERICA. LEC- TURES TO PRACTITIONERS. By W. T. GAIRDNER, M.D., LL.D. On the PATHOLOGY of PHTHISIS PULMONALIS.- By JOSEPH COATS, M.D. With 28 Illustrations. 8vo, price 12s. 6d. GAR ROD.— WORKS by Sir ALFRED BARING GARROD, M.D., F.R.S., &*c. ; Physician Extraordinary to H.M. the Queen; Consulting Physician to King's College Hospital; late Vice-President of the Royal College of Physicians. A TREATISE ON GOUT AND RHEUMATIC GOUT (RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS). Third Edition, thoroughly revised and enlarged ; with 6 Plates, comprising 21 Figures (14 Coloured), and 27 Illustrations engraved on Wood. Svo, price 21s. THE ESSENTIALS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERA- PEUTICS. The Thirteenth Edition, revised and edited, under the super- vision of the Author, by NESTOR TIRARD, M.D. Lond., F.R.C.P., Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics in King's College, London, &c. Crown Svo, price 12s. 6rf.4 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &>c. GRAY. ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. By HENRY GRAY, F.R.S., late Lecturer on Anatomy at St. George's Hospital. The Thirteenth Edition, re-edited by T. PICKERING PICK, Surgeon to St. George's Hospital; Member of the Court of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons of England. With 636 large Woodcut Illustrations, a large proportion of which are Coloured, the Arteries being coloured red, ths Veins blue, and the Nerves yellow. The attachments of the muscles to the bones, in the section on Osteology, are also shown in coloured outline. Royal 8vo, price 36*. HALLIBURTON.— WORKS by W. D. HALLIBURTON, M.D., B.Sc, M.R.C.P., Professor of Physiology at King's College, London; Lecturer on Phy- siology at the London School of Medicine for Women; laic Assistant Professor of Physiology at University College, London. A TEXT-BOOK OF CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. With 104 Illustrations. 8vo, 2%s. ESSENTIALS OF CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGY. 8vo, 5*. *#* This is a book suitable for medical students. It treats of the subject in the same way as Prof. Schafer's " Essentials " treats of Histology. It contains a number of elementary and advanced practical lessons, followed in each case by a brief descriptive account of the facts related to the exercises which are intended to be performed by each member of the class. H ASSALL — WORKS by ARTHUR HLLL HASSALL, M.D., London. THE INHALATION TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION, INCLUDING CONSUMPTION. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, price \2s. 6d. THE NARRATIVE OF A BUSY LIFE : an Autobiography. 8vo. s*. HERON. EVIDENCES OF THE COMMUNICABILITY OF CONSUMPTION. ByG. A. HERON, M.D. (Glas.), F.R.C.P., Phy- sician to the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. 8vo, 7s. 6d. HEWITT. ON SEVERE VOMITING DURING PREGNANCY: a Collection and Analysis of Cases, with Remarks on Treatment. By GRAILY HEWITT, M.D. Lond., F.R.C.P., F.R.S. Ed., Emeritus Professor of Obstetric Medicine, University College; Consulting Obstetric Physician to University College Hospital, &c, &c. Svo, 6s. HOLMES. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, Theoretical and Practical. Edited by TIMOTHY HOLMES, M.A.; and J. W. HULKE, F.R.S., Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. Third Edition, in Three Volumes, with Coloured Plates and numerous Illustrations. 3 Vols., royal Svo, price £4 4s.PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN &* CO, 5 LANGTON. ABDOMINAL HERNIA. By JOHN LANGTON, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Senior Surgeon to the City of London Truss Society, Member of the Council and Court of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, With numerous Illustrations. [In the press. LIVEING.— WORKS by ROBERT LIVEING, M.A. & M.D. Cantab., F.R.C.P. Lond., &>c, Physician to the Department for Diseases of the Skin at the Middlesex Hospital, &*c. HANDBOOK ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. With especial reference to Diagnosis and Treatment. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Fcap. 8vo, price $s. ELEPHANTIASIS GR/ECORUM, OR TRUE LEPROSY; Being the Goulstonian Lectures for 1873. Cr. 8vo, 4s, 6d. LONGMORc.— PFORKS by Surgeon-General Sir T. LONGMORE, C.B., F.R.C.S., Honorary Surgeon to H.M. Queen Victoria; Professor of Military Surgery in the Army Medical School. THE ILLUSTRATED OPTICAL MANUAL; or, HAND- BOOK OF INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE GUIDANCE OF SURGEONS IN TESTING QUALITY AND RANGE OF VISION, and in Distinguishing and Dealing with Optical DEFECTS IN GENERAL. Illustrated by 74 Drawings and Diagrams by Inspector-General Dr. Macdonald, R.N., F.R.S., C.B. Fourth Edition. 8vo, price 14J. GUNSHOT INJURIES. Their History, Characteristic Features, Com- plications, and General Treatment ; with Statistics concerning them as they are met with in Warfare. With 58 Illustrations. 8vo, price 31J. 6d. MURCHISON.— WORKS by CHARLES MURCHISON, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., &C., Fellcnv of the Royal College of Physicians; late Physician and Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Me Heine, St. Thomas's Hospital. A TREATISE ON THE CONTINUED FEVERS OF GREAT BRITAIN. Edited by W. CAYLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. With 6 Coloured Plates and Lithographs, 19 Diagrams and 20 Woodcut Illustrations. 8vo, price 25^. CLINICAL LECTURES ON DISEASES OF THE LIVER, JAUNDICE, AND ABDOMINAL DROPSY; Including the Croon- ian Lectures on Functional Derangements of the Liver, delivered at the Royal College of Physicians in 1874. Revised by T. LAUDER BRUNTON, M.D. 8vo, price 24J.6 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &*c. NEWMAN. ON THE DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY AMENABLE TO SURGICAL TREATMENT. Lectures to Practitioners. By DAVID NEWMAN, M.D., Surgeon to the Western Infirmary Out-Door Department; Pathologist and Lecturer on Pathology at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary; Examiner in Pathology in the University of Glasgow ; Vice-President Glasgow Pathological and Clinical Society. Svo, price 16s. OWEN. A MANUAL OF ANATOMY FOR SENIOR STUDENTS. By EDMUND OWEN, M.B., F.R.S.C., Senior Surgeon to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, London, and co-Lecturer on Surgery, late Lecturer on Anatomy in its Medical School. With 210 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, price 12s. 6J. PAGET.— WORKS by Sir JAMES PAGET, Bart, F.R.S., D.C.L. Oxon., LL.D. Cantab., &*c, Sergeant-Surgeon to the Queen, Surgeon to the Prinze of Wales, Consulting Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. LECTURES ON SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, Delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Fourth Edition, re-edited by the AUTHOR and W. TURNER, M.B. 8vo, with 131 Woodcuts, price 21s. CLINICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Edited by F. HOWARD MARSH, Assistant-Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Second Editicn, revised. Svo, price 15s. STUDIES OF OLD CASE-BOOKS. 8vo, Ss. 6d. POOLE. COOKERY FOR THE DIABETIC. By W. II. and Mrs. POOLE. With Preface by Dr. PAVY. Fcap. Svo. 2s. 6J. POORE. ESSAYS ON RURAL HYGIENE. By GEORGE VIVIAN POORE, M.D., F.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. QUAIN. A DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE; Including General Pathology, General Therapeutics, Hygiene, and the Diseases peculiar to Women and Children. By Various Writers. Edited by Sir RICHARD QUAIN, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., Physician Extraordinary to H.M. the Queen, Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Consulting Physician to the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton. Seventeenth Thousand; pp. 1,836, with 138 Illustrations engraved on wood. 1 Vol. medium Svo, price 31 s. (>d. cloth, To be had also in Two Volumes, price 34j. cloth,7 PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN & CO. QUAIN. QUAIN'S (JONES) ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The Tenth Edition. Edited by EDWARD ALBERT SCHAFER, F.R.S , Professor of Physiology and Histology in University College, London ; and GEORGE DANCER THANE, Professor of Anatomy in University College, London. (In three volumes.) Vol. I., Part I. EMBRYOLOGY. By Professor SCHAFER. Illustrated by 200 Engravings, many of which are coloured. Royal 8vo, gs. [Ready. Vol. I., Part II. GENERAL ANATOMY OR HISTOLOGY. By Professor SCHAFER. Illustrated by nearly 500 Engravings, many of which are coloured. Royal 8vo, 1 is. 6a. [Ready. Vol. IT., Part I. OSTEOLOGY. By Professor THANE. Illustrated by 16S Engravings. Royal 8vo, gs. [Ready. Vol. II., Part II. ARTHROLOGY, MYOLOGY, ANGEIOLOGY. By Professor TPlANE. Illustrated by 255 Engravings, many of which are Coloured. Royal 8vo, 18s. [Ready. Vol. III., Part I. SPINAL CORD AND BRAIN. By Proressor SCHAFER. Illustrated by 139 Engravings. Royal 8vo, 12s. 6d. [Ready. Vol. III., Part II. PERIPHERAL NERVES & SENSE ORGANS. [In preparation. Vol. HI., Part III. VISCERA. [/// preparation. RICHARDSON. THE ASCLEPIAD. ABookof Original Research in the Science, Art, and Literature of Medicine. By BENJAMIN WARD RICHARDSON, M.D., F.R.S. Published Quarterly, price 2s. 6d. Volumes for 1S84, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891, & 1892. 8vo, price 12s. 6d. each. SCHAFER. THE ESSENTIALS OF HISTOLOGY: Descrip- tive and Practical. For the Use of Students. By E. A. Sciiafer, F.R.S., Jodreil Professor of Physiology in University College, London ; Editor of the Histological Portion of Quain's "Anatomy." Illustrated by more than 300 Figures, many of which are new. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Svo, Js. 6d. (Interleaved, ior) SCHENK. MANUAL OF BACTERIOLOGY. For Practitioners and Students. With especial reference to Practical Methods. By Dr. S. L. SCHENK, Professor (Extraordinary) in the University of Vienna. Trans- lated from the German, with an Appendix, by W. R. DAWSON, B.A., M.D., Univ. Dub. ; late University Travelling Prizeman in Medicine. With 100 Illustrations, some of which are coloured. 8vo, 10s. net.WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &*c. 8 SEMPLE. ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDIC A AND THERAPEUTICS. Including the whole of the Remedies of the British Pharmacopoeia of 1885 and its Appendix of 1890. With 440 Illustrations. By C. E. ARMAND SEMPLE, B.A., M.B. Camb., L.S.A., M.R.C.P. Lond. ; Member of the Court of Examiners, and late Senior Examiner in Arts at Apothecaries' Hall, &c. Crown 8vo, price 10s. 6J. SISLEY.— WORKS by RICHARD SISLEY, M.D. EPIDEMIC INFLUENZA. Notes on its Origin and Method of Spread. Royal 8vo, js. 6d, A STUDY OF INFLUENZA, and the Laws of England concerning Infectious Diseases. A Paper read before the Society of Medical Officers of Health, January 18. 1892, with Appendix of Counsel's Opinion, &c. 8vo, 3*. 6flT. _ SMALE AND COLYER. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE TEETH, including Pathology and Treatment: a Manual of Practical Dentistry for Students and Practitioners. By MORTON SMALE, M.R.C.S., L.S. A., L.D.S., Dental Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, Dean of the School, Dental Hospital of London, &c. ; and J. F. COLYER, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L. D.S., Assistant Dental Surgeon to Charing Cross Hospital, and Assistant Dental Surgeon to the Dental Hospital of London. With 334 Illustrations. Large Crown 8vo, 15^ SMITH (H. F.). THE HANDBOOK FOR MID WIVES. By HENRY FLY SMITH, B.A., M.B. Oxon., M.R.C.S. Second Edition. With 41 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, price $s. STEEL— WORKS by JOHN HENRY STEEL, F.RC.V.S., F.Z.S., A.V.D., late Professor of Veterinary Science and Principal of Bombay Veterinary College. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE DOG; being a Manual of Canine Pathology. Especially adapted for the use of Veterinary Practitioners and Students. 88 Illustrations. Svo, ioj. 6d. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE OX; being a Manual of Bovine Pathology specially adapted for the use of Veterinary Practitioners and Students. 2 Plates and 117 Woodcuts. Svo, 151. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE SHEEP; being a Manual of Ovine Pathology for the use of Veterinary Practitioners and Students. With Coloured Plate, and 99 Woodcuts. Svo, 12s. "STONEHENGE." THE DOG IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. By " STONEHENGE." With 84 Wood Engravings. Square crown Svo, p. 6d. THORNTON. HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Byjohn Thornton, M.A., Author of "Elementary Physiography," "Advanced Physiography," &c. With 267 Illustrations, some of which are Coloured. Crown Svo, 6s.PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN &* CO. 9 WALLER. AN INTRODUCTION TO HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By AUGUSTUS D. WALLER, M.D., Lecturer on Physiology at St. Mary's Hospital Medical School, London ; late External Examiner at the Victorian University. Second Edition, Revised. With 305 Illustrations. 8vo, iSs. WILKS AND MOXON. LECTURES ON PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. By SAMUEL WILKS, M.D., F.R.S., Consulting Physician to, and formerly Lecturer on Medicine and Pathology at, Guy's Hospital, and the late WALTER MOXON, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and some time Lecturer on Pathology at, Guy's Hospital. Third Edition, thoroughly Re- vised. By SAMUEL WILKS, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S. 8vo, i8j. WILLIAMS. PULMONARY CONSUMPTION: ITS ETIO- LOGY, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT. With an Analysis of 1,000 Cases to Exemplify its Duration and Modes of Arrest. By C. J. B. WILLIAMS, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Senior Consulting Physician to the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton; and CHARLES THEODORE WILLIAMS, M.A., M.D. Oxon., F.R.C.P., Senior Physician to the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton. Second Edition, Enlarged and Re-written by Dr. C. THEODORE WILLIAMS. With 4 Coloured Plates and 10 Woodcuts. 8vo, \6s. YOU ATT.— WORKS by WILLI A M YO UA TT. THE HORSE. Revised and Enlarged by W. WATSON, M.R.C.V.S. Woodcuts. 8vo, Js. 6d, THE DOG. Revised and Enlarged. WToodcuts. 8vo, 6s. <&&ntxzl Seitntxfxc Marks. ARNOTT. THE ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS OR NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. By NEIL ARNOTT, M.D. Edited by A. BAIN, LL.D. and A. S. TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S. Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. BENNETT AND MURRAY. A HANDBOOK OF CRYP- TOGAMIC BOTANY. By A. W. BENNETT, M.A., B.Sc, F.L.S., and GEORGE R. MILNE MURRAY, F.L.S. With 378 Illustrations. 8vo, 16s. CLERKE. THE SYSTEM OF THE STARS. By AGNES M. CLERKE, Author of " A History of Astronomy during the Nineteenth Century." With 6 Plates and Numerous Illustrations. 8vo, 2U.io GENERAL SCIENTIFIC WORKS CLODD. THE STORY OF CREATION. A Plain Account of Evolution. By EDWARD CLODD, Author of "The Childhood of the World," &c. With 77 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, y. 6d. CROOKES. SELECT METHODS IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS (chiefly Inorganic). By W. CROOKES, F.R.S., V.P.C.S., Editor of "The Chemical News." Second Edition, re-written and greatly enlarged. Illustrated with 37 Woodcuts. 8vo, 24*. CULLEY. A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL TELEGRAPHY. By R. S. CULLEY, M.I.C.E., late Engineer-in-Chief of Telegraphs to the Post Office. With 135 Woodcuts and 17 Plates, 8vo, 16s. EARL. THE ELEMENTS OF LABORATORY WORK. A Course of Natural Science for Schools. By A. G. EARL, M.A., F.C.S., late Scholar of Christ College, Cambridge; Science Master at Tonbridge School. With 57 Diagrams and numerous Exercises and Questions. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. GANOT. ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON PHYSICS; Experimental and Applied, for the use of Colleges and Schools. Translated and edited from Ganot's Elements de Physique (with the Author's sanction) by E. ATKINSON, Ph.D., F.C.S., Professor of Experimental Science, Staff College, Sandhurst. Fourteenth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 9 Coloured Plates and 1,028 Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 15J. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY FOR GENERAL READERS AND YOUNG PERSONS; Being a Course of Physics divested of Mathematical Formulae, and expressed in the language of daily life. Translated from Ganot's Cdurs de Physique (with the Author's sanction) by E. ATKINSON, Ph.D., F.C.S. Seventh Edition, carefully revised; with 37 pages of New Matter, 7 Plates, 569 Woodcuts, and an Appendix of Questions. Crown 8vo, "js. 6d. GOODEVE.— WORKS by T. M. GOODEVE, M.A., BatTtsler-al- Law ; Professor of Mechanics at the Normal School of Science and the Royal School of Mines. PRINCIPLES OF MECHANICS. New Edition, re written and enlarged. With 253 Woodcuts and numerous Examples. Crown Svo, 6s. THE ELEMENTS OF MECHANISM. New Edition, re-written and enlarged. With 342 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 6s. A MANUAL OF MECHANICS : an Elementary Text-Book for Students of Applied Mechanics. With 13S Illustrations and Diagrams, and 141 Examples taken from the Science Department Examination Papers, with Answers. Fcp. Svo, 2s. 6d,PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN & CO. u HELMHOLTZ.— WORKS by HERMANN L. F. HELMHOLTZ, M.D., Professor of Physics in the University of Berlin. ON THE SENSATIONS OF TONE AS A PHYSIOLOGICAL BASIS FOR THE THEORY OF MUSIC. Second English Edition ; with numerous additional Notes, and a new Additional Appendix, bringing down information to 1885, and specially adapted to the use of Musical Students. By ALEXANDER J. ELLIS, B.A., F.R.S., F.S.A., &c, formerly Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. With 68 Figures engraved on Wood, and 42 Passages in Musical Notes. Royal 8vo, 28^. POPULAR LECTURES ON SCIENTIFIC SUBJECTS. With 68 Woodcuts. 2 Vols, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. each. HERSCHEL. OUTLINES OF ASTRONOMY. By Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL, Bart., K.H., &c, Member of the Institute of France. Twelfth Ediuon, with 9 Plates, and numerous Diagrams. 8vo, 12:. HUDSON AND GOSSE. THE ROTIFERA OR 'WHEEL ANIMALCULES.' By C. T. HUDSON, LL.D., and P. H. GOSSE, F.R.S. With 30 Coloured and 4 Uncoloured Plates. In 6 Parts. 4to, price 10s. 6d. each; Supplement, 12s. 6d. Complete in Two Volumes, with Supplement, 4to, £4 4s. *** The Plates in the Supplement contain figures of almost all the Foreign Species, as well as of the British Species, that have been discovered since the original publication of Vols. I. and II. IRVING. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL STUDIES IN ROCK- MET AMORPHISM, based on the Thesis written for the D.Sc. Degree in the University of London, 1888. By the Rev. A. IRVING, D.Sc. Lond., Senior Science Master at Wellington College. 8vo, 5-r. JORDAN. THE OCEAN : A Treatise on Ocean Currents and Tides and their Causes. By WILLIAM LEIGHTON JORDAN, F.R.G.S. 8vo, 21s. KOLBE. A SHORT TEXT-BOOK OF INORGANIC CHE- MISTRY. By Dr. HERMANN KOLBE, late Professor of Chemistry in the University of Leipzig. Translated and Edited by T. S. HUM PIDGE, Ph.D., B.Sc. (Lond.), late Professor of Chemistry and Physics in the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth. New Edition. Revised by H. Lloyd-Snape, Ph.D., D.Sc. (Lond.), Professor of Chemistry in the Uni- versity College of Wales, Aberystwyth. W:ith a Coloured Table of Spectra and 66 Woodcuts. Crown 8yo, 8s, 6<(,LADD.-JVOP.K~S by GEORGE T. LADD, Professor of Philosophy in Yale University. ELEMENTS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY: A TREATISE OF THE ACTIVITIES AND NATURE OF THE MIND FROM THE PHYSICAL AND EXPERI- MENTAL POINT OF VIEW. With 113 Illustrations. 8vo, price 213. OUTLINES OF PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. With numerous Illustrations. 8vo. \2s. LARDEN. ELECTRICITY FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES. With numerous Questions and Examples with Answers, and 214 Illustrations and Diagrams. By W. LARDEN, M.A. Crown 8vo, 6s. LINDLEY AND MOORE. THE TREASURY OF BOTANY, OR POPULAR DICTIONARY OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM : with which is incorporated a Glossary of Botanical Terms. Edited by J. LINDLEY, M.D., F.R.S., and T. MOORE, F.L.S. With 20 Steel Plates, and numerous Woodcuts. 2 Parts, fcp. 8vo. price 12s. LOUDON. AN ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PLANTS. By j. c. LOUDON. Comprising the Specific Character, Description, Culture, His- tory, Application in the Arts, and every other desirable particular respecting all the plants indigenous to, cultivated in, or introduced into, Britain. Cor- rected by Mrs. LOUDON. 8vo, with above 12,000 Woodcuts, price 42s. MARTIN. NAVIGATION AND NAUTICAL ASTRONOMY. Compiled by Staff-Commander W. R. MARTIN. R.N., Instructor in Surveying, Navigation, and Compass Adjustment; Lectiner on Meteorology at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich. Sanctioned for use in the Royal Navy by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. Royal 8vo, iSs. MENDELEEFF. THE PRINCIPLES OF CHEMISTRY. By D. MENDELEEFF, Professor of Chemistry in the University of St. Petersburg. Translated by GEORGE KAMENSKY, A.R.S.M. of the Imperial Mint, St. Petersburg, and Edited by A. J. GREENAWAY, F.I.C., Sub-Editor of the Journal of the Chemical Society. With 97 Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo, 36s. MEYER. OUTLINES OF THEORETICAL CHEMISTRY. By LOTHAR MEYER, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Tubin- gen. Translated by Professors P. PHILLIPS BEDSON, D.Sc, and \Y. CARLETON WILLIAMS, B.Sc. Svo, gs.PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN S- CO. '3 Part IV. — Chemistry of Carbon Compounds, i,s. MILLER.— WORKS by WILLIAM ALLEN MILLER, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., late Professor of Chemistry in King's College, London. THE ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, Theoretical and Practical. Part II. INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. Sixth Edition, revised throughout, with Additions by C. E. GROVES, Fellow of the Che- mical Societies of London, Paris, and Berlin. With 376 Woodcuts. 8vo, price 24?. PART III. ORGANIC CHEMISTRY, or the Chemistry of Carbon Compounds. Hydrocarbons, Alcohols, Ethers, Aldehides and Paraffinoid Acids. Fifth Edition, revised and in great part re-written, by H. E. ARMSTRONG, F.R.S., and C. E. GROVES, F.C.S. Svo, price 31 j. id. MITCHELL. MANUAL OF PRACTICAL ASSAYING. By JOHN MITCHELL, F.C.S. Sixth Edition. Edited by W. CROOKES, F.R.S. With 201 Woodcuts. Svo, 31J. 6d. MORGAN. ANIMAL BIOLOGY. An Elementary Text Book. By C. LLOYD MORGAN, Professor of Animal Biology and Geology in University College, Bristol. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. ODLING. A COURSE OF PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, Arranged for the use of Medical Students, with express reference to the Thrte Months' Summer Practice. By WILLIAM ODLING, M.A., F.R.S. With 71 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 6s. OSTWALD. SOLUTIONS. By W. OSTWALD, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Le'pzig. Being the Fourth Book, with some additions, of the Second Edition of Ostwald's " Lehrbuch der Allgemeinen Chemie." Translated by M. M. PATTISON MUIR, Professor of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. Svo, 10s. 6d. PAYEN. INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY; A Manual for use in Tech- nical Colleges or Schools, also for Manufacturers and others, based on a Translation of Stohmann and Engler's German Edition of Payen's Precis de Chimie Indiistrielle. Edited and supplemented with Chapters on the Chemistry of the Metals, &c, by B. H. PAUL, Ph.D. With 698 Woodcuts. 8vo, 42*. REYNOLDS. EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY for Junior Students. By J. EMERSON REYNOLDS, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Univ. of Dublin. Fcp. Svo, with numerous Woodcuts. Part I.—Introductory, is. 6d. Part II.—Non-Metals, with an Appendix on Systematic Testing for Acids, 2s. 6d. Part III.—Metals and Allied Bodies, 3s. 6d.GENERAL SCIENTIFIC WORKS 14 4 PROCTOR.— WORKS by RICHARD A. PROCTOR. OLD AND NEW ASTRO- NOMY. In 12 Parts. Price 2s. 6d. each ; supplementary section, is. ; complete, 36s, cloth. LIGHT SCIENCE FOR LEISURE HOURS; Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects, Natural Phenomena, &c. 3 Vols, crown 8vo, $s. each. THE ORBS AROUND US ; a Series of Essays on the Moon and Planets, Meteors, and Comets. With Chart and Diagrams, crown 8vo, 5-r. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. OTHER WORLDS THAN OURS ; The Plurality of Worlds Studied under the Light of Recent Scientific Researches. With 14 Illustrations, crown 8vo, $s. Cheap Edition, crown Svo. 3s. 6d. THE MOON ; her Motions, As- pects, Scenery, and Physical Condition. With Plates, Charts, Woodcuts, and Lunar Photo- graphs, crown 8vo, $s. UNIVERSE OF STARS; Pre- senting Researches into and New Views respecting the Constitution of the Heavens. With 22 Charts and 22 Diagrams, 8vo. 10s. 6d. LARGER STAR ATLAS for the Library, in 12 Circular Maps, with Introduction and 2 Index Pages. Folio, 15s., or Maps only, 12s. 6d. NEW STAR ATLAS for the Library, the School, and the Ob- servatory, in 12 Circular Maps (with 2 Index Plates). Crown 8vo, $s. THE STUDENT'S ATLAS. In 12 Circular Maps on a Uni- form Projection and 1 Scale, with 2 Index Maps. Intended as a vade-mecum for the Student of History, Travel, Geography, Geology, and Political Economy. With a letter-press Introduction illustrated by stveral cuts. $s. ELEMENTARY PHYSICAL CEOGRAPHY. With 33 Maps and Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo, is. 6d. LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY ASTRONOMY; with Hints for Young Tclescopists. With 47 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo, is. 6d. FIRST STEPS IN GEOME- TRY : a Series of Hints for the Solution of Geometrical Pro- blems ; with Notes on Euclid, useful Working Propositions, and many Examples. Fcp. 8vo, y. 6d. EASY LESSONS IN THE DIFFERENTIAL CALCU- LUS : indicating from the Outset the Utility of the Processes called Differentiation and Integration. Fcp. 8vo, 2s. 6d. THE STARS IN THEIR SEA- SONS. An Easy Guide to a Knowledge of the Star Groups, in 12 Large Maps. Imperial 8vo, $s. STAR PRIMER. Showing the Starry Sky Week by Week, in 24 Hourly Maps. Crown 4to, 2s. 6d. ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects. Crown, 3j. 6d. HOW TO PLAY WHIST: WITH THE LAWS AND ETI- QUETTE OF WHIST. Crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. HOME WHIST : an Easy Guide to Correct Play. i6mo, is. OUR PLACE AMONG INFI- NITIES. A Series of Essays contrasting our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infini- ties around us. Crown Svo, 5-f. STRENGTH AND HAPPI- NESS. Crown Svo, [Continued.i PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS, GREEN & CO. IS PROCTOR.— WORKS by RICHARD A. PROCTOR—continued. STRENGTH: How to get Strong J and keep Strong, with Chapters on Rowing and Swimming, Fat, Age, and the Waist. With 9 Il- lustrations. Crown Svo, 2s. THE EXPANSE of HEAVEN. Essays on the Wonders of the Firmament. Crown Svo, 5-r. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, 3*. 6d. \ THE GREAT PYRAMID, OB- SERVATORY, TOMB, AND TEMPLE. With Illustrations. Crown Svo, $s. PLEASANT WAYS IN SCIENCE. Crown Svo, $s. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, y. 6d. MYTHS AND MARVELS OF ASTRONOMY. Crown Svo, 5s. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, 3-f. 6d. CHANCE AND LUCK; a Dis- cussion of the Laws of Luck, Coincidences, Wagers, Lotteries, and the Fallacies of Cambling, &c. Crown Svo, 2s. boards, 2s. 6d. cloth. NATURE STUDIES. By Grant Allen, A. Wilson, T. Foster, E. Cloud, and R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, $s. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, 3.?. 6d. LEISURE READINGS. ByE. Clodd, A. Wilson, T. Foster, A. C. Runyard, and R. A. Proctor. Crown Svo, $s. SCOTT. WEATHER CHARTS AND STORM WARNINGS. By ROBERT H. SCOTT, M.A., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6j. SLINGO AND BROOKER. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING FOR ELECTRIC LIGHT ARTISANS AND STUDENTS. (Embracing those branches prescribed in the Syllabus issued by the City and Guilds Technical Institute.) By W. SLINGO, Principal of the Telegraphists' School of Science, &c, &c, and A. BROOKER, Instructor on Electrical Engineering at the Telegraphists' School of Science. With 307 Illustrations. Crown Svo, io.r. 6d. SMITH. GRAPHICS; OR, THE ART OF CALCULATION BY DRAWING LINES, applied to Mathematics, Theoretical Me- chanics and Engineering, including the Kinetics and Dynamics of Machinery, and the Statics of Machines, Bridges, Roofs, and other Engineering Structures. By ROBERT H. SMITH, Professor of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Mason Science College, Birmingham. Part I. Text, with separate Atlas of Plates—Arithmetic, Algebra, Trigonometry, Vector, and Locor Addition, Machine Kinematics, and Statics of Flat and Solid Structures. Svo, i$s. THORPE. A DICTIONARY OF APPLIED CHEMISTRY. By T. E. THORPE, B.Sc. (Vict.), Ph.D., F.R.S., Treas. C.S., Professor of Chemistry in the Royal College of Science, London. Assisted by Eminent Contributors. To be published in 3 vols. 8vo. Vols. I. and II. £2 2s. each, Vol. III. £3 3>.GENERAL SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 16 TYNDALL.—WORKS by JOHN TYNDALL, F.R.S., &>c. FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE. 2 Vols. Crown Svo, l6s. NEW FRAGMENTS. Crown Svo, lot. 6d. HEAT A MODE OF MOTION. Crown Svo, 12s. SOUND. With 204 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, iox. 6d. RESEARCHES ON DIAMAGNETISM AND MAGNE-CRYS- TALLIC ACTION, including the question of Diamagnetic Polarity. Crown 8vo, 12s. ESSAYS ON THE FLOATING-MATTER OF THE AIR in relation to Putrefaction and Infection. With 24 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, ,s. 6d. LECTURES ON LIGHT, delivered in America in 1872 and 1S73. With 57 Diagrams. Crown Svo, 5s. LESSONS IN ELECTRICITY AT THE ROYAL INSTITU- TION, 1S75-76. With 58 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. NOTES OF A COURSE OF SEVEN LECTURES ON ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA AND THEORIES, delivered at the Royal Institution. Crown Svo, is. 6d. NOTES OF A COURSE OF NINE LECTURES ON LIGHT, delivered at the Royal Institution. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. FARADAY AS A DISCOVERER. Crown Svo, 3,. 6d- WATTS' DICTIONARY OF CHEMISTRY. Revised and entirely Re-written by H. FORSTER MORLEY, M.A., D.Sc, Fellow of, and lately Assistant-Professor of Chemistry in, University College, London ; and M. M PATTISON MUIR, M.A., F.R.S.E., Fellow, and Prelector in Chemistry, of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. Assisted by Eminent Contributors. To be Published in 4 Vols. 8vo. Vols. I. II. 42^ each. Vol. III. 50.C [Now ready. WEBB. CELESTIAL OBJECTS FOR COMMON TELESCOPES. By the Rev. T. W. WEBB, M.A., F.R.A.S., Vicar of Hardwick, Hereford- shire. Fifth Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged by the Rev. T. E. ESPIN, M.A., F.R.A.S. (Two Volumes.) Vol. I. now ready. With Portrait and a Reminiscence of the Author, 2 Plates, and numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 6s. WRIGHT. OPTICAL PROJECTION: A Treatise on the Use of the Lantern in Exhibition and Scientific Demonstration. By LEWIS WRIGHT, Author of "Light : a Course of Experimental Optics." With 232 Illustra- tions. Crown Svo, 6s. 5000.1.94. KADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, WH1TEFKIARS.