589 BRANCHIAL FISSURES AND ARCHES. CHAP.XLI.] Von Baer. Reichert, however, considers that it is formed in a somewhat diflFerent manner to that above described."^ In mammalia, the formation of the amnion occurs at a very early period, usually within twenty-four hours after the first appearance of the primitive trace. About the twentieth day the ovum is about ten, and the embryo is between three and four lines in length. The ^dlli of the chorion are beginning to make their appearance, and gradually extend themselves round the ovum. That portion, however, which is im- mediately beneath the embryo is the last part of the surface upon which villi appear, while the two ends of the ovum always remain smooth and uncovered with villi. By this time, with the exception of their posterior portion, the laminae dorsales have coalesced, and the vertebral plates have increased in number. The position of the eye and ear can be determined, and the anterior surface of the body is being gradually closed in by the convergence of the ventral lamince which spring from the under part of the dorsal laminae. At length the body of the embryo appears entirely pinched off as it were, and is only connected with the yolk sac or iimbilical vesicle by a narrow constricted portion, the omphalo-enteric duct. Branchial Fissures and Arches.—At this period, three branchial fissures and three visceral arches may be detected. The term branchial arch is a bad one, since it conveys the idea that, at a certain period, branchiae arc de- veloped in the higher vertebrata, which is not the case. The only structures representing the branchial vessels of fishes are branches which unite to form the descending aorta. In fishes, the arches become permanent, and are sur- mounted by branchial laminae. They are five in number; at a very early period there are six, but one is not further developed. In the amphibia a similar process takes place, but here the branchiae waste away wheu the animal assumes its adult form. Usually only two, very rarely four, arches remain in reptiles; and in birds, mammalia, and man, only one is persistent. Heart and large Arteries.—About this time also the heart and large vessels are formed. The heart appears first in the form of a narrow elongated Visceral or branchial arclies of an embryo dog, after liisclioff. «. iimin ; b. eyes; c. d. riglit and left auricles; e. f. right andleft ventricles; 17. aorta dividing into aortic arches. I, 2, 3, 4, corresponding visceral or branchial arches. Muller's Physiology, translated by Dr. Baly, p. 1552.