towards their bases, while their CHAP. XXXIV.] STRAIGHT PORTION OF THE TUBES. 491 from the apices of the pyramids 7<j pyramid, the large tubes near the apex may be said to divide dichotomouslv, so that the number of the individual tubes, which would be seen in a transverse p<v- 235- section, increases as we proceed diameter gradually diminishes. In the latter situation there may be many thousand tubes, while the number of openings upon the extremity of the mamilla are comparatively very few in number. The tubes at their ,3,ti,„ „f, „f the hamnn kui- Orifices vary in diameter, from "ey, about a quarter of an inch from the papilla. 'a. Section of largest tubes. 6. Section of smaller the -T^fl- to the of an inch, tubes at a point previous to their opening into a larger J 0 0 u 0 •» one. I he ihin delicate epithelium approaching to the while towards the base of the squamous variety, is seen lining this straight portion of the uriuiferous tubes, c. Small vessels which pyramid they do not exceed ramifybetween the tubes in the tran.sparent granular _ matrix, d. Jtagnified about 120 diameters. ■gi-g- of an inch. The aggregate capacity of the tubes at the base of a cone is enormously greater than that of the much smaller number of somewhat larger tubes at their orifices. The epithelium in this situation differs in character from that in the convoluted portion of the ^.^ 230 tubes; the cells are smaller, more transparent, and approach more nearly to the scaly or tesselated variety. They seem rather to serve as a protective layer than to share in the secreting func- tion. The cells here are usually very thin, approaching to squa- mous epithelium in character; and although the total diameter of the tube is less than tliat of the convoluted portion, the diameter of the central canal is greater. Vessels of the Kidney. — The renal arteries divide into four or ""e"'fi«d about so diameters five branches, which enter the kidney at the hilum between the vein and the ureter. These vessels are surrounded with a quantity of fat. They pass between the papillae to the bases of the cones, K K 2 Malpighian tuft from the horse. The injection has penetrated only to the capillaries, o. The artery, a.f. One of its terminal twigs (or the afferent vessel, d. The dilatation and mode of breaking up of the terminal twig after entering the capsule. The division of the tuft into lobes, I. I, I, is well seen. i. Intervals between the