^00 DIGESTION. [chap. xxv. wound. A clog, treated in this way, lived three months; at first he became very thin, and lost strengtli; but he recovered his strength, but did not completely gain his condition. It appears, from a private communication made by Schwann to Frerich,* that that distinguished Professor was induced, by these objections of Blondlot, to repeat his experiments, which he did to the number of thirty, and he took the precaution of keeping a canula in the wound. The animals died as before, but one lived a year, another four months; immediately after the operation they lost weight, but after a time the emaciation ceased, and the dogs recovered, but never reached their weight previous to the operation. The results of these experiments denote that the bile cannot be exclusively an excretion, and, taken along with the facts already referred to, make strongly against this doctrine. But as the excrements of all, or nearly all animals, and also the meconium, or the feculent matter found in the bowels of the foetus in utero, contain in certain proportion, the elements of the bile, we are bound to infer, that a portion of the bile is thrown out of the system, along with the refuse or undigested parts of the food. And that only a portion of it, and that a small one, is thus excreted seems evident, because the quantity of bile contained in the faeces bears a very trifling proportion to the amount secreted. Thus, Berzelius found only 9 parts bile in 1000 parts of fresh human fa3ces; if we take the average quantity of tiie fseces expelled in the day to be five ounces, this would yield about twenty-one grains of dried bile, equivalent to 210 grains of fresh bile ; but the lowest estimate of the quantity daily secreted by the liver is between six and eight ounces, which exceeds that of the fajces discharged. If, then, it be admitted that only a certain portion of the bile is excrementitious, it remains to inquire what becomes of the remain- der, and what purpose it may serve ? Liebig suggests that it is absorbed from the intestine, and carried into the circulation, where, by chemical union with the oxygen introduced in respiration, it forms carbonic acid, and generates heat. The liver, according to this view, secretes from the venous blood a material, which, on reabsorption, serves as food for the calorifa- cient process. It is not likely that this absorption takes place by the veins, for if so, we should find the secreted material carried back again through the very same vascular channels from which but a short time previously it had been secreted ; an arrangement * Art. Verdauung, Wagner's Handworterbueli. This author states tliat Nassc operated on a dog in a similar way, and that tlie animal lived nearly six months.