CHAP. XXXVI.] 527 METAGENESIS. Fig. 255. side turned towards each other; the swelling increases until a sort of process is formed from each : these at length meet; the walls be- come fused, the cavities continuous, and the contents of the two cells become mixed. From this admixture a new bodj^, termed a spore or sporangium, results, by the development of which the new plant is formed. In the higher plants and in animals, dis- tinct organs are set apart for the formation of the sperm cells and germ cells. By the action of the contents of the sperm cell the ovum becomes impregnated; and under fa- vourable circumstances, often quite indepen- dent of the parent, changes result which give rise to the formation of the embryo from which the adult animal is gradually deve- loped. Now, either the perfect form of the being may be attained by the gi'adual and progres- sive development of the embryo, or several distinct phases of existence may be passed through before the creature reaches its per- fectly developed form. This latter condition is seen in many of the lower classes of animals, and is familiar to us in the class of insects; it is, in fact, what we understand by metamorjjlwsis. Metamorphosis.—In metamorphosis, it must be carefully borne in mind, that it is the self-same embryo which passes through cer- tain transitional stages or phases, and ultimately becomes the per- fectly developed animal; a condition essentially different from that which we shall next consider under the term Metagenesis or alternation of generations, in which successive generations of larval creatures are produced from larvae without the occurrence of any fresh generative act. Here, instead of one individual passing through several transitional forms, an imperfectly developed creature produces a multitude of forms resembling either itself or the perfect iudivi- duals from which the ovum was formed which evolved it. Metagenesis.—In some animals, the embryo, instead of being developed into a form resembling that of its parents, only attains a sort of larval condition, the offspring of which, hoAvever, return to the perfect type, instead of assuming the character of their larval parent. Now, between the fully-developed animals of one Conferva bipunctata in the act ot coiijusation, after Mcyen. The cells from contiguous fila- ments approach each othei", and ultimaloly their cavities coalesce. The oval spores re- snlting from the action of the contents of one cell upon the other are seen in two of tlie colls.