CHAP. XL.] DECIDUA REFLEX A. 579 called decidua vera. As the ovum increased in size, that part of it towards the Fallopian tube, which of course remained uncovered by the reflexa, at length received a covering, which was termed decidua serotina. Decidua Reflexa.—Since the time of Dr. W. Hunter, much dif- ference of opinion has arisen among anatomists as to the manner in which the ovum became covered with decidual membrane. That his view was incorrect, follows from the fact which has been ascer- tained by subsequent researches, — namely, that the decidua itself consists of the altered mucous membrane of the uterus, and there- fore, like it, is continuous with the mucous lining of the Fallopian tubes, and not stretched across the opening, so as to be pushed forwards by the ovum in its descent. The structure of the decidua reflexa, as was pointed out by Goodsir, differs from that of the vera in not containing many ducts. It does, however, contain a few, which are derived from that part of the decidua vera which is continuous with it. Dr. Sharpey considers the central part of the decidua reflexa as formed by a layer of exuded lymph, with Avhich the ovum is covered upon its entrance into the uterus, and that the decidua vera extends upwards around it to a point Avhere these two struc- tures become continuous. He also offers the more simple sugges- tion, that the ovum may first become completely imbedded, and then may carry forward with it a covering of the membrane as it increases in development. A view which agrees in the main with Dr. Sharpey's, and which is probably nearest the truth, is that of M. Coste, who supposes that the ovum becomes partially im- bedded in the decidual membrane and soft pulpy matter poured out by its glands. As the ovum increases in size, the decidua grows up around it, so as ultimately to cover it completely. The two layers of decidua above referred to, gradually come in contact as the ovum increases in size, until, towards the end of the thu'd month, they are incorporated together and form one mem- brane, which becomes thinner as pregnancy advances, and is expelled with the foetus at the termination of the period of geS' tation. The decidua is a structure admirably adapted for the ovum to be imbedded in in the early stages of its existence, and the numerous glands in its substance seem evidently destined to elabo- rate a pabulum fitted for its nutrition, before its own especial organs are sufficiently advanced in development to select and absorb the materials for its subsistence.