CHAP. XVII.] THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. 33 would act rather on the vitreous body around the lens, than on the lens itself. Its existence may be easily shown by filling it with mercury or air, through an artificial orifice in its anterior wall. The injected fluid fills out the plaitings of the ciliary processes. The refracting index of the vitreous body is about 1-339, that of water being 1-336, so that the difference between them is very trifling, and may be referred in part to the transparent fibrous tissue. Its chemical constitution, according to Berzelius, is as follows: Water 98-40 Chloride of Sodium, with extractive matter . 1-42 Albumen ...... -18 100-00 In early life the vitreous body gives passage by a canal to a branch of the central artery of the retina to the back of tli« lens; and in large animals, though not in man, this appears to supply some branches to the vitreous body itself even in the adult state. The crystalline, as already mentioned, is a double convex lens ; but its surfaces are of unequal curvature, the posterior being the more convex. In the adult the difference is nearly as 4 to 3, but it is liable to some variety in different subjects. Ohossat has observed that the curvatures of the lens in the ox are ellipsoids of revolution round the lesser axis, but whether they are so in man is not determined: the subject is one very difficult Fig. 121. of investigation. The lens al- ters its shape with age ; being in the foetus more spherical, more flattened in childhood, and still more so in advanced Human Lens:—a. At Wrth. b. At six years old. T • /> • • • c. Adult, d. Hardened in spirit, and partially separated lire. In iniancy it projects into into segments.—After Soemmerring. the aqueous humor so as to touch the iris ; but in old age there is a space intervening. The lens also varies in consistence with age; being very soft at an early period, very firm in declining years. At no epoch of life, however, is it of uniform consistence throughout; being always denser and firmer from without inwards. In the adult its diameter is from J to f of an inch, and its antero- posterior axis about J to J of an inch. It weighs from three to four grains. The lens is divided into cajmole and bod^/. The manner in which it is encased and fixed by the cajjsule in the vitreous body, has been VOL. II. n