[chap. XXV. 254 DIGESTION. According to Berzellus's view of the composition of bile, its essen- tial and most important constituent is the BUin, a substance which has a remarkable tendency, under certain circumstances, to be metamorphosed into taurine, hydrochlorate of ammonia, and into two resinous acids, which he has named fellinic acid and cholinic acid. Bilin is inodorous, and has a peculiar sweetish-bitter taste, most perceptible at the base of the tongue and fauces. This sweetness is attributed by Berzelius to the admixture of some glycerin, which may be derived from the fatty matters of the bile. It dissolves readily in water and in alcohol, but not in ether. It is neutral, and forms soluble combinations with acids and bases. The substances above-named may be obtained from bilin by digesting it in dilute hydrochloric acid. The fellinic and cholinic acids are insoluble, the others are soluble, in water. Taurin is a crystalline substance, consisting of colourless six- sided prisms. It dissolves in about sixteen times its weight of water at 60°, and is more soluble at a higher temperature. It contains sulphur according to Redtenbacher.* Its composition is represented by the formula C^NgH^OgSa. The fellinic and cholinic acids resemble each other very much in their external properties. They are little or not at all soluble in water, but are readily dis- solved by alcohol; the fellinic acid is readily dissolved by ether, the cholinic only slightly. They form nearly similar compounds with the alkalies, earthy and metallic oxides; but their salts of baryta differ ; the fellinate of baryta being soluble in alcohol, the cholinate of baryta insoluble. The product called by Berzelius dyslysin is obtained by boiling these acids for a long time in hydrochloric acid. It is dissolved with difficulty in boiling alcohol, and on cool- ing precipitates an earthy powder. Fellinic and cholinic acids have the property of combining and forming acid compounds with unde- composed bilin; these have been named by Berzelius, hili-fellinic and hili-cholinic acids. According to Berzelius and Mulder, bilin begins to undergo these changes in the gall-bladder of the living animal; and it is, probably, this proneness to change on the part of its principal constituent which makes the analysis of bile so difficult, and gives rise to so much diversity of opinion among chemists. The/azt of bile exists partly in combination with soda, as oleate and margarate of soda, and principally as a pecuhar substance found only in bile and in the nervous matter, namely cholesterine. This is separable from the other constituents of the bile by agitation * Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacio von Liubig und Wolilcr, Feb., 1846.