496 UKINE [CIIAI', XXXIV. URINE. Healthy urine is a clear, limpid fluid, of a pale straw colour, emitting a pecu- liar and characteristic odour while warm, and exciting a saline and somewhat bitter taste. As the solid constituents of this fluid are entirely excrementi- tious, and in great part derived from the disintegration of the tissues concerned in the chemical changes connected with animal hfe, we should be led to expect, that any alteration in the activity of these functions would lead to a correspond- ing variation in tlie chai-acters of the urine. Even in a state of health the quahties of the in-ine vary much; and it has been found that active exercise exerts a considerable influence upon the quantity of some of the most im- portant constituents of this fluid. Nitrogenous matter, taken in gi'eater quantity than is required for the wants of the system, will be eliminated by the kidneys in the form of urea, and the composition of the luine will there- fore be influenced by the character, as well as by the quantity, of the food.* If an unusual quantity of water be taken into the stomach, a great proportion wiU rapidly be eliminated by the kidneys, and the urine will be found to be very dilute, and of low specific gi-avity. Again, as the action of the kidneys is materially afiected by the activity with which the functions of the skin are discharged, the condition of this great secreting surface has much to do with the quantity and quality of the urinai-y secretion. Changes of tem- perature, for the same reason, will cause the urine to vary in quantity. In hot weather, when the functions of the skin are increased, and a large amount of water is in this way removed from the system, in order to compensate for the effects of the increased external heat, the urinary secretion is much dimi- nished in quantity, and becomes more concentrated, while, in cold weather, when this cooling effect of evaporation is not required, we find the amount of urine much increased, and, therefore, diminished in density. A dry, or humid state of the atmosphere, in consequence of affecting the rapidity of cutaneous transpiration, will exert a certain amount of influence on the quan- tity of water. It does not appear, however, that the quantity of the sohd constituents excreted in a given time is much altered by these circumstances. The state of the nervous system will often be found to have a decided influ- ence in modifying the characters of this secretion ; and various mental emo- * The frequency with which we meet with an excess of urea in the urine of our countrymen is probably dependent in some measure upon the highly nitrogenous nature of our food. On the continent of Europe this is so rare, that some foreign observers appear hardly to credit the statements with refer- ence to the frequent presence of excess of urea.