192 DIGESTION. [chap. xxiv. Over the whole snrfjice of the membrane as seen on hiying open tlic organ, and stretching it so as to obliterate the larger folds, there are visible, even with the naked eye, but still better with a lens, a mul- titude of cavities of very irregular shape, and about j^th of an inch in diameter, more or less (fig. 154, a). These cells'are not the re- sult of creasings of the membrane, and they do not disappear when Fig. 154. \. Inner surface of the stomach, shewing the cells after the mucus has been washed out. Magnified 25 diameters. B. Cohimnar epitheliimi of the inner surface and cells of the stomach :—a. Free ends of the epithe- lial particles, seen on looking down upon the membrane, b. Nuclei \isible at a deeper level. c. The free ends seen obliquely, rf. Deep or at- tached ends of the same. The oval nuclei are seen near the deeper ends. From the dog. Magnified 300 diameters. ble series, the deeper being in it is stretched. They are usually filled with mucus, which requires to be removed. Over the greater part of the stomach they extoid in depth only about -th or -tli of the thickness of the membrane, but they are larger and deej)er near the pylorus. In the ridges between them runs a plexus of vessels larger than ordinary ca- pillaries (fig. 155 A,c?), and which often retains its blood after death, so as to map out the cells in a beautiful manner. This plexus is supplied by vessels sent up from below, and may be very easily injected artificially. The epithelium which lines these stomach cells and covers the ridges between them is of the columnar variety (fig. 154 b); the particles are shorter than in some other parts : one end is free, while the other is directed to- wards the basement membrane; and they contain each a clear pellucid nucleus near their deeper end. They seem to lie in a don- course of developement while the more superficial is in course of decay. It has appeared to us that eacb particle when arrived at maturity has, besides the nu- cleus, granular contents enclosed, and that at a subsequent period the granular contents escape at the free extremity by a dehi- scence or opening of the wall at that part, leaving the transparent husk with its nucleus subsisting for some time longer. The clear structureless mucus which is almost always found occupying the cells