RESPIRATION. [chap. xxix. Some very accurate experiments upon tins subject have been made by M. Barral upon himself during summer and winter. The great diffei-ence noticed in the quantity of carbon exhaled at dif- ferent periods of the year may, to some extent, explain the dis- crepancies in the. results of various observers— Carbon excreted. Weight of body. Carljon in food. In ficccs. In Urine. Exhaled. In Summer 104-5 5654-1 236-2 234-6 6183-3 In Winter „ 4090-0 137-4 211-6 3741-1 About 10-8 oz. troy of carbon, therefore, passed oflF daily in the form of carbonic acid in winter, and 7'8 oz. in summer. The amoimt of cai'bon eliminated by respiration will also be influenced by the quantity and nature of the food, and by other circumstances, which have been previously adverted to. Theory of Respiration.—By the interchange of gases in the lungs, the venous blood becomes of the bright scarlet colour characteristic of arterial blood. The oxygen and carbonic acid both permeate the delicate, moist, limitary membrane of the air-cells at the same time, but in opposite directions. The oxygen, having passed through the capillary walls, is held in solution in the blood; a small part entering into chemical combination with the contents of the blood corpuscle, and to a less degree with some of the constituents of the serum. A portion of the oxygen not improbably acts directly upon cer- tain substances contained in the circulating blood, and contributes to the formation of carbonic acid. In this \^'ay some of the ele- ments of the food lately introduced into the blood may become decomposed, and their carbon removed in the form of carbonic acid. The gi'cater portion of the oxygen is no doubt carried to the capillaries, and much of it then leaving the blood, and passing through the capillary walls, becomes dissolved by the intercellular fluid, in obedience to the same physical laws by which it was absorbed. At the same time, the carbonic acid formed in the interstices of the tissues, and dissolved by the fluid which moistens their ultimate elements, leaves this latter to enter the blood, from which the oxygen has just been removed, and causes it to assume the colour of venous blood. Here, then, are two sources of carbonic acid—one resulting fi'om the action of the oxygen upon certain elements recently introduced in the food, giving rise to the production of a certain amount of