[chap. xxxm. 466 LIVEU. of tlie several twigs of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and duct, may be said to be determined by the mode of distribution of these vessels. The intralobular hepatic vein occupies the central axis of the lobules, and usually consists of a stem, into which three to five, or even more, subordinate twigs empty the blood derived from the capillary plexus. The lobule is elongated on this vein, and presents a process for each of the subordinate twigs. In all cases, the terminal branches of the portal vein and the duct arrive at the surface of the lobule at several points; and the surface of the lobule, whether complete or incomplete, is continuous with that of the portal canals. From this surface, in all cases, the capillary plexus tends by the slight elongation of its close meshes and converges towards the intralobular hepatic vein in the axis of the lobule. It probably follows, that in this latter situation the blood, after having been nearly deprived of those constituents from which the bile is formed, circulates more rapidly than at the more external parts of the lobule, whither it has just been brought by the portal veins, richly charged with these constituents. Portal Canals.—It has been already observed, that the portal canals contain a branch of the portal vein w ith a branch of the hepatic artery, and of the bi- liary duct — not unfrequently the vein is accompanied by two branches of the artery and duct. The branches of the artery and duct are connected with those of the portal vein by are- olar tissue, which is abundant in the transverse fissm'c of the liver, and in the larger portal canals, but in the smaller exists chiefly on that side of the vein where the artery and duct lie; while, as the vessels diminish in size, the amount LongitumnalsecKon of asmaUpoitnl^^^^^ this areolar tisSUC bcCOmCS ter Kiernnn. a. Portions of tlie cannl from wliicli the "-^ has been removed, b. Side of tlic portal vein in iggg until it eiltirclv CCaSBS ^„..>act with the canal, c. The side of the vein which is J separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and •r,,}jgj^.g the Small branches duct with areolar tissue (Glisson's capsule), d. In- ternal surface of the portal vein, through which is seen sunplv the lobules are the outline of the lobules and tlie openings of the inter- I f J ^ lobular veins. /. Vaginal veins of Kiernan. Hepatic priveil ofF. Tllis investment 01 artery, h. Hepatic duct. *= . • t i i areolar tissue, described under after vein contact