MECHANISM OF ABSORPTION. (JIIAP. XXVI.] 285 ether, oil, albuuieii, gum and sugar would disappear from the stomach in very different intervals of time. Absorption as influenced ly the Porous Solid. — An extensive and accurate series of experiments has been recently performed by MM. Matteucci and Cima, in which they investigated the influence of different kinds of animal membranes, and of various arrangements of them, on the transmission of various fluids. They employed— 1. The skin of the frog, the torpedo, and the eel; 2. The mucous lining of the stomach of the lamb, cat, and dog, and of the gizzard of the fowl; and, 3. The mucous lining of the bladder of the ox and pig. The following are the general conclusions derived from these experiments, in the words of their translator:— " 1st. The membrane interposed betweiJn the two liquids is very actively concerned, according to its nature, in the intensity and I -direction of the endosmotic current. " 2udly. There is, in general, for each membrane a certain position in which endosmose is most intense ; and the cases are very rare in which, with fresh membrane, endosmose takes place equally, whatever be the relative position of the membrane to the i two liquids. " Srdly. The direction which is most favourable to endosmose through skins, is usually from the internal to the external surface, with the exception of the skin of the frog, iu which endosmose, in the single case of water and alcohol, is promoted from the external i" to the internal surface. " 4thly. The direction favourable to endosmose through stomachs I and urinary bladders varies with different liquids, much more than > through skins. " othly. The phenomenon of endosmose is intimately connected with the physiological (natural or healthy) condition of the mem- branes. " 6thly. With membranes, dried or altered by putrefaction, either we do not observe the usual diflference arising from the position of their surfaces, or endosmose no longer takes place." * With the mucous lining of the stomach of the lamb (whether the paunch or the true digestive stomach is not mentioned) these trustworthy experimenters found that water passed through towards a solution of sugar in greater quantity when the water was at I first placed on that side of the membrane which is naturally turned ' towards the interior of the cavity of the stomach, than when it * Lectures on the Physical Phenomena of Living Beings. By Carlo Matteucci. I Translated under the superintendence of Dr. Pcrcira. London : 1847. P. 65.