CHAP, xxviii.] PERICARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM. 335 cava opens into its lower angle, passing npwards, backwards, and inwards. The coronary vein opens between the mouth of the in- ferior cava and tlie auriculo-ventricular orifice. On laying open the right auricle, by an incision extending between the two veuse cavse, an intricate arrangement of muscular bundles called musculi pectinati, may be seen on its outer wall. These fleshy columns interlace freely with each other. On the septum a depression exists about Its middle, called the fossa ovalis, nearly surrounded by a thick fleshy ring called the annulus ovalis. This marks the situation of the orifice already alluded to, which existed during intra-uterine life—the foramen ovale. To the left of the orifice of the inferior vena cava there is a valvular process which is another remnant of a mechanism adapted to the circulation through the heart in intra-uterine life. This is the Eustachian valve. It is a process of the inner membrane of the auricle, of semilunar shape, which projects between the vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and in the foetus served to direct the ascending current of blood through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The orifice of the coronary vein is guarded by a small valve called the valve of Thehesius. Several small orifices are seen scattered over the inner surface of the right auricle, called foramina Thehesii; some of these are the openings' of small veins from the wall of the auricle ; others merely lead into depressions between the muscular fibres of the auricular wall. Four veins pour their blood into the left auricle ; these are the right and left pulmonary veins, two on each side. The left veins open quite close to each other. The left auricle is placed in the concavity of the aorta, and has lying in front of it the roots of both the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The inner surface of the left auricle is perfectly smooth, covered with an opaque lining membrane, which appears somewhat thicker than that of the right side. There is no appearance of musculi pectinati in the left sinus venosus ; a few, however, exist on the inner wall of the auricular appendage. Here and there some orifices are seen leading to depressions in the wall of the sinus venosus. On the left side of the septum between the auricles we observe traces of the valve-like portions of the septum which formed the immediate boundary of the foramen ovale during foetal life. Of the Pericardium and Endocardium.—The heart is enclosed in a fibrous bag, the fibrous pericardium, which is closely adherent below to the central tendon of the diaphragm, and above becomes continuous with the external tunic of areolar tissue, which invests