THE HUMAN LUNGS. 387 CHAP. XXIX.] fibres, in the course of which we have discovered unstriped rnuscu- hxr fibres to occur, especially about the bifurcation. In this fibrous layer are recesses for the tracheal glands, and on dissecting it off these glands are exposed, together with a thin sheet of transverse unstriped fibres, completing, as it were, the circle of the carti- laginous rings, and known as the tracliealis onuscle. The fibres of this are attached a little way from the extremities of the cartilages on their inner surface, and in contraction must serve to approxi- mate them, and thus to narrow the canal. In the horse, they are inserted three-fourths of an inch from the extremities, which almost or quite overlap. In birds they are composed of striped fibres. The cartilages, their interspaces, and the trachealis muscle are lined by a thin layer of longitudinal elastic anastomosing fibres, uniformly spread out except over the trachealis muscle, where they are gathered up into longitudinal bands, sometimes one-twelfth of an inch thick, very visible through the mucous membrane. These take a serpentine course down the bronchi, and preserve their anastomosing character. The trachea owes its elasticity in the longitudinal direction to the fibres now described. The mucous lining of the trachea, the essential part of the duct, to which the above are accessory, is continuous through the glottis with that of the pharynx, and physiologically with the respiratory compartment of that cavity, and with the nasal passages (see ante p. 185). It is covered with ciliated epithelium, and the direction of the movement is probably upwards towards the glottis. The tracheal glands are productions of this membrane, and appear as a layer of reddish, distinct granules, behind the trachealis muscle, each one being furnished with a separate duct, traversing first the muscle and then the layer of longitudinal elastic fibres, to open on the inner surface of the tube. These glands appear to be tubular, not follicular, and are thus related rather to the sudoriferous than to the salivary system. They probably furnish much of the halitus of the breath and may determine its odour. Of the hronchi or primary subdivisions of the trachea, the right is the shorter, wider, and more horizontal; the left longer to pass under the aortic arch. Their walls resemble those of the trachea with slight modifications. At the root of the lung, each breaks up into branches corresponding to the lobes {lobal bronchia), and these again into secondary, tertiary, and terminal bronchia, the last named being from one-fortieth to one-sixtieth of an inch in diame- ter. The terminal bronchia pass to portions of the pulmonary