INNERVATION. [chap. xxr. The nervous plexuses in the abdomen are extremely comphcated and numerous. They are principally derived from two great gan- glia, situate on each side of the cailiac axis, in front of the aorta. These ganglia are semilunar in shape, convex downwards and out- wards, they unite below the ca)liac axis ; and chiefly from their convex border, a vast radiation of plexiform nerves takes place, which follow the course of, and entwine around the branches of the cpeliac axis, and of other branches of the aorta. To this great ra- diation anatomists have given the name of solar plexus and the conjoint semilunar ganglia must be looked upon as the great cen- tre,—the sun of the abdominal sympathetic system. Plexuses radiate from this source around the principal branches of the aorta, and they are named after the arteries which they ac- company. They are the diaphragmatic ovphrenic; the supra-renal; the caliac; which divides into the hepatic^ gastric and splenic; the superior mesenteric, from which proceed nerves, which, with others from the lumbar portion of the sympathetic, form the inferior me- senteric plexus^; and the renal plexuses, from which chiefly are de- rived the sjjermatic plexuses, destined to the ovaries in the female, and the testicles in the male. Of these plexuses the following are deserving a more particular notice : The gastric plexus accompanies the coronary artery of the stomach, and passes along the lesser curvature of that organ. With the gastric branches of the vagus it forms the principal nervous supply to the stomach, which is completed by an off-shoot sur- rounding the right gastro-epiploic artery from the hepatic plexus, and by other nerves from the same plexus distributed chiefly to the pylorus, and by branches from the splenic plexus. The hepatic plexus follows the hepatic artery and the vena porta; into the substance of the liver; it is joined by a branch of the vagus ; and it gives off nerves to the stomach, and to the pancreas. The splenic plexus surrounds the splenic artery, supplies the pan- creas, and the left extremity of the stomach, by entwining round the left gastro-epiploic artery, and by direct branches to the great cul de sac of the stomach. These nerves then follow the branches of the splenic artery into the spleen. The superior mesenteric plexus supplies the greatest portion of the intestinal canal, entwining around the superior mesenteric artery and its ramifications. Connected with it are some ganglia of variable size, called caliac or mesenteric ganglia. From these ganglia, and from the upper part of the plexus, nerves are derived to the pancreas, and to the duodenum.