600 DEVELOPMENT [chap. XLII. lies in front of tliis, and at first is extremely small; it bears a proportion to the rest of the encephalou not greater than that whieh the small^ unimportant cerebral lobes of the adult fish bear to its entire cerebrum. The prosencephalon soon, however, increases in size, and becomes much larger than all the others. Our friend, Professor Retzius, has shown that the three lobes of the hemispheres of the human brain, are developed at different periods; the anterior being formed during the second and third months, the middle lobes between the end of the third and begin- ning of the fifth month, and lastly, the posterior lobes are pro- duced. The cerebellum was seen by Von Baer, in the chick, during the fourth day of incubation. It is formed by the meeting of the laminae of the spinal cord anteriorly to the fourth ventricle; a short canal is, however, left, which passes towards the corpora quadrigemina or optic lobes, the future iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. Bischofi^ has demonstrated that, at a very early period, nervous matter is formed along the inner surface of the lips of the primi- tive groove. These two masses of nervous matter gradually approximate, and thus a tube is produced, the walls consisting of nervous matter—while the central cavity, after contracting, be- comes the canal of the spinal cord. The upper portion forms the thin dilatations before described; Avhile at the opposite end is seen a lancet-shaped depression, the future cauda equina, or sinus rhom- boidalis in birds. Development of the Organs of Vision and Hearing.—According to Mr. Gray, the eye of the chick is first seen about the thirty-third hour of incubation, in the form of a protrusion from the anterior vesicle, which corresponds to the cerebral lobes, and may be called the optic vesicle. This view agrees with that of Baer; but it does not accord with the observations of Wagner or Huschke. The latter ob- server states, that the eye is developed from a protrusion of the vesicle of the third ventricle—from the deutencephalic eidarge- ment. The retina is a vesicidar body which communicates with the cavity of the brain through the hollow, tubular optic nerve. These points may be observed in the chick during the second day of incubation. BischofF and Mr. Gray have been unable to confirm the statements of Huschke, with reference to the doubling-in of the retina to form two layers. The latter observes that the fibrous lamina and Jacob's membrane are not developed until after the cellular layer of the retina is formed."^ * Phil. Trans., 1850.