' ^ INNERVATION. [chap, xviii. and their cavity is not cylindrical, but slightly compressed on the sides, and about a twentieth of an inch in diameter. Each is dilated at one end into an ampulla, of more than twice the diameter of the tube, and at the opposite end it opens out slightly on entering the vestibule. Each canal lies in a different plane, the direction of which being constant, should be carefully noticed in relation to their function. The sujyerior vertical canal is also an- terior, and lies across the petrous bone. It forms about two-thirds of a circle, and its extremities are more divergent than those of the others. In the foetus the concavity of this canal is free, owing to a deficiency in the substance of the petrous bone, and its arch forms a projection within the cranium, even in the adult. The ampulla is on its outer extremity. The inferior vertical canal is also posterior, and runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and therefore at right angles to the former. The ampulla is at its lower extremity, and its upper end joins the inner end of the former canal, to constitute a common canal an eighth of an inch long, rather wider than those which join to form it, and opening behind and below. The horizontal canal is also inferior, and shorter than either of the others ; its arch is directed outwards and backwards; its ampullar extremity is close to that of the sui^erior vertical canal. 3. The cochlea is, in shape, very like a common snail-shell. It lies almost horizontally, its apex forwards and outwards, its base marked near the bottom of the internal meatus, by a depression exhibiting a spiral arrangement of pores for the reception of the cochlear divi- sion of the auditory nerve. From base to apex extends the irregu- larly conical axis, modiolus, or columella, which is perforated by numerous branching channels, ascending from the pores just men- tioned, and distributing the nervous filaments in regular succession within the spiral cochlear canal which winds around the axis. This spiral canal is about an inch and a half in length, if measured along its outer wall, and diminishes gradually in size from the base to the summit of the cochlea, where it ends in a cul de sac. At its com- mencement it is about one-teuth of an inch in diameter, but at its termination scarcely half that size. At its base it diverges somewhat from the modiolus, towards the tympanum and vestibule, and presents three openings. Of these, one, free and oval, enters the vestibule ; another is the fenestra rotunda, communicating with the tympanum in the dry bone, but filled up in the recent state by a proper mem- brane, the memhrana tympani secundaria; the third is the minute orifice of the aqueductus cochlea, a funnel-shaped canal leading to