INNERVATION. 16 [chap. XVII. anterior portion, formed by the cornea, is a part of a smaller sphere than the rest, and is therefore slightly protuberant. Hence the an- tero-posterior axis of the eye is longer than the transverse, in the proportion of twenty to nineteen. In terrestrial quadrupeds its shape is for the most part nearly similar. In ani- mals that inhabit the water, as Cetacea and fishes, the eye is considerably flattened in front; so that, in some fishes, it is almost a half-sphere. In birds, on the con- trary, especially those which fly high, the cornea is very prominent compared with the rest of the eye, which is of a more or less flattened form. These diflferences have an evident reference to the density or rareness of the medium through which the light passes to the organ. A more detailed description of the several structures composing the ball of the eye will now be given, in which we shall follow the order most natural to a dissector, viz. that from without, inwards. The sclerotic coat consists of white fibrous tissue, in which, how- ever, the ultimate filaments are more distinct, and less wavy than in ordinary specimens. These form numerous layers, crossing one another chiefly at right angles, and thus constitute a membrane capable of resisting distension, and of retaining its figure under pressure. It has a white glistening aspect, especially in front, where it receives the insertion of the tendons of the four straight muscles, and, being visible, is familiarly known as the "white of the eye." The sclerotic is thickest behind, and becomes gradually thin- ner in front, till nearly in contact with the cornea, where it in- creases in strength a little. In the animal series, the sclerotic becomes of greater relative thickness behind, in proportion to the flattening of the organ in front, and the pressure which it will have to sustain from the sm-rounding medium. In aquatic mammalia this is effected simply by an accumidation of the fibrous tissue in that situation, as in the whale, where it is often an inch in thickness, a wonderful provision against the enormous pressure to which that animal is exposed at great depths. In reptiles and fishes there is a thick cartilaginous lamina included in the fibrous tissue; and in some this cartilage ossifies, as in the sca-breani, mentioned by Dr. Jacob. In birds too, where the sclerotica is flattened from before backwards, a thin cartila- ginous plate exists in it, which confers a peeidiar elasticity and firmness, and is at the same time light and slender. Its anterior part is further fortified by fourteen or fifteen osseous plates, disposed in a regular series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates occur in various reptiles, and are especially remarkable in those gigantic specimens of this class, the Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri, which are only known to us by their fossil remains. The optic nerve comes through the sclerotic behind, at a distance of about its own breadth, or nearly one eighth of an inch, on the inner side of the axis of the eye, by which is meant the axis of the