104 INNERVATION. [chap. xix. The origin of the fourth nerve may be referred to the mesoce- phale, from the superior surface of which it emerges, in close con- nexion with the testes, or immediately behind them. Its true origin is doubtless fi-om the olivary columns as they extend upwards beneath the quadrigeminal tubercles. The fourth nerve emerges from the cranium through a canal in the dura mater, situate near the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, external to that in which the third nerve is lodged. It passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus beneath the third nerve, and in entering the orbit it rises above that nerve, and lies immedi- ately beneath the periosteum, attaching itself to the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle, into the posterior third of which it penetrates. This is the only muscle which the fourth nerve supplies, and the nerve appears to be wholly lost in it. But as it passes through its canal in the dura mater, it gives off a branch, which, taking a retro- grade course, passes into the tentorium cerebelli as far as the lateral sinus, where it subdivides into two or three filaments. In its course it forms but few connexions, and those apparently not constant. As it crosses the cavernous sinus it anastomoses with the sympathetic, and, as it enters the orbit, with the lachrymal. That this nerve is the motor nerve to the superior oblique muscle anatomy does not allow us to doubt, for the muscle receives no other. Experiments and pathological observation have thrown no satis- factory light upon its function. In animals of great power of expression, as in apes, according to Sir 0. Bell, this nerve, as well as the superior oblique muscle, is large. Of the Sixth Pair of Nerves.—These nerves emerge from between the fibres of the anterior pyramids immediately behind the posterior margin of the pons Varolii. It is not improbable that the true origin of each nerve is from the central part of the medulla oblongata, the olimry colwnns, and that the nerves pass between the fibres of the pyramids without forming any real connexion with them. The sixth nerve has a straight, but very short intracranial course; it penetrates the dm-a mater, and passes over the outside of the carotid artery, between it and the lining membrane of the cavernous sinus, entering the orbit between the two origins of the rectus ex- ternus muscle, to the ocular surface of which it is entirely distri- buted. As the sixth nerve is passing along the outer side of the internal