ciiAi'. XXV.] ClIYLIFICATION. 239 At this period an abundant qnantity of loose epithelium is in contact with the mucous membrane, and surrounds the villi; and the sheaths of the latter seem to adhere very loosely to them, and may be much more readily detached than when the digestive pro- cess is not going on. Mingled with the abundant mucus of the intestme, we hnd at this period very numerous white flocculi of a soft, loose, curdy material, the whiteness of which is conspicuous in the midst of other matters, which are more or less coloured from intermixture with bile. And, at the same time, the plexus of lacteal vessels, which is formed beneath the mucous membrane, and from which the larger lacteal vessels proceed through the mesentery to the mesen- teric glands, is filled with a white fluid of the exact colour and appearance of milk, commonly called the chyle. The display of the lacteal vessels filled with white chyle, at this period, is one of the most interesting sights among the many wonderful objects which engage the observation and the attention of the anatomist. The white flocculent matter is most abundant in the duodenum and jejunum, and there the villi are most numerous ; thence, likewise, proceed the greatest number of lacteal vessels. Lower down in the small intestine the flocculi gradually become less and less numerous, and ultimately disappear, the contents of the intestine consisting of a more or less fluid mass, apparently homogeneous, and coloured by bile. At the same time the villi become fewer and smaller, the number of lacteal vessels diminishes, and the glandular apparatus . of the intestinal mucous membrane is more developed and dis- tinct. The occurrence of the flocculent matter, in that part of the intestine where the absorbing organs and the chyliferous vessels are most numerous, denotes that it must be regarded as constituting the nascent condition of that fluid which at this period fills the lacteal vessels and gives them their white colour—the chyle. It appears like a precipitate from the general mass of the intestinal contents, and many distinguished physiologists have regarded it in that light, and have attributed its precipitation to the addition of the biliary and pancreatic fluids to the chymous mass which has been pushed on from the stomach into the intestines. This flocculent matter consists of a multitude of minute mole- cules apparently of a fatty nature (as they disappear under the action of ether), mingled with larger oil-globules, and also of num- bers of particles of columnar epithelium, containing within them.