' ^ INNERVATION. [chap, xviir. by a twig from the portio dura of the seventh pair. At the base of the pyramid is an aperture through which the chorda tyrnpani, m, enters the tympanum. Thence this nerve passes forwards, between the handle of the malleus and the long arm of the incus, and emerges through a canal close to the Glaserian fissure. Above the pyramid an arched prominence, e, indicates the course of the aqueductus Fallopii, close to the tympanum; and behind this is the free com- munication with the mastoid cells, /. The anterior part of the tympanum presents above the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, and below the orifice of the Eustachian tube. The former, i, is chiefly formed by a curled plate of bone, processus cochlear iformis, g, ending in a kind of perforated sum- mit, that some have termed, anterior pyramid. This is a little above the fenestra ovahs, and gives passage to the tendon of the tensor tympani, which becomes attached to the short process of the mal- leus. The Eustachian tuhe, about one inch and a half in length, leads from the tympanum downwards, forwards, and inwards to its orifice in the pharynx, which is seen as a slit with an elevated edge close behind the inferior turbinated bone of the nose (see fig. 106, t, p. 8). By its straight, but inclined coui'se, the passage of mucus from the tympanum is facilitated. Its upper extremity for more than half an inch is bony, while in the rest of its extent it is carti- laginous. It dilates at each end, especially the lower, where the cartilage is thickened and everted. It forms a passage for the air in and out of the tympanum. It exists in all animals in which a tympanum is found, but in many, the tubes of opposite sides have a common outlet on the pharynx. External to the opening for the Eustachian tube is the opening for the anterior muscle of the malleus (Grlaserian fissure) and that for the escape of the chorda tympani. The ossicles of the tympanum are three, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes (fig. 138). The malleus (hammer) has a large ex- tremity above, termed the head, bounded by a constriction or necJc, from which the handle (manubrium), 7i, passes down, imbedded in the membrana tympani, as already described. Its concavity di- rected outwards explains the similar inequality of that membrane. The short process is a slight conical projection from the neck, which receives the insertion of the tensor tym])ani muscle: the slender process (p. gracilis), rj, also passes from the neck, but forwards and outwards, to enter the Glaserian fissure. On the back of the head and neck an articulation is formed with the incus. The incus (anvil), is shaped not unlike a molar tooth. It articulates with the malleus by the anterior surface or summit of its body, and has two processes, a