CHAP. XXV.] THE TUNICS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. fat, and presents the same characters throughout the whole intes- tinal canal. Placed immediately underneath the mucous mem- brane, it constitutes the medium, through which the various san- guiferous and other vessels and the nerves pass to that membrane. The muscular coat of the small intestine consists of two layers or planes which differ from each other as regards the direction of their fibres. The external plane is composed of longitudinal fibres, continuous superiorly with the longitudinal fibres of the stomach; they form a continuous tunic surrounding the intestine, and extend- ing from the pylorus to the coecura. 0. B. Albinus* states that they exist only as a band a finger-breadth broad, and corresponding to the concave border of the intestine along which the mesentery is attached, and to this he attributes the concavity which the inflated intestine presents towards the mesentery. We have no doubt, however, that the longitudinal fibres form a continuous tunic around the intestine, though they are strongest along the 'line of attachment of the mesentery, and are very apparent in that situa- tion at times when they are indistinct elsewhere. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the longitudinal; the direction of which they cut at right angles. They surround the intes- tine in a circular manner, not spirally, as some anatomists have asserted. The muscular tunic of the large intestine is likewise disposed in two layers of fibres. The external, however, does not, as in the small intestine, form a uniform layer around the intestine, but is developed chiefly in three bands, about half an inch wide, with a few intervening longitudinal fibres. These bands commence at the root of the vermiform appendix of the ccecum, and extend in this form to the rectum where they become expanded and form a con- tinuous tunic over the whole intestine. The longitudinal bands are shorter than the intestine ; the effect of this is to produce a pucker- ing of all its coats at certain intervals throughout the whole length of the colon. At these points the colon appears to be constricted, as by a shorter bundle of circular fibres, and its mucous membrane projects into the interior, forming large folds. These folds separate sacculated portions of the intestine, which are the cells of the colon, and the convex bulgings seen on the exterior of the inflated large intestine are the walls of these cells. The circular fibres are ar- ranged in the same manner as in the small intestine, being spread uniformly over the surface of the intestine, * Specimen Anatoniicuni cxliibens novam tenuium Hominis Intcstinorum De- scriptionem. Lugd. Bat. 1724.