Mil. Simon's researches. 521 CHAP. XXXV.] vary considerably in size, sometimes the right and sometimes the left being the largest. The organ rests upon the front of the aortic arch and large arteries rising from it, and also on the left vena innominata. It is covered by the sternum, and at birth reaches down to the fourth costal cartilage. It extends upwards into the neck, as high as the 1 thyroid body, and Ues upon the front and side of the trachea. I The researches of Sir Astley Cooper, and more recently those of S Mr. Simon, show that this organ consists essentially of an elon- gated tube, from all sides of which extend numerous small follicles or sacculi, which pour their contents into the central cavity. Sir I Astley Cooper unravelled the gland, and, by having previously in- ; jectcd the central cavity and follicles Avith alcohol, or coloured . size, was enabled to make out their relations and arrangement; although, by these processes, it is probable that he distended the central cavity to a greater extent than natxiral, and was thus led to look upon it as much more extensive than it was subsequently proved to be by the conclusive observations of our friend Mr. Simon, which are published in his well-known essay. The latter excellent observer, carefully watched the development of this gland, and thus was the first to make out accurately its anatomy. It is probable that it first arises from a row of cells arranged in linear series, which coalesce, and thus be- come converted into a nar- row tube. The wall of this tube then bulges at intervals, and vesicular cavities are gradually formed. These ve- sicular dilatations are much more abundant in some situations than in others; and the primary offset di- vides in a dichotomous or quaternary manner, until, from the number and irre- gular distribution of these vessels, the gland assumes its ultimate shape and cha- racter. The closed cavity VOL. IT. Fig. 250. t0k tea a. <i. Primordial cells in a row. 6. Isolated cpII „n,.«,. nected with the row, and under^oln^ deve „pn cnt in 's original ee l shape, c. Primary tnbo, fonnod by the ihsi ,n o the cells, a Second stase of development of tlie t'^. m is, showmg hulgings of tube in dlfferent stages I ieh ultimately become themselves divided. After si^A, After Simon. M M