278 [chap. XXVI. ABSORPTION. A lymphatic system exists in all the vertebrata, but the glands are wanting in fishes and reptiles, and are very few in birds, being found only in the neck. In fishes and reptiles, however, there occur large and intricate lymphatic plexuses, chiefly without valves, accompanying and sometimes completely surrounding the blood-vessels in a luxuriance quite superior to anything found in the higher classes. Moreover, there exist in the course of the lymphatic trunks in these animals and in birds, pouches furnished with valves and muscular walls, which contract rhythmi- cally and urge on the lymph towards the veins. These lymphatic hearts are, in birds at least, formed of the striped fibre, according to the observation of Stannius ; and we owe to Volkmann the interesting fact, that in frogs their contraction may be excited by the direct influence of portions of the spinal marrow.* Do the Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels absorb 9 — From the account now given it is clear that the structure and arrangement of the lymphatic vessels fit them only for the conveyance of fluid in one dii'ection, viz., from the various tissues in vi'hich they originate to the great veins, and thence to the heart. Hence there can be no doubt, that, whatever other function they may subserve, they are designed to carry fluid into the blood either from the exterior of the body, as in the case of the digestive mucous membrane and the skin, or from the interstices of the various textures, where it may have been derived either directly from the circulating mass, or indirectly from the waste of the textures themselves. It was till lately assumed too exclusively that this system of vessels was the sole agent in such absorption, and hence the name of absorbent system as applied to it, and the» view which allowed the blood vessels no share in the absorbent function. To prove that the lacteals absorb chyle, it is only necessary to examine them in a fasting and in a recently fed animal. In the former their contents are transparent, in the latter they are milky, and the opaque fluid can be shown by simple means to move on in the course indicated by the valves. That the lymphatics absorb is perhaps best shown by the phenomena of disease. The syphilitic poison is frequently carried from the primary sore along the lym- phatics, and exciting inflammation in this route may occasion deposits of lymph or pus either on the penis or in the groin, and the matter of abscesses so formed is capable of imparting the disease to other individuals, thus proving the multiplication, and, probably, also the real transport of the virus, along these channels. The inflammation of the lymphatic trunks and glands so often observed to ensue upon accidental wounds, either poisoned or not, especially in debilitated subjects, seems due to an actual propaga- * Paget's Report, 1844—5, p. 27.