CHAP. XXXn.] RECREMENTITIOUS SECRETIONS. 449 5. Certain portions of the bile, already considered (see p. 258, vol. ii.), by the liver. To these may be added sundry constituents of the fffices, of imperfectly known composition, but supposed by Liebig to be imperfectly oxidized matter,^ escaping by the mucous lining of the intestinal tract, probably by the tubes of Lieberkiihn and by the solitary glands; and lastly, also, whatever substances are taken in as food and absorbed into the blood, but which fail to be assimilated, either from their being superfluous in quantity, or in- capable of serving any purpose in the ceconomy. Secretions which are not composed of excremeniitious Substances, and which serve important Offices in the (Economy.—Other secretions (and this is a large and diversified class) do not consist of waste materials, the results of the disintegration of the tissues, but are thrown oflF in certain situations where they are to perform a part useful or neces- sary to the protection or preservation of other organs, or of the whole bod}^, or of the species. Of these, speaking generally, it may be said that they are formed, as well as eliminated, by the several organs which furnish them; that they retain more or less resemblance, in chemical constitution, to the food and the nutritious parts of the blood; and that, in many respects, they are allied to the living tissues of the body from which they are separated. The highest example which can be given of these qualities is that of the male and female elements, the semen and the ova, which go to form the new being, and which are the production of organs essentially secreting. Here the secreted matter retains its organized form and its living properties, which latter are of so elevated a character, as to end in the development of an entire organism like that which has furnished the secretion. Other examples, in which these qualities meet less decidedly, are presented by the milk, and by some of those secretions which have been already considered under the head of the digestive function, such as the saliva, the gastric juice, and the pancreatic fluid. These are poured out to mingle with the food, and variously to facilitate its entry into the blood; and there can be no doubt, that after having duly effected this object, they become in a considerable measm'e themselves reabsorbed with the food, so as to be further • The faeces have lately been subjected to chemical investigation by Dr. W. Marcet, who has discovered an organic crystalline substance of an alkaline reaction, to which he gives the name of Excretine, an acid olive-coloured sub- stance, of a fatty nature, ExcretoUc acid, and a fatty acid, having the proper- ties of Margaric acid, but not constantly present.—"Proceedings of the Eoyal Society," vol. vii. No. 6.