MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [cHAP. XXXVii. beneath it are Cowper's glands. This part of the urethra com- mences at the anterior extremity of the prostate, and terminates in the bulbous portion. Its upper surface is rather longer than the lower one, and it curves upwards. In the evacuation of the bladder, it is most likely that the ■ compressor urethra; muscle, which contains striped fibre, and guards the membranous portion of the urethra, becomes re- laxed ; then follows the relaxation of the sphincter vesica, and the contraction of the fibres of the bladder (detrusor urina^), which causes the urine to escape from the urethra with consider- able force. The spongij portion of the urethra is about six inches in length, and is so called, because it is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum urethrse. That part of the canal in the bulb is somewhat dilated, but the diameter of the greater part of this portion of the canal is uniform. Cowper's glands open near the anterior extremity of the bulbous portion. When it reaches the glans, however, it undergoes another dilatation, the fossa navicularis. At its orifice, the urethra is contracted. Mucous Membrane.—The short papillae covering the ^^ans become much elongated at the orifice of the urethra, and highly vascular papillae are found in the anterior half of the fossa navicularis (fossa Moi'gagnii). They then cease abruptly, but re-commence in the posterior part of the glans, and are continued as far as the bulbous portion. About one-third of an inch from the meatus, on the dorsal aspect of the fossa navicularis, is situated the lacuna magna. In other parts of the mucous membrane of the urethra, except in the pros- tatic portion, are numerous small lacunre. Glands of Littre.—The majority of these are simple involutions of the mucous membrane, or lacuna?; but some may be described as small branched glands or follicles, which are numerous in the cavernous portion of the urethra. These become more simple in the prostatic portion, and take the form of simple follicles. The epithelium lining the urethra and the small glands just re- ferred to, is for the most part of the columnar form. Glandula Tysoniance.—These little glands are situated in the fold of skin round the glans penis. They are modified sebaceous glands, and the follicles of which they are composed, contain epithelium and fatty matter, resembling that which is met with in the ordi- nary sebaceous follicles of the skin. In this locality these glands open upon the soft skin of the prepuce, and are not associated with