CHAP. XXXV.] THYROID. 519 ner with the nervous system, and probably with the sympathetic. Bergman thinks that this part of the supra-renal body may, per- haps, bear a relation to the sympathetic, similar to that which the pituitary body does to the brain. It is interesting to note, in con- nection with this subject, that our friend, Mr. Brown-Sequard, has observed congestion, and hypertrophy of the supra-renal capsules, after injuries to the chord in the dorsal region. Dr. Addison has lately published an account of several very interesting cases of disease of the supra-renal capsules, associated with " anajmic general languor and debility, remarkable feeble- ness of heart's action, irritability of the stomach, and a peculiar change of colour in the skin." * T/ii/roid.—The thyroid body, or gland, as it is sometimes called, is a soft, and very vascular organ, situated upon the lateral aspect of the upper part of the trachea, as far upwards as the sides of the laiynx. It consists of two lateral lobes, united, by a thin narrow portion, which has a similar structure to that of the gland itself, extending across the front of the third or fourth rings of the trachea, and known as the isthmus. The middle lobe, "which varies somewhat in position, is a thin process, extending upwards from the isthmus, or one of the lateral lobes, and often reaches as high as the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by loose fibrous tissue; indeed, this process itself is not unfrequently composed of fibrous tissi;e only, and sometimes contains a few fibres of the thyro-hyoid muscle. The thyroid body itself, is made up of a vast number of small lobules, which are aggregated together in larger globular or oval masses, of which the entire substance of the gland is composed. These are all surrounded by, and connected together with, areolar tissue, and each subdivision itself consists of a number of small closed vesicles, between which the vessels ramify, also closely in- vested with areolar tissue, varying considerably in size, and con- taining fluid, or a thick gelatinous matter. Each vesicle may, therefore, be described as consisting of a fibrous coat, composed of areolar tissue, internal to which there exists a delicate basement membrane, lined by cells of epithelium, which vary somewhat in character, but usually are seen as poly- gonal, or almost circular cells of a faintly granular appearance, and having a nucleus, which, however, is by no means invariably pre- * On the constitutional and local effects of Disease of the Supra-renal Capsules," by Thomas Addison, M.D., Senior Physician to Guy's Hospital 1855. '