415 THEORY OF RESPIRATION. CHAF. XXIX.] animal heat, and the other depending upon the union of the oxygen with the caxbon of those substances which are produced in the disintegration of tissues during the performance of their functions; in this combination also heat is developed. In purely carnivorous animals, the greater portion of the carbonic acid results from the disintegTation of the muscular and nervous tissues; while, in the herbivora, much of the food, rich in carbon and poor in nitrogen, is at once converted into carbonic acid. Although the action of the oxygen upon the carbon of the com- pounds, from which the carbonic acid is formed, is a strictly chemical process, the application of this oxygen to the substance to be de- composed, and the removal of the resulting carbonic acid, are dependent solely upon the physical relations which these gases bear to each other, to the membrane through Avhich they pass, and to the fluids in which they ai'e dissolved. The blood, loaded with carbonic acid, at length returns to the respiratory surface, where it parts with this gas and absorbs oxygen, in obedience to the physical laAvs above referred to. More oxygen is usually absorbed than is necessary to convert the carbon into carbonic acid. This is required for the oxidation of other elements, as sulphur and phosphorus, by which compounds are produced which are eliminated by other emunctories. The amount of oxygen inhaled will depend in great measure upon the quantity and nature of the food, and upon the activity of the vital functions, and is intimately associated with the pro- duction of animal heat, as will appear in the next chapter. It has been shown that the activity of the respiratory function is materially influenced by various external and internal conditions. Temperature, a dry or moist state of the atmosphere, the period of the day, the digestive process, rest, exercise, etc., all exert an in- fluence on the amount of oxygen inhaled and of carbonic acid exhaled. These are points which must be borne in mind by the careful practitioner in the treatment of such diseases as phthisis, pneumonia, emphysema, and the like. Respiration is, therefore, partly a physical and partly a chemical process;—chemical, as far as regards the resiilts; physical, with reference to the means by which these results are produced. The introduction of the restorative oxygen, and the removal of the deleterious carbonic acid, are effected solely by a physical process; while the formation of the carbonic acid is essentially a chemical process, and in its production many complicated chemical decom- positions take place.