CHAP.XH.] OF THE HUMAN EMBRYO. 593 fissures were present. Wagner and Miiller have examined ova a little furtlier advanced. The embryo examined by the latter ob- server was two and a half lines in length, and the amnion was seen closely applied to it. There were three pair of branchial fissures and arches. The age of this embryo may be stated with tolerable certainty to be about twenty-five days. Several human ova have been subjected to careful examination ])y different observers, between three and four weeks old, which may be considered to be in a normal state, and not modified by the occurrence of any morbid change. At this time, the ovum is about seven lines in length, and the embryo not more than two. It is surrounded by an amnion which adheres to it pretty closely. The chorion is already covered with small villi. Between the chorion and amnion is a considerable quantity of a viscid albuminous material. The embryo is curved. The anterior cerebral vesicles are well marked, and immediately behind them are the very large corpora quadrigemina. The positions of the opthalmic and auditory vesicles are indicated. Three or four visceral arches are seen with the branchial fissures between them. The heart is not yet fully formed, and projects from the anterior surface of the body as a bent tube. The anterior and posterior extremities exist in the form of curved flattish appendages. The abdomen is completely open, and the amnion is reflected over the anterior and posterior extremity of the embryo to form the cephalic and caudal involucra. The heart is large, and consists of a simple auricle and ventricle. Behind the heart is seen the liver, beneath which is situated the intestine attached by its mesentery. The umbilical vesicle is as large as the embryo, and it is connected with the intestine by a long pedicle, the ductus omp/ialo-entej-icus. The vesicle itself is found lying between the chorion and amnion (Figs. 280, 294). The duct, with the vessels which accompany it, and the allantois, constitute the umbilical cord, enveloped by the amnion, which membrane forms a tube enclosing these structures. The allantois is seen as a large and well-defined vesicle, which extends to the inner surface of the chorion, to which it is attached. On each side of the mesentery, close to the spine, are situated the large Wolffian bodies. About the fourth week, there are three branchial fissures and arches behind the lower jaw. The divisions of the vertebrre are very distinctly marked, and in consequence of the curvature of the embryo, the coccyx and forehead are brought very close together. Up to this period, the development of the human embryo is very similar to that of other vertebrate auimals.