INNERVATION. [ciiAr. xx. upon it. This is the ganglion jiigulare, discovered by Ehrenritter. Beyond this, and lodged in a fossa in the side of the jugular foramen, is another ganglion which involves all the fibres of the nerve ; this is the ganglion petrosum, originally described by Andersch. After its escape through the jugular foramen, the glossopharyngeal descends by the side of the pharynx, between the styloglossus and stylopha- ryngeus muscles, and in the region of the tonsil breaks up into its terminal branches. From the ganglion of Andersch, a nerve passes off, and enters the cavity of the tympanum, occupying a groove upon the surface of the promontory beneath the lining membrane of the tympa- num. This branch, lately called the branch of Jacobson, al- though described by Andersch and Winslow, divides into six filaments, which form the tympanic plexus or anastomosis. These filaments are as follow :—1. To the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. 2. To that of the fenestra rotunda. 3. To the carotid plexus in the carotid canal. 4. To the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube. 5. An anastomotic branch, which passing through the upper wall of the tympanum unites with the greater superficial petrosal nerve. 6. An anastomotic branch to the otic ganglion, called by Arnold the lesser superficial petrosal nerve. Near the petrosal ganglion the glossopharyngeal nerve forms anastomoses with the facial and the par vagum. The following are the terminal branches of the glossopharyngeal nerve. 1. A branch to the digastric and stylopharyngeal muscles. 2. Three or four carotid filaments which descend along the internal carotid artery, and may be traced as far as the bifurcation of the common carotid. These nerves anastomose with others from the su- perior cervical ganglion, and form a plexus round the carotid artery. 3. Tonsillitic branches, which are numerous, and along with nerves from the vagus and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, form a plexus beneath the mucous membrane in the vi- cinity of the tonsil, which is called the pharyngeal or tonsillitic plexus. Some of the branches of this plexus are distinctly connected with the mucous membrane, others with the muscular fibres of the pharynx. 4. Pharyngeal branches, which are distributed to the mucous membrane of the wall of the pharynx. 5. Lingual branches; these are given to the mucous membrane at the base and side of the tongue, and one may usually be traced into the soft palate. From the preceding statement it appears that the distribution of the glossopharyngeal nerve is chiefly, if not exclusively, to sentient surfaces. Even its tympanic branch is connected with the lining