INNERVATION. [chap. xvii. It appears by a simple experiment, for the principle of which we are indebted to Mariotte, that the small portion of the retina cor- responding to the entrance of the optic nerve, is incapable of ex- citing visual sensation though it receive the image of an object. Place the thumbs together at arm's length, shut the left eye and fix the right eye steadily on the left thumb ; then the right thumb, if moved gradually outwards (so that its image on the retina of course traverses inwards), ceases to be visible in a particular spot, but is again seen beyond it. It will be remembered that the fibrous lamina of the gray nervous layer of the retina is here evolving itself from the nerve, and is not yet invested loitli the vesicular or other laminae; a circumstance of great interest in regard to the modus operandi of the constituents of the retina in vision. It has indeed been denied by an eminent physiologist, that the retina is insensible to light at this point, on the ground that, if such were the case, we should see a dark spot in our field of view when- ever we use only one eye. To produce the physical sensation of darkness, however, the retina seems as necessary as the nerves of ordinary feeling are to the production of the physical sensation of cold. Both sensations are occasioned by the absence of the respective stimulus, but the specially endowed nerve is as essential to acquaint us with the absence as with the presence of the stimulus. What Mariotte's experiment proves is simply that over that spot no nervous matter, having the peculiar power of excitability by light, exists ; and as far as the faculty of seeing with that spot is concerned, it is as though the piece of retina had been punched out. We no more see a dark spot corresponding to it, when we look with one eye, than we see everything dark behind us—where there is no nervous expansion visually endowed. For, in strict language, a distinction must be drawn between the sensation of darkness and the absence of the sensation of light. This incapacity of vision at the entrance of the optic nerve, seems to be essential to the mode of junction of the retina with the nerve, since it appears to have been the chief reason why the nerve Avas not made to enter in the axis of the eye. If the blind spot had been situ- ated in the axis, a blank space would have always existed in the centre of the field of vision, since the axes of the eyes, in vision, are made to correspond. But, as it is, the blind spots do not corre- spond when the eyes are directed to the same object; and hence the blank, which one eye would present, is filled up by the opposite one. Though no other part of the retina is insusceptible of luminou8