369 .;iiAP. XXVIII.] THE CAPILLARY CIRCULATION. pressure of the blood into them, or to their distension under the same pressure in consequence of diminished tone of their wall. Their contraction is caused either by an inherent contractile power in them, or by the diminution of their contents in consequence of the contraction of the capillary arteries, in which latter case diminished pressure permits them to contract, in virtue of the elasticity of their walls. This latter would be the more probable view, in default of any proved existence of a muscular structure in the walls of the true capillaries, but there is no good reason why the nuclei observed in them should not be regarded as belong- insf to muscular tissue here in a membranous rather than a fibrous form. The rate at which the blood moves in the capillary circulation has been made the subject of direct observation by various phy- siologists. It is slower than in the smallest veins, and still more so than in the smallest arteries. Hales had stated the rate of the circulation in the capillaries of the muscles of a frog to be an inch in a minute and a half, and in the pulmonary capillaries five times that velocity. Subsequent observers, Weber, Valentin, and Volkmann, give a somewhat greater velocity : Weber and Valen- tin make it about an inch and three-quarters in a minute, and Volkmann found it about the same in cold-blooded animals, but twice as much in the capillaries of the mesentery of a young dog. These estimates are probably rather below the real rate of motion of the blood in the capillaries, if we allow for the degree of pressure and constraint to which they must be subjected in making the observations. Of the Forces widch maintain the Capillari/ Circulation.— The principal force by which the circulation is supported in the capillary system, is the vis a tergo of the heart. We have already adduced sufficient evidence to prove that that force is capable of driving the blood throughout the whole circulating system. The following facts may be stated in proof of this doctrine. 1. The pressure of the blood may be measured in the veins, in the same way as in the arteries, and this varies with the force of the heart. If, then, the heart's force extends to the veins, it must do so through the capillaries. 2. The capillary and venous circulation in any segment of the body, is greatly influenced by the circulation in the main artery of that segment. Thus, Magendie found the circulation much retarded in the femoral vein by stoppage of that in the corresponding artery : and by the haimadynamometer it may be shown that the