453 STRUCTURE OF GLANDS. CHAP. XXXII.] of parts, which we have before designated the mueous system, in- chiding, under one common title, the skin, mucous membranes, and true glands; the term, true glands, meaning those which, by a duct, or otherwise, pour their secretion on the external surface, and not iuto the blood. For a summary accomit of the tissues forming this order of parts, the note at p. 162 of the present volume should be referred to. The skin, and most- of the great regions of the mucous membranes, together with some of the glands, have been already minutely described in different parts of the preceding pages; and it now only remains, before passing to a description, in de- tail, of the great remaining glands, to offer some observations on the general plan or scheme of structure, discoverable in these special organs of secretion. Between skin, mucous membranes, and glands, there exists every gradation of structure, by which one can be conceived to pass into the other. They are modifications of a common type. The two former are secreting organs, in an expanded form, sometimes pre- senting glandular involutions in their thickness. But, in propor- tion as the glands differ from mere membranes, we find them assuming a more solid form, gathered up, as it were, into a more compact mass, in which are to be still recognised all the elements of the simple membrane in their true relative positions — tlie free surface being still the free sm'face, though now forming, it may be, the lining of ducts, and composing the internal tubular, or folUcular recesses of the solid organ,—and the deep, or vascular surface pre- serving the same relation as before to blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, or areolar tissue, under its various modifications. In par- ticular, the epithelium, or proper glandular tissue, remains capable by its anatomical position in regard to the external surface, to dis- chargeits product on that surface. Thus the epithelium of the paro- tid gland, the liver, or the kidney, has such a relatiou to the remote parts of the excretory ducts of those organs, as that the secretion, resulting from the mutual action of that tissue and the blood, is set free into those channels, which are, in reality, continuations of the integument, and, therefore, in one sense, portions of the ex- ternal surface of the body. It will be readily seen how close and intimate must be, in all cases, the proximity of the glandular epithelium to the ducts. In fact, in many instances, the epithelium of the ducts is beyond doubt the secreting tissue, and the gland is a congeries of finely divided passages, or ducts, whose epithelium (though in a modified form) is