CHAP. XXV.] 247 FUNCTION OF THE PANCREAS. I has been lately studied with great care by M. Bernard, from whose clear and admirable memoir the following account of it is derived. The pancreatic fluid may be procui-ed most readily and in greatest quantity at the commeucement of the digestive process. Bernard obtained it from the dog in the following manner ; the animal having been well fed, after a fast of some hours, an inci- sion was made into the abdomen below the margin of the ribs sufficiently large to enable the operator to draw out the duodenum, and with it a portion of the pancreas. The larger of the two pan- creatic ducts was now rapidly isolated, and opened with fine scissors, and into this opening a silver tube was introduced and fixed in the duct by a ligature. The intestine and pancreas were replaced, and the wound in the abdomen closed by suture, the free extremity of the tube being allowed to project through it. To the silver tube was now attached a small caoutchouc bag, perfectly exhausted of air, and to the opposite end of this another similar tube Avas fixed. The pancreatic fluid flowed freely through the first tube into the caoutchouc bag and accumulated there ; and as much as two drachms and a quarter were collected in five hours and a half. The fluid flowed from the tube freely drop by drop. When this operation was performed at the commencement of digestion, Bernard obtained between half-past seven a.m., and five P.M., four drachms and one third of the fluid, making an average of . nearly half a drachm an hour. On the following day, when signs of inflammation had shown themselves in the wound, more than four drachms of the fluid were obtained in one hour and a quarter. The quantity of the secretion was considerably increased, but its quality was altered—its con- sistence being much diminished, and its physiological properties materially changed. When the experiment was performed on an animal in which the , digestive process was fully established, the quantity of fluid I obtained was much less than at the earlier period, but its quality much the same. During abstinence only a very small quantity of the pancreatic juice could be obtained at the time of the operation; i but the following day, when the wound became inflamed, a fluid much altered in quality flowed out very freely. If the operation were slowly performed, so as to expose the intestine long to the action of the air, and to irritate it and the I gland, the quantity and quality of the secretion were much altered. As the characters of the pancreatic fluid vary so readily with ( the circumstances attending the operation of obtaining it, Bernard