CHAP. XX.] THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 129 of origin which emerge from the cord quite close to the posterior roots of the cervical nerves. The reply to this objection is, that the external branch of the nerve is nevertheless distinctly motor, and that therefore the internal may be so likewise. Morganti and Ber- nard affirm that the lower roots form the external branch ; if so, then the superior fascicles may be those which contribute to form the internal branch, and, therefore, its function probably differs from that of the external branch. We have already alluded to the fact that a coalition is sometimes observed between the poste- rior roots of the first or second cervical nerves, and the upper roots of the spinal accessory. The function of the former being confess- edly sensitive, it is highly probable that the latter nerves, which are apt to coalesce with them, should perform a similar ofiice. To determine this question by experiment is extremely difficult by reason of the small size of the internal branch and the great depth at which it is situate, which render it almost impossible to expose the nerve without injuring the vagus itself. Accordingly, we find the recorded statements of physiologists regarding the results of such experiments quite contradictory. The greatest number of ob- servers, and the most recent ones, give their evidence against the motor function of the internal branch, at least against the doctrine of its yielding the motor fibres of the vagus nerve. Most of them, however, agree in stating that a degree of hoai'seness and feebleness of voice always followed the section of the internal branch, as if some of the motor fibres of the laryngeal nerves were derived from it. From Miiller's and Dr. John Reid's experiments, by irritation of the spinal accessory nerve within the cranium, no conclusive results were obtained favourable to the view which assigns motor power to the internal branch; on the contrary, these experiments rather tend to prove that the vagus contains within itself the motor fibres sufficient for the parts it suppHes. These experimenters found that irritation of the trunk of the vagus, hefore its junction with the spinal acces- sory, caused contractions of the pharyngeal and laryngeal muscles, as well as of the fibres of the oesophagus. Respecting the external branch of the spinal accessory nerve, it has been already stated that experiment confirms the results deducible from anatomy. We know that the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscles receive nerves fi-om the cervical plexus as well as from the spinal accessory. If the latter be cut these muscles are not paralysed, although weakened, and continue to act in respiratory as well as in voluntary movements, contrary to the views of Sir C. Bell, who regarded the spinal accessory nerves VOL. II. K