LACTATION. 628 [chap. xliv. Fig. 297. Henle describes muscular fibres in these ducts; but KoUiker and most other anatomists have failed to detect them. We have searched for them carefully^ but with no better success. The blood-vessels are very numerous, and their finer branches ramify around the terminal follicles of the gland. The absorbents have been injected by Sir Astley Cooper, who describes a superficial set beneath the skin, and a deeper set of trunks which penetrate into the substance of the gland, and form a plexus of great beauty in the interior." In the male, the lacteal glands exist only in a very rudimentary condition ; but their structure is precisely similar to those of the fe- male, as Sir Astley Cooper demon- strated. In a few very rare instances, they have been unusually developed; and instances are even on record, where milk has been secreted by the lacteal gland of the male; indeed it has been related, by Humboldt, that the infant has been nourished by the male parent after the death of the female. The lacteal glands are developed like other glands connected with the skin. In the fom-th or fifth month, according to the observations of Langer and KoUiker, a papillary projection of the mucous layer Fig. 298. of the cpidcrmis occurs. This increases in size; and, by the sixth or seventh month, throAvs off a number of oflFsets, from which the lobes of the gland are gradually formed. Milk is white and opaque, from the presence of numerous oil-globides. Besides these, which are held in suspension, and are insoluble, milk contains numerous nutritious substances which exist dis- cie"- imiTgioS: solved in the fluid. After it has been allowed to fip%wra^J'seen rui^ staud for somo time, the oil-globules rise to the tn^nX'Zl InvS surfacc, by reason of their lightness, forming the membrane having been dissolved. Magnified ClttlJll. about 21,5 diameters. iisually does not obtain its normal charac- ters until three or four days after delivery. The first proportion, which is secreted before parturition, is thinner, and contains but a Lacteal gland of a ncwly-bom cliild. rudimentary follicles are well shown. Langer. The After