512 COLOURLESS CONSTITUENTS. [cilAl'. many instances corpuscles are seen evidently breaking up into small irregular masses of red colouriug matter. These appear- ances indicate that the red blood corpuscles are undergoing a pro- cess of disintegration, but this change also ap^jeara to be elfectcd in another and very peculiar manner, which was first described by KoUikcr. Several blood corpuscles (from one to nine or ten) collected together, appear to become covered with an investin^i membrane, adhering to the interior wall of which, a distinct nucleus may be observed. Such appears to be the manner in which these blood corpuscle-holding cells are formed, but whether the nucleus precedes the formation of the cell or succeeds it, is not known. The blood globules within now undergo disintegration in the manner just referred to, and at length the cell contains only coloured granules, varying in size and form. These granules gradually be- come of a golden yellow colour, and then paler, until at last the contents of the cell become almost decolourized. Occasionally, red crystals are seen in the blood corpuscles of the splenic parenchyma, as was first observed by Funke; and not uii- frequeutly numerous free coloured acicular crystals are met with. These appear to be the most important changes which take place in the disintegration of the red blood corpuscles in the spleen pulp. In some animals, the disintegration seems to occur entirely within the large cells ; while in others, the blood corpuscle-holding cells are very rarely met with, and the blood globules become broken down into coloured granules without being at any time en- closed in a cell. In other cases, again, both processes occur. In the course of very numerous observations upon the human subject, Mr. Gray only observed blood corpuscles enclosed in cells in two instances, and then in very small number. We may observe here, that Gerlach interprets these facts in a totally different manner, and considers that the changes taking place in the blood corpuscle-holding cells occur in the reverse order to that which we have described. In fact, he considers that the blood corpuscles are formed in these cells, commencing as irregular yellow granules, and gradually becoming developed into the perfect red blood globule. In this view Virchow appears to coincide. Dr. Hughes Bennett, of Edinburgh, also considers the spleen as a blood-forming organ. The changes above referred to take place in the spleen pulp which lies between the trabeculse, and, of course, external to tlie capillary vessels. Now, avc have to enquire how the blood corpuscles leave the vessels and enter the pulp.