495 * Phil. Ti-ans., 1842. CHAP. XXXIV.] OF THE SECRETION OF URINE. small and simple compared with those in the kidneys of animals which pass the ui'inary constituents in solution in a large quantity of water. There can be little doubt that the special function of the vessels of the tuft is^ to furnish the fluid portion of the urine while the soHd matter, composed of various organic constituents and inorganic saltSj is separated by the aid of the glandular epithelium which lines the convoluted portion of the tubes. "It would, indeed, be difficiilt to conceive a disposition of parts more calcu- lated to favour the escape of water from the blood than that of the Malpighian body, A large artery breaks up in a very direct manner into a number of minute branches, each of which suddenly opens into an assemblage of vessels of far greater aggregate capacity than itself, and from which there is but one narrow exit. Hence must arise a very abrupt retardation in the velocity of the current of blood. The vessels in Avhich this delay occurs are uncovered by any structm'e. They lie bare in a cell from which there is but one outlet."* The arrangement of the convoluted por- tion of the tubes is very similar to that of other secreting tubular gland-structures. We have a delicate basement membrane in con- tact Avith vessels upon one surface and having secreting epithelium upon the other. The capillary net-work sm-rounding the urinife- rous tubes is the coimterpart of that investing the tubes of the testes; and the epithelium is allied in structure to the best marked examples of glandular epithelium, and there can be no doubt that the function of these cells is such as we have described. There is no reason for supposing that the cells of epithelium undergo rapid decay and renovation ; it appears more probable that they are not being constantly shed, either in an entire or dismtegrated state, but that they have the power of selecting certain materials from the blood, and afterwards giving them up -ndthout their destruction. In the straight portion of the tubes the epithelium becomes thinner, and approaches more nearly to the pavement variety. It probably serves principally as a protective covering, and takes no part what- ever in the secretion of the urine.