[chap. XXXV 510 SPLEEN. Fig. 246. about the 300th of an inch in length, and about the ^-oVo^h of an inch broad in the centre, wbich is their widest part. They contain a distinct elongated or oval nucleus. The nucleus is often found bulging upon one side of the fibre cell, and in some instances appears only connected with it by a stalk. The cell is often much curved^ and sometimes bent upon itself, an appearance arising from its mode of development, which takes place, according to the obser- vations of Mr. H. Gray, by the solution of the cell wall at a point opposite the nucleus, which latter remains, and the cell wall itself forms the fibres which are prolonged from either side of it. In several of the mam- malia, both in the capsule and also in the trabecular, a number of muscular fibre cells, Avith a distinctly oval elongated nucleus, are pre- sent. The fibre may be en- tirely composed of these cells. They ai-e not present in the human spleen, but may be readily demonstrated in that of the sheep. The spleen possesses very slight power of contractility, and in experiments upon the spleen of the ox and sheep, Mr. Gray was unable to ob- tain marked contractions by the application of a strong galvanic current. Spleen Pulp—The spleen pulp, or parenchyma, the proper tissue of the spleen, is composed of peculiar colourless cells, containing masses of colouring matter, free coloured particles, granular matter, and blood corpuscles. The colourless portion of the spleen pulp is composed prmcipally of small ch'cular cells, or nuclei, about the size of a blood corpuscle, and having a faintlv granular appearance. These small nuclei vary somewhat in size, and are interspersed with a considerable quantity of granular matter, which is often collected around them, spleen pulp also contains a few nucleated vesicles, nearly an inch in diameter. \Iiiscu1iir fibre cells from the spleen of the sheep, maR- nifiea 400 (li.imetcrs. a, a. Fibres more highly mugiiified. After Mr. Gray. The _J til of