DEVELOPMENT [cHAP. XLll. frog are developed from a portion of yolk, which becomes separated from the general mass at a very early period, and is penetrated by a prolongation, posteriorly, of the vessel continuous with the cavity of the heart. At first there is no appearance of a division in this mass of yolk substance, which becomes separated from the remainder before any trace of the alimentaiy canal has manifested itself Subsequently, the two organs become more distinctly marked out. In the chick, according to the same observer, these organs are formed from a cellular growth upon the surface of the memhrana intermedia, which is separated from the rest of this membrane. At first, the two lobes of the liver are of equal size, but, after a time, the right lobe preponderates, as it does in the adult. Mr. Gray has figured the liver and pancreas of the chick. They seem to" be developed from two separate protrusions of the intes- tinal tube, about the ninetieth hour of incubation. No vestige of the spleen is to be detected at this early period. The following is Dr. Handfield Jones' account of the develop- ment of the liver in the chick. The pareuchyraatous portion is found to appear first; soon afterwards, an eminence, for which Dr. H. Jones proposes the name of colliculus, makes its appearance on the wall of that portion of the intestine which becomes the duodenum. From the latter tube pass two offsets to the liver; these, however, waste, but the colliculus remains. Subsequently, the cystic and hepatic ducts are developed close to the liver; they extend downwards, and open at the colliculus. In fishes and reptiles, the process of development is similar. Dr. H. Jones observes, that at one period the gall duct in tadpoles is lined by ciliated epithelium. Reichert describes the formation of the columns of liver cells, and their increase in number; but he considers that the cells are not invested with basement membrane. This question has, how- ever, been discussed in chapter xxxiii. Spleen.—Mr. Gray has demonstrated that the spleen arises in a fold of the intestinal laminae about the 114th hour of incubation in the chick; and it is probable that in the human subject its for- mation takes place dvu-ing the third or fom-th week. It is quite distinct from the pancreas from the earliest period of development. The first traces of the splenic vein are seen about the thirteenth day of incubation; and the first blood discs appear in the organ about the eighth day. The Malpigliian vesicles are not developed till about the twentieth or twenty-first day, when the period of in-