291 CHAP, xxvii.] THE CONSTITUTION OF THE BLOOD, I of large size, as the common frog, be passed through filtering ! paper, its liquid portion passes through, leaving the coloured I particles upon the filter: thus analyzing the blood into two parts —the liquor sanguinis and the hlood particles. The former, by the spontaneous coagulation of the fibrine, quickly separates into < serum and fibrine, which in this instance is colourless, but in the ordinary coagulation it is more or less coloured by the red parti- cles, which become entangled by the coagulating fibrine. Another mode of efi'ecting a similar analysis is that suggested by Dr, A. . Buchanan of Glasgow : it consists in mixing fresh-drawn blood with six or eight times its bulk of serum, and filtering through I blotting-paper: coagulation is retarded by the admixture with i serum, and a great part of the diluted liquor sanguinis passes through the filter, and subsequently coagulates. By microsco- pical analysis of the blood we find, that, besides the red parti- cles, it contains others which are devoid of colouring matter— namely, the colourless cor2iUscles. The constitution of the blood is expressed by the following table :— {corpuscles ; red and colourless, liquor sanguinis, consisting of | '""i^s- I serum. That the blood has the same essential characters in both the vertebrate and invertebrate classes has been shown by Mr. Whar- ton Jones's researches, who finds the coloured and colourless corpuscles in the blood of all animals, presenting, however, suffi- ciently distinctive features. In man and the mammalia there are two kinds of blood, dis- tinguished by difference of hue, the scctrlet, arterial hlood, obtained from the left side of the heart, and from the arteries : and the Hack, or dark red, venous hlood, obtained from the right side of the heart, and from the systemic veins. We shall consider further on the special characters of each kind, and the cause of their differences. The temperature of the blood ranges between ] 00° and ] 05°. Its reaction is slightly alkaline, so that a drachm of blood will saturate rather more than a drop of vinegar. The consideration of the natural history of the human blood involves the determination of the following points :— First, the quantity of blood in the body. Secondly, the phenomenon of coagulation, and the circumstances which promote or retard it.