CHAP, xxn.] CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD. 153 Thus, milk consists of water, sugar, oily matters (butter), caseine ; and wheat, a substance of almost universal application for food, ex- hibits an analogous union of starch, the representative of the saccha- rine group—and of gluten, representing the albuminous. It must be borne in mind that the albuminous aliments are distin- guished from those of other groups by their containing nitrogen. Food of this kind is especially fitted to be directly assimilated to muscle, nerve, and the other animal tissues, into the composition of which nitrogen enters largely. These aliments contribute directly to the formation of the blood, from which the tissues attract the prin- ciples most proper for their nourishment. The non-nitrogenous aliments are obviously fitted to nourish those textures which do not contain nitrogen, as the fat, or to supply those secretions in which carbon abounds, as the bile. Moreover, they furnish those large supplies of carbon which we are warranted in supposing the animal ceconomy stands greatly in need of, not only from the great amount of that element which is to be found in all the tissues, but also from the large excretion of carbonic acid which is constantly taking place from the respiratory and other surfaces of the animal body. The formation of carbonic acid in the ceconomy by the union of carbon and oxygen is, no doubt, the im- mediate cause of the generation of animal heat, and thus the supply of carbon in the food becomes of great importance to the maintenance of the proper temperature of animals. From the natural subdivision of the food of man into two classes —one, consisting of the nitrogenized matters, well adapted by their constitution for the formation of blood; and the other, the non- nitrogeuized substances, serving to supply a large amount of carbon, Liebig proposes to name the former the plastic elements of nutrition, and the latter elements of respiration. To the first term we see no objection—but the use of any term which would imply that respiration must be, as it were, fed directly through the digestive process, appears to us scarcely consistent with the real facts of the case. The respiratory process is partly a process of sup- ply, and partly one of depuration. It supplies oxygen, and it assists in the removal of effete matters in the shape of carbonic acid. The effete particles of the tissues would probably supply sufficient car- bonic acid to effect the attraction of the required amount of oxygen —but as the supply of oxygen has the ulterior object of generating a due amount of heat, there will be required for this purpose a larger quantity of carbon than can be obtained merely from the destructive assimilation of the tissues (to use Dr. Proufs exprestfion). Hence,