CHAP. XXXIV.J MALPIGIIIAN BODIES. 487 Fig. 231. mammalia, and are often larger towards the base of the cones. They are, for the most part, of a spherical, oval, or flask-like form. A small artery afferent ves- sel may be seen to enter the tiift, and a minute venous radicle efferent vessel to emerge from it in close proximity to the artery (Fig. 231). The Malpighian body itself consists of a rounded bunch of capillaries de- rived from the afl'erent and terminating in the eflFerent vessel, the former dividing over the surface, the latter emerging from the interior. This vascular tuft lies within a clear and perfectly transparent capsule, lined at its lower part with epithelium. The epithelium, which is con- tinued upwards from the uriniferous tube into its flask-like dilatation, can- not usually be traced for more than about one- third of the length of the capsule (Fig. 3, p. 65, Vol. I.); but in the proteus (Fig. 232), the capsule is seen to be entirely lined with an exceedingly thin layer of delicate epithelium, the cells of which are of an oval, or poly- hedral form, with a very large gi-auular nucleus, and about the yfo of an inch in diameter. The capsule itself consists of hyaloid membrane, which is directly continuous with the basement mem- brane of the convoluted portion of the tube. In fact, each urini- ferous tubule terminates by a dilatation which embraces the vessels of the tuft, and is intimately united to them at the point where they enter and emerge. The continuity of the tube with the Malpighian capsule has From the liiimiin subject. This specimen exhibits the'ter- miiintion of a considerable arterial brancli wliolly in Malphl- ghian tufts, a. Arterial branch, with its terminal twigs. At a, the injection has only partially filled the tuft. At j3 it has entirely filled it, and has also passed out alonj? the efferent vessel e/without any extravasation. At 7 it has burst into the cap-jule, and escaped along the tube t, but has al.-^o filled the efferent vessel e f. At 5 and c it has e.\travasated, and passed along the tube. At m and ni the injection, on escaping into the capsule, has not spread over the whole tuft. Magnified about 4.5 diameters. I