614 DEVELOPMENT [chap, xliii. supplies successive generations of cells as the old ones are gra dually removed. The wall of the venous sinus Mg. 288. Relation hetween the foetal and maternal vessels; after Dr. Reid. FcBtal tuft dipping into dilated venous sinus. 1. Curling arter>' of uterus. 2. Uterine vein. 3. Sinus. 4. Vessels of foetal tuft, composed of a small branch of ai-tery and vein. nous sinuses of the mother. Dr. J, Fig. 289. of the mother, reflected from tuft to tuft, forms numerous tubular processes, passing in various directions amongst them; thus connecting the several tufts with each other, and forming a sort of support- ing framework for the entire organ. The tubular prolonga- tions, of course, contain cells of the decidua in their inte- rior, and by their outer sur- face are continuous with the lining membrane of the ve- Reid has shown that the foetal tufts often dip quite in- to the uterine sinuses. Weber has made some beautiful injec- tions of the foetal tufts, Avhich demon- strate vexy satisfacto- rily the highly tor- tuous nature of the capillaries, and show that the convoluted capillary vessel may make many turns from one foetal loop into another, before it opens into one of the branches of the umbilical vein. Dr. Reid describes the blood brought by the curling arteries of the uterus as being poured " into a large sac formed by the inner coat of the vascular system of the mother," from which the blood is carried back by the veins. The researches of Dr. J. Reid agree with those of Weber; but Eschricht holds, that in man the ai'- rangement is essentially the same as in animals; and that the capillaries of the placenta of the human foetus are brought into relation Avith the capillaries only of the mother. In many animals, the maternal and foetal portions of the placenta can be very readily separated from each other; but in man this cannot be done without tearing the vessels. The formation of the placenta commences in the human subject uterine sinuses and foetal tufts; after Dr. Reid. — I. Cm-ling artery of the uterus. 2. Uterine sinus, into ■vvliich a tuft is pro- longed. 3. Foetal tuft. 4. Foetal vessels branclUng.