CHAP. XXXI.] HUMAN LARYNX. trical) essential to this meclianism, and there are four smaller, accessory cartilages. The first are the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages, the epiglottis, and the arytenoid cartilages, which are symmetrical. To these may be added the cuneiform cartilages and the cornicula, which are merely sesamoid bodies destined to keep the folds of mucous membrane in proper position. The cricoid cartilage is a ring, whose lower margin is parallel to, and united by fibrous membrane with, the first ring of the trachea. Its upper margin slopes from behind forwards, and from above downwards, so that the posterior surface of the cartilage is con- siderably deeper than the anterior, and affords two large concave surfaces for the attachment of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. Its upper border is connected in front with the lower margin of the alse of the thyi-oid cartilage by an expansion of yellow fibrous tissue, which is particularly thick in front, called the crico-thyroid ligament, and which fills up the space called by surgical anatomists the erico-thyroid space. This space and ligament, bounded on each side by the crico-thyroid muscle, are penetrated by the trocar in the operation of laryngotomy. The posterior half of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage exhibits on each side an oval convex ai'ticular surface on which plays one of the arytenoid cartilages. The thyroid cartilage consists of two square plates of cartilage united at an acute angle in front; each of these is prolonged at the upper and lower corners behind, into a long superior process {superior cornu) and a very short inferior process {inferior cornu). By the superior process, and along the whole superior border of its alffi, the thyroid cartilage is united to the os hyoides by the thyro-hyoid ligament. Each inferior process rests upon the outer surface of the cricoid cartilage, and plays upon a small cii'cular plane articular facet situated thereon. By the angular union of the two alae of the thyroid cartilage in front, a projection is formed beneath the integuments which is most prominent in the male, and is commonly known as the pomum Adami. Into the hoUow angle behind, the vocal chords are in- serted, and also the stalk and ligament of the epiglottis. The broad outer surfaces of the alse, give attachment to muscles along an oblique line, which is suflficiently conspicuous between the middle and lower third of each. The thyro-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles are thus attached. To the inner surface of each ala are inserted the thyro-arytenoid and the crico-thyroid muscles. By the gliding of the inferior horns of the thyroid upon the articular facet on the outer surface of the cricoid cartilage, a