DEVELOPMENT. 618 [chap, xliii. Fig. 291. The specific gravity of this specimen was 1009-2, and it con- tained in 1000 parts— Water . Solid matter Organic matter soluble in water . Fixed alkaline salts .... Albumen, earthy salts, and fatty matter 982-00 18-00 6-11 8-09 3-80 In 100 parts solid matter. 33-94 44-94 21-11 Dr. Prout found sugar of milk in the liquor amnii of a cow, at an early period of pregnancy. Umbilical Vesicle.—We have alluded to the mode of formation of the umbilical vesicle in page 584. Our friend, Mr. Grainger, has made some very important observations on its minute struc- ture and fanctions in the chick. At a very early period, the lining membrane of the umbilical vesicle presents the appearance of a highly organised mucous membrane, the surface of which is perfectly smooth. After a time, a number of folds, which were termed " valves" by Haller, make their appearance. By the ninth day, these are considerably developed, and project into the yolk. The folds become more complicated and numerous; and by the nineteenth day, arc as much as of an inch in depth in the deepest part. Upon the folds, and in the intervals between them, grayish-white corpuscles are very numerous. Mr. Dalrymple lias shown that these cells may be washed away from the vessels beneath, of which he has made very beautiful injections. The yellow appearance of the vessels, whence they have been called vasa lutea by Haller, is due to their being entirely covered with these yellowish corpuscles. The surfaces of the folds of the membrane are highly vascu- lar, and the majority of the capillaries spread out upon them are probably venous. Thus the surface of the umbilical vesicle is enor- mously increased in extent, in a manner precisely similar to that in which the mu- cous membrane of the intestines is ex- tended by the arrangement of the valvulae connivcntes. Such is the character of the vascular surface by which all the nutritive ana"vL"m'teaX%"" constitucuts of the yolk are absorbed, ttk.:!"Frof«ti™r"*which are afterwards carried to the sys-