96 [chap. XVllI. INNERVATION. The idea of Boerliaave, and of Bressa, that sounds from without which enter the mouth, or the sounds of one"'s own voice, were con- ducted by the Eustachian tube to the labyrinth, is disproved by the simple experiment of holding a sounding tuning-fork or a watch in the open mouth, when it will be always found, if due care be taken to avoid contact, that the sounds proceeding from them are not so well heard as those from without, and the nearer they are brought to the Eustachian tube the less distinctly are they heard. Indeed it may be always noticed that persons deaf from obstruction of the Eustar chian tube hear the sounds of their own voices well. Of the Labyrinth.—The essential part of the organ of hearing is the vestibule. This is sufficiently proved by the constancy of this part in the animal series, and by its central position in the most complex ears, so that it is in close relation not only with the other parts of the labyrinth but also with the tympanum. Sound is conveyed to the labyrinth in a threefold manner: first, by the chain of bones; secondly, by the air in the tympanic cavity; in both these instances the external air is engaged in the conduction; and thirdly, through the bones of the head. Midler has shown by a very interesting experiment that whilst the air in the tympanum conducts sound to the cochlea through the fenestra rotunda, the chain of bones forms a much better conductor of it to the vestibule through the fenestra ovalis. He imitated the structure of the tympanum by means of a glass cylinder, two inches and one-third in diameter, and six inches long; to the neck of this he fixed a wooden tube, the diameter of whose bore was eight lines. The upper end of this tube was adapted to the mouth of the metal flute-pipe of an organ, one foot in length ; its lower extremity was covered with a tense membrane of pig's bladder, which rejjresented the membrana tympani, the tube itself corresponding to the meatus externus, and the cavity of the glass cylinder to the tympanum. The lower opening of the glass cylinder was closed by a thick piece of cork, in which two holes were cut equidistant from the walls of the cylinder. In these holes, which represented the fenestra;, two wooden tubes were fitted, whose outer openings were covered with membrane. From the membrane of the upper tube to one of these membranes, a rod was extended to imitate the chain of tympanic bones extending between the membrane. The lower extremity of this apparatus (that namely which was fitted with cork) was now introduced into water, to imitate the con- nexion between the tympanum and the labyrinth in which sound is conducted from air to liquid. Miiller, having plugged his ears.