I INNERVATION. [chap. xvi. tilages, with their appendages.— iii -ii perior maxillary bones, and communicating by narrow apertures with one or other meatus. The nasal fossa are lofty and of considerable depth, but much narrowed in lateral extent by the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum, which they almost touch. They open in front by the nostrils, which, by their horizontal position, direct the air, as it enters, towards the upper region, where the sense of smell is developed ; behind, they lead, through a vertical slit on each side, the posterior nares or nostrils, into the upper compartment of the pharynx, above the soft palate, into which the food never penetrates, which is strictly a part of the respiratory tract, and which commu- nicates through the Eustachian tubes with the middle ear. The nostrils, as parts of the countenance, and placed as safeguards at the commencement of the air-passages, are more elaborately organ- ized than the posterior nares, which indeed are simple communica- tions, without any thing remarkable in their construction, except the shelving of the floor of the nose into the upper surface of the soft palate, favouring the gravitation of mucus from the nose into the pharynx. The nostrils have a cartilaginous framework, which keeps them open, unless forcibly compressed. This framework consists of five principal pieces: one in the middle, the septal car- tilage, a, completing the septum in front; and two on each side, the lateral and alar cartilages, 5, c, forming re- spectively the side of the nose below the nasal bones, and the wing of the nose. The former of these is triangular, and rests against the front edge of the septal cartilage ; the latter is thinner and more flexible, and curved upon itself to form the dilatable chamber just within the nostril. Several loose nodules or flakes of cartilage frequently exist in con- nexion with the alar cartilages. The nostrils are further supplied with three pairs of mus- cles ; viz. that called by Albinus compressor naris, but which is rather a lateral dilator, the levator and depressor alee nasi. By these Front view of the cartilages of ^j^g orificcs are dilated when we sniff the air the nose. Above is seen the out- ^ _ lineofthenasaibones —a. Front jjj smelline-, as Well as uuder the influence edge of the septal cartilage. 0,0. . . Lateral cartilages. c,<?. Alarcar- of Certain passious. The integfuments of the After soeramerring. nosB are studdcd With the orifices of sebaceous follicles, which are among the largest in the body, and so numerous as to form a thick continuous layer under the cutis ; and immedi- Fig. 102.