CHAP, xxxii.] GLAND-CELL. In the accompanying divwing of one of the crecal tubes 455 of the liver of Fig. 215. the cray-fish (astacus affinis), after Lcidy the gradual transition from the granular matter at the bot- tom of the folhcle to the perfectly formed cells which are being dis- charged from its summit is well seen. In the glandules of Peyer, al- ready described (ante p. 233), it would seem that vesicles form un- derneath, but in immediate con- tiguity with, the mucous mem- brane, and becoming filled with glandular contents, having the na- ture of nuclei, exhibit a great proneness to bm'st, and liberate their contents, perhaps periodi- cally, on the free surface of the membrane. The ova, too, are very generally elaborated in the first instance in a matrix, or stroma, placed beneath, and not upon, the surface fi'om which they are to be discharged. But, notwithstand- ing these diflferences, which will be fm-ther considered, it must be borne in mind that the gland- cells, or secreting elements, in the true glands, are always so placed as to be able to discharge them- _ 1 4.1, ■ 1 r^-n i-'V^a CiEcal tilinry tiibeof Cray-fisli. At f,e,d,c,h, selves or tneir piOaUCCS on ine are shown cells in different stages as they advance . „ /» _ fr"™ the lower part towards the outlet. After outer sm'iace. Leidy. Of the Gland-Cell.—The gland-cells select and separate from the blood the substances which form their secreted product. These ele- ments form, in fact, in a certain sense apart of the food or pabulum of these secreting cells, which is set free when the cell has arrived at ma- turity, either by its rupture or by its complete detachment from the surface upon which it has grown, or, as occurs in other in stances merely by transudation through its walls upon one side, while new matter is supplied to it from the plasma upon the other. Thus the function of secretion bears a certain analogy to nutrition. The cells in both processes select from the blood certain elements adapted for their