436 [chap. xxxr. VOICE. insertions of the thyro-arytenoid muscles, whence the fibres radiate downwards, obliquely baclvM'ards, and even somewhat upwards, forming a continuous membrane which passes to thc cricoid and arytenoid cartilages, lines thc ventricles of the larynx, and is connected with the crico-thyroid ligaments and the vocal chords, both true and false. The thyro-hyoid ligament is likewise elastic; and also the fibrous bands which coimect the epiglottis to thc thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone and the tongue. " If," says MUller, " we add to these parts the clastic longitudinal fibres in the membranous part of the trachea and bronchi, we shall have an idea of the great extent of the tissues susceptilile of consensual vibration and resonance in the parts surrounding the organ of voice." * The mucous membrane of the larynx is part of the great respira- tory tract, described at page 163, and possesses the same anatomical characters at many points, being covered by ciliated epithelium. It is involuted to a considerable extent, forming numerous glands which cover the epiglottis, and are scattered over the interior of the larynx. We have seen that the cricoid cartilage may move freely on the thyroid, or vice versa; and thc arytenoids may be moved in various directions on the upper border of the cricoid. More- over, suspended, as it is, loosely in front of the pharynx and ffisophagus, the whole apparatus of the larynx may be moved freely up and down in the neck, approximating, or reced- ing from the lower jaw. For these various movements tlie larynx is provided with two sets of muscles—the extrinsic, by which the whole organ is View oflnrjTix from aljovc, after Willis, b. Uga- ^^QyQ^ and thc intrinsic, ments uniting ao'tenoid and cricoid cartiUige.s. c. > , , , i andrf. Direction of axis on which the thyroid cartdaKC ^ggtuied tO rCgulatC thC mOVC- tunis. c. Thyroid cartilage, fr. Left thyro.arytenoid ui.ai-ui...v^ S, muscle; right removed. I, v, r. Cricoid cartilage, jjig^tg of thc VariOUS seg- m. Right crico-arytenoid muscle. «. Arytenoid cur- tilages. 0. Crico-ao'tenoidic-postici muscles, r. 1 os- j^Qj^tS. tcrior part of cricoid cartilage, t.v. voaU ligaments. Fig. 212. * MuUer's Physiology, by Baly, vol. ii., p. 1005.