CHAP. XXXV.] MALPIGHIAN CORPUSCULES. 515 The splenic corpuscles are placed upon a small branch of the arteries as upon a short peduncle or stalk, which sometimes con- sists only of fibrous tissue, prolonged from the sheath of the vessels, or they lie in the angle formed by the divergence of two branches from each other. The artery divides into numerous branches upon the surface of the Malpighian corpuscles. The observations of Kolliker and Dr. Sanders, which have lately been confirmed by Prof. Huxley, have shown that the substance of the corpuscle itself is traversed by small capillary blood-vessels. These small vessels probably pour their blood into small veins which surround the corpuscle, and are of considerable size. According to Mr. Gray, these veins receive the secretion of the Malpighian bodies. The Malpighian corpuscle does not appear to us to be invested with a distinct and well-defined membranous capsule; but we are inclined to agree with Remak and Leydig, who represent their contents as not being separated by any distinct line of demarcation from the splenic pulp, although the fibrous tissue derived from the external wall of the vessels appears to form a sort of imperfect capsule. The cells of which these bodies are composed readily pass from them into the pulp. Mr. Gray has made the interesting observation, that these bodies are very large, and well defined in well-fed animals, and that, during the latter part of the digestive process, they increase in size, while, in animals insufiiciently fed, they are very small, or absent altogether. In the latter, little in- crease is noticed in their size after digestion. Their increase is con- siderable under the influence of an albuminous diet; but when animals are confined to fat or gelatine, these bodies are not to be distinguished. Veins of the Sjjleen.—The splenic vein is the largest branch of the vena porta, and, like the others, is destitute of valves. The branches into which the vein divides, do not communicate -with each otlier in the substance of the organ. Mr. Gray describes three diflferent modes in which the veins commence:—!. As con- tinuations of the capillaries of the arteries, which is the most common method; 2. By inter-cellular spaces in the substance of the spleen pulp through which the veins communicate with each other. The smallest veins commence in this manner; or 3. By form- ing an imperfect capsule to each Malpighian body. This latter mode of commencement has not been described by other observers, and Mr. Gray considers these small veins as the channels by which the secretion of the Malpighian bodies is carried into the circulation. The vein ramifies abundantly upon the sm-face of the spleen,