ANIMAL HEAT. 424 [chap. XXX. animals have shown that in starvation the fatty matters, which are most readily convertible into carbonic acid, are first removed, soon afterwards the substance of the muscles is acted upon, in order to furnish an amount of heat, without the development of which life would at once cease ; next the nervous system gives way to this oxydizing power,—life ceases, and every portion of the organic material, with the exception of the mineral matters combined with it, is brought under the destructive influence of the oxygen. M. Chossat found that, taking 40 per cent, as the mean, fat lost 93-3, blood 75, heart 44-8, muscles 42-3, skin 33-3, bones 167, and the nervous system only 1-9 per cent, of their weight in fatal starvation. The time required to produce death from starvation varies ac- cording to different circumstances. If the body be very fat, life will be supported for a longer period than if only a small quantity of fatty material be present. A fat pig, which was confined by a slip of earth, lived 160 days without food, and during this period he lost more than 120 lbs. (Martell Trans. Linn. Soc., vol. xi. p. 411, quoted in Liebig's letters). While death from starvation would be retarded by warmth, little or no exercise, and a moderate supply of water, it would be much accelerated by the converse of these circumstances. Influence of Disease.—In acute diseases accompanied with fever, such as pneumonia, plem'isy, acute rheumatism, and in scarlatina, typhoid fever, etc., the temperature often rises several degrees above the normal standard, not uufrequently reaching 105° or 106° F. Dr. Edwards observed the temperature as high as llOJ in a case of tetanus. This high temperature sometimes decreases rapidly, and sometimes very gradually, the diminution being fre- quently accompanied by free perspiration and copious excretion of urine, rich in urea and lithates. The frequency of the pulse also diminishes at the same time. This increased development of heat, during the exacerbation of the fever, is associated with the increased amount of disintegration of tissues taking place at that time; while the remission is accompanied by the elimination of the resulting compounds, free perspiration, diminished frequency of pulse, and corresponding decrease of temperature.* In those diseases, on the other hand, where the activity of the che- mical processes going on in the body is impaired, the temperature falls many degrees below the normal standard. In cholera, where the dark blood and imperfect respiration mark the introduction of an • See a review, by Dr. H. "Weber, in the Medico-Ckir. Eeview, Jm.l853, on Crises and Critical Days, by Dr. L. Ti-aube. Berlin, 1852.