[CHAF. XXXIV. KIDNEY. 492 Fig. 238. over which they spread. Fig. 237. From these arteries smaller branehes are given off, which ascend in the cortical substance nearly to the sur- face, and, in so doing, give off, on all sides, a number of small terminal twigs, the afferent vessels of the Mal- pighian bodies. Arrived within the capsule, the small afferent vessel at once divides into four or five branches, eacli of which again divides dichotomously. The small capillary vessels form loojjs, which project towards the opening of the uriniferous tube. The blood is re- ceived from these vessels, which lie towards the outside of the tuft, by branches of the efferent vessel which converge towards the more central part of the tuft to form one trunk, whicli leaves the Malpighian body, and soon breaks up into a plexus of capillary vessels, in the meshes of which the tubes lie. The terminal arterial twigs with their appended tufts, when injected with vermilion, have been compared not inaptly to a bunch of currants. The size and complexity of the Malpighian bodies differ much in different animals, according to the activity of the function they are called upon to discharge. The ves- sels present fewer convolutions, the tufts are smaller, and their arrange- ment much simpler in those animals, in Fromthepmnit ; i.jcctcdbytlieavtcry. «,«,«. Tevmiiml br.mclies whlch the UHUC IS of tlie arter>'. af,af, a f. Terminal twigs of tlie artery, d. Dilatation of , , c g^J^f^ the ternnnaUwig ot/enterinR the >Inlpistimn capsule, m. This <lilntat,on aimOSt OI a bUlU more completely filled, showing its convoluted form; and, c>/, c/, tlie ponsistcnCC. Com- ellerenl vessel, c. The Malpighian capsule filled by extravasation from I-Uil&l&iuiiuc. flic contained vessel, and the tube tlikewise filled. MagmUcd about p^re the Complicated 80 dian.etcrs. " . nor rl arrangement in the horse and other mammalia m figs. 26b ana 237, with the few and simple convolutions in birds, fig. 238. Ba- reference to the folloAving table, it will be seen that the diameter Malplehian tuft, from near the ba.se of one of tlie medullary cones, injected without cxtrava.sation, and showing the eflerent vein branching like an ariery as It runs into the medullary cone. a. Ar- terial branch, a f. The aft'ercnt vessel, m, m. Malpighian tuft. ef. The efferent vessel, b. Its branches entering the medullary cono. Maiiuificd about 70 diameteiu.