136 [chap. XXX. INNERVATION. and subdividing as tliey ascend, so as to form a plexus around that artery, the cavernous or carotid plexus. With this plexus numerous communications take place: there is one with MeckcFs ganglion, another with the tympanic plexus ; a branch to the ophthalmic gan- glion, and one or two large ones to the sixth nerve, which formerly were regarded as roots of the sympathetic from that nerve; also one or two filaments to the third pair, and small branches attaching them- selves to the ramifications of the carotid artery within the cranium. Communications exist between the superior cervical ganglion, and the several portions of the eighth pair, and the ninth pair at their exit from the cranium. Inferiorly the superior cervical ganglion is continued into a cord of communication with the middle, or, when that is wanting, with the inferior cervical ganglion. The arterial and visceral branches of the superior cervical ganglion, are, 1. The delicate gray nerves to the internal carotid artery, (nervi molles of Scarpa,) which, with branches from the glossopharyngeal, and vagus, form a plexus round the internal, external and common carotid arteries. 2. Pharyngeal branches, which, with filaments from the vagus and glossopharyngeal, form the pharyngeal plexus. 3. La- ryngeal branches accompanying the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus. 4. A cardiac nerve, not always present, and very variable in size, (the superior cardiac mrve of Scarpa), which either united with a similar nerve from the middle, or inferior cervical ganglion, or alone, passes along the carotid artery into the chest, to contribute to form the plexus of nerves belonging to the heart. The middle cervical ganglion is very inconstant; it is placed opposite the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, and besides the branches of continuation with the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, it gives off one visceral branch, namely, the middle cardiac \\Qx\e,{nervus cardiacus magnus of Scarpa,) which is the largest of the three, and in default of the ganglion comes off from the intercommunicating cord. This nerve has a similar course to the inferior one; it is often absent, and its place is then supplied by filaments, which take a similar course, but are derived from the superior nerve, or from the vagus. The inferior cervical ganglion. This ganglion is situate very low down in the neck, and is very deep seated; it corresponds to the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, to the head of the first rib, and is closely connected with the origin of the vertebral artery. It is frequently fused with the first thoracic ganglion, and is connected above with the middle, or, in its absence, with the