THE INTESTINAL GLANDS. 231 CHAP. XXV.] Fig. 104. free extremities, mid the peculiar vesicular structure at the apices of the villi is compressed, or otherwise concealed from view or altered in character. (Fig. 160.) Lastly the epithelium seems to adhere much less closely to the villi during chylification than during fasting; and the epithelial particles themselves appear to undergo some change during this process. This latter change is represented in the annexed cut (fig. 163) ; the epithelial particles appear larger, their contents more distinct, and consisting of minute fatty grains as well as of some small globules. 0/ the Glands of the Intestine.—These are, in addition to the Lieberkuhn's tubes or follicles already described, and which are themselves secreting organs: 1. Brunner's or the duodenal glands ; 2. the solitary glands; 3. Peyer's glands, or glanduU aggregate. Brunner's glands belong properly to the duodenum. They were discovered and described by J. 0. Brunn in 1686. We find them in the submucous areolar tis- sue, disposed as a more or less thick layer of whitish grains, immedi- ately beneath the mucous membrane. They may be J , ,1 , , Vertical section of the mucous membrane of the duodenum compared to the element- in the horse, sUghtly magnified, showing, v, villi, b, c, mucous /. ■.. membrane and submucous tissue, g. Brunner's glands cut ary grams OI a salivary vertically, and a Uttle spread out, showing their lobulatcd 1 J J J. structure. gland spread out on an expanded surface, instead of being collected into a mass. Near the pylorus they are most numerous, and most closely set and largest; towards the termination of the duodenum they become much fewer, smaller, and scattered; and nothing resembling them is found in any other portion of the intestine. They are much more developed in the Herbivora than the Carnivora; in man they are large and numerous, generally speaking, but exhibit a good deal of variety in different subjects, and in the very old they appear to have wasted and shrunk. In point of structure Brunner's glands resemble precisely the pancreas. Their ultimate elements are bunches of vesicles which contain globular epithelium, and from which ducts arise which coalesce and form larger ducts, through which the secretion is poured into the duodenum. The exact relation of these ducts to the tubes of Lieberkiihn is not known. Brunner's glands, no doubt, secrete a fluid similar, perhaps, in