OF THE HUMAN EMBRYO. CHAP. XLI.] 591 Fig. 282. reptile or a fish. All seem to be developed upon one general plan. The oi'gans are evolved in the same ordei'j and the organic functions in the manner of their performance are precisely analo- gous. After this point has been reached, however, the distinctive characters are well marked, and then it is very easy to say whether the embryo is to assume permanently the condition of a fish, reptile, bird, or mammal. One of the youngest human ova which has been examined, is described by Mr. Wharton Jones, and was aborted in the third or fourth week after impregnation. It was about the size of a pea, and was probably detached at a somewhat earlier period. Villi were seen on one side only of the chorion. At one end of the ovum, lying in the midst of a gelatinous material, was the germi- nal vesicle, but the embryo was not yet visible upon it. Dr. Allen Thomson has examined two human ova at a some- what later period. One was a quarter of an inch, and the other half an inch, in diameter. The embryo was about one line in length (Fig. 282). It lay nearly flat upon the yolk-sac, no con- striction being as yet formed. The dorsal laminae were dis- tinct, and had not yet united together. There was neither allantois nor amnion. This ovum was examined about fifteen days after conception. MM. Pockels and Coste have had an opportunity of examining an ovum about this period, in which the act ^ , , o ^ ^ . " A Human ovum described and figured by Dr. Allen umbilical vesicle and allan- I'lo^so". about fifteen days after conception, magnified ten diameters, a. The open vertebral canal, bounded by the tOlS were seen very distinctlv ^i""'"* ^lorsales. 6. Folds of the intestinal groove. c.Po- ~, ' s't'O" of the heart, d Yolk sac. e. A piece of membrane ilie embryo lay in the ^^'■''aps connected with the formation of the Cliorlon. amniotic fluid; but the allantois had not yet become connected with the inner surface of the chorion. In another embryo described by Dr. Allen Thomson, about five or six weeks after conception, the allantois was attached to the chorion, and there existed an umbi- lical cord, which was not yet enclosed in its sheath formed by the amnion. It was the eighth of an inch in length. The heart pro- jected in the form of a looped vessel from the anterior aspect of the body. The intestine was straight and opened into the yolk-sac, and the opening of the anus was not yet formed. The umbilical vesicle was becoming narrower near the embryo. Two branchial