CHAP. XXXIV.] VESSELS UNCOVERED BY EPITHELIUM. 489 tinues in very active motion many hours after the death of the animal (vide Fig. 3, Vol. I.) In the newt, and m some snakes and other reptiles, the tube is completely hned with ciUatcd epithelium throughout; and by the activity of the motion, the epithehum can be tr.aced for one-third of the way within the capsule. Ciliated epithelium has not yet been demonstrated in the kidneys of mam- malia; but in one instance Gerlach has seen it in the kidney of the fowl. In various fishes and in many reptiles it is very fre- quently met with. The statement of Gerlach and other observers, that the vessels of the IMalpighian tuft are invested with epithelium, may be ex- plained by the fact that small granular or nucleated cells may be frequently observed in connexion with the vessels. After repeated and careful observation, we are convinced that these cells are situ- ated either within the vessel itself or enclosed in its wall (Fig. 233). In the tuft of batrachian reptiles, the 233. white corpuscles of the blood often small oval or circular cells within the wall of the capillary vessel itself, and are inclined to look upon these as the nuclei of ;; vessels. Here and there a granular cell may sometimes be detected ; on the surface, but they are very few in number and irregular in I their arrangement; and we are satisfied that it cannot be regarded as a fact of any physiological importance, and that the vessels of the tuft are really bare within the capsule. Convoluted Portion of the Tube.—From the capsule of the Mal- ' pighian tuft, we pass to the convoluted portion of the tube, w^hich is directly continuous with it. This is composed of a delicate base- ment membrane, lined by epithelium. Externally, the basement ; membrane is in close contact and probably incorporated with the ! matrix of the organ; and it is in immediate relation with an abund- ant capillary plexus, which carries the blood after it has passed ithrough the vessels of the Malpighian body. It is from this blood, VOL. II. K K give the idea of being connected with the wall of the vessels, instead of lying in their interior. When the vessels are much shrunken, and their walls a little plaited, or corru- gated, the appearance of cells lying