CHAP. XLII.] 601 ORGAN OF HEARING. About the third day of incubation a fissure, which commences at the border of the lens, is seen in the eye of the chick, which Huschke regards as the consequence of inversion of the retina. In fishes, the cleft running from the centre, towards the anterior border of the retina, exists throughout life. In the turtle there is a fissure in the nerve but not in the retina. Jacob's membrane is not developed before the thirteenth or four- teenth day of incubation. Mr. Gray describes it as forming at this period an exceedingly fine pale granular stratum upon the choroidal surface of the retina. The circle of the iris is seen in the anterior part of the choroid at a very early period; but the pupil is occupied by a highly vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris. This is not attached to the margin of the iris, but to its anterior surface, from which it derives its vessels; and it is probable that it is reflected over the whole anterior surface of the iris, and possibly lines the anterior chamber of the eye. From the margin of the iris, there extends backwards another vascular membrane, the membrana capsulo- pupillaris, which is united to the border of the capsule of the lens. This membrane forms a closed sac, the anterior part of which is united to the membrana pupiUaris; while the posterior portion lines the anterior concave surface of the vitreous body. This is supplied with vessels by the capsular branch of the arteria centralis retinje; and at the margin of the iris, the vessels of the membrana pupillaris, and those of the membrana capsulo-pupillaris, commu- nicate with those of the iris. The erjelids are first developed in the form of a ring, which extends over the surface of the eye; and afterwards the two por- tions which are to be developed into the lids become adherent to each other. They separate again, either before birth, as in the human subject—or after birth, as in the carnivora and some other classes. Organ of Hearing.—The ear appears, at a very early period, upon the vesicular protrusion which ultimately becomes the auditory nerve. It communicates with the cavity of the fourth ventricle, and is situated above the second branchial cleft. The first rudi- ments of the auditory vesicle were seen by Mr. Gray about the fiftieth hour of incubation in the chick. Throughout the life of the cyclostomous fishes, the ear retains the condition which it presents at an early period of development in the mammalia. Valentin describes the labyrinth as appearing in the form of a separate body of a somewhat elongated form. The inner extremity forms a turn