THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, [chap, xxviii. 324 take a similar course, and the arrangement continues to be repeated until the resulting branches are reduced to a very small size, when they pass into the capillary system. This mode of frequent sub- division and anastomosis is seen in the arteries which convey blood to the intestine,—the mesenteric arteries. A third form is where two neighbouring arteries communicate by a distinct vessel, which passes from one to the other. By such vessels the remarkable anastomosis at the base of the brain, the circle of Willis, is formed. The anterior cerebral arteries passing upwards and forwards are united by a cross branch, the anterior communicating artery, and the carotid artery on each side is united to the posterior cerebral artery by a branch which passes from before backwards—namely, the posterior communicating artery. By this free communication of the arteries in front with those behind, and of those on the right with those on the left, the brain is protected against loss of blood, if any of the main channels of its supply should be stopped. The most common form of anastomosis is found in the limbs. Two principal channels convey blood to a limb, as, in the forearm, the radial and ulnar arteries. The branches of these arteries commu- nicate at various points, especially in the vicinity of the joints, and thus, if any impediment occurs in either, the other enlarges, conveys an increased quantity of blood, and even the obstructed trunk beyond the point of obstruction receives a supply by the anastomosing branches. Or the single main artery of a limb, the femoral, or the brachial, by its branches communicates with arteries which, originating from different sources, pass into another portion of the limb. Thus in the thigh, the circumflex branches of the profunda anastomose with branches which descend from the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator arteries, which are branches of the internal iliac. Hence an obstruction in the femoral, high up, or even in the external iliac, will not deprive the limb of its due supply of blood, for the arteries just named will convey blood to the branches of the femoral, which arise below. This anastomosis may compensate for an obstruction in the internal iliac near its origin, and by a reflux of blood from the femoral through the profunda arteries supply the lower part of that artery. In the treatment of wounded arteries the surgeon must always make allowance for the anastomoses in the neighbourhood of the wound. It rarely happens that a single ligature on the cardiac side of the wound is sufficient to guard against secondary hemorrhage; the anastomotic branches which arise from the main artery above the wound sup- plying the vessel or its subdivisions below, so that the blood finds