176 DIGESTION. [chap. xxiu. ing in numberless points, and at each point of junction a transparent clear nucleus is visible. It is elastic, spongy, loaded with fluid albumen, but destitute of vessels, and it seems perfectly distinct from that columnar struc- ture which appears to be afterwards converted into the enamel In a vertical section of these parts, the enamel-pulp is seen covered with columnar epithelium, the enamel matrix (fig. 153, a, c, b), on the surface towards the dentinal or tooth-pulp; while, on the op- posite surface, the blood-vessels of the membrane lining the alveolus are seen coming up to, and forming loops immediately under, the enamel-pulp, without penetrating it. It is further remarkable, that short tubes, filled with glandular epithelium, descend among these vessels from the enamel-pulp, and end by blind extremities. How these tubes, which are evidently glandular, can discharge their con- tents, it is difiicult to understand, seeing they appear to open into the substance of the enamel-pulp : but their presence and pi-ecise situation we have ascertained to be as we have described them in the molar teeth of the nine months human foetus. It is not impossible that the enamel-pulp may perform the me- chanical office of protecting the soft and growing tooth from pressure directed on the gum, and of providing a space in which develope- ment may advance without restraint. The next stage is that of ossification, and the earthy matter is first deposited in the homogeneous membrane forming the surface of the dentinal pulp. The most prominent portions of the crown are the first to harden; and the ossification proceeds inwards by the gi-adual conversion of the pulp into the dentine, or ivory. The nucleated particles of the pulp nearest the ossifying surface are found arranging themselves in series vertical to that surface; and it appears, that, in order to form these vertical series, they mul- tiply by transverse division, much as those of bone cartilage are found to do. The earthy matters are then deposited in the in- distinct cells surrounding the nuclei, so as to form the hard and dense walls of the dentinal tubes, as well as in the intercellular sub- stance, so as to form the intertubular tissue of the perfect tooth. The cells unite endwise, and their nuclei elongate and coalesce in a manner to constitute the cavities of the tubes, and so as often to retain indications of this mode of origin in their permanent form. In all these processes a striking similarity to those noticed in the ossification of ordinary bone is to be traced. In proportion as the ossification proceeds inwards, so as to occupy the substance of the dentinal pulp, the vessels and nerves wdiich had been deve- loped in that structure recede, and finally come to occupy the cavity