296 [chap, xxvir. THE BLOOD. probably in a great degree due to the dispropoi-tion between the red particles and the fibrine. Although the phenomenon of cujjping and buffing frequently occurs in that state which is called inflammatory, it is not so exclusively confined to it as to justify practitioners in regarding it, as is too often done, as a proof of the existence of inflam- mation, sufficient of itself to warrant or call for further depletory measures. III. The Physical Analysis of the Blood.—By physical analysis we find in the blood the following parts ; viz. the serum; the fibrine held in solution in the serum prior to coagulation; the red corpuscles, and the colourless corpuscles, both of which float in the Liquor Sanguinis. The serum is a straw-coloured fluid of Sp. Gr. 1025 to 1030. When heated to 165° it becomes nearly solid, proving that it holds in solution a very large quantity of albumen, as much as seven or eight parts per cent. In twelve ounces of serum there would, therefore, be nearly one ounce of albumen equal to the white of one egg. But this is not the only ingredient which we find dissolved in the serum. It is an alkaline fluid, and its alkalinity is chiefly due to the presence of free soda, and of carbonate of soda. Besides these it contains chloride of sodium, phosphate of lime and of magnesia, and probably lactate of soda. The serum also contains a small quantity of fatty matter in which can be detected the crystallisable as well as the oily portion. In health the proportion of this does not exceed half a part in 1000 parts, so that a pint of serum M'ill contain about five grains of fatty matter; but in some cases it exists in so large a proportion as to render the serum milky. This occurs not only in certain forms of disease, but likewise, according to Drs. Buchanan and E. D. Thom- son, very shortly after the ingestion of food of an oily or amylaceous nature. Whatever other elements may exist in the blood, as serving to furnish materials for the various secretions, are held in suspension or solution by the water of the serum. Thus, urea is sometimes found in it, and the recent observations of Bernard, referred to at p. 261, show that it constantly contains sugar ; when the liver acts imper- fectly, some of the elements of bile are found in it. It is as yet uncertain wdiether the existence of even minute quantities of some of these substances in the blood, such as urea and the biliary matters, is consistent with health. It is not * Med. Gaz. vol. xxxvi., p. 972.