441 VUAV. XXXI.] TRODUCTION OF VOCAL SOUNDS. Fi^. 214. sides and apex in front; in the latter, it becomes a simple slit, or nearly so, with parallel sides. In the human larynx, the thyro- arytenoid muscles, lying on the outside of each of the vocal chords, exercise a principal influence in determining their relative position, and in adapting them for vocalization. 3rd. If a tube be adapted to the membranous tongues, in such a manner that the air may play upon them through it, and may pass through another tube after it has acted upon them, an influence is exercised not only on the timbre of the sounds produced, but also upon the pitch, which varies with the length of either and of both. In the human organ of voice, the larynx and bronchi represent a tube prefixed to the membranous tongues and chordae vocales; and the cavity in front of the inferior ligaments of the larynx, a tube placed below the tongues.'^ The vocal sounds may be produced by blowing air from the trachea through the aperture of the glottis in a larynx removed from the dead body; and by adopting means to vary the tension and the relative position of the vocal chords, the phenomena of the voice may be very closely imitated. When air is thus blown through the glottis, the vocal chords being ap- proximated, clear and full tones are generated. They are produced most readily and certainly when the pos- terior part of the glottis, situated between the aryte- noid cartilages, is closed. A certain constriction of the glottis appears necessary, as, when it is too open, an in- distinct noise is merely pro- duced. The pitch of the note is determined by the tension of the vocal chords, that of both being equal; it is not in- fluenced by chanees in the tm . , O "1'^ Diagiiim to show parts concerned in vocalization, and Width of the anerture nf fVir> f'e character and shape of cavities above and below the j^xyi 1/1*1 ^J^ tiic vocal chords. * The reader is referred for the detail of MiUler's experiments to p. 988 et seqq. of Dr. Baly's Translation, vol. ii., and to MuUer's separate work, Ueber Compensation der phys. Ki-afte am menschlich. Organ,—Berlin, 1839 VOL. II. ^ ^