304 THE BLOOD. [chap. XXVII. Function of the Red Corpuscles.—It is clear that the red cor- puscles must perform some very important office in the life of the blood, because of their great numbers, their constancy, and the serious consequences to the general nutrition and the vital actions of the body, which ensue upon any considerable diminution in the quantity of them. But we have no definite knowledge on this sub- ject, and all that can be suggested is, as yet, of a speculative and hypothetical nature. Liebig adopted the highly ingenious notion that the red cor- puscles are carriers of oxygen, and that by their colouring matter they are peculiarly adapted for attracting that principle. The property of attracting oxygen is due to the iron, which forms six per cent, of the hematine contained in the red corpuscle. In venous blood, according to Liebig, the iron is in the state of carbonate of the protoxide of iron ; this, as the blood passes through the capillaries of the lungs, or becomes otherwise exposed to the action of the air, is by the absorption of oxygen converted into the hydrated peroxide of iron, the state in which that metal exists in arterial blood. And at the same time it gives off " for every volume of oxygen necessary for the change from protoxide to peroxide, four volumes of carbonic acid.*" As the arterial blood passes through the capillaries of the system, the peroxide of iron yields oxygen to certain constituents of the body, which is em- ployed in producing the change of matter, and in oxidising newly- formed substances in the blood, while in their return towards the heart, the red particles which had lost their oxygen "combine with carbonic acid, producing venous blood ; and when they reach the lungs an exchange takes place between this carbonic acid and the oxygen of the atmosphere." This doctrine of Liebig assigns the use of the colouring matter, or of the contents of the blood-corpuscle, rather than of the corpuscle itself; it is, indeed, highly reasonable to suppose that the hajmatine has an important connection with the attraction of oxygen into the system, or to speak more generally, with the changes which take place in the blood in respiration. The differ- ence of colour, being the prominent feature of distinction between arterial and venous blood is strongly indicative of this; and also the fact now demonstrated by Mr. Wharton Jones, that the blood of the invertebrata contains a certain degree of colour, or at any rate, even where no colour can be distinguished, according to Professor Graham's analysis, " a sensible quantity of iron, perhaps, as much as red corpuscles."