CHAP, xvx.] THE OLFACTORY PROCESS OR LOBE. 7 about ^ incli. We have hitherto failed in seeing any loop-like or projecting capillaries in injections of adult specimens. Care must be taken not to confound these loops in the olfactory region of the foetus with the loops of the undoubted true papillte, situated just within the nostrils, and which belong to touch. 0/the Nerves of the Nose.—These are the first pair, and branches of the fifth pair, besides motor filaments from the facial nerve to the external muscles. The first pair has long been considered as the proper nerve of smell, though not without dispute. That it has been rightly so regarded, however, is evident for many reasons. Its limitation to the upper and middle spongy bones, to the roof of the nasal fosste, and to the upper half of the septum, where the mucous membrane exhibits peculiar characters, and smell is princi- pally, if not exclusively, exercised ; its developement in the verte- brate class, proportionate, cateris paribus, to the acuteness of smell, being largest in animals of keenest scent ; the loss of smell, without other eifect, consequent on its division ; together with the perversion or loss of smell found in many authentic cases in connexion with disease of these nerves or their associated cerebral region : all these facts point irresistibly to this conclusion. 0/ the First Fair.—Under this head are to be described the olfactory process or lobe, and the olfactory filaments distributed to the nose. The olfactory process, or lole, (a, h, fig. 106) is a slender prism of fibrous and vesicular nervous matter, terminating in front in a bulb; and it is sunk in the fissure which bounds the supra-orbitar convolution on the under surface of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum (vol. i. p. 282). It is connected with the inferior surface of the brain by an external and internal root. The former is the longer, and may be traced in the nervous matter forming the floor of the fissure of Sylvius, and among the arteries of the locus perforatus, towards the lower and outer part of the corpus striatum, near the anterior com- missure of the cerebrum. In the dog and cat, where this process is much larger, the anterior commissure seems to have a more intimate relation to the olfactory processes. In the same animals the white matter of the process is continuous also with that of the largely developed hippocampus major. The internal root winds inwards, and is lost in the gray matter in front of the optic commissure, near the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum. In front of the point where the roots join, there is a process of gray matter constituting a third or gray root, and which is continued forwards as a portion of the olfactory process, as far as the bulb, where it expands.