CHAP. XXV.] THE INTESTINAL CANAL IN VERTEBRATA. 219 undergone a slight increase of developement. The division into large and small intestine is distinct throughout the class, and often an ileo-ccecal valve is present. In Ophidiu the small intestine presents numerous short convolutions at acute angles ; the large intestine ends in a cloaca. The intestinal canal is longest in the Chelonia, and next to them in the Crocodiles. In the Chelonia the line of distinc- tion between the large and small intestine is not so distinct as in the rest, and the muscular coat is remarkable for its great thickness. The tortoises have a short, wide, and cylindrical coecum, which is continuous without interruption with the large intestine : they have also a circular ileo-ccecal valve.* The great thickness of the muscular coat and the almost total obliteration of the canal during its con- tracted state constitute one of the most striking peculiarities of the intestine in Ciiclonian reptiles. In Batrachia the difference between large and small intestine is very distinct, being chiefly indicated by difference of calibre, and in frogs a circular ileo-ccecal valve; in the toad, however, there is a small coscum, without ileo-ccecal valve. In most of the Saurian reptiles there is a ccecum according to Meckel, and generally an ileo-ccecal valve : in the Crocodile the valve is present but the ccecum absent. In Birds, the intestinal canal, although longer than either in fishes or reptiles, yet retains considerable simplicity of form. It presents much variety in length and in the number of its convolutions, according to the food and habits of the bird. The duodenum, which immediately follows the gizzard, has always the form of a long fold, which contains the pancreas in it. The small intestine, more or less folded in different orders, terminates in a short and somewhat wide large intestine, at the commencement of which are two coeca, one on each side of the intestine. These coeca vary considerably in length from almost simple papillseform offsets, as in the Soland goose,| to processes three feet in length, as in the grouse. It sometimes occurs that there is only one coecum. The large intestine is short and straight, and is continued from the termination of the small intestine, without fold, to the cloaca. There is connected with the small intestine an appendage, the remains of the duct of communication between the yolk-bag and intestine in the chick. In some birds this appendage, which is said to be devoid of a muscular tunic, is as large or larger than the coeca. So much diversity exists in the form, length, and arrangement of the intestinal canal in the different orders of Mammalia, that it will be necessary briefly to state its peculiarities in each order. In Carnivora we find examples in which the intestinal canal is remarkably short in relation to the length of the body. The small intestine has but few and simple convolutions ; it opens into a short ccecum (convoluted, however, in the dogs) which scarcely differs in width from the rest of the large intestine. The proportion in the length of the intestinal canal to that of the body varies from, according to Meckel, five to one, as in the cats and dogs ; to eight to one, and nine to one, as in the hyena and bear ; or to fifteen to one as ascertained by Meckel in P/ioca vitalinu. The large intestine is shorter and wider than the small ; it is cylindrical in form, not sacculated as in man and many others. In Insectivora the intestinal canal is short, and without ccecum, the diameter being pretty uniform throughout. In Sorex, according^ to Meckel, its length is to * Meckel. t Sir E. Home's Comp. Anat. pi. civ. Q 2