588 DEVELOPMENT. [chap. xlt. project downwards, and ultimately enclose the anterior portion of the embryo. In the anterior dilated extremity of the embryo are developed three vesicles, from which the different parts of the brain are ultimately evolved. Formation of the Amnion. — The upper layer of the serous la- mina becomes raised in the form of a convex ridge, which ex- tends entirely round the circumference of the embryo. This ridge, consisting of course of two layers of serous lamina, rises up gradually, and the two portions from opposite sides approxi- mate above the dorsal surface of the embryo. The parts of the fold corresponding to the anterior and posterior extremities of the embryo grow faster than other portions, and soon two con- siderable reduplications are formed. These are called the cephalic and caudal involucra. The embryo is gradually enclosed by these two layers, which meet over its dorsal surface, and at last coalesce. Thus is formed the amnion; and the interval between the inner layer and the erabrj'^o is the amniotic cavity, which contains a fluid, the liquor amnii. The two layers, after some time, become united into one, except at the points where they are separated by the allantois and umbilical vesicle, forming the single amniotic mem- brane, which lies within the chorion. The outer layer, however, is separated from the inner surface of the chorion by a quantity of viscid albuminous matter which is subsequently absorbed. The mode of formation of the amnion in mammalian ova is therefore precisely similar to that of the chick, according to Fig. 280. Fin. 279. Plans sliowinK manner of formation of amnion, allantois, and umbilical vesicle, a. Cliorion witli villi, most abundant in that part beneath which the allantois is seen in figure 1/80: this portion ultimately becomes the placenta, b. Space between the two layers of the amnion, r Amniotic cavity. 1- °'^^^'^°!^ of intestine, showing its connexion wiUi the nmbUical vesMcle. e. UmbiliaU vesicle. /. Situation ot heart and vessels, g. AUantols.