CHAP. XX.] THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 127 nausea, and even vomiting. Nausea is a feeling, accompanied by a particular condition of the muscular coat of the oesophagus and stomach, preparatory to vomiting, and may be produced by a certain degree or kind of stimulation of any part of the mucous membrane from the fauces to the stomach. The vagus, as well as the glosso-pharyngeal, is the instrument of this sensation ; for the latter nerve has not sufficiently extensive connexions to justify the supposition that it is the sole agent. And this may be cited as a most striking instance of the sensitive endowment of the vagus. The following conclusions may be adopted respecting this nerve and its branches. 1. That the vagus nerve contains filaments both of sensation and motion. 2. That its pharyngeal branches are motor. 3. That its superior laryngeal branch is the sensitive nerve of the larynx, containing a few motor filaments to the crico-thyroid. 4. That the inferior laryngeal is the principal motor nerve of the larynx. 5. That the cardiac branches exert a slight influence on the move- ments of the heart. 6. That its pulmonary branches contain both motor and sensitive filaments, and exercise an important influence upon the respiratory acts, for they cannot be destroyed without retarding materially the respirations, impeding the passage of the blood through the lungs, and causing oedema of these organs. 7. That its oesophageal branches are the channel through which the muscles of that tube are excited, through the medulla oblon- gata, to contract. 8. That the gastric branches influence the movements of the stomach, and probably in some degree the secretions and the sensi- bility of its mucous membrane; but that their integrity is by no means essential to the continuance of the secretion, or to complete chymification. Of the Spinal Accessory Nerm.—The term spinal is applied to this nerve because of its extensive connexion with the upper part of the spinal cord. It escapes from the cranium along with the vagus through a common opening in the dura mater ; but its roots are im- planted in the side of the medulla oblongata, and of the cervical region of the cord as low as to the level of the fifth or sixth cervical nerve. On examining the side of the upper part of the spinal cord, the fascicles of origin of this nerve are seen emerging from it, in the . interval between the ligamentum denticulatum and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The lowest fascicles are those nearest to the