[chap. xvii. INNERVATION. 58 tion as regards the body—our several organs are conceived as ex- isting in a particular relative position, altogether independently of vision—and vision accords entirely, and at once, with these senses in the determination of locality, without the necessity of an educa- tion of the sense, such as a reversed impression on the mind through the eye would require. Were the eye and the whole body fixed, we should still have a knowledge of the relative position of visible objects, and of course of the direction in which each point of their surface was placed, as regards the organ of sense ; and as rays coming from objects in the same direction as regards the body, would then always fall on the same part of the retina, we might conclude that each part of that membrane had the power of conveying the notion of position in one direction only as regards the body. But the eye being a very moveable organ, we are enabled to make the image of a stationary object travel successively over a large tract of the retina without the object appearing to move; since we are conscious, through the muscular sense, of the motion in our own eye. The visual idea of direction in regard to the body, therefore, does not depend on the image falling on a particular point of the retina, but in a great measure on the muscular sense, in conjunction with that quality of the ex- citability of the retina already spoken of. It is proper also to mention that the limits of the field of vision, formed by certain parts of the face, are a standard to which the mind refers in estimating the position of visible objects. The out- line of the field remains the same, through all movements of the eye. The motions of the head or body can alone bring new objects into the field ; and the muscular sense thus still further contributes to enhance the usefulness of the sense of vision. Visual percej)tion of Shape and Size. — If an object form a large image on the retina, and of a square figure, we conceive it at once to be large and square ; and of this no other explanation can be given than that the visual points making up the surface of the retina have, as regards space, a relation to one another, of which the mind is intuitively cognizant in framing its ideas from visual im- pressions. But the size of an image, relatively to the whole retina, will vary with the distance of the object; and the conception of its real dimensions would be erroneous, were it not that the impression were corrected by the muscular sense engaged in the adjustment of the eye to distance, and by the lessons of experience. When a person, blind by cataract from infancy, is couched, he concludes that the diversified details of the scene presented to him are at an