485 MATRIX. CHAP. XXXIV.] i animals, it is also conspicuous. In the ox, the division into lobes I extends only to the pyrami ds. ' Parenchyma.—The parenchyma of the kidney consists of two distinct portions; the one cortical, about half an inch in thickness, forming the -n-hole convex surface of the organ, of a dark red coloui', and to the unaided eye of a granular appearance, and ! exhibiting numerous red spots (Malpighian bodies) abundantly scattered through it. The medullary portion is embraced in i this; it is pale and smooth, arranged so as to form several pyra- mids, varying in number from eight to fifteen; their bases are placed towards the cortex, fi'om which may be traced a number of nearly straight lines, which converge towards the summit of the pyramid to which they belong. In this part of the kidney there are no Malpighian tufts, and even to the unaided eye, it ap- pears to be composed of a number of straight converging lines or . tubes. These pyramids or cones end by free summits which project on the hilum into the pelvis of the kidney, the mucous membrane lining this cavity being continuous at the summit of the cone (or mamilla) with the tubes. The mucous membrane of the pelvis, however, forms a sort of fossa, or saucer-shaped cavity, around each mamilla, or termination of the pyramid. These calyces receive the urine escaping from the open orifices of the tubes on the sum- mit of the cones, and convey it toward the pelvis; they become enormously increased in dimensions if there be any obstruction to the passage of the urine from the ureter or bladder. Matrix.—With reference to the presence of a fibro-cellular matrix in the kidney, which serves as a support for the vessels and tubes, there has been much diflFerence of opinion. It was originally described by Goodsir, and has since been noticed by several observers. The matrix appears to us to be composed of a firm transparent and granular substance, in which we have seen small granular cells; but have not been able to ascertain their precise nature. The fibrous appearance seen in thin sections we believe, to be due rather to the crumpled state of the walls of the capillaries and uriniferous tubes, than to the existence of ordinary fibrous tissue in the matrix itself. The intervals between the contiguous tubes and capillaries are greater in the pyramids than in the cortical portion of the organ, and consequently the matrix is more distinct in this situation ; \ut