DIGESTION. 208 [chap. XXIV. matters, and they became softened by admixture with the fluids of the stomach and appeared partially dissolved. Boiled starch, in Tiedemann and Gmelin's experiments, underwent solution, and then did not exhibit its characteristic blue colour with iodine. In a dog, killed five hours after a meal of boiled starch, the contents of the stomach underwent no change of colour with iodine, but appeared charged with sugar and with a kind of gum of starch (dextrine). In another dog, similarly fed, and killed three hours afterwards, the starch which was dissolved did not react in the usual manner with iodine, but some portions not yet dissolved did exhibit the characteristic reactions. It would seem that imme- diately the starch becomes dissolved by the gastric fluid it loses its characteristic property of forming the blue iodide of starch.* In the artificial digestion of starch, with the mucous membrane of the human stomach, we have not succeeded in producing any change in the starch: it still evinced its usual reaction with the iodine test. We have, however, found that starch digested for some time in this way evolved a peculiar sour smell like that of cheese. Bouchardat and Sandras report, respecting the influence of stomach-digestion upon starch and upon amylaceous elements, dif- ferently from Tiedemann and Gmelin. They state that they have been unable to obtain any evidence of the conversion of starch into sugar ; that neither by fermentation, nor by the polarizing appa- ratus of M. Biot, have they succeeded in procuring any indication of the existence of sugar in the digested substances ; and they were equally unsuccessful in detecting the formation of dextrine. Lactic acid, however, appeared to them to be formed in much larger quan- tity after a meal of starch than after one of fibrine or of gluten. These observers likewise state as the result of their experiments, that in the human subject and in the carnivora feculent substances are digested with extreme slowness, and not at all unless the integument of the starch grain have been ruptured by boiling. Fatty or oily substances, as suet, fat, oil, butter, or wax, undergo no change in the stomach, according to Bouchardat and Sandras, after the lapse of some hours, and may be found in that organ un- changed in the midst of other matters upon which the stomach exercises a solvent action. This we have observed in our own experiments; and on perusmg the MS. notes of the results of various experiments made tliirty * Tiedemann and Gmelin, Rccheiclies sur la Digestion, par Jom-dain, t. i. p. 340.