86 INNERVATION. [chap, xviii. sends some filaments into the labyrinth to the blood vessels, and to the muscular structure of that portion of the ear. At the bottom of the meatus, the portio mollis divides into two branches, one to the vestibule and semicircular canals, the other to the cochlea. The vestibular nerve divides into three branches:—the largest is uppermost, and penetrates the depression which is immediately be- hind the orifice of the aqueduct of Fallopius to be distributed to the utriculus, and to the ampullae of the superior vertical and the horizontal semicircular canal. The second branch of the vestibular nerve is distributed to the sacculus, and the third to the jwsterior vertical semicircular canal. The cochlear nerve penetrates the funnel-shaped depression at the bottom of the auditory canal, and proceeds from it through the numerous foramina, by which its wall is pierced, in a spiral manner, to the lamina spiralis of the cochlea. The mode of distribution of these nerves Ijas been already de- scribed. The labyrinth receives nerves from no other source but the portio mollis, unless we suppose the portio intermedia to consist of fila- ments from the facial which accompany the ramifications of that nerve into that part of the ear. That the portio mollis is the nerve of hearing is abundantly proved by the following arguments:—1. The distribution of the nerve to the internal ear, to which no other nerve of any import- ance is distributed. 2. Its softness of texture and cerebriform character distinguish it from ordinary nerves of sensation or mo- tion. 3. Diseased states of it or of parts immediately near to its origin affect the sense of hearing, whilst a paralytic state of the portio dura or of the fifth does not affect the sense. 0/ the Nervous Apparatus accessor^/ to the Organ of Hearing. —Besides the auditory nerve there are others which influence the auditory apparatus. These are branches of the portio dura, branches of the nerve of Jacobson, from the glossoj)haryngeal, and from the otic ganglion. These nerves present a striking analogy with those which are distributed to the eye. The tympanum receives branches from the facial, and glossopha- ryngeal, and probably from the sympathetic. The facial in its passage through the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives off the chorda tympani, which, however, seems to have no physiolo- gical connexion with the tympanum or its contents. The stapedius