502 URINE. [chap. XXXIV. Creatine (Cg Hg N3 O4) occurs in very small quantity in the urine. It is a colourless crystalline body, with a strong i^ungent taste, soluble in cold and very soluble in boiling water; it is almost insoluble in alcohol. Boiled with baryta water, it becomes changed into urea and sarcosine; and it is probable that a somewhat similar decomposition ensues within the organism, and that of the quantity of creatine formed in the muscular fibre a large proportion is eliminated from the system in the form of urea, and partly perhaps as car- bonic acid and ammonia. Creatine was obtained in the beautiful investigation of Liebig from the flesh of various animals ; but the proportion in which it exists is so small, that it can only be extracted with great care, and by operating upon large quantities. It occurs most abundantly in the flesh of fowls, and in the heart of the ox. Creatinine (0, H7 0,) is also met with in the urine, and its presence in this fluid was discovered by Liebig, to whom we are indebted for all that is known in reference to this body. Creatinine crystalhses in colourless crystals. It possesses a hot burning taste, compared to caustic ammonia. It is soluble in water, and, unlike creatine, is freely dissolved by spirit. It is found with the last-mentioned body in the juice of muscular fibre. Creatinine may be formed by the action of hydrochloric acid upon creatine, a change which renders it probable that it is also formed from the last named body in the organism. In urine, creatinine exists in larger quantity than creatine; while in muscular fibre the latter is found to exceed the former in amount. Extractive Matters.—Under this very unsatisfactory term are included cer- tain substances met with in the urine, blood, and other animal fluids, which are not easily isolated, whose properties are with great difiiculty determined, which do not crystalhze, are not volatile without decomposition, and cannot be obtained in a pure form. Of late years, however, several substances have been separated from the extractive matters which were formerly included under that term. Of these, albuminate of soda, creatine, and creatinine may be referred to as examples. These extractive matters no doubt play a most important part in vital chemistry, and probably represent a stage intermediate between the nutritive pabulum and the tissues formed from it, or between the latter in process of disintegration and the compounds we have been con- sidering, such as urea, lithic acid, etc., but in the present state of our know- ledge, little beyond mere speculation can be advanced. Our friend, Dr. G. 0. Rees, found that, in cases of albuminuria connected with kidney disease, large quantities of the extractive matters of the blood passed off" in the urine as well as albumen. The test which Dr. Eees employed for detecting the presence of the blood-extraction was the tincture of galls.* Ammoniacal Salts.—Ammonia exists in very small quantity, if indeed it be present in healthy urine, but in disease a considerable proportion may occur. It has been found as hydrochlorate, lactate, bijjhosphate, ammonio- magnesian or triple phosphate, and in the form of phosphate of ammonia and soda. Its presence usually depends upon the decomposition of some of the nitrogenous constituents of the urine, as previously indicated. Fixed Salts.—By the careful incineration of urine we obtain the fixed salts, and we find that, of the saline residue, part is soluble and part insoluble in * Lettsomian Lectures. London Medical Gazette, vol. xlviii. 185L