CHAP. XVI.] THE OLFACTORY FFLAMENTS. elementary fibrillse, are nucleated, and finely granular in texture, and are invested with a sheath of homogeneous membrane, much resembling the sarcolemma, or, more strictly, that neurilemma which we figured from the nerves of insects in the former volume, p. 226. These facts we have repeatedly ascertained, and they appear to be of great importance to the general question of the function of the several ultimate elements of the nervous structure, especially when vicAved in connexion with what will be said on the anatomy of the retina. We are aware ^"'V,'- io7- that some anatomists deny the ex- istence of the white substance of Schwann as a natural element of the nerve-fibre in any case, pretend- ing that it is formed by artificial modes of preparation; we hold it to be a true structure ; but, how- ever that may be, these nerves never exhibit it, however prepared. They rather correspond with the gelatinous fibres. Now there is no kind of doubt that they are a di- rect continuation from the vesicular matter of the olfactory bulb. The arrangement of the capillaries in well-injected specimens is a convincing proof of this, as these vessels gradually become elongated on the nerve assuming a fibrous character as it quits the surface of the bulb; and further, no tubular fibres can ever be discovered in the pulp often left upon the orifices of the cribriform plate after detachment of the bulb. It must be remembered, that a few tubular fibres from the nasal nerve of the fifth here and there accompany the true olfactory filaments, but these only serve to make the difference more evident by contrast. Although these nucleated olfactory filaments lie in great abun- dance under the mucous membrane of the olfactory region, we have been quite foiled in our attempts to trace their ultimate dis- tribution in the membrane, and the diflficulty is attributable to their want of the characteristic white substance. Their elongated nuclei render the larger branches unmistakeable ; but if these become re- solved at last into fibrous elements, the nuclei cease to be distinct from those of the numerous nucleated tissues which they traverse. In this respect they correspond, in all probability, with the nerves of some of the papillae of the tongue (see vol. i. pp. 436-7) ; and, considering the similarity between the two senses, an argument may Olfactory filaments of the Dog :—a. In water. b. In acetic acid.—Blagnified 250 diameters.