DIGESTION. 202 [chap. XXIV. tinned sufficiently long, it is dissolved. The albumen is likewise equally softened. The early changes which take place in a cubic piece of solid white of egg, macerated in the digestive fluid, are very characteristic. Its edges become of a pearly hue, semi-trans- parent, almost fluid, breaking down under the slightest touch of the finger; and, after longer digestion, the solid matters are com- pletely dissolved. The solvent power of a digestive fluid made with the mucous membrane of the stomach is strikingly displayed if the results of the digestion of meat and albumen with it be compared with those obtained by digestmg pieces of the same substances either with simply acidulated water,—muriatic, acetic, or phosphoric acids, being used,—or with an infusion of mucous membrane without acid. Simple acidulated fluids produce little or no change in meat and albumen in the course of twelve or twenty-four hours; and such change as is produced presents a marked contrast to that caused by the infusion of mucous membrane with acid. No acid, however, appears to cause more change than the phosphoric. When the infusion of mucous membrane is used without acid, rapid putrescence is produced. A similar effect results, although with less intensity, from the use of too little acid ; and, if alkali be added, the putrefaction becomes still more rapid and intense. In these experiments, it is of great importance to i)ay close atten- tion to the temperature. It should be within the range of from 90" to ] 10°, the higher temperature increasing the energy of the diges- tive action. If it reach the point at which albumen is coagulated, all solvent change ceases, and the meat or albumen becomes har- dened. In a low temperature, likewise, there is no change ; the digestive fluid under such circumstances serving merely to prevent decomposition. The antiseptic power of an acid infusion of gastric mucous mem- brane is one of its most remarkable properties; and in this respect it resembles the gastric fluid itself, which, according to all observers, is remarkably antiseptic, being capable of checking the further pro- gress of putrefaction in meat in which that process had already begun. This power seems principally due to the acid, the neu- tralization of which destroys it; and, if an infusion of mucous mem- brane to which enough acid had not been added become putrescent, its further decomposition may be checked by the addition of more acid. We have kept the artificial digestive fluid for many months in a bottle with a common cork without its undergoing any change.