[chap. XXVll. THE BLOOD. 294 is also favoured by spreading out the blood on a flat surface; and, within certain limits, by an increase in the fluid parts of the blood. On the other hand coagulation is retarded by the addition of alkalies, and some of their salts, as sulphate of soda, nitrate of soda, carbonate of soda, chloride of sodium, also carbonate of potass, nitrate of potass, and nitrate of lime. A strong solution of any of these salts, added to fresh drawn blood, will delay or stop its coagulation according to the strength and quantity of tlie solution. Authors afiirm that the blood will not coagulate in the bodies of animals killed by blows on the epigastrium, or after having been long hunted, or by electricity or lightning. It will not coagulate after asphyxia by carbonic acid, as in the following cases, recorded by Mr. Gulliver: — A man, setat. thirty-five, and three children, were suffocated in a burning house, their bodies being untouched by the fire; in all of them the blood was fluid forty-eight hours after death in the heart and great vessels, and did not coagulate after its removal out of the body. The coagulation of the blood appears to be retarded by its con- tact with living surfaces. Thackralfs experiments showed that blood confined between two ligatures in living vessels, remained fluid for a considerable time, from five to sixty minutes; F. Simon affirms that it will retain its fluidity for three hours; and experi- ments of the same kind by Hewson, lead to the conclusion that the coagulation is retarded under similar circumstances. Fluids with- drawn from serous cavities, as in ascites or hydrocele, often exhibit a coagulum of considerable size, which does not form till some minutes after their removal, showing that the fibrine must have been prevented from coagulating so long as it remained in the living cavity. The addition of bile retards or prevents coagulation, probably by the mechanical obstacle which it affords to the cohesion of the par- ticles of fibrine. According to John Hunter the addition of a solu- tion of opium to the blood retards its coagulation. It is needless to waste time in inquiring into the cause of coagu- lation. That the phenomenon belongs only to one of the constituents of the blood is proved, unequivocally, by the fact that if that ma- terial, the fibrine, be removed by whipping blood with a bunch of twigs, as it flows from a vein, coagulation will not take place in the fluid which remains. The fibrine has accumulated in a coagulated state round the twigs, and the fluid received into the vessel consists