CHAP. XXIII.] DEGLUTITION. The soft palate contains a thick layer of glands under its mucous membrane, in front of its muscles; and great numbers are situated about the upper orifice of the larynx and on the general surface of the pharynx. The tonsils are large and somewhat peculiar glands projecting between the arches of the palate. They open by several distinct orifices, which lead into cells, around which the secretory structure is arranged. They are very vascular organs, and evidently placed where they are to lubricate the food in its passage from the mouth. It is not, however, known with accuracy what is the nature or composition of the secretion they furnish ; but it is, pro- bably, little besides simple mucus. That it is not identical with the saliva may be inferred from the difference in structure of the glands, and from the tonsils being liable to inflammation and sup- puration, as well as to strumous enlargement, while the salivary glands are seldom or never affected in the same way. The food, when sufficiently comminuted and mingled with saliva in the mouth, and collected in the hollow of the tongue, is thrown into the alimentary pharynx by the tongue being pressed upwards against the roof of the mouth,—this movement beginning at the tip, and ending near the base. The division of the pharynx which is to receive it is dilated as the food enters, by the advance and elevation of the larynx, and by the yielding of its sides and posterior wall, while the communication with the respiratory compartment above is effectually closed by the coming together of the posterior pillars of the fauces, by the contraction of the palato-pharyngeal and upper constrictor muscles. The base of the tongue is now forced backwards and upwards, so that the pellet is pressed between it and the soft palate with its posterior pillars now in contact, and is thereby carried downwards and backwards into that portion of the cavity which lies behind the larynx. It crosses over the glottis without entering it, because while the larynx is advanced the base of the tongue presses back the epiglottis, and so covers the orifice ; this movement of the epiglottis being assisted by the small aryteno- epiglottidean muscular fibres, and by the very course of the food itself; but it is abundantly proved, that even without an epiglottis the glottis would for the most part be so closed by sudden spasm of its constrictors, as to prevent any alimentary matters from falling into the larynx. In the act of vomiting, where the matters pass in the contrary direction, it is probable that the glottis is partly pro- tected by the backward position of the tongue and epiglottis, and partly by this conservative contraction of the arytenoid muscles in answer to the mechanical stimulus of the food on the mucous mem-