CHAP. XLII.J OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. OJV meet, while the intermaxillary bones are united in the centre, and form a prominent tongue of bone, on either side of which is a deep fissure between the intermaxillary and corresponding maxillary bones of each side—thus is produced the deformity of double hare- lip. The cleft of the palate in these cases usually remains open, and in this way the malformation is increased. The fissure of the lip seems to arise from the alteration of the deeper parts; for as such a fissure exists at no period of embryonic life in the soft parts, it cannot, like the bony fissure above described, be dependent upon an arrest of development. The first visceral arch gives rise to the superior maxillary appa- ratus, consisting of the intermaxillary bones, the vomer, the maxillary and palate bones, and tlie pterygoid plates of the sphenoid, the lower jaw, and the malleus and incu^. The second visceral arch gives origin to the hyoid bone, the styloid process, and its ligaments, and the stapes of the ear. In animals a great part of this hyoid apparatus becomes ossified. From the thij^d visceral arch arise the posterior cornu and body of the hyoid bone. In the embryo of mammalian animals, the fourth arch is very indistinct. Development of the Nervous System.—Reichert has shown that, in their earliest condition, the central organs of the nervous sys- tem are composed of two laminae united in the middle line, so as to form a central groove. This groove soon becomes converted into a canal, except in the position corresponding to the medulla oblongata. In front of this, certain vesicles appear, from which the several parts of the brain are subsequently developed. These vesicles have been named Prosencephalon, Deutencephalon, Mesencephalon, and Epencephalon, by Professor Owen. Of these vesicles, the latter, which corresponds to the cerebellum, is at this early period the largest of the four. The mesencephalon, or vesicle of the corpora quadrigemina, corresponds to the large optic lobes in fishes, reptiles, and birds, which in these classes are only two in number (corpora bigeminal, and in the adult human brain is represented by the small corpora quadrigemina (anteriorly nates, posteriorly testes). In front of this vesicle is a small one, Avhich is formed before any of the others, and for some time is the most anterior of all. This is the vesicle of the third ventricle, and con- tains the optic thalami. These points are all well seen in the fish's brain. The prosencephalon, from which the cerebral vesicles are formed.