^ ^0 DIGESTION. [chap. xxii. the animals, or in the nature of their food ; and also according to the complexity of organization exhibited by them. In Mammalia, modifications occur in the masticatory process ; the vegetable feeder requiring a more complicated dental apparatus ; the carnivora being pro- vided with teeth of a simpler construction, but more fitted for seizing and lace- rating the prey. In others again, the teeth are adapted to feed on insects, the Insectivora ; in others, the Rodentia, certain teeth are constructed for gnawing dry and resisting substances ; whilst in some of the whales, there are no teeth at all strictly speaking, but only an apparatus which will allow of retaining the finer kinds of food in their passage into the mouth of the animal. The other sub-pro- cesses of digestion are carried on very much upon the same plan as in the human subject, with only such variations as the habits of life of the animals may render necessary. Thus, in a large tribe of Mammals, the Huminantia, the food is mace- rated in a complex stomach, prior to, as well as after, it has been subjected to a more complete mastication than is employed in any other animals. In these, as well as in all vegetable feeders, the intestinal canal is very long and capacious, and the caecum of great size. In the Carnivora the stomach is simple, and the intes- tines short and narrow. In Birds there are no teeth ; and mastication, properly so called, is efi^ected in the stomach, a portion of which (the gizzard)acquires a great increase of muscular power, and is lined by a dense cuticle, and thus becomes a powerful organ for triturating the food, the bird swallowing pieces of flint or other hard substances to aid the me- chanical reduction. Insalivation is but slightly developed, excepting in the wood- pecker, where very large salivary glands pour out a considerable quantity of saliva to aid the bird in picking the dry bark and wood of trees. In some birds, how- ever, a dilated portion of the oesophagus (the crop) gives lodgment to the food for a time, and pours out from its mucous membrane a fluid which probably performs an office similar to that of the saliva, and which at least must serve to moisten the food before it passes further along the digestive tube. Chymification and chylifi- cation are essentially the same as in Mammals; and there are likewise similar differences as regards the length and development of the intestinal tube in car- nivorous and herbivorous birds. In Reptiles the digestive process is, on the whole, simpler than in the preceding classes ; but there are the same sub-processes, the alimentary canal being of a simple construction. The dental apparatus varies ac- cording to the mode of life of the reptile, (the fangs of serpents having evident reference to the predatory habits of that class of reptiles,) excepting so far as the beak may be regarded as a substitute ; and in some, as the chelonia, it is entirely absent. In Fishes there are well developed teeth of various forms, and often very numerous, with a simple stomach and intestine, but no salivary apparatus. In the higher Invertebrata the digestive process is carried on upon the same plan as in the vertebrata. In the Cephalopods, there are powerful instruments of pre- hension in the arms or tentacles which surround the animal's mouth and head. These animals enjoy a certain power of mastication by teeth, and some of them have a gizz rd. All the Mollusca have a large liver; but other glandular organs connected with the intestinal canal, and more or less subservient to digestion, namely, the pancreas and spleen, are absent. The stomach and intestinal tube arc very much as in the vertebrata. The articulata have also a digestive system like that in the vertebrate classes, but the liver is small, and developed in the rudi- mentary form of coecal tubes opening into the intestine.