CHAP. XX.] THE VAGUS NERVE. 123 the whole tube to the cardia, where they became slow and vermi- cular ; the oesophagus being shortened and diminished in calibre at each application of the irritant. Distinct palsy of the oesophagus may be produced by section of the vagus in the neck. The following effects followed this experi- ment by Dr. Eeid on a rabbit, which had been kept fasting for sixteen hours previous to the experiment. The animal eat a quantity of parsley, amid considerable dyspnoea and cough, with many efforts to vomit. It died in five hours. The oesophagus was found full of parsley throughout its entire extent down to.the stomach, which was also filled, although not distended ; and a good deal of the parsley had passed into the trachea and bronchial tubes, and even into the minute air-cells of the lungs. The appearances in this experiment indicated complete paralysis of the oesophagus. This tube was filled by the propulsive power of the pharynx, which sent on morsel after morsel, until the whole stomach and gullet were filled, the latter being perfectly passive: and after these parts were occupied, and thus resisted the further passage of the parsley, it found its way more readily into the larynx and trachea. It may be inferred from this and similar experiments that some- thing more than an irritable condition of the muscular coat of the oesophagus is requisite in order to insure its contraction when dis- tended by* food. The muscular fibres were quite uninjured, and, therefore, ought to have acted, if the stimulus of distension were alone sufficient to excite their contraction. The true cause of their inaction was the destruction of the nervous circle through which the sensitive nerves of the oesophagus could excite its motor nerves. This portion of the act of deglutition, therefore, is like that in the pharynx, a physical action, brought about by the impression of the food upon the sentient nerves of the oesophagus, which propagate their change to the cen- tre where the motor fibres become excited. It cannot be said, how- ever, that the mind is unconscious of this part of the act of degluti- tion, although it may be reasonably admitted that it has no necessary share in it. The results of section of the cardiac nerves show that, these nerves exert only a partial influence upon the heart: the de- struction of them affects the actions of that organ only to a limited degree, inasmuch as the heart receives nerves from the sympathetic as well as from the vagus. Numerous experiments demonstrate most unequivocally that this