82 INNERVATION. [chap. xvm. Fig. 1V2. ably smaller, so that the peri- lymph intervenes in some quan- tity, except where the nerves pass- ing to it confine it in close con- tact with the osseous wall. Its vestibular portion consists of two sacs, viz.: a principal one of trans- versely oval figure and compressed laterally, called the utriculus or common sinus, occupying the upper and back part of the cavity, in contact with the fovea semi-ellip- tica, and beneath this a smaller and more globular one, the sac- culus, lying in the fovea hemi- spherica, near the orifice of the Membranous labj-rinth of the left side, with its Vestibular SCala of the COchlca, nerves and otoliths:—4«. Superior semicircular canal, with the ampulla and its nerve at one end, and the other end joined by p, the jjosterior canal, to form the tubiilits communis, i. Inferior, or horizontal canal, with the ampulla and its nerve at one end, and the other entering the utriculus sepa- rately. <\ I'owdery otolith seen through the trans- lucent wall of the common sinus, or utriculus, with the nerves distributed to it. «. Powderv otolith of the sacculus seen with its nerve, in a similar way- n. Cochlear di\ ision of the auditory nerve cut off where it enters the cochlea, rf. I'ortio dura of the seventh pair leaving the auditory nerve, or portio mollis, to enter the a(|ueduct of Fallopius. Mag- iiificd. From lireschet. and probably communicating with the utriculus. The membranous semicircular canals have the same names, shape, and arrangement as the osseous canals which enclose them, but are only a third of the diameter of the latter. As the osseous canals open into the vestibule, so the membranous ones open at both ends into the utriculus—there being, however, a constricted neck between this sac and the ampullated extremity of each canal. The auditory nerve sends branches to the utriculus, to the sacculus, and to the am- pulla of each membranous canal. These nerves enter the vestibule by the minute apertures before described, and tie down, as it were, both the utriculus and sacculus to the osseous wall at those points, the membrane being much thicker and more rigid where the nerves join it. The branches to the ampullae of the superior vertical and the horizontal semicircular canals enter the vestibule with the utricular nerve, and then cross to their destinations, while that to the ampulla of the posterior vertical canal traverses the posterior wall of the cavity and opens directly into the ampulla. The "Avail of the membranous labyrinth is translucent, flexible, and tough. When withdrawn fi-om its bed and examined, it appears to present three coats, an outer, middle, and internal. The outer is loose, easily detached, somewhat flocculent, and contains more or