CHAP, xviii.] USE OF THE TYMPANUM. 95 brana tympani is unfavourable generally to the propagation of sounds, especially of those of a low pitch. By rendering the mem- brana tympani tense in one's own person, the correctness of this statement may be readily ascertained. In blowing the nose forcibly air is forced into the tympanum, and its membrane is rendered con- vex and tense, and every one must have experienced the temporary deafness which remains after such an effort. The tympanic mem- brane may also be rendered tense by forced inspiration, the nose and mouth being kept shut. Under these circumstances the tympanic cavity is exhausted, and the membrane rendered tense by the pres- sure of the external air. In descending in the diving bell, the membrane of the tympanum is rendered painfully tense by the increased pressure of the air, and the want of counter pressure from within. This tension may be so great as even to cause rupture of the tympanic membrane in some cases, but it may be obviated by acts of swallowing, during which the external air is driven into the tympana along the Eustachian tubes. Dui-ing the tense state of the membrane hearing is im- paired; M. Colladon found that the voices of his companions and of himself were not so distinctly heard. Dr. Wollaston performed many experiments upon the effects of tension of the membrana tympani, and he found that deafness to grave notes was always induced, which, as most ordinary sounds are of a low pitch, is tantamount to a general deafness. Shrill sounds, however, are best heard when the tympanic membrane is tense. Miiller remarks, and we have frequently made the same ob- servation, that the dull rumbling sound of carriages passing over a bridge, or of the firing of cannon, or of the beating of drums at a distance, ceases to be heard immediately on the membrana tympani becoming tense ; while the treading of horses upon stone pavement, the more shrill creaking of carriages, and the rattling of paper may be distinctly heard. The object of the Eustachian tube is chiefly to allow the free in- gress of air into the tympanic cavity in order to provide for the due vibration of the membrana tympani and of the chain of bones. It also, by permitting a free egress of air, renders the tympanum a non-reciprocating cavity, and therefore obviates the production of echoes in it, which would materially interfere with perfect hearing. The importance of the Eustachian tube to the iategrity of hearing is well known to all practical men by the deafness which always accompanies chronic or acute disease of the tonsils, or occlusion of the canal of that tube from any other cause.