INNERVATION. 64 [chap, xvixr. mcnt in the various classes of animals, than in the ear. We see it existing as a simple sac in the ccphalopod and gasteropod mollusks, and in Crustacea. In the cuttle-fish, it consists of a small sac filled with fluid, lodged in a chamber excavated in the cranial cartilage.* The chamber is closed everywhere except at the entrance of the auditory nerve, which passes in to expand upon the sac. From its inner surface there project several obtuse processes, of a soft, elastic nature, which support the sac. The sac contains a calcareous body or otolithe. Even at this early stage of developement the organ is double, and the two cavities are separated from each other by a very tliin septum. It is obvious that these cavities are strictly analogous to the vestibule in the higher classes. In Gasteropoda, the organ consists of a sac, to which the nerve is distributed, and which contains fluid and several small otolithes, which, according to Siebold, exhibit remarkable movements. In Crustacea, the organ still exists as a simple sac. This, as Dr. Arthur Farre has shown, is situate, in the lobster, in the base or first joint of the lesser antenna. Its place is indicated by a tough membrane which covers an oval aperture in the upper surface of this joint; the membrane being a continuation of the same struc- ture which forms the shell, but in which the earthy matter is wanting. Towards the inner and anterior margin of this membrane, there is a small round aperture, through which a bristle may be passed. " On removing this oval membrane toge- ther with a portion of the surrounding shell, the internal organ is brought into nhcw, completely imbedded in the soft integument and muscular structure of the antenna." It consists of a sac, in shape like an auricle, and of a horny structure, like soft quill, suspended in the centre of the joint, free on all sides, and having only a single attachment near the aperture in the oval membrane already described; it nearly fills the cavity of the joint. The sac contains particles of siliceous sand, which find their way into it through the aperture already described, and probably fulfil the office of the otolithes which exist in other classes of animals. Numerous very remarkable ciliated processes are attached to the lower surface of the vestibular sac: they are arranged in a semicircular line. In the neighbourhood of this line the auditory nerve attaches itself to the sac, and forms a plexus, which covers the whole under surface of the sac, extending also towards its upper surface. The nerve is derived from the lesser and gi-eater antennal nerves. Dr. A. Farre has shown that the cavity situate at the base of the greater antenna is not, as has been hitherto supposed, suited to act as an organ of hearing. It is a conical papilla, abruptly truncated, and having stretched over it a membrane, which is pierced in its centre by an apertm-e capable of admitting a small bristle. On making a section of this part, nothing more is seen than a narrow canal in the fleshy substance leading perpendicularly from the external orifices, and terminating abruptly at the depth of two lines. A nerve is sent off to this organ from the supra- oesophageal ganglion. Such an organ is very ill-adapted for hearing. Dr. Farre has ascertained that this is the most sensitive part of the body of the lobster; "since, while the mechanical irritation of any other parts excited only a slight movement in the limbs of the animal, when out of water, and somewhat feeble, the touching of this part was immediately followed by a violent and almost spasmodic flapping of the tail."* * Farre on the Organ of Hearing in Crustacea. Phil. Tr. for 1843, p. 233.