175 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. CHAP. XXIII.] Fig. 153. and lap over, and finally meet and unite, so as to form a lid or oper- culum to the now closed cavity. Thus the epithelium of the lining membrane of the mouth may be shewn to form the lining of the folhcle, and to be reflected thence over the surface of the papilla. Now, the tooth papilla must be regarded as homologous with, or answering to, the tactile and hair papillsc of the skin, already de- scribed at a former page; and it would, therefore, be expected that its main part would consist of a peculiar sub-mucous tissue, covered by a homogeneous basement membrane, and surmoimted by a tissue answering to the epithelium; and this seems actually the case. The substance of the papilla is at first a congeries of granular nuclei, dis- persed irregularly through a firm homogeneous sub-granular matrix, or blastema, in which vessels and nerves are by degrees developed. This is bounded by a definite transparent membrane, on which rests a reflection of the epithelium lining the sac, modified in structure, so as to present a series of columnar nucleated particles, the matrix of the future enamel. It would appear that the lining and reflected layers of the epithelium become blended toge- ther, and constitute but one, which is more adherent to the sac than to the papilla, so that on opening the sac its wall generally seems to be unattached to the surface of the papilla, and the latter to be limited by what we have regarded as the basement membrane. Or, it may be that the epithelium reflected over the papilla disappears, leaving only that which lines the sac. Between the columnar epithelium thus lining the sac, and the surface of the alveolar cavity, that is, apparently in the wall of the sac itself, is now found a thick, semi-transparent, pulpy tissue, which has been termed the enamel- pulp. It presents towards the pulp of the tooth (dentinal pulp) a series of ele- vations and depressions, precisely the reverse of those of the dentinal pulp on which they rest, and answering mutually to these, with only the columnar epithelium intervening. The structure of this thick pulpy tissue is very beautiful and peculiar, as is seen in the annexed woodcut (fig. 153, A, a). It consists of a mesh of short fibres, meet- OcQOO o„ 00000 00%° 9,00 c oof ooo A. Vertical section of the cnamcl-puli), with the columnar epithelium, which is to become the enamel, a. Pulp. b. Posi- tion of basement membrane, e. Colum- nar epithelium, some particles being de- tached. Coliminar epithelium seen endwise. From a human fcutus of about months, magnified 200 diam. five