CHAP. XXIII.] THE ALVEOLI. 173 a), and not well understood, and also larger cracks or fissures (fig. 149), often branched, running through a part or the whole of its thickness. As Mr. Owen has pointed out, the enamel is the least constant of the dental tissues, being absent in many fishes, in exist- ing ophidian reptiles, and in the edentate and many cetacean mam- malia. The tooth-hone or cement is disposed as a permanent thin layer of osseous tissue on the roots of the teeth, and it also invests the enamel with a delicate film on the first emergence of the tooth from the gum. On the roots it is thickest towards the apex, and often lines the pulp-cavity of the dentine for a little way in. It contains sparingly the lacunse and canaliculi which characterise bone ; and, when thick enough, it presents also the lamellsc of that structure. In general it is in too small a quantity to require spe- cial Haversian canals ; but Mr. Tomes has shewn, that, between the roots of the larger human teeth, the tooth-bone is often in sufficient mass to be penetrated by a true canal of that nature; and, in the teeth of many animals, the cement is as vascular as ordinary bone. The canaliculi of the tooth-bone are for the most part directed from the lacunae towards the surface, where the ves- sels are spread out, but a few communicate with the peripheral branches of the tubuH of the dentine. It is through this osseous investment of the roots that the teeth adhere so firmly to the sockets in which they are implanted. The cavity of the teeth, containing the pulp, is in the fully form- ed tooth the analogue of the Haversian canal of bone, by which the organs of nutrition and sensation find access to the internal surface. The blood-vessels of the pulp are branches of the internal maxillary, and the nerves of the fifth pair, and they are both extremely abundant, in proportion to the extent of surface with which they are in rela- tion. The capacious capillaries form numerous arches, and the nerves likewise end in loops, (vol. i. p. 221,) which are best seen in the young tooth. The white substance of the nerve fibres has seemed to us to be often diminished or lost towards the convexity of the loops. The alveoli, or sockets in which the teeth are set, are cavities in the border of the jaws, corresponding in shape and direction to the roots of the teeth, formed on the outer and the inner side by a firm, compact plate of bone, which bounds the alveolar arch in front and behind, and separated from one another by septa of less compact material. The surface of these cavities is spongy, being perforated by minute vessels, which pass across to the surface of the roots of