[chap. XVII. INNERVATION. 30 wall is a diaphanous membrane with nuclei projecting at intervals, and the meshes average ^fo of an inch diameter. Behind the vesicular gray layer is the granular layer^ a term we shall apply to it, because it seems to consist of a close aggregation of small granules, which refract the light more powerfully than the neighbouring parts, and have scarcely any appearance of in- tervening matrix; they might be regarded perhaps as analogous to the nuclei of cells, and much resemble a layer of granules in the substance of some of the cerebral convolutions, and of the laminae of the cerebellum. They are made more evident by acetic acid. This layer is divided into two, of Avhich the inner is much the narrower, by a fole stratum^ which can only be seen by very careful manipulation. On the outside of the granular layer is that remarkable lamina, known by the name of its discoverer, the tmmhrana Jacohi. It ^.^ consists of club-shaped rods, placed uprightly, the thin end inwards, the thick outwards; and it is very easily detached from the rest of the retina, when the choroid is removed, so as to float as delicate shreds, visible to the naked eye, in the water in which the eye is immersed. The rods have a tendency to separate from one an- other when placed in water, and the club-shaped extremities are then Outer surface of the Retina showing the ^-^g^ gggjj |jg formed bv a Sud- mcmbraneof Jacob, partially detached.—After _ Jncob. (Jen bending back of the stem like a crook, which may be more or less opened out. Interspersed among the rods are seen on the outer surface a number of clear spaces, as though transparent cells were disseminated among them. This layer forms the connecting medium between the retina and the choroidal epithelium. It has been before stated that the optic nerve pierces the sclerotic and joins the retina about an eighth of an inch on the inner side of the axis of the eye. Precisely in this axis, the retina is of a decidedly yellow colour in a roundish spot of about 5', of an inch diameter, called, after its discoverer, the yellow spot of Swrnmerring. This spot exists only in man and the monkey among mammalia, but an analogous part has been found by Dr. Knox in reptiles. It has been described by some as a fold, by others as a foramen in the re- tina and after several examinations we should speak of it as a small