CHAP, xxvni.] THE CIRCULATION IN THE ARTERIES. 351 we must not seek for the opei-cation of other forces in order to ex- plain its phenomenca. To determine these points we must investigate the phenomena of the circulation in each of the systems of blood- vessels, and first in the arteries. Phenomena of the Circulation in the Arteries.—By each contrac- tion of the left ventricle a certain quantity of blood is pumped into the arterial system which is already full. Were the arteries and other blood-vessels a series of rigid and inelastic tubes there would necessarily ensue upon this a discharge of blood, corresponding iu quantity and rapidity, from the opposite extremity of the system. It is plain, however, from the slow rate of the venous circulation, and the less capacity of the auricles as compared with the ventricles, that this does not take place in the vascular system ; nor consider- ing the great extent of surface which the blood has to travel over in the capillaries, and the consequent friction it has to encounter, can it be expected that a quantity of blood should be discharged into the capillaries equal to that which the heart injects into the arteries. Room is obtained for each fresh quantity of blood (beyond that which can be simultaneously expelled from the opposite extremity of the vascular system) by the dilatation of the arteries under the force of the heart. The eminently extensible and elastic character of the arterial walls thus gives a peculiar feature to the arterial circulation, and is turned to good account in maintaining the flow in that system of blood-vessels. In yielding under the force of the heart the arteries become dilated at each systole to the extent, according to the experiment of Poiseuille upon the carotid of a horse, of one-twenty-third of its diameter, or of one-twenty-second, in a similar trial by Valentin on the carotid of a dog; but which must vary in diflferent arteries and at different times with the force of the heart, and the extensibility of the arterial wall. Poiseuille's observation, however, pointed out unequivocally the fact (pre- viously doubted), that the arteries are dilated at each systole of the heart.* This dilatation of the arteries calls into play a force which in some degree replaces the heart's force. The elastic arterial wall, stretched by the contraction of the heart, reacts with a power which approximates more closely to that by which it was dilated accord- ing as the arterial tissue is more or less elastic. The arteries are thus made to contract upon their contained blood, and to drive it * See the account of Poiseuille's experiment, and a figure of his instrument in Majendie's Journal, torn, ix., and also in Valentin's Physiologic, Bd. i. p. 449.