532 GENERATION. [chap. XXXVj. Reproduction in the class Acalephce takes place almost entirely by the for- mation of ova. It has, however, been shown by Professor Huxley, that some multiply by gemmation as well as by the production of ova (Diphyida;). Some of the species are unisexual, and others bisexual. The genital organ-, are only developed at cei-taiu periods, and the male and female elements arc brought into contact through the influence of the water in which they swim. In the Echiiiodermata, fission has only been observed to occur in one class (Holothuria) ; and the generative function, which is developed in this class to a great extent, is carried on almost exclusively by the production of ova. The sexes are distinct, but the ova are impregnated without sexual inter- course. In some there is a proper efferent duct; but in others the elements pass into the respiratory cavity, and thus escape from the body. Among the Entozoa great variety is met with in the arrangement and character of the generative organs. Almost all the animals of this class possess true generative organs, and multiply by means of ova, but in many of them fission occurs; as, for instance, in the tape-worm; but it is worthy of remark, that the entire animal is not produced in this process. The segments, however, which have been separated continue to live. As already mentioned, the Echinococcus multiplies by the formation of buds. Some of the Entozoa are unisexual, and have the power of self-impregna- tion, and some are bisexual. The Annelida reproduce by sexual appai-atus, and in some instances, as already referred to, by transverse fission. In the latter case, the different organs, including the tentacles and eyes, are developed before the new animal is separated from the old one. This mode of multiplication, however, only continues for a certain time ; at length it ceases ; genital organs, which before could not be distinguished, are developed, and ova are formed. The Hirudines and Lumbrici are hermaphrodite, but copulation is necessary for impregnation to take place. Amongst the lower MoUusca, the sexes are sometimes imited in one indivi- dual, and sometimes distinct. There are no copulatory organs, so that the water forms the medium by which the spermatic particles are conveyed to the ova. Amongst the Tunicata, multipUcation also takes place by gem- mation. Of the higher Mollusca, some are hermaphi'odite, and in others the sexes are distinct. Many families are characterised by the possession of what has been termed an hermaphrodite gland, which is almost always imbedded in the substance of the liver. This gland consists of numerous radiating and branched cceca. Each ca3cum consists of an external and internal sac folded within the first. Ova are produced by the external sac, and spermatic par- ticles by the internal one. Excretory ducts pass off" from these organs, and terminate in two tubes ; the one corresponding to the Fallopian tube, the other to the vas deferens. Besides this aiDparatus, there is also another organ connected with the excretory duct; this is the albumen gland, which fur- nishes a secretion in which the ova become imbedded as they pass towards the external orifice. This curious arrangement may be well seen in the common snail. Into the same cavity or cloaca in which the genital ducts terminate, is found the opening of another very remarkable organ—the dart sac—in which a hard and excessively sharp-pointed, and sometimes toothed, calcareous body