ROTATION OF THE YOLK. 571 CHAP. XL.] that the ovum reaches the uterus, except in the case of the rabbit, where BischofF has observed that they are lost as soon as it enters the Fallopian tube. Soon after the escape of the ovum from the follicle, and, in some instances, even before this, the germinal vesicle disappears. According to the observations of some observers, amongst whom may be mentioned Barry and Wagner, the germinal vesicle is the seat of cell-formation.* The nature of the earliest changes, however, are very obscure. Eventually, two cells result, which are destined to undergo subsequent division and subdivision. As the ovum passes along the Fallopian tube, it increases some- what in size : the yolk becomes of firmer consistence, and shrinks a little, so as to leave a cavity between it and the zona pellucida, which is occupied with a clear fluid. The original vitelline mem- brane itself, according to Dr. Barry, disappears by liquefaction. The external investing membrane seems to be derived from the mucous membrane of the Fallopian tube, and it is this which at length becomes developed into the chorion. Dr. Ransom describes the changes in the yolk immediately resulting from impregnation, in the stickleback's egg, as follows : — " About fifteen or twenty minutes after impregnation, a remarkable and more vivid contraction begins, causing the yolk to pass through a series of regularly recurring forms. The contraction begins on one side, near the equator, and soon forms a circular constriction, which gives the yolk the figure of a dumb-bell, the longer axis of which is the polar axis of the egg. The constriction travels towards the germinal pole, and next produces a flask-shaped figure ; this is at length lost by the constriction passing on, and the round form is regained in about a minute. This wave re-appears, and travels forward again, without any distinct period of rest; and I have seen these movements continue for forty- five minutes, though towards the latter part of this period they are less distinct and more limited in extent. The germinal mass itself, during these contractions, which strongly resemble the peristaltic movements of the intes- tine, imdergoes changes in form, and has increased in bulk and distinctness. These movements are unaff"ected by weak galvanic currents. Cleavage begins in about two hours after impregnation: no embryonic cell was observed before it began, nor in any of the cleavage masses." Rotation of the Yolk.— At a very early period after impregnation, Bischoff has observed, in the ovum of the rabbit, guinea-pig, and some other animals, the very interesting phenomenon of the rota- tion of the yolk. The movements were of a regular rotatory * J. Miiller has shewn that in Entochoncha mirabilis (one of the moUusca), the germinal vesicle docs not disappear, but forms tlic origin of the em- bryonic cell in the centre of the yolk. PP 2