TUE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviri. 378 David Barry illustrated the influence of inspiration in favouring the centripetal flow of blood. He introduced one end of a bent glass tube into the jugular vein of a horse, the vein being tied above the point at which the tube was inserted: the other end of the tube was immersed in a coloured fluid. At each inspiration the fluid rose in the tube, being drawn towards the chest, whilst during expiration it sank or remained stationary. Forced expiratory efforts, on the other hand, retard the venous circulation, as may be well illustrated by holding the breath for a few seconds, or straining strongly, when the veins, especially those of the neck and chest, will swell up and become distended ; but as soou as the breathing is restored, they return immediately to their former size. Hence it is that persons subject to frequent distur- bances of the respiratory actions, as in asthma or dyspncea of any kind, exhibit, after a time, more or less enlargement of the venous system. Disturbances in the respiratory actions seem to affect the circula- tion and especially that in the veins, more extensively in another way, namely, through the pulmonary capillaries. The imperfect respiratory changes, consequent upon the disturbed breathing, retard the flow of blood through the capillary plexus, which under- goes, by the dilatation and rupture of the air-cells, considerable stretching and widening of its meshes, and even becomes oblite- rated in parts. These changes also create additional obstacles to the pulmonary circulation, which impede the flow from the right ventricle, and increase the backward pressure of the blood on the walls of that cavity, causing it to become dilated and hypertrophied. It is, in this way, that are produced the hypertrophy and dilatation of the right cavities of the heart, which, to a greater or less extent, are invariable consequents of frequent attacks of asthma or brou- chitis. The influence of the respiratory movements upon the venous circulation is shown in the clearest manner by the use of the haimadynamometer, as in the experiments of Poiseuille, Magendie, Ludwig, Valentin, and Mogk, the column of mercury rising in expiration, and falling in inspiration ; and these experiments hke- wise prove that this influence is only felt in the large veins near the chest, and not in the more distant ones. The influence of ex- piration in retarding is much more powerful than that of inspiratiou in promoting the venous circulation, for the same physical condition of the chest which exists at the commencement of inspiration, a"-^ which favours the rush of blood to it, tends rather to delay '