INNERVATION. [chap. xxi. The ophthalmic, or lenticular, or ciliar?/ ganglion is found in the orbit, situate on the outer side of the optic nerve, a little way be- fore its entrance into the eye, enveloped in soft fat. It is a small quadrangular ganglion, of a reddish colour, not unlike a pellet of fat, for which it may be very readily mistaken by an inexperienced dissector. Numerous nerves proceed from the anterior angles of this gan- glion to the eyeball. These are the ciliary nerves, which have been already described, p. 40. The ophthalmic ganglion is connected with the third nerve, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. The branch of communication with the third nerve is a short thick nerve which comes from the inferior branch of that nerve : it is call- ed by descriptive anatomists, the short root of the ganglion. From the nasal nerve proceeds the long root, a long and very delicate nerve, which attaches itself to the superior posterior angle of the ganglion. We have not examined by the microscope the constitution of these branches of connection with the third and nasal ; but it is not uninteresting to notice that several anatomists have remarked in reference to them, that the jDlace of each is occasionally supplied by two, which may answer to the two connecting nerves already noticed, in the dorsal portion of the sympathetic- By means of a third filament called by some the middle root, this ganglion is brought into connexion with the cavernous or carotid plexus from the superior cervical ganglion. The sphenopalatine ganglion is situate in the pterygo-maxillary fossa; it is a small, somewhat triangular, ganglion connected with the infra orbital nerve, at its crossing over the spheno-palatine fissure, to pass along the floor of the orbit. This connexion is effected by two or three short nerves called commonly the spheno- palatine branches of the infra-orbital nerve. From this ganglion proceed, first, palatine nerves, which are three in number, (anterior, middle, and posterior), which pass through the posterior palatine canal, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the hard and soft palate, and also to the nasal mucous mem- brane. Secondly, nasal branches, described by Scarpa, which enter the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, and distribute branches to the spongy bones, and to the septum. One of these, the naso- palatine nerve, passes obliquely downwards and forwards, along the septum, and enters a canal in front of the foramen incisivum through which it passes to subdivide in the mucous membrane of