CHAP. XXXV.] 509 CAPSULE OF THE SPLEEN. its internal surface is concave, and its external surface is in contact with the diaphragm. The spleen lies in the left hypochondrium, and extends upwards as high as the tenth rib, but when enlarged reaches much higher, and increases upon the lower part of the thoracic cavity. The spleen is of a dark red colour, highly vas- cular, and of a soft pulpy consistence; it varies much in size, according to the state of general nutrition, and also at different periods of the digestive process. The Aveight of the spleen com- pared to that of the body at birth, is as 1:350, in adult life 1: 320, and in old age as 1:700. The following points have to be noticed in considering the structure of the spleen: the capsule, the trabe- cular tissue, the spleen pulp, or proper splenic parenchyma, and the arrangement of the ai'teries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. Capsule of the Spleen.—The spleen is covered by a reflexion of peritoneum, which extends to it from the fundus of the stomach, and is called the gastrosplenic omentum. The proper capsule of the spleen is composed of white and yellow fibrous tissue, and per- mits of considerable distension. It envelopes the organ entirely, and is prolonged into the interior upon the vessels, which are enclosed in sheaths composed of a structure closely resembling the capsule of the organ. In man there is an absence of muscular fibre-cells in the capsule; but in the dog and pig, and some other mammalian animals, they are very numerous. Trabecular Tissue of the Spleen.—If a section of a spleen be care- fully washed under a stream of water, the dark-coloured soft pulpy matter is removed, and a perfectly white and complicated fibrous meshwork remains. The interspaces bounded by these trabeculre vary much in size and form; but they are all intersected by still smaller trabeculse, and these smaller spaces by fibres visible only by the aid of the microscope. The network thus formed, much resembles that of the corpora caveniosa penis, and the fibres com- posing it, are intimately connected with the fibrous capsule of the organ, and also with the sheaths of the Fig.ub. vessels supplying it. The spaces or inter- stices communicate freely with each other, and in them is situated the pulpy tissue of the spleen. The larger trabeculse, like the fibrous cap- sule of the organ, are composed chiefly of ! white fibrous tissue, with some fibres of the ' yellow element. The smaller trabeculse are censn-om thetissue composed of elongated spindle-shaped cells, 'l^t'lZ^Tl'^^^^^^^^