407 CHAP. XXIX.] EXHALATION OF CARBONIC ACID. tigated, and by no one more extensively or more accurately than by Dr. Snow, wlio has, among other matters, turned his attention to the amount of carbonic acid gas passing from the lungs under their use. A small animal being placed in a jar, in which the air could be circulated in connection with a receptacle containing solu- tion of potash, for absorbing the carbonic acid, the quantity of this gas expired daring periods of half an hour, was estimated, when the animal breathed firstly air, and afterwards air mixed with certain quantities of the vapour of chloroform. The results were such as the following;—A dog, eight pounds in weight, exhaled in air lO'l grains of carbonic acid gas; in air mingled with 36 grains of chloroform vapour, only 4*8 grains. A half-grown cat expired in air 5*7 grains of carbonic acid gas; in air mingled with 20 grains of chloroform vapour, only 2 0 grains. And this diminution was observed, on this and other occasions, to be in spite of increased muscular efforts on the first introduction of the chloroform, such as are known to have a tendency to augment the excretion of carbonic acid. Exercise increases the exhalation of carbonic acid, and doubtless also the formation of it in the tissues. Mr. Newport observed that the generation of carbonic acid from bees, when at rest, did not exceed that from cold-blooded animals, but when in active move- ment it was more energetic than in any other animals; and other experimenters have produced analogous results. With more pre- cision, and in the case of the human adult, Vierordt shows, that, during moderate exercise, there is an average increase per minute of 19 cubic inches in the expired air, and of 1 cubic inch in the expired carbonic acid. The temperature o/the surrounding medium was shown by Seguin and Lavoisier to have an important influence on the exhalation of carbonic acid, and their results were corroborated by those of Crawford. Vierordt has recently examined this point also. In numerous experiments upon himself, at temperatures of which the average was 47° Fahrenheit, he expired 18-25 cubic inches of carbonic acid per minute; while at temperatures of which the average was 67° Fahrenheit, he expired only 1572 cubic inches in the same period. At the lower temperature, the number of respirations was increased, and more air was expired in the proportion of 406 to .366, or about 10 to 9. Cold, therefore, contrary to what might have been expected from its depressing effects on the system, is attended with an augmented exhalation of carbonic acid, and, as will be afterwards seen, with an increased