THE HUMAN LUNGS. XIX.] 389 CHAP. XX Fig. 204. r.) veniently designating that series of air-cells, associated by depen- dence on a single terminal air-tube. We shall afterwards show how much difference exists in the isolation of the lobules of the liver even in allied animals, and how unimportant this variety appears to be. The superficial lobules derive a covering on one aspect from the pleura, but are separated from it by rather dense areolar tissue, which may be dissected off without rupturing the air- cells. If the interstices between contiguous superficial lobules be explored by the knife, the terminal bronchia are found at the bottom of the fissures, each going to a single lobule, and 1 besides these are seen branches of the pulmonary artery and vein, not running in company, nor limiting themselves to a single lobule, but com- mon to contiguous lobules; so that the air-spaces of one lobule do not communicate with those of another across the interstices, but the blood- vessels do. On the exterior of a lobule we observe bubbles of air of various sizes in its tissue, and if the bronchial tubes be injected, the lobule is distended, and its exterior presents a number of bulgiugs known as the air-cells., about which much controversy has existed. rrii • 1 . 1 , ,11,,., Small bronchial tube laid Iheir shape seems irregularly polvhedral, like open, showing the arrange- , rr\\ i"^, , ment of the last cartila. tue lobules themselves, i he angles, where three gmous flakes. The tube has f, , , . been cut across above, at the or more oi tnese cells meet, are the pomts at point where it penetrates the , • , ., , . , , . n ,^ 1 substance of the lunff, and which the terminal twigs or the pulmonary ^ciow where it has a <iia- , T . , , , ,, nietcr of about 1-I2th of an artery and vein penetrate among the cells, after "icii. The clastic and mus- _ , . , ,, n /. cular fibres are not rcpre- meanclering more or less over the surface of rented, but both were so ■ 1,1, r L^ • n delicate as to allow the ad- the lobule. In their course in the interior of jncent air-cciis to be seen J1 , 1 , .1 , • , through the bronchi.il wall. the lobule, these twigs generally run separately ciUary epithelium was traced ■ n • ,. pjI ,r in the finest tube that could in the lines or junction or three or more cell- be opened by scissors, viz., walls, branching as they run and breaking up From a healthy n^n^^l'. into their capillaries on either hand. As the superficial lobules are truncated where they form the surface of the lung, so the cells are truncated where they form the surface of the lobule. This is most decidedly the case where the lobules are well defined, and admit of separation; but where contiguous lobules are not isolated by areolar tissue (as in most parts of the interior of the lungs, and in the lungs of the spialler