383 CHAP. XXVXII.] EAPID EFFECTS OF POISONS. that they enter the blood, and with it are whirled with immense velocity through the substance of the most vital organs.* * On tlie subjects discussed in the preceding cliapter, the reader is referred to the various systematic works on Physiology, to the supplement lately published by Valentin, and to Dr. Allen Thompson's very comprehensive article 'Circulation' in the Cyclopajdia of Anatomy and Physiology. On the anatomy and j'hysiology of the heart, Kurschner's article iu Wagner's Handworterbuch, and Dr. Jno. Rcid's article in the Cyclop, of Anat. may be consulted ; and as regards its motions and sounds, we refer to the reports of the Committee of the British Association collected in the Appendix of Dr. C. J. Williams's work on Diseases of the Lungs, to Dr. Blakiston's admirable work on Diseases of the Chest, to Dr. Walshe on Diseases of the Heart and Lungs, and Dr. Herbert Davies on the same subject; and on the physics of the circulation to Hales's Statical Essays, vol. ii.; to Dr. Young's Croonian Lecture on the Functions of the Heart and Arteries, Phil. Trans. 1S09, and Medical Literature, p. 605; Poiseuille sur la Force du Coeur Aortique iu Magendie's Journal, vol. viii., and his essay, Reclierchcs sur I'Ecoulement des liquides considere dans les Capillaires Vivans, in the Jour, des Sc. Nat. 1843 ; to the Essays of Lud- wig, Spongier, and Mogk, in Muller's Arehiv. ; Mageudie, Le9ons sur les Ph^no- menes Physiques de la vie, and especially to the very able work of Volkmann, Die Hocmodynamik nach Versuchen, Leipzig, 1850, which we only received when these pages were in type. The following works may also be mentioned as con- taining interesting matter relating to the circulation in general,—Dr. Graves's Clinical Lectures, lect. i. on the Circulation; Dr. Todd's three Clinical Lectures on the Pulse, Lond. Med. Gaz. 1851 ; Draper on the Forces which produce the Organization of Plants, New York, 1845 ; Prof. Jno. Reid's essay on Asphyxia iu his Physiological and Pathological Researches, cd. 1848.