545 SEMINAL TUBULES. CHAP. XXXVII.] hair follicles, as is usual in other situations in which they are found. The peculiar secretion known as the smegma preputii, is not due to these glands alone; but is rather to be regarded as an accumulation of the moist epithelium of the glans, which is, of course, mixed with the odoriferous sebaceous material. In the beaver, the epi- thelial secretion is so abundant, as to accumulate in large pre- putial pouches, the true nature of which was demonstrated by E. H. Weber. The secretion constitutes the substance known as castor. Vesicula Prostatica.—Between the openings of the ejaculatory ducts in the middle line of the urethra, and in the substance of the caput yallinaginis, is a small cavity, lined Avith columnar epithelium, the prostatic vesicle, or uterus masculinus, as it has been termed by Weber, from its supposed homology with the female organ. It has since been described under the name of Weberian organ, from its discoverer. Seminal Tubules.—The highly tortuous seminal tubes, of which the true secreting portion of the testicle is composed, consist of a fibrous coat, internal to which we find a basement mem- brane surmounted by epithelium. Now the characters of tliis epithelium, and the nature of the contents of the tube, will be found to exhibit dif- i-i-5r.26o. ferent appearances, ac- cording to the age of the individual; and in the lower animals, ac- cording to the period of the year. Sperma- tozoa, which are the fertilizing agents, are not found before pu- berty in man, and among animals are only developed at cer- tain periods. These bodies appear to be formed by certain al- terations taking place • .1 , . J'ortion of seminal tubules of man, with enclosed cells. Macn'fied m the Character 01 the 220 diameters. «. Wall of the tube. 6. Nuclei of fibrous coat c „ -J.! T 1. . ,1 i'lseiucnt membrune.—The liilter figure represents tile aptinn nf epithelium lining the acetic acid. </. Cells removed from the tubule. tubes, for this latter is most distinct when spermatozoa are not being formed; but when the function of the gland is very actively •(I'M