INNERVATION. 24 [CHAI'. XVII. The clescript ion of the choroid now given refers only to that por- tion of it which corresponds to the retina, and this latter membi ane ceases at a line (ora serrafa) about an eighth of an inch behind the margin of the cornea. In front of this line, and as far as the iris, the choroid is known as the ciliary hody, being modified to form the ciliary processes; and it is covered on its outer surface by a semi-transparent tissue, the ciliary muscle, at the anterior edge of which is a more opaque white ring, the ciliary ligament. The ciliary processes of the choroid project as folds, or plaitings, into the vitreous humor, and are there lodged in corresponding folds, the ciliary processes of the vitreous body. They are seen from within to commence at the anterior border of the retina, or ora serrata, as mere streaks, converging towards the lens; and it is only when advanced more than halfway to that body that they become projected into about sixty or seventy plaits, with subordinate ones between. These terminate by small free extremities, which slightly overlap in front the border of the lens, without touching it, being united to it through the medium of a delicate layer of the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humor. These folds take firm hold of the vitreous humor in its fi'ont part, all round the lens. Their texture is very vascular (fig. 113, h) and filled with irregular pigment-cells, (which in the human eye are least numerous on the most prominent parts,) and on their inner surface is a tough colour- less lamina, composed of ill-defined nucleated cells, (continuous with the border of the retina, but clearly not composed of nervous matter,) by means of which they are immediately connected with the hyaloid membrane. The strength of this connexion is evinced in attempts to sever it in the recent eye. After a certain amount of decomposition has taken place, the separation is much more easy. The ciliary processes by their anterior surface, near their apex, contribute to form the posterior wall and side of the posterior chamber, and are continuous with the back of the iris. They are there free, and washed by the aqueous humor. The ciliary processes are covered, and therefore concealed, on the outside by the ciliary muscle. The iris may rightly be regarded as a process of the choroid; it is continuous with it, although of a modified structure. It forms a vertical curtain stretched in the aqueous humor before the lens, and perforated for the transmission of light. It is attached all round at the junction of the sclerotic and the cornea, so near indeed to the latter that its anterior surface becomes continuous in the follownig manner with the posterior elastic lamina. This lamina near its