[chap. xliv. LACTATION. 626 dilated as they approach the nipple, and the dilatations arc called reservoirs. In the human subject, these are very small; but in the cow, they are large enough to hold a quart. The nipple is surrounded by a dark-coloured circle, termed the areola, smooth in the child, but slightly tuberculated at the period of puberty. In the child it is about half an inch in diameter; but in the adult, about an inch; while during lactation, it increases to two inches. After impregnation, it changes from its reddish colour to a dark brown. A secretion is poured out from the mucous follicles, which lubri- cates the skin about the nipple. The terminal follicles of the gland were injected by Mascagni; but for almost all that we know of the minute anatomy of the breast, we are indebted to the beautiful researches of Sir Astley Cooper, published in 1840. The surface of the breasts, in the unimpregnated state, is smooth and compact; but as pregnancy advances, they become uneven, in consequence of the distension of the follicles with secretion. The nipple, before puberty, forms an almost smooth conical eminence; but in lactation it becomes flattened, so that its extre- mity becomes the broader part, and thus it is more readily held by the child's mouth. Its characters have been minutely described by Sir Astley Cooper:—" At sixteen years it is slightly vrrinkled ; at seventeen, it has small papillae upon its surface; from twenty to forty years, the papillae are large; from forty to fifty, the nipple becomes Avrinkled; from fifty to sixty, the nipple is elongated; and in old age, it usually has a warty appearance." The cutis of the nipple contains a gi-eat number of papillae. It is sensitive and highly vascular. " The direction of these papillae is from the base towards the apex of the nipple; so that they are pushed back as the mammilla enters the mouth of the child, and thus greater excitement is produced." Connected with the cutis of the nipple are numerous non-striated muscular fibres, to the presence of which the erection of the nipple is due. In their minute structure, the lacteal glands are closely allied to the pancreas and salivary fluids. The gland structure is arranged so as to form lobules, which are connected together with a considerable quantity of firm areolar tissue (vol. i. p. 78). The terminal follicles are about the -^th. of an inch in dia- meter. They are lined with a layer of delicate epithelial cells, which become much altered at the time of lactation. At this time