-•0^ DIGESTION. [chap, xxiii. to, when there is no evidence, from its tense or inflamed state, that it is offering any undne obstacle to the progress of the organ beneath. The ossification of the permanent teeth commences a little before birth with that of the anterior molars, and in the course of the first, second, and third years it proceeds gradually in the incisors, the canines, and bicuspids. Their position in the jaw, meanwhile, has been undergoing change. The cavities of reserve, from which the developement of the ten anterior permanent molars proceeds, are at first placed between the milk sacs and the gum; but as the papillae are formed, as already explained, they recede behind, or to the inner side, and also pass deeper in the jaw, and ultimately get be- neath them, acquiring by degi-ees their alveolar cavities, and being closely and somewhat irregularly packed. As the anterior molar is developed, it soon comes to occupy the tuberosity of the maxilla and the base of the coronoid process in the respective jaws, and, after- wards, by the lengthening of the alveolar arch, descends into place on a level with those before it. As this occurs, the cavity of re- serve, situated over it, furnishes the papilla and sac for the second molar, which soon occupies the tuberosity or coronoid process, and then descends to behind the anterior one, a portion of the cavity of reserve being still left to furnish the hindmost molar or wisdom tooth in the same manner. As these several teeth descend to the alveolar arch, the jaw is proportionally lengthened by a suitable ad- dition from behind ; so that the circular arch, of which the alveoli at first consisted, is altered into an elliptical one. As the permanent teeth are being prepared to penetrate the gum, the bony partitions which separate their sacs from those of the tem- porary teeth are absorbed ; the fangs of the temporary teeth are removed by a very singular natural process ; and the permanent teeth come to be placed directly under the now loose crowns of the temporary ones, M'hich finally detach themselves and allow the per- manent teeth to take their places in the mouth. While it Is impos- sible not to admire the evidence of design fiirnished by this exqui- site process, it seems sufficient to assign it physiologically to that general law which determines the form and size of the several parts of organized'beings. It has been suj)posed that elongated produc- tions of the cavities of reserve, which have been carried down from the surface with the permanent tooth sacs, serve to re-direct them to their proper places as they rise through the gum. But it may ho asked, what served previously to carry down the pulps aright, and to form these gubernacula? It is manifest that we must ascend to