CHAP. XXXIV.] PELVIS OF KIDNKV. 505 urinary coas^i^tllents in a state of solution involves the necessity of a bladder, or receptacle, in which it can collect, and which would still farther add to the weight. We find in the minute anatomy of the bird's lung a beautiful arrangement by means of which not the smallest space where blood can be exposed to the action of air is lost. (Vide p. 395.) Pelvis of Kidney and Ureters—Tlie mucous membrane lining the pelvis of the kidney is continuous with that of the renal tubes at the point where they open upon the papilla?, in Avhich situation it is exceedingly tliin, and it is difficult to distinguish its epithelium. The epithelium of the pelvis of the kidney generally is polygonal in form, and constitutes a tolerably thick layer. The deeper cells are small and rounded. Many cells approaching to the columnar form may also be observed; and these increase in number towards the ureter, which tube is lined with this variety of epithelium. The ureters have muscular coat composed of two layers, an internal layer of circular, and an external one of longitu- dinal fibres. These are prolonged upwards into the pelvis of the kidney, and cease at the calyces. The muscular coat is composed entirely of unstriped muscular fibre cells, the nature of which will be particularly described when we come to speak of the uterus, and it is invested with an external coat composed of fibrous tissue. The ureters reach the base of the bladder, run obliquely through its coats for the distance of nearly an inch, and open into this viscus by two narrow slit-like openings about an inch and a half behind the prostate on its inferior surface, and separated from each other by the distance of nearly two inches. The openings readily permit the urine to pass into the bladder; but, by their arrangement, completely prevent its reflux into the ureter; the reflexion of mucous membrane at their mouth serves the office of a valve. We have already referred to the contraction of the ureters in p. 457 of the present volume. Bladder.—The urinary bladder is the large receptacle into which the urine is poured and in which it accumulates as it escapes from the ureters. Its size varies very greatly: it may be distended to such a degree as to contain nine, or even twelve pints of urine, in which case its walls of course become exceedingly thin, or it may be contracted so much as to leave scarcely any visible cavity in its interior. Its contracted muscular walls may be found half an inch or more in thickness, a condition very often met v^ith in cases of cholera. The internal surface of the bladder has a reticulated appearance VOL. ir. L L '