4 INNERVATION. [chap. xvi. and contain usually two nucleoli, even more pellucid than them- selves. The surrounding substance is in relatively small quantity, and is seen either as a mere film around the nucleus, or vertically elongated in various degrees. In the superficial series, a, the nu- clei, though lying on the same general level, are placed some higher and some lower, as if for convenience of package, since the parti- cles bulge where the nuclei are situated. The nuclei are scarcely Fig. 103. View of the ciliated epithelium of the nose, seen in section -.—a. Superficial series, clothed with cilia, b. Deeper series, becoming elongated vertically, c. Various shapes of the perfect ciliated particles,—Magnified 180 diameters. different in size or shape from those below. The surrounding granular substance of the particle is, however, much longer than be- fore ; below, where it is implanted between the particles of the deep series, it is pointed, though sometimes blunt, and often club- shaped, while the upper end enlarges, and terminates by a flat sur- face, from which the cilia project, c. It must be observed, that the cell-membrane, so apparent in the scaly epithelium heretofore described, is not to be found in this variety. It is either early ab- sorbed, or else so delicate and so united to the contained substance as not to be distinguishable as a separate object. It appears clear that this double series of particles constitutes two stages of growth of the same structure. Instances are not wanting of particles intermediate between the two, in which the future surface of the membrane is marked by a horizontal line, above which the granular substance exhibits a vertically fibrous structure, indicative of the coming cilia. Moreover, we have met with examples in which a surface perfectly ciliated was still covered with a layer of other ciliated particles, that, from their half-dissolved appearance, had evidently passed their prime, and were in process of decay. This progressive developement of the particles as they recede from the vascular source of their nutriment, and especially the evolution at last of those delicate evidences of life, the ciliary appendages, is a glaring example of the essential independence of the vitality of the tissues on the blood-vessels, and makes it more easy to conceive the really subordinate or ministerial office of those channels.