186 DIGESTION. [chap. xxm. From the hinder border of the hard palate passes the soft palate, a fold of mucous membrane enclosing mucous glands, a fibrous sub- stratum, and several muscles by which it is capable of various mo- tions. This terminates below by a free border, with the uvula in the centre; and from this border on each side descend the two pillars of the soft palate: thejjosterior downwards and backwards, enclosing and marking the course of the palato-pharyngeal muscle, and dividing the alimentary compartment before alluded to from the respiratory one above; the anterior downwards and forwards, con- taining the much-smaller palato-glossus muscle, and dividing the same compartment fi'om the mouth. Thus, this alimentary tract of the pharynx may be said to have its upper part included within the diverging pillars of the soft palate, with the tonsils projecting into it, and to have its summit formed by the lower edge with the uvula, the posterior or upper surface of the soft palate pertaining to the respiratory tract, and the anterior or lower to the mouth. The mucous membrane of the pharynx seen between the soft palate and tongue on opening the mouth lies above the posterior pillars, and con- sequently belongs to the respiratory compartment; and we have on several occasions had interesting proof of this in those cases of chronic syphilis attended with a dry state of the pharyngeal membrane, and in which this part has remained dry after the patient has been made to swallow water. The alimentary compartment of the pharynx has four orifices, all capable of closure : one towards the mouth, bounded by the lower edge and anterior pillars of the palate, by the base of the tongue and OS hyoides; another towards the oesophagus, at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage: these two are alimentary. The third opening is towards the upper compartment, and is bounded by the lower border of the palate with the uvula, and by the posterior pillars with a portion of the posterior wall; the fourth is towards the lungs, and formed by the upper part of the larynx defended by the epiglottis : these two are respiratory. The shape of the alimen- tary compartment is very irregvilar, and capable of gi-eat alteration by the movements partly of the os hyoides and tongue with the larynx, and partly of the constrictor muscles forming its back and sides. Much lax areolar tissue, containing no fat, surrounds it, and allows of these movements on the contiguous parts. As it is im- possible in the compass of this work to include a special description of the muscles and other constituents of the pharynx, we must sup- pose the reader to have already made himself acquainted with them from the ordinary sources.