503 I CHAP. XXXIV.] SULPHATES AND PHOSPHATES. water; the latter having been previously held in solution in the urine by some material which has been destroyed by a red heat. Although the presence of certain acids and certain bases in the ash is readily demonstrated, the precise manner in which these were originally united together is not so easily ascei-taiued. The most important saUne constituents of normal urine are chlorides, sulphates, and phosphates; and the following bases are present, potash, soda, lime, magnesia, with traces of silica and peroxide of iron. Chlorides.—The chlorine exists in combination with sodium, in the form of common salt, and perhaps also occasionally as hydrochlorate of ammonia. Almost the whole of the chloride of sodium is probably derived from the food ; although, from recent investigations, it appears jjrobable that this sub- stance plays an important part in the development of tissues, and also in certain morbid changes. In growing tissues, it is always abundant, and in the fluid on the surface of healing ulcers it exists in large quantity.* Sulphates.—The sulphuric acid exists in combination with potash, and perhaps also with soda. The sulphates are highly important saline consti- tuents, and their proportion is much influenced by the activity of the vital fimctions, and also by an animal diet. After exercise, the amount of the sulphates, as well as that of the urea, undergoes an increase; and it has been found, that in Chorea (a disease characterized by inordinate action of the muscular system) a large quantity of these salts are excreted in the urine.f The sulphuric acid is, doubtless, in great measure produced by the oxidation of the sulphur contained in the proteine compounds. Unhke the chlorides, the sulphates are not present, or are only met with in very small quantities, in the fluids of the body generally, with the exception of the urine, a circum- stance which points to the importance of the former in the organism, while it cleai-ly shows that the latter are not required in the nutritive changes, and are, therefore, only to be found in the excrements. Svlphuretted Hydrogen is from time to time detected in urine. Dr. Beale met with it frequently in the urine of insane patients. Sulphur is no doubt eliminated in considerable quantity in the urine in certain cases. Cystine contains as much as 26 per cent, of this substance. Phosphates.—Phosphoric acid is found in combination with soda, lime, and magnesia; the salts thus constituted have been spoken of as alkaline or earthy phosphates, the former term being confined to the combination of I phosphoric acid with soda, and the latter to the phosphates of lime and mag- nesia, which are precipitated from healthy urine by the simple addition of excess of ammonia. The large amount of phosphates present in urine is chiefly derived from the food, but part results from the oxidation of the phosphorus which is con- , tained in the tissues ; the particular tissue concerned in the formation of this phosphoric acid being the nervous, which, it is well knoAvn, contains a large proportion of phosphorus. Dr. Beuce Jones found an increase in the quantity of the alkahne phosphates in the urine of some cases of inflamma- tion of the brain, and a diminution in quantity in cases of delirium tremens when no food was taken ; but in the latter case the diminution is, probably, • " On the Diminution of the Chlorides in the Urine in Cases of Pneu- monia," by Lionel Beale. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxx. t Dr. Bence Jones. Med. Chir. Trans.,