[chap, xxvii. THE BLOOD. 306 that fluid into that " plastic" compound. This substance cer- tainly first appears in the chyle and lymph, where these par- ticles are found in great numbers floating in an albuminous fluid. Nor does it appear in the chyle until after that fluid has passed through the mesenteric glands, which furnish these particles iu large numbers. Dr. Carpenter regards the appearance of these colourless cor- puscles or cells in the blood as a phenomenon in close analogy with the development of cells in the albumen of the seed in the vegetable kingdom, and in the yolk of the eggs of oviparous animals, and he supposes that the office of these cells is to convert crude alimentary materials into proximate principles, which again, through the agency of cells, may be converted into, or may afford the materials for the peculiar compounds which form the charac- teristic ingredients of the secretions, or may pass into organised tissue.''" Of tlie Development and Decay of the Blood-Corpuscles. — It seems to us that the view which Mr. Wharton Jones takes re- specting the development of the blood-corpuscles, already described at pp. 300, 801, aff()rds the most simple and correct explanation of the origin and development of these particles. According to it, the lacteal and lymphatic systems may be regarded as the source whence fresh supplies of blood-corpuscles are being continually furnished to the blood at all periods of life. In the early embryo, as well as in the adult, the process of the formation of the blood- corpuscle would be the same, that is, the development of a nucleated cell, which undergoes transformation into the coloured particle, the steps of the process being successively granule cell, nucleated cell, and colouredpai'ticle (Fig. 179). This view would lead us to regard the system of lymphatic and mesenteric glands as the seat of an unceasing generation of new particles which undergo their later stages of transformation iu the blood. And it is well worthy the attention of Pathologists, as affording an explanation of the great influence which (as we learn from experience) this extensive system of glandular bodies exercises upon general nutrition. Prior to the formation of this glandular system and the deve- lopment of the lymph and chyle-corpuscles, the blood-particles are derived as nucleated cells from the cells of the germinal membrane, but they undergo essentially the same changes as in the more * Dr. Caqienter's remarks on this subject deserve tlie attentive perusal ami consideration of physiologists. Vid. Principles of Human Physiology, § 153— 159. T/iinl edition.