316 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. to the opinion which prevailed to the time of lierophilus that it contained vital spirits or air (spiritus or mivfji^a) during life, and the arteries were called 'Trvsuf/jccrtfca ayyua,.* Arteries are cylindrical tubes, whose walls are formed mainly by a highly elastic material, whereby the cylindrical form is preserved and the collapse of the tube is prevented. For the same reason when an artery is cut across, its month is patulous, and remains so. The walls of arteries consist of three different textures:—first, the external tunic, composed of areolar tissue, and commonly called the cellular coat:—secondly, the middle coat, or fibrous tunic; and thirdly, the epithelial tunic. The external tunic is that through the medium of which the artery is connected with neighbouring structures, and it also forms a nidus for the support of the nutrient blood-vessels of the arterial wall. These minute vessels, named loasa msorum, are derived from neigh- bouring arteries; they ramify freely in the external tunic, and send minute branches to a certain depth in the wall of the artery. In a well-injected subject, they may be seen filled with injection on all the larger arteries, and when great vascular congestion has accompanied or preceded death, these vessels participate in the general plethora, and may be seen distended with blood on the aorta and its larger branches. In some of the large arteries, a few pellets of fat may be found in the outer layers of the external tunic, which consist of A^ery loose areolar tissue : the inner layers of this tunic are, however, very condensed, and adapt themselves closely to the middle coat of the artery to which they adhere intimately, probably by reason of the continuity of some of their fibres with those of the middle tunic. The same elements are found in the external coat of arteries, as in areolar tissue elsewhere, namely, the white and yellow fibrous tissue, but the former predominates in quantity so much that in some situ- ations it seems to be the sole constituent of the tunic. The extensibility, toughness, and power of resistance which this tunic enjoys, by reason of the large quantity of white fibrous tissue which it contains, adapt it admirably as the external investment of the arterial tube. It serves to give mechanical support to the other tunics, and being the medium in which the nutrient blood- vessels are distributed, it contributes to a certain extent to their nutrition. Hence there is no other tunic, the loss of which, an * This idea respecting the office of the arteries is thus expressed by Cicero. " Spiritus ex pulnione in cor recipitur et per arterias distribuitur, sanguis per vcnas." De Nat. Deor., L. ii.