^ DEVELOPMENT [cHAP. XLII. and at this point a second vesicle makes its appearance, which becomes the cochlea. The semicircular canals are developed by a contraction and folding-in of the Avails of the vestibule. From Mr. Gray's careful observations, it appears that the labyrinth, about the twelfth or thirteenth day of development in the chick, has an appearance closely resembHng the retina at the same time—a point of great interest. Huschke has shown that the Eustachian tube, the cmity •of the tympanum, and the external meatus, are the remains of the first branchial cleft, which eventually becomes divided by the membrana tympani. The ossicles of the ear are formed as follows:—The malleus and incus, according to Reichert, are produced from the first visceral arch, which also gives origin to the superior and inferior maxillte. The stapes appears to be produced from the second visceral arch, which also gives rise to the hyoid bone and its suspensory appara- tus. The ossification of these Httle ossicles commences in the fourth month of intra-uterine life. The development of the mouth and nose have already been alluded to at page 598. Development of the Heart and Aortic Arches.—The development of the heart is best studied in the chick. It appears towards the end of the second day of incubation, as a small hollow tube be- tween the mucous and serous laminaj of the germinal membrane. About the thirty-sixth hour it has become a simple tube, much curved and twisted upon itself. Posteriorly, it terminates in two or three large venous trunks, which are insensibly lost on the germinal membrane; and anteriorly, it divides into two branches, which imite beneath the vertebral column to form the aorta. The trunk of the vessel again divides into two branches, which are lost on the vascular area. Early on the third day, the heart consists of three cavities — the sinus venosus, the ventricle, and the bulbus aorta; the first soon becomes divided into the two auricles, and by the fourth day the ventricle assumes its usual form, and the formation of the septum, which divides its cavity into two portions, commences. About the beginning of the third day, the aortic bulb divides into four pair of vascular arches. On the fourth day, the first pair disappears and is at length obliterated, and the second pair becomes smaller; but now is formed a fifth pair, which becomes larger on the fifth day, while the second entirely disappears; so that there are at this time only three pau', and these of nearly equal size.