iob DIGESTION. [chap, xxiii. the inner surface of tlie digestive tube, fitted for comminuting the food previous to its being acted on by the gastric juice. In the higher classes they are of an osseous nature and fixed to bone, though not originally. Among the invertebrata, the echini are remarkable for their calcareous oral teeth, five in number. The mouth of the leech is armed with three serrated teeth, worked by muscles, which saw their way into the skin. In some insects the gizzard is armed with a very complicated system of horny teeth. In the stomach of the Crustacea is a cartilaginous fi-amework, with projecting teeth, moved by muscles, and capable of very powerful masticatory actions. Among the gasteropods, the bulla3 have three stomach teeth ; and others, as the Aplysia, a great multitude, of large size and of different forms. True osseous teeth are found only in three classes of vertebrata, viz. mammalia, reptiles, and fishes. Some of these, however, are with- out them, as, among mammalia, the American ant-eater, the manis, the echidna, the proper whales; among reptiles, the tortoises ; and the sturgeon among fishes. The teeth of fishes are fixed not merely to the maxillary bones, but also to the palate and other bones, bound- ing the mouth and throat, and they are often extremely numerous. The bills of tortoises and birds perform some of the functions of teeth ; but in those of the latter class which live on hard vegetable sub- stances, the muscular gizzard, with its hard cuticle, and by the help of small angular stones which the instinct of the animals teaches them to swallow with the food, performs the functions of a masti- catory apparatus. Among, the mammalia, the teeth are few in num- ber, and limited to a single row in each jaw. Teeth may be classed according to their shape and the function they have to perform. Thus, the following varieties may be briefly enumerated:—The cutting or gnawing teeth of the rabbit or beaver, —the front teeth of man. The conical teeth of fishes for seizing and retaining prey—the canine teeth of the lion and dog. The hinder teeth of the carnivora, with several sharp elevations for tear- ing. The more complex crushing teeth of the insectivora, and of the frugivorous monkeys. Lastly, the true grinding teeth of grani- vorous and graminivorous animals. Oftlie Human Teeth.—The teeth in the adult human subject are thirty-two in number, of which four are incisors, two canines, four bicuspids, and six large molars, in each jaw. Those of the upper jaw form the larger arch, so as to overlap those of the lower jaw ni front, and to overhang them somewhat at the sides, when the mouth is closed. Each tooth has a croimi or lody, projecting above the gum,