THE COCHLEAR NERVES. 81 CHAP. XVIII,] Fig. 141. The scala; of the cochlea are lined with a nucleated membrane, or epithelium, which is very delicate and easily detached, usually more easily seen in the vestibular than in the tympanic scala, and in many animals containing scattered pigment. Of the cochlear nerves. These enter from the internal auditory meatus through the spirally-arranged orifices at the base of the mo- diolus, and turn over in succession into the canals hollowed in the osseous zone of the spiral lamina, close to its tympanic surface. In this distribution the nervous bundles subdivide and reunite again and again, forming a plexus with elongated meshes, the general radiating arrange- ment of which can be readily seen through the substance of the bone when it has been steeped in diluted hydrochloric acid (fig. 141). Towards the border of the osseous zone the bundles of the plexus are smaller and more closely set, so as at length almost to form a thin imiform layer of nervous tubules. Beyond the border, and partially on or in the inner transparent belt _ , , J1 J 1 1 Plexiform arrangement of 01 the membranous zone, these tubules arrange the cochlear ner\cs seen in , , , • 1 ii • 1 11 the basal coil of the lamina themselves more or less evidently into small spiralis, treated with hydro- , iiTi 1,1 chloric acid. There are no sets, which advance a short distance and then ganglion globules in this , . , , , -. rr\, , ple.\us, which consists of terminate much on the same level. Ihese ter- tubular fibres. «. xwig of , „ , , , , . cochlear nerve in the modio- minal sets oi tubules are cone-shaped, coming to lus, its fibres diverging and I • 1 n • , .1 rni 1 1 reuniting in 4, a band ni the a kind ot point ere they cease, ihe white sub- plexus taking a direction , r»oi -I'll ,1 1, iiarallel to the zones. From stance oi bchwann exists in them throughout, this other twigs radiate, and ., . ... Ill .,1 again and again branch and but is thrown into varicosities and broken with unite ns far as the margin of . r>-T, iji ., I'.i f'e osseous zone c, where extreme lacihty, and they are interspersed with they terminate. From the 1 • ii i -J • Tjs? 1, J T ,1 sheep. Magnified 30 diam. nuclei, so that it is very dimcult to discover the precise disposition of the individual tubules (fig. 139, a). They seem to cease one after another, thus causing the set to taper; and at least it appears certain that evidence of loopings, such as have been described by some, is wanting. In the cochlea of the bird, however, we have seen at one end a plexiform arrangement of nucleated fibres ending in loops ; but this is a peculiar structure. The capillaries of the osseous zone are most abundant on the tympanic scala, in connexion with the nerves now mentioned, and form loops near the margin, with here and there an inosculation with the large marginal capillary already mentioned. Of the membranous lahyrinth (fig. 142). This has the same general shape as the bony cavities in which it lies, but is consider- VOL. II.