[chap. xxr. INNERVATION. 142 The view, which we regard as the correct one, rests entirely upon the facts of anatomy ah-eady stated. These facts lead us to consider the sympathetic nerve a compound nerve, consisting of gelatinous fibres, which are derived from the vesicular matter of the ganglia, and of tubular fibres, proceeding from the spinal cord. These fibres are bound together in the same sheath, and whatever be the proper function of each, they bear to each other a similar relation to that which the anterior and posterior roots of spinal nerves do in the compound nerve. Originating from different sources, and possessing probably different endowments, they travel in company to their several destinations. We are aware that some physiologists of high and deserved re- pute altogether deny that the gelatinous fibres, which we have de- scribed as entering so largely into the constitution of the s}Tnpathetic, are nervous. They regard them as an early stage of fibrous or areolar tissue. The following reasons appear to us quite decisive of the nervous nature of these fibres. 1. They may be distinctly traced to the vesicular matter of ganglia; it is immaterial to the question whether they form their connexion with the sheaths or with the vesicles themselves, for we are as much at liberty to regard the nucleated envelope of the vesicles as a structure essentially nervous as the vesicles themselves. Parts of the encephalon ajjpear to consist of little else than nuclei. 2. Throughout the sympathetic system these fibres and the tubu- lar fibres exist in the several nerves in different but determinate numbers. Sometimes the two kinds are equal, sometimes one pre- dominates over the other; sometimes the nerves consist solely of gelatinous fibres. Now if these latter performed the office of a sheath or support to the others, they would always be in due pro- portion to each other. Moreover, the gelatinous fibres would be alway outside, enveloping the tubular, which is not at all uniformly the case. 3. Nucleated fibres, very similar to the gelatinous fibres of the sympathetic exist in parts where their nervous character is indu- bitable, as in the olfactory filaments (p. 8), and the nerve in the axis of the Pacinian corpuscle exhibits very much the same appearance, save that it is devoid of nuclei. Adopting this view of the compound nature of the sympathetic, it is obviously impossible to regard it either as independent of the cerebro- spinal centres, or wholly depending on them. It seems pro- bable that it is independent of them as regards its gelatinous fibres, but dependent on them as regards its tubular fibres. And it may be stated that the views of anatomy which we hold