[chap, xxxih. LIVER. 4G4 i.e., Avliere the blood is leaving it, so that the blood circulates in the reverse direction to that in which the bile must flow. The Liver in Invertehrata.—The liver is one of the most constant glandular oi'gans, being met with, in some form, in all animals provided with a digestive ca'sdty. In the polyps, the liver is represented by some coloured cells round the stomach. In many of the annelids, clusters of biliary cells are seen sur- rounding the ctecal prolongations of the digestive cavity. In the Eolis (one of the nudibranchiate gasteropodous mollusks) a somewhat similar arrange- ment is observed, the follicles of the alimentary tube being prolonged into the papilla}, covering the dorsal surface of the animal. In most other mollusks, however, the liver exists as a distinct organ, and is composed of branched foUicles, arranged round terminal ducts. The follicles contain coloured cells, iu which oil globules are often present in considerable number. In many of the Crustacea, the liver is detached from the intestinal walls, and consists of numerous large coeca (Fig. 215), which pour their contents into small ducts, although in others it seems to consist simply of cells arranged in follicles, which are connected with the intestine, as in the lowest classes. In insects, the hepatic organ takes the form of simple or branched tubes, from two to six in number, which open into the intestine. According to our observations, the cells do not appear to be arranged round the tube, so as to leave a distinct central channel, as in the uriniferous tubule, but he within the basement membrane, without order or regularity, often completely filhng the tube, and not unfrequently, from their large size, causing it to bulge. We shah pre- sently see that a very similar arrangement exists in the tubular network of basement membrane, which contains the liver-cells in vertebrate animals. Throughout the whole animal series, the liver consists essentially of cells containing colouring matter, and usually oil globules, which lie -ndthin a tube or follicle of basement membrane, continuous with the ahmentary canal. Having premised these general points, we shall noAV proceed to consider the anatomy of the liver more in detail. Lobules of the Liver.—The terminal twigs of the portal veins and tlie commencing radicles of the hepatic vein, thus distributed through the liver with a definite thickness of capillary plexus -with nucleated bile-cells interposed, ai'c ^'f 218. further arranged in such a manner as that the intervening mass is gathered, not into a folded sheet, but into a •v;' •fio'.:'*' great number of small portions, termed p ■ lobules. These lobules are apparent to V the eye in many animals; but in the pig they are each of them invested by a ^ 1%;;^ separate and distinct membranous en- , , velope or capsule, which is composed of I'ortiDii of fibro.i.s capsule of aliibule of i ^, • /tt m o\ T fliJc the i.ic's liver, showing arrangement of ^ellCatC fibrOUS tlSSUC (r Ig. ^ioj. in llH* the fibres—215 (lianictors. . i i i i i ■!« anmial, each lobule may be regarded ab