354 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxvia. of blood into the arterial system from the heart. The walls of the arteries have nothing to do with the causation of the pulse, but may render it more or less distinct according as they are more or less yielding. The character or quality of the pulse will depend primarily and essentially upon the force of the heart,—secondly, upon the integrity of the mechanism by which that force is directed so as to drive the blood into the arteries,—thirdly, upon the quantity of blood in the vascular system,—and, fourthly, upon the condition of the arterial walls, according as it is apt to oppose or to yield before the wave caused by the heart's action. By reference to these points, we may explain the various conditions of the pulse observed in practice. Thus a weak heart, or a contracted arterial aperture, or a small supply of blood, will each equally produce a small pulse ; while a certain power of heart, and an open unimpeded state of the arterial aperture, with a full supply of blood, are quite necessary to the formation of a large round pulse. But the qualities of soft- ness or fulness, of hardness or wiryness, of compressibility, of incompressibility, all which are familiar to the tactus expertus of the practical man, are determined by the yielding or the resisting condition of the arterial wall. Contractility of Arteries.—Arteries possess a power of contraction in virtue of the large quantity of elastic material which enters into the constitution of their wall; but this is a contraction which may occur in a dead as well as in a living artery, and which simply serves to restore to its medium dimensions an artery previously dis- tended or stretched. They have, however, also a power of active contractility, which ceases with life, which is capable of being called into play not only by distension, but by other appropriate stimuli, and which can diminish the size of the vessels far beyond what their mere elasticity could effect, and even against the influence of the elastic force. This contractile power is due to the presence of unstriped muscular fibres in the arterial wall. The demonstration of these fibres in the walls of arteries by the microscope leaves no more doubt of the existence of a muscular contractile force in them than of its existence in the cesophagus or the intestine. Experiment anticipated anatomical research in pointing out that arteries con- tract as tubes do whose walls contain muscle, and it also indicated the peculiar manner in which the muscular fibres of arteries act. Under the influence of a stimulus even of so slight a nature as exposure to the air, an artery may be observed to contract very gradually, and to become very much diminished in size. Thus, in