CHAP, xxvm.] CAPILLARY VESSELS. 327 the vessel, and the internal layer or fenestrated membrane which, in every respect, corresponds to the internal longitudinal fibrous layer of arteries. Upon this is placed the epithelium, which is precisely the same as that of arteries. The imperfect developement in veins of a tunic possessing much elastic power, like the circular fibrous coat of arteries, explains the readiness with which these vessels collapse, and the general tliin- ness of the fibrous and areolar tunics accounts for the diaphanous character of the venous wall. In a large portion of the venous system peculiar processes, called valves, are found projecting into the interior of the vessel at various points. These processes are semilunar, attached by their convex border to the wall of the vein, and free at their concave border, which is a little thickened. They are disposed in pairs in immediate juxta- I position—sometimes there are three placed together. They are most numerous in the superficial or subcutaneous veins : and are more so in the veins of the lower half of the body than in those of i the upper. The smallest veins are destitute of valves; as also are I the largest, as the cavse. The pulmonary veins, those of the liver, and all the veins which contribute to the hepatic portal system, ' the splenic and mesenteric veins want valves. The renal veins are ! also devoid of them. The tissue of which these valves are composed is the same as the longitudinal fibrous coat of the vein, covered by a layer of epi- thelium ; the valves cannot be properly described as reduplications of the inner membrane of the veins, they are processes of it.* Of the Capillaries.—The system of vessels which is intermediate to the veins and arteries, is called by the name capillary, from the f minuteness of their size. The finest arteries, and the finest veins - ; likewise, receive this appellation. But the true capillary system is distinguished by a speciality of arrangement and an uniformity of size, proper to each tissue or organ. The capillary vessels may be examined in injected specimens, or in recent transparent tissues, as in the pia-mater, or in living trans- parent tissues, as the web of the frog's foot, the mesentery or distended urinary bladder of the frog, the tail of the newt, the gill of the tadpole, the tail or fins of fishes. The diameter of the capillaries varies in different textures from » We have gicat pleasure in veferiing to an excellent article on tlie anatomy of |i veins in the 42ncl part of the Cyclopocdia of Anatomy and Physiology, by Dr. S. J. Salter. 1