ABSORPTION. [chap. XXVI. 280 the fluid element. The coagulability of the lymph appears to bear a close relation to that of the blood in the same animal. Lymph.—The liquid portion, liciuor lymphce., is supposed by some to be simply albuminous in the primary network, and to acquire its librine on its passage onwards through the vessels and glands towards the veins. The fibrine is found in increasing quantity towards the main trunks, though never in so large a proportion as in the liquor sanguinis. The same kind of saline matters are also met with in the liquor lymphaa as in the liquor sanguinis, together with a trace of fatty substance and some iron. Fig. 172. The lymph corpuscles are vei-y scanty in the primary network and branches (as already noticed in the observa- tions of KolHker), and they increase in number, and perhaps in size, to- wards the trunks, espe- cially as they pass the glands. They present themselves under some varieties; in one, and this is the most usual, the nucleus is concealed by a granular matter, in another this granular matter appears in process of removal or deliques- cence, so that the nucleus is visible—or, again, the interval between the nu- cleus and the cell-wall matter wanting. These respectively the granule- Fluid from a mesenteric gland of a rabbit, when white chyle was present in the lactcals. a. Molecular base, b, c, d,, itc. Various organic corpuscles, b. Appearance of the majority of corpuscles. The contained granules arc most numerous and coarse in the largest ones, but almost entirely disapi)car under the action of acetic acid, which thereby discloses an aiipcarance of one or two nuclei. The majority of the corpuscles arc either large or small, and but few of intermediate size. d. Exhibits the effect of acetic acid in rendering the corpuscles more clear and their nuclei more distinct, e. Large lymph-corijuscle, showing well the granulated border. /. Large corpuscle, ap- parently inclosing three smaller ones, each of which has the granulated character. This appearance of inclosed cells is not common.—Magnified 300 diameters. may be quite clear, and the granular corpuscles are called by Mr. W. Jones cell and the nucleated cell in the iincoloured stage, and he further points out that there are in the lymph other nucleated cells approximating in colour to the red-corpuscles of the blood, and which he regards as in progress to become red blood corpus- cles, by losing their cell-wall, and becoming reduced to a simple nucleus.* Besides these true corpuscles of the lymph, it is very common to * Philosophical Transactions, 1846, p. 82, and the next chapter, on the Blood.