501 CHAP. XXXIv.] URIC ACID. known as lithate of ammonia, although Lohmann, Becquerel, and Heintz, all agree that it is composed principally of lithate of soda. In the m-ine of the caruivora, uric acid is present in small quantity, but, as a general rule, it is absent from the urine of the herbivora; and, curiously enough also, it cannot be detected in the urine of the omnivorous pig. The excrement of birds, and that of serpents and other reptiles, and of many insects, contains a large quantity of alkaline urates. Guano, as is well known, is chiefly composed of lithate of ammonia. After profuse perspiration, the quantity of uric acid has been found to be diminished in the urine; but a purely animal diet exerts but little influence u.pon the quantity of this substance excreted by the kidneys. It is much increased, however, in all febrile conditions of the system, and after imperfect digestion of food. In cases where the respiratory function is impaii'cd, the amount of uric acid has been found to be abnoi'mally increased; and insuffi- cient exercise will produce a similar effect. Uric acid has been detected in the blood of healthy men by Garrod, and in considerably increased i^roportion in the blood of gouty patients. It has also been detected in the perspiration, and the deposits formed about the joints of gouty persons are largely composed of it. According to Wohler and Frerichs, the introduction of lithic acid into the blood is followed by an increased secretion of urea and oxalate of lime in the urine, a point of considerable interest when we know that, by the influence of peroxide of lead, a similar decomposition of the lithic acid may be induced artificially. When all these circumstances are considered, more especially that, in cer- tain instances in which the respiratory changes are not carried on with the activity consistent with perfect health, a gi'eatly increased quantity of lithic acid is eliminated by the kidneys, there appears ample evidence to show, that lithic acid is one of the purely excrementitious substances derived from the disintegration of the tissues, and formed by the action of oxygen upon effete material. By a process of further oxidation, the lithic acid itself becomes converted into m-ea as we just now mentioned. Hippuric Acid (C,g Hg N O5, HO), according to Liebig, exists in small quan- tity in healthy human urine, but it is obtained in considerable quantity from the urine of horses, cows, and other herbivorous animals. It is quite in- odorous, has a rather bitter taste, is sUghtly soluble in cold, but very soluble in hot water and alcohol, characters in which it differs from uric acid. It is easily prepared from the urine of cows by precipitation by hydrochloric acid and subsequent purification. It is, however, absolutely necessary that the' urine should be perfectly fresh, otherwise the hippuric acid will be found to have been entirely converted into benzoic acid, a change which may also be induced in the pure acid by the action of heat and mineral acids. It has been stated by Mr. Ure, that if benzoic acid be taken, it is ehminated from the system as hippuric acid. Hippuric acid has been foimd in the urine of many herbivorous animals andby Lehmann in that of the tortoise {Testudo Grceca) and many herbivorous insects. It is not present in the urine of the carnivora. In cases of diabetes it is stated by the same observer to be never absent from the urine; and in health may usually be detected if the diet be purely of a vegetable character. This acid, like uric acid, must be looked upon as an excrementitious substance and plays no other part in the system. '