CHAP. XXIV.] SOLUTION OF THE STOMACH AFTER DEATH. 199 had been mechanically divided were most completely acted on ; the substances contained in balls with large holes were more completely acted on than those contained in balls with minute holes ; and, lastly, the various vegetable grains, as wheat, rye, barley, oats, and peas, were least of all altered, having only become moistened and swollen, while bone underwent no change. Dr. Stevens also introduced leeches and earthworms in his per- forated spheres, and found that even these animals, though intro- duced living, were dissolved as inanimate matters.* John Hunter made some observations which furnished an inter- esting proof of the existence of a solvent gastric fluid. He was struck with the condition of the stomach in two cases of sudden and violent death. A man had his skull fractured by a single blow of a poker : just before the accident he was in perfect health, and had taken a hearty sujjper. Upon opening the abdomen, he found that the stomach, though it still contained a good deal, was dissolved at its gi-eat end, and a considerable part of its contents lay loose in the general cavity of the belly; a circumstance, he adds, which puzzled him very much. The second instance was in a man who died at St. George's Hospital a few hours after receiving a blow on his head which fractured his skull. In both these cases the solution was at the splenic end of the stomach; the edges of the opening and the mucous membrane for some distance within were half dis- solved, " very much," says Hunter, " like that kind of digestion which fleshy parts undergo when half digested in a living sto- mach, or when acted upon by a caustic alkali, viz. pulpy, tender, ragged." " In these cases," Mr. Hunter adds, " the contents of the stomach are generally found loose in the cavity of the abdomen about the spleen and diaphragm; and in many subjects the influence of this digestive power extends much farther than through the stomach. I have often found, that, after the stomach had been dissolved at the usual jjlace, its contents let loose had come into contact with the j spleen and diaphragm, had dissolved the diaphragm quite through, I and had partly aff"ected the adjacent side of the spleen ; so that what had been contained in the stomach was found in the cavity of the thorax, and had even alFected the lungs to a small degree." " There are very few dead bodies in which the stomach at its great end is not in some degree digested ; and one who is acquainted with dissection can easily trace these gradations. To be sensible of * Dc Alimentorum Concoctione, Edin. 1777, (in Smellie's Tlics. Med.)