INNERVATION. [chap, xviii. in thickness is attached, so that the adherent part shall extend from the circumference to the centre of the membrane, while the free portion may project beyond the circumference. When a vibrating glass is brought near this membrane, very regular figures are ]n-o- duced, modified, however, by the adhesion of the piece of wood, and the vibrations of the membrane are communicated to the wood, on which likewise regular figures may be produced. The more exten- sive the membrane, the longer and thicker may be the piece of wood in which it can excite oscillations, and Savart states that, with Fig. 146. Fig. u;. membranes of a considerable diameter, he has produced regular vi- brations in rods of glass of large dimensions. The oscillations of the piece of wood are much more distinct when the adherent por- tion is thinned down, as in c, d, fig. 147, by which it becomes more completely identified with the membrane; the oscillations of this latter are communicated directly to the thinned portion of the wood, and thence propagated to the thick portion, a: sand spread upon a will exhibit active movements, and will indicate very distinct nodal lines. Hence it may be inferred that the malleus j^articipates in the oscillations of the tympanic membrane; and these vibrations must be propagated to the incus and stapes, and thus to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. The chain of ossicles then evidently performs the office of a conductor of oscillations from the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis; but the malleus likewise has the important function under the influence of its muscles of re- gulating the tension of the tympanic membrane ; and to allow of the changes in the position of this bone necessary for that purpose, we find it articulated with the incus by a distinct diarthrodial joint, and between this latter bone again and the stapes there exists another and a similar joint. This mobility then of the chain of bones, and the muscular apparatus of the malleus and stapes have obvious reference to the regulation of the tension of the membrane of the tympanum as well as of that of the fenestra ovalis. We have already seen how the muscle of the malleus regulates the membrana tympani, increases its tension, and thus limits the extent