300 [chap. XXVII. THE BLOOD. In the Invertebrate classes, corpuscles exist wliich arc in close analogy wiili those of the Vertcbrata, but differ from tlicni in several particulars (Fig. 178). They are nucleated cells, some of which contain within them numerous granules which conceal the nucleus; some of these corpuscles, according to Mr. Wharton Jones, arc, upon their first removal from the body, of an elongated oval form, and others spindle-shaped. Their size does not exceed of an inch in their long diameter, nor sn'jjnth in the short. In most of the classes the particles do not exhibit any indication of colour, although they contain some of the ingredients of hematine ; in a few, however, slight traces of colour are present.* 0/ the Structure of the Bed Corpuscle.—The structure of the red corpuscle of most of the vertebrata may be readily demonstrated in the blood of Reptilia—that of the frog, for mstance. It is dis- tinctly a nucleated cell—consisting of a delicate cell membrane, within which is a granular nucleus, which may be rendered more distinctly granular by acetic acid (Fig. 176, b). The nucleus is globular and much smaller than the cell, and the interval between the inner surface of the latter and the outer surface of the former is filled by fluid which holds the colouring matter in solution. Corpuscles of this kind floated in pure water become distended by the endosmosis of it, burst and give exit to their nuclei, while the shreds of the cell-membrane are scattered in the fluid. It cannot be shown satisfactorily that the biconcave circular cor- puscle of human blood and of that of mammalia is of the same struc- ture as this, because it cannot be demonstrated to consist of cell and nucleus. If it be, as the blood-corpuscles of birds, reptiles, and fishes undoubtedly are, a nucleated cell, the obscurity of its nucleus is probably due to one of two causes; either it is so large as ac- curately to fill the cell, leaving no space between the outer surface of the one and the inner surface of the other, or it is so extremely minute as completely to elude our means of observation. Mr. Wharton Jones supposes that the mammalian red corpuscle is a nucleus, the cell of which had existed only in the earlier stages of development. Kolliker, on the other hand, afiirms that the nucleus disappears while the cell-wall is persistent. All that microscopic examination with the highest powers and the best instruments shows respecting the structure of this corpuscle is that it consists of a deUcate membrane, enclosing a semifluid material, impreg- nated with the proper colouring matter of the blood; and that this * Mr. Wharton Jones' papers in the Phil. Trans, for 1846, " On the blood- corpuscle considered in its different phases of development in the animal series, contain an account of a careful examination of these particles, and may be referred to with advantage by all who are engaged in the study of this most interestnig subject.