DIGESTION. [chap. xxiv. tliis effect, nothing more is necessary than to compare the inner sur- face of the great end of the stomach with any other part of its inner surface : the sound portions will appear soft, spongy, and granulated, and without distinct blood-vessels, opake and thick; while the others will appear smooth, thin, and more transparent, and the vessels will be seen ramifying in its substance; and upon squeezing the blood which they contain from the larger branches to the smaller, it will be found to pass out at the digested ends of the vessels, and to appear like drops on the inner surface." * Hunter remarked that solution of the stomach is very commonly found in fishes, which almost always die a violent death, and frequently during digestion Dr. Oarswell investigated this subject, and obtained results con- firmatory of the views of John Hunter. He killed rabbits and dogs during the digestive process, allowing them to lie for various periods after death. If examined four hours after death, he found that the solution had affected the mucous, submucous, and muscular tunics: when six hours had elapsed, the peritoneal coat was found softened, in addition to the others ; the stomach was consequently perforated, and the food passed through the opening and came in contact with the liver, spleen, diaphragm, and intestines, one or all of which ex- hibited the same kind of softening as that found in the stomach, at those places where the digested food touched the parts. In another series of experiments, where the animals were suffered to lie for a still longer period after being killed, perforation of the diaphragm or oesophagus had taken place, and the liquid part of the food had flowed into the cavity of the chest, causing digestion and softening of the pleura and of the lungs. J 3. The gastric juice.—From these various sources we derive the most ample evidence of the existence of a fluid secreted by the walls of the stomach during digestion, capable of exerting a reduc- ing or solvent influence upon food. This fluid is the gastric juice —the succus gastricus. It is of great importance to a correct theory of digestion to de- termine the precise composition of this fluid. Dr. Prout, in this country, in 1823, two years prior to the commencement of Beau- mont's experiments, had determined the existence of an acid fluid secreted during digestion, and had analysed it in the rabbit, hare, * Hunter's Animal (Economy, Owen's edition, p. 119. t Spallanzani confirmed Hunter's statements. t Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxiv. p. 262. See also an excellent deli- neation of this post mortem condition by Dr. Carswell, in his " Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease," art. Softening,