[chap. xxix. 390 RESPIRATION. mammalia), their superficial cells have their inequalities mutually adapted to each other, and even their walls fused together, so that the lohules would not remain distinct, were it not that their air-cells do not communicate across the interval. To convey a correct, and at the same time a simple, idea of the constitution of the pulmonary lohules, we must regard each as an elementary lung, perfect in itself as an arrangement of a respiratory membrane adapted to the aeration of the blood. First, the ter- minal bronchial tube pertaining to each lobule, loses its epithelium and muscular tunic at about one-eighth of an inch distant from the last air-cell to which it leads, and is thus reduced to basement tissue and yellow elastic fibres, which become blended into a single coat, the only membrane composing the tubes beyond, and the air- cells. The terminal bronchial tube, thus simplified, ramifies within the lobule, and its branches may be conveniently distin- guished from the bronchial tubes under the name of lobular pas- sages.* The lobular passages are wider than the terminal bronchia, and are remarkable (being honeycombed on their interior) for presenting a series of sacculi or cells on their wall. These ai-e the pulmonary air-cells. They form a number of bulgings of the wall, and are separated from one another by septa projecting inwards from the wall towards the axis of the passage (fig. 206). They each open separately into the lobular passages, and do not communicate with each other except through the passages. The terminations of the several lobular passages are air-cells coming up to the surface of the lobule, but some of the air-cells placed laterally on the passages, also contribute to form the surface of the lobule. The air-cells thus suiTOund and terminate each lobular passage — and the lobule consists of a number of lobular passages, associated by their dependence on a single terminal bronchial tube, and each clothed as it were, on its sides and at its end, with a honey-comb of air- cells, with orifices open towards the cavity of the passages. Con- tiguous cells of the same passage are separated by a simple septum or process of the wall, while the contiguous cells of neighbouring passages are separated by a septum, likewise simple, formed by the union of the walls of each. Where the septa spring from the wall of the passage, or in the angles where neighbouring cells unite, the wall is strengthened by a greater thickness of elastic tissue, which often has the form of arching bands of considerable strength in these situations, as well as around the orifices of the cells. Thus the lobular passages and the air-cells are formed of one tissue, and * Dr. W. Addison, Phil. Trans. 1840.