397 CHAP. XXIX.] MOVEMENTS OF THE THORAX. Fig. 209. are added other muscles, which may enlarge or diminish the area of the cavity, and thus act in respiration, but which are, for the most part, subservient to the general muscular movements of the body. The thorax is capable of enlargement in all its dimensions, in height, depth, width. Its vertical extent is increased by the eleva- tion of the ribs and the widening of the intercostal spaces, but chiefly by the descent of the diaphragm. Its autero-posterior and transverse diameters are increased by the elevation of the ribs, which carry forwards as well as raise the sternum (and the lower end of that bone usually a little more than the upper, in conse- quence of the greater length and obliquity of the lower sternal ribs), and which also seem to undergo a slight rotation on a line joining their two extremities, by which their middle part is raised and slightly removed from the median plane of the thorax. These are the principal modes provided in the mechanism of the thoracic walls, for its dila- tation in breathing. It should be added that during the advance of the sternum the arch of the ribs is widened, chiefly by a torsion of their carti- lages, and that the elastic rebound of those parts is a powerful agent in ex- piration. Observed Movements.— All the foregoing modes of enlargement of the Diagrams showing the extent of antcro-posterior movement in ordinary, and torced respiration in male and female. "The hack is supjiosed to he fixed, in order to throw forward tlie tlini'iy ipf in rlapn in movement as much as possible." The blaclc line indicates, hy tllUld^i. clCL 111 aeep lU- its two margins, the Umlts of orrf(««r^ inspiration and explra- anirnfii^n l->nf in r^^A^^^y^r In/orced t«j!/)!Va<ion, the body comes up to the dotted bpilciLlUU, UUt in Oramary line,whUe in/orcedcx/jimr ' indicated. inn, it recedes to the smallest space b'lom Dr. Hutchinson, breathing, there are con sidcrable difi^erences according to sex and age. In men an ordinary inspiration is attended with very slight elevation of the ribs, not more than one-twentieth of an inch, according to Dr. Hutchinson's