RESPIRATION. 408 [chap. XXIX. development of animal heat. Of course there must be limits to this result. MM. Andral and Gavarret have arrived at some remarkable results regarding the influence of sex and age on the exhalation of carbonic acid. They found that after the age of eight years, the male exhales much more than the female, the average quantity between the ages of 16 and 40 being double in the male. With respect to each sex at different ages, the male child between 8 and 15 exhales per hour, in the form of carbonic acid gas, 77 grains of carbon ; the female about 15 grains less. In the male, the quantity increases rather suddenly at puberty to 157 grains, and continues increasing up to 25, when it averages 191 grains per hour (or 9j ounces per day). It remains about stationary up to 40 years of age ; between 40 and 60, it averages only 155 grains ; and between 60 and 80, 141 grains per hour. In one man of 102, remarkably hale, it was only 91 grains; in another of 26, remarkably fine and muscular, it reached 217 grains. In the female, no great or corresponding increase takes place at puberty; and as long as menstruation is regular, the average exhalation of carbon is only 98 grains per hour. During pregnancy, however, and also at the period of the cessation of the menses, it is singular to observe that this quantity is quickly raised to 129 grains. Between 50 and 60, the average is 112 grains; between 60 and 80, 104 grains. In a woman of 82 it was only 92 grains per hour. Scharliug has to some extent corroborated these results. This increase in the male during the period of the. greatest activity and muscular vigour, and also the general higher standard in the male, and the decline in both sexes with age, is accordant with what we know of the rate and activity of the changes of nutrition under these several conditions. The varieties in the female are less easily explained, though obviously of great impor- tance. It may be here remarked, that Hutchinson and Bourgery have ascertained that the quantity of air breathed increases up to 30 or 35 years of age, then decreases slowly to 66, and very much in old age ; and also that it is less in females. Such are some natural circumstances modifying the quantity of carbonic acid exhaled. The following conclusions of Vierordt on the influence of the respiratory movements on the amount expired are interesting in themselves, and throw light on the theory of the respiratory function. He finds, that when the respirations are increased in frequency, more carbonic acid is exhaled, although from the much larger quantity of air breathed, the per centage of