CHAP. XXXIX.] HEAT AND RUT IN ANIMALS. 563 becomes very gre&t, or the ova are perfectly developed and capable of being impregnated. At tliis time, the stroma of the ovary is seen to be everywhere studded with ovisacs in various stages of develop- ment j the largest and most mature occupying the peripheral parts of the organ, while those containing matui^e ova, which are about to be discharged, form considerable prominences, projecting from the surface of the ovaiy.''* The discharge of ova from the ovary in animals, as in the human subject, occurs only at certain definite periods, which vary much in different animals. It is only at these times that the female animal will receive the male, and that the aptitude for conception exists. At such a time the animal is said to be "in heat" or "rut." In the bitch, this period occurs twice in the year, and lasts for about a fortnight each time; in the sheep and in the coAV, and in domestic animals generally, it occurs much oftener than in wild animals, and the periods of recuiTence ai'e not definite. If the ovary of an animal be examined at the time of " heat," it will be found turgid with blood, and several Graafian vesicles will be seen projecting from its surface, forming prominences, the most superficial portions of which appear quite thin, and almost ready to rupture and permit the escape of the contents of the follicle. At the same time, a more abundant secretion of mucus takes place from the walls of the vagina and contiguous parts. In a few instances, also, a bloody discharge has been detected in the vagina; but it must be distinctly borne in mind, that this is not a constant phenomenon. It only occm's in small quantity, and it never appears at each successive period of heat, while it is always accompanied with increased sexual desire. It may be considered as established, that in the human female, at or about the period of menstruation, a discharge of ova takes place; and at these times the ovaries are extremely turgid, and their vascularity is much increased. From very numerous observa- tions, it has been distinctly proved, that conception is more likely to take place a few days after menstruation than at any other period, a fact which has led Naegele to fix the period of delivery at nine months and eight days after the last menstrual discharge; while, in a few instances, the ovum has actually been seen within a very short time after its escape from the Graafian follicle. From these facts, most physiologists have been led to look upon * Dr. Barry calculates, that in the ovary of the cow, about the period of puberty, there are as many as two hundred millions, corresponding to a cubic inch of the stroma.