43 CHAP. XV PUNCTA LACRYMALIA. Fig. 129. use of tlie Meibomian glands is obviously to prevent adhesion of the lids; and their arrangement side by side, so as to form an even layer, adapts them to the surface of the globe, over which they are being constantly moved. They are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, which they resemble in every parti- cular except shape. At the inner canthus is a large-sized seba- ceous gland, covered with mucous membrane, and usually termed the caruncle (fig. 130). The conjunctiva of the lids presents on its free surface a minute papillary structure, probably connected with the exquisite sensibility which renders this mem- brane so valuable a covering to the eye. In the disease termed gramdar lids, these papillae are hypertrophied. To the sclerotic coat the con- junctiva is loosely attached by lax areolar tissue in which numerous tortuous vessels lie. The front of the eye is irrigated by the lacry- mal fluid secreted by the gland of that name. This gland is placed within the orbit, under cover of the external angular process of the frontal bone, and is about the size represented in fig. 128, 1. In appearance and structure it has much similarity to the salivary glands; its ultimate parts being vesicular. Its ducts, about seven in number, open on the conjunctiva, at its upper and outer part near its reflexion on to the globe, and are arranged in a row, so as to disperse their secretion over the mem- , ^/^,^^7\ mi 11 1- n ^""^ °^ Meibomian brane (fig. 128, a), ihe constant motion or gknds of a Fcetus of five and fir* ii TjMi- n ,^ months:—a. Base- the upper lid facilitates the distribution or the ment membrane of the folli- cles, b. Epithelium consti- tuting the secretion, c. Orifice of the common duct. —From a specimen prepared by Dr. Goodfellow. Magn. 30 diameters. fluid, which thus streams continually over the front of the eye, and carries off" any extra- neous particles that may have found their way into it. The fluid is then conducted into the nostril through a singular system of channels, lined by mucous membrane, con- tinuous between that of the eye and nose. Near the inner end of the border of each tarsus there is an orifice, a little prominent, and projecting slightly backwards, so as not to be obstructed when the lids are closed. These are the puncta lacrymalia (figs. 128 and 130). They lead by two ducts {canalicwli), into the lacrymal sac, a cavity formed by the lacrymal and superior maxillary bones, completed by fibrous membrane. This is continued, under the name of nasal