63 CHAPTER XVIII. OP HEARING. THE ORGAN OF HEARING. ITS DEVELOPEMENT IN THE ANI- MAL SERIES. THE EXTERNAL EAR. THE TYMPANUM. THE LABYRINTH. THE FUNCTIONS OF THESE PARTS. It is by the sense of hearing that the mind takes cognizance of those oscillations of elastic matter which give rise to the phenomena of sound. The communication of these oscillations to the ear may take place through the air, or through the intervention of some solid conductor, brought into immediate connexion with the organ of hearing. The essential part of the organ of hearing is a sac, containing fluid, upon which the nerve of hearing is freely distributed: this sac being in connexion with the cranial parietes. This is repre- sented in the human subject by that small cavity which is excavated in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, called the vestibule. This, and three semi-circular canals, with a spirally disposed canal, divided by a partition, constituting the cochlea, form the labyrinth. External to this, and situate between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bones is a cavity, the tympanum, which in front further communicates very freely with the cavity of the throat through an open channel, the Eustachian tube, whereby air has a free access into the tympanum. This cavity is closed on the outside by a membrane (membrana tympani) which extends over its external orifice as over a drum. A communication is established between the membrane and the inner wall of the tympanum, by a chain of small bones which extends from the one to the other. These are the ossicles of the ear. The outer bone of the chain is intimately attached to the membrana tympani, and the inner one to a mem- brane which closes the vestibule on the outside. The three bones which compose the chain are articulated by moveable joints, and are moved by small muscles, which are thus enabled to regulate the tension of the membrana tympani, as well as of the membrane of the vestibule. Externally is an apparatus for collecting sounds and con- ducting them to the tympanum. Developement of the Organ of Hearing in the Animal Series.—Tlierc is no organ in the body in which Ave find a more remarkable gradation of devclope-