CHAP. xxxiir.J PASSAGE OF BILE INTO DUCTS. liver. The cells have been nearly destroyed 479 by the action of F!ij. -i.iO. m KaiTOwest portimis of tliu duct, liiied by ductal (■pitlielium, showing their connection witli Ihc cell-con- taining networli. Close to the narrow ducts, a venous capillary and a small brancli of the artery are represented in section. The liver cells have been destroyed by the mode of prepara- tion. From an nninjected specimen of the human liver, magnified 215 diameters, after Dr. Beale. reagents in preparing the specimen. The epitbelial cells which line these minute ducts approach to the tesselated variety. They are, for the most part, round or oval granular cells, some of them about the joVo*^ °^ ^^^^^ diameter, while others are less. They present very similar characters in the different ani- mals which we have examined, and the same general arrangement of the minute ducts has been shown to occur in birds, reptiles, and fishes, with certain unim- portant modifications. The epithelium of the ducts does not pass by gradations into the secreting epi- thelium, but terminates at the point where the latter commences. The nar- rowing of the excretory portion of the tube is met with in many other glands, but in none is there a more striking contrast between the excretory and secreting portions of the gland, or between the epithelium lining the ducts and that by which the secretion is formed, than in the liver. Of the Passage of the Bile into the Ducts.—If the view of the anatomy of the liver which Ave have described be correct, the secreting cells at the surface of the lobule are those which take the most active part in the secretion. These are the cells which the portal blood first reaches; and it is in this situation that the cells first show an increased quantity of oil globules within them in cases of fatty degeneration. The bile is not formed in the central part of the lobule and transmitted from cell to cell, as has been described by some authorities, but the bile formed by each indi- vidual cell escapes through the interstices between the cells until it reaches the duct. If it be urged as an objection to this view, that no visible interstices exist between the cells, it may be answered, that injection can be made to flow by these channels in a direction the reverse of that which the bile naturally takes, and, therefore, under the greatest disadvantage. There can then be no obstacle to the passage of the bile towards the ducts: moreover, the great changes in bulk which we know the liver cells so readily undergo, will readily account for the close contact in which they are often observed to lie.