270 ABSORPTION. [chap. XXVI. injected into the cavities or interstices of the body may be gra- dually taken up and removed, as we see in cases of emphysema, of ecchymosis, of dropsy, of inflammatory products, &c. An absorption of the tissues themselves is also constantly going on, as a necessary part of their nutrition—the old materials being taken away when no longer suited for the purposes of life. When the effete matters of the tissues are thrown off from the surface of the body, or from glands, which are, in fact, a portion of that surface, they are said to be secreted; when they re-enter the circulation for a time they may be rightly said to be absorbed. In certain cases, entire organs waste when the term of their usefulness has expired, e. g.^ the mammary and spermatic glands, and all the organs, even the bones, tend to atrophy in advancing life. Again, periodical absorption of the materials of certain organs occurs, as in the testes of birds and other animals after the annual season of impregnation, but perhaps the most remarkable example of absorption belonging to this head, is that of the fat which is stored up in large quantities in the bodies of hybernating animals, and gradually disappears during the winter torpor, probably to furnish materials for the generation of warmth. These general observations will suffice to show the importance of the subject of absorption. We are led to it, at the present stage, by having to consider the mode in which the materials introduced into the alimentary cavities are conveyed thence to mingle with and form part of the common mass of the circulating fluid. But we may conveniently treat of the process in general in the present chapter. The coats of the intestine are found to contain two sets of vessels, one through which blood circulates, from arteries to veins through the capillary network, the other containing a milky or transparent fluid, chyle or lymph, which finally reaches the blood. Both of these kinds of vessels are the agents of absorption, and both probably share in receiving the alimentary matters through tlie mucous lining of the canal, but in the present chapter the structure of the latter will be chiefly considered, and that of the blood-vessels deferred. Together with the lacteals, the lymphatics will be also described. The lacteals and lymphatics together form one system of vessels, which takes its rise in the midst of various organs of the body, and conveys a fluid into the veins near their termination in the heart. The lacteals constitute that portion of this great system which originates in the digestive mucous membrane, and they are