^'-^0 DiaESTION. [cMAP. XXV. passing through the former channel must permeate a totally distinct system of vessels, namely, the lacteal system, to be conveyed to the su2)erior vena cava and to the right auricle, where, having mingled with the blood coming from the liver, both are transmitted by the right ventricle to the lungs. And it woiild seem that the object of the two modes of ab- sorption at the intestine, and of the two paths of transmission from the intestine to the centre of the circulation, is to keep separate, up to a certain point, two kinds of material resulting from the digestion of the food. And probably the reason why one kind of product is reserved to pass through the intricate capillary plexuses of the vascular system of the liver, to the exclusion of the other, is because it contains material out of which the liver may elaborate bile; whilst the other material is transmitted through a less complicated series of channels more directly to the lungs. 0/ the offices of the Pancreas and Liver in Digestion.—The pre- sence of two such great glands as the pancreas and the liver existing in a large portion of the animal kingdom at the upper part of the intestinal canal, and pouring their secreted fluid into it, obviously denotes a connexion between the fluids secreted by these glands, and the changes which the food undergoes in this part of the intestine. As the function of the pancreas has been determined with greater accuracy than that of the liver, it will be more convenient to con- sider it first. Function of the Pancreas in Digestion.'—The presence of the pancreas is constant, at least, in the vertebrate classes. It is present in all the mammalia—it is, perhaps, better deve- loped in carnivora than herbivora; in all it is in intimate relation with the upper part of the small intestine into which it pours its secretion by one or two ducts. In some, as in man, the pancreatic duct and the common choledoch duct open into the duodenum at the same place; in others they open at some distance from each other (as much as sixteen or seventeen inches in the rabbit) but in all they open into the same portion of the intestinal canal ; and the pancreatic duct, always below the biliary duct, when they do not open together. Some doubt exists as regards its presence in fishes. In rays and sharks a solid gland exists corresponding to the pancreas ; and in osseous fishes a similar gland has recently been discovered by Stannius M^hich appears to be its analogue.* The secretion of the pancreas has some resemblance to saliva. It Mailer's Archiv., 1849.