THE CIllCULATIOiN OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. These nerves form by their frequent anastomosis a plexus called the cardiac plexus. It is situated upon the aorta and pulmonary artery, just as they have issued from their respective ventricles, and is commonly described as consisting of two portions—the superficial cardiac plexus, which corresponds to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, and lies in front of the right branch of the pulmonary artery ; and the deep cardiac pilexus, which is much the larger portion, and lies behind the arch of the aorta between it and the bifurcation of the trachea. To the formation of these plexuses, branches derived from the vagus and the sympathetic on both sides contribute. The greatest part of the nerves which emanate from these plexus entwine around and accompany the right and left coronary arteries, forming the anterior and posterior coronary plexuses. From these, nerves pass to the auricles and ventricles, but chiefly to the latter. A ganglion, described first by Wrisberg, and called after, him ganglion cardiacum Wrishergii, is generally found in front of the left auricle, and behind the aorta. Scarpa has also described gangliform enlargements of the nerves on the anterior surface of the ventricles, to one of which, situated on the anterior surface of the horse's heart, half-way down the anterior groove, he refers under the name of " cardiaci sinistri ganglion insigne." * It is probable, however, that none of these latter enlargements are truly ganglionic in their nature. Eemak describes numerous microscopic ganglia on the nerves of the heart of the calf. We have seen some of these small ganglia upon the surface of the auricles in the calfs heart, although we have not succeeded in detecting them on the surface of the ven- tricles, nor in the substance of the septum, as delineated by Remak. We can vouch for the truly ganglionic nature of those which we have seen from the unequivocal existence of vesicular matter in them.f Some elaborate dissections of the nerves of the heart have lately been made by Dr. Eobert Lee,J from which it appears that the heart is more largely supplied with nerves than had been hitherto sup- posed, and that a larger number go directly to the muscular structure of the heart, independently of the arteries, than had been admitted by previous anatomists. Upon these nerves numerous * Scarpa, Tabula Anatomiccc. Ticin. 1794. Tab. vii. fig. 1. t Rcmak, Neuiologischen Erlauterungcn. Mullcr's Archiv. 1844. Tafcl xii. 1 Phil. Trans. 1849.