558 FEMALE OllGANS OF GENERATION, [cHAP. xxxvui. inches iu length. Mr. Rainey has shown that the round Hgament of the uterus contains numerous striped muscular fibres. He de- scribes the round ligament as arising by " thin fasciculi of ten- dinous fibres; the inner one from the tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis near the symphysis pubis, the middle one from the superior column of the external abdominal ring near to its upper part, and the external fasciculus from the inferior column of the ring just above Gimbernat's ligament." The fibres pass backwards and outwards, soon become fleshy, unite to form a rounded cord which runs between the layers of peritoneum forming the broad ligament of the uterus, and is in- serted into the upper and anterior part of the uterus. The action of these fibres would be to di-aw the uterus forwards and thus elongate the vagina.* Vagina, and accessory Female Organs of Generation.—The vagina consists of an external or fibrous layer, and a muscular coat. It is lined by mucous membrane. The fibrous tissue of the external coat contains many fibres of the yellow elastic element, and a large net-work of vessels, with plexuses of veins which form an erectile tissue. The muscular fibres run partly in a longitudinal direction, and are partly arranged in transverse bundles which encircle the vagina. The mucous membrane is of a pale reddish colour, thrown into many small, fij'm, prominent folds, columnce rugarum, separated by fissures. The epithelium of the vagina is very large, and of the scaly variety. These cells are almost always present in the lu'iue of females. The nucleus is usually seen very distinctly, and is of an oval form. They present examples of the largest epithelial cells in the body. Close to the external orifice, the mucous mem- brane forms a re-duplication, termed the hymen, which extends across the posterior part of the opening. There are two small glands, the glands of Bartholini, in thej female, which correspond to Cowper's glands in the male. They are small branched glands, the ultimate vesicles of which are lined by tcssclated epithelium. They appear to secrete a clear yellowisli thick mucus. * The corpora cavernosa of the clitoris correspond in structure to those of the penis of the male, but are of very small size. Valen- tin has described helieiue arteries, as iu the penis. In the mucous membrane of the external female genital organs, are numerous * Phil. Trans. 1850, part ii. p. 515.