•1-^^ INNERVATION. [chap. xix. the sympathetic ; and, as has been asserted by a few anatomists, with the sixth nerve. Function of the third nerve.^ Proceeding according to the method indicated at page 303, voL i., we deduce the function of this nerve, from its anatomy in man, from its anatomy in animals, from experi- ments, and from pathological observation. From its anatomy in man we judge this nerve to be a motor nerve, for it is distributed entirely to muscles. These muscles are, in addition to the elevator of the upper eyelid, those upon which the principal movements of the eyeball depend, indeed, all the muscles of that organ, except the superior oblique and the external rectus. In addition to these there can be no doubt that the third nerve sends filaments to the muscular apparatus within the eye by the short root of the ophthalmic ganglion, which, after passing through that ganglion, escapes from it under the form of ciliary nerves, which may be traced to the ciliary muscle and to the iris. It is, therefore, the principal motor nerve of the eyeball, regulating all the movements of that organ, excepting those which depend on the external rectus and superior oblique muscles; and it also probably excites the movements of the iris and of the other muscular fibres within the eye. Upon this latter point, however, anatomy speaks less positively, from the fact that other nerves are distribu- ted to the iris besides those derived from the third. The distribution of the third nerve, in the inferior animals, leads to the same conclusion respecting its function, as that which we have deduced from human anatomy. In all the mammalia it is distributed to the same muscles of the eyeball as in man, and to the iris. In birds a similar arrangement exists, and in some species of this class we observe a remarkable developement of that branch which is distributed to the iris in direct relation with the muscular activity of that structure. In the falcons and eagles, according to Desmoullns, the third nerve is absolutely as large as in man, and this great size is due to the developement of the branch which is distributed to the iris and ciliary muscle. Experiments on this nerve are difficult of execution, and their results are therefore not free from complication; but such as have been obtained entirely confirm the view of its function which ana- tomy suggests. These results, as derived from the experiments of Eumbold and Fowler, of Mayo, Valentin, and others, may be summed up as toilows: The application of the galvanic current to the nerve causes a con- vulsive contraction of the principal muscles of the globe, and of the