598 DEVELOPMENT [chap. XLII. by the external angular processes of the frontal, the small wings of the sphenoid, and the frontal hone; its hcemal arch by the tympanic portion of the temporal bone, and by the articular and dental portion of the inferior maxilla. The body of the rhinencephalic or nasal vertebra is represented by the vomer; its neural arch by the ossa plana of the ethmoid, and by the nasal bones; its haemal arch, by the palatine, pterygoid, and malar bones, by the squamous and zygomatic portions of the temporal bones, and by the superior maxillary and intermaxillary bones. In thus briefly describing the manner in which the cranial vertebrae are constructed, we feel great regret that our limited space will not permit us to enter more at length into the beautiful and well-known discoveries of Professor Owen in this department. We cannot too strongly recommend the reader to consult upon this important subject, Professor Owen's "Archetype Skeleton,'' and his " Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton." Development of the Face and Visceral Arches.—The %dsceral cavity in the upper part of the embryo, at a very early stage of develop- ment, is bounded above by the cerebral capsule; and below, and at the sides, by the anterior visceral arch. Reichert has shown that this arch becomes bent upon itself, and fi-om it are formed above the angle, the superior, and below the angle the inferior, maxillary apparatus. The superior maxilla grows upwards, and unites with a promi- nence which is seen in the centre of the forehead, the frontal pro- cess of Von Baer — a space being left between the two superior maxiUse, Avhich becomes the nasal cavity. Beneath this, the two bones are connected together by the partition which forms the palate, and which does not appear for some time. In animals, besides the maxillary bones, there are a pair of narrow bones between them, extending from the interval between the lower portion of the nasal, and the ascending process of the superior maxilla. These are the intermaxillary bones, which exist in the hu- man foetus in a rudimentary condition. They appear to be formed partly from the nasal process of the forehead, and partly from a por- tion of blastema which is detached from the lower jaw, to which Reichert gives the name of intermaxillary rudiment. In man this bone is not developed; but in fishes and amphibia it contains teeth. The intermaxillary bones differ, therefore, in their origin, from the maxillee, and are probably developed fr-om centres inde- pendently of the latter. In the monstrosity familiar to us as hare- lip, the superior maxillse and palate bones of opposite sides do not