CUAP. XVIII.] 67 THE EXTERNAL EAR. anterior curved extreraity of the helix. The groove of the helix is continued into the upper division, and the auditory canal leads from the front and deepest part of the lower division, where it is over- hung- hy the tragus and its protective tuft of hairs. The cartilage of the pinna consists of one principal piece, from which that of the tragus and antitragus is separated by a fissure filled up by fibrous membrane. It is very flexible, and elastic, has a yellowish colour, and belongs to the same category as the cartilages of the ala3 nasi, &c. Ligamentous fibres bind the concha behind and above, and the tragus in front to the bone and fascia in the neighbourhood. A few muscular fibres passing between different parts of the auricle, serve to impress upon them movements, but so slight as to be hardly worthy of note. These fibres are found externally on the tragus, the antitragus, the upper end of the helix, and behind on the concha. The whole of the cartilaginous part of the ear is rendered moveable by three muscles, the superior and anterior auris, arising from the epicranial aponeurosis, and converging to the concha and helix, and the posterior auris, passing between the mastoid process and concha. The auditory canal passes from the concha inwards for about an inch, or rather more. It inclines a little forwards, and is slightly bowed, so as to be higher near the middle than at either end. Its width does not equal its height, and it is altogether narrower in the middle. The membrana tympani, which terminates it, is placed obliquely in consequence of the lower side of the meatus being longer than the upper. The canal consists of two parts, a cartilaginous and fibrous one, and an osseous. To form the first, the cartilage of the concha and tragus is prolonged inwards as far as the auditory process of the temporal bone, and constitutes a tube imperfect at the upper and back part, where its deficiency is supplied by fibrous membrane. This cartilage is rendered still further moveable by partial slits in a vertical direction (incisurce Santorini). Muscular fibres are described by some to exist in the meatus, which, accord- ing to Haller, becomes shortened by their contraction. The osseous part of the auditory canal consists in the foetus of a ring of bone, to which the membrana tympani is attached {tympanic ring of the tem- poral bone). In the adult, it is nearly three-quarters of an inch long, and gives the meatus the form and direction already de scribed. The skin of the external ear is delicate, and well supplied with yessels and nerves. The orifice of the meatus, besides being con- cealed behind the tragus is defended by hairs, and a close arrange- ment of ceruminous glands, which furnish an abundant secretion, F 2