406 RESPIRATION. [chap. xxix. The general average of the results of Valentin and Brunner, and Vierordt, all of which were performed on adult males, may be accepted for that age and sex, viz., 4-35 parts of carbonic acid in 100 parts of expired air ; or deducting the small quantity of car- bonic acid contained in the air when inspired, we may conclude that 4-30 parts per cent, by volume of that gas are derived from the lungs at each ordinary expiration. Taking, as before, 30 cubic inches as the volume of each expiration, the actual quantity of carbonic acid in each will be 1-29 cubic inches=about 23 cubic inches per minute=about 1393 cubic inches per hour=about 27,864 cubic inches, or 16-1 cubic feet per day. In this last quantity of carbonic acid there are about seven and a half ounces by weight of carbon. A great variety of circumstances no doubt modify the activity with which carbonic acid is formed in the system, and eliminated from it; some of these are very worthy of notice. Digestion has been observed to be attended with an increased exhalation of it in many of the lower animals; and Scharling, Valentin, and Vierordt have i-ecently noted the same fact with great accuracy in Man. Thus, one hour after a midday meal, Vierordt found that his pulse was quickened by 15, his respiration by 1, the volume of the expired air was slightly increased, nearly 50 per cent, more of air, and 2^ cubic inches more of carbonic acid were expired in one minute, and the per centage of carbonic acid in the expired air was also augmented in a very trifling degree. If the meal were omitted these results did not occur. On the other hvLwd.^ fasting, especially if prolonged, diminishes the exhalation. Particular substances taken into the blood, exert a very remark- able influence upon the development of carbonic acid in the system^ Dr. Prout long since observed a considerable diminution under alcohol, particularly if taken on an empty stomach ; and his con- clusions have been fully confirmed by Vierordt and Bockei*. The former found that, having taken more than half a bottle of wine, the carbonic acid fell in a quarter of an hour from 4*54 to 4*01 per cent, of the expired air; i. e., by about one-ninth of its whole quantity ; and this lasted for two hours. In addition to this, the latter author found that, under the same influence, the whole con- stituents of the urine are diminished in amount. Dr. Prout states that a dose of strong tea likewise lessens the exhalation of carbonic acid. Since the introduction of ether and chloroform as anajsthetics in the practice of surgery, their mode of action has been much inves-