446 VOICE. [chap. XXXI. contracted to a minimuin, aud tlie latter increased to its largest size. The sounds just enumerated are the vowel sounds of continental languages, and they can all be prolonged for a time limited only by the passage of the air through the vocal apparatus. The Eng- lish i may be looked upon as a diphthongal sound, and like the true diphthongs cannot be prolonged like a continued vowel sound. The diphthongal sounds appear to be produced by causing one par- ticular vowel sound to pass into another with a considerable degree of rapidity—thus, ou is formed by the transition of the a in far to the 00 in cool. In the pronunciation of consonants, the soft palate, the tongue and lips more especially, take part; and in order to produce many of the sounds, it is necessary that the air shotJd be forced through the passages suddenly, and often with a considerable degree of force, while others can be produced as continuous sounds like the vowels; hence the divisions into explosive and cordinuous consonants. The former class includes the b, p, d, t, g, k,—the latter, the V, f, 1, m, n, r, the sibilant consonants s and z, and the Greek 6 [theta) th, which like sh, is a perfectly simple sound, and might be represented by one letter. The manner in which these sounds are produced by the alteration of the position of the organs con- cerned in the production of speech can be studied by every one in his owa. person; but for a full description of the position of the several parts concerned in producing them, the reader is re- ferred to the works enumerated at the end of the present chapter.* * For information uj)on subjects treated of in the present chapter, the stu- dent is referred to the following works:—Dissertatio de Loquela, 1700 ; Eev. Mr. Willis in the "Cambridge Philosophical Transactions," vol. iv., 1832; Lauth, "Mem. de I'Academie Koyale de M6decine," 1835 ; J. MliUer, "Elements of Physiology," translated byDr. Baly ; Articles, "Larynx" and "Voice," by Mr. Bishop, in the Cyclopajdia of Anatomy aud Physiology.