CHAP. XXV.] USE OF THE BILE. 259 which has no parallel in the animal ceconomy. It is more proba- ble, assuming this view to be correct, that the portion of the bile absorbed is taken up by the lacteals ; and if so, we should have an additional indication that only a part of the bile re-enters the cir- culation, for if the colouring matter were absorbed by the lacteals it would be readily detected in the chyle. There are some striking facts which denote a connection be- tween the office of the liver and the calorifacient and respiratory function. Thus, in the boa, although the liver is large, and no doubt secretes bile freely, the excrements contain no trace of bile. In this case, therefore, it must undergo complete decomposition in the intestine, or be entirely absorbed. In carnivorous animals, whose respiratory function is very active, little or no bile is found in the excrements; while in those of the herbivora, which lead less active lives, and whose food is more combustible in its nature, the elements of the bile are present in considerable quantity. According to this view, the bile would be in part excrementitious and carried oflf in the fajces ; and in part recrementitious, inasmuch as by its absorption into the blood it serves to feed a process highly important to general nutrition, namely, that of animal heat. Still there seem strong grounds for supposing that it must serve yet another purpose; else why should the intestinal blood charged with some of the combustible materials derived by absorption from the digested food be subjected to the action of the liver in order to yield a complex fluid, which is poured into the intestinal canal. In truth, we can find no explanation of this remarkable course of the intestinal venous blood, nor of the situation at which the secreted fluid, the bile, is discharged from the liver, but in the hypo- thesis that the bile has some function to perform in the intestinal canal. This leads us to enquire whether the bile has any power of re- ducing certain elements of food which have been only partially, or not at all dissolved in the stomach. We have as yet no satisfactory observations which lead to any positive conclusion upon this point. A series of careful experi- ments as to the influence of bile upon alimentary matters is much needed. Hunefeld's experiments * on this subject tend to establish the general fact that fibrinous and albuminous matters do seem to be dissolved under its influence at a temperature equal, or nearly so, to that of the blood. The connection of a gall-bladder with the liver in most animals * Quoted in Valentin, Physiologic, b. i. p. 349.