440 VOICE. [chap, XXXI. active supporters of the explanation of tlie formation of voice, on the principle of wind-instruments. He likened the larynx to a bird-call, and referred the exact seat of the development of sound to the air contained in the ventricles of the larynx, which would be affected by the upward current from the trachea, just as the air in the cavity of the bird-call is by the current from the mouth. But, to pass over the argument, that it is very doubtful whether the bird-call can be referred exclusively to the class of wind-instru- ments, M. Savart's views are decidedly negatived, by the fact that in the class of ruminants the superior or false vocal ligaments are absent, and, consequently, the ventricle of the larynx. Ferrein was the first to show by experiment, that vibration of the vocal chords was the essential cause of voice. His experiments, pubhshed in 1741, were performed on the dead larynx. By them he was enabled to show, that the note varied according to the length and tension of the vocal chords, the same laws regiilating the production of sound by these chords as by strings which are thrown into sonorous vibrations by currents of air. The most important experiments upon the production of vocal sounds are those of Professor J. Miiller of Berlin, and of Professor Willis of Cambridge. Miiller investigated the action of mem- branous bands, or of tongues formed of caoutchouc, in generating sound under the influence of a current of air. The human organ of voice is imitated by a tube, capable of being varied in length; to one end of this, are applied two membranous vibrating tongues, attached to the wall of the tube, but separated from each other by a chink, through which passes the current of air necessary for throwing them into sonorous ^dbrations. Willis employed a similar instrument. The results of these experiments may be thus briefly stated— 1st. That elastic bands, forming the lateral boundaries of a chink, through which a current of air is driven by a pair of bellows, may be thrown into vibrations so as to produce sounds which resemble those of the human voice. 2nd. That for such vocahzation it is necessary that these bands should have, in addition to a certain degree of tension, a particular position likewise. This, which is called by Willis the vocalizing position, consists in the parallelism of the margins of the bands. In the quiescent state, dm-ing breathing, the Hps of the glottis arc inclined from each other; but in the vocalizing position, or that necessary for the production of voice, they become parallel. In the former condition, the glottis is a triangular space, with divergent I