448 SECliETION. [chap. XXXII. ^vhicli escape iu tlic form of fjeces; and, allied to these, is the carbonic acid, which is eliminated, without the intervention of a true secreting tissue, directly from the capillaries of the lungs. If these matters were retained, they would accumulate in the blood and tissues, and prove, sooner or later, incompatible with life; and even a simple delay or retardation in the process of their removal, to whatever cause it may be attributable, must be attended with grave consequences to health. It is, therefore, impossible to over- estimate the importance of distinguishing these products from other secretions, and of acquiring the habit of considering them under one common head. They are known as the eoscrementitious secretions, or, simply as excretions. The kidneys are organs through which a large portion of the blood is constantly flowing, and in which the general mass of that fluid becomes so far purified as to be freed from certain waste ma- terials which have just been thrown into it by the muscular and other tissues. The blood which leaves the kidneys, though ren- dered venous by the nutrition of the glandular tissue itself, is more free than before to receive the refuse of the other parts. Hence the kidneys must be regarded as a depui'ating organ, subser\dent to the functions of other parts of the frame. To prove this, it is only necessary to extirpate the kidneys from an animal, or to see their function arrested by disease : in either case, the blood and tissues become more and more loaded by the urinary matters which continue to be formed in the body, and Avhich should have been eliminated as soon as formed by the extirpated or diseased organs. So essential, indeed, to animal life, is this excretion of nitrogenised matters, resulting from the waste of the nitrogenous tissues, that it may be safely said to be universally present, and to have a kidney, or analogous organ, assigned to it, wherever animals exist having an arrangement of dilferent and mutually dependent parts, on such a scale as to render the direct expulsion of the waste materials at the points where they are formed impossible. The principal excretions may be thus enumerated :—1. Carbonic acid gas, formed by the action of the oxygen upon carbon, and separated by the lungs; its accumulation in the blood is very rapidly fatal to life. 2. Urea, uric acid (in herbivorous animals hippuric acid), kreatine, and kreatinine: all nitrogenized principles of definite composition, resulting principally from the waste of the tissues, and eliminated by the kidneys ; their retention in the blood is soon, but less rapidly, fatal. 3. Various saline matters, separated by the kidneys and skin. 4. Lactic acid, principally by the skin.