CHAP. XXII.] 151 CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD. In the lower Invertehruta digestion becomes very simple. The intestine and stomach become much reduced in size ; and in some the digestive apparatus con- sists only of a simjile bag, as in the freshwater polyps, liaving the same orifice of entrance and exit; or, of a series of sacs or bags, with certain tubular appendages, as in the Asterias, and in the Actinia; in these latter animals one orifice answers equally for the introduction of the food, and for the discharge of the superfluous matters. In Medusae, the oral aperture leads to a capacious cavity or stomach, from which certain canals carry the nutritious material into the different parts of the body, these canals being probably analogous to the circulating systems of the higher animals. In some polyps, the Bryozoa, as shewn by Dr. Arthur Farre, a portion of the stomach exhibits great muscular power, and seems to perform the function of a gizzard. We shall find it convenient to examine the function of digestion by tracing it tlirough the various stages, as above enumerated, de- scribing the mechanism of each of the subordinate processes, and the change which each of them is capable of effecting in the food. Before we enter upon these points, we must make some remarks upon the nature and quantity of the food suitable for the nourishment of man. It has been already remarked at a former page (pp. 43, 44, vol. i.) that no food is suitable for the support of the human frame in a healthy state, but that which contains the great staminal principles, which are the chief constituents of the body. And the same re- mark applies with equal force to the carnivorous, and probably to the herbivorous classes of animals. The food of the lower animals varies to a remarkable extent. But nearly, if not entirely, throughout the series, organized matter, either vegetable or animal, forms the proper nutrient material. It is pro- bable that some of the lowest creatures enjoy the power of assimi- lating inorganic matter, and thus become the instruments of making the inorganic substances indirectly subservient to the nutrition of the higher animals. The elements of nutrition for man, and the higher classes of ani- mals, exist in the vegetable as well as in the animal kingdom. But some animals are so constituted, that in a state of nature, they sub- sist only on the flesh of other animals; while others live only upon vegetable food. Some carnivorous animals, however, may, in a state of domestication, be brought to eat vegetable food; but it rarely, if ever, happens that the herbivora can be taught to eat animal food M an is, by nature, a truly omnivorous animal; and a certain admix- ture of animal and vegetable food is known, by experience, to be that which is most conducive to his healthy nourishment. The classification of food which Dr. Prout has adopted, appears