[chap. XXVI, ABSORPTION. 274 seem to do by their vital contractility. As the contents advance the vessels diminish in diameter. It is usual to find the lymphatics empty and collapsed some time after death. The lymphatic glands are, for the most part, flattish oval bodies, of firm consistence and light colour, situated in the course of the lymphatic and lacteal vessels, these vessels being styled afferent as they enter the gland, and efferent as they leave it. The glands vary from the size of a millet-seed to that of an almond. They usually lie loosely in the areolar texture, well protected from injury by their mobility, and if near the surface of the body, by the disposition of the neighbouring bones or muscles. They have a firm but delicate proper capsule, which is continuous witli the outer coat of the vessels, and which sends processes inwards upon the bloodvessels and lymphatics which penetrate the glands. The general structure of these glands has long been known, being well displayed by mercurial injections (fig. 170, A). This metal, when thrown into an afferent vessel, shows that this divides into minute branches, most of which spread out over the gland before entering it, and that the efferent vessels have a similar arrangement on the opposite side. The mercury readily fills the entire gland, and escapes by the efferent vessels. The surface of the gland, when occupied by mercury, exhibits either a very close plexus of tortuous minute vessels, or else a congeiies of ajiparent cells ; and while there has been no doubt of the continuity of the internal tracts of the gland with both the afferent and efferent vessels, the question has been discussed, whether these tracts are simply convolutions of tubes, or cellular lateral offsets from channels traversing the gland in a more direct course. Both of these views may possibly be true in different cases, or probably the convoluted vessels of the gland may be themselves dilated at intervals into cells which, from their mode of package, may simulate detached cavities, as in the well known arrangement of the vesiculai seminales. In con- firmation of this last view it may be observed, that the tracts of the gland are usually more capacious than the ramifications of the afferent and efferent vessels which immediately communicate with them. A more important question concerns the changes in the tissues forming the walls of the afferent vessels on their entrance into the gland, and this has been ably illustrated by Professor Goodsir. He describes the outer areolar coat as passing to form the capsule of the gland, and the proper coat to become extremely thin, especially