INNERVATION. [chap. xx. fever often go together, because the marsh poison which gives rise to the one, may Hkewise excite the other. Asthma, which has occurred once, is easily reproduced by irregularities of diet, and consequent disturbance of digestion; and the frequent recurrence of the asthmatic paroxysm causes the dilated state of the air-passages and air-cells of the lungs, the dilatation of the right cavities of the heart, and the general displacement of that organ, which are invariably present in persons who have long been subject to this disease. Vomiting may be excited by irritation of the central or the peripheral ex- tremity of this nerve. In disease at the base of the brain, vomiting is frequently an early symptom, being caused by irritation of the central extremity of the vagus. In sea-sickness the cerebral ex- tremity of the nerve is irritated by the disturbance of the circu- lation in the cranium. By introducing emetic substances into the stomach, the vomiting is produced by the irritation of the peri- pheral extremity. Many of the actions in which the vagus nerve is concerned are of the physical kind. Of these, cesopliageal deglutition is the most marked. The closure of the glottis upon the application of any stimulus to its mucous membrane is another example of the same nature. But in both these instances and in all the movements with which this nerve has to do, sensation accompanies the act. In oesophageal deglutition, there is less sensation than in the other movements, but it is, nevertheless, present, particularly in case of any impediment being oifered to the passage of the food. With reference to the movements of the glottis, it is interesting to remark, that whilst the will exercises a minuteness of control over them which is only surpassed by the power which it has over those of the fingers, it is only closure of the glottis which is caused by a physical stimulus. The obvious explanation of this is derived from the great prepon- derance of the constrictor over the dilator muscles of the glottis. On what grounds Dr. M. Hall asserts that " the vagus nerve is certainly the least sentient of any in the class vertebrata,"* we are at a loss to discover. We do not hesitate to affirm that every act of an excitor kind, in which it is concerned, is accompanied by sensation, which in some is exquisite, in others feeble. Nor can we derive, either from the anatomy or physiology of this nerve, any confirmation to his hypothesis of a special series of excitor and motor nerves. It is well known that continued stimulation of the pharyngeal portion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve upon the fauces will produce the feeling of * The whole passage is " This nerve (the vagus) is certainly the least sentient, and the 7nost purely excitor, of any in the class vertehrata."—New Memoir on the Nervous System, Adv. p. ix.