CHAP. XXXVIII.] NERVES OF THE UTEKUS. 657 , rous glandnlar follicles, much resembling the follicles of Lieber- ! kiihn, in the intestine. These follicles are lined with cylindrical epithelium. They appear to form a little whitish mucous secretion. I In pregnancy, these glands are enormously developed; and we shall consider the changes taking place in their structure, when describing the alteration which takes place in the mucous mem- brane of the uterus after conception. The mucous membrane of the cervix uteri is gathered into deep folds, forming rugce, between which are seen secondary rugte, with a few follicles opening between them. These rugae were described by the older anato- mists, under the terms plicce palmatce, arbor vitce uterinus, etc. In the mucous membrane of the neck of the uterus, are situated the so called glandula;, or ovula Nabothi, which secrete the thick mucus usually plugging up this part of the canal. These are closed follicles, and it is probable, that, at certain periods they burst, discharging their contents, and are succeeded by the deve- lopment of new follicles. Surrounding the os uteri there are several tongue-like processes of mucous membrane, the villi of the os uteri. Each contains a vascular loop, and is covered with squamous epithelium.* The nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric plexus. According to Dr. Beck the nerves spread out upon the surface of the uterus itself are few in number, and consist of branches which do not unite with each other so as to form a plexus. Dr. Lee describes numerous ganglia connected with these nerves; and his dissections would appear to show that the uterus is much more abundantly supplied with nerves, tha,n is admitted by anatomists generally. We are not, however, prepared to admit that the tex- tures displayed in the elaborate dissections of Dr. Lee, are entirely or even in great part nervous, or that the bodies which he has represented as ganglia, are really of this nature. This anatomist, like William Hunter, and Tiedemann, considers, that in the gravid uterus the nerves become much increased in size; an opinion which Dr. Beck has failed to confirm in his very caceful and elabo- rate dissections.f The ligaments of the uterus are described in works on descriptive anatomy. They are the anterior and posterior ligaments, the broad hgaments and the round hgaments. The two first iDeing merely folds of peritoneum, the latter a rounded cord about five • These villi have lately been carefully described by Dr. Tyler vSmith, Med. Chir. Traus., vol. xxxv. t Phil.'Trans. 1846, part ii.