DIGESTION. [chap. XXIII. 164 of trees, and detaclies tliem with force. The aiit-eaters have a remarkably long tongue, covered with a slimy secretion; this they protrude, and upon it entrap their victims. The camelion among reptiles, and the woodpecker among birds, have each a tongue enor-* mously developed for the purposes of prehension: to these many other striking examples might be added. The cavity of the mouth, in which mastication is conducted, is bounded, first, by the palate or roof of the mouth, a fixed and hard surfiice formed by parts of the upper maxillary and palate bones, supporting a dense fibrous structure, lined with closely adherent mucous membrane, and fitted to act as a resisting surface against which the tongue may press the food ; and, secondly, by the cheeks, lips, and tongue, which, in reference to the present function, may be classed together as tactile and muscular organs, designed to handle the food while subjected within the mouth to the action of the teeth, and then to forward it into the pharynx. Projecting into the mouth, above and below, is an arched series of teeth, or grinding organs, firmly fixed by roots into the alveoli of the upper and lower maxillary bones. Those of the upper jaw are immoveable, or only moveable with the entire head ; but those of the lower jaw are capable of up- The epithelium rests for the most part on a layer of membrane, hence termed basement membrane, which, in the best-marked examples, is distinctly homogeneous and transparent, but in some situations is finely fibrous, and not easily separable from the areolar and other tissues which lie below it. These two, the epithelium and the basement membrane, may be regarded as the constituents of a simple rnucous membrane, although the latter cannot be everywhere traced, for example, in the interior of the hepatic lobules. The office of the basement membrane seems to be in all cases to sustain the epithelium, and to shut in or cover over those tissues which may be regarded as internal to the elements of the simple mucous membrane. Professor Goodsir considers that the basement membrane is covered with points, which he terms centres of nutrition, from which the developement of the particles of epithelium proceeds ; but we cannot accede to this view ; first, because the best examples of basement membrane display no such points ; and, secondly, because such a supposition does nothing to explain the successive growth of the particles. The tissues which lie under the simple mucous membrane, as now sketched out, are areolar tissue, blood- and lymphatic vessels, and nerves, and in some situations a peculiar papillary tissue. These, in their several forms and proportions, greatly modify the characters of the membrane, as it is presented to the naked eye, and contribute largely to our common notions of the structure of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands. The areolar tissue forms the cutis vera of the skin, (vol. i. p. 406,) and the corresponding part of the great mucous tracts ; while in glands it is generally in much smaller quantity. The blood-vessels and other textures are modified in various ways, as will be hereafter noticed in detail.