CHAP, xxvm.] THE CIRCULATION IN THE ARTERIES. 353 systole the curves are distinctly altered so as to form segments of larger circles, a motion is communicated to the artery, and a change of place results; and straight arteries, which are more or less confined by the superjacent parts, become slightly curved under the same force. Thus, in the course of time, the arteries, especially those of parts to which by reason of a more active nu- trition in them there is a considerable afflux of blood, assume a tortuous form, as may be seen in the temporal and radial arteries of old persons, and in the spermatic artery of the bull. The Pm?5^.—When the finger is applied to an artery during life, it is felt to beat or pulsate in correspondence with the systolic actions of the heart, so that the number of pulsations in the artery corre- sponds exactly with the number of beats of the heart, and if an occasional interruption in the hearfs action take place, or what is called an intermission, there will be at the same time a failure in the beats in the artery. This phenomenon is called the pulse. From their contiguity to the heart it is always present in arteries, but it may occur in veins under circumstances to be explained hereafter. It is due to the same cause, which occasions the blood to flow per saltum, or by successive jets, from a divided artery. That cause arises out of the manner in which blood is pumped into the arterial system by suc- cessive jerks. Each jet of blood creates a wave which moves along the whole arterial system. The same phenomenon may be observed if water be injected by successive jerks into a narrow channel already full or nearly full, and open on the surface. Each fresh jet will create on the surface of the water in the channel a wave, i which may be followed to its most distant extremity. This wave, i even in a rigid tube, if sufficiently forcible, would communicate to the wall of the tube a thrill or vibration indicating the course which the wave takes. But in an elastic tube which yields under the : injecting force the phenomenon is more distinctly perceived as the " tube dilates under the pressure of the advancing wave. I It is important to notice that the phenomenon of the pulse in arteries is due solely to the wave excited by each successive injection Icapilkries, with an almost even tenor of velocity, in the same manner as the spout- ing water of some fire-engines is contrived to flow with a more even velocity, not- withstanding the alternate systoles and diastoles of the rising and falling embolus or force ; and this by the means of a large inverted globe, wherein the compressed air alternately dilating or contracting, in conformity to the workings to and fro of the Bmbolus, and thereby impelling the water more equally than the embolus alone would do, pushes it out in a more nearly equal spout."—Hsemastaticks, p. 22, § 26. I