CHAP, xviii.] THE INNER WALL OF THE TYMPANUM. 69 The inner layer is the ciHated epithelial lining of the cavity, which is easily scrai^ed off for examination in the fresh state (see vol. i. p. 62). Fig. 132. Diagram of the inner wall of the tympanum after maceration, the outer wall and ossicles being removed, a. Fenestraovalis. b. Fenestra rotunda, c. Promontory, d. Pyramid, with the orifice at its apex. e. Projection of the aqucductus Fallopii. /. Some of the mastoid cells communicating with the tympanum, g. Processus cochleariformis, bounding i, the canal for the tensor tj'mpani muscle: the anterior pyramid is broken off, if it existed. A. Commence- ment of the Eustachian tube, y. Jugular fossa, immediately below the tympanum, k, k. Caro- tid canal, with the artery in outline, to show its course in relation to the tympanum and Eusta- chian tube. /. Portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves, as it would be seen in the terminal part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. m. Chorda tympani, leaving the portio dura, and entering a short canal, which opens in the tympanum, at the base of the pyramid, n. Grooves for the tj-mpanic plexus. The internal wall of the tympanum (fig. 132) has two orifices of communication with the internal ear; the fenestra ovalis, a, leading to the vestibule, and the fenestra rotunda, b, opening into the cochlea. Both these are closed by membrane which prevents the escape of the fluid contained in these inner chambers, and communi- cates vibrations to it. The fenestra ovalis is likewise occupied by the base of the stapes, one of the chain of ossicles connecting it with the membrana tympani. Between the fenestras is the promontory/, c, corresponding to the first turn of the cochlea, and furrowed by two or three canals for the nerves which form the anastomosis of Jacohson, n. Behind the fenestra ovalis is a conical eminence, the pyramid, d, hol- lowed, and presenting a small orifice at its summit, which is on a level with the middle of the vestibular fenestra. The pyramid con- tains the stapedius muscle, the tendon of which emerges at its sum- mit, and runs to the neck of the stapes. This muscle is supplied