CHAP. XXVlli.] THE MIDDLE COAT OF ARTERIES. 317 Fig. 184. arteiy suffers from so much ; in diseased or injured states of the other coats, it preserves the integrity of the tube, and prevents any serious interruptions to the circulation ; the wall of many aneu- risms consists in great part of this tunic: and on the application of a ligature, while the inner and middle coats give way under the pressure, this tunic resists and preserves its continuity for a time. 0/ the Middle, or Fibrous Coat. — This tunic constitutes the principal portion of the arterial wall. It is in greatest part com- posed of yellow elastic fibrous tissue ; but it likewise contains some white fibrous tissue, and also some of the unstriped muscular fibre. When a large artery, as the human aorta, or the aorta of a horse or ox, is cut either longitudinally or transversely, two very distinct por- tions may be observed on examining the surface of the section with the naked eye. These are, an internal portion, quite yellow in colour, and constituting not more than a tenth or a twelfth of the thickness of the whole tunic ; and an external portion of a grayish-yellow colour. The internal portion, which we shall call the longitudinal fibrous tunic, is composed of longitudinal fibres of yellow fibrous tissue, disposed in two planes, forming an internal and an external layer. The internal layer is in inti- mate contact with the epithelium, and consists of fine pale somewhat flat not branching fibres, im- bedded in a hyaline mem- brane which peels off readily in the length of the vessel, and when se- parated from connexion with the adjacent layer assumes a coiled form, as shown in fig. 184. These fibres are not altered in any degree by the action of acetic acid. The external layer is composed of fibres of elastic tissue, which also take a longitudinal direction, but are much coarser, and branch freely, forming a veryintricate interlacement (fig. 185). The external grayish-yellow por- tion of the fibrous coat of arteries forms nine-tenths or eleven-twelfths of the thickness of the wall of the artery, and may be distinguished from the Coarsdy fibrous layer of the longitudinal -' o Kjiiv^v.. iivyiiA ^ ^ fibrous tunic of the aorta of the horse. Wag- internal portion by the name of the nified 200 diameters. circular fibrous tunic. It consists entirely of transverse fibres, which surround the artery at right angles to its long axis. These fibres Finely fibrous layer of the longitudinal fibrous tunic of the aorta of the horse. Magnified 200 diameters. Fig. 185.