610 [chap. xlii. DEVELOPMENT inches in length. Each body was composed of numerous trans- verse cceca, passing from the Fallopian tube towards the corre- sponding ovary. The kidneys are developed independently of the Wolffian bodies, and are situated on the inner side of the ducts of these temporary organs. As the latter gradually diminish in size, the development of the former advances. Supra-renal Capsules.—The investigations of Mr. Gray upon the development of the supra-renal capsules in the chick, have proved that these bodies are not to be recognised before the end of the 7th day, when an ill-defined granular mass, of a reddish color, makes its appearance between the aorta and upper and inner sides of the Wolffian bodies. It seems to have no connexion with the thyroid or thymus, as Professor Goodsir described. Its minute structure resembled that of the spleen about the fifth day of in- cubation. By the 8th day, vesicles could be distinguished, and by the fourteenth day were found to contain oil globules, but no nuclei could be detected in their interior. The capsules were of large size, and of a yellow color by the 18th day, and now the division into cortical and medullary portions was quite distinct. The supra-renal capsules are developed from two separate masses of blastema, situated between the aorta and upper and inner extremities of the Wolffian bodies. They have no connexion with the latter, or with each other, and although in their minute struc- tm-e they resemble the spleen, they arrive at their maximum of development before that organ. Organs of Generation.—The sexual organs are developed at a later period than other glands. They are formed from masses of blastema situated upon the inner side of the upper and free part of the ducts of the Wolffian bodies. The ovaries and testicles are developed independently of the Wolffian bodies. At an early period of development the glands in both sexes have very similar characters, and it is not possible to say whether the organ is idti- mately to become converted into a testicle, or whether it is to retain its primitive characters, which agree with those of the ovary. According to the observations of Valentin, the ovary of mammalian animals is developed in the form of tubes, in which the Graafian follicles are produced. The excretory ducts in the lowest vertebrata are two in number, and open into the cloaca, an arrangement which is persistent in many fishes, but in the higher classes they are united, and form a single canal, the arrangement of which has been carefully investi-