CHAP. XX.] THE VAGUS NERVE. ii^ ramifies, and the remarkable rapidity with which the pharyngeal mus- cles respond to the slightest stimulus applied to it. The following conclusions may be adopted respecting the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. 1. It is the sensitive nerve of the mucous membrane of the fauces and of the root of the tongue, and in the latter situation it ministers to taste and touch as well as to common sensibility; and being the sensitive nerve of the fauces, it is probably concerned in the feeling of nausea which may be so readily excited by stimulating the mu- cous membrane of this region. 2. Such are its peripheral organization and central connexions, that stimulation of any part of the mucous membrane in which it ramifies, excites instantly to contraction all the faucial muscles sup- plied by the vagus and the facial nerves, and the permanent irrita- tion of its peripheral ramifications, as in cases of sore throat, will affect other muscles supplied by the facial nerve hkewise. It is, therefore, an excitor of the movements necessary to pharyngeal de- glutition. Of the Vagus Nerve. The par vagum or pneumogastric nerve, is of all the encephalic nerves the most extensively connected. This nerve emerges from the medulla oblongata immediately be- low the glossopharyngeal, by from eight to ten fasciculi of fibres which pass outwards to an opening in the dura mater, through which it escapes in company with the spinal accessory. The line along which its fascicles emerge from the medulla is placed a little behind the posterior edge of the olivary body. These fascicles penetrate the olivary columns, and are there implanted in a special accumulation of vesicular matter. A ganglion is formed upon the vagus nerve immediately it enters the canal of the dura mater. From this ganglion some small nerves come off. Shortly after the emergence of the vagus nerve from the base of the skull, another gangliform enlargement is formed upon it, which Arnold calls, jf^ea^ws gangliformis. It is at the situation of this enlargement that the union between this nerve and the in- ternal branch of the spinal accessory takes place. At its upper part the vagus forms numerous anastomoses, at first by nerves given off from the ganglion. These are, a, with the ganglion petrosum of the glossopharyngeal, h, with the carotid branch of the superior cervical ganglion, c, with the facial nerve, through the branch called by Arnold the auricular, which is situate in the jugu- lar fossa outside the vein, and is seen through its coats when that vessel is laid open. It anastomoses likewise with the ninth