577 MEMBRANA DECIDUA. CHAP. XL.] Fig. 272. mation of a soft pulpy tissue^ containing cellular elements in great abundance, over the whole internal surface of the uterus. In this soft spongy substance the ovum becomes imbedded, and with it the chorion becomes intimately connected. This membrane, in consequence of its being thrown off at each parturition, has been termed the " membrana decidua." The decidua was formerly looked upon as an exudation from the mucous membrane of the uterus; but from the observations of Professor E. H. Weber and Dr. Sharpey, it has been shown to con- sist of the much thickened and altered mucous membrane itself. It appears to be composed of glands lined with epithelium, between which ramify vessels surrounded by much soft pulpy tissue, com- posed principally of nucleated cells. At the time of its formation, the ordinary ciliated epithelial lining of the unimpregnated uterus entirely disappears, and its cavity soon becomes filled Avith a fluid secreted by the soft and swollen decidua. The os uteri is plugged up by a soft, viscid, mucus-like mass, com- posed of a secretion from the decidual membrane; but the cells which are found in it differ materially in character from those immediately surrounding the ovum, in being of an elongated form, while the latter are spherical, and, according to Pro- fessor Goodsir, perform the very important office of elaborating the nutrient material for the ovum. Structure of the Membrana Decidua.—In the unimpregnated uterus of the bitch and other animals, and probably also in that of the human subject, but more minute, are situated numerous small glands, which in- crease enormously in size immediately after conception. In the human uterus, soon after impregnation, they are seen as elon- gated wavy tubes, having a tolerably straight course in their more superficial part, but much contorted towards their 1 i 1 i_ • , • , mencinft pregnancy, sliowinc thp deep aspect, where they termmate m two glands in the mucous membrane, and or three coecal extremities. The space si'.t rte^^eber."'" between these tubes, contains capillary vessels and numerous cells, to the increased development and multiplication of Avhich, accord- ing to Professor Goodsir, the greatly increased thickness of the mem- Section of liumnn uterus at com-