CHAP. XXVII.] THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. 299 corpuscles of the goat arc very small, siss—-r^ of '"ch in diameter. The largest corpuscles in Mammalia arc found in the elephant; they measure, according to Gulliver, of an inch in diameter. The Camelidne oifcr a remarkable exception to the circular form of the blood-corpuscle of Mammalia. In these animals it is oval, as first pointed out by Mr. Gulliver, with a long diameter of from 3^5 to g^j, of an inch, and a short diameter of j^, to ; in all other respects, however, these corpuscles agree with those of other mammals. In Birds the corpuscles are oval in shape; they have a very distinct nucleus, which is much smaller than the corpuscle itself. The long diameter of the blood- corpuscle of Birds ranges between and of an inch, and the short diameter from jJjs to ^ of an inch. (Figs. 176, 181, 183). Fig-. 175. Fio- 176. Red corpuscles of pigeon's blood magni- fied 100 diameters. A. Red particles unal- tered, with tw o or three colourless particles. B. Treated with acetic acid, wliich dcvelopes the cell-wall and nucleus more clearly. Blood-corpuscles of the common frog. Mag- nified -JOO diameters, a. In serum, a Fully developed corpuscle, b. Nucleus with pale cell- wall and clear contents, c. Colourless cor- puscle. B. Treated with acetic acid. In Reptiles the red corpuscles arc of an oval shape, with a distinct and large nucleus (Fig. 176). The long diameter of the corpuscle has a range of from ^ to of an inch, the short diameter ranging between ,^^5 to .j^^ of an inch. Among these arc to be found the largest known blood-corpuscles, as those of the proteus and of the syren. Fig. 177- Fig. 178. Red corpuscle of fishes:—a. Lamprey. b. Skate. (After Wharton Jones.) Blood-corpuscles of the crab. a. Granule cells. B. Nucleated cells. (After Wharton Jones.) In Fishes, the red corpuscle is oval in most of the genera, and possesses a distinct nucleus (Fig. 177, b). In the lowest cartilaginous fishes, as the lamprey and the myxine, however, it returns to the circular and biconcave form of the Mam- malian red corpuscle (Fig. 177, a). This remarkable fact was first pointed out by Professor 11. Wagner. Mr. Wharton Jones has shown that it contains a nucleus, which cannot be detected in the red corpuscles of Mammalia. X 2