CHAP. xxii,l DIET. 100 needed, as a principal portion of the diet, to supply the waste which mental and bodily exertion give rise to. It must be confessed, however, that the views which theory sug- gests upon this subject are not such as would enable us with benefit, or even with safety, to determine the suitable diet for man. We learn much from instinct and more from experience, which we could never have gathered from a priori reasoning. Thus the importance of the admixture of vegetable Avith animal food could never have been determined without the aid of the experience afforded by the melancholy instances of disease generated by the privation of the former kind of aliment. Scurvy, as it is now well known, is fre- quently due to the want of a proper supply of fresh vegetable food; and it may be quickly and effectually cured by supplying this want. Again, it cannot be the deficiency of any of the staminal principles which gives rise to scurvy, because these exist in abundance in the animal food ; and scurvy, it must be remembered, will occur in the midst of plenty of this kind of food. The disease is due to the deficiency of some unknown material necessary to health, which the vegetable kingdom alone can supply; and which, appa- rently, is most readily obtained from citric acid, lemon or lime- juice, or vegetables containing citric acid in good quantity, as the potatoe. Nevertheless, the results of investigations as to the influence of particular kinds of diet in modifying nutrition, are sti-ongly confirmatory of the views expressed above. Diet may be insuflii- cient, either from its being given in too small quantity, or from its being defective in some principle, essential or incidental, necessary to the health of the blood—that fluid, upon the healthy condition of which the proper nourishment of the body depends. The effects of a diet scanty in quantity, although not objectionable in quality, are visible in the general emaciation, the wasting of all the tissues, and the consequent debility. If dissolution be slow, the great non- nitrogenized material of the body, fat, is employed to supply the animal heat, as is strikingly seen in hybernating animals. Specific effects follow the absence of certain elements of the food, even al- though the absolute quantity of it be abundant. If nitrogen be deficient in quantity, or altogether absent, the imperfect nutrition shows itself in the form of ulcerations of particular textures. Those tissues suffer most in which there is but little inherent activity of nutrition, or which are exposed to the contact of vitiated secretions. In Magendie's well-known experiments of feeding dogs upon sugar and water, the cornea of the eye ulcerated, and destruction of the