376 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. On the whole we are disposed to the following conclusion respect- ing the capillary circnlation, namely, that it is maintained by the vis a tergo of the heart; but it is regulated and modified partly by the elasticity of the walls of the capillary blood-vessels, partly also by their contractility, which is greatly influenced by changes in the nervous system, but chiefly by the operation of a force, developed by those chemical and physical changes, which take place between the blood and the tissues, and in which the phenomena of nutrition essentially consist. For the due exercise of this force a normal constitution of both the blood and the tissues is the most important condition. Of the Circulation in the Veins.—The blood moves in the veins in a continuous stream, a fact sufiiciently apparent to all who have watched its escape from a vein after venesection, and as is likewise apparent in examining the circulation in minute veins under the microscope. The velocity of the venous current is considerably less than that of the arterial, but greater than that of the capillaries, and, as Volkmann has shown, it increases in the veins which are nearest to the heart. That the ms a tergo of the heart is sufiicient to maintain the circulation in the veins is abundantly proved by all those facts which have been already recited with reference to its influence on the capillary circulation. Of these the most important are the experiments of Magendie, already referred to (p. 369), and the fact that in states of debility a distinct venous pulse is formed synchronous with the heart, and evidently resulting from the extension of the heart's impulse through the capillaries. Such a pulse (which may be called the systolic venous pulse) is in rare instances observable in the human subject in states of great prostration of strength. nes ; ion fibres, and a thickened and opaque state of the walls of the Malpighian capillai while the intertubular capillaries and veins remain unaltered, save in a diminut of their number, some having become wasted and obliterated in consequence of tlie arrested action of the secreting cells. These observations show an obvious con- nexion between the activity of the organic changes connected with the act of secretion and that of the capillary circulation, and, indeed, an interdependence between the movement of the blood and the secretory function of the gland ; but the hypertrophy of the muscular fibres of the capillary arteries seems rather to indicate that in these extreme capillary arteries, some propulsive power (»is a tergo) may be exercised by their muscular fibres in promoting the flow througli tlie capillary system.—See Dr. Johnson's Paper on Albuminous Urine and Dropsy in the 33rd vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans. I