CHAP. XXI.] FUNCTION OF TUE SYMPATHETIC. 143 to be correct, justify us in affirming that the sympathetic exhibits marked indications if not of independence, yet of great pecuHarity, in its mode of distribution. Clinging to the coats of arteries, it follows them for the most part in their ramifications, and attaches itself to them somewhat as ivy does to a tree. Yet of the mode of termination of the gelatinous fibres of the sympathetic, and of the nature of their relations with the elements of the tissues among which they lie, nothing certain is known; a fact attributable in a great degree to their want of such obviously distinctive characters as the tubular fibres possess. These latter, after leaving the blood-vessels, are probably distributed either to sentient surfaces or to muscles in the ordinary way. The proper mode, then, of stating the reply to this question seems to us to be: that the sympathetic, taken as a whole, is hot in itself a special and independent nervous system, but a portion of the nervous system peculiar in its composition, having, as regards some of its constituent fibres, a special relation to blood-vessels, parti- cularly arteries, (and these are the fibres which are independent of the cerebro-spinal centres, having distinct centres of their ^wn), but being by others of its fibres connected, as all other nerves are, with the cerebro-spinal centres. II. The second question affects the endowments of the consti- tuent fibres of the sympathetic. If we interrogate anatomy, we learn that the ramifications of this nerve are distributed to muscles as well as to sentient surfaces. The heart, for instance, derives its principal supply of nerves from this source. The intestinal canal between the stomach and the lowest part of the colon receives no nerves direct from the cerebro-spinal system, and is therefore dependent solely on the sympathetic, for whatever of sensibility it enjoys, or for such motor power as may be usually called into action by nervous influence. We, therefore, must infer from anatomy that the sympathetic contains both sensi- tive and motor fibres. Many experiments lead to a similar conclusion. Stimulation of the cervical ganglia excites the heart to increased action ; and irri- tation of the splanchnic nerves causes increased vermicular motion in the stomach and intestinal canal. Miiller proved a similar result to ensue upon irritation of the ca^liac ganglion. He exposed the intestines, and likewise the caeliac ganglion in a rabbit; he waited until the increase of peristaltic action, which exposure to the air always produces, had subsided, and then he applied potassa fusa to the ganglion, when immediately the peristaltic movements became