CHAP. XXXVII.] URETHRA. 543 supposed; the minute terminal vessels ultimately open into the venous spaces. The arrangement of Fig. 259. the arteries in the corpus spongio- sum urethrse, is similai* to that just described. Urethra.—The male urethra is the canal which extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis. It is about eight inches and a half in length, but varies slightly in different cases. The tube itself is lined "with mucous membrane, and a small artery of the corpora cavernosa, - giving ofif a lateral branch, from whicli proceed its diameter is not by any means heliclne arteries, terminating in very small vessels, which are continued in tlie trabecular the same m its whole extent. its tissue, (a.) 6. WaU of the arteries. After . T n Til Kblliker. direction is that of a double curve, like the letter / The walls of the urethra are strong, and com- posed principally of fibrous tissue, with a layer of unstripcd mus- cular fibre, the arrangement of which has been well described by Mr. Hancock. The urethra is divided, by descriptive anatomists, into three portions; the prostatic, being about twelve lines long; the mem- branous, about three-quarters of an inch in length in its upper part, but only half an inch in its lower portion; and the remainder, by far the most extensive portion of the caiial, called the spongy por- tion, which reaches to the orifice. The prostatic portion of the urethra is its widest part, and lies imbedded in the upper part of the prostate, above its middle lobe. At the neck of the bladder, the mucous membrane forms a fold, called the uvula vesica. Anterior to this is a narrow ridge, rising from the floor of the tube, about nine lines in length, and about one and a half lines in height in its highest part, called the veru- montanum, caput gallinaginis, or a'est of the urethra."^ On each side of this, the mucous membrane forms a depression, the prostatic sinus, into which the ducts of the prostate gland open. At the highest part of the verumontanum is a little sinus, the vesicula prostatica. It is here that the ejaculatory ducts open. The membranous portion is that narrowest part of the urethi'a which lies beneath the pubis and passes through the layers of the triangular ligament. It is surrounded with muscular fibres, and the compressor urethrce muscle is situated upon this part of the tube; * Vide article " Vesicula Prostatica," in the Cyclopajdia of Anatomy and Physiology, by Prof. Rud. Lcuckart.