149 CHAPTER XXII. GENERAL VIEW OF THE FUNCTION OF DIGESTION.—OF THE MINOR FUNC- TIONS WHICH CONTRIBUTE TO IT. OF FOOD. ITS QUALITY. ITS QUANTITY. Having discussed the great animal functions of Locomotion and Innervation, we now commence tlie consideration of those organic functions which are more directly concerned in maintaining the nu- trition, and, consequently, the life of the individual. Of the nutritive processes, the function of Digestion is clearly the most prominent and most Important, inasmuch as it is that through which the animal is enabled to receive the aliment, and to prepare it for being assimilated to, and appropriated by, the various textures and organs of the body. Under the general expression, " function of Digestion," must be comprehended several minor processes, all tending to the same object, namely, the reduction of the food for the nourishment of the body. The number of these subordinate processes varies with the degree of complication of the digestive function, which is obviously influenced by the complicated nature of the animal's body, and by the part which it has to play in the ceconomy of the world. Taking the digestive process, in its highest degree of complexity in man and the mammalia, we find that there is provision, first, for the prehension of the food ; secondly, for its mechanical division and com- minution (mastication), and for its admixture with a peculiar fluid (insalivation); thirdly, for the conveyance of the food into that por- tion of the alimentary canal in which its principal chemical changes are to take place (deglutition) ; fourthly, for the solution and re- duction of the food preparatory to its being brought into a condition favourable to absorption (cJiymification) ; fifthly, for the separation of a material which shall contain in a condensed form the chief nu- tritive principles of the food, and which is easily absorbed into the blood (chylification) ; and lastly, for the removal of such portions of the food as have not been absorbed into the system during its pas- sage along the alimentary canal (deftEcation). In examining the digestive process in the inferior classes of animals, various mo- difications are found to take place in it, according to peculiarities in the habits of