TUE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap. 350 to be half that of the left, he would estimate the power of the latter at one-hundredth part of the weight of the body. This would give a force of upwards of three pounds for the left ventricle for a man weighing eleven stone, and half of that for the right. Now Hales had long ago (1769) shown that under the pressure of a column of water nine feet and a half in height, fluid might be made to pass from the carotid artery to the jugular vein through the capillary system. And it is well known to anatomists that when the vessels are free from coagulated blood or other mechanical obstruction, thin fluids may be transmitted by a very slight force from the arteries to the veins. Dr. Sharpey's experiments * indicate the exact amount of force necessary for this purpose. A syringe with a hsemadynamometer, to show the amount of pressure used, was adapted to the thoracic aorta of a dog just killed, the abdominal aorta having been pre- viously tied immediately above the renal arteries, and the inferior vena cava opened just as it passes through the diaphragm. Fresh defibrinated bullock's blood was injected with a pressure of three and a half inches of mercury, and passed through the double capil- lary system of the intestines and the liver out of the veins with a full stream. When the pressure was increased to five inches, the blood spirted from the vein in a full jet. When the aorta was not tied above the renal arteries, the same pressure sufiiced to drive the blood through the vessels of the lower extremities, and it was made to traverse the capillary system of the lungs by a pressure of from one and a half to two inches of mercury, so as to flow freely through the pulmonary veins. Allowing one pound for every two inches of mercury, it would thus appear that a pressure of two pounds was sufiicient to complete the circulation through the two abdominal capillary systems—and of one pound for the pulmonary circulation. Unless, then, we assume that there are obstacles to the flow of blood through the vascular system, which during life are much greater than those after death, it must be granted that the heart's force, which in man does not probably exceed three pounds, is sufiicient to drive the blood throughout the three systems of blood- vessels, and to maintain the current of the circulation ; and that this force alone is capable of producing all the grand phenomena of the circulation. It remains, then, to inquire whether the vis a tergo of the heart is the sole force by which the circulation is maintained, or whether * See Williams's " Elements of Medicine/' p. 185.