USES OF THE SPLEEN. 517 CHAP. XXXV,] twenty experimeuts, was blood expelled from the organ, or its diameter diminished. Not only does the spleen perform this phy- sical office, but, as has been shown, certain important chemical and microscopical changes are found to have occurred in the blood which has passed through this organ. In 1847, KoLliker advanced the theory that blood corpuscles became disintegrated in the spleen, an opinion which was afterwards supported by Ecker and Bcclard. From various facts which we have alluded to^ we cannot but look upon this point as decided in the affirmative, although others have been led to adopt the view, that blood corpuscules are actually formed, instead of being disintegrated, in this organ. Kolliker thought that the colouring matter of the blood was changed in the sijleen, and converted into the peculiar colouring matter of the bile; but Mr. Gray has shown, that yellowish-green bile is found in the gall-bladder of the chick, at a period consider- ably antecedent to the development of the splenic vein. The small size of the spleen in the foetus, as compared with its increase after birth, and in adult Hfe, renders it improbable that in intra- uterine life it acts the part either of a blood-forming, or blood- destroying, organ. Its great increase in size, in well-fed animals, and its diminu- tion in insufficiently-fed animals, and, especially its increase after the completion of digestion, render it extremely probable that it has the power of storing up albuminous material for future con- sumption, when a larger quantity of nutrient material is taken than is required for the immediate wants of the system. The cells of the jMalpigliian corpuscles appear, from Mr. Gray's observations, to be the organs especially concerned in this process. Supra-renal Capsules.—The supra-renal capsules are two bodies of a somewhat triangular form, situated one on each side of the spine, a little above the corresponding kidney, to the capsule of which each is connected by loose cellular tissue. Each supra-renal capsule is about an inch and a half in depth, somewhat less in width, and usually about half an inch in thick- ness. The weight varies from one to two drachms. The gland is enclosed in a thin fibrous capsule, Avhich dips down into its sub- stance. It is surrounded with loose areolar tissue, containing an abundant quantity of fat. Upon making a section through the body, it is found to be com- posed of two distinct portions, a cortical and a medullary part. The former is of a yellowish colour, shading into a brown border towards the interior. It tears somewhat readily, and then exhibits