271 THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. i criAP. xxvr.] undoubtedly concerned in the absorption of a part at least of the nutrient matters of the food—their contents (chyle) after a meal being of a milky appearance—whence their name, vasa lactea, given to them in 1622 by their discoverer, Asellius. The lymphatics (and the lacteals during fasting) contain a pellucid fluid—the lymph. The lacteals originate in the mucous membrane of the intestines, especially in the villi, and form a network with close meshes in the submucous areolar tissue. There are also more superficial ones between the peritoneum and muscular coat, which take a more longitudinal course, and join the others on the mesentery. They then pass in great numbers between the layers of the mesentery towards its root, anastomosing with one another and traversing glandular organs, the mesenteric glands, in their way to the right side of the aorta, where they all finally discharge themselves into an elongated pouch common to them and to the lymphatics of the parts below—termed the receptaculum chyli. From this the thoracic duct leads upwards to the left subclavian vein. The receptaculum is usually from an inch to an inch and a half j in length, and from a quarter to three-eighths of an inch in diameter. The thoracic duct, which is continued upwards from it, lies in the chest between the aorta and vena azygos, then inclines behind the arch of the aorta to the left side, and empties itself into the upper and back part of the left subclavian vein close to the internal jugular vein, its orifice being defended by two valves. The thoracic duct is about an eighth of an inch or more wide, becomes more narrow up to the sixth dorsal vertebra, and again dilates opposite the third. It frequently divides into branches which reunite—and sometimes opens into the subclavian vein by two or even three separate trunks. The lymphatic vessels of the upper and lower extremities form two sets, a deep one accompanying the deep blood-vessels, and a I superficial one running in the deeper layer of the superficial fascia. These sets anastomose and pass in common to the trunk by the groin and axilla, where numerous glands occur upon them. (J) Those of the lower extremities after passing under Poupart's j ligament, follow the great blood-vessels, are joined by others from ( the pelvis, loins, and abdominal walls and viscera, and open into ). the receptaculum chyli by from four to six large trunks. Very ' numerous glands succeed each other in their course, forming an irregular chain. The thoracic duct is joined by lymphatics from the left side of the walls of the chest, and from the heart and left