42 INNERVATION. CHAP. xvn. cord, the tendo ocuU, about a quarter of an inch long, which passes horizontally to be fixed to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. This latter is the principal attachment of the eyelids. The eyelids enclose the orbicularis muscle between the skin and their cartilages. Its fibres run in curves from the lower border of the tendo oculi and neighbouring part of the border of the orbit, encir- cling the eye and forming a thin layer under the skin, both of the lids, cheek, and brow, and returning to the upper border of the tendo oculi. They are supplied by the portio dura, and perhaps by some fibres of the fifth nerve, and act generally in answer to the stimulus of air or foreign particles on the fifth nerve in the conjunc- tiva, as well as of a too strong light upon the retina. The will exerts a limited power over the orbicularis, but is quite unable to restrain its action when sufliciently excited by the before-named stimuli. The entire muscle consists of striped fibres. The lids are further armed along their free margin by the delicate curved hairs, called the lashes. These intercept the entry of foreign particles directed against the eye, and assist in defending the organ from excess of light. At the border of the eyelids, the skin becomes continuous with their mucous lining, termed the conjunctiva. This membrane lies upon the tarsal cartilages, and is then reflected over the front of the globe, where it has been already in part described with the cornea. Between the cartilages and the conjunctiva, and partially imbedded in the former, are the Meibomian glands, which may be seen through the conjunctiva (figure 128). Each gland consists of a series of follicles, arranged upon an elongated com- mon duct, which empties itself on the border of the lid. They consist of a basement membrane and an epithelium (fig. 129) ; the latter contains seba- View of the conjunctival surface of the Eyelids. The Mei- ^eOUS matter iu itS Cclls, bomianglandsareseenrunningtowards Ae edges of the lids : -I. The lacrymal gland removed with the Uds. d. Orihces of ^ jg cOUtmual COUrSC its seven ducts on the conjunctiva. At the mner extremity of the borders of the lids the orifices of the canalicuh (puncta offormatlOn. Itsparticles, lacrvmalia) are seen, o, o. Orbicularis muscle beyond the lids. ^ i , j —From Soeramerring. wlicu lully developed, are thrust forward along the duct, and constitute the secretion. The Fig 12