373 uHAi'. XXVIII.] THE CAPILLARY CIRCULATION. i put on record by the late Dr. Houston.* No doubt the same law ! which influences the movement of fluids in vegetable tissues would I be in operation in such cases. i Now with reference to the phenomena in the circulation of the ' blood in man above referred to, it may be asked is the assumption of the exercise of a capillary force necessary for explaining them ? Can blushing, and other local determinations of blood be ac- counted for, if we admit a vis a tergo as the sole force of the i circulation ? In order to explain the accumulation of blood, in the cheeks for instance, under the influence of mental emotion, the advocates of the latter doctrine suppose the capillaries muscular, and affirm that a relaxed state of the walls of the capillary arteries, and perhaps also of the capillaries themselves, is produced by the nervous change which mental emotion excites. Such an explanation is perfectly admissible in this particular case, and it seems highly probable that in the relaxed state of the capillary vessels of the face, their walls yield under the pressure of the heart more than those of neighbouring vessels which do not come so completely within the range of the centre of emotion. And in many persons, emotion causes the blood to desert the cheeks, which in consequence become pale. In such cases the change in the nervous centre must excite an opposite, that is, a contracted state of the capillaries of the cheeks. But the accumulations of blood which are caused by local irrita- tions, do not admit of satisfactory explanation by mere changes in the capillaries of the affected part. For example, a particle of dust is thrown into the eye, and as long as it is in contact with the conjunctiva, its capillary vessels are turgid with blood. Is this due to a relaxed state of the capillaries caused by the presence of an irritating agent ? The analogy of the influence of mechanical stimulation upon other vessels would lead us to infer that the irritation of a particle of dust in contact Avith the conjunctiva would cause the capillary vessels to contract, and a contracted state of these vessels would oppose rather than favour the accumulation of blood in them. It seems much more reasonable to suppose that the irritation caused by the foreign particle, increases the attractive force which the tissue naturally exercises on the blood; and this would give us a clue to explain the two kinds of congestion long recognised by practical men, the passim and the active form. The former is owing simply to a relaxed flaccid state of the parietes of the blood-vessels * Dublin Medical Journal, vol. viii.