522 THYMUS. [chap. XXXV. Fiy. 251. of the gland contains granular matter, with numerous nuclei dispersed through it. In a thin section, the outline of the cavities can be readily seen; they vary from the l-50th to the l-18th of an inch in diameter, and contain numerous granular and nearly splierical nuclei, which arc, for the most part, about 1-4000th of an inch in diameter, but vary considerably iu size. Dr. Ilandficld Jones observes, that before any appearance of atrophy has taken place, these elements are alone found, and there is an entii'c ab- sence of oil particles, and granular material. The nuclei seem to fill the ultimate vesicles completely. Uses of the Thymus.—Mr. Simon regards the secretion of the thymus as allied to proteine, and of a nutri- tious nature. In the human foetus, the thvmus cannot be detected before the ninth week, and its functional activity is greatest in the early period of life, before the muscular sj'^stem is in a very active state; for when the muscles become more fully active, a. Binary and quaternary division of sim- ,^ .^ , , -i pie follicles, h. Unusual appearance, in tuC tliymUS appears UOt tO bC rC- wliich tlie follicles must have increased con- • i tj. i i • -i siderably in lenptli before undergoing divi- qUirCCl. it SCCmS COlineCtCd With sion. From tlie foetiil lamb. ,■, .. « j> ,i c. Mature structure of tii}-mns,siio«iugthe tlic prcpaimiou 01 matter lor the arrangement of the vesicles belonging to one i • ±^ tr n cone. d. Tube of gland. After Simon. pulmOUary OrgaUS m the "age Ot early groAvth." Arguing from these and many other facts, Mr. Simon looks upon the thymus as acting " as a sinking fund in the service of respiration." From tlie twentieth to the twenty-fifth year it diminishes I'apidly in size, until no trace of it can be detected in the areolar tissue of the mediastinum. In hybernating animals, previous to the commence- ment of the winter sleep, the thymus becomes gorged with fat, which is slowly consumed during the period of hybernation. It has been remarked, that the use of the thymus at the diflerent periods of active growth and hybernation is distinct. In the latter case, it doubtless supplies hydro-carbonaceous matter for respira- tion ; but its office, during the former period, appears rather to be that of elaborating fibrine from albumen and other substances by the action of its numerous nuclei. As the absorbent and other glands connected with the vascular system become developed, there seems no longer any need of a special organ for this pui - I