344 THE CIUCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [ciiai'. xxviii. denoting that tliat phenomenon cannot be due to any recoil con- sequent upon the resistance to the passage of the blood througli the great vessels, and that its true cause is the contraction of the fibres of the ventricle. Certain sounds accompany the heart's action, the accurate inter- pretation of which has shed a flood of light upon the diagnosis of diseases of that organ. On placing the ear over the region of the heart^ in a healthy individual, the following phenomena may be perceived; first, a heavy, somewhat prolonged sound, which is synchronous with the impulse, and is best heard over the heart's apex ; this is the systolic or first sound ; secondly, a short clicking sound immediately succeeding this ; it is synchronous with (but not caused by) the diastole of the ventricles, and is called the diastolic, or second sound; it is best heard over the base of the heart near the root of the aorta. After this the heart seems to pause, as it were to take rest, and then follows the first sound again, followed instantly by the second sound, and then the pause. The duration of the first sound is about double that of the second, while that of the second is equal to the pause. Thus if the whole period of the heart's action be divided into four parts, the first two would be occupied by the first sound, the third by the second sound, and the fourth by the pause. Numerous experiments and observations have been made with reference to the question of the signification of these sounds. We must here content ourselves with stating the conclusions which we think may be safely drawn from them. The first sound is composed mainly of the muscular sound generated by the contraction of the ventricles, strengthened by that due to the sudden tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves over the blood contained in the ventx'i- cles, this tension being effected by the contraction of the carneae columnaj, which is synchronous with that of the rest of the ventri- cular wall. To these causes of sound may be added the impulse of the heart against the wall of the chest, and, perhaps, also the collision of the blood against the orifices of the great vessels. The second sound is due to the sudden tension of the semilunar valves of the two great vessels by the recoil of the columns of blood injected into them by their respective ventricles. An ex- periment, originally suggested by the late Dr. Hope, and repeated by several observers, proves this unequivocally. If in an animal whose respiration is maintained by artificial insufl^lation, the heart's action being thereby prolonged, a hook be introduced into the aorta so as to hold back one of its valves, and leave a passage for