DIGESTION. [chap. XXII. organ ensued upon the consequent evacuation of the humors. Simi- lar cases now and then occur in the human subject from the supplies of nourishment being inadequate. Ulcers are very apt to show themselves on the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal; they will form in the mouth or in the intestine. These signs may be accompanied with a more or less scorbutic state, as shewn in spongy gums, subcutaneous ecchymoses, &c., according to the extent to which the blood has suffered; they may occur, too, where there is abundance of fat, although wasting of muscles. If the supply of non-nitrogenous food be large, fat will be formed. When Magen- die fed dogs exclusively on fat, there were ulceration of the cornea and wasting of muscle, but the tissues were infiltrated with fat. The case of the ill-fated Dr. Stark illustrated the effects of the long continuance of a diet deficient in nitrogen. This physician, with ill-directed zeal, dieted himself for four months chiefly on non- azotized food, watei-, butter, oil, sugar, taking only bread in small quantity, and meat or fish occasionally as azotized food. In a short time, well-marked scorbutic symptoms shewed themselves without any diminution in the fat of his body; but subsequently diarrhoea, the result of ulceration of the intestinal mucous mem- brane, came on, and terminated his career. Of the quantity of food necessary for health.—The proper quantity of food necessary for the support of general nutrition in a healthy state can only be determined by the results of observation and ex- periment ; and the best mode of gaining information on this point is to consult the diet tables of various public institutions, in which due attention is paid to the health of the inmates, or to ascertain the allowances which are found sufficient for the army and navy. Each seaman in the British naval service, is allowed from 31 to 351 ounces of dry nutritious food daily, of which 26 ounces are vege- table and the rest animal, the latter consisting of nine ounces of salt meat or 4^ of fresh. Sugar and cocoa are also given. The sol- dier is allowed a pound of bread and three quarters of a pound of meat. In most of the London hospitals, full diet, which is given to convalescent patients who need a liberal diet, consists generally of half a pound of meat, with from 12 to 14 ounces of bread, half a pound of potatoes, a pint of milk, and sometimes beer or porter, a pint of the former or half a pint of the latter. The former diet- ary is destined for men who must be in readiness for the most active athletic exercises, requiring not only great muscular strength, but also considerable power of enduring fatigue. The latter is intended to recruit the powers of those who have been suffering from disease.