8 INNEHVATrON. [chap. XVI. The hdh of the olfactory process (fig. 106, h) is an elongated oval mass of nervous matter, which lies upon the cribriform plate. The white portions of the olfactory process terminate in its posterior ex- tremity. It contains a small ventricle, which, in some of the lower Fig. lOG. Outer wall of the nasal fossa, with the three spongy bones and meatus: the nerves being shown as they would appear through the membrane if it were transparent.—a. Olfactory process, b. Ol- factor)' bulb (represented rather too short) resting on the cribriform plate. Below is seen the plexiform arrangement of the olfactory filaments on the upper and middle spongy bones, c. Fifth nerve within the cranium with its Gasserian ganglion, d. Its superior maxillary divi- sion, sending branches to Meckel's ganglion, and through that to the three spongy bones, where they anastomose with the olfactory filaments, and with s, branches of the nasal division of the ophthalmic nene. o. I'osterior palatine twigs from Meckel's ganglion, suppljang the soft and hard palate, t. Orifice of the Eustachian tube on the side of the pharynx, behind the lower spongy bone.—From Soemmerring, two-thirds diameter. animals, is prolonged backwards as far as the cerebral ventricles. This ventricle is lined with a delicate white layer, but with this exception, the whole olfactory lobe consists of gray matter. In particular it is to be observed, that the under portion, which reposes on the cribriform plate, and sends down the olfactory fila- ments, contains no tubular fibres. The olfactory filaments (figs. 106, 7, 8) are from fifteen to twenty-five in number, and, passing through the apertures of the cri- briform plate, may be seen, invested with fibrous sheaths derived from the dura mater, upon the deep or attached surface of the mucous membrane of the olfactory region. They here branch, and sparingly reunite in a plexiform manner, as they descend. They form a considerable part of the entire thickness of the membrane, and differ widely from the ordinary cerebral nerves in structure. They contain no white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into