Ot» INNERVATION. [chap. xvii. behind or within the first one hy wliich the light is converged, viz. the concavo-convex one formed hy the cornea and aqueous humor,—it is adapted to admit the greatest quantity of light to the lens, consistently with the correction of the spherical aberra- tion. The aberration of sphericity is further obviated by the increased density of the lens from its surface towards its centre, so that the rays falling on its middle region are made more convergent as they traverse it, than those passing near its border. Chromatic aberration, or that which occasions a coloured image by the inequality of the refraction of the elementary colours of white hght by the same medium, is in some way prevented in the human eye, when adjusted to distinct vision. The image formed by a convex lens is slightly coloured at its margin. This colouring is corrected in practice by a compound arrangement of lenses differing in shape and density, of which the second, while it continues the convergence of the rays from their original course, re-associates the dispersed colours and recomposes the white light. The achromatism of the eye may be in part due to the diversity of shape and density of the refractive media, which seem to bear some analogy to the system forming the achromatic object-glass of Herschell. This is formed of a double convex lens of crown- glass, with surfaces of unequal curvature, the more convex being turned towards the object; and of a concavo-convex of flint- glass, the concave side of which receives the lens of crown-glass, while its convex side is towards the eye. The cornea and aqueous humor form a concavo-convex lens which differs in density from the crystalline. It is possible that the greater density of the inner fibres of the lens may likewise share in producing the effect. But this entire subject is involved in much obscurity, and it is right to add that some very high authorities, including Sir D. Brewster, deny that the chromatic aberration receives any correction in the eye; that, in fact, it exists in all cases, and is imperceptible only in con- sequence of its being so slight. It may be observed that when the eye is not adjusted to distinct vision, a coloured fringe is seen around objects. If the eye be fatigued and incapable of adjustment, or if belladonna be used, then colours are seen. The rays of light which have now been traced to the retina, al- though they come to a focus in that membrane, yet can scarcely, from its extremely thin and transparent nature, be said to form an