CHAP. XXX.] bejrnard's researches. 429 of the nervous centres are accompanied with a diminution of temperature, and of the power of forming heat. Again, the tem- perature of paralized limbs is almost always less than that of sound limbs, and often so to a very marked degree. In some instances, however, twin lesions of the nervous system are followed by an opposite efiect. Much light has been thrown upon the influence of the nervous system upon the development of heat, by the recent highly interesting and important researches of M. Bernard. Bernard has lately established the very interesting fact, that section of the sympathetic nerve is followed by a considerable elevation of temperature in that side of the head or face corre- sponding to the divided trunk. This increase of temperature occurs immediately; and persists after all increased vascularity and turgescence have disappeared, and after the wound in the neck has quite healed. The same observer found that sections of nerves of motion and sensation produce respectively, besides paralysis, a diminution of temj)erature, Avhile, if a mixed nerve containing fibres of the sympathetic, as the facial, is divided, an exaltation of temperature takes place, arising, doubtless, from the division of the sympathetic fibres. The increase of temperature seems to be a special result of the division of the sympathetic. Now, if the upper extremity of the sympathetic, which has been di^ddcd in the neck of an animal, be subjected to an interrupted galvanic current, the exalted temperature which follows its di^dsion is no longer manifested, and the parts supplied by it actually fall below the normal standard, and they rise again when the current is stopped. When an animal, in which the sympathetic had been divided, was placed under the influence of chloroform, the tem- perature which had risen several degrees in consequence of the di^dsion of the nerve, fell, while it again rose when the animal had recovered from the eff'ects of the chloroform. Bernard has shown that the increased temperature following division of the sympathetic, or removal of the superior cervical ganglion, cannot be attributed solely to the increased quantity of blood which is allowed to enter the vessels in consequence of paralysis of their contractile coats; for it occurs when the blood is allowed to stagnate in the vessels by tying them. At the same time, it is necessary that the vessels should contain blood. The enlargement of the vessels and the increased flow of blood to the parts are to be looked upon as the result of the altered nutritive changes which take place in consequence of the division of the sympathetic, rather than as the cause of the rise of temperature.