VOMITING. CHAP. XXIV.] 211 these portions of the solid aliments which are absorbed by the stomach. Drinks, as water and various other liquids, fermented or not, are, doubtless, likewise in great part absorbed in the same way. All other kinds of food, and such remaining portions of the azotised or liquid aliments as have escaped absorption by the stomach, after having undergone to a certain extent maceration in it, are pushed onwards into other parts of the digestive tube there to undergo further changes to fit them for being absorbed. Eructation and Vomiting.—As there can be no doubt that the movements of the stomach are capable of pushing on the food towards the intestinal canal, it appears prima facie extremely probable that the same muscular force may cause it to evacuate its contents through the oesophagus, if there be any obstacle to their downward passage, too strong to be overcome.'" The mus- cular coat of the stomach, pressing by its passive contraction upon its contents, will cause them to pass in that direction which offers the least resistance. Now, in a state of health, the food, in order to return by the esophagus must not only overcome the passive contraction of the muscular coat of that tube, but it must also ascend against gravity. Moreover, the action of the fibres of the splenic extremity of the stomach favours the passage of the food toward the pylorus. Hence, not only is there least resistance at the pylorus, but there is likewise a vis a tergo, which favours the propulsion of the food in that direction. When, however, air accumulates at the cardia in such quantity as to distend that portion of the stomach, it opens the oesophagus by its expansile force, and from its lightness rushes up the oesopha- gus, carrying with it sometimes liquid or solid food. When air is generated in large quantity and with great rapidity, it is wonderful how much may escape in this way, and large quantities of food may be discharged from the stomach at the same time, solely by the convective force of the large bubbles of air ascending from it. This is eructation—it seems due solely to the presence of a large quantity of air in the stomach. Vomiting is an act of a more complex character than eructation ; by it solids and liquids may be expelled from the stomach through the oesophagus, even contrary to gravity. We must assume that a necessary condition for the production of the act of vomiting is the existence of obstruction at or near the pyloric portion of the * Tlic old and still prevalent notion of an inversion in the action of the stomach is most probably erroneous. The inversion is only apparent, not real. Sec an able paper by Dr. Brinton on this subject.—Lond. Med. Gazette, 1849.