[chap. XXVII. THE BLOOD. 292 Thirdly, the physical analysis of the blood, and the characters of its constituents. Fourthly, the chemical analysis of the blood. I. Of the Quantity of Blood in the Body.—It is almost impossible to obtain sufficiently accurate data upon which to found a calcula- tion of the total quantity of the blood which circulates in the vascular system. The various estimates which have been formed have been guesses, based on trials by bleeding animals to death, and comparing the weight of the blood drawn with that of the animal's body: also, on ascertaining, in various cases of hemor- rhage, or of venesection, the quantity of blood which had been lost in a brief period, without destruction to life. Harvey estimated the weight of the blood as one-twentieth of that of the body, and Haller at one-fifth. According to the former estimate, a man of one hundred and fifty pounds weight would have only about seven and a half pounds of blood, whilst the latter would assign him thirty pounds. Valentin devised an ingenious method of estimating the quantity of the blood. He first ascertains the amount of solid constituents in a certain quantity of blood, withdrawn by venesection: this is replaced by a certain quantity of distilled water, and then he ascertains the amount of solid constituents in a quantit}' of the now diluted blood equal to that which had been first withdrawn. From the data thus obtained he calculates the whole quantity of the fluid, which admits of such a change in its specific gravity, by the sub- stitution of a certain quantity of distilled Avater for the quantity of the fluid itself previously withdrawn. The problem is, to deter- mine the quantity of fluid of specific gravity B., which, on removing from it say six ounces, and replacing those six ounces by a certain quantity of distilled water, becomes reduced to the specific gravity |3. Having by this method determined the quan- tity of the blood in dogs, he deduces the quantity of blood in the human body by comparing the weight of men with that of dogs. And thus he assigns about thirty-two pounds for a man between thirty and forty years of age, and twenty-eight pounds for the female.* On the whole, we have no right to infer that the quantity of blood in the human body exceeds thirty pounds: and, for practical purposes, we shall do well to form a much lower estimate of it, and to learn from thence how important it is to avoid being prodigal in the removal of a fluid, so essential to the phenomena of life, * Valentin. Physiol.