DIGESTION. [chap. xxii. for this purpose, a special supply of carbonaceous material must be furulshed to the blood—and this is derived from the non-azotized alimentary substances. We prefer, then, the terms lately proposed by Dr. R. D. Thomson, namely, calorifacient for the non-nitrogen- ized substances, nutritive for the azotized matters. It is proper to notice that azotized matters may be calorifa- cient, inasmuch as they contain a large quantity of carbon; and it is known that large tribes of men live on animal food alone. A large number of North American Indians, according to Cattlin, live almost exclusively on the flesh of the buffalo, the only non-azotized food which they obtain being the fat belonging to it. In determining the nature of the diet to be furnished in order to preserve man in a healthy state, care must be taken to provide for the calorific as well as the nutrient function; and hence the ad- mixture of a certain quantity of non-azotized food is needed for the former function. In the cold northern climates the natives in- stinctively feed on fat and oily food, which contai'ns a large per centage of carbon; while the natives of the warm south feed on fruits, which, as Liebig says, contain no more than twelve per cent, of carbon. Milk, the food of the young, in whom the produc- tion of heat ought to be most active, contains, according to Dr. Thomson, two parts of calorifacient for one of nutritive matter. Eggs also contain nutritive matter in a concentrated form, consist- ing chiefly of pure albumen, to which a considerable quantity of calorifacient matter is added in the oleaginous yolk. The accumu- raulation of these substances, as a natural provision for the nourish- ment of the young, whilst yet under the sole guidance of the purest instinct, or, as in the egg, where the nutrient matter is directly ab- sorbed by the tissues of the embryo, affords the surest indication that a compound food, consisting of such elements, is necessary for perfect nutrition at this period of life. As age advances, or the generation of animal heat becomes less active, the quantity of calo- rifacient food required is less, and that of the purely nutrient food more. Experience justifies the conclusion to which our reasoning on these points leads, namely, that in the temperate climates the pro- per nutrient materials for infancy and childhood are milk, saccharine and amylaceous substances, the latter being combined with gluten; and that to these must be added a certain amount of gelatine, albumen, and fibrine, when the growth of the child and the more active play of its nervous and muscular systems calls for a fiirther supply of nitrogenized food. In adult life, azotized substances are