USE OF THE BILE. CHAP, XXV.] 261 in them to a great extent, so as to occasion enormous enlargement of that oro-an. And in some fishes the liver is naturally, at certain periods, loaded with it. It is a point of great interest to determme, whether this fat simply accumulates in the hepatic cells, as it does in other tissues, or whether it may not be regarded as a part of the secretion of the liver; in other words, can it be a part of the office of the liver to recombine certain elements of the absorbed food, and to form fat, which, on being discharged into the intestinal canal, is absorbed by the villi?* In connexion with this subject we may refer here to a remark- able fact lately brought to light by Bernard, which denotes that chemical changes take place in the blood while it is passing- through the liver, whereby a material is generated in it which had not been introduced in the food. Bernard has found that sugar is developed in the hepatic capil- laries, even when it is not present in the intestines, or in any of the tributary veins of the vena portjB. A dog, which had been fed some hours previously on substances destitute of starch and sugar, was quickly killed, the abdominal cavity was immediately opened, and ligatures were placed on the mesenteric, splenic, and pancreatic veins, and on the trunk of the vena porta;. Blood collected from each of these sources, on the distal side of the ligature, proved on examination destitute of sugar in all, except the vena porta;, in which it was readily detected. Sugar was also found in the tissue of the liver itself. If, then, sugar exists in the vena portse, but not in its tributai-y veins, how does it get to the former? As it exists in the tissue of the liver, it is evident that it passes to the vena porta; by the reflux which, in the absence of valves in the portal system, may take place after death. Hence it is reasonable to infer that sugar is formed in the hepatic capillaries, and carried by the hepatic veins to the right side of the heart, in the blood of which ]3ernard states that sugar is constantly present, whatever food the animal may have been fed on, and even after a long fast. The evidence of the presence of sugar in the liver is obtained in the following manner:—a portion of the liver is beaten in a mortar, and then boiled in a small quantity of water, and filtered. The filtered liquid possesses all the properties of a saccharine fluid ; it becomes darker on being boiled with liquor potassa;, and the * It is true that tlie fatty matter of the bile is not free; but it may be supposed to form its combinations after it bas been discharged from tlie hepatic cells and while it is ])assing through the ducts of the liver. '