DIGESTION. [chap. XXII. 160 secretion of gas into the stomach, and sometimes actual pain, accom- pany this state. When these sensations are not relieved by their appropriate stimulus food, the effects of fasting begin to shew themselves. The body now feeds upon itself—in other words, the process of de- structive assimilation is the only source from whence the blood de- rives its materials of supply. All the tissues shew the effects of impaired nutrition in the deficient manifestation of their vital powers—the animal loses weight, and, according to Chossat, this loss is most rapid the few days immediately preceding death. The tissue Avhich wastes most is fat, and those which lose least are the osseous tissue and the nervous. There is also great loss of heat; Chossat states that the daily fall was half a degree of Fahrenheit; but on the last day it fell much more rapidly, reducing the temper- ature to 77°. The stomach is much contracted, and its mucous membrane thrown into thick folds or rugse. The gall bladder is generally full to distension, the intestines are contracted like the stomach ; according to Collard de Martigny, the lymphatics become full in the first ten days of fasting, but afterwards their contents de- crease considerably. The respiratory movements become slow, and the pulse falls considerably in frequency. The urine becomes scanty, and all the parenchymatous organs are remarkable for their paleness. Furious delirium frequently manifests itself, when the loss of strength becomes considerable. A similar delirium sometimes ensues where too rigid an abstinence has been observed in the treatment of dis- ease. The period at which death occurs from protracted abstinence varies greatly; young animals die sooner than old ones. Dogs live from twenty-five to thirty-six days. In man, total privation is not borne above a week. By the aid of a little drink, given now and then, life may be prolonged considerably, and instances are recorded where it continued for eighteen or nineteen days, or even for thirty days. Dr. Willan saw a gentleman who voluntarily abstained from every- thing but water, flavoured with orange juice, for sixty days, and then died. Medical men, however, should exercise much circum- spection in cases of professed abstinence, numerous impostures having been practised on this subject. Thirst results from a peculiar state of the mucous membrane of the digestive tube, but more especially of the mucous membrane of the moulh and fauces, caused by the imperfect supply of liquid. A sense of clamminess in the mouth, pharynx, and even down the eso- phagus, accompanies extreme thirst. The thirst in fevers is probabi}