THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. 374 which permits them to receive a greater quantity of blood from the heart, and to a minus state of the capillary force, the other to a plus condition of that force,—in virtue of which the tissue at- tracts a greater quantity of blood. To this latter form of con- gestion pathologists give the name of inflammation. Its pheno- mena, as observed under the microscope, are such as a vis a tergo alone could not develope. For not only are there dilatations of the vessels of the inflamed part, and a great afflux of blood towards a certain point or points in it, but the blood-corpuscles seem to rush thither, as if forcibly attracted towards each other, and also to some common focus. And the rapid and copious process of exudation, and the formation of pus-cells, which are so apt to follow an attack of inflammation, aftord further strong indication of augmented vital force in the inflamed part.''*^ So also in growing tissues, and in organs which enlarge at particular times, or under certain circumstances, the increased flow of blood to the part is a phenomenon in close analogy with the increased flow of sap to a bud ; and is due not to a vis a tergo, or to a relaxed state of blood-vessels, but to a demand from the tissue for more blood, an attractive force, by which the direction is regulated, and the quantity also. The annual re- newal of the antlers of the stag, the enlargement of the testes of birds at particular seasons, that of the breasts of women during pregnancy and after parturition, all these cases atFord instances in which a demand for blood is created at some point of the periphery, and a greater flow is established to the organs there placed than previously took place to them. We can afford no satisfactory explanation of the localization of certain changes in the capillary circulation, unless on the hypothesis that the constituent elements of the affected parts are primarily diseased, and that their demand for blood is, in consequence, increased or diminished, and the flow of blood regulated accord- ingly. Thus the developement of gout in a joint takes place often with such rapidity that it appears to the patient to be sudden ; the train of phenomena being in such cases, first, a change in the tissues, so gradual as to be unperceived, then, an increased flow of blood to such an extent as to cause the heat, the throbbing, and pain which characterize such affections. Again, certain poisons, which seem as it were to spend their force, in great part at least, on the skin, do not cause a change in the whole capillary circulation so much as * The theory of inflammation is extremely well discussed in Mr. J. Simon's Lectures on Pathology, Lect. IV. See also Mr. Pagct's Lectures on Inflammation.