INNERVATION. 40 [chap. XVII. its axis, along which it runs to the interior of the eye, in a canal of fibrous tissue. This branch them radiates to supply the retina, and in the foetus sends forwards a twig to the lens. It is accompanied everywhere by corresponding veins. Other nerves are distributed to the eye, which are connected with the nutrient and other actions of the eyeball. These are derived from the ophthalmic division of the fifth, from the third pair, and from the sympathetic. It is remarkable, however, that all these nerves, with two exceptions, between their origin and their dis- tribution in the globe of the eye, meet in a small ganglion situated on the outer side of the optic nerve, called the ophthalmic or len- ticular ganglion. This body is usually considered a portion of the cephalic division of the sympathetic ; it is connected with the superior cervical ganglion by a long branch which ascends from the carotid plexus along the carotid artery, and enters the orbit. A long nerve from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth also joins this ganglion at its superior and posterior angle, and a short thick branch from the third nerve joins the ganglion at its inferior posterior angle. From the anterior angles of the ganglion thus formed, proceed two bundles of delicate nerves, from twelve to sixteen in number {ciliary nerves), which, after having pierced the sclerotic at its posterior third, pass between that tunic and the choroid, and are distributed chiefly to the ciliary muscle and iris, but also to the cornea. From the nasal branch of the ophthalmic there proceed two long nerves, called long ciliary nerves, which do not form any connexion with the ophthalmic ganglion. These nerves pass off in company, but soon separate from each other, one going to the inner, the other to the outer side of the eyeball; they penetrate the sclerotic, and accompany the other ciliary nerves in their distribution to the ciliary muscle and iris. The eye is moved by six muscles, four straight and two oblique. The former arise from the margin of the optic foramen, at the apex of the orbit, and are inserted into the sclerotic near the cornea, above, below, and on each side. The superior oblique arises with the recti, but has its direction changed by a pulley of fibrous tissue at the upper and inner part of the margin of the orbit; whence it passes backwards, outwards, and downwards, under the superior rectus muscle to the sclerotic behind the transverse median plane of the globe, between the superior and external recti. The inferior oblique arises from the lower part of the margin of the orbit, about its inner third, and passing backwards, outwards, and up-