CUM', xxviii.] CAVITIES AND VALVES OF THE IIEAIIT. 333 coronary artery and vein : the posterior the right coronary artery and vein. These are accompanied by nerves. A transverse groove of considerable depth separates the auricles from the ven- tricles ; it contains the coronary vein. All the grooves contain a greater or less quantity of fat, which envelopes the vessels and nerves lodged in them. Of the four cavities of the human heart, a ventricle and auricle are on each side of the median groove. The ventricles are cone- shaped cavities, their apices being directed towards the apex of the lieart, their bases corresponding to the auricles. The left ventricle forms the apex of the heart. When the right ventricle is dilated, its wall extends to, and contributes to form, the apex. Each ven- tricle, when laid open, exhibits two distinct parts; one, which communicates with the auricle by a large and free aperture, called the auriciblo-ventricular orifice, through which the blood passes from the auricle into the ventricle; the other, called the infundihuhim, a funnel-shaped channel, which leads to the artery, and through which the blood is propelled into it from the cavity of the ventricle. The Valves of the Heart. — The auriculo-ventricular orifice on each side is guarded by certain valves which, when not in action, lie in the ventricle. The valve of the left side consists of two triangular curtains, from the free margin and part of the ventricular sui'facc of which tendinous chords {chordae, tendineee) pass to various points of the wall of the ventricle. The bases of these curtains are attached along a fibrous zone, which separates the auricle from the ventricle. This valve is known by the name of the mitral 'oalve, and the orifice is called the mitral orifice; the larger curtain is that which separates the infundibuhim from the body of the ventricle. The valve at the right auriculo-ventricular orifice, consists of three portions, each having a pointed free extremity extending into the ventricle, and connected to its wall by tendinous cords. Hence this is called the tricuspid valve. The base of each segment cor- responds to the fibrous zone which intervenes between the auricle and ventricle. Of the three curtains, of which the tricuspid valve consists, the largest is anterior, and the next in size corresponds to the infundibulum of the ventricle. At each of the arterial orifices of the ventricles there are three valves of semilunar form (Fig. 199), which effectually close the 1 mouth of the artery against the regurgitation of blood into the ven- tricle. Each of these valves has a convex border attached along the fibrous zone which connects the artery to the infundibulum of the ventricle; and a free concave border divided by a small round body