404 [cilAP. XXIX. RESriRATlON. conclitions under which the organs are placed do not allow of their expelling this remnant. If now the deepest possible inspiration be taken it is found that they are capable of inhaling a further quan- tity, varying much in different persons, but on an average about 240 cubic inches, which, with the former residual quantity, make a sum of 280 cubic inches as the full capacity of the lungs of a person of good height (5 feet 8 inches). I3ut in ordinary breathing the lungs are neither very empty, nor very full — they maintain a middle condition, and their range of movement in natural or ordi- nary respiration, is only sufficient to pump in and out a quantity of air equal to about 30 cubic inches. From the best ohservations it may be concluded, that a person whose full capacity is 280 cubic inches, contains in his lungs, after an ordinary expiration, about 110 cubic inches; and after an ordinary inspiration about 140 cubic inches, a quantity which he is enabled to double by a full in- spiration. Thus rather more than one-fifth of the ordinary contents of the lungs are expelled at each expiration, and again renewed bv inspiration. Dr. Hutchinson, by means of a gasometer, which he terms a spirometer, has examined a large number of persons with reference to their power of taking air into the lungs. The person first in- spires to the full extent, and then breathes into the instrument as much air as lie can, and it results that the height of the individuals has much to do with their respiratory range. Thus, while on an average a person of 5 feet breathes 174 cubic inches ; one of 5 feet 1 inch will breathe 182 cubic inches, and for every inch of height up to 6 feet will breathe about 8 cubic inches additional. Weight has much less influence than height, but tends to diminish the respira- tory power when beyond a certain limit. In males of the same height, the respiratory range (vital capacity of Hutchinson) in- creases from 15 to 35 years of age ; but from 35 to 65 it decreases nearly 1^ cubic inches per year. Bourgery agrees nearly with this : he states that more air can be inspired at thirty than at any other age, and that in old persons the range is very limited. Bour- gery calculates that a child of ten years of age, with a weight three times less than that of a man of eighty, has a respiratory power eight times greater. This is due to the great difference there is in the range of the respiratory movements. The old man being able to increase the amount breathed by less than a half, while the child may increase it nearly fourteenfold. Herbst has shown that the ca- pacity of the lungs is much smaller in the female than in the male. Having now considered the anatomy of the respiratory organs,