497 REACTION. CHAP. XXXIV.] tions, such as sudden joy, or fright, or anxiety, will cause the secretion of urine having a much larger proportion of water than usual. All these circumstances, and many others of less importance, have been found to affect the characters of healthy urine; and, on this account, consider- able difficulty has been felt in attempting to define the precise characters of the secretion in health. Again, the composition of the urine diffei-s at dif- ferent periods of Hfe, but in a much less degree in different individuals at the same period. The urine of men, in the prime of life, contains more solid matter, and less water, than that of old men, women, or children. Quantity of Urine.—The quantity of urine discharged in the course of twenty-four hours, in a state of health, varies very much, but it may be said to amount to about 30 or 40 ounces. The density varies from 1-010 to 1-020 or 1-02.0 and the quantity of solid matter from 4 or 5 to 8 per cent. The amount of solid matter eliminated from the kidneys of a healthy man who lives well may be roughly stated to be about 1000 grains in twenty-four hours. Reaction.—Healthy urine exhibits an acid re-action; but the intensity of the re-action varies at cei'tain periods of the day. Dr. Bence J ones, who has lately investigated this subject, found that the urine was most acid immedi- ately before meals, and the intensity of the acidity diminishes until five or six hours after the meal. This condition, occurring in the urine secreted soon after digestion, dejaends upon the quantity of alkali set free in the blood in consequence of the decomposition of certain salts which furnish the acid entering into the composition of the gastric juice. The re-action of healthy urine has been attributed to the presence of free lactic acid, and also to acetic acid; but the in- vestigations of Lie big have rendered it proba- ble that it depends, not upon the existence of free or uncombined acid, but upon the pre- sence of certain salts which exhibit a deci- dedly acid re-action, although there is no fi-ee or uncombined acid. Such salts are presented to us in the phosphates, which have the property of being veiy readily changed from the alkaUue to the acid, or super-salt. After standing for some hours, healthy urine deposits a shght pi-ecipitate, forming a light flocculent cloud, consisting of vesical mucus, and a little epithelial debris. This deposit is much more abundant in the urine of women, in conse- quence of the admixture of a considerable quantity of vaginal epithelium. Not unfrequently, epithehum from the urethra, or bladder, will be found in a. Various fonns of lithic acid crystals. 6. Deposit of lithate of soda, amorplious. c. Litliate of soda forming spherules witti irre- gular crystals projecting from them, d. Oxalate of lime. e. Dumb- bell crystals of oxalate or oxalurate of lime.