THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. 382 Herin«T Was the first to experiment on this suhject, his object being to ascertain how soon a substance easily recognized (as ferro- cyanide of potassium), when introduced into one part of the circu- lation, as the right jugular vein, could be detected in a distant part of the circulation as the left jugular. Hering found that this sub- stance would pass from the right to the left jugular veins in from twenty to thirty seconds; and from the jugular vein to the great saphena in twenty seconds; from the jugular vein to the masseteric artery in from fifteen to thirty seconds. Results quite confirmatory have been obtained from like experiments by Poiseuille, and also by Blake. The former found that ferrocyanide of potassium, Avith acetate of ammonia, or nitrate of potash, passed from one jugular vein to the other, in from eighteen to twenty-four seconds; but that the addition of alcohol retarded the rate of transit to from forty to forty-five seconds. Blake found that nitrate of baryta passed from the jugular vein of a horse to the opposite carotid artery in from fifteen to twenty seconds. He found also that the poisonous influence of strychnia on the nervous system, showed itself in twelve seconds after injection into the jugular vein ; in a fowl, in six seconds and a half; and in a rabbit in four seconds and a half.'^' The results obtained from calculation as regards the rate of the circulation, are less conclusive than those by experiments, for tlio obvious reason that we have only the approximative value of the two principal quantities which enter into the calculation, namely, that of the mass of blood in the body, and that expelled at each systole. But the results of the two modes of inquiry are suffi- ciently near to each other, to denote that the round of the circula- tion is completed by any given portion of blood in a marvellously brief period, which, in man, probably, rather falls below than exceeds a minute. We need not, therefore, have recourse to any other hypothesis to explain the rapid eflects of certain poisons, than weight of the body, and as from Volkmann's rescarclies the quantity expelled at each systole of the ventricle is ^Jjth of the weight of the body, calling this weight p, then x =- p and 1/ = — p, and t = 2 —L tlierefore t = 80 z, whence 5 400 p, it appears that the time of the circulation is directly as the duration of a pulsCj and inversely as its frequency. * Ilcring in Tiedemann and Treviranus Zcitschrift fur Physiol, b. iii. Poiseuille'f Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1843. Blake Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1841. Sec also on this subject Volkmann's 10th chapter.