CHAP. XXIX.J 411 CHANGES IN THE BLOOD. exlialed from the lungs of man, was ahout y^th of the amount of carbonic acid removed in the same time. It must also be observed, that a very small proportion of nitrogen is constantly being expired in the form of ammonia. Changes in the Bloodresulting from Respiration—Baxk venous blood in its passage through the capillary vessels of the lungs assumes the bright red colour characteristic of arterial blood. This change, as is Avell known, depends upon the removal of carbonic acid gas and the absorption of oxygen. Magnus showed that venous blood con- tained 25 per cent, of its volume of cai'bonic acid, and 5 per cent, of oxygen; and that arterial blood, on the other hand, contained as much as 10 per cent, of its volume of oxygen, and only 20 per cent, of carbonic acid. The seat of this change is clearly in the red blood corpuscles; but its precise nature has not yet been satisfactorily determined. It has been ascribed to a chemical change taking place in the coloured constituent of the blood globule (page 304), Imt later researches render it probable that it is, at least in some measm-e, due to a physical alteration. Henle was the first ob- seiwer who referred the change of colour in the blood corpuscle to a change in its form. Scherer states that the blood corpuscles of venous blood are nearly spherical, and their walls thin and transparent, a condition Avhich causes them to transmit light freely. On the other hand, the corpuscles of arterial blood are bi-concave, their walls thicker, and they reflect light mofc readily, which is considered to account for the brighter colour of arterial blood. Harless has even been able to measui'c the difference in size between the blood corpuscles of arterial and venous blood of the frog. Magnus proved that serum would dissolve twice as much car- bonic acid as an equal quantity of pure water, a power which Liebig attributed to the amount of phosphate of soda contained in blood serum. Of the gases existing in the blood, a very small proportion only is in chemical combination with any of the constituents of that fluid, but the greater quantity is held in solution in a free and uu- combined state. This is readily proved by passing a current of hydrogen gas through some defibrinated blood placed in a bottle to which tubes are adapted. The hydrogen takes the place of the gases previously held in solution and the latter escape; and by causing them to pass through lime-water, evidence of the presence of much carbonic acid is at once obtained bv the formation of a precipitate of carbonate of lime. If the carbonic acid had existed E E 2