486 KIDNEY. [chap. XXXIV. even here it has only a faintly granular appearance^ and we have been unable to see any distinct fibres. It appears to us that this structure is of little physiological im- portance ; it probably serves as a support for the tubes and capillary vessels. As the tortuous tubes in the cortex pass in and out amongst the interspaces of this matrix^ portions appear to be circumscribed^ as it wercj giving the idea upon a section of a number of small cysts^* an appearance which is often very marked in certain cases of disease, when the tubes are enlarged. In the kidneys of many rodents, especially in that of the mouse, this appearance exists in a very marked degree, in consequence of the highly developed con- dition of the matrix in these animals; but, in all the instances alluded to, the true structure of this part, and often the continuity of the tube as it winds in and out, can be demonstrated with ease. A thin section of the cortical part of the kidney, made in any direction, displays these interspaces containing sections of the tubes, between which may often be seen vessels Avhich have been cut across. Uriniferous Tubes.—The uriniferous tubes, formerly termed tubes of Bellini, in which the characteristic elements of the urine are se- creted, consist of two distinct portions, as already alluded to; the first, or highly convoluted part of the tubes, which is probably the sole seat of true secretion, and the straight portion, which is directly continuous with the former, and conducts the secretion towards the opening upon the mamilla, from which it passes into the pelvis of the kidney. In the other direction, the convoluted portion of the tube terminates in a dilated extremity, which completely invests the vessels of the Malpighian tuft.f We shall now consider, first, the minute structure of the Malpighian bodies; secondly, that of the convoluted portion of the tube ; and, lastly, that of the straight portion. Malpighian Bodies.—The Malpighian bodies are met with in all vertebrata. In the mammalian kidney, where there exists a division into cortical and medullary portions, they are only found in the former. In an injected specimen, they appear, to the unaided eye, as coloured points abundantly scattered throughout the cortex of the organ. They vary much in size in difierent * On Diseases of the Kidneys, by George Johnson, M.D. t Phil. Trans., 1842.