426 [chap. XXX. ANIMAL HEAT. organized bodies, it is necessary to remember, that the heat dis- engaged during the oxidation of carbon or of a metal (i. e. during the combustion of these bodies) is directly proportioned to the amount and not to the intensity of the chemical action. In the words of a distinguished chemist, " The rod of iron that is burnt in oxygen gas, produces a heat which no one will deny; but the iron which rusts slowly in the air, disengages just as much heat, although its temperature never rises sensibly above that of the surrounding atmosphere. Phosphorus alight burns brilliantly, and produces abundance of heat; phosphorus in the cold, still burns, but with little lustre, and the heat which it evolves was for a long time denied."'^ It has been already stated (p. 152-4) that a large portion of tho food being destitute of nitrogen, is not the best adapted to form part of the tissues of the body into the composition of which that element enters. This calorifacient food (consisting of various quantities of carbon in combination with oxygen and hydrogen, in the proportion in which these last form water, as starch, sugar, cellulose, or gum, or of carbon and hydrogen in combination with a less proportion of oxygen in fatty matters) seems to be devoted in the main to the pro- duction of heat by the combination of its carbon and hydrogen with the oxygen furnished by respiration. It is a question through what changes it passes ere thus consumed; but of its eventual destination to the production of heat there would appear to be no doubt. As was shown in the chapter on Respiration, more oxygen is taken into the blood by the lungs than is required to form the carbonic acid exlialcd. This superfluous oxygen disappears, the greater part appearing to enter into combination with hydrogen, while a small quantity goes to oxidize the sulphur and phos- phorus. The air breathed is likewise found to have lost bulk. Now gaseous carbonic acid contains its own bulk of oxygen— but oxygen uniting with hydrogen to form water is condensed. Such a condensation of the. oxygen would accord with the observed diminution of bulk in air by being respired. It has been remarked that herbivorous animals return to the air, as carbonic acid, only nine out of ten of the volumes of oxygen absorbed in respiration, and that carnivorous animals return in the same form, only five or six out of ten volumes. The carnivora, then, absorb nearly twice as much oxygen as they employ for oxidizing carbon, and a very large proportion of the remainder, no donbt, combines with hydrogen to form water. * Dumas, " Balance of Organic Nature," p. 37.