THE STRUCTURE OF VEINS. CHAP. XXVIII.] 325 its way by a reflex course to the distal part of the trunk of the artery, and to the wound. This is very apt to occur in wounds of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. The only and the obvious method of guarding against such an elFect of arterial ana- stomosis is to apply a ligature to two points of the artery, viz., below the wound, as well as above it. The supply of blood to various segments of the body through ditferent channels, and the free communication of these channels with each other, must be regarded as one of the most beautiful of the various mechanical contrivances in the human body. By such an arrangement a considerable security is obtained against the failure of the nutrition of the limb by the stoppage of one of its channels. And modern surgery is largely indebted to it for one of its most brilliant triumphs. The passage of the blood into a limb or organ through various channels serves to distribute it more equally, and to relieve the ele- mentary constituents of the limb or organ from the impetus which the entrance into it of a single large column of blood would occasion. This provision is especially secured for the brain by the subdivision of the four great streams of blood which enter the cranium into several minor ones at the base of that organ, which again undergo extreme subdivision before they penetrate the nervous matter. In animals that hold their heads low the subdivision of the carotid and of the vertebral arteries is very remarkable, and gives rise to the formation of the different kinds of rete mirahile. The most remarkable instance of the subdivision of arteries prior to the penetration of the tissue they are destined to nourish is that described by Sir A. Carlisle in the Sloth, which seems to be con- nected with the extraordinary power enjoyed by those animals of sustaining muscular action for a lengthened period. The anastomosis of the smaller arterial ramifications are also of great importance in many of the organs and tissues, especially under the skin and mucous membranes. Here a membranous expan- sion is supplied by a great number of distinct twigs which form a plexus everywhere continuous, and which again gives rise to other smaller plexuses before the ultimate capillaries are given off. To this form of anastomosis of the smaller arteries may perhaps be ascribed the tendency of some inflammations of membranous parts to be propagated rapidly along an extensive surface, as in \ erysipelas. In some organs, as the kidney, the arterial twigs have no anastomosis whatever. » Of the Ferns.—The veins carry the blood back to the heart from