[chap. xxv. DIGESTION 220 that of the body as three to one, in the hedgeliog as six to one; in a mole ex- amined by ourselves, which measured from snout to tail seven inches, the intestinal canal from pylorus to anus measured four feet three inches. In the Cheiroptera a very marked distinction exists in the form of the intestinal canal between the frugivorous and insectivorous genera. In the former, as in Pteropus, it presents numerous coils, and is in length seven times that of the body —the coecum is absent. In the latter the canal is extremely short, bearing to the length of the body the proportion of two or three to one as in Vespertilio noctulu. Much variety exists as regards both the form and length of the intestinal canal in the Edentata. The distinction between large and small intestine is not evident in many of the genera. In the Manis and Jiradi/pus there is no trace of a coecum : on the other hand the two-toed ant-eater ("Mymiecophuga didactylaJ has, according to Daubenton and Meckel, two small and narrow coecal appendages resembling those of birds, situated at the confines of the two portions of the intestine ; the orifices of these coeca are so small that the foecal matter cannot find its way into them. Mr. Owen has preserved in the Hunterian collection a specimen from the weazel-headed armadillo ( Dusi/pus inustelinus), of two similar cceca between which the ileum terminates. The terminal aperture of this intestine is of a slit-like form, and from its position between the coeca it admits of being eifectually closed by the lateral pressure of the contents of the coeca.* Great length and wide calibre are the characteristics of the intestinal canal in Kuminants, Solipeds, and Pachydermata. In the sheep, which belongs to the rumi- nant order, the intestine is in length thirty times that of the body, and in the horse, according to a measurement made by us, the intestinal canal was eighty-seven and a half feet in length. There are numerous convolutions of the small intestines in cacli of these orders, and a large capacious cojcum, from which the wide and con- voluted colon is continued. In Ruminants neither the coecum nor the colon is sacculated by longitudinal bands, whilst both the Solipeds and Pachydermata ex- hibit the sacculated character in a very marked degree, and the bands of longitu- dinal muscular fibres are very highly developed, extending from the blind extre- mity of the coecum to the rectum. There is no ilio-ccecal valve, properly so called, in these orders, but the passage from the ileum to the coecum (a foot and a half long in the horse) is very much contracted, and its inner membrane thrown into six or eight thick longitudinal folds, which are closely applied to each other and keep the canal closed. Tlie coecum in each of the orders is very capacious ; in the Ruminants, the capacity of this portion of intestine somewhat exceeds that of the fourth stomach according to Meckel. In the Solipeds the coecum is still more capacious. Meckel asserts that it is capable of containing more than three times as much liquid as the stomach. In Pachydermata the coecum is shorter and wider than in the other orders: it is, according to Meckel, less capacious than the stonmch.f The Rodentia have, in general, a very long and convoluted intestinal canal. The small intestine has a mesentery of considerable length; its calibre is small and pretty uniform throughout, being however largest superiorly. In most of the Rodent genera the ca?cum is of very great size, and in some it occupies a large portion of the abdominal cavity; in the omnivorous rodents, however, as the rat, * Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, vol. i. p. 219, 729, A. t See Sir E. Home's plates of the coeca of several mammiferous animals, plates cxiii. et seq. vol. ii.