434 VOICE. [chap. XXXI. movement of the one cartilage may take place on the other, round an axis passing transversely through the cricoid. By this move- ment, the crico-thyroid space may be enlarged or diminished ac- cording as the cartilages separate from or approximate each other in front. Firj. 2! 1. A. Tliyroid cartiliiKC. a. The notch, b. Superior cornu. c. Inferior cornu. d. Slight prominence at mertian lines of inferior margin for the attadiment of crico-thyroid ligament. g, h. Superior and inferior tubercles, e. Ala. /. Iom\xm Adami. U. Cricoid cartilage seen from the side. a. Posterior superior margin, b. Articulating surface of arytenoid cartilages. /. Superior descending margin. A. Tlie right surface articu- lating with inferior cornu of thjTold. 0. The right arytenoid cartilage, a. Base; position of the crico-arytenoid articulating grooves, e. lateral prominence at base, which gives attachment to the crico-arytcnoideus lateralis and posticus, d, b. convc.t triangular surfaces for the attachment of the superior th>TO-arytcnoid ligaments. /. coniiculum laiyngis; between / and e, the posterior aspect of the ai-j'tenoid cartilage and concave surfaces giving attachment to the oblique and transverse arytenoid muscles. </. Vertical portion of cuneiform cartihige. The arytenoid cartilages are two pyramidal bodies articulated by their bases with the oval articular surfaces, already de- scribed on the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage. Each presents a concave posteiior surface in which is implanted the arytenoid muscle which passes from one cartilage to the other; an inner smooth surface covered by mucous membrane, and an outer surface which gives attachment to the crico-arytenoid muscles. From the anterior angles of the bases of the arytenoid cartilages proceed the vocal chords to be inserted into the angle of the thyroid. The mobility of the articulation of the arytenoids with the cricoid, and their connexion with the vocal ligaments give them great im- portance in the mechanism of the larynx. The cornicula and the cuneiform cartilages are placed beneath the mucous membrane—the former at the apex, the latter parallel to the anterior border of tlie arytenoid cartilages.