CHAP, xviii.] THE SPIRAL LAMINA OF THE COCHLEA. 77 .ft Being uncertain respecting the office of this stmcture, we shall term it the dentiadate lamina (figs. 137, and 138), from a beautiful series of teeth, forming its outer margin, which project free into the vestibular scala, and, p.^ j3j, in the first coil, terminate almost on a level with the margin of the osseous zone, but more within this margin towards the apex of the cochlea. They thus constitute a kind of second margin to the os- seous zone, on the vesti- bular side of the true margin, and having a groove beneath them, which runs along the whole lamina spiralis, in ^ the vestibular scala, im- mediately above the true margin of the osseous section of the cochlear canal, where the scalje are equal. I'll ' f o Mrolc! lio ^'^''^'^ vestibuli. st. Scala tympani. o. Osseous zone of zone. J.ne intervals Oe- lamma spiralis, d. Denticulate lamina, m. Membranous zone. , ,1 J. i.1 „ 1,^ c. Cochlearis muscle, r. Osseous rim of the groove of the tween the teeth are to be cochiearis. +1 a m->i-.ov onv Margin of osscous zonc, morc magnified. s«. Scala vcsti- Seen on tneir Uppei SUl- jjyn gcala tympani. g Groove, between d, denticulate •Por-o r>n +1npir fvpp Pflo-P lamina, and membranous zone springing from edge of the race, on tneil Ilcc tJUgU, osseous zone. n. Cochlear nerves and capillaries, distributed on and also within this the tympanic surface of the osseous zone. groove, so that the teeth are wedge-shaped, and their upper and under surfaces, traced from the free edge, recede. The free projecting part, or teeth of the denticulate lamina form less than a fourth of its entire breadth, and in the remainder of its extent it appears to rest on the osseous zone; seen from above, after the osseous zone has been rendered more transparent by weak hydro- chloric acid, (fig. 138) rows of clear lines may be traced from the teeth at the convex edge, towards the opposite or concave edge of the lamina. These lines appear to be a structure resembling that of the teeth themselves, and they are separated from one another by rows of clear, highly refracting granules, which render the intervals very distinct. These intervals, as seen in the figure, are more or less sinuous and irregularly branched. The denticulate lamina, thus placed on the vestibular surface of the osscous zone, is above, and at some distance from the plexus of the cochlear nerves, which lies near its tympanic surface. The vestibular