442 [chap. XXXI, VOICE. glottis. By increasing the weight which stretches the vocal chords, the height of the notes is raised; on the other hand, the relaxation of tlie chords lowers the notes: a register of about three octaves may be formed in this way. Even after all the parts which lie over the vocal chords have been removed, these variations of sound may still be produced. The action of the vocal organ in man appears to approach more nearly to that of a reed instrument than to a stringed instru- ment. The former is characterized by being provided with a flexible vibrating tongue, against which the air can be propelled so as to throw the tongue into vibration, and to excite a musical sound. Such is the mechanism in the organ-pipe, hautboy, bassoon, accordion, and other instruments; the form and disposi- tion of the tongue, and the material of which it is made, differing in each instrument. Chest Voice.—In the larynx, as before remarked, the note may be changed, by varying the tension of the vocal chords, pro- vided they be parallel and sufficiently close to each other. When a high note is to be produced, the head is raised and the larynx elevated, in order that the vocal chords may be rendered tense; on the other hand, if we Avish to sound a very low note, the chin must be depressed upon the chest, so as to facilitate the relaxa- tion of the vocal ligaments. At the same time, the strength of the blast of air exerts a considerable influence upon the pitch of the note. In reed instruments, it has been found that the note can be rendered higher by increasing the force of the blast. Falsetto Notes.—The sounds to which we have been referring are produced solely by the vibration of the chordte vocales; modified no doubt by the epiglottis, soft palate, etc., and the laryngeal caAaty below. These notes are all termed chest notes j but in man tones can be generated very different from those which can be imitated by experiments upon the dead larynx. These are the ftilsetto notes. The precise mode of their production is obscure. From the experiments of Miiller and Lehfeldt, it is probable that these falsetto notes are produced by the vibra- tion of the inner portion of the borders of the vocal Hgameuts solely. Magendie and Mayo accounted for them upon the view, that only half the length of the chords was thrown into vibration. Mr. Bishop has shown, that in the transition from the chest note to the falsetto note the crico-thyi'oid chink opens, having been closed immediately before, during the production of the highest note of the chest voice; so that the vocal ligaments become relaxed.