STRUCTURE OF THE ABSORBENTS. CHAP. XXVI ■] 273 Fig.169. A. Longitudinal wavy fibres on the inner surface of the contractile transverse fibres of the thoracic duct of the horse. —Blagnified 80 diameters. B. Stratum of nucleated ei)ithclial cells lining the lym- phatic vessels.—From a large lymphatic on the trarhea of a horse. Magnified 320 diameters. of a single layer of extremely delicate nucleated particles, first no- ticed by Henle. They are usually spindle-shaped, and fitted side-ways to each other (fig. 169 B). The valves (fig. 170 C) are formed by a process of fibrous membrane standing off into the vessel, probably with a covering of the epi- thelium. They are mostly in pairs, of a crescentic shape, the convex edge at- tached, the concave free, and when in action consti- tute a perfect barrier, the wall of the vessels immedi- ately above them being bulged into a sinus, so as to give the canal a beaded appear- ance when distended. Mr. Lane has observed that some of the valves are single and circular, with a central per- foration, and therefore in- complete — while others are unequal in size. Contractility of the ahsorh- ent vessels. — This depends on the contractile tissue of their proper coat. The pro- perty may be demonstrated by mechanically irritating a large vessel, such as the thoracic duct, in an animal just killed — it undergoes slow contraction. The ab- sorbent vessels continue to A. One of the inguinal lymphatic glands injected with I ., . mercury, a. Afferent lymphatic vessel from the lower ex- propel tneU' contents, even trcmity. a. Efferent vessel. Others are also seen. 1 „ , H. One of the superficial lymphatic trunks of the thigh. Wnen tne current irom the C. Oue of tlie femoral lymphatic truuk-s, laid open longi. , -i ' T tudinally to display the valves within it. c. Sinus between primary networks is arrested the valve and the wall of the vessel. (I. Surface of one 1 1 J.1 • J1 valve, directed towards the opposite, e. Semicircular at- Dy pressure, and this tliey tached margin of the valve. Alter Alascagni.