583 CHAP. XLI.] FIRST TRACE OF EMBRYO. Fig. 2Y5. ii! I ) About the sixteenth hour, between the external and internal layers of the germinal membrane a new deposition of cells takes place, from which the first traces of vessels are produced. This is the middle layer of the germinal membrane, commonly known as the vascular layer. The vessels are not formed, in the first place, close to the embryo, but at some distance from it, outside the area pellucida, so that now the area pellucida is surrounded by the area vasculosa; and this again by the area vitellina. As the ves- sels increase in number and size, they spread outwards over the area vitellina, and inwards over the area pellucida, until they join the large trunks connected with the heart. A little earlier than this, about the fourteenth hour, in the central part of the long axis of the clear oval area pellucida, which lies in the transverse axis of the egg, appears a line thicker at one extremity than the other. This is the first trace of the embryo, and IS Portion of germinal membrane about the sixteenth n T ,1 • -J- J ; hour of incubation, n. Germinal membrane. 6. Area called tne primitive streak or vasculosa. c. Area pclluclda. a. Nota primltiva or the nuta primitiva. embiyo. About the third day of incubation, on each side of the primitive streak, appear two ridges or crests, which are termed lamince dorsales. These gradually arch over, and at length enclose the brain and cord. The chorda dorsalis occupies a position underneath the spinal cord, and appears as a thin gelatinous thread, which corresponds to the axis of the bodies of the vertebrae, which latter, however, are not formed from the chorda dorsalis, but are developed from a double roAV of four-sided white spots, or vertebral plates, arranged symmetrically on each side of the central chorda dorsalis. Passing downwards from the dorsal laminae, on each side are the ventral lamince, which tend to enclose a space below the corda dorsalis, like that enclosed by the dorsal lamince above it. The former con- tains the lai'ge vessel of the trunk (Fig. 277). The latter the central organs of the nervous system. In this way are produced the hcEmal arch and the neural arch of the vertebrae. Soon the embryo, and that portion of the gei'minal membrane immediately connected with it, become somewhat raised; the