189 DEGLUTITION. CHAP. XXIII.] sidcrable muscular power, and a comparatively thick and insensible lining membrane. On receiving the morsel forced into its upper orifice by the last act of pharyngeal deglutition, the oesophagus is mechanically di- lated, and its lining membrane stimulated by the contact. The re- sult is a contraction of its muscular coat upon the pellet, which is thereby carried forwards into the succeeding portions, in which the like actions are induced, until it has traversed the entire canal. This series of actions is rapid and quite involuntary, but an obscure sensation attends it, which is capable of being heightened to uneasi- ness or pain if any obstruction be met with, or if the descending morsel be too hot. It has been already stated that the contractions are due to a central stimulus on the muscular nerves, derived from the pressure of the food on those of the lining membrane (see p. 121). It has been pointed out by Miiller that rapid and slight peristaltic descending contractions occur in the oesophagus independent of the passage of food. These are probably such as occur in the intestines and uterus, without the accustomed stimulus and as a mere conse- quence of their contractility. In vomiting, the oesophagus has an inverted action, the muscular coat forcing up the food thrown into it from below. In ruminating animals, this inverted peristaltic motion is capable of being accomplished by the will, and a similar power exists in some individuals among mankind, of which we have witnessed more than one striking example. On passing a rapid series of electrical shocks down the oesophagus of a dog just killed, the upper three-fourths of the tube are thrown into continued or tetanic contraction, while the lower fourth takes on a peristaltic or vermicular contraction ; thus demonstrating the situation of the change from the striped to the unstriped fibres of the muscular coat, according to the recent test of Weber.* * On the subject of the teeth the student may conveniently refer to the works of Leeuwenhoek, John Hunter, Thomtis Bell ; Tomes, Med. Gaz. 1839—46 ; Owen, Odontography; Nasmyth, on the Teeth ; MuUer's Physiology, by Baly ; Goodsir, Ed. Med. and Surg. .Tournal, vol. 61. On insalivation, he may consult Dr. Wright's works, which are of great interest and value. On deglutition, Dzondi's observations, in Miiller, by Baly ; a paper by Mr. Fergusson, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii. p. 280; and the Cyclop. Anat., art. (Esophagus, by Dr. .Johnson.