480 LIVER. [chap. XXXIII. From a careful consideration of the anatomy of the parts, we should he led to look upon the liver as a large gland in which a considerable quantity of a highly elaborated secretion was slowly formed, and slowly transmitted in a more highly concentrated form towards the intestine. The arrangement of the vasa aberrantia and of the little cavities in the coats of the thick-walled ducts, the abundance of vessels and lymphatics in such close proximity to the ducts, and the great similarity of their disposition with that of the vessels of the gall bladder, where Ave know absorption of fluid takes place, favour the idea that important changes occur in the bile after its formation by the cells of the liver. The liver is, therefore, a true gland, consisting of a formative portion and a system of excretory ducts du'ectly continuous with it. The secreting cells lie within a delicate tubular network of basement membrane, through the thin walls of which they draw from the blood the materials of their secretion. Quantity and Uses of the Bile.—We have already considered the composition and uses of the bile in Chapter XXV.; but since that part of our work was published, some important results have been communicated by Bidder and Schmidt, which we shall here briefly allude to.^ These excellent observers have concluded, from numerous ex- periments upon diflferent animals, that the quantity of bile secreted during the twenty-four hours is much larger than had been sup- posed. Cats secreted 14*5 grammes, dogs nearly 20 grammes, and sheep 25 grammes, for each kilogramme (about 2 lbs. 3 oz. avoirdupois) in the weight of the animal. From these data, it is of course difficult to draw a correct inference as to the quantity of bile secreted by the human subject; but, from calculating from these results, it has been rendered probable that an adult man secretes about 54 oz. of pui-e bile in the twenty-four hours, and this contains about 2^ oz. of solid matter. This estimate is very much higher than that which we have given at p. 253. The activity of the secretion varies greatly at different periods of the day. For one or two hours after a meal, it is veiy small iu amount; but from this time it gradually increases until it attains its maximum, about the fifteenth hour after the last meal. The secretion then rapidly diminishes in quantity, until it is not more than it Avas two hours after the meal. The gall-bladder empties itself about two-and-a-half or three hours after taking food. * Die Verdauungssaefte und der Stoflfweclisel von Dr. F. Bidder und Dr. C. Schmidt. Mitau und Leipzig, 1852. i