[chap. XX. 112 INNERVATION. a. Lachrymar b. Frontal c. Nasal II Superior Maxillary- Tcmporo-nialar b.- a. to the subjoined tabular arrangement of the distribution of each of its three divisions. TABULAR VIEW OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE FIFTH NERVE. I. Ophthalmic—(anastomoses with sympathetic). 1. b. To lachrymal gland. 2. b. To unite with temporo-malar branch of supra-maxillary nerve. 3. b. To external cantlms, eyelids, &c. (1. Supra-trochleator b, to integuments of internal cantlius, conjunctiva, lids, &c. 2. Continued frontal nerve, or supra-orhital. Lenticular b, to the ophthalmic ganglion. Ciliary nerves,—two in number. Nasal b, to the mucous membrane and skin of the anterior part of the nostril. Infra-trochleator, to the inner canthus and side of the nose, -(three stages, cranial, spheno-maxillary, orbital). -Anastomoses with the lachrymal and is distributed to the integument of the temporal and malar region. b. Spheno-palatine b.—Two or three in number, which pass to the spheno- palatine ganglion, c. Post, superior dental b.—Two or three in number, going to the posterior teeth of the upper jaw; one branch passing along the interior of the antrum, and anastomosing with the anterior superior dental. d. Ant. superior dental b.—Supplies the anterior teeth of the upper jaw. e Facial A Silh'H^^l^^ly^"^ integuments of those U. Nasal. ) III. Inferior Maxillary. a. Masseteric b.—To the masseter muscle. b. Deep temporal b.—Two in number, to the temporal muscle. c. Buccal 6,—Anastomoses with branches of the facial, and goes to the exter- nal pterygoid and buccinator muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the mouth. d. Pterygoid b.—To the circumflcxus palati and internal pterygoid muscle. e. Supei-ficial temporal b.—Anastomoses with the facial, and is distributed to the skin of the temporal region and external ear. (By its mylohyoid branch to the mylohyoid and digastric muscles. To the teeth, alveoli and gums of the lower jaw ; and by the mental branch to the integuments and mucous membrane of the lower lip. ris joined by the chorda tympani. Connecting filaments to the submaxillary ganglion or plexus. Anastomotic branches to the ninth nerve, .Branches to mucous membrane of the tongue. /. Inferior dental k- g. Lingual b.