520 THYROID. [chap. XXXV. sent. In most instances, the vesicle can be seen to be lined with a single layer of this epithelium, and many free cells are usually found floating in the fluid contained in the cavity. The fluid in the vesicles is coagulated by heat and nitric acid and evidently contains a large quantity of albumen. The stroma of the gland consists of fibres of both the white and yellow element, and it supjDorts the blood-vessels, which are ex- ceedingly numerous, and form a capillary plexus round each vesicle. The lymphatics in the th3'roid are numerous, but of their ulti- mate distribution nothing is known. The following are analyses of the thyroid body, by Dr. Beale.* Human. Ox. Water 70-60 71-34 Solid matter 29-40 28-66 Fibrinous and albuminous matter, vessels, and fat 26-384 24-628 Extractive matter 1-70 — Extractive matter, with gelatine ... — 2-888 Alkaline salts -50 '642 Earthy salts -816 -502 Uses of the Thyroid.—Of the uses of the thyroid but little is known. The material found in the vesicles is of an albuminous nature. Mr. Simon has advanced the opinion that the thyroid acts as a diverticulum to the cerebral circulation, and that its nutrition bears a certain relation to that of the nervous matter of the brain. When the latter is quiescent, the thyroid is supposed to be active in removing from the blood, and storing up in its cells, certain constituents which arc required by the brain only in its active state, and which are diverted to it Avhen it resumes its acti^dty. This view is based upon the important fact, that the arteries of the thyroid body arise in close proximity to those w^hich supply the brain, the superior thyroids coming ofi' from the external carotid, just immediately above the point of bifurcation of the common carotid, and the inferior thyroid arteries, from the subclavian, al- most immediately opposite the origin of the vertebrals. Thymus.—The thymus body or gland is an organ only dis- tinctly recognisable during early life. It appears to reach its largest size between the first and third years; but much variation occurs in this point in difl'erent individuals. It lies partly in the thorax and partly in the neck, and is composed of two lobes, which * Dr. Handfield Jones, article " Thyroid," Cyclopa3dia of Anatomy aud Physiology.