THEORY OF ANIMAL HEAT. 427 CHAP. XXX.] To explain the prompt oxidation of the carbon and hydi'ogen within the body, Liebig has pointed out that the oxygen is pre- sented to them not in a gaseous but in a liquid or solid form—that in the innumerable channels of the circulation, these several ele- ments are not merely brought together in a very subdivided state, but everywhere in close proximity to membranous surfaces, me- chanically adapted to favour the occurrence of chemical union. Moreover, that the carbon and hydrogen are not oflFered to the oxygen in their pure and simple state, but in combinations already existing and ready to be dissolved. He also insists, with great force, on the analogy of these actions to those promoted by the presence of a body already undergoing oxidation. For example, "when weak brandy is allowed to trickle over shavings in a closed vessel, through which a feeble current of air at from 93° to 97° F. circulates, the alcohol in the brandy remains unchanged; in spite of the gTcatly increased surface, no oxidation, no formation of acetic acid takes place. But if to the brandy there be added one hundred thousandth part of vinegar, beer, or wine, in the state of acetification, that is, of oxidation, the alcohol disappears with gi'eat rapidity, and is converted, by the absorption of oxygen, into an equivalent quantity of acetic acid. In the vessel, the surface of the shavings themselves very soon passes into the state of oxi- dation, and from this period forth, the brandy is acetified without the addition of a ferment: the wood, being in the state of decay, eremacausis, or slow combustion, plays the part of a ferment. These vinegar-producing vats give an idea, if only a rough one, of the process of oxidation going on in the animal body. As in the body, so also in these vessels, a temperature higher than that of the sm-rounding media is kept up, without the aid of external heat."^ These actions of contact or catalysis may well be supposed to play a large and most important part, not merely in the production of animal heat, but also in all the chemical changes which are ever going on in the body, from the first reception of food to the final expulsion of its elements in other forms of combination. Great obscurity, however, still hangs over the series of transforma- tions which the food undergoes in its passage through the body. It has been seen that both arterial and venous blood contain oxygen and carbonic acid gas in a state of solution; but into what form of combination the oxygen first enters, or from what imme- diate source the carbonic acid is derived is as yet matter of con- * "Animal Chemistry," p. 34, Srd edition. Part I. F F 2