562 MENSTRUATION. [chap, xxxix. from the numerous blood corpuscles it contains, and is perfectly fluid, as it is free from librine, a character whicli distinguishes it from ordinary blood. Besides blood-corpuscles, it contains a num- ber of small, pale granular cells, and large corpuscles, containing numerous small oil-globules, the so-called granular corpuscles. Dr. Letheby has published an analysis of menstrual fluid which had accumulated to the extent of forty ounces, in consequence of an imperforate hymen. It was thick and black, and it contained no fibrine. Under the microscope were detected altered blood corpuscles, exudation or granular corpuscles, mucus cells, epithe- lium, and granules. Water 857*4 Solid matter 142*6 Fat 5*3 Albumen 69*4 Globuliue . . . 49-1 Hsematin 2*9 Salts 8*0 Extractive matter 6*7 Maturation of Ova, and their Discharge from the Ch-aafian Follicle.— The most important of the phenomena, however, accompanying menstruation, is the maturation and discharge of ova from the ovary. At these periods, a Graafian follicle becomes enlarged, pro- jecting considerably from the sm'face of the ovary, and distended with fluid. Its wall becomes thin at one point, where it at length gives way, and the contents of the follicle escape into the Fallopian tube. The ovum has but rarely been detected in the Fallopian tube, which is scarcely to be wondered at when we consider its small size, and the very few cases in which we have an opportunity of searching for it with a chance of success. It has, however, been actually seen in one case in the human female examined by Dr. Letheby, and in another by Mr. Hyett. In animals, it may be detected without difficulty, although it is only of late years that the escape of the contents of a Graafian follicle at each menstrual period has been placed beyond a doubt. We owe to Dr. Robert Lee, observations, made so long ago as the year 1831, which establish the fact of the rupture of a follicle, and the escape of its contents, at each recurrence of menstruation. Ova have been detected in the ovaries at a very early age. Dr. Ritchie states, that, even during childhood, there is a con- tinual ruptirre of ovisacs and dischai'ge of ova taking place; but it is not until the period of puberty that the number of ovisacs