534 GENERATION. [chap. XXXVI. aperture of the efferent duct is found to be variously modified, according to the different circumstances in which the animal lives, and the modification of its general form. In some classes, the females are very few in number, and often whole colonies are developed from one female. This is the case amongst the bees, termites, and ants, in which the great majority of the individuals are found to be neuters or workers. In the pupa of these last, the generative organs may be distinguished, but they afterwards become atrophied. Now it appears probable, that the development of the female organs is dependent upon nourishment; for it has been found, that the larvae which are to become fertile females, or queen bees, have been supphed with a much more stimulat- ing kind of food than that upon which the workers have been fed. The generative organs are double and symmetrical in insects, and several accessory organs are found connected with the efferent duct. Of these, the most remarkable is a receptacle connected with the vagina of the female, designed to receive the seminal fluid of the male. This vesicle is termed the receptaculum seminis, and in it the spermatic particles of the male may be kept in a hving condition for a very long period of time. The ova are im- pregnated as they pass the orifice of the duct of the receptaculum seminis. Besides this last, there is another organ connected with the lower part of the female genital organs, designed to receive the penis of the male. This is known as the bursa copvlatrix, which, however, is not universally present. Mucous glands pour their secretion into the vagina near its external orifice. The aiTangement of the ovaries differs considerably in various classes. The gland usually consists of ccEcal tubes, which are four or five in number, and open into the summit of the efferent duct; while in some the tubes open separately in the sides of the duct. The number of secreting tubes is very valuable in the different classes. The testicles consist of two or more (and often thei-e are very many) simple cojcal tubes, the arrangement of which varies much, and which open into the vas deferens of the corresponding side. The vasa defereutia are often very long and much convoluted ; in some instances they are dilated below, so as to form a sort of vesicula seminalis. The copulatory organs vary much in their disposition; usually they consist of hard, horny valvular appendages. In some species, suckers are developed upon the legs ; and other arrangements are found for the pui-pose of retaining the female during the act. The imperfect or larval form of many insects when they leave the egg, has already been alluded to under the heads of metamorphosis and metagenesis, or alternation of generations. Vertebrata. In the vertebrata, with the highest and most perfect development of the generative function, we shall find the progressive elevation characterized by gi-eater complexity of structure, more protracted dependence of offspring on parent, and closer relations of the two sexes. Fishes.—Th.eve are three types of structure in the generative organs of fishes. First, in the Cyclostomatous Group and in the Eel, the ovary consists of membranous folds depending from the spine, between the layers of which the ova are, at the spawning season, developed. When mature, they escape by the rupture of the membrane into the general peritoneal cavity, in which,