THE CILIARY MUSCLE. 27 CHAP. XVII.] Fig. l\6. iris firmly to the sclerotic. The plexiform tissue of the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea already noticed, adjoins this ligament, and partially blends with it. The ciliari/ muscle is that grayish, semi-transparent structure behind the ciliary ligament, and covering the outside of the ciliary body. It has been described as muscular by many of the older anatomists, especially by Porterfield, while others have assigned to it a different cha- racter. Lately it has been so regarded by Wagner and Dr. Wallace of New York, and we believe correctly. It belongs to the unstriped variety of muscle, and its fibres ap- pear to radiate backwards from the junction of the sclerotic and cornea, and to lose themselves on the outer surface of the ciliary body. The more superficial fibres are in contact with, but scarcely adhere to, the sclerotic, and are inserted into the posterior part of the ciliary body; ,., iTil'l Situation of the ciliary ligament, and while the deeper ones seem to dip behmcl point from which the cuiarj'muscle , . . radiates, e. Iris, n Lens, connected the ins to the more prominent parts oi the with the ciliary processes by the an- .,. 1 • 1 1 xi 1 terior wall of the caniU of Petit, the ClJiary processes which approach the lens, situation of which is marked by the*, rrii .,. 1 ,1 ,1 (V i —Magnified 3 diameters. 1 he ciliary muscle must have the ettect of advancing the ciliary processes, and with them the lens, towards the cornea. The ciliary nerves pierce this muscle on their way to the iris, distributing to it many filaments which may be seen for the most part to cross the fibres. Diagram to show the', position and action of the Ciliary Muscle :—a. Scle- rotic. A. Cornea, c. Choroid, sepa- rated a little from the sclerotic, d. The muscular nature of this structure is confirmed by its anatomy in birds, where it is largely developed, as noticed by Sir P. Crauipton, We find its fil)res to be of the striped variety, like the circular fibres of tiie iris in the same class, and to be supplied by ciliary nerves traversing the muscle in a circular direction. They likewise all radiate from the cornea, at the circumfcrcnee of which they are attiiclicd to the deeper layers of the cornea proper, the elastic lamina being here exceedingly thin. Within the choroid is the retina, which we shall describe as a structure distinct from the optic nerve, though continuous with it; reserving our account of that nerve, and of the others pertaining to the eye, till the anatomy of the globe is concluded. The retina is the sheet of nervous matter which receives the images of external objects thrown upon it by the transparent media, and it is accordingly placed immediately behind the vitreous hu-