DIGESTION. [chap. xxv. iu which the bile accumulates until intestinal digestion begins, evidently associates the use of the bile with that process. Sir Benjamin Brodie advocated the doctrine that the bile pre- cipitated the white chyle from the chyme, and was necessary to the formation of the former. He tied the common choledoch duct in young cats so as to prevent the passage of bile into the intestine ; and he found that under these circumstances white chyle was not formed, the lacteals being filled with a material apparently identical with lymph.* Tiedemann and Gmelin experimented on dogs, and, although they affirm that chyle was formed in the intestine (the accuracy of which statement must not be completely relied upon in default of microscopical examination), yet they admit that the contents of the lacteals in the dog operated on consisted of " a transparent liquid, not icMte^'' while in the dog not operated on it was white. By our own experiments we have ascertained that the formation of white chyle took place, notwithstanding the closure of the com- mon bile-duct, provided the animal took a sufficient quantity of fatty matter in its food. When this was not attended to white chyle was not obviously formed. But the most remarkable eiFects of the ligature of the common duct were the emaciation, loss or capriciousness of appetite, and the general debility which imme- diately ensued upon it. Hence, although we do not subscribe to the doctrine that the presence of bile in the small intestines is essential to the formation of white chyle, we readily believe that its exclusion from the bowels retards and impairs digestion. When the biliary duct is obstructed, and the bile does not pass through its ordinary channels, the organs which suffer most disturb- ance in their functions are the kidneys, as if when the liver fails in its action, these organs took on the work of eliminating a certain portion of the bile. They secrete urine loaded with the colouring- matter of the bile ; and, at the same time, lithic acid, or lithate of ammonia, or purpurate of ammonia (muroxid), is formed in con- siderable quantity. Iu cases of jaundice from obstruction, so long as plenty of bile, or its colouring principle, appears in the urine, and a normal quantity of urine is secreted, no very serious symptoms arise ; but as soon as the kidneys fail, then indications of poisoning either by bile or by urea, or both, arise, and the patients die in a comatose state. It is worthy of remark that the hepatic cells contain more or less of oily fat: and that under some circumstances this fat accumulates • Quarterly Journal of Science and the Arts, 1823.