452 SECRETION. [chap. XXXII. in the body as to have an external anatomical position, so as to be able to set free the secreted product when formed. Some organs of a strictly secreting kind, pour their material directly into the blood. It appears most reasonable to regard the whole lymphatic system as an apparatus of this description, calculated not merely to restore to the circulating current the superfluous or altered plasma, thrown by the capillaries into the interstices of the tissues, but destined by its glandular parts especially to act on the passing fluid, and to pour into it additional secreted matters, which pass by the eiferent vessels to blend with the general mass of blood. The inner surface of the lymphatic vessels is here the external free surface, to which we refer as that from which the secretion is liberated."^ Again, there are other organs, viz., the synovial and serous membranes, which are usually and correctly classed as secreting organs. They have been already described (vol. i. p. 126). The fluid they secrete seems fui'nished for the pm'pose of lubricating their surface, so as to facilitate motion. It, consequently, does not leave the surface on which it becomes free, but remains in contact with it, and only undergoes the same slow renewal and absorption, as all other solids and fluids with which blood in motion is brought into close contiguity. We have no reason to suppose that the eflPusions on these surfaces suffer much deterioration by their con- tinued contact. They appear to diff'er but slightly from the serum of the blood, contain the same saline matters in solution, and in neai'ly the same proportions. The epithelium of these sui'faces is no doubt concerned in furnishing these fluids, but exerts little cata- lytic power over the liquor sanguinis, which, consequently, is little altered by being secreted. Mr. Rainey has weU pointed out that the epithelium in certain situations is developed in a particular manner upon the projecting folds and fringes of synovial mem- brane, known as glands of Havers; and has shown it to be probable that the viscid synovia owes its origin chiefly to the surface of these parts. He has found this disposition not only in the joints, but also in the sheaths of tendons^ and in the bursas mucosse.f But, dismissing these structures, we arrive at that great system * This view results from Professor Goodsir's anatomical researches, and from considerations which have been ably stated by Dr. Carpenter.—See ante, p. 275. t Proceedings of the Royal Society, May 7, 1846.