122 INNEKVATION. [chap, xx. been made the subject, accord in a striking manner with the con- clusions deducible from anatomy. Thus, mechanical and galvanic irritation of the pharyngeal branches has always produced contrac- tions of the pharynx: irritation of the superior laryngeal nerve causes contraction of the crico-thyroid muscle only, whilst that of the inferior laryngeal causes forcible contraction of the laryngeal muscles as well as of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. In a Uving animal the slightest touch to the mucous membrane of the glottis will cause the instant closure of that fissure, if the superior laryngeal nerve be uninjured, but if that nerve be divided on both sides, the glottis may be irritated with impunity. It is plain then that the inferior laryngeal is the principal motor nerve of the larynx, and that the superior laryngeal is at once its sensitive nerve, and the excitor of the motor action of the inferior laryngeal through the medulla oblongata. It is scarcely necessary to remark how untenable is the opinion advocated by Majendie, that an antagonism exists between the su- perior and inferior laryngeal nerves, the one acting upon the con- strictors, the other upon the dilators of the larynx. The superior laryngeal nerve supplies, as we have seen, only one muscle, and the inferior, to which he assigns the office of opening the glottis, sup- plies those muscles which are the principal agents in closing it. Impairment or destruction of vocal power is a constant accom- paniment to injury or complete section of the recurrent nerve. An interesting experiment of Dr. J. Keid illustrates the power of each laryngeal nerve respectively. When the inferior laryngeals were cut, the superior remaining intact, a jirobe introduced into the glottis occasioned signs of pain and efforts to cough, without any contraction of the glottis. But when the superior laryngeal nerves were cut, the recurrents being unimpaired, the probe could be introduced without exciting any irritation or effort whatever. This experiment demonstrates unequivocally, that the spasmodic action induced in the larynx by the application of a stimulus to its mucous membrane must be referred to the class of physical nervous actions, and results from the influence of the superior laryngeal upon the infei'ior, through the connexion of their respective points of im- plantation in the nervous centre. There can be no doubt that the motions of the oesophagus are re- gulated by the various oesophageal fibres given off from this nerve, in its course through the thorax. Irritation of its trunk has always pro- duced contractions of the oesophagus, as testified by many experi- menters. These contractions, Dr. Reid states, extended throughout