CHAP, xxvui.] TUE FORCE OF THE HEART. 361 of sustaining in ca tube fixed in the Ccarotid artery a column of blood 7^ feet high, and calculating the surface of the left ventricle at 15 square inches, he concludes that when it first begins to contract the ventricle supports a pressure of 51-5 lbs. of blood. And Poiseuille assigns 4 lbs. 4oz. as indicating the force which the left ventricle exerts at the moment of its contraction in propelling the blood into the aorta. Volkmann combats the grounds upon which Poiseuille's cal- culation was formed; and assigns the heart's power as equivalent to the force which sets the stream of blood in motion, and gives it its proper velocity, and also to that which enables it to overcome the obstacles it has to encounter. This latter power is determined by the pressure in the artery, which is found in the mean, in the carotid artery of mammals, to be capable of supporting a column of mercury of 200 millimetres, or about 7 inches; or a column of blood of 2700 millimetres (mercury being IS'S times heavier than blood); whilst the former force, taking the actual velocity of the blood in the commencement of the aorta at 400, and • in the carotid at 300, would be represented by a column of blood ' a little more than 8 millimetres in height. Thus it would appear I that the force of the heart may be expressed by the following I formula— H = 8-2 + 2700 miliim. or that it is capable of supporting a column of blood nearly 9 feet in height, which is equivalent to a column of mercury of about 8 inches.* That the heart's force is extended to the whole arterial system and must therefore be highly instrumental in maintaining the circu- lation through it, is shown by the fact that a considerable pressure is exerted in the various arteries, which can be measured by the liaemadynamometer, or by other instruments. Poiseuille had affirmed, that the pressure in all the arteries was the same, a column of mer- cury of the same height being supported by the blood's pressure in aW.-f This doctrine, however, is at variance with every obvious * Sec the remarks on this subject in the late Dr.Young's Croonian Lecture on the Functions of the Heart and Arteries. Phil. Trans. 1809, and republished in his Introduction to Med. Literature, 1823, p. 607 ei seqq. t As an example, the pressure in the carotid of a dog, distant 208 miliim. from the heart, and that in the humeral artery 303 miliim, distant, support a column of mercury of 179-04 millimetres. Whence Poiseuille infers that a particle of blood in the carotid, distant from the heart 208 miliim., moves with the same force as a particle in the humeral artery, which has a distance of 303 miliim. VOL. II. n 13