566 MATURATION AND DISCHARGE OF OVA. [chap, xxxix. colour, resembling effused blood j but soon the colour becomes paler, while its consistence is firmer and more dense. At length the follicle is seen to be occupied with a firm mass, which appears to be formed from a secretion poured out from its walls, whicli, from its yellow colour in man and many animals, has been called corpus luteum. Hence, for every follicle in the ovary from which an ovum is discharged, a corpus luteum will be found. In cases of twins, two corpora lutea are always present; sometimes one in eacli ovary, sometimes two in one. The characters which the corpus luteum exhibits, and the extent to which the changes giving rise to its formation undergo, will be determined by the circumstance of the ovum being impregnated or not. Bischoff proved decisively that the ova in mammalia were detached from the ovary at the time of heat, without coition taking place; and that corpora lutea were formed in tbe ovaries, just as if coition had occurred, and impregnation had taken place. Raciborski, from numerous experiments upon animals, has sho^ u that whether the rupture of the follicles is or is not accompanied by coitus or by fecundation, the appearance of the lesion which results is, in both cases, absolutely identical. Nevertheless the corpus luteum of pregnancy, except in its earliest stages, has been admitted by all observers, to possess cha- racters by which it may be distinguished from the corpus luteum formed in a follicle from which an ovum has been discharged without subsequent impregnation having occujTcd. Hence, true and false corpora lutea have been described; the true occurring only when conception has taken place, while the false are met with in the virgin ovary. This distinction must undoubtedly be recog- nised ; but there is every reason to believe that the development of a true corpus luteum takes place in obedience to similar nutri- tive changes which determine the formation of this body, proceed- ing to a much greater extent than in the case of the false or virgin corpus luteum, in consequence of their being promoted by the increased determination of nutritive pabulum and the greater vascularity of the ovaries when impregnation has occurred. In the cow (according to Dr. Dalton), the corpus luteum reaches its maximum of development in about two weeks after the rupture of the vesicle, and in three weeks more all that remains is a small yellowish spot. If, on the other hand, the rupture of the follicle be followed by impregnation, the corpus luteum does not attain its greatest size till about the middle of the seventh month, and at the termination of the eighth month it is still of large size, and