DIGESTION. [chap. xxv. them after a long fast. We select the following experiments in illustration of this statement:— Exp. 1.—A cat was fed on horse-flesh, carefully freed from fat on the 7th of July, 1848. On the two subsequent days it was fed on the whites of eggs, freed from yolk; and on the 10th, it was fed on the whites of five eggs, at nine o'clock a.m. At half-past one p.m., on the same day, it was killed. The thoracic duct was filled by a perfectly limpid chyle, which exhibited no molecular base, a few chyle-corpuscles, and a few blood-corpuscles. The lacteals were with difiiculty visible in consequence of the transparency of the fluid by which they were filled. The stomach and duodenum contained pieces of softened albumen, as well as a considerable quantity of a soft homogeneous jelly-like mass. In the latter intestine the villi were covered with epithelium, and did not exhibit any appearance to indicate that they were the seat of an active process of absorption. Exp. 2.—A small healthy terrier was fed at nine a.m. with half a pound of wheaten bread, having previously fasted twenty-four hours ; it was killed at one o'clock on the same day. The thoracic duct was filled with a clear fluid, which, when collected on a slip of glass, exhibited a faintly reddish hue. Under the microscope it was found to exhibit numerous red blood corpuscles, with a much smaller number of white corpuscles, but more than the usual pro- portion for blood. No molecules were perceptible. The fluid, when collected in a watch-glass, coagulated in two minutes into a firm clot. A small quantity of softened bread was found in the stomach, and a still smaller quantity of the same bread very much softened, liquid, diftused, and coloured by bile, was found in the duodenum. In both the contents were acid. The villi were covered with epithelium, which adhered firmly to them, without any great opacity of their interior, or other indication of activity of function. On chemical examination by our friend, Mr. Lionel Beale, junior, a highly competent analyst, the contents of the stomach were found to consist of a small quantity of sugar, with a good deal of starch, while in the duodenum sugar ex- isted in great abundance, and the starch only in very minute quantity. Exp. 3. A similar dog to the preceding was fed at the same time with two ounces and a half of horse-flesh, and the same quan- tity of beef suet; it was killed four hours and a half after having been fed. The whole lacteal system was distended with a white milky chyle, which, under the microscope, showed a large quantity