CHAP. XX.] THE GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. lib of the Hps constitutes it a pre-eminently sensitive nerve of touch in those regions. The study of the pathological conditions of this nerve illustrates its physiology in a highly interesting manner. In the dentition of children, whether primary or secondary, it is always affected, more or less : and in excitable states of the nervous centres, the irritation of it consequent upon the pressure of the teeth often gives rise to convulsions, the brain and spinal cord being irritated; and we can often trace to such irritation, whether in infancy or in childhood, the foundation of epileptic seizures in subsequent years. Painful affections of the face (neuralgia) have their seat in this nerve; tic- douloureux for example. Many of the instances of painful affection of this nerve or of branches of it, which come under our observation, are well marked examples of reflected sensation, the primary irrita- tion being conveyed to the centre by the vagus or the sympathetic from the stomach or intestinal canal. No one of these is so common as the pain over the brow, which so often follows derangement of stomach digestion; and which may frequently be instantaneously removed by taking away the source of irritation, as by neutralizing free acid in the stomach. Frequently also the branches of this nerve, in greater or less number, on one or both sides, may, accord- ing to the humoral view, form a focus of attraction for a morbific matter generated In the blood, in persons exposed to the paludal poison, or in persons of rheumatic or gouty constitution ; in these cases, as in most others of similar pathology, the neuralgia occurs in paroxysms of greater or less severity, each paroxysm being- followed by a period of convalescence, which lasts, it may be sup- posed, until the morbid matter has been again accumulated in quantity sufficient to induce a high degree of irritation of the nerves. Of the Eighth Pair of Nerves.—We must examine separately the anatomy and physiology of each of the three nerves which taken together constitute the eighth pair, and first, Of the Glossopharyngeal.—This nerve consists of several small fascicles of fibres, which lie close together, and are implanted in the upper part of the medulla oblongata behind the olivary body. The fibres penetrate to the centre of the medulla (the olivary columns) where they connect themselves with a special accumulation of vesi- cular matter. The glossopharyngeal nerve escapes through a small foramen in the dura mater, at the anterior part of the foramen lacerum pos- terius. Immediately after it has passed this foramen, a small gan- glion which involves only some of the fibres of the nerve, is formed I 2