CHAP. XXIX.] MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION. 401 In acklition to the muscles now mentioned, the lemtores costarum, cervicalis ascendens, and serraius posticus su]}erior, are probably muscles of ordinary inspiration; and those of the abdominal wall, wit ith the levator ani, of expiration; the latter action being aided by the elasticity of the ribs and their cartilages, and by the resilience of the elastic tissue entering so largely into the composition of the lungs themselves. This resilience (which Dr. Carson showed to be sufficient in sheep and dogs to balance a column of water from one to one foot and a half in height) occasions the collapse of the lungs when the pleural cavity is accidentally opened, as sometimes by wound of the parietes. In such cases the air passes in and out of the thorax through the wound in respiration, and the air previously in the lung is expelled through the glottis by the elastic force of the pleura and walls of the air-passages and cells. If the lung also be wounded, the air may pass into the pleural sac from the air- passages under the same resilient force, and be thence pumped by the expiratory forces through the wound in the parietes into the areolar tissue of the body, as so often happens in the case of frac- tures of the ribs. Extraordinary Muscles of Respiration. — In voluntary deep breathing, or when (as in asthma) the head, neck, and upper extre- mities become fixed points for the muscles passing between them and the thorax, the lower part of the serratus magnus, the pecto- rales, the subclavii, with the sterno-mastoidei, trapezii, and some others, aid in dilating the chest. Some difference exists among the most recent authors as to the share particular muscles take in the movements of respiration ; and this is not surprising when we con- sider the complexity of the problem, the difficulty of determining the fixed points, or of observing the muscles in separate action. In forced expiration, the triangulares sterni, the serrati postici infe- riores, sacrolumbales, latissimi dorsi, with their accessories as high as the highest costal insertion, probably help to depress and ap- proximate the ribs. Power of the Respiratory Muscles.—Dr. Hutchinson has lately made numerous experiments on this subject, and his results and those of Valentin and Mendelssohn agree. He finds as the average of 1500 trials that the expiratory power exceeds the inspiratory by one- third ; that men of 5 feet 7 or 8 inches have the greatest inspiratory power, and should on an average raise a column of mercury three inches ; while, above this, the strength gradually decreases as the sta- ture increases, so that a man of 6 feet raises a column of only two inches and a half: also, that occupation or mode of life serves much