131 CHAPTER XXI. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. ITS ANATOMY AND FUNCTIONS. Under tlie title of Sympathetic nerve is compreliencled a great subdivision of the nervous system, Avhich presents certain peculiar- ities of structure and of distribution, Avhereby it is strikingly con- trasted with the strictly cerebro-spinal nerves. It consists of an uninterrupted chain of ganglia, extending on each side of the vertebral column, from the first cervical vertebra down to the coccyx, and moreover extending upwards beside the cranial vertebrse, and occupying spaces between the bones of the cranium and those of the face. The ganglia are on the whole rather less numerous than the vertebrse : in the dorsal region there is generally a ganglion for each vertebra. The continuity of the chain is preserved by cords of communication which pass from one to the other : sometimes two ganglia are, as it were, fused together ; the chains of opposite sides communicate with each other at various parts in the plexuses of nerves which originate from them, and, in front of the coccyx, through a single ganglion {ganglion impar), which is situate in front of that bone; whether they communicate at the cephalic extremity, or not, is uncertain. Ribes has described a ganglion impar upon the anterior communicating artery of the circle of Willis, similar to that on the coccyx, and other anatomists regard the pituitary body in the sella Turcica as a ganglion of this description, a common point of union for the right and left sympathetic chains at their cranial extremities. The sympathetic nerve has very much the same general arrangement in mam- malia and birds as in man. In the former the cervical portion is closely associated with the vagus nerve by a sheatli of areolar tissue, but without interchange of fibres, excepting at its upper portion. In birds the cervical portion exists only in the canal formed by the foramina of the transverse processes of the vertebrse. In the batracliian reptiles the sympathetic is disposed as in mammalia. In the chclonian reptiles its ganglia arc few and the lateral cords small. In serpents it appears to want the distinct ganglia which exist in other animals ; it is, how- ever, continued do^vn the spine on each side, having frequent communications with the vagus. Numerous plexuses occur in its course. In the larger osseous ■ fishes the sympathetic is sufficiently distinct, as in the cod; it is also present in the ray; in both, but especially the latter, it is the abdominal portion which is K 2