STRUCTURE OF THE IRIS. 25 CHAP . XVII.] Fig. 115. border begins to send off from its anterior surface, or that towards the laminated cornea, a network of elastic fibres, which stretch towards the border, becoming thicker as they advance, until at length the entire thickness of the lamina is expended by being converted into them. These fibres then bend backwards from the whole circumference of the cornea, to the cir- cumference of the front of the iris, and are there implanted, passing in this course across the rim of the anterior chamber, and through the aqueous humor. They are seen more easily in some animals than in others, forming a regular series of pillars around the anterior chamber. Behind these there is a more diffused union of the tissue of the iris with the sclerotic, by means of the ciliary ligament. The iris is continuous behind, near its border, with the ciliary processes, and is only free in the inner half of its extent, near the pupil, where it is covered with a dense layer of pigment, and marked by converging strise. This posterior surface is termed uvea. In consequence of the extreme proximity of the iris to the lens, the posterior chamber is much less capacious than the anterior, as it is likewise of smaller Network of yeiiow fibrous y , tissue at the border of the Cliameter. elastic lamina of the cornea: The anterior surface of the iris has a bril- liant lustre, and is marked by lines accu- L\fo^"rhe%iL'^ic*ianUnV- rately described by Dr. Jacob, taking a more ^'''snified 70 diameters. or less direct course towards the pupil. These lines are important as being indicative of a fibrous structure. Slender, and very numer- ous in the outer three-fourths of the membrane (the pupil being contracted), and often crossed near the border by wave-like differently coloured lines, they unite at about -h of an inch from the pupil into a circular series of knotted and much thicker elevations, from which finally proceed a multitude of minute branching and anastomosing filaments, to the extreme verge of the pupil. When the pupil is contracted, these converging fibres are stretched; when it is dilated, they are thrown more or less into zigzags. The pupil is nearly cir- cul?ir, and is situated rather to the inner side of the centre of the iris. By the movements of the iris it is dilated or contracted, so as to admit more or less light to the interior; and its diameter under these circumstances may vary from about o'o to -} of an inch.