227 . XXV.] THE INTESTINAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. described certain permanent folds or valves, of semilunar shape, which he demonstrated by moderately distending the rectum with alcohol, which at the same time hardens its tunics, and thus displays their condition in the state of repletion. Three is the average number ; but sometimes a fourth is found, and at other times only two are present. The largest and most constant valve is situated opposite the base of the bladder, about three inches from the anus. The fold next in frequency is placed at the upper end of the rectum; and the third occupies a position midway between these. When a fourth is present it is situated about one inch above the anus. In the empty state of the intestine these folds overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to conduct a bougie or the finger along the cavity of the intestine. Their use seems to be " to support the weight of fsecal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge," * Of the Villi.—Villi are minute processes of the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine, to which they are exclusively confined (fig. 157). They project from the free surface of the mucous mem- brane into the cavity of the intestines, and seem admirably adapted to become implanted, like so many little roots, in any semifluid or fluid material which may fill the bowel. Villi are first found in the duodenum, where they appear to develope themselves as elonga- tions of the partitions between the cells into which Lieberkuhn''s tubes open. In the lower half of the duodenum, and the rest of the small intestines, they are very numerous, and give to the sur- face of the mucous membrane an appearance like that produced by the pile of velvet. They are continued down to the ileo-coecal aperture, and cease abruptly at its margin, covering the surface of the valve-segments next the ileum, but being wanting on the ccecal surface. A good view of the shape, arrangement, and number of the villi may be obtained by examining a piece of villous mucous membrane fixed under water. In man the villi are conical in shape, somewhat flattened, and measure in length from apex to base from the ^th to the ^th of an inch. They vary much in shape and size in the lower animals : in the dog, cat, and lion, they are long and almost filiform; in the sheep and rabbit they are small, flattened, and conical; in the turkey they are large and lamelliform. Most fishes and reptiles are devoid of villi. In structure a villus resembles an everted Lieberkiihn's follicle ; * Dub. Hosp. Rep. vol. v. p. 163.