438 VOICE. [chap. XXXI. govern aperture of glottis. muscles, the vocal chords will be stretched by the descent of the thyroid cartilage over the cricoid, a movement performed by the crico-thyroid and sterno-thp'oid muscles. The thyro-liyoid muscle, by drawing the thyroid cartilage upwards towards the hyoid bone, will assist the action of the thyro-arytenoids and relax the vocal chords. By the action of these various muscles, the tension of the vocal cords may be increased or diminished, and the size of the opening of the glottis regulated at will. Modes of altering the aperture of tJie Olottis and the tension of the vocal cords. Crico-thyroidei. . . . stretch the vocal chords . . . . v Thyro-arytenoidei . . j ^^l^^ ''^'^^ P>°« '^^"rds in ) ^^^f'notes ' •> (the position for vocalization . . \ ' Crico-arytenoidei postici \ ^^P^^te the fi-ont of the ) open ^ ( arytenoid cartilages. . ) glottis Crico-arytenoidei ( press together the front of ) laterales . . . . ( the arytenoid cartilages ( ) close Arytenoidei .... P^'ff together the back of ] glottis { the arytenoid cartilages ) Nerves.—The nerves of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the vag-us. Those from the former are distributed to the mucous membrane, and to the crico-thyroid muscles, by the external laryngeal branch; those from the latter to all the other intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Both these nerves anastomose with each other beneath the mucous membrane, near the arytenoid muscles. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve has relations to the innominata artery on the right side, and to the aorta on the left, which often implicate it in aneurismal tumors, especially of the latter artery. These, by compressing, weaken and paralize the nerve and the muscles which it supplies, and give rise to those alterations of voice which are sometimes among the earliest indications of the formation of an aneurism within the chest. Action of the Larynx and Theory of Vocalization.—In the little apparatus of vocal chords attached to moveable cartilages and bounded by a free space above (the laryngeal ventricles) and by a free space below (the tube of the trachea), in which they vibrate, are found the chief conditions necessary for the produc- tion of the vocal sounds over an extensive though variable range of pitch. Although all physiologists are agreed that this apparatus is the seat of the production of vocal sounds, there has, nevertheless, been much diflference of opinion as to whether tlie larynx should