niAP. XXV. 249 FUNCTION OF THE PANCREAS. characters above described of viscidity and alkalinity, with olive oil, and shaking the fluids well together, a perfect emulsion is formed, and a liquid similar to milk or chyle is the result. A similar effect is produced by the admixture of pancreatic juice and fresh butter, or of mutton suet, or hog's lard, care being taken to expose the mixture in a sand-bath to a temperature of from 95° to 100° Fahr., so as to melt the butter and suet, and afterwards to shake the mixture well. So perfect is the emulsion formed by means of the action of the normal pancreatic fluid upon fatty matters, that the mixture if left from fifteen to eighteen hours at a temperature of from 95° to 100° continues to exhibit the same colour and appearance, nor does any separation take place between the fatty matter and the pancreatic fluid. Tt appears, nevertheless, that the fat is not simply divided, and made into an emulsion, but that it has undergone a chemical change into glycerine, and a fatty acid; the fluid which immedi- ately after the admixture was distinctly alkaline, becomes, after remaining five or six hours, as distinctly acid. In the tube in which butter had been submitted to the action of the pancreatic juice, butyric acid was easily recognised at a distance by its charac- teristic odour. We find that on rubbing up a piece of quite recent pancreas taken from an animal killed during the digestive process, with fat or lard, and a little water at a teifP]Derature of 95° or 100°, a very perfect white emulsion is quickly formed. Bernard instituted experiments to ascertain whether other animal fluids possessed this power over oily or fatty matter. The fluids tried were bile, saliva, gastric juice, serum of blood, and cerebro-spiual fluid, but none of them were found to cause any permanent change, either mechanical or chemical, in the substances submitted to their influence. It also appears, from Bernard's experiments, and this is a point which may throw some light on certain forms of dyspepsia, that in order that the pancreatic fluid should exercise its perfect action it must be strictly normal. Bernard found that what he calls the abnormal fluid, namely, that which exhibits no viscidity, which is watery and does not coagulate by heat, has no eff'ect upon fatty substances. To complete the proof of the special action of the pancreatic fluid in the digestion of ftitty matters, Bernard states that he has tied in the dog the two pancreatic ducts, of which the smaller opens quite close to the choledoch duct, and the larger about three VOL. II. „