338 THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. the mitral valve. The process of fibrous tissue extends from eacli festoon towards the mouth of the artery, forming a loose semilunar curtain, which is the basis of the valve. Each of these curtains presents a convex attached border, and a concave free border, interrupted at its middle, or bisected so as to form two concave borders, by a slight thickening of the fibrous tissue, which forms a small spherical body called the corpus Araniii; it also has a convex surface directed towards the ventricle, and a concave surface directed towards the artery. The bundles of fibres which constitute this fibrous basis of each valve are disposed in fes- toons, some parallel to the fibrous festoon of the attached border; others, and the greatest number, parallel to the smaller con- cave borders on each side of the Corpus Arautii. The fibres nearest the attached border of the valve are considerably more developed than those near its free margin. Indeed, for a space of about three or four lines from the edge of the valve the fibrous tissue is extremely thin and almost transparent. It is at this part of their ventricular surface that the valves come in Pig 200. contact when they close the arterial orifices, forming a mu- ^ tual support to each other, and leaving the main stress of the ^ backward pressure of the co- Fibrous tissue of a scmUunar valve beneath the lumU of blood in tllC artery, endocardium. ^^^^^^ p^^.^j^^^ each valve which intervenes between this and its attached border. Hence the greater thickness of the fibrous basis in this situation. It is worthy of notice that the tissue of the endocardium is nearly, if not completely identical with the inner longitudinal fibrous tunic of arteries ; a fact which explains the close similarity between the diseased states of the arterial tissue and those of the endocardium and the heart's valves. Mechanism of the Valves.—The valves are closed by the mere hydraulic pressure of the blood. When the blood accumulates in the ventricles, it pushes up the auriculo-ventricular valves towards the auricle until their several portions come in contact with each other, and close the orifice. But the simple contact of the curtains of these valves with each other would not prevent regurgitation ; for the same hydraulic pressure which brings them in contact would push them into the auricle, were it not tliat their margins are connected with the walls of the ventricle and the musculi papillares by means of the chordie tendineaj. When the ventricle contracts, it draws