CHAP, xxvm.] 347 rORTAL CIRCULATION. I The cause of this difference in the frequency of the pulse in different postures resides probably in the effort employed to main- tain the muscular contractions necessary to support the erect or sitting postures. But careful experiments are still wanting to ascer- tain whether a simple difference of posture, without muscular exertion, would develope a change in the frequency -of the pulse. Those as yet done by the revolving board, seem to have had reference only to the exertion of muscular force in the production of the change of posture, and not to that required for the continued effort to main^ ; tain the attitude. The Course of the Circulation in the Adult.—Taking the left ventricle as the starting point for the circulation, we may describe I the blood as pursuing the following course. By the left ventricle ; it is driven through the aorta into every artery of the body save the pulmonary; and having passed through the capillary system it enters the venous radicles, and from them it passes to the venous trunks; it is at length returned by two great trunks, the superior j and inferior ven(B cava, to the right auricle of the heart. This por- \ tion of the circulation, from its traversing the whole system, except the lungs, and from its occupying by far the largest part of the body, is called the systemic or greater circulation. The venous blood, brought by the great venous trunks to the right auricle, is expelled by that cavity into the right ventricle, which drives it by the pulmonary artery through the lungs to the pulmonary veins, through which it passes to the left auricle, and so on to the left ventricle. This portion of the circulation, traversing only the lungs, and connecting the right ventricle and left auricle, forms the lesser or fidmonic circulation. Of the Portal Circulation.—In general the arterial blood passes through a single system of capillaries and veins before it is returned to the auricle. But there are two remarkable exceptions to this I —one in the portal circulation of the liver, the other in the kidneys. In both these cases the blood passes through two sub- systems of capillaries after it leaves the arteries. Thus, as regards ' the hepatic circulation, the blood conveyed to the intestines by the arteries, passes through the intestinal capillaries into the intestinal veiiis, whence it passes to the trunk of the vena port£e, which agam transmits it to the hepatic capillaries, and thence to the hepatic veins, through which it reaches the heart. A portion of the circulation, of which the chief vessel is formed like a vein, and I distributes its blood like an artery, is called a portal circulation. A similar circulation is found in the kidneys. The afferent arteries A A 2