88 INNERVATION. [chap. XVIII. It is necessary for the reader to bear in mind that the organ of hearing may be affected in two ways: first, through the external ear, and secondly, through the bones of the head. Every jierson must have noticed the difference in the sound of the ticking of a watch if it be held near the ear but not in contact with it, and if it be held between the teeth. The waning note of the vibrating tuning-fork seems revived when the stem of the fork is brought in contact Avith the teeth or with any part of the head. These differ- ences are due to the difference of the medium through which the sonorous undulations are made to affect the auditory nerve. In the former instance, hearing is excited through the external ear, when the watch is held near that part, and through the bones of the head, when the watch is brought into contact with the teeth. And in the example of the tuning-fork, the sound appears to revive when it is made to affect the nerve through a medium (the bones of the head) which more readily vibrates in unison with the most delicate oscillations of the sounding body. I. Of the External Ear.—The external ear consists of two parts, the auricle^ and the meatus auditorius externus. The complete de- velopement of the former is found only in mammalia, in which class it exists pretty generally; with, however, considerable diversity of each other, and any two sounds produced by the same number of vibrations or impulses in the same time, are said to be in unison. The loudness or intensity depends upon the violence and extent of the primitive impulse. The quality is supposed by Herschel to depend on the greater or less abruptness of the impulses; or generally on the law which regulates the excursions of the molecules originally set in motion. 8. The velocity with which sound travels is, however, quite independent of its intensity or of its tone ; soimds of every pitch, and of every quality, travel with tlie same speed through the same medium, as is proved by the fact, that distance does not destroy the harmony of a rapid piece of music played by a band. 9. Water propagates sound with much greater velocity than air does. Colladon concludes, from numerous observations, that the velocity of sound in water, at 40° Fahr., was at the rate of 4708 feet in a second. 10. According to Biot, cast-iron propagates sound at the rate of 11,090 feet in a second. II. Sonorous undulations in passing from one medium to another always ex- perience a partial reflexion, and when they encounter a fixed obstacle, they arc almost wholly reflected. The reflexion of sound occurs according to the same law which regulates the reflexion of light,—namely, the angle of reflexion is equal to the angle of incidence. 12. The phenomena of echoes result from the reflexion of sound from any prominent object.