■^^o INNERVATION. [chap. xxi. posite the third or fourth cervical vertebrae, was followed, with re- markable rapidity, by a disturbance of the circulation in the eye- ball; giving rise to a swollen and apparently inflamed state of the conjunctiva, a contracted state of the pupil, a flattening of the cornea, and a retraction of the eyeball, with protrusion of the fold of the con- junctiva, known by the name of the haw, and a flow of tears. Dupuy found similar effects resulting from the extirpation of the superior cervical ganglion in horses; and when the ganglia on both sides were removed, there were superadded to these more local effects, a general emaciation along with an anasarcous state of the limbs, and an eruption over the whole cutaneous surface. Dr. J. Reid confirms these results of section of one sympathetic in the neck, as far as regards the eye, and he agrees with the other observers in stating that the injected state of the conjunctiva fol- lowed immediately after the section. In one case, he states that the redness of the conjunctiva took place a few minutes after the operation. It has been already stated, that section of the branches of the fifth nerve, which supply the eye, is followed by ulceration and other signs of impaired nutrition in the eyeball. But these changes do not take place for some time after the section of the nerve; gene- rally many days elapse: and they are attributable to the presence of irritating particles, which, owing to the insensible state of the conjunctiva are suffered to remain in contact with the surface of the eye, giving rise to inflammation and ulceration of its textures. The effects of section of the sympathetic are immediate; and are proba- bly due to a change produced in the blood-vessels, in consequence of the withdrawal of their accustomed nervous influence. The sympathetic thus appears to exercise a threefold office: first that of a sensitive nerve to the parts to which it is distributed; secondly, that of a motor nerve for certain muscular parts; and, thirdly, that of a nerve to the blood-vessels. It is almost certain that blood-vessels enjoy in their coats a power of contractility; and it seems highly probable that these nerve-fibres exercise an influence upon that contractility. Such an influence, it is evident, would materially affect the nutrition of parts the blood-vessels of ■which are subject to it; and, as secretion is mainly dependent on the normal nutrition of glands, it is reasonable to suppose that that function likewise would be to a certain extent controlled by these nerves. It remains to enquire the sources whence these various classes of fibres in the sympathetic respectively derive their powers.