INNERVATION. [chap. xxr. cliiefly (Icveloped."- In tlie cyclostomatous fishes the sympathetic is said to be wlioUy deficient. For the sake of description, the sympathetic in the human hody may be divided into the following portions, 1. The Cephalic. 2. The Cervical. 3. The Dorsal. 4. The Lmixbar. 5. The Sacral. In comparing these several portions, we find that they have cer- tain characters in common. Each portion consists of its proper number of ganglia, which seems in some degree influenced by the number of vertebra? in that region of the spine to which it belongs. The ganglia are connected by cords of communication, which are not mere nerves, but are true extensions of the ganglia in a cord- like form; so that each lateral chain might be described as a con- tinuous ganglion, with swellings at certain intervals. From each portion certain sets of nerves may be pretty constantly traced: these are, omitting the cords of communication between the ganglia, 1. Visceral nerves, which generally accompany branches of neigh- bouring arteries to the viscera. 2. Arterial nerves, apparently devoted to arteries in the vicinity of the ganglia. 3. Nerves of communication with the cerebral or spinal nerves, which emerge from the cranium or spine near to the gauglia. The visceral and arterial branches have a remarkable tendency to form jilexuses, generally very intricate, which entwine around the blood-vessels, and, in the former case, are conducted by them to the tissue of the viscera. The branches of communication with cerebral or spinal nerves, are among the most remarkable connected with this portion of the nervous system. We have already (p. 222, vol. i.) described certain of them as consisting very distinctly of two portions or bundles, one composed of tubular fibres, the other almost exclusively of gela- tinous fibres. These bundles have been very commonly described as constituting the roots of origin of this nerve.-|- On tracing back the gray bundle, connected with one of the spinal nerves, it is found that most of its fibres go to the ganglion of the posterior root of the nerve, some passing into the anterior root. A few of these fibres may be found in each root; they are not, however, traceable into the spinal cord, but seem to connect themselves only with the blood-vessels of that organ. Such is pro- bably the anatomical history of the so called gray root of the sym- pathetic connected with every spinal nerve. It may therefore bo * See Mr. Swan's beautiful Plates of the Comp. Anat. of the Nervous System. t A good figure of these roots is given in Wutzcr's work, " De Corporis liumani gangliorum frabrica atque usu." Wutzer does not, however, distinguish them as white and grey. Berlin, 1817.