CHAP. XXXII.] OF THE DUCTS OF GLANDS. 457 forming an outer coat, together with bloodvessels and nerves. The areolar coat gives strength, toughness, and elasticity to the duct; the bloodvessels serve for its nourishment, and the nerves supply its muscular coat, and endow it with a peculiar sensibility, which, under particular circumstances of pressure or detention (as in the passage of a biliary or urinary calculus), may rise to the height of the most exquisite pain, reacting fearfully on the whole nervous system. The smaller ducts very generally are without muscular parictes, and are reduced to a homogeneous basement membrane, lined with epithelium. Indeed, there is reason to believe that in some cases the very smallest consist either of simple epithelium or of mere basement tissue. The lobidar passages of the lungs are an example of this latter constitution. It is not difficult to prove that the larger ducts are muscular. Take for example the ui-eter. Open a small auimal, just killed for the purpose, and this canal will be seen to present occasional peristaltic contractions, passing rapidly from the kidney to the bladder, which may be easdy excited by a mechanical or galvanic irritation if they do not appear spontaneously. Besides this peris- talsis, they undoubtedly undergo, like the bloodvessels, a slow and uniform dilatation and narrowing according to the buUc of their contents, or other conditions. In some of those dilatations of the gland-ducts, Avhich are pro- vided for a temporary reception of the secretion, such as the ui'inary bladder and the vesiculse seminales, the muscular coat at- tains such a thickness as to allow of being readily shown. The muscularity of the coats of the urethra was demonstrated for the first time some years ago by Mr. Hancock. In the gall-bladder, muscle is certaiuly developed to a far less extent; but even here. Dr.. G. H. Meyer states, that by means of a powerful galvanic bat- tery, he has caused this receptacle in the ox to contract, so as to diminish its capacity one-foui'th. The Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina are parts rightly falling under the head of gland-ducts, though wonderfully modified in accordance with the functions they have to perform. The uterus, in particular, under the condition of pregnancy, offers an example of the highest development of the involuntary or unstriped muscular fibre-cells anywhere met with. We shall now proceed with a description of those glands which have not yet been treated of. Of those pertaining to the alimen- tary canal, the salivary glands and their secretion (vol. ii. p. 182), and the secretion of the pancreas (p. 246) and the liver (p. 256), have been akeady spoken of, and the structure only of the two VOL. II. H H