CHAP. XXVII.] MORBID BLOOD. 311 sity, but upon this point observers are very far from being agreed; and also as to the proportions of solid constituents, but on this sub- ject likewise the reports of analysts are contradictory and highly unsatisfactory. The blood of the vena porta is said by F. Simon to coagulate more slowly and less perfectly than ordinary venous blood; it con- ; tains less fibrine and much more fat. I Influence of Venesection and of Disease upon the Blood.—The influence of venesection, and of some morbid states upon the rela- tive quantities of these constituents of the blood, deserves to be well impressed upon practitioners. Venesection, or the loss of blood by any means, reduces the amount of the red particles chiefly, and the more so in proportion to its frequency; the serum is diminished in density, and the quan- tity of the albumen and the fat is slightly reduced ; that of fibrine is not affected, nor are the extractives and salts. ; The following cases from Dr. Ohristison illustrate the influence of venesection upon the blood. The first is that of a middle-aged woman, who had been pre- I viously repeatedly bled for palpitations of the heart. The analysis of her blood gave the following result:— Fibrine . : . 2 Solids of serum . . 76 Red particles . , 67 Water . . .863 ^ In the second case there had been frequent bleedings after rheu- matism :— Fibrine ... 4 Solids of serum . . 93 Red particles . . 57 Water . . . 344 This latter case shows how impotent is venesection, even when carried to a great extent, over the reduction of fibrine, the material that forms those new deposits of organizable matter or plastic lymph, which in inflammations of internal organs, such as the lungs and heart, so much interfere with their normal action. : ^ The following experiment, also, illustrates the effect of venesec- ' tion upon the blood, first, when the animal was well fed at the time when the bleedings were being practised ; and, secondly, when it was starved between the operations. A large dog was fed upon two pounds of meat, and a quart of I milk a day, and six ounces of blood were drawn on each of four \