CHAP. XXI,] FUNCTIONS OF THE SYMPATHETIC. 147 Looking to the anatomy of the nerve, there can be no doubt that some fibres are derived from the spinal cord or medulla ob- longata, and that others proceed from the sympathetic ganglia. The motor and sensitive fibres, and some of those going to the other muscular parts, belong, no doubt, to the former class; the vascu- lar, with the highest probability, to the latter. Valentin's experiments indicate that the roots of the encephalic and spinal nerves exert considerable influence upon the movements of parts supplied by the sympathetic. For instance, irritation of the roots of the first three or four cervical nerves, excites increased action of the heart; and that of the dorsal and lumbar spinal nerves stimulates the peristaltic action of the intestines through the splan- chnic nerves, and the abdominal plexuses. The elFects of diseased states of the spinal cord also afford a sup- port, which is more to be relied upon than the previous experi- ments, to the opinion that the motor and sensitive fibres of the sympathetic are implanted in the spinal cord. When there has been extensive lesion of the cord, from injury or disease, the intesti- nal canal is always affected to a degree proportional to the extent of the lesion ; and this affection shows itself in the torpor of the intestines, and the readiness with which they become distended by flatus, giving rise to the tympanitic condition of abdomen, which so generally attends disease or injury of the spinal cord. It had long been thought that the sympathetic nerve plays an important part in the sympathies of the body. Our improved knowledge of the anatomical distribution of the nerves, and of their physiological anatomy, and of their endowments, clearly shows that the phenomena of sympathy are explicable, by the known laws of action of the great nervous centres, and that the sympathetic nerve can take no more prominent part in it than any other nerve; the extent to which it or any other nerve may be engaged in the play of such sympathies being proportioned directly to the extent of its central as well as its peripheral connections. It would be more consistent, therefore, with a scientific nomen- clature to discard the term Sympathetic as applied to this nerve; the old name Intercostal would, in some respects, be preferable. There is, however, great difficulty in finding a name which would adequately express its constitution and offices, which may be sum- med up as follows. 1. In its constitution it is compound, consisting of tubular fibres and of gelatinous fibres. 2. In its offices, it is a motor nerve to many of the internal viscera L 2