I CHAP. XXIX.] INHALATION OF OXYGEN. 4Uy carbonic acid in the expired air is less. Thus the per centage of this gas bears a certain proportion to the frequency of the respirations, , supposing theii- bulk to remain the same. If the respiratory movements are suspended for a short time, ; the per centage of carbonic acid in the expired air becomes in- I creased. The total quantity expired is, on the other hand, some- what diminished; showing that tliis increased per centage, in a given quantity of air, does not compensate for the smaller proportion of air entering the lungs under these circumstances. Allen and Pepys found, that when the same air was breathed more than once, the proportion of carbonic acid underwent a considerable increase. Air breathed nine or ten times, contained 9-5 per cent, of carbonic acid; but if the air was breathed over again as often as possible, the per centage of this gas could not be increased above 10. Mr. Coathupe obtained as much as 13-75 per cent, of carbonic acid from air in which animals had been placed until they were suffocated. The per centage of carbonic acid varies also at different periods of time during the same respiration. By taking the average of twenty-one experiments, Vierordt found, that while the proportion of carbonic acid in the entire expiration amounted to 4*48 per cent., the first half contained 3-72, and the last half 5-44 per cent. It has been estimated, that the air from the air-ceUs contains as much as 5'83 per cent, of carbonic acid, or about 1'3 per cent, more than the air of an ordinary expiration. Amount of Oxygen Inhaled.—The quantity of oxygen introduced into the system in respiration, is always greater than is required to form the amount of carbonic acid eliminated during this process. This sm'plus quantity no doubt is employed in oxydizing other substances in the organism besides the carbon ; such, for instance, as sulphur and phosphorus, which are eliminated in the m'ine in the form of sulphuric and phosphoric acids. Valentin and Brunner found that the proportions of these gases approximated very closely to their diffusive volumes; for the quantities obtained by direct experimeat, and by calculation, differed very slightly. Oxygen being the lighter gas, a larger quantity is required to replace tlie carbonic acid; 81 parts of the latter will require 95 of the former to replace it according to Graham's law, that the diffusion volume of different gases varies inversely as the square root of the density, or about one volume of absorbed oxygen corresponds to -85 of exhaled carbonic acid. The experiments of Dulong and Despretz, VOL. IT. E E