DIGESTION. 214 [chap. xxiv. occurrence of vomiting when the abdominal muscles and diaphragm have been paralysed, or its occurrence when an inert bag, as a pig's bladder, has been substituted for the stomach, the external muscles being intact (as in Majendie's noted but most cruel expe- riment), lead to no conclusion, for, in the one case the violence done so impairs the conditions necessary for the act (both nervous and muscular) that it cannot be expected to take place; and in the other, the substitution of the inert bag, and the section of the oesophagus, are favourable to the escape of fluids from the former and through the latter, under the slightest pressure. The nervous changes which take place in the act of vomiting are of the most interesting kind. It must be borne in mind that this act may take place—1st. from the introduction of certain sub- stances into the stomach, some of which, as bile, mustard, common salt, not becoming absorbed, must act simply by the impression they make on the mucous membrane; 2. by the introduction of emetics, as Tartar emetic, into the blood, or by the presence of certain morbid poisons in that fluid; 3. by mental emotion, as that excited by the sight of a disgusting object; 4. by irritation at the base of the brain. Vomiting may be caused, therefore, either by the direct application of a stimulus to the gastric surface, or by the disturbance of some part of the brain through the pre- sence of particular substances in the blood, that is, by causes operating from periphery to centre, or by causes acting directly on the centre itself. Either the disturbing cause, as tartar emetic in the blood, affects the medulla oblongata, in which are implanted the vagi nerves; or some of the fibres of these nerves propagate to the centre the effects of the peripheral irritation at the gastric mucous membrane. When the medulla oblongata is thrown into excitement by any of the causes abovementioned, certain motor nerves implanted in it, are stimulated to action, and the abdominal muscles, the diaphragm, and the muscles of the larynx as well as the muscular fibres of the stomach and oesophagus, are thrown into that combined action wliich is essential to the production of active vomiting. When vomiting is the result of a peripheral stimulation, it affords a remarkable example of a reflex or physical nervous action of the most complex kind, in which, from the excitation of a few sentient nerves, the nervous force is made to radiate upon several truded. For half an hour it was seen repeatedly and forcibly contracting itself, till by its own efforts it expelled all its contents except the gases.-See Paget's Report for 1845.