528 GENERATION. [chap. XXXVi. generation and those of the next succeeding there may be several series of these imperfect or larval forms; each larva producing without any generative act, and, indeed, without itself possessing true generative organs, many similar larval forms, until at last these larvEe, instead of producing larvae, give rise to perfect forms, which propagate only by the production of ova. This curious phenomenon occurs amongst many classes of animals; and the subject of late years has engaged the attention of many naturalists. Steenstrup has described the process under the term alternation of generations. Owen terms it metagenesis and parthenogenesis. The facts have been explained differently by dif- ferent observers; the two most important theories being the fol- lowing : according to the first, the subsequent broods result by a process resembling budding, taking place within the bodies of their predecessors; while the second supposes that a portion of the original germ-mass is actually transmitted from the parent through the whole series of beings existing between two generative acts. The latter view has been most ably advocated by Professor Owen, in his lectures on Parthenogenesis; and the former is supported by Dr. Carpenter. In the Campanularia dichotoma, one of the tribe of polyps, at certain periods, buds are developed from the stem, which do not become converted into polyps, but, after having reached a certain stage of development, di'op off, and in their mature state are seen as transparent disc-like bodies, having the power of swimming about in the water. These creatm'cs have long been known as Medusae, or jelly-fishes. It must be remarked, that no generative organs are to be foimd in the polyp; but these organs are found in the Medusae, in which also ova are developed. The ova become polyps, which eventually put forth Medusa-buds as before. In another polyp, the Strobila, at certain periods, multiplication by the formation of buds ceases, and the body of the polyp be- comes constricted, and at the same time much elongated. The constrictions, which may be as many as forty in number, gradually become deeper, until at length the body of the polyp becomes divided into a number of flattened discs. The terminal disc drops off, and appears as a free swimming Medusa, in which generative organs are found and ova produced. The other discs fall off suc- cessively, and in like manner become Medusae. These polyps, therefore, Avould with propriety be considered as belonging to the class Acalephffi, the Medusa representing the perfect condition of these animals.