418 ANIMAL HEAT. [chap. XXX. M. Hubert, in the Isle of France, encircled a thermometer with twelve spikes of the arum cordifolium, and found it rise to 121° Y., the temperature of the external air being 66°. During the process of flowering, the spathe of the arum maculatum consumed in 24 hours five times its volume of oxygen derived from the surrounding atmosphere, the termination of the spadix 30 times, and the sexual apparatus 132 times its volume, in the same period. In these experiments it was found, that if the plaut was protected from the influence of the surrounding air, the development of heat ceased. In the germination of seeds, the starch is converted into gum or dextrine, and ultimately into sugar. The sugar then disappears, while oxygen is absorbed from the air, and carbonic acid evolved. The temperature at the same time rises. In these examples, the disappearance of the starch and saccharine matters from the plant, the absorption of oxygen, the formation of carbonic acid, and the development of heat are all manifestly connected. A corresponding series of phenomena attends the de- velopment of heat in animals. Development of Heat in Animals.—It is to be observed in the first place, that as all animals give out carbonic acid in their respiration, so all develope heat, wdiether they are called cold-blooded (reptiles and all below them), or warm-blooded (mammalia and birds). The cold-blooded animals are those which develope so little heat, form and give out so little carbonic acid, that they are unable to maiu- tain a temperature much removed from that of the medium in which they live; and their circulatory and breathing organs are entirely accordant with this feeble calorifacient power. Dr. John Davy, who has made a number of valuable and exact observations on this, subject, found that when the average temperature around was 79*7° F., that of reptiles was only 82°, and that of fishes nearly the same. In the case of insects, Crustacea, and mollusca, there is even a closer correspondence with the temperature of the circum- ambient medium. Insects, however, especially when housed in communities, so that their heat is not rapidly dissipated, have shown a rise of 20° F. above the outward air—provided they were in a state of active movement. On tliis point, the observations of Mr. Newport are very valuable. On the other hand, warm-blooded animals (birds and mammalia), are those in which nutrition with all its attendant accessory functions, assimilation, circulation, respiration, the supply of food, and of oxygen, the formation and disengagement of carbonic acid are most active and energetic. These have a nearly uniform temperature within the limits of 96°