473 CHAP. XXXIU.] NERVES AND LYMPHATICS. ings of the small branches of tlie hepatic vein (intralobular vein) are seen in the centre of each lobule, while in Fig. 220, which represents a porial vein laid open, the orifices of the smallest branches are seen in the spaces between tAvo lobules (interlobular veins). The capillaries in the cen- tral part of the lobule open into the small twig of the hepatic vein upon all sides. These points are well seen in the pig's liver, Avhere the lo- bules are distinct, but in the human and other livers, the arrangement varies slightly in consequence of the lobules communicating with each other the intervals between the Fig. 225. Longitudinal section of nn hepatic vein. a. Tortion oftliccanal from which the vein has been removed. 6. Orifices of ultiinate twigs of the vein (inlnilobiihir) situated in the centre of the lobules, alter Kiernan. Compare the ammgement of the small veins in this figure with the branches of the porial vein in tig. 220. interlobular fissures (Fig. 217) Nerves and Lymphatics.—The nerves of the liver are derived chiefly from the sympathetic, but a few branches of the vagus are also distributed to the organ. They consist of tubular and gelati- nous nerve fibres, and are distributed principally upon the walls of the artery over which they form a network. Branches may be traced into Glisson's capsule, and to the coats of the gall bladder and larger ducts, as well as to the coats of the larger branches of the hepatic vein. The lymphatics are found in considerable abundance in the liver; they are distributed to the gall bladder, and form a network upon the sm'face of the organ underneath the peritoneum. An abundant network of lymphatics exists in the largest portal canals, and Avhen the ducts are injected, it not unfrequently happens that a small branch bursts, and the injection escapes into the lymphatics. In this way, some lymphatic glands near the liver are often in- jected, and the injection sometimes even reaches the thoracic duct, as occurred to Mr. Kiernan, and also to Dr. Beale. Of the Liver Cells.—From what has been already stated, with regard to the arrangement of the solid capillary venous plexus of the lobules, it will be inferred that the cells occupy the meshes of this I I