CHAP, xviii.] THE COCIILEARIS MUSCLE. 79 Fi>. 110. marked in the midclle, aud are again fainter ere they cease, which they do at a curved line on the opposite side. Beyond this the memhranous zone is again clear, and homogeneous, and receives the insertion of the cochlearis muscle. The inner dear belt of the membranous zone is little affected hy acids. It seems hard and brittle. The middle or pectinate ])ortion is more flexible, and tears in the direction of the lines. The outer clear lelt is swollen, and partially destroyed hy the action of acetic acid. Along the inner clear belt, and on its tympanic surface, runs a single, some- times branched vessel, which would be most correctly called a ca- pacious capillary, as it resembles the capillaries in the texture of its wall, but exceeds them in size. It is the only vessel supplied to the membranous zone, and seems to be thus regularly placed, that it may not mar the perfection of the part as a recipient and propagator of sonorous vibrations. Of the Goclilearis Muscle.—At its outer or convex margin, the mem- branous zone is connected to the outer wall by a semi-transparent struc- ture. This gelatinous looking tissue was observed by Breschet, and is in- deed very obvious on opening the cochlea; but we are not aware of any one having hinted at what we regard to be its real nature. The outer wall of the cochlear canal pre- sents a gi'oove, ascending the entire coil, opposite the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, and formed princi- pally by a rim of bone, which, in section, looks like a spur (fig. 137, ^), projecting from the tympanic margin of the groove, the opposite margin being very slightly or not at all marked. This groove diminishes in size tow^ards the apex of the coch- lea. It gives attachment to the structure in question, by means of a firm dense film of tissue, having a fibrous character, and the fibres of which run lengthwise in the groove, and are intimately united to it, especially along the projecting rim. From this coclilear ligament^ the cochlearis muscle passes to the margin of the membranous zone, filling the groove, and projecting into the canal, so as to assist in dividing the tympanic and vestibular scala) from one another, and thus forming in fact the most external, or the muscular zone of the sjjiral lamina. Inner view of cochlearis muscle of the sheep. a. Line of attachment of membranous zone of lamina spiralis, of which a portion, A, remains attached. The surface below this line is in the scala tympani; the surface aljovc, in the Ecala vestibuU. c. Projecting colunms, with intervening recesses, in the vestibular part of the cochlearis muscle.