INNERVATION. [ciIAP. XVIII, 84 Of the vestibular nerves.—In consequence of the thickness of the wall of the membranous labyrinth where the nerves enter, and the presence there of the calcareous and fibrous matter, it is not easy to ascertain with certainty the precise manner in which the nerves ter- minate. In the utricle and saccule, they appear to spread out from one another as they enter, and then to pass, some to mingle with the calcareous powder, others to radiate for a small extent on the inner surface of the wall of the cavity, where they come into connexion with a layer of dark and closely-set nucleated cells, and presently lose their white substance. We have seen a fibrous film on the inner surface of these parts which we are disposed to consider as formed, like the inner surface of the retina, by the union of the axis-cylin- ders of the nerve-tubes, but confirmatory observations are required. Those that traverse the calcareous clusters have appeared to us, in the most lucid views we have succeeded in obtaiuing, to terminate ^.^ by free, pointed extremities, without losing their white sub- stance. In the frog this has been evident enough. The nervous twigs belong- ing to the semicircular canals do not seem to advance be- yond the ampullai, in which they have a remarkable dis- tribution, entering them, as Steifensand has well shomi, by a transverse or forked groove on their concave side, and which reaches about a third round. Within this, the nerve projects so as to form a sort of transverse bulge within the am- pulla. Their precise termination can be best seen in the osseous fishes, and has been described by Wagner to be looplike, as will be apparent from the adjoined figure. We believe we have seen this mode of termination, though certainly never so plainly as the figure given by this excellent author would indicate; and we may add that we have found free extremities to the nerve-tubes, as well as loopings, in the ampuUse of the cod. The difficulty in these cases of ascertaining the exact truth arises from the curves formed by the nerve-tubes in proceeding to their destination, and which are liable to be mistaken for terminal loopings. View of the neires going to the membranous labjj- rinth :—a. Brauch to the ampulla of one of the semi- circular can;ils. It is seen perforating the wall and expimiUng transversely within, b. Semicircular canal cut across. Krom Steifensand.