|: cHAP.xxvHi.] VELOCITY OF THE ARTERIAL CIRCULATION. 363 " in the column of blood to a variable extent at and after each pulse. This observation has been confirmed by Ludwig, and also by Volk- mann. The rise corresponds to the heart's systole, the fall to the diastole. This affords, in the greatest part of the arterial system, \ the clearest proof of the extension of the heart's influence through- out it. And Poiseuille showed that the pulsations of the heart could be counted by noticing the advance of the blood in pulses along the capillaries, and, under certain circumstances, even along the small ( veins. Influence of Respiration.—That respiration exercises an influence j upon the circulation has been likewise noticed by several observers. Hales had referred to this ; he had noticed how the straining efforts of the animals which were made the subjects of his ex- periments, were followed by a rise of the column of blood in the j tube, and how the same effect followed deep sighing. And Poi- seuille found that during expiration the height of the column of mercury was much increased, but that it fell in inspiration. In forced and deep inspirations the force of the heart becomes so much diminished in some cases that no pulse, or at most a very feeble one, can be felt at the wrist: on the other hand, in forcible expirations the pressure of the blood in the arteries becomes double its normal amount. This has been further confirmed by Ludwig and Volk- mann. The fact is of practical interest, and affords good reasons why the practitioner should caution those whose arteries are weak- ened by a diseased state of their tunics, against strong efforts, or against any action likely to disturb the quiet and freedom of the breathing. The heart's force is materially weakened, as Blake's experiments show, by the introduction into the circulation of poisonous agents of a sedative nature. And there is every reason to believe that the existence of particular animal poisons in the blood, as the , typhus poison, that of scarlet fever, of erysipelas, &c., is capable of i depressing the heart and weakening the circulation. Thus then, as far as regards the powers by which the blood is moved in the arteries, it may be stated that the circulation is main- I tained in them by the force of the heart; replaced and propagated I throughout the system by the elastic reaction of the arterial tunics, ! and to a certain extent restrained or modified by the muscular con- traction of the same tunic, which likewise serves very accurately to adapt the size of the arteries to the quantity of blood contained in I them. On the Velocity loith which ihe Blood moves in the Arteries.— B B 2 ,1