328 THE CIRCULATION OF TME BLOOD. [chap, xxviii. -V-'cAr'irJ tlie TVijTjth of an inch, to iViiffth, according to the measurements of Weber. The finest capillaries are found in the brain (fig. 195 a) and in the retina; those of muscles, especially the cross branches which intersect the fibres, are likewise very fine. Among the largest are those of the lung and liver. The capillaries form a net-work in each tissue or organ, which derives its nourishment directly from them, and they Fig. 194. exhibit an arrangement adapted to the disposition of its proximate elements. In the tissues which assume a fibrous form, as muscle, nerve, fibrous tissue, the capillaries are disposed in lines parallel to the fibres, and these parallel vessels are united at variable intervals by cross branches, which pass at right angles to the fibres. (See figs. 47, 95, 161, 162, and 194). In compound or involuted mucous membranes, the capil- Arrangcmcnt of the capillaries on the laricS form a pleXUS with mOrC Or leSS mucous membrane of the large intestine . , , i • i i • in the human subject. Magnified 50 CU'CUlar mCSlieS, WlUCh COrreSpOUQ lU form and size to the arrangement of the membrane—good examples of this are found in the mucous mem- brane of the stomach and of the intestines (fig. 194). When the elements of the mucous membrane are prolonged into processes, forming villi or papilke, each villus or papilla is found to possess its plexus or system of minute capillary vessels (figs. 161 and 162). In the simple mucous membranes, and in serous membranes, the plexus of capillaries placed in the submucous or subserous areolar tissue exhibits large and irregular meshes. In the compound tissues the capillaries have no direct relation to the ultimate anatomical elements—that is to say, these mi- nute vessels do not ramify among the ultimate particles of the tissues. It is with their proximate elements they connect them- selves. Thus in muscle the vessels lie between the fibres, and are separated from the sarcous particles b}'^ the sarcolemma: in nerve, in the same way, they are separated from the nervous matter by the tubular membrane ; and in the vesicular matter they play around the vesicles and do not penetrate them. In most of the mucous membranes the basement membrane is placed between them and the epitlielium, their nidus being the sub-basement tissue. So, also, with the serous membranes. In bone the finest vessels