CHAP. XXXIX.] TRUE AND FALSE CORPORA LUTEA. 00/ sometimes forms a very remarkable prominence on the surface of the ovary. The corpus hiteum of menstruation is smaller than that following conception; its yellow colour appears very rapidly, and soon fades. In the course of one or two months, after their first appearance, they are no longer to be distinguished. Virgin corpora lutea are not vascular, and cannot be injected. If a section of the corpus lutcum be made, a small cavity will be found in the interior, from which several lines appear to radiate towards its external surface. This little cavity gi'adually contracts, and ultimately disappears. According to Dr. Montgomery, within the first three or four months of pregnancy, the cavity is large enough to contain a grain of wheat, and often much larger. The same observer has always found the cavity absent after the sixth month; usually it seems to disappear between the fourth and fifth months. A few months after delivery, the corpus luteum entirely disappears. Dr. Montgomery never saw one later than the end of the fifth month after delivery. In a medico-legal point of view, the characters of the corpus luteum are sometimes of great importance, and it will be well to recapitulate the most important. The true corpus luteum of pregnancy possesses very well marked characters, by which it may be distinguished from the false corpus luteum. Its projection from the surface of the ovary; its large size, often equal to that of a mulberry, and its rounded form ; the triangular depression and cicatrix upon its surface; the little cavity in its centre during the earlier period of its formation, or the stellate i cicatrix during the latter part of pregnancy; its lobulated or 1 puckered appearance; its firm consistence and yellow colour; its great vascularity, as may be shown by injection, and its persistence for some time after delivery, are all important points in which the true corpora lutea contrast remarkably with those which ai'C formed where conception has not taken place. The false corpora lutea are I small in size, and do not project from the surface of the ovary; ! they are often angular in form, seldom present any external cicatrix, contain no cavity or stellate marking in the centre; the material of which they are composed is not lobulated, and 1 their consistence is usually very soft; they often resemble coagu- ; lated blood; the yellow material exists in the form of a very thin j layer, or, as is more commonly the case, not a trace of this sub- 1 stance is present. False corpora lutea are easily broken down, and often consist either of small cysts, containing serum, or of a simple coagulura.