[chap, XXXI. VOICE. 432 Fig. 210. the voice. If a current of air be made to play on the vocal cliords by a bellows fixed to the tracheal end of the larynx, or by blomng air through it, distinct vocal sounds are excited Avhicli can be varied by altering the tension of the vocal chords. There is no instance of true voice among tlie lower orders of creation except in those animals that have a larynx connected with the respiratory apparatus as in man. In other words, aU animals that have no larynx are voiceless. The hum of insects is a phenomenon esseutially diflPerent from voice, and is caused by the rapid vibration of an apparatus connected with their wings. All the other invertebrated classes are incapable of producing sounds. Fishes, likewise, are voiceless. The Batrachian reptiles possess a larynx and can produce vocal sounds. The hiss- ing of serpents is, like\vise, la- ryngeal. But the Chelonian rep- tiles have no voice. In birds there are two organs placed, the one in front of the other, to which the name of larynx has been given by anatomists ; of these, the lower, or that nearest the lungs, is the true vocal ap- paratus; the upper is merely a resonating or reciprocating ca- vity destined to enhance the in- tensity of the sounds generated in the lower. Cuvier showed that an opening between the two organs did not destroy the power of producing sounds, so long as the inferior larynx was unin- jured. The human larynx is a kind of box^ composed of pieces which may be moved on eacli other, and encloses the membranous bands in which the vocal vibrations are produced. These pieces, when articulated togetherj constitute the skeleton of the larynx. They are com- Cartilages of larynx and epiglottis, and upper rings of pOSCd of CartilagC, and form traehea m site seen from behind. From a preparation m „p«v pnrinns mpphauism the Anatomical Museum, King's CollcKe, by Mr. Cane. a VCiy CUriOUS mLCUtUllhUJ. a. arytenoid cartilages. 6. superior coruu. c. mferior mi _ „ nyp fivp flistinf t niprCS conm. d. posterior surface of cricoid, e. foramen for supe- inClC arC HVC GlStmCt pieces rior laryngeal nerve. /. perforations of epiglottis, (. upper /i. f ^vl^ipT, nrc SVmmC- margin of thyroid, /.trachea. A. right inferior tubercle. ^.tWO OI WHICH <u u syiiiiii^