345 ACTION OF THE HEART. CHAP. XXVIU.] the regurgitation of a portion of the blood after each systole of the ventricle, a bellows sound becomes generated which usurps the place of the clicking second sound. But the moment the valve is allowed to resume its play, the natural click returns. That this is the correct interpretation of the sounds of the heart, is further proved by the observation of the influence of various mor- bid states of that organ upon them. Thus the first sound is modified by whatever increases or weakens the intensity of the ventricular systole, of the impulse, and of the tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves; and when the latter takes place imperfectly by reason of the insufficiency of the valves to close the orifices, the first sound is accompanied (not replaced) by a bellows sound due to the regurgi- tation of blood from ventricle to auricle. Again, should one or more of the semilunar valves be so injured or altered as to prevent the complete closure of the arterial orifice, at the time of the diastole, the second sound is replaced by a bellows sound, just as in the experiment above detailed. The regular succession of the two sounds and the pause, bearing to each other the relative duration already mentioned, constitutes the rhythm of the heart.* Sometimes the pause lasts for a much longer period than a fourth of the whole, for as long or longer than would suffice for the developement of the other two sounds. Under these circumstances the heart is said to intermit, and its rhythm is interrupted. At every systole of the heart an impulse is felt in all the large arteries of the body, which is synchronous with the contraction of the ventricles, or so nearly that the difference is inappreciable ex- cept in very distant arteries as those of the tarsus. This impulse in the arteries constitutes the pulse—which will be fully described by and by (p. 353), and which, from its general accordance with the heart's action, affords the readiest means of judging of the heart's rhythm, and counting the frequency of its action. When the rhythm of the heart is regular, this succession of first and second sound (systole and diastole) and pause may be heard a certain number of times in a minute in each individual, and by a series of observations, the scale maybe formed shewing the average frequency of the heart's action at different periods of life in man. This is shewn in the following table, which is that formed by our able friend and colleague. Dr. Guy, from a comparison of numerous observations.-f- * Some observers admit the existence of a sliort pause after the first sound, t Art. Pulse, Cycl. Anat. and Phys. VOL. II. A A