INNERVATION. [chap, XVll. 56 fibrous interna] surface with the axes of the tubules of the optic nerve, and having its external surface formed by a structure similar to that of the cineritious substance of the cerebral hemispheres. Its per- meation by a close network of capillaries assimilates it still further to the gray nervous matter; for wliich reasons it may be con- sidered as a portion of the cerebrum advanced towards the surface of the body into a suitable relation to a dioptric apparatus for the reception of rays of light from external objects. The optic nerve may be regarded as a commissure between the gray nervous sheet within the sclerotic, and the gray nervous matter of certain parts of the cerebrum. We have no more reason to deny the immediate connexion of the sensorium with the retina, than its immediate connexion with any small portion of the cerebral convolutions, duly united with the rest. The nature of the connexions between the retina and the brain, and the phenomena to which their dis- ruption gives rise, have been the occasion of many interesting speculations regarding the mode in which the mind is reached, or, in other words, as to how an impression on the retina becomes a sensation to the mind. But we shall probably be disappointed if we imagine that any facts which have been or may be hereafter ascertained, are capable of leading to the solution of a problem too inscrutable for our limited powers. It is a matter of considerable interest, as regards the mode of action of the retina in vision, to determine how distant the images of two points on the retina must be, to be seen distinctly as two ; in other words, how small a portion of the retina is capable of independent sensation. As the result of many experiments and calculations by Smith, Harris, and others, this may be stated as probably about mm of an inch, so that the objects must subtend an angle of at least 40". Two points within an angle of that size would appear as one. It is a question somewhat different, what is the smallest portion of the retina capable of sensation ; and undoubtedly an object whose sides subtend an angle very much smaller than the preceding may be visible, if sufficiently bright. But this circumstance of quantity of light introduces a difficulty into the inquiry, since even a mathematical point, if sufficiently brilliant and out of focus, might become visible by its circle of aberration on the retina ; although, if its rays met in the retina, it would be invisible. But, in carrying our speculations thus far, we must cease to regard the retina as a mathematical plane, and re- member that it has a certain thickness, in traversing which the rays would necessarily cover more than a point, either in front of or