CHAP. XXI.] THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 133 more justly regarded as a nerve originating from the sympathetic gancrliou, which hy some of its fihres connects that ganghon to the gano-lion on the posterior spinal root, and hy others is distributed to the vessels of the cord. This is the conclusion which Mr. Beck's recent researches have led him to adopt, and the careful examination of his very able dissections induces us to believe this to be the cor- rect view. The white root, or the bundle of tubular fibres, when traced to the spinal nerve, appears like a branch of it, i. e. a series of fibres, separating from it, and passing to the sympathetic. It derives fibres in nearly equal numbers from the anterior and the posterior root. In every instance it may be seen, spreading out upon the adjacent sympathetic ganglion, passing through its vesicular matter, and following the course of the trunk of the sympathetic for a longer or shorter way, and then proceeding from it in connexion with its gelatinous fibres chiefly to viscera. Mr. Beck informs us that he can, under the microscope, distinctly trace the continuity of these fibres tlirougl the ganglion, and he is of opinion that they do not form any organic connexion (as some fibres in ganglia and other nervous centres undoubtedly do) with the vesicles of the ganglion, beyond that which might result from passing between them. These fibres, then, according to this statement, must be re- garded as a branch of the spinal nerve, distributed in connexion with gelatinous fibres derived from the sympathetic ganglion to vis- cera and other parts. If this view of the anatomical relation between the sympathetic ganglia and the cerebro-spinal nerves be correct, it seems evident that the proper sympathetic fibres must be viewed as a separate portion of the nervous system, consisting entirely of gelatinous or nucleated fibres which originate in the vesicular matter of the sym- pathetic ganglia. These fibres, however, are accompanied in their course by tubular fibres, derived from the cercbro-spinal nerves, which pass over or through the sympathetic ganglia without form- ing any intimate connexion with them, and which are distributed along with the gelatinous fibres to viscera and other parts. 1. Of the Cephalic portion of the syrapatheiic. This portion of the sympathetic consists of ganglia, which occupy different parts of the head, and are connected with each other, and with the superior cervical ganglion. They are four in number:— 1. The ophthalmic ganglion. 2. The sphenopalatine, or Meckel's ganglion. 3. The otic ganglion, discovered by Arnold. 4. The submaxillary ganglion.