554 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. [chap, xxxviii mature ova than in ova at an early stage of development, as was pointed out by Bisclioff, an observation which we can fully confirm. Tliey appear to be composed of a protein compound, with mucli fatty matter. Germinal Vesicle.—The germinal vesicle, or vesicle of Purkinje consists of a perfectly clear cell, filled with transparent contents, but containing one dark spot, the germinal spot. From some observations of Kolliker and Bagge upon the de- velopment of the ova of intestinal worms, it appears that the germinal spot is the part of the ovum which is first formed; but it may be regarded as a fact, that rtie germinal vesicle precedes the formation of the yolk and the zona pellucida. The immediate formative organ of the ovum is the Graafian vesicle. As the ovum approaches maturity, it passes from the centre of the Graafian follicle towards its peripheral portion, and becomes imbedded in the membrana gramdosa, which increases in thickness until it entirely surrounds the ovum. At the same time, the zona pellucida increases in thickness, and the germinal vesicle, which was originally situated in the centre of the yolk, makes its way towards the circumference. Parovarium.—Diverging from the hilus of the ovary, may be seen a few canals, which appear to be the remains of the Wolffian body, an organ which reaches its maximum of development in intra- uterine life. These tubes have been termed the parovarium. Fallopian Tube.—The Fallopian tube, or oviduct,!^ a fibro-muscular canal, lined with ciliated epithelium, opening by one extremity into the uterus and terminating in the other by a wide fimbriated orifice, morsus diaholi, which opens into the cavity of the perito- neum. Each Fallopian tube is usuall}'^, however, connected to the corresponding ovary by one of its fimbrias. The Fallopian tube is invested with peritoneum, and at the fim- briated extremity, the serous membrane becomes continuous with its mucous lining. The muscular fibres of the Fallopian tube are disposed in two layers; the external having a longitudinal and the more internal a circular course. The contractile fibres are mixed with much fibrous tissue. The contraction of the oviduct has a vermicular character. The mucous membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds, upon which lies a single layer of columnar epi- thelium. These cells are ciliated, and by the vibration of the cilia, a cm-rent is produced, the direction of which is from the ovaries towards the uterus; so that the transmission of the ovum into the uterus would be favored, while the passage of the spermatozoa along the tube would be retarded.