CHAP. XXV.] DIGESTION IN THE LARGE INTESTINE. 265 disease, and after death no lesion is discoverable, but slight enlarge- ment of the liver. We have already remarked that the venous blood of the spleen passes along with that from the stomach and intestines through the liver. Recent researches of KoUiker and Ecker offer some expla- nation of this fact, and at the same time of the relation between hccmatine and the colouring matter of bile, as well as between the office of the Hver and the generation of the red particles of the blood. It would appear from these researches, which will be detailed when we come to treat of the spleen, that the red blood-corpuscles undergo decay in the red substance of the spleen, giving up their hajmatine in an altered form to the portal blood, from which it may not improbably, as Kolliker conjectures, pass into the bile cells to form, and to be eliminated as, the biliary colouring matter; and, perhaps, also to contribute to supply haematine to new blood-cells developed in the liver."!' Of Digestion in tJie large Intestine.—The contents of the large intestine, which constitute the fwces properly so called, differ much from those of the small intestine. Generally, and in the normal state, they are more solid, more homogeneous, exhibiting a certain form, which is determined by the size and shape of the cells of the colon. These characters are more marked the further the faeces have advanced in the colon. The changes, upon which depends the difference of character of the contents of the large and small intestine, commence in the coecum. Many facts lead to the opinion that the intestinal contents undergo some further digestion in the ccecum, analogous to that of the stomach. Schulz affirms that an acid fluid is secreted by the mucous membrane of the ccecum, which is more distinct in herbivora than in carnivora; Bernard and Blondlot state that the acidity of this I fluid is due to the presence of lactic acid.:]: In dogs, we have found I that litmus applied to the surface of the ccccal mucous membrane !became reddened in some, but not in others; a difference probably rJepending upon some peculiarity in the food or the time of digestion. IThe remarkable developement of the ccecum in some animals as compared with others, denotes that it must exercise some special unction. In herbivora its size is especially large ; in carnivora, it s small. Moreover, the mucous membrane of the ccecum resembles • Kolliker iiber die Blutkorperchen dcr Mensclilichcn Embryo und die Entwick- lung dcr Blutkorperchen dcr Saugethieren. t Cycl. Anat. and Phys.; art. Spleen. X Gazette Med. de Paris, 1844. VOL. II. n.