INNEKYATION. [chap. xvin. tension of the memhrana tyrapani, and, on the other hand, the contraction of the interuus mallei depresses the stapes, and conse- quently increases the tension of the membranes of the two fenestra). The cessation of muscular action restores all three membranes to their original laxity, nor does it appear that they admit of any fur- ther degree of relaxation through the influence of any vital process. The incus forms a bond of union between the two other bones, and its motions depend entirely upon theirs in consequence of its ar- ticulation with both, while from the fixedness of its connexion Avith the mastoid cells, as well as from its intermediate position and want of muscular attachment, its motions must obviously be much more limited than those of the other bones. Its use seems to be to complete the chain in such a manner, that by reason of its double articulation with the malleus on the one hand and the stapes on the other, the tension of the tympanic membranes may be regulated without any sudden or violent motion, which could scarcely be avoided were the conductor between the membranes of the tym- panum and fenestra ovalis but one piece of bone. The mobility of the tympanic bones has, however, a further use, as Muller suggests ; namely, to favour the oscillations of the mem- brana tympaui, by allowing the approximation of the two extremi- ties of the chain of bones. And this opinion is strengthened by the facts of comparative anatomy, for the ossicles have moveable articu- lations in the frog, as in man, although they have no muscles at- tached to them. The addition of a cavity filled with air outside the labyrinth has a twofold use. First, to preserve uniformity of temperature in the air immediately in contact with the fenestral membranes. Were these membranes situate on the exterior of the head, and exposed to the surrounding atmosphere, they would be constantly under- o-oing changes in their elastic state, under the influence of atmo- spheric vicissitudes. The air which accumulates in the tympa- num and mastoid cells, finds its way into them only through the Eustachian tubes, and as it does not readily change its position, it is well placed for maintaining a temperature equal to that of the body. Secondly, the action of the chain of ossicles as conductors is materially enhanced by their being completely surrounded by air. The insulation of a solid body by a diiferent medium renders it a better propagator of sound ; for the surrounding medium will obviate the dispersion of sound, and will favour its retention in the solid cou- ductor. • /. ii It results from Savart's experiments, that tension of the mem-