585 PRIMITIVE STREAK. CHAP. XLI.] but whether its contents become mixed up with the substance of the yolk, or new cell-formations primarily result from it, has not yet been conclusively determined. By the aggregation of cells upon the surface of the yolk, a sort of membrane, composed of pentagonal cells with nuclei is formed within the zona pellucida, or yolk-membrane. This is called the blastodermic vesicle, and in its mode of formation nearly con-esponds to the germinal membrane of the bird's egg. The chorion, or outermost membrane investing the ovum, is formed by the gradual coalescence of the zona pellucida, and the layer of albuminous material Avith Avhich it is covered. The chorion is at first smooth, but villi are subsequently developed all over its surface. Beneath the chorion is the blastodermic vesicle, which gTadually increases in thickness by the growth of new cells upon its internal surface. In consequence of the great difficulty experienced in procuring human ova at a very early period in a perfectly normal state, and in sufficient number, physiologists have been compelled to make direct observations upon the lower animals, and to assume that a series of changes precisely similar takes place in the human ovum, an inference which has been of late years fully justified by dii'cct observation. In discussing this part of our subject, we shall, therefore, infer that the early embryonic changes occur in a similar order, and are of the same essential character in all mammalia, except, of course, with reference to the precise period at which they take place, which necessarily differs in various animals, according to the duration of pregnancy. For much that we know of the development of the mammalian ovum, we are indebted to the beau- tiful researches of Bischoff upon the ova of the dog, rabbit, guinea-pig, and deer. Primitive Streak.~At a period varying from the twelfth to the sixteenth day, the dog's ovum assumes a more oval form. It is about three lines in length, and about a line and a half in its short diameter. Its external surface is as yet perfectly smooth, for none of the tufts or viUosities of the chorion are developed. The central clear space (area pellucida or germinitiva) is seen to be surrounded by a darker circle, which eventually becomes the vascular area. In the centre of the clear space a line is soon observed. This is the first trace of the embryo, the primitive streak, Avhich appears in the form of a straight white line, or very shallow groove. It Hes across the short axis of the ovum, and therefore occupies a position precisely similar to the embryo chick. VOL. II. Q Q