OF LUNGS. CHAP. XLII.] 605 Anterior Venous Trunks. —At an early period of development of the human embryo, the veins entering the heart from the upper part of the body are symmetrical; and in many of the lower animals they preserve this arrangement throughoiit life. As the development of the human embryo advances the large venous trunk on the left side diminishes, and subsequently disappears entirely, leaving the right trunk only as a persistent vessel. In a valuable paper published in the Philosophical Transactions, Mr. J. Marshall shows, that the dilated portion of the coronary vein, the coronary sinus, is the persistent lower portion of the left anterior vein. It is interesting, that in animals which have a left superior cava, the great cardiac coronary vein opens into it. Even in the adult human heart there are certain structures which are obviously the remains of the upper portion of the left primitive venous trunk. These observations are very interesting, as they serve to explain certain unusual arrangements in the great anterior veins. Cases are recorded in which the two symmetrical trunks, usually only found at a very early period of development, remain persistent in the adult—an abnormal condition which receives explanation from the investigation of the nature of the early embryonic changes. Development of the Lungs.—The lungs are first seen in the form of two small masses of cells, at the lower part of the oesophagus. These masses gradually increase in size, and a cavity is formed within. They coalesce at the upper part, which ultimately becomes the trachea. At this period of their development, the respiratory or- gans appear in tlie form of vesicles, appended to the lower part of the trachea. Reichert has shown that in the chick the lungs appear about the same time as the liver, and states, that although they seem to take their rise from the memhrana in- termedia (lying between the rudi- mentary nervous centres and the mucous membrane, p. 582), the upper portion of the visceral tube, according to his observations, is the real seat of their orisrin. Thyroid Glands.—The first traces of the thyroid are observed in Fig. 285. iJevelopmeiit of lesiiii-utory organs, sliowing origin of lungs from upper part of alimentary canal, after llathke. A. CEsophagus of a chick on the fourth day of incubation. The rudiments of the trachea and lungs of the left side. I. Inferior wall of the oesophagus; 2. superior wall; 3. rudimentary lung; 4. stomach. B. The same seen from below. C. Tongue and respira- tory organs of the embryo of a horse. 1. Tongue ; 2. lar>iix; 3. trachea; 4. lungs seen from behind.