CHAP, XXIX.] MOVEMENTS OF RESriRATION. 398 observations; whereas in wonaen, tins movement is very obvious, particularly in the upper ribs. It is not improbable that the cause of this may lie in the narrower waist of the female, obliging an undue enlargement of the upper part of the thorax to compensate for the smaller size and less dilatability of the ample base. The separation of the ribs and widening of the intercostal spaces when the chest is enlarged, are proved by measurement both in the living and dead. Dr. Hutchinson has made casts of the interior under both states. Dr. Sibson divides the ribs into three sets, a superior set of five separately joining the sternum, an intermediate set of three, with conjoint cartilages, and an inferior or diaphragmatic set of four with floating cartilages. He considers that all, except the upper four in their front part, diverge from one another in inspiration, the inferior set the most, but the lowest of all remain- ing stationary. Messrs. Beau and Maissiat* describe three varieties of ordinary respiration : 1. Abdominal, or that chiefly effected by the diaphragm, and apparent in the motion of the abdominal walls. This occurs in infants up to the end of the third year, and in males generally. 2. Costo-inferior, or that in which the lower ribs (those of Mr. Sibson's intermediate and inferior sets) are observed to act. This is observed in boys after three, and in men. 3. Costo-superior, or that effected in a considerable degree by the upper ribs. This is observed in females, especially in adults. Action of Muscles.—The diaphragm has an arched form, is highest in front, lowest behind. The fibres pass to a central tendon on which is seated the heart in the pericardium, the lungs resting chiefly on the muscular parts. Its contraction would tighten and then depress both the central tendon and the muscle generally, and would also tend to straighten the curves formed by the fibres as they pass from the spine and ribs to the central tendon. Thus the heart would be lowered a little, but, perhaps, the lungs more, and the area of the pulmonary compartments of the thorax would be much enlarged, for the diaphragm acts at their wide and ample base, where a slight range of vertical movement produces a great effect. In its descent the diaphragm presses down the abdominal viscera, and bulges the abdominal walls. In expiration it recedes upwards, being pushed upon by the abdominal walls through the medium of the viscera. The action of the intercostal muscles is less obvious, and had been the subject of much difference of opinion, even before the days of Haller. It may be studied on mechanical principles, and by obser- * Archiv. Gen. <Ie Med. t. xv. p. 399.