357 I ItAP. XXVIII.] THE FORCE OF THE HEART. The difference in the results obtained by Hales, as regards the velocity with which certain fluids passed through the blood-vessels, is referrible to the contractile power of the arteries. Thus, while warm water, injected into the blood-vessels of a dog's bowels, l)assed in fifty-two seconds, the same quantity of common brandy took sixty-eight seconds; cold water (fourteen degrees above freez- ing) was eighty seconds longer in passing than the same quantity of warm water just before. A strong decoction of bark took much longer to pass through the vessels than the same quantity of warm water. Sixteen pots, of equally warm decoction of bark, were suc- cessively poured in, the first of which passed in seventy-two seconds; the sixteenth, " as the vessels grew more and more contracted by thestypticquahty of the decoction," was 224 seconds in passing.* This contractile power in the walls of arteries (their tone or pas- sive contraction) is capable of modifying considerably the character of the pulse. When it is feeble, the artery offers but slight resist- ance to the entrance of the blood, and it therefore yields more completely under the force of the heart. Hence fulness of pulse and feebleness of muscular power or of tone in the wall of the artery, are apt to go together. On the other hand, an exalted muscular power or tone in the wall of the artery, by contracting the arterial tube, and resisting the flow of blood, would cause a small, hard, and even a wir^/ pulse ; or a similar effect might be produced by an irritating fluid, as a diseased blood, passing through the artery. Again, failure of the tonic property of the arterial wall causes a compressible pulse; an excited or well-developed tonic power, will cause an incompressible pulse. 0/ the Force of the Heart.—The blood encounters considerable obstacles to its passage through the vascular system, which tend to bring it to a state of rest. The friction against the inner surface of the vessels, and the resistance of the elastic and muscular elements of their walls to distension, must be overcome by any force capable of keeping up a continual renewal of the supply of blood to the several organs. Moreover, a certain rate of movement must be maintained in the blood's current. The attainment of these objects is clearly provided for, in the main, by the action of the heart, and that living pump is doubtless endowed with energies sufficient to drive into the blood-vessels renewed supplies of blood, with a dead pass into the state of rigor mortis, like that of other muscles, which will last a certain time; the proper period for anatomical injections is either before the rigor mortis has come on, or after it has ceased. * Haemastaticks, p. 124, etseqq.