476 [chap. XXXIII. LIVER. tube in wliich the cells are contained can be seen in some parts of the lobule, separated from that of the capillary vessels* The liver cells may be broken down in some specimens, and the tubular membrane contain only granular matter suspended in fluid as represented in fig. 237 c. The peculiar and characteristic cells of which the substance of the liver is chiefly composed, are of a more or less spheroidal form, but often somewhat flattened,and many-sided from mutual com- pression. They vary from the to the of an inch in diameter, and sometimes even smaller. Their surface is smooth, and their outline distinct and well-defined. Each contains a distinct nucleus in the interior, and occasionally cells may be observed with two nuclei. In the nucleus a liighly refracting nucleolus, with several granules, can usually be distinguished. The contents of the cell appear to be of a firm viscid consistence, so that when pressed between glass, the contents do not escape suddenlj'^, but the whole cell becomes flattened. Usually there are, in the interior, several oil globules, which, as regards size and number, are subject to great variations. In some cells the entire cavity is occupied by globules, in others not one can be observed ; besides oil globules, distinguished by their light centre and dark well-defined outline, the cell contains in its interior numerous amorphous granules, ■which may vary in size from a scarcely visible dot to a pai'tiele as large as a blood globule, or even larger. Granules of a bright yellow colour, composed of biliary colouring matter, are often met with, but do not occur constantly. In cases of jaundice from obstruction of the duct, the number and size of these coloured particles often increase to an enormous extent, so that the cell appears to be entirely occupied with them, and in extreme cases no distinct cells Avhatever can be detected. In highly fed animals, and in that condition termed fatty degeneration of the liver, so common in cases of phthisis, the cells seem almost entirely occupied by large oil globules, without any coloured particles. The cells at the portal aspect of the lobule usually contain most oil, while those in the centre contain a greater number of coloured granules, but frequently these yellow granules are present in the cells in both situations. In dilute caustic soda, or potash, the cells swell up and become pale, and of a more rounded form; after a short time they are dis- • These specimens were prepared by injecting the ducts with Prussian bhic, and the portal vessels with plain size.