[chap. XXX. ANIMAL HEAT. 422 have lost 10° F. We may here recall the fact, that the quantity of carbonic acid exhaled is greater when the external temperature is low. Mice and guinea-pigs evolve twice as much carbonic acid at 32° as at 60° F., and birds more than double. Also more food, and of the calorifacient kind, is required in winter than in summer, and in cold climates than in warm. The nature of the food must vary with the temperature of the climate, for at the same time that the respirations are less in num- ber in hot than in cold climates, the air is less dense, and contains in a given volume less oxygen; hence a light and succulent diet is better adapted to the requirements of the system, and com- paratively little heat is developed; while, in cold climates, a large quantity of highly carbonaceous food is necessary in order to furnish the requisite supply of heat. In animals which are very active, and which are not subjected to the cooling mfluence of an atmosphere many degrees lower in temperature than their own bodies, it is quite possible that a suffi- cient amount of heat may be generated in the combination of the elements of their tissues Avithout the necessity of fatty or starchy food forming a part of their highly nitrogenous diet. In cold cli- mates, however, a large quantity of readily combustible food is necessary in order to fm-nish the requisite amount of heat. Loss of Heat by Evaporation.—The animal body is contmually sub- ject to evaporation of its fluid parts, just as any other moist sub- stance, and the amount of evaporation, and the consequent loss of heat, will depend on the same causes as in the case of inorganic substances. The moisture, or dryness, of the surrounding air, and its state of motion or rest will mainly influence the result. All the efilects of excessive temperatm'c on the body are much more apparent with a moist than a dry atmosphere; because in the case of a dry atmosphere a greater amount of evaporation takes place, and hence a greater quantity of heat is removed from' the system. In England it would be impossible to sustain a vapour bath at a temperature of 110° or 120° for more than 10 minutes, whereas the body may be without danger exposed for the same time to u dry temperature twice as high or more. In some Avell-kuown ex- periments Sir Charles Blagden remained immersed for 8 minutes in dry air heated to the extraordinary pitch of 240° or 260° F. An oppressive day in summer is one where the air is moist at the same time that it is hot and stagnant. Again, the refrigeration, arising from simple contact of cold an-,