[chap. XXXI1. SECRETION. 456 growth; but in secretion, these separate products, after having probably undergone some changes in the cell, are destined soon to be cast off, and no longer form an integral part of the organism ; while, in nutrition, these elements serve to keep up the integrity of the structure by which they have been appropriated. It may be remarked, that the period of existence of the secreting cell, or the length of its life, varies considerably in different organs. Some- times a very short time is sufficient for its development, growth, and decay; while in other instances, it may persist for a long period of time. Some of the most important modifications of secreting cells will be described under the head of the glands, into the composi- tion of which they enter. Of the Ducts of Glands.—Ducts are tubvdar, usually branched passages, forming continuations between the secreting tissue of the glands and the surface of skin, or mucous membrane, on which the secretion is eventually poured. They are a contrivance by which a large mass of secreting tissue, packed in a small solid space, can discharge its product at a given point. They often present dilatations, wherein the secretion may be delayed for a time, and where, in many instances, it may undergo changes; and they very commonly contain a layer of unsti'iped muscle in their walls, by whose agency their contents are propelled in the proper direction, often against gravity. This contractile tissue is sometimes de- veloped at their orifice into a sphincter muscle. It is only the minuter glands which open directly on a surface, {e.ff., those of Lieberkuhn or Grew, in the intestinal mucous membrane), which are without a duct. The walls of ducts present, most internallj'^, an epithelium and basement tissue, continuous with those of the skin or mucous mem- brane. Outside, there are (when present), the muscular coat and the areolar tissue, which is prolonged upon their exterior in a modified form. Bloodvessels and nerves ramify upon and within the latter coats. We owe the best description of the anatomy of ducts to Henle. The epithelium may vary from the scaly to the columnar or glandular variety, and it is sometimes ciliated. The most common is the columnar, particularly in large ducts. In immediate con- nexion with the proper mucous tissue, comes the muscular element, arranged in two sets of fibres, one longitudinal, the other circular, of which, the latter can usually be seen to be the more internal. The fibrous elements are commonly nucleated, and resemble those of the muscular coats of bloodvessels; then follows areolar tissue,