CHAP. XXIV,] THE GASTRIC JUICE. 205 because he employed a too much dihited fluid : ou concentrating the gastric juice a little the effect was readily produced. Ad- mitting that a free acid is present, they deny that it is hydrochloric acid, because that acid exists in the gastric fluid only in the state of chloride. If a minute quantity of oxalic acid be added to the gastric juice, a precipitation is occasioned by the formation of in- soluble oxalate of lime, whilst an equal quantity of the same re- agent, added to distilled water containing a two-thousandth part of hydrochloric acid, to which chloride of lime had been added, pro- duced no such effect. The lime of the gastric juice unites with the oxalic acid; but that acid will not displace lime from its connexion with hydrochloric acid. Nor is the acid of the gastric juice free acetic acid; the most delicate tests failed to detect it. MM. Bernard and Barreswil infer that there is in the gastric fluid a minute propor- tion of phosphoric acid, which, however, is not the only free acid. The lactic acid, according to these observers, is the principal acid of the gastric juice, because the behaviour of a fluid acidulated with that acid corresponds very exactly under chemical examination with that of the gastric juice. Thus the distillation of water aci- dulated with lactic acid exhibits exactly the same stages as that of the gastric fluid,—first, there passes over only pure water, in the next stage an acid liquid, in which salts of silver do not throw down a precipitate, and there remains a strongly acid fluid effervescing with carbonates ; in this remaining liquid hydrochloric acid may be detected if a minute quantity of chloride of sodium had been added to the fluid previous to distillation. The acid of the gastric juice produces salts of zinc, lime, baryta, and copper, similar to those formed by lactic acid; and MM. Ber- nard and Barreswil aflirm that it readily decomposes the chlorides in concentrated solutions. Hence it is that hydrochloric acid passes over in the last products of the distillation of the gastric juice. These authors also state that the nature of the food appears to exercise no influence upon the nature of the acid, and that they have always found free lactic acid, whether after an exclusive vegetable or animal regimen continued for many days, or after a prolonged very sparing diet. Dr. R. D. Thomson, of Glasgow, in a paper published in 1845, also disproves the opinion of Blondlot by experiment, and comes to the conclusion that the free acid of the stomach, in the digestion of vegetable matter at least, of all the known acids corresponds only with the lactic.