529 CHAP. XXXVI.] ALTEKNATION OF GENERATIONS. The livers of various animals are infested witli an entozoon termed a fluke. The development of the fluke of the common fresh-water snail (Limnseus stagnalis) presents us with a beautiful example of the curious phenomenon we are now considering. In the first stage of its existence it is seen as a creature (Cercaria) swimming about in the water, and is provided with a tail. After a time these cercarise fix themselves to the skin of the snail by means of a circlet of hooks. The tail is cast ofi";, and the body becomes covered with mucus_, which hardens^ until a transparent case is formed. This is the pupa state. Next the creature bores its way into the body of the snail^ and reaches the liver; the hooks drop off, and it possesses all the characters of a fluke or distoma. The fluke develops ova; the ova become developed into worm-like creatures, which inhabit the snails. The worm-like body contains, as it were, a progeny, each member of which becomes the parent of another generation. The original larvse are developed from a perfectly spherical germ, consisting of granules. So that the early stages of life of the fluke are passed in the body of a worm-like creature; the next in the water, free; next, attached to the body of a snail; and, lastly, in a perfectly-developed form in the liver. Thus this creature assumes three distinct forms at different periods of its existence, which, until these discoveries were made, had been described as three distinct creatures. There are numerous other most striking instances among the en- tozoa of this extraordinary change of character in the course of development. It has long been known that the cystic entozoa (as Cysticercus, etc.) are not provided with generative organs; but it was reserved for Van Siebold to show that these entozoa were only the imperfectly developed forms of species occupying a higher position; and he has been able to prove that the ajsticercus fasciolaris, which is found in the liver of the rat and mouse, becomes developed in the intestine of the cat into the tcEnia crassicollis, the common tape- Avorm of that animal. Kuchenmeister and Van Beneden have been able to demonstrate the occurrence of similar changes in many other entozoa. Another beautiful example of metagenesis occurs among the members of a much higher class of animals—insects. The ovum of the perfect winged aphides, or plant lice, becomes developed into an imperfect wingless or larval creature, in which no sexual organs have been discovered. These viviparous but non-sexual larval forms are capable of producing non-sexual descendants, exactly resembling them, without the occui-rence of any generative act.