182 DIGESTION. [chap. xxni. similar lieiglit, and in an uninterrupted row, so the articulation of tlio jaw is intermediate between those of the animal and vegetable feeder. The transverse condyle is received into the glenoid cavity, and in the slighter movements of mastication and articulation does not leave it; but when the grinding teeth are used, or the mouth is opened wide, the condyle leaves the cavity, and slides forwards for nearly an inch on the prominent root of the zygoma. In the latter action the axis of motion is not in the condyles, but a little above the angle of the jaw, and the joint is arthrodial. A similar advance of the condyles may occur with the mouth nearly closed, the lower incisors being then carried to a level with, or even beyond the upper ones. By the advance of one condyle a partial rotation is effected, the centre of motion being in the other condyle ; and when this is performed al- ternately by both sides, together with an elevation of the jaw, the lower molars are moved laterally over the upper, so as to powerfully grind any intervening substance. The temporal, masseteric, and in- ternal pterygoid muscles more or less directly close the jaw. The hinder fibres of the temporal and masseter carry it also backwards, while the main part of the masseter, and especially the internal ptery- goid, advance it. Both pterygoids carry it to the opposite side, chiefly by advancing its ramus, the centre of motion being then in the opposite joint. The external pterygoid neither raises nor de- presses it. The depression of the jaw in mastication seems to be performed solely by the digastric ; and it may be conjectured that even this muscle acts chiefly in its anterior belly, which, imlike the posterior, is supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve, the same which is distributed to the other muscles of mastication. Of Insalivation.—The salivary organs consist of glands opening into the mouth and pharynx, and furnishing a peculiar fluid which is there mixed with the food and carried down with it to the stomach. The principal are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual; and to these may be added a multitude of small detached glands of similar structure, and probably yielding a similar fluid, scattered under the mucous membrane of the lips, cheeks, soft palate, and parts of tho pharynx. The duodenal glands, comprising the pancreas and the glands of Brunner, which have much in common with the salivary glands, will be described at a subsequent page. The salivary glands need not here be severally described. The parotid is remarkable for its proximity to the temporo-maxillary ar- ticulation, and some have attributed its greater activity during mas- tication to the pressure to which it is supposed to be then subjected ; but besides that the fact of ])ressurc may be doubted, so mcchani-