621 ALLANTOIS. CHAP. XLIll.] the late Mr. Dalryniple, who has made some very successful injections of the allantois of the chick. On the outer surface—that -which is in immediate contact with the membrane of the shell—the capillaries are exceedingly abundant, and very minute. Mr. Dal- rymple compares their arrangement to that of the vessels in the air-cells of the lung of reptiles—a resemblance of gi-eat interest, when we consider that in the bird this menabrane per- forms a most impoi'tant part in aerat- ing the blood; indeed, it is through the intervention of the allantois, that all the respiratory changes taking place in the chick are carried on. The air passes through the pores in the shell and membrane beneath, and thus is brought into contact with the blood ramifying in the vessels of the allan- tois. The allantois, as was shown by Rei- chert and others, is connected with the efferent ducts of the WolfiSan bo- dies, and receives the secretion from these glands. In tlie human subject, soon after its formation, a dilatation is observed in that part of the allan- tois nearest the foetus. This is the rudiment of the urinary blad- der. Just at the junction between the vesicular portion and the straight tube which passes from this point to the chorion, a folding or constriction occurs. This indi- cates the first formation of the urachus, which has been erro- neously considered to be situated in that part between the vesi- cle and the foetus. This latter portion however soon becomes di- vided into two tubes, one being connectedwitheach Wolffianbody. These tubes are ultimately con- Fig. 292. Diagrams to show the arrangement of the allan- tois, and tl\e formation of tlie placenta in different classes of animals:— a. A portion of the wall of the nterus. b. Chorion, c. Allantois. d. Umbilical vesicle, e. Amnion. A. In ruminants. The cotyledons, spread o\it over the internal surface of the uterus, fit into cup-sliaped cavities formed by the altered chorion. The allantois is of a very large size, and entirely surrounds the embrj'o. h. In the feia: (cat, etc.), the placenta forms a zone which suiTounds the embo'o like a ring. There are no cotyledons. c. In rodentia and in the human subject. The placenta is limited to one particular part of the chorion. The allantois is very small, and only distinguished at a very early stage.