THE COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES. CHAP. XXVII.] 303 are generated in the liver, as first pointed out by Weber, and in the mesenteric and lymphatic glands, and from these sources sup- plied to the blood. In this fluid F's- isi. they undergo a transformation into ^ } the completely formed blood-cor- @) puscles, by the removal of the "^^^ granules, the increased develop- ment of the nucleus, and the o,-^ '% ''''(^~'^ •■ ."■^"■•'^ generation of colouring matter, | ® 0?^^ excepting in the mammiferOUS Granules, granuIe-ceUs, and red Wood-corpus- f»nvnii«plp whntjp nltimitp r»liino-P clcsfrom the embryo chick at the twentieth day of COipUSCie, WnObe UlUmate Cnange jn^uijation. « a, Granules, some being enveloped qppms to fonsi^t in illP POimilpfp by a faint cell-wall, and granule-cells with coarse Secmts iO COllblbt in IUL COinpieie p^j,„ules. b b, red blood-corpuscles. Mag. 200 absorption of the nucleus, accord- ing to Kcilliker, or the removal of the wall of the cell, according to AVharton Jones. Now as there can be no doubt that in the adult the lymphatic and chyliferous systems, afford a source for the constant develop- ment of particles identical with the colourless corpuscles, and as such corpuscles are always found in considerable proportion in the blood (being more numerous under circumstances unfavourable to normal changes, as in inflammations), it seems very reasonable to infer that similar transformations of colourless into coloured particles are going Fig. 182. Fig. 183. • tr. a. Granules of which the cell- Nucleated cells, (a), red corpuscles, (4), and wall is not visible, b. Granule- granules from the chick on the 20th day of cells and red corpuscles. Mag, incubation. Mag. 200 diara. 200 diam. on in the adult as in the embryo, and that the lymphatic and lacteal systems must be at least one, and that a fertile source, from which led corpuscles are being continually supplied to the blood. If, however, we reject this view of the relation of the colourless to the coloured corpuscles, then we must regard them as inde- pendent particles, each having its special function, and it devolves ujjon the advocates of this view to suggest the ofiice, and to explain the mode of origin and decay of each.