CHORION. 613 CHAP. XLIII.] Fig. 287. The structures, therefore, which intervene which the maternal capillary vessels are spread out; while the vascular loops of the human foetus, as was shown by Professor Weber, dip into the dilated vessels of the mother, which become large venous sinuses, and are thus completely bathed on all sides by the mother's blood. The villi increase very much in number and complexity in that part of the chorion which is to become the placenta; while on other parts of the surface they retain the same characters as at a very early stage. Each villus contains a vascular loop, which is directly continuous with the umbilical vessels of the foetus; and the whole of the blood of the foetus is made to pass through the vessels in the tufts by the forces of the foetal circulation. The cells of which the villi were entirely composed, at a very early period diminish in number; but still several remain towards the apex. During this time, the soft membrana decidua has been increas- ing in thickness and vascularity. Its capillary vessels become enormously increased in diameter, and ultimately form small pouches or sinuses containing blood. The foetal tufts come into close relation with the walls of these sinuses, but are still separated by a thin layer of the cellular decidua, and project into their inte- rior, being of course invested with the wall of the sinus, just as the viscera are covered with peritoneum. Such is the relation of the blood-vessels of the foetal placenta to those of the mother, according to the observations of Dr. J. Reid, Weber, and Goodsir. between the blood of the foetus and that of the mother, are the following: the walls of the foetal capillaries; the cells at the extremity of the foetal tufts; the deli- cate investing membrane covering these; a thin stratum of fluid separating the maternal and foetal portions of the pla- centa, and containing not only the ma- terials for absorption but any substances to be removed from the foetal blood; the cells of the membrana decidua; and, lastly, the wall of the venous sinus, into which the foetal tuft projects. m-L 11 I^ n p it •^^ Kxtremity of n villus, sliowinE cn- ine cells upon the surface OI the villus Pillary vessels. After Weber. form little groups, and appear to radiate, as it were, from the centre of each collection. This central point. Professor Goodsir regards in the light of a germinal spot or nutritive centre, which