CHAP, xxvn.] CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE BLOOD. 307 advanced periods of life. lu mammalian embryos they are de- scribed " as of large size, spherical or oval, pellucid and colourless, nucleated and full of minute granules." Mr. Paget, whose description we follow, confirms the observation made by Kolliker, Fahrner, and others, of the occasional occurrence of " a process of multiplication by hi-partition of the nucleus, each of which, either by appropriating half the cell, or by developing a cell around itself, becomes the central nucleus of a new cell differing from the parent cell from which it escapes, in little except in being smaller and more generally circular." * Of the manner in which the blood-corpuscles decay we really know nothing—no more than of the mode of decay of the elements of the tissues. The notion held, for a time, by some physiolo- gists, that the existing particles gave birth to new ones by a gem- miparous or fissiparous generation, has no foundation in careful I observation. And it is most probable that, as Mr. Paget remarks, " new corpuscles never appear to be produced from the germs of ! old ones: when a corpuscle is past its perfection, it degenerates and probably liquefies." " The changes of such degeneration," adds this excellent observer, " have not been clearly seen in mamma- : lian corpuscles; but they are probably nearly similar to what occur in those of fish and reptiles : in which the old and degenerate corpuscles appear perfectly white and pellucid (not shaded or gra- nular, like the lymph-corpuscles), smaller than they were, and in some instances, cracked, or as if eroded. The nuclei appear to degenerate with the cells, but, because of their darker and harder outlines, remain longer distinct, and often look like free nuclei, unless the dim cell-wall round them be carefully searched for. But in this process, no germ for a new corpuscle issues from the transient cell. Every new corpuscle forms itself in and from the materials of the lymph and chyle, and is perfected in the ' blood, and the blood is maintained by constant repetitions of this process."-f- j Kolliker has lately put forward the remarkable opinion that the spleen is the seat of a process of destruction or dissolution of the blood-corpuscles. We shall examine this view farther on, when we come to describe the structure of the spleen,:}: IV. The Chemical Analysis of the Blood.—The blood is a fluid of the greatest complexity, as must be expected, if we regard it as containing the material for the nutrition of all the tissues, as * Kirkcs' Hand-Book of Physiology, p. 65, fig. 3. t Loc. cit. p. 70. X Art. Spleen, Cyclop. Anat. anJ Piiys.