DIGESTION. [chap. XXIV. 206 Lehmann attributes the acidity of the gastric fluid to both free hydrochloric and lactic acids. He obtained the former from the stomach of a diabetic patient, to whom he had administered an ipecacuanha emetic ; and the latter from the stomach of a cat, from which he was able to procure distinct crystals of lactate of zinc. In subsequent researches Lehmann confirmed this conclusion respecting the nature of the acid of the gastric fluid. Liebig lends his sanction to this doctrine, and especially to the view put forward by Bernard and Barreswil, that both lactic and phosphoric acids exist in this fluid free, while there is no reason to deny the existence of an acid phosphate likewise. The opinion that free lactic acid exists in the gastric fluid is not new. It was put forward by Chevreul many years ago, and afterwards by Leuret and Lassaigne. In J 823 our distinguished friend. Dr. Grraves, of Dublin, published analyses of the fluid of the stomach from two patients, in which he found free lactic acid in abundance. Notwithstanding what has been done on this subject it must be con- fessed that the full truth has scarcely yet been arrived at. We have yet to learn whether the constitution of the gastric juice is constant—whether the same acids or acidifying agents are present in all animals, and under all conditions of feeding and food ; and we have also to ascertain whether any and what changes may be produced by disease in the chemical characters of the gastric fluid. The inquiry, taken up on a large scale among the loAver animals, and extended to man, in health and disease, would, no doubt, yield most valuable and interesting results. The digestive principle does not seem to be secreted in equal quantity or of equal power at all parts of the stomach. Meat and albumen, digested with mucous membrane from the cardia, is by no means so much acted upon as if digested with mucous membrane from the pylorus or from the central part of the stomach. In the pig there is a large patch of the membrane of a reddish hue, and of considerable thickness, forming that portion of the mucous membrane which corresponds to the middle of the great curvature of the stomach ; this, we find, exercises a more energetic action upon meat or albumen than any other part. It is highly interesting to notice that the mucus which accumu- lates upon the surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach has a digesting power corresponding to that of the portion of mucous membrane from which it has been taken. This we have deter- mined by our own experiments. Nature of the digesting poicer of the Gastric Havnig