388 RESPIRATION. [chap. xxjx. substance more or less distinctly mapped out by areolar tissue and termed lobules. Goats of the Bronchia.—All these become gradually thinner as they approach the air-cells. The cartilaginous pieces, which arc irregular in shape and position in the lobal bronchia, become reduced to mere flakes, and finally cease in those of one-sixth or one-tenth of an inch in diameter (fig. 204). The last are seen mostly where Fig. 203. branchings occur. The muscular fibres of the trachea are continued down even to the terminal "i^-^ bronchia, but instead of filling up only the gap in the cartilaginous framework, they form a uniform layer encircling the canal, but exces- sively thin. The fibres are here arranged in anastomosing bundles (fig. 203). Within the muscular layer is that of the longitudinal elastic fibres, here disposed as an even layer, and re- presenting the submucous areolar tissue. The Small bronchial tube laid •!• . i • i r ^ ^ open, showing the transverse Ciliated cpitlielium aiid tlic bascmeiit membrane plcitiform arrangement of the n ,\ ,• i i i i • muscular layer, and its dis- 01 tllC mUCOUS tlSSUC DOth dcSCCUd lllto the Cosition at the orifice of a -ii i- /\ i ranch. From a man ffit. terminal brouctiia. Uii the exterior 01 the fifty. Magnified 2 diam. , . . i ■ • • . bronchia is some areolar tissue separating them from the neighbouring masses of air-cells, and associated with the arteries, veins, lymphatics and nerves belonging to the bronchial wall. The bronchial arteries are usually two, coming from the aorta, but irregular. They supply the coats of the bronchia, and have corresponding veins. Their capillaries anastomose with those of the pulmonary artery where the terminal bronchia become lobular passages. The distribution and actions of the pulmonary nerves have been already discussed (pp. 120, 124-7). Ultimate Pulmonary Tissue.—-Lobules.—In some jjarts of the exterior of the lungs, particularly near the borders, and in some animals throughout, may be noticed a sort of mapping out of the pulmonary substance into small polyhedral masses separated by areolar tissue, and having a very irregular shape. These are the lobules of the lungs. They can only be made out in certain situ- ations, even by dissection, for it does not appear that the whole human lung is thus subdivided by areolar septa. Nevertheless, it seems certain that each terminal twig of the bronchus is in relation with only its own proper set of air-cells, and that such sets of cells do not communicate except through the medium of the bronchia. In this sense lobules exist everywhere, even when not isolated by areolar tissue, and in this sense we shall use the term, as con-