CHAP. XVTI.] PHENOMENA OF VISION. 45 ■ of the lens. It then emerges from the lens, and, in thus passing from a dense to a rare medium, it is hent from the perpendicular to the point of emergence. It can thus be shown that the com- ponent rays of a pencil, diverging from a point, will he bent towards the central ray of the pencil, or that which falls perpen- dicular to the convex surface, and be brought to a focus in the line of the central ray. And the several pencils of rays, proceeding from different points of an object, cross one another in traversing the lens, so that the foci to which they are respectively brought beyond the lens are in positions the reverse of those from which they set out, and the entire image is a reverse of the object. perpendicular to the point of emergence. The effect of this is to cause a conver- gence of all the emerging rays towards the central ray; at this point of con- vergence, or focus, an image of the luminous point from which the rays originally passed is formed. 8. This point of convergence, or focus, varies as to its distance from the surface of emergence, according to the refracting power of the lens, the amount of cm-vature of its surfaces, and the distance of the luminous body. Its distance constitutes the focal length or distance of a lens. 9. In consequence of the unequal refraction of rays passing through a convex lens, the focus of convergence of the central rays is more distant from the surface of the lens than that of the peripheral rays. Hence the image formed at the focus of the lens is in some degree indistinct at its edges. The imperfection is due to what is technically called sphei'ical aberration; and it can be counteracted only by inter- cepting the passage of the circumferential rays, or by employing such a combination of lenses as will establish a just proportion between the refraction of the central and peripheral rays. This aberration is liable to occur in all forms of lenses, whetlier convex or concave. 10. White light is compound, and may be analysed by passing a beam of sun- light through a prism. The solar spectrum thus formed on a surface opposite tlie prism is composed of bands of different colours insensibly passing into each other, which are, beginning from above, violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. Of these different coloured rays, that which is most bent from the original direction of the solar beam is the violet, and the red is the least refracted. It is owing, there- fore, to this unequal refrangibility of the different kinds of simple light that we are enabled to decompose white light by its transmission through a prism. 11. If the different coloured rays which have emerged from the prism be allow- ed to traverse a second similar prism, held in a reversed position, they will on their emergence unite to form white light again. 12. Tlie different refi-angibility of the rays of simple light is another source of indistinctness in images formed by the transmission of light through lenses with curved surfaces. The images are fringed by prismatic colours. It is called tech- nically chromatic aberration; and may be corrected by means analogous to those adopted for correcting spherical aberration. It is obviously of great importance in all optical instruments for aiding or increasing the powers of vision that they should as much as possible be free from these sources of imperfection.