DEVELOPMENT. [chap. xli. This increases gradually, until it is about a line in diameter. It is called the area pellucida. The darker and more granular part, ex- ternal to the area pellucida, is the area germinitiva, in which may be observed a darker portion, which is the futui-e area vascuhsa, so called, because vessels are first observed in this situation. The germinal membrane is composed entirely of cells, which result from the original process of cleavage (page 574). These cells increase at its margin; and in this way the germinal membrane gradually extends itself so as to invest the entire yolk. Serous and Mucous Lamince.—At an early period, the germinal membrane manifests a tendency to split into two layers. These are termed lamirue. The upper one, which, in its extent, corre- sponds to the area pellucida, is the serom lamina. The lower one, which is more extensive, and which extends beyond the vascular area, is called the mucous lamina. Eeichert, however, in his beautiful investigations upon the deve- lopment of the chick, has described the formation of tlie layers from which the different organs are evolved in a somewhat differ- ent manner. The Investing Membrane," and Membrana Intermedia," of Ret- chert.—The most superficial layer of cells of which the germinal membrane is composed, which is usually known as the " serous layer," has been termed by Eeichert the investing membrane. It extends, at its circumference, between the yolk and the vitellary membrane by the apposition of new cells of the yolk to its peri- phery, and is formed independently of the vascular system. The rudiments of the nervous system are first seen in the form of a line (primitive streak) immediately beneath the investing mem- brane, and are developed from a stratum of cells which has sepa- rated itself from the surface of the yolk. Immediately beneath this is another layer of cells which has been termed the mucous layer of the germinal membrane, also the vascular layer, but Eei- chert has well described it under the term membrana intermedia. It is beneath the central organs of the nervous system, and in contact with the chorda dorsalis Lying between the nervous centres on the one hand, and the mucous membrane on the other; and ex- tending beyond the limits of the area pellucida, the membrana inter- media gives origin to the vertebral, cutaneous, and vascular systems, and to the digestive system with the exception of its mucous mem- brane. In the development of the higher vertebrate animals, according to Dr. Eeichert, the membrana intermedia performs a most important part.