INVERTEBRATA- CHAP. XXXVI.] 531 tiou until a greater number of facts relating to these wonderful processes should be discovered, rather than adopt a view which future research may show to be erroneous. Sexual Orffans—The generative organs are of two kinds, the male and the female organs, the one secreting the " sperm cell," and the other the " germ cell." The generative apparatus consists of two parts : a formative organ, in which the elements are pro- duced, and which is essential; and an efferent duct, by which the products of secretion are carried off. The male and female organs may exist in one individual or in separate individuals. The first condition is termed unisexual, and the second bisexual generation. In some unisexual or hermaphrodite animals, self-impregnation takes place, as is the case in the common tape-worm (Taenia solium); while, in other instances, concourse is necessary in order that the ova should be exposed to the action of the spermatic fluid; this is the case with many of the mollusca, as the common snail, etc. In these instances, each hermaphrodite animal impregnates its neighbour. Besides the secretion of the formative organ, other secretions are frequently poured into the efferent duct. The duct undergoes great modifications in different parts of its course in various ani- mals, according to the particular office it has to fulfil. We shall now consider some of the most important characters which the sexual organs exhibit in the different classes of animals. Invertebrata. The Infusoria multiply by fission, and rarely by gemmation. No sexual organs have yet been discovered in them, and ova are not met with in this lowest class of the animal series. Fission may occur in the longitudinal direction, as in the Vorticella: or transversely, as in Stentor and some others ; or in both directions, as in Bur- sar ia, Paramcecium, and others. The Vorticelloe are also propagated by the formation of buds. When division is about to take place, the cell within the body, known as the nucleus, is seen to divide into two ; each half containing, therefore, a newly-formed nucleus. The Polyps multiply by gemmation and by the formation of ova, very rarely by fission. In gemmation, the young polyp may be ultimately set free, as in the Hydra ; or it may remain attached to the stem or common body, or polypidon, as in the majority of the members of this class. Some polyjis are hermaphrodite, while in many the sexes are distinct. At the time when the common hydra is about to propagate by ova, the male and female organs are both developed as excrescences upon the outer surface of the body. Others, again, are sexless, and give rise to the development of medusa-buds, or split up into discs, as already described in p. 528.