[CHAI'. XVII. INNERVATION. 52 can naturally affect it; and the other parts, endowed with the same kind of excitability, can, in the natural state, be stimulated only in a secondary manner, as though by induction through the retina. It is certain that the integrity of these other parts is essential to vision, and it may therefore be concluded that during vision they are all, immediately or mediately, in a state of excitation. The retina is not affected sufficiently for the purposes of vision by a very faint light; and on the other hand, a very strong light, especially if long applied, will produce effects analogous to those resulting from an inordinate stimulus to other organs : the blood- vessels of the retina will become unduly injected, its nutrition dis- ordered, and even its texture destroyed. But the retina exhibits a considerable power of accommodation to different amounts of light, and thereby the utility of the organ is much enhanced, as well as its safety provided for. After a short stay in the dark, objects disclose themselves, which at first were imperceptible ; and, on the other hand, a light which was at first too bright, becomes agreeable by use. This adaptability is quite independent of the iris, and has its analogue in the case of every nerve of sense. The iris, however, by its contractile power, is a most important agent in protecting the retina fi-om the effects of sudden transitions from dark to light; and in thus co-operating for the maintenance of its most essential quality, excitability, the iris is seconded by the eyelids and brows. The ii-is contracts under a strong light, by virtue of the stimulus imparted to the retina; for if this or the optic nerve be destroyed or paralysed, as in amaurosis, the iris no longer contx'acts. It is interesting, however, to notice that the iris of the unsound eye will often contract in company with its fellow, when the opposite sound retina is stimulated. The motion is therefore evidently caused by a reflexion of the stimulus from the optic nerve, through the nervous centre along the inferior branch of the third pair to the iris, and the consensual action of the two sides is effect- ed in the nervous centre. Mechanical irritation of the ciliary nerves, or third pair, occasions contraction of the pupil on the same side. The orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii likewise contract under a powerful glare, in obedience to a stimulus reflected through the optic nerve, and quite independently of the will. This is well exemplified in children affected with strumous ophthalmia, in whom the excitability of the retina is highly ex- alted. The pigmentum nigrum is a permanent shield to the retina, absorbing the light which falls upon it, and remaining the samo