10 [chap. XVI. INNERVATION. be hence deduced for the Hmitation of the sense of taste to those elementary nerve-fibres going to the tongue which are without the white substance of Schwann. If this be so, the looped tubular fibres are confined to the impressions of touch in that organ. We are averse from speculating prematurely on the meaning of anatomical facts, but as some hypothesis will intrude itself, we would venture to hint that this amalgamation of the elements of the peripheral part of the olfactory nervous apparatus in the larger branches, and probably in the most remote distribution, as well as the nucleated character indicative of an essential continuity of tissue with the vesicular matter of the lobe, are in accordance with the oneness of the sensation resulting from simultaneous impressions on different parts of this organ of sense, and seem to show that it would be most correct to speak of the first pair of nerves, as a portion of the nervous centre put forward beyond the cranium, in order that it may there receive, as at first hand, the impressions of which the mind is to become cognizant. No true tubular fibres belong to the olfactory nervous apparatus, except those commissural ones passing between the bulb and certain portions of the cerebrum. The branches of the fifth pair given to the nose (figs. 106 and 108), are derived from its ophthalmic and superior maxillary di- visions. The nasal twig of the former, crossing the orbit, passes over the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the nose, in close contact with a portion of the olfactory nerve, and most probably forms some anasto- mosis with it. Its subsequent course is downwards, subdivid- ing to supply the mucous mem- brane and skin in the neigh- bourhood of the anterior ori- fices. The pungent sensation preceding sneezing seems to be an alfection of this twig, and Fig. 108. Nerves of the septum of the Nose -.—a. Olfactory bulb resting on the cribriform plate, below which its branches may be traced on the septum about halhvay , n f , aCCOm- down. Behind, the naso-palatine nerve from Meckel's lUB nOW Oi iedlij LUctl, cti.i.uui ^'^Z^^^^^^v^^^^'^- Panies that act is accounted for Sarbrlnat ^7 the common source of this of the Eustachian tube.—From Arnold one half diam. and of the lachrymal nerve. The nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion enter the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, or by pores between this and the pos-