INNERVATION. [chap. XVII. 26 The vnrieties of colour in the eyes of different animals and indi- viduals depend almost solely on the colour of the front of the iris, which itself resides chiefly in pigment-cells, situated in its substance rather than as a layer on its anterior surface. These cells are most irregular in shape and size, and lie in the interstices of the more essential tissues, which they much obscure. The iris is consequently best examined in albino specimens. The iris is undoubtedly contractile, and the anatomical charac- ters of its principal tissue so nearly resemble those of unstriped muscle, that it 'may be considered as a variety of that tissue. Its fibres are loaded with nuclei which are rather rounder than those of uustriped muscle, and more loosely attached to the contractile ma- terial. The principal direction taken by the fibres is towards the pupil, although they are more or less meandering and interlacing in this course. Arrived near the pupil, they appear to join, and form indistinct arches. In many instances it is easy to detect a set of circular fibres, either gathered into a principal bundle near the pupil or more diffused, but always lying in front of the others. These seem to answer to the circular fibres of the bird's iris, which are of the striped variety, and occupy the front of the membrane. There may also be usually distinguished in the very thin margin of the pupil an arrangement of fibres more circular than radiating. The iris is so vascular that some anatomists have considered it erectile, and have erroneously ascribed its movements to this pro- perty. But its vessels are slender and delicate, and resemble those of the unstriped muscle. They are derived chiefly from the two long ciliary arteries, which on approaching it bifurcate, and form a circle around it, whence pass inwards a great number of minute branches, which form loops near the pupillary margin. On the anterior surface near the pupil a vascular circle marks tlie line from which in the foetus the membrana pupillaris stretched across in front of the pupil. This membrane at that early period divides the anterior from the posterior chamber, and receives from several parts of the circular vessel last mentioned, small branches which approach the centre, and then return in arches,, after inoscu- lating sparingly across the central point. The membrana pupillaris is almost absorbed at birth. The grayish structure coating the choroid for about an eighth of an inch behind the cornea, presents at its anterior edge a more white and opaque circle, the ciliary ligament, which seems to be chiefly of a fibrous character, and to connect the border of the