[chap. XXIV. DIGESTION. 212 stomach, which prevents or opposes the passage of the gastric con- .teuts in that direction. Probably the whole of the pyloric third of the stomach is strongly contracted under the circumstances which ordinarily give rise to vomiting; and the contents of the viscus having been accumulated in its cardiac two-thirds, are thus brought into more immediate and direct communication with the cesophagus. The pylorus being closed against them, the stomach contents are forced through the cesophagus, not only by the muscular contraction of the stomach itself, but also by that of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm.* It is probable that where a very complete obstruction exists at or near the pylorus, as in cases of hernia and other mechanical obstacles, the act of vomiting partakes much of the nature of an overflow, and requires no more than the action of the muscular coat of the stomach itself. The slight effort which accompanies the discharge of the stomach's contents in cases of this description, denotes this. But when vomiting is caused by an emetic, or is the result of sea- sickness, or of nervous irritation, as in stimulation of the fauces, or in brain disease, an active, and almost convulsive, contraction of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles accompanies it, and, no doubt, constitutes the principal expelling force. These muscles by their simultaneous forcible contraction form two plane surfaces, one passing downwards and backwards, the other nearly vertically downwards, which are approximated very closely to each other, and compressing the stomach between them, cause the forcible ejection of its contents in that direction, which offers least or no resistance, namely, through the cesophagus. The act of vomiting is ushered in by a deep inspiration, during which the diaphragm is firmly contracted. Just at this moment the abdominal muscles contract forcibly and almost convulsively. Thus an effort at expiration, in which, doubtless, other muscles take part, besides those of the abdominal walls, quickly succeeds the act of inspiration. But the diaphragm does not become relaxed as in ordinary expiratory efforts, because the air is only very par- tially and slowly expelled. For, at the same time that the ab- dominal muscles and the diaphragm are thrown into contraction, those of the glottis are exerted to a like convulsive action, and maintain a partially closed state of the glottis which resists the ex- * The power of returning portions of the food at will (rumination), which some men have acquired, is effected by a strong voluntary contraction of the pyloric muscle, and by expulsive efforts operating directly on the cardia ])ortion of the stomach, which can thus expel its contents only in the upward direction.