DIGESTION. [chap. XXV. 218 the small intestine to the spine is the mesentery, and each portion of the large intestine is connected to the corresponding region of the ahdominal wall by a process of peritoneum, which is designated by prefixing the word meso {fjbZGoq medius) to the name of the parti- cular portion of intestine : thus mesoccecum is the process which con- nects the ccecum to the iliac fossa; mesocolon, right, transverse, left, is that which belongs respectively to the three portions of the colon; and the mesorectum connects the rectum to the concavity of the sacrum. Attached to the colon are small processes of peritoneum, con- taining fat, and called appendices epiploic^, from their resemblance to the epiploon, or great omentum, which descends from the great curvature of the stomach and from the transverse colon, like a cur- tain, in front of the small intestine. The Intestinal Canal in Vertebrata.—The intestinal canal is disposed in the four vertebrate classes much on the same plan as in the human subject:— In Fishes the intestinal canal exhibits for the most part a very simple conform- ation. In many fishes it passes quite straight or very nearly so, through the body : when it does exhibit convolutions they are few and short, and rarely to any great extent. A pyloric valve is generally present, separating the intestine from the stomach ; immediately succeeding to this valve, the intestine generally experiences a dilatation, whence it gradually contracts to its terminal portion, which again becomes dilated. This portion corresponds to the large intestine, and commonly a valvular fold of the mucous membrane is present at its union with the preceding portion ; it terminates in a cloaca common to it with the genital and urinary organs. In some fishes, however, no dilatation is found, nor any external distinction between the stomach and intestine, and the canal from the oesophagus to the anus is of uni- form calibre. Immediately below the pylorus we very commonly find a series of tubular prolongations from the intestine, terminating in blind extremities. These constitute the appendices pt/lorica or pyloric follicles, which most comparative anatomists consider to supply the place of a parenchymatous pancreas. These appendices vary considerably in both number and size. In pleuroncctes Jlesus there are only two very short ones, placed opposite each other at difi^erent sides of the intestine * ; in ammodytes tobianus there is only one ; in Blennius and Gasterosteus there are only two, so small that Wagner compares them to the follicles of the proventriculus of birds ; there are from ten to thirty in many species of Clupea and Sabno, and in the genera Gadus and Scomber (the common mackerel, for example), there are as many as two hundred.t On the other hand, they are entirely absent in many fishes. Again in some they are simple, in others they become subdivided or branched at their blind extremities, and in others still these branches undergo subdivision, and the resemblance to the glandular formation is enhanced by the fact that these branchings are connected by means of cellular membrane and blood-vessels. In Reptiles, the intestinal canal differs from that in fishes chiefly in having • Figured in Carus's Anat. Comp. pi. ix. fig. 20. t R, Wagner, Vergleichend. Anatom.