GENERATION. 578 [chap. XL. braue is due. In the mucous membraue of the uterus of the bitch, Dr. Sharpey has described two distinct kinds of glands, one simple and the other compound. The openings of both these forms of glands may be readily seen upon the sui-face of the mucous mem- brane ; and they soon increase in dimensions, in order to receive the fcEtal processes of the chorion, which are covered with epithelium, similar to that lining the follicle. Immediately before the large compound glands open upon the surface. Dr. Sharpey describes their tube as forming a dilatation or cell, into which a foetal process of the chorion is received. At the bottom of this cell the duct may be seen; and as it passes to- wards the deep sm'face, it is observed to form the branched compound gland. At parturition, the vessels of course come away with the decidual membrane, as well as the cells just referred to, but the ducts and branching terminations of the glands remain behind. From this ar- rangement it follows that, in the bitch, the secretion elaborated from the system Fig. 273. 11 b. Uterine glands of the bitch. Twelve n .-i lI r. J.^ ly xi diamctera. 1. Simple glands. 2. Com- Ol tllC mothCr by thC agCUCy 01 thcSC pound glands. After Dr. Sharpey. glands is brOUght iuto cloSC fiontact with the vessels of the foetus, and afterwards absorbed by them. Fig. 274. In the human decidua, the openings of the glands may be distinctly seen, and their epithehal lining readily traced. The tubes can be followed through the membrane; in fact, from numerous observa- tions, there can be no doubt that, like the decidual membraue in the bitch, the human decidua consists really of the altered mucous membrane of the uterus. Leydig has seen ciliary motion in the uterine glands of the sow. Next we have to consider how it is, that the ovum becomes covered with the decidual mem- brane. Dr. W. Hunter looked upon the decidua Magnified uvfirf ma- a closcd sac, separating the uterine cavity from epithelial ^ linh^l "^'2' ^hc Openings of the Fallopian tubes. When the Tube from which the ovum desccndcd, he supposed that it pushed the epithelium has escaped. ' J^i t i 1 After Dr. Sharpey. dccidua, as it wcrc, bcforc it, and thus became covered, in the same manner that the ^dscera are invested with pe- ritoneum ; and hence, Dr. Hunter termed that portion of decidua covering the ovum, decidua reflexa, while that lining the uterus was 0 - Tliin section of human decidua soon after im- pregnation had taken place, showing glands