381 NERVOUS TISSUE. rilema, yet others of them, which are of long continuance, and are attended by other peculiarities, are not perhaps to be ascribed to this cause. It is not requisite to suppose that the long continuance of this action, without producing suppuration or other changes, is an argument against its inflammatory character. The inflamma- tion may be, like those in fibrous tissue, of long continuance, with- out inducing any other effect save that of thickening and stiffness by effusion of lymph. ” One of the most painful and least managable forms of nerve-ach is that which is produced by previous disease either of a bone or its periosteal covering. Chronic periosteal inflammation, for instance, attacks the bones of the face, and affects some one of the foramina, through which a nervous chord emerges. The periosteum becomes thickened as the periosteal disease proceeds; the bone itself is af- fected, and exostosis is formed. This tumour compresses the nerve and its covering, which are also perhaps inflamed; and if the newly formed bone is sharp, rough, or spicular, by lacerating and stretch- ing the nerve, it causes to the patient acute pain and much suffering. Neuritis should be distinguished from Neurilemmia, though often they are associated and consequently cannot be distinguished. Jo- seph Frank, nevertheless, thinks that the constancy of the pain in the former, and its occasional remission and periodical recurrence in the latter, may serve to distinguish the two affections. An idea has been advanced by Reil, that general inflammation of the neurilema takes place in typhus fever, and is the pathologi- cal cause of that disease.* That the vessels of this tissue may be gorged, and tbeir blood poisoned and rendered hurtful, in common with those of every other, is exceedingly probable, and may be often the case. But it is manifest that this is one only of many simulta- neous effects; and it is further evident, that neither observation nor anatomical inspection can justify the conclusion, that inflammation of the neurilema is the pathological cause of fever. 2. Neurilemmia Chronica. Inflammation of nervous tissue may terminate, 1st, in resolution; 2d, in effusion of lymph; 3d, in ul- ceration ; or, 4th, it may induce a low chronic action, accompanied with enlargement of the nerve, or morbid growth by deposition of new matter. 1 hese phenomena are most 'distinctly seen in the changes which follow wounds of nerves. In this case effusion of lymph is common, and is not unfrequently succeeded either by lo- * Fieberlehre, Band. IV. p. 56.