472 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. This view errs only in placing the disease in the marrow, which, as an inorganic secretion, is incapable of orgasm, healthy or mor- bid. The true agent of the process is the vascular medullary web, especially of the epiphysis, of such bones as the vertebrae, the car- pal and tarsal bones, and the phalanges. The cancellated arrange- ment of the osseous matter and of its medullary web in these bones explains the progress and phenomena of the disorder. Palletta adopts the distinctions of Trioen; and admits, in true spina ventosa, expansion of the bony walls. Spina mitior he allows to be the same as nekrosis. Though various modern surgeons have directed their attention to this subject, it is still surrounded with confusion and uncertainty. Some allow that the disease does not affect the epiphyses, but the shafts of the bones, and admit, however, the expanding process. Dupuytren, who was aware of the confusion in the application of the term, has not, however, done much to remove it. From the few cases which he records under this head, it appears that the dis- ease affects the head of the humerus by enlargement and expansion of the osseous walls, and the phalanges and metacarpal bones in the same manner. lie admits that the disease is seated in the ca- vity of the bone; that in certain cases there is a deposit of cancer- ous matter which distends the bone; that it is an affection of the medullary membrane ; and that there is secreted a new substance, fungous, gelatiniform, gray, yellow, lardaceous, sometimes gypse- ous and serous.* It is clear, from the account now given, that this eminent sur- geon had formed on the intimate nature of this disease no distinct or precise ideas ; and he has left the subject in as great confusion as when he found it. The subject is certainly unsettled from the contradictory and inaccurate manner in which the term has been employed. From the facts here adduced, the following conclusions may be established. lsA It appears that the early writers on spina ventosa had no distinct or precise notions on its characters and nature, and that most of them, like Vigo, de Argellata, Pandolphinus, and Severinus, regarded as spina ventosa, caries of the articular ends of bones, chiefly dependent on chronic inflammation of the medullary mem- brane. * Lecons 0rales de Clinique Chirurgicale. Tome Deuxieme, Article XII. p. 268 275. Paris, 1839.