GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 840 lie applies the name of Pancreatitis chronica, recovery took place in like manner, under the use of foot-baths of mineral acid, (appa- rently the hydrochloric,) which were followed after a short time by critical diarrhoea.* Another circumstance, showing that these must have been in- stances of chronic congestion or inflammation, is that most of them took place in persons comparatively young. The patient of Dr Haygarth was middle-aged. In one of the fatal cases of Dr Crampton, the age was 35. In another favourable case it was 32. In Dr Landsberg’s first case the age was 42, in the second 30, in the third 22. The effects of this change of structure are of two kinds; one order in the adjoining organs ; another in the function of digestion and the general health. Those in the contiguous organs are anatomico-pathological, and have been in some degree referred to already. The most common are adhesions with the duodenum, the right kidney, the jejunum, and in some instances with the gall-ducts and gall-bladder. Next to these come compression of the gall-ducts, and usually jaundice. The aorta may be compressed; but the vena cava and vena por- ta; are most frequently so. The result is ascites. The duodenum, however, is the organ that suffers most in all this mischief. Its calibre is contracted; the inner surface is excited and injected ; and its first curvature is so much obstructed, that a sense of painful distension, flatulence, and acid eructations are common and almost constant results. There seems no doubt that this induration may proceed to ulce- ration ; and in this way ulceration usually takes place at the head of the gland, and finds its way into the duodenum. Though in strict pathological language this ulceration is not properly malig- nant, yet to all practical purposes it is sufficiently so to be regarded incurable. It almost never heals when it has once begun. It pro- ceeds destroying the gland, very much like chronic ulceration of the stomach. The havoc then found after death has made most of the cases be denominated scirrhus of the pancreas. The effects on the digestive function are very serious. It is * Einige Bemcrkungen iiber Krankheiten dcs untern Magenmundes und der Baucli- speicheldriise. Von Dr Landsberg pract. Arzte zti Munsterberg in Schlesien. C. W. Hut eland's Journal der Rractischen Heilkunde. Fortgesetzte von Dr E. Osiuin. 1840. Siebenter Stuck Juli, (xci. Bud.)