STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL GLANDS—MALPIGHIAN BODIES. 791 culce, and that this adheres at one point only. When these glome- ruli or spherical balls of capillaries are extracted, there are left smooth hollow hemispheres, through the wall of which blood-vessels adjacent appear. This vesicula forms the capsule of the Malpighian bodies. The diameter of a Malpighian body, at an average, is about 7o7oo °f one Paris inch. The blood-vessels vary in diameter from roVoo to jo5q%o of one Paris inch. Consequently, the former are from thirteen to eighteen times larger than the latter. Huschke allows that the Malpighian bodies are filled from the arteries, and are attached to these vessels; in short, that they are, as Ruysch maintained, glomeruli of blood-vessels. Upon the whole, the Malpighian bodies may be described as globular or ovoidal vesicles, situate amidst or appended to the mi- nute capillary divisions of the arteries, which are curled round them as tendrils of the vine or hop-plant. When the kidney is macerated in water, the Malpighian bodies may also be separately distinguished, lying in all directions between the serpentine uriniferous ducts, dhere they resemble vesicles, according to Muller ; and, while they are attached to the arteries, there is no communication between them and the urinary ducts.* The accuracy of this last statement is partly controverted by Mr Bowman, who has examined these bodies with much care. He found them to be a rounded mass of minute vessels invested by a cyst of similar appearance to the basement membrane of the tubes. He ascei tained also that the investing capsule is the basement mem- brane of the uriniferous tubes expanded over the tuft of blood-ves- sels. It appears further that the terminal twigs of the artery corre- spond in number with the Malpighian bodies. Arrived at them, the twig perforates the capsule, and dilating suddenly breaks up into two, three, four, or even eight branches, which diverge in all directions like petals from the stalk of a flower, and usually run, *n a more or less tortuous manner, subdividing again once or twice as they advance, over the surface of the ball, they are about to iorm. The vessels resulting from these subdivisions are very small, and consist of one simple, homogeneous, transparent membrane’ iey plunge into its interior at different points, and after further De Glandularum Secementium Structura Penitiori. Commentatio Anatomica. ocripsit Joannes Mueller. Lipsiae, 1830. Folio.