839 INDURATION OF THE PANCREAS. states, that in a case observed by him it was no longer cognizable. In other instances, however, I am satisfied, from what I have my- self seen,* that these bodies are certainly not less distinct than be- fore. The change, of which they are the seat, is effusion of lymph, which becomes coagulated. This effusion takes place both into then interior, and externally between the acini and lobules; and when the exudation becomes consolidated, the whole is converted into a hard, firm cartilage-like mass. In some instances the head or duodenal end of the pancreas is thus indurated and enlarged, and at the same time the left or sple- nic end may be hardened, while the middle portion is comparatively healthy and natural in structure. The duodenum is very generally rough, irregular, and compres- sed; its interior capacity is diminished; and its mucous membrane is vascular. . ^ _lth thls duration of the pancreas, not unfrequently are asso- ciated more or less disease in the duodenum, as chronic ulceration * thmkening, and similar changes in the beginning of the jejunum. The following instance, given by Cruveilhier, from an infant born at full time, shows that the disease may take place in the foetus, ihe pancreas presented a lardaceous appearance, like the structure of a scirrhous mamma, without distinction of glandular grains. The antero-poster 1 or diameter was as great as the vertical diameter. Ihe size of the splenic or left end was as great as that of the right or head The pancreas adhered to the supra-renal capsule and the right kidney. I think it is hardly possible to doubt that the whole of the cases now referred to are instances of chronic inflammation of the pan- u eas. It is quite clear that they cannot in all instances be regard- ed as scirrhus; for several of the cases mentioned are stated to have cen instances of bad health, with symptoms of pancreatic disease case ni, *e1I’atle"‘s covered. Thus Dr Percival gives one '“"f' ‘n ,wl,:ch reco™7 took place under the employ- ment Of local blood-letting, blistering, restrained diet, and the Ze rerlents- lr Compton gives one case, in which recovery was effected under the same measures T nn i i • . ^ c ‘ Of what 1,P r,lfr r „ures- 1)1 Landsberg gives an instance lorein 1 ^create, in which, after about rather sivTuse of mnv '’ Sot under the sucees- tlie foot frith f <UK .mercunal ar,d iodine ointment, and foot-bath of nitro-munatic acid. In other two cases, to which * Two of thc cases given by Dr Bright,