GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 440 netrated by calcareous matter. The flat bones are from the first osseous; and though their margins are soft and flexible, in conse- quence of their recent formation and moist state, they have still a distinct osseous appearance and arrangement, and hear no resem- blance to cartilage. In short, true bone seems never at any period of its growth to be cartilaginous. The period at which ossification may be said to be completed varies doubtless in different individuals. It may be said to be in- dicated by the completion of the medullary canal, by the ossification of the epiphyses, and their perfect union with the osseous cylinder, (diaphysis.) The first circumstance is always indefinite. The two latter, though more fixed, are still liable to great variation. The epiphyses are rarely united before the age of 14 or 15; and they may continue detached till the 20th or 21st year. I preserved the greater part of the skeleton of a man, who was known to be about 28, and in whose bones the epiphyses were imperfectly united, and many had dropped off. In general, however, they begin to unite, or to be knit, as is said, between the 15th and 20th years. Little doubt can be entertained that the main agents of original ossification are the periosteum and the periosteal arteries. The proofs of this inference are manifest. The formation of bone has never been ascribed but to the vessels of two agents,—the perios- teum and the medullary membrane. That the latter cannot be con- cerned in the production of bone in the foetus must be inferred from the fact, thaf at that period it cannot be said to have existence. To the periosteum, therefore, and its vessels must be ascribed the process of foetal ossification. Of this a cumulative proof may be found in the circumstance, that the periosteum adheres more firmly at the ends than the middle of the bones ; and that the pericranium and dura mater, which perform the part of periosteum to the bones of the skull, are visibly concerned in the formation and successive enlargement of these bones. But though the periosteal vessels are the main agents of ossification originally, there is reason to believe that the medullary vessels contribute to its growth and nutrition after it is formed. This may be inferred from the phenomena of fractures, of diseases of the bones, and of those experiments in which the medullary membrane is injured. The periosteum, however, does not act by ossification of its inner layers, as Du Hamel, misled by a false analogy between the growth of trees and bones, laboured to establish. This leads naturally to the examination of the phe-