392 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Dr Short, who in 1720 found in the leg one causing epilepsy, and which he removed by excision.* Camper is, so far as I am aware, the first anatomist, who remarks the occasional occurrence of minute hard tubercles, not larger than a pea, in the cutaneous nerves; where he represents them as giving rise to excruciating darting pains night and day, admitting of no alleviation from external re- medies. Of this kind he met with one in the musculo-cutaneous nerve of a woman at Franequer, and another in the knee of a wo- man at Amsterdam. Both he removed by excision, and found them white internally, of gristly hardness, elastic, and seated with- in the neurilema.f The next notice of this disease is by Dr Risset, who observed it in the form of an irregularly-oval tumour, the size of a filbert, on the outside of the left leg, six inches above the outer ancle, also in a woman of twenty-nine years.$ Soon after it was observed by Mr Pearson in the subcutaneous nerve which accompanies the sa- phsena vein, in the leg of a woman of fifty-one; in the back of the leg, near the tendo Achillis ; and at the bend of the arm, near the median vein,§ in a young married woman. Since this time the dis- ease was fully and accurately described by Mr William Wood of this city; || and occasional cases have been published by other au- thors.H Mr Wood questions the justice of the opinion of Camper, that the tubercle is seated in the nerve-coat, or is a nervous tumour; and thinks that it is a distinct or peculiar species of tumour, situate in the subcutaneous cellular membrane. It may not perhaps be pos- sible to prove that every little subcutaneous tubercle is of this descrip- tion. But the observations of the authors above mentioned, and those of A. Petit,** Tissot, Lassus, Jacopi,tt Monteggia,^ and Alexander, * An Epilepsy from an Uncommon Cause. By Dr Thomas Short, Physician at Sheffield. Medical Essays and Observations, Vol. IV. art. xxvii. p. 416. Edinburgh, 1738. A tumour the size of a pea in the posterior tibial nerve, near the lower end ot gastrdcncmii- Petri Camper Demonstrationum Anatomico-Pathologicarum, Lib. i. Caput 2. § 5? p. 11. Lugduni Bat. Folio Imp. + Memoirs of the Medical Society of London, Vol. III. p. 58. Case of Irritable Tumour. By C. Bisset, M. D. &c. London, 1782. § Medical Facts and Observations, Vol. VI. p. 96. Account, &c. || Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. VIII. p. 283, 429. * Edinburgh Medico-Cln- rurgical Transactions, Vol. III. Edinburgh, 1829. 1 Ibid. Vol. XI. XVII. XVIII. « Essai sur la Medecinc, &c. A Lyon, 1806. ff Prospetto della Scuola di Chirurgia Pralica, Ac. Vol. I. cap. 9. Milano, +■»• Istituz. Chirur. Vol. II. Capo xiv. p. 197. Milano, 1813.