GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 554 represent the shape of the villus as that of a mushroom, consisting of a stalk and a pileus. Some of these discordant statements Hedwig attempts with equal ingenuity and industry to reconcile. The difference in shape he refers to differences in the animals examined; and in one class finds them cylindrical,^.^. in man and the horse;) in another conical, (the dog;) in a third club-shaped, (the pheasant;) and in a fourth pointed or pyramidal, (e. g. the mouse.) The interior structure he also represents as spongy in all the animals which he examined; and invariably also he found at the apex the orifice of the duct, which, after the example of Lieberkuhn, he conceives constitutes the ampullula* These conclusions are not exactly confirmed by the researches of Rudolphi, who examined the villi in man and a considerable number of animals. This anatomist never found the orifice seen by Hedwig, notwithstanding every care taken to perceive it. He maintains that the villi are not alike in all parts of the intestinal canal of the same animal, as represented by Hedwig, but may be cylindrical in one part, club-shaped in another, and acuminated in a third. Admitting their vascular structure, which he thinks may be demonstrated, he regards the ampullular expansion as doubtful, and denies its cellular arrangement.f About the same time Bleuland, who had previously examined the intestinal mucous membrane, after successful injection of its capillaries, undertook to revive the leading circumstances of the de- scription of Lieberkuhn. By examining microscopically well-in- jected portions of intestine, he shows that the villi are composed of a system of very minute arterial and venous capillaries, enclosing a lacteal which constitutes the ampulla, and in the interior of which a certain order of these capillaries terminates. He also revives the statement of the absorbing orifice at the extremity of each villus.\ The rest of the observations of this author pertain rather to the dis- tribution of the minute vessels, and shall be more particularly no- ticed under that head. The observations of Beclard on these bodies are most perspicu- * Disquisitio Ampullularum Lieberkuhnii Physico-Microscopica. Lipsiie, 1797. 4to. -j. Einige Beobaclitungen iiber die Darmzotten von D. Karl A. Rudolphi. in Reil. Archiv. iv. b. 1797, p. 63 and 340. Und Anatomische-Physiologische Abhandlungen, Von Kail Asmund Rudolphi, Mit. Aeht Kupfertafeln. Berlin, 1802. 8vo. III. + janj Bleuland, M. D. &e. Vasculorum, in Intestinorum Tenuium Tunicis, &c. Dcscriptio Iconibus Illustrata. 'l’rajccti ad Rhcnum, 1797.