GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 832 sity, with pains in the abdomen, especially at the navel, frequent fits of violent vomiting, in some instances jaundice, and diminished secretion of urine. Baillie was led by experience to regard in- flammation as not very liable to attack the pancreas. The only inference that can be deduced from these several facts, is, that inflammatory action, if it do take place in the pancreas, does not in all cases evince its presence by well-marked or unequivocal symptoms. Does the inflammatory process, it may be asked, leave distinct effects of its presence ? Of the presence of inflammation in this gland several proofs may be adduced. One is redness of the pancreatic substance with vascularity and more or less softness, generally with effusion of bloody serum in the glandular substance and surrounding cellular tissue. Another is either the effusion of albuminous matter in the neighbourhood, or preternatural adhesion to the adjoining organs. A third effect is suppuration or abscess of the gland, sometimes with, more frequently without, pain and other external symptoms. And a fourth consists in different degrees of induration of the gland, usually with pain in the epigastric region, and occasional vomiting. ยง 1. Redness and vascularity are occasionally observed in tbe pan- creas. But they are most frequently the effect of transudation after death, or some similar pseudo-morbid process. In cases in which they are associated either with effusion of plastic exudation, or purulent matter, or induration or softening, they must be allowed to depend on inflammation. This, however, is not common; chiefly because inflammation of the pancreas is not usually an acute dis- ease, and death does not take place in the early stage of the dis- order. One of the best and least equivocal examples of inflammation of tbe pancreas is given by Mr Lawrence; and as the appearances observed by Mr Lawrence illustrate well the effects of inflamma- tion, it is proper to mention them. The case occurred in a married lady of 21, partly during preg- nancy, and partly after delivery. During the three latter months of pregnancy, the patient suffered unusually from thirst, and drank large quantities of water. She had also suffered much from pain in the epigastric region, particularly over the site of the pancreas. She became pale, anaemic, feeble, and breathless. She made no good recovery after delivery, but presented symptoms of great weakness and exhaustion ; and died exactly five weeks after delivery.