760 GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. In 1788 Schumlansld published his dissertation on the structure of the kidney, and thereby directed attention to the arrangement both of the cortical or vascular part of these glands, and to that of the tubuli Belliniani or excreting ducts. He did not, however, eluci- date much the intimate structure of the organ.* The facts and statements given by Haller were very generally repeated by Soemmering and other anatomists. Bichat alone re- jected many without substituting others in their place, and main- tained that whatever could not be sensibly demonstrated was to be regarded as uncertain and undeserving attention. Various inquirers continued to investigate this department of anatomy, with different degrees of success, during the first third of the 19th century. In 1818 Eysenhardt published his dissertation on the structure of the kidneys, in which, with various errors, he gave correct views of the corpora Malpighiana.\ In 1819 Doel- linger, in a dissertation on secretion, adduced several curious facts regarding the arrangement of arteries in several glands.:}: These were followed by the essays of Rathke and Huschke on the struc- ture of the kidneys, the observations of Weber on the salivary glands, and those of Baer on the liver. The researches of all these inquirers, however, though most valuable, have been in a great degree eclipsed by the elaborate commentary on the glands, published in 1830, by John Muller, first of Bonn and afterwards of Berlin, who has, with great skill and much personal research, elu- cidated the structure of all the glands in a systematic manner, com- bining the researches of all his predecessors. Since the date of the monograph of Muller, various facts of considerable value, chiefly microscopical, have been added by subsequent observers. In the following account I shall study to combine the results ob- tained by all these inquirers. Muller distinguishes all the glands of the animal body into nine orders, in the following manner.— I. Glands of the first and most simple order. 1. Crypts or cells, a. Solitary crypts of the mucous mem- branes. b. Aggregated, agminated, or agglutinated ci)pts, as the glands of Peyer in the intestines. * Schumlansky Dissertatio de Structura Renum. 8vo. Argentorati, 1788. . -|- Carol. Guilelm. Eysenhardt de structura Renum, Observationes microscopicie rum Tab. aen. 4 Maj. Berolini, 1818. + Was ist Absonderung und wie geschieht sie. Wurzburg, 1819. •*-