GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 938 toms of hectic fever. It is further requisite to observe, that this state is liable to alternate with, or terminate in, an acute attack of the disease, in which the purulent secretion is suddenly suspended or stopped, pain in the renal region is induced or augmented, with the other symptoms of renal inflammation, and terminate not un- usually, if not checked, in sopor and fatal coma, with urinous ex- halation from the surface of the body. In those instances in which a calculus remains impacted in the pelvis or ureter, these attacks are several times repeated, until the kidney is very much enlarged, distended, and attenuated by the large quantity of purulent or sero-purulent fluid, which never be- ing allowed to escape, is progressively augmented by the addition of that which is secreted at each new attack. Death seems then to be the united result of the repeated inflammatory attacks, and the lesion inflicted on the structure of the kidney. Of this mode of termination instances are given by Tulpius,* and Job a Meek’- ren,f and a melancholy and remarkable example occurred, in 1821, in the person of a medical practitioner of this city, in whose body the left kidney was found dilated so much, as to contain nearly three pounds of sero-purulent fluid, which had been the product of several attacks of renal inflammation, occasioned by the presence of a small mulberry calculus, weighing only H grain, impacted in the upper end of the ureter, j In such circumstances, there is reason to believe that the dis- eased kidney ceases to secrete urine ; since its texture is so much injured, and its circulation is employed in the maintenance of a morbid secretion; and that the functions of both are performed by the sound one. b. In the second place, ulceration may take place through the pelvis or ureter, and purulent matter escape into the lumbar and pelvic adipo-cellular tissue. Such a termination is necessarily fatal, as it induces a sloughy mortified state of the lumbar and pelvic adipose membrane, the effect of which on the system at large is speedily fatal. Of this mode of termination a good case is given * Nicolai Tulpii Observationes Medicte, 8vo. Amstelod. 1652 and 1672. Lib. ii. cap. 45. . Jobi A Meck’rcn, Chirurgi Amstelodamensis Observationes Medico-Chirurgicfo Amstelodami 1682, cap. xlv. The Memoirs of the Royal Society of Medicine (1780-81 Paris, p. 272); Fourcroy, Medecine Eclairee par les Sciences Physique, ii. p. 253. $ Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xviii. p. 557 and 561.