GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 506 / § 7. Punctuate chronic phlegmonous inflammation.—VII. Cutaneous inflammations ori- ginating in the substance of the corion, or in the sebaceous follicles, sometimes at the bulbs of the hair, and terminating in partial or imperfect suppuration, with formation of scales, crusts, &c. and more or less destruction of the sebaceous folli- cles, the piliparous sacs, or of the corial tissue. Boil, Phjma, Furunculus. Carbuncle, Anthrax ; Carbunculus. Whelk, Acne. Scalp or chin whelk, Sycosis. Soft tubercle, Molluscum. Canker, Lupus, noli me tangere. . White scall, Vitiligo. Yaws, Frambcesia, rubula. Sivvens, Sibbenia. § 8. Punctuate phlegmono-tubercula/r inflammation, chronic.—VIII. Cutaneous inflam- mations, chronic, attended with general affection of the fibro-mucous tissues. Arctoic leprosy, Radesyge, Lombard evil, Pellagra, Scherlievo, Falcadina, Asturian itch or scab, Mai di Rosa, Crim evil, Krimmische krankheit, Arabian leprosy, W art, Lepra Norwegica. Pellagra. Lepra Pedemontana. Lepra Asturiensis. Lepra Taurica. Elephantiasis. Verruca. § 1. Cutaneous inflammations seated in the outer or cuticular sur- face of the corion, and generally spreading along it.—Inflammation of the outer surface of the corion may be diffuse and continuous, as in scarlet fever, diffuse and interrupted, as in common rash (erythema,) nettle-rash, and rose-rash, or diffuse and of determinate figure, as in measles and morhilli. The redness with which superficial cutaneous inflammation is attended varies. Though it disappears on pressure, it returns immediately. In scarlet fever, though its tint is indi- cated by the name, it often has a shade of brown ; in erythema, or simple rash, it is rarely so vivid as in other forms of cutaneous in- flammation ; in rose it has a tinge of yellow. In measles it as- sumes the shape of crescentic or lunular patches. In simple rash it terminates gradually in the sound skin ; but in one variety of this rash, (erythema marginatum,) and in rose, it is marked by a distinctly circumscribed edge, or is said to be marginate. The swelling of superficial cutaneous inflammation is rather a general distension than obvious elevation. When it is obvious to the eye, or felt by the finger, and is at the same time confined to definite red patches, these are named wheals. A familiar instance of this occurs in the effect produced by the bite of several insects, the blow of a whip, or the stinging of nettles. Spontaneously it is seen in the disease named nettle rash. In rose, elevation, extensive and 3