GENERAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 132 A similar application of the same facts has assigned to the veins a mode of origin not unlike. If, therefore, we admit the definition given by Bichat, it follows that the capillary system consists, ls£, of minute arteries communicating with veins; 2d, of excreting ducts; 3c?, of exhalants; and, 4th, of minute arteries or veins con- taining a colourless portion of the blood. It is obvious, however, that it is absurd to say that the system of capillary vessels at once comprehends and gives origin to the excretories and exhalants. In other respects the whole of this theory, for little of it is matter of strict observation, rests on very hypothetical grounds. Of the different kinds of terminations assigned to arteries, and of origins assigned to veins, one only admits of sensible and satisfac- tory demonstration. Arteries, when they have so much diminished as to become capillary, are seen by the microscope, in some instan- ces by the naked eye, to pass directly into corresponding capillary veins, or to end abruptly in some organ or membrane unconnected with any other vessel.* It is likewise certain that the microscope shows every capillary vein to arise from a capillary artery; and if there be any other mode of origin, it has not yet been demonstra- ted or established.! Only one other circumstance requires to be taken into account in this inquiry. This is, that the capillary ar- tery and vein may contain either red or colourless blood; for, ac- cording to the size of the vessels, and the nature of the organs or tissues in which they are distributed, the blood which flows through them will be coloured or colourless. This view of the communi- cation of minute arteries and veins, which is perfectly consistent with the known facts, will afford the only explanation which it is possible to give, of the singular division of the capillary system which Bichat has chosen. This author has considered the capillary system under three ge- neral heads. ls£, In organs in which it contains blood only; for instance, in the muscles, the spleen, some parts of the mucous mem- branes. 2d, In organs in which it contains blood and other fluids; for example, in bone, cellular tissue, serous membrane, part of the fibrous system, the skin, the vascular parities, glands, &c. And, 3d, In organs in which it contains no blood, the instances of which are, tendon, cartilage, ligament, hair, &c. Now, it is of little consequence to say that the tissues of the two last divisions contain other fluids than blood, when we are also told f lb. p. 62. Gordon, p. 56.