LYMPHATIC GLAND OR GANGLION. 221 my observation. It appears that the active symptoms manifest themselves first in the skin and cellular membrane; and it may therefore he thought that the disease belongs properly to these tis- sues. Their affection, nevertheless,- is so far as can he determined, the result of the previous state of the glands, which appear to he directly killed either by the syphilitic poison, or the mercurial ac- tion, and thus to give rise to the violent process of disorganization, which then takes place in the skin and cellular membrane. Enlargement of the mesenteric glands has been supposed by most authors to be the anatomical characters of the disease term- ed mesenteric wasting—( Tabes mesenterica. Tabes glandularis. Wharton, Baglivi, Richard Russell.) Without absolutely deny- ing this, I shall afterwards show, that, in most instances of that dis- ease, the enlargement of the glands is secondary to some morbid state either of the intestinal villous membrane, the muciparous fol- licles, or of some of the intestinal tissues. 4. Enlargement and Induration. (Vascular Sarcoma.) Either after repeated attacks of inflammation, alternating with resolution, or with a slow and indistinct form of the disease, a gland, or a cluster of glands gradually enlarges, and, resisting all means of resolution, becomes unusually hard. This continues, or is liable to slight occasional aggravations, with dull pain in the substance, or in the neighbourhood of the gland. Though such enlargement may be termed strumous, and may have originated in what is termed strumous action, the structure of the gland or glands is so much changed as not to be distinguished from vascular sarcoma. A tumour of this kind, when divided, presents a firm homogeneous substance of a bluish-gray colour, somewhat elastic and compres- sible, traversed with more or fewer vessels which may be injected from the neighbouring arteries, and consisting in its intimate structure of amorphous granular masses united by dense filamen- tous tissue. The great hardness, and the malignant tendency of this growth, have procured for it from most authors the ominous names of scirrhus and cancer. Though correct enough for all practical purposes, these epithets are not justified by the anatomi- cal characters. Sarcomatous enlargement may occur in any of the lymphatic glands. It is frequent in those of the neck, and may often be trac- ed to strumous inflammation, or to the irritation of spoiled teeth. Cruikshank mentions an instance in which the tracheo-bronchial