general and pathological anatomy. 564 clnal tubes and their successive subdivisions, divide into minute branches which penetrate the mucous corion, which here is white dense, and fibrous, and after anastomosing with the capillaries of the pulmonary artery and veins, form a minute delicate net-work on the outer surface of the pulmonary mucous membrane. Ac- cording to Reisseissen, to whom we are indebted for a careful exa- mination of these vessels, a successful injection of them from the bronchial arteries, renders the whole mucous membrane of the bron- chi entirely red to the unassisted eye.* The termination of arteries at the mucous surfaces has at all times occupied the attention of anatomists and physiologists; but it is unfortunately not a matter of sensible demonstration. ’The thin serous or sero-mucous fluid with which they are at all times mois- tened, has led every author almost, and among the rest Haller and Bichat, to infer the existence of arteries with open mouths, or what are termed exhalant vessels. If this be entirely denied, the patho- logist, as well as the physiological enquirer, is deprived of a con- venient source of explaining many vital phenomena. It has been admitted, nevertheless, more on analogical than direct proofs. The injections of Bleuland are the only experiments after those of Kawe Boerhaave, which, so far as I am acquainted, tend to confirm the conclusion.! These experiments, nevertheless, require to be re- peated and extended. That lymphatics are distributed to mucous membranes is a point well established. Cruikshank saw the lymphatics proceeding from the pulmonic mucous membrane loaded with blood in persons and animals dying of hsemoptoe. Their existence in the gastro-enteri- tic mucous membrane has been long established. The mucous surfaces are also freely supplied by nervous twigs and filaments, derived in general from the nerves of automatic life. It is a mistaken view, nevertheless, to ascribe to these filaments the sensibility and other properties of the mucous surfaces. These mucous membranes possess intrinsically certain vital properties in- dependently of the nervous filaments with which they are supplied ; and the principal use of these filaments appears to be to regulate these properties, especially that of secretion. * Franz Daniel Reisseissen, ueber die Bau der Lungen, u. s. w. Berlin, 1822. -)- Experimentum Anatomicum, quo Arteriolarum Lymphaticarum existentia pro- babiliter adstruitur, &c. a Jano Bleuland, M. D. Lug. Bat. 1784. Item j Jani Bleu- land, M. D., &e., Vasculorum Intestinorum tenuium Tunicis subtilioris Anatomes Opera Detegendoium Descriptio Iconibus illustrata. Trajecti, 1797. » Nt